

-THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND, PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fcr
McLaren
Traction Engines.
The Finest Hauling Locos.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent l o.o. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART.
&Ki
[jadleys Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
GUARANTORS.
«/. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
Take it back.
I must have-
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ©
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
JUNKET made from these genome Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and inrigorating for J
tive organs.
HANSENS
J
sd
For INDIGESTION
antt DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Ttys' ' <7ZS/
«yfy
-V v V r f » s
\
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And a* MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN TUBES ARE UNBREAKABLE.
For reliability under all conditions these Weldless Steel Spigot and Faucet Pipes take first
place. Every engineer who has seen them admits their superiority to the cast pipes.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD. - - - - 109 PITT STREET. „
**' v>
WSr*
nr
tSsJ
Malthoid at the Federal Capital.
The MALTHOID used on the first buildings at the Federal Capital is
outcome of years of scientific research and practical experience, and is
the one roofing that is, above all others, waterproof, weatherproof and fire-
retarding, absolutely impervious to climatic changes, and practically everlasting*
_ THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER),
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
t
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
HELIDON SPA WATER
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
o. a. Macdonald, ltd., »xhe Hercules” Refrigerating Machine.
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY . ** 0
The Helidon Spa Water Co*, in its extensive
rational water cure” within reach of all*
■
has
■ }
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 31.—N0. 1606.]
[Thursday, November 24, 1910.
Begistered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, K.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* “Webster’s New International Dictionary of
the English Language,” completely revised in
all departments. Including also a dictionary
of geography and of biography, being especially
full in Australasian terms. Published by G. and
O. Merriam Company, 1910. Copy from E. J.
Forbes, Sydney,
NEW AUSTRALIAN BOOKS .
Quin, T., Freckles, illustrated and decorated by Jack
Sommers, 3s 6d, posted 3s lOd.
Bush Songs of Australia for Young, and Old* by A
E. Rentoul and G. Peterson ; price 2s 6d, p. 2s lOd.
Gum Tree Brownie and the Faerie Folk of the
Never Never, new edition, 3s 6d, posted is.
An Australian Bird Calendar, by E. S. Emerson,
illustrated by N. Lindsay, Is, posted Is 2d.
Some Children’s Songs, by Marion Alsop and D. P.
McCrae, paper 3s 6d, cloth 6s, postage 6d.
The Lady of the Blue Beads, by A. R, Rentonl,
illustrated by I. S. Rentoul, 3s 6d, posted 3s lOd.
ralia’s Song of Empire: Words by Annie R. Rentoui, Music by Georgette Peterson, Is. 6d, p. Is. 9d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
son’s “Eumenthol Jujubes. 9 '
AN IDEAL REMEDY
e.e
5jW)
□ .HUDSON
iHP&iI
SOLD ONI.Y IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug:.
Suited for Old and Young:.
Thb Lancet says: “Proved to be effective baetericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
Sold by All Chemists, or -f /£* , _.
Post Free on Receipt of I/O '« Stamps.
COMPANY, LTD., « york street, Sydney.
The RED PAGE
Words, Words, Words!
The latest edition of Webster’s New In-
ternational Dictionary* has just come to
hand, and with all the additions and im-
provements it is a precious good handful.
On opening this Dreadnought of a diction-
ary the first thing to catch the eye is the
most recent portrait of the author facing the
title-page, and it is astonishing and gratify-
ing to note how little Mr. Webster has aged
since his first issue of 1828. Not a grey
hair among'those luxuriant locks, not a
wrinkle disturbs the serenity of the scholarly
face that is seen intent upon a sheet of paper
held in the hand, printed
in type like this,
and which he, Mr. Webster, easily reads
without spectacles!
Like many other great men, Mr. Webster
seems to be rather careless in the matter of
dress. His clothes are cut after a pattern of
yesteryear, and hang about him anyhow.
Before his next edition appears he ought
really to change his tailor and allow the pre-
sent critic to choose his neckties for him.
In the Preface to this New Edition the
author states that there are 400,000 words in
the English language. There are more than
that. The last time I counted them there
were 400,026, including such useful ones as
“Wowser,” “Smoodger, “ Bonser,” etc.,
which words, by-the-bye, one looks for in
vain in the work under review. Other glar-
ing omissions will be noted with pain by the
habitual user of telephones.
Though Mr. Webster’s literary style is at
times disjointed and discursive, he is never
tedious. Lucid and candid to a fault, he
calls a spade a spade, and describes the same
with such painstaking particularity that not
even the most crass dunderhead could pos-
sibly mistake a spade for a nutcracker or a
hatpin.
Now a word as to the artistic features of
this work. Mr. Webster’s graphic power is
as original and virile as ever. There is not
the slightest indication of a falling off in the
6000 odd illustrations scattered broadcast
throughout the 2662 pages of the colossal
volume. There is the same certainty
of touch, the same conscientious fidelity
to nature which appealed to cultured readers
of the earlier editions. Of course, the cap-
tious critic looking for faults with the petty
footrule of ill-nature, or the magnifying-
glass of envy, might detect trivial mistakes
here and there—such, for instance, as
one which occurs on page 923, where, in a
moment of inadvertence—a slip of the pencil,
doubtless—Mr. Webster has depicted the
Glyptodon with one joint too many in his
tail. Would it not be more in consonance
with a Christian spirit, instead of holding
this poor Glyptodon’s tail up to ridicule and
contempt, to write a nice letter to the
author, and ask him to kindly amputate this
superfluous joint in a future edition 1
In speaking of the Glyptodon, by-the-way,
Mr. Webster states that, when fully grown,
the creature measures 15ft, from snout to
tip of tail. The author is not aware, per-
haps, that ex-Fresident Roosevelt, as a boy,
when out hunting for Big Game in Texas,
shot a Glyptodon with his bow and arrow
that measured 16ft. 7jin., and it wasn’t a
very good day for Glyptodons either.
Some of the illustrations are simply bub-
bling over with humor. On page 44 Mr.
Webster gives us a cartoon in which our
High Commissioner is seen returning from a
Freemasons’ banquet on goat-back. He is
depicted with two faces ; one is turned
towards the tail of the galloping goat, and
the other in the direction of the festive
rider’s lodgings. He lias evidently not yet
quite finished dining, for in one of his four
hands he holds a cake of chocolate off which
he is chopping mouthfuls with a tomahawk.
In the mouth of the face looking tailwards,
our George holds a cigarette which he is try-
ing to light with the star of his Order of
Knighthood. It is plain that the great man
has had a very gopd time indeed.
If Mr. Webster ever gets tired of the
Dictionary business he will always find an
opening for that sort of thing at the Bulletin
office. (PP“ Stamps should accompany all
contributions.)
For further particulars the reader is hereby
advised to buy a copy for himself, for I don’t
intend to lend my copy to anybody.
The Flueney of Noyes
Alfred Noyes might have been a big poet
if he had had to do a perish when young.
His remarkable facility in the construction
of mellifluous verse attracted attention on
the appearance of his first book. The old
firm of Blackwood took him up, and he has
walked the primrose path ever since. At
the age of 30 he ha? collected himself in two
volumes, and on looking over the consider-
able area of verse there spread out one notices
its thinness. Poetry may be produced from
joy ; even in affluence the singer may still
charm ; but a man must go down deep into
experience of life (his own or other) to bring
back the major notes of song. The work of
Noyes is very creditable minor poetry. It
is poetry with a clean shave and a silk hat,
and on Sunday it takes round the plate.
The Collected Poems (Sydney Book Club)
comprises the contents of seven previous
publications, omitting a few items from
Poems (1904) and adding some new verses.
The first part of the collection was written
when Noyes was about 20 and had his head
full of Tennyson, Rossetti, Morris and Swin-
burne. Such lines as
The infinite compassion of the sea.
The sacrament and sabbath of the 86a.
and a passage like this
Under the heavy midnight of thine hair
An altar flames with spices of the south,
Burning my flesh and spirit in the flame ;
Till, looking tow’rds the land from whence I
came,
I find my comfort there,
And all the darkness to my thirsty mouth
Is fire ; but always and in every place
Blossoms the secret wonder of thy face.
showed that Noyes was an unusually pro-
mising pupil. “ The Flower of Old Japan,”
a tale in verse, is very prettily told, and
must be read in entirety. “Apes and
Ivory ” is worth quoting in full, and may be
compared with Masefield’s “ Cargoes ”
(printed here 2/9/’O9) :
Apes and ivory, skulls and roses, in junks of old
Hongkong,
Gliding over a sea of dreams to a haunted shore of
song,
Masts of gold and sails of satin, shimmering out of
the East,
Oh, Love has little need of you now to make his
heart a feast.
Or is it an elephant, white as milk and bearing a
severed head
That tatters his broad, soft, wrinkled flank in
tawdry patches of red.
With a negro giant to walk beside and a temple
dome above,
Where ruby and emerald shatter the sun—is it
these that should please my love?
Or is it a palace of pomegranates, where ivory-
limbed young slaves
Lure a luxury out of the noon in the swooning
fountain’s waves;
Or crouch like cats and sun themselves on the
warm white marble brink !
Oh, Love has little to ask of these, this day in
May, I think.
Is it Lebanon cedars or purple fruits of the
honeyed southern air,
Spikenard, saffron, roses of Sharon, cinnamon,
calamus, myrrh,
A bed of spices, a fountain of waters, or the wild
white wings of a dove.
Now, when the winter is over and gone, is it these
that should please my love?
The leaves outburst on the hazel bough and the
hawthorn’s heaped wi’ flqwer,
And God has hidden the crisp clouds build my
love a lordlier tower.
Taller than Lebanon, whiter than snow, in the
fresh blue skies above,
And the wild rose wakes in the winding lanes of
the radiant land I love.
There is color in that, and no mean quality
of craftsmanship.
With more pluck than discretion, Noyes
tackled the epic, and told the story of
Francis Drake in 12 books. This passage is
a fair specimen from the third book, in
which Drake discovers the flight of
Doughty:
. . . Then out of the gloom once more
The whole earth leapt to sight with all her woods,
Her boughs, her leaves, her tiniest twigs distinct
For one wild moment; but Drake only saw
The white flash of her seas, and there, oh there
That land-locked bay with those five elfin ships—
Five elfin, ebony ships upon a sheet
Of wrinkled silver ! Then, as the thunder fol-
lowed, . .
One thought burst through his brain—
Where was the sixth f
Over the grim, precipitous edge he hung,
An eagle waiting for the lightning now
To swoop upon his prey. One iron hand
Gripped a rough tree root like a bunch of snakes,
And, as the rain rushed round him, far away
He saw to northward yet another flash —
A scribble of God’s finger in the sky
Over a waste of white, stampeding waves.
The imagery here is forcible, but second-
hand. The verse all through flows along
quickly, with chips and straws from earlier
poetry on the surface —but it is time to men-
tion the few things which Noyes has done
really well. These are songs with a rollick-
ing spirit in them, and with stanzas from
two of them we will come to the end of
Noyes :
From “ Song of the Wooden-legged Fiddler.”
And now that my feet are turned homeward
again
My heart is still crying Ahoy ! Ahoy !
And my thoughts are still out on the Spanish
Main
A-ehasing the frigates of France and Spain ;
For at heart an old sailor is always a boy,
And his nose will still itch
For the powder and pitch
Till the days when he can’t tell t’other from
which,
Nor a grin o’ the guns from a glintx>’ the sea,
Nor a skipper like Nelson from lubbers like me.
Chorus : Nor a skipper like Nelson “from lubbers
like me.
From “ Forty Singing Seamen .”
Across the seas of Wonderland to Mogadore we
plodded,
Forty singing seamen in an old black barque.
And we landed in the tVilight where a Poly-
phemus nodded
With his battered moon-eye winking red and
yellow through the dark !
For his eye was growing mellow,
Rich and ripe, and red and yellow
As was time, since old Ulysses made him bellow
in the dark !
Chorus: Since Ulysses bunged bis eye up with a
pine-toreli in the dark !
The variation in the chorus is an improve-
ment.
The Best Ten
The entries in this competition (“ R.P; M
29/9/’10), though numerous enough to give a
fair idea of public opinion, were less than
expected and disappointing in that the votes
were scattered over so many names. Nearly
70 writers and artists were entered as can-
didates for immortality—surely a large
number for a young country 1
H.A.F.: “If the Mitchell Library trustees
adopt your suggestion, they ought to take only
the first five of the winning ten, or five who are
dead, and leave some blank spaces for posterity
to fill up.”
Mary McCommonwealth: “ Put up my first
two for the present, and go on adding a name
every decade. Lots of us are going to be very
great by-and-bv, if the Fates are kind.”
. The Blot: “As it is for a Library, why drag
in the artists ? ”
Ko-Ko : “ The idea is a good one, but I should
prefer to pool the writers and artists with men
like Parkes, Higinbotham, Dailey and Syme, and
then draw for the best 10.”
Anyhow, here are the names which received
the largest number of votes :
A. L. Gordon ... 48
Henry Lawson 47
Henry Kendall ... 33;
Victor Daley ... 31
Marcus Clarke ... ‘J9
A. B. Paterson ...' 28
Brunton Stephens 2fi
Norman Lindsay ... 21
A. H. Davis (Steele Rudd) ... 20
Phil May 18
with Rolf Boldrewood (17) as runner-up.
The following received over 10 votes each:
Roderic Quinn, J. F. Archibald, E. J. Brady,
E. Dyson and “Hop.”
These got over five each :
D. H. Deniehy, David Syme, Hugh MeCrae,
W, B. Dailey, Randolph Bedford, Ethel Turner,
A. H. Adams, J, Longstaff, W. H. Ogilvie and
Mary Gilmore.
There are over 40 other names which re-
ceived two or three votes each. Of the absent
—Mackennal, Lambert, Streeton and Mrs.
Humphrey Ward (!) were remembered ; Gil-
bert Murray and Haddon Chambers forgotten.
Of the dead, John Dunmore Lang and John
Farrell each received one vote ; Charles
Harpur none! One lady headed her list
with “Matthew Flinders.”
From a literary standpoint his work is not in
the first rank, but as the earliest writer to point
out that Australia was destined for something
better than a British prison he has a claim to
recognition.... In placing him in the honor list
Australia would be paying a graceful tribute to
this pathetic and patriotic figure of her early
early history.
The “ Red Page ” takes off its hat to Mrs.
Howe, of Cooma, for her tribute to Flinders,
He is, however, on the honor list for deeds
and is not remembered as a writer,
A. H. Chisholm (Maryborough, Vie.) “ an _
ticipating the popular choice,” sent eleven
names, of which nine were winners ; hut
substituted another list of his own prefer-
ences, and missed both first and second ’bus.
The list which comes nearest to that of the
Best Ten contains seven of the names. It
was sent by David McKee Wright (Glebe
Point, N.S.W.), who gets the first prize.
The second prize goes to Henry Pottage, of
Coburg, Vic., who picked six winners and
sent them in early.
D.M.W.’s list is here printed :
Henry Kendall : He touched the highest note in
Australian song.
Victor J. Daley : At his best, he is almost as
fine a singer as Kendall, while he has a wider
range and. more sustained singing power.
Marcus Clarke : He wrote the biggest prose book
to date.
Henry Lawson : Though his voice is a little hoarse,
he is the best interpreter of Australia.
Roderic Quinn : Has a small voice, but true lyric
power, and sometimes exquisite grace.
Lindsay Gordon : Though much over-rated, he is
a strong and manly singer.
Norman Lindsay : A prince of black and white.
Brunton Stephens : The best pictures in “ Con-
vict Once ” have a wonderful glow and splen-
dor.
Edward Dyson : While he has written much that
we do not want, he has written so much so
well.
Rolf Boldrewood : He is the only man on earth
who can handle such purely Australian sub-
jects as tallow and wool in light fiction.
Speaking Generally
Long novels are to be discouraged. They
were all right in the days when novels were
few, when there was a small reading public
which read the masterpiece of the year in
instalments, discussed it and re-read it, took
the heroine to their hearts, adored the hero,
and hated the villain with a fierce hatred.
Now there are so many reading publics, such
a multitude of novels, and so much else that
is worth reading.
It is not always safe to cut a few pages
and smell the paper knife to see what
a book is like; but three or four chapters
of The Way Up, by M. P. Willcocks
were sufficient to show that this mass of
print did not deserve further exploration. It
looked as solid as if the lady were trying to
build a gaol. The Shadow of a Titan , by A.
F. Wedgewood (Dymock’s), began well and
proceeded briskly, but hardly justified its
length. Camara, the tyrant of Bolumbia, is
a fantastical character study, with sugges-
tions of Simon Bolivar in his high enthusiasm
and of Porfirio Diaz in the ruthless wiping-
out of human obstacles. The reader cannot
visualise him very well; but Wedgewood
writes strongly—elusive and jerky as Mere-
dith sometimes—and he should make his
mark later on.
Clayhanger, by Arnold Bennett (Dymock’s),
is a huge slice of commonplace life cut out of
the Staffordshire town from which he took
The Old Wives’ Tale. Over 570 pages; but not
a gaol this time, rather a People’s Emporium
with something for everybody. What a tre-
mendous energy the man has! This is the
first of a trilogy, and tells the story of
Edwin ; the next volume will give us Hilda ;
and the third will reach the wedding bells.
Probably another trilogy will carry on the
story of their children. If Bennett lives
long enough, we may get their grand-
children. It makes one tired to think of
it. Yet the giants—Balzac, Hugo, Dumas,
Tolstoy—-did more than that. When they
created characters they liked they hated to
let them go early.
Speaking of Tolstoy, who seems to be near-
ing his end, the second instalment of Aylmer
Maude’s biography— Tolstoy: the last Fifty
Years —has just been issued. It amounts to
680 pages. Think of the interviewers, cine-
matograph and gramophone fiends worrying
the poor old crank, and all the chatter about
the man, while his novels are neglected !
No Aylmer Maude, thanks; we’d rather
read Anna Ka/ranina again.
— ;
The October Studio, the best English art
magazine, contains a lengthy appreciation of
the work of George W. Lambert, with repro-
ductions of a number of his recent paintings
and drawings.
T. P.’s Magazine (No. 1, October) is something
like a monthly edition of Tay Pay’s weekly, with
illustrations. “ The World’s Best Pictures and
Why”,is the title of an article which “places”
the magazine. The best part of No. I—barring
the quotations from Arnold, Poe, etc, —is Edwin
Glodd’s reminiscences of Herbert Spencer, Grant
Allen, Gissing and others. He quotes this front
one of Huxley’s letters to Ingersoll: “Glad-
stone’s attack on you is one of the best things he
has written. Ido not think that there is more
than 50 per cent, more verbiage than necessary,
nor any sentence with more than two meanings.”


m
~a
MW
The Toiler Hairpin Cabinet, Octagon Shape,
Mirror Corners, and Three Drawers containing
Scientific, Waved and Holdfast Hairpins, 1/4J.
For Satisfaction and Economy in
Fancy Haberdashery Cabinets,
... try ...
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
The Venus Mulrpln Cabinet, containing l'lain,
Ondulee, Flexor, Waved, Invisible and Patent
Scientific Hairpins, 1/4.
Cll2!—Tne Seamrog rtairpln Cabinet, Two
Dtavters, containing Scientific and Plain Hairpins,
1/3,
No. 907— Crocodile Leatherette-Covered
Workbox, Leatherette lined with Moreen,
Cotton Pockets, containing Scissors, Bodkins
and an assortment of Needles, 1/4.
A
r
No. 810— Solid Leather Workbox,
fitted with Scissors, Bodkin and
Assorted Needles. Moreen lined,
and Work Pockets (or Cotton, etc.
3/6.
No. 0113— The Pavilion.
This represents a new feature in Hairpin
Cabinets, made in light and fumed Oak
paper, with Octagon Top, inlaid with
four Mirrors, fitted with three Drawers
■with ring fall handles, containing best
Jet Flexor, Ondulee and Scientific Hair-
pins, 1/6.
No. r>99— Leatherette - Covered
Workbox, containing two Skeins
of Silko Embroidery, Scissors,
Bodkins, Sewing and Darning
Needles, 1/4.
No. 40— Leatherette Haberdashery Box, contain-
ing Scissors, Cotton, Sewing Silk, Needles and
Thimbles, etc., 3/-
\ I
\\
. I 1
SE
The Complete Needle Case, Leather covered, con-
taining 170 Gold-eyed Crochet Hook,
No. 904 Imitation Crocodile Leather-
Covered Workbox, Moreen Lined, Cotton
Pockets, containing Scissors, Bodkins, Sharp’*
Tapestry, Chenille and Darning Needles, two
Skins ol Silk, two Balls Mount Mellick Cotton,
3/9
The Derby Toilet Pin Cabinetj three
Drawers, Best Quality Hairpins, and Pin Tray
Top, 1/3.
No, 84—The Universal Needle Case, containing: Scissors, two Bodkins,
Crochet Hook and useful assortment of Needles, 1/6.
No. 904— Imitation Crocodile Leather-covered Workbox,
Moreen Lined, Cotton Pockets, containing Scissors, Bodkins,
Sharp’s Tapestry, Chenille and Darning Needles, two Skeins of
Silk, two Balls Mount Melliek Cotton, 3/9.
s V,
C ♦ y| r*
* a z
k'
The Rustproof Cloth-Covered Needle Case, Brass Bound.
Contains 132 Bartlett’s Best Assorted Needles, 1/- each.
qo The Ruby Needle Book, Calf-covered, lined Satin, containing
Scissors, Penknife, Button Hook, etc also a large assortment of
Needles, o/o.
No. 43— Bachelor’s Roll of Haberdashery, containing an
assortment of Pins, Needles, Buttons, Thread, etc., thus form-
ing a useful addition to a bachelor’s outfit, American Cloth, 2/3.
Our Christmas Price Lists will solve the present problem. Write
for copies, posted free on request. Here are the Special Lists:
Guide to Piccaninnies’
Paradise.
Popular Presents to
Suit Every Purse.
Books for Christmas
and Leisure Hours.
Christmas Grocery, J>
Tobacco, Perfumery and
Toilet Requisites.
No. 32— The London Needle Case, containing: 162 Needles of
various kinds, 9sd.
HORDERN
SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
Will Anprape for BOOKS.
How to Woo
and Win.
' THE ART AND
ETIQUETTE OF
Love and Courtship
The Best Lover’s Guide
Ever Published.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Trick's,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 .colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
{3g’~4/VD ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
tjft
m
v
7 J
9?
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where* appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling- the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of anv State will do.
prices include postage to any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
If you use a “ no-stro.pping ” razor
blade 20 times, you’ve had 19 dull
shaves and one keen shave.
Dulling, begins with the first shave. If
any blade could rea ’y hold its edge, you
would never have to throw the blade away.
If you use an Auto Strop Safety Razor,
every shave is as keen and smooth as
the first shave. No continual expense
for new blades. Automatically the
Auto Strop Safety Razor gives you a
perfect shaving edge. To strop it is as
easy as to wash it, —far easier than
inserting a new blade in a “no-
stropping ” safety razor.
k^ F z ET oR
This is the Razor used by His Excellency
the Governor-General of Australia.
25/- and no further expense.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto, Collins St., Melbourne ; 222, Clarence St., Sydney
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Fine Gem Ring, Real
Pearl, Sapphire,Ruby,
and Six Diamonds,
£6 15s.
Single Stone Brilliant,
£l7 15s.
.First qwaUty Diamonds,
£45. Other sizes
from £5 ss.
Fine Amethyst and
Diamond Ring,£& Bs.
Cable Address: RUSPOLI, LONDON.
Rubies or Sapphires
and Diamonds, £8 Bs.
sam
All Double Cut Bril-
liants, £l2 12s.
YOU GAN BUY FROM ENGLAND.
Pay your Duty and purchase
Cheaper and Better than you
are now doing. Write for
Catalogue containing 6,000
Illustrations, Post Free to
any part of the world.
4 Brilliants, with 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 15s.
Fine Amethyst Ring,
£2 15s.
2 Sapphires, 1 Ruby and
Diamonds ; 2 Emeralds
and Diamonds ; 3 Pearls
and Diamonds ; 2 Emer-
alds and Diamonds ; 2
Sapphires, 1 Ruby and
Diamonds, £5 5s.
Ruby and Sapphire, sur-
rounded by Brilliants,
£10 10s.
18-carat Ring, Rubies or
Sapphires & Diamonds,
£8 15s
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C,
Australian flutual Provident Society.
Next Distribution of Cash Surplus as at 31st December, 1910.
POLICIES EFFECTED IN THE ORDINARY DEPARTMENT BEFORE THE CLOSE
OF THE YEAR WILL SHARE IN THE CASH BONUS TO BE THEN ALLOTTED.
Surplus divided for the year 1909, £779,692. Total bonuses distributed, £15,116,584.
The Society being' a purely mutual institution the whole of the profits earned are divided among the part'll
pating- policy holders. It is therefore to the advantage of every member to recommend the Society to nis r •
Accumulated Funds, £25,750,000. Annual Income, £3,380,000.
Policies can be effected for any sum up to £lO,OOO. Write at once to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
anyJ)istrict Office or Agent of the Society, for full particulars.
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A, F.F.A., F.S.S.,
General Manager and Actuary.
W APPF.RLY.
Secret,ari r .
POSTAL INSTRUCTION
sdf
Are You Ambitious?
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Aurlito.
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
STEVENS FIREARMS
THE WORLD’S STANDARD.
in
Oj
Our
POPULAR PRICED RIFLES
are notable for their ACCU-
RACY, RELIABILITY and
LASTING QUALITIES.
STEVENS FIGHTING LINE.
Oar Derm-Bloc and Repeating Shotguns are "Superb for Trap and Field/'
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Insist on our make.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [7
CLEMENTS TONIC Letters
Read this letter from one who was
cured, and who suffered from nervous
breakdown so much that she was unable
to perform the slightest household duty.
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, 13/8/’io.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“My case was one of
general weakness and ner-
vousness which followed a
serious illness. I could not
walk more than a few yards,
and felt faint if 1 tried to do
any household duty. 1 was
like this for a long time.
My mother first started me
on Clements Tonic, with
good results soon. In a few
weeks I was completely
built up, in my nerves and
bodily health. Such a great
change 1 never thought pos-
sible. 1 was delighted.”
(Signed) MISS H. RICHARDS.
Spring Street,
South Brisbane, 29/8/’ 10.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“After losing our only son
(who was drowned in the
Brisbane River) a year ago,
my husband lost health. He
felt the bereavement dread-
fully. He could not sleep,
and would rise as tired as
when he went to bed. His
nerves v/ere so shattered
that he could not hold a tea
cup. 1 thought 1 would lose
him, and think 1 should have
but for the use of Clements
Tonic. After he had used
it he ate and slept better.
He is now strong again, and
is a different man.”
(Signed) CATHERINE FURLONG.
EDWARD FURLONG.
Witness: J. Davis, J.P.
For the creating of rich, good blood, making the nerves strong as steel, the stomach
healthy, the appetite keen, Clements Tonic never fails. It has no equal for the rapid relief
of poor blood, anaemia, hysteria, debility, or melancholia in women, or debility, liver or
kidney ailments in men. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.


'sSp t/ 1 k
A Family
Medicine
Without
Alcohol
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic
and alterative, free from alcohol.
What is a “tonic”? A medicine
that imparts strength or tone; a
medicine that builds up, gives
vigor and power. What is an
“alterative” ? A medicine that
alters or changes unhealthy ac-
tion to healthy action. Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla does all this with-
out stimulation. Ask your doc-
tor if a family medicine, like
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, is not vastly
better without alcohol than
with it.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A,
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
Ten Days* Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Higher-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyef
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
ft
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage*
fpr Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Dept, LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent, 167 Clarence St., Sydney,.
bn*
*
m
hj
w
Four ‘ELEY*
Favourites!
Tbeworlrl-wideand regularly in-
creasing sales of ELEY' Cartridges
among the most exiirting sportsmen
afford ample evidence of their relia-
bility and general excellence
Above illustrations show >2 bu*e smokeless
Eley 'Vulcan'—a ligh'ly loaded smokeless
cartridge.
Eley'Universal'—a black powder cartridge,
with an enormous sale
‘Eley Smokeless’ —a popular smokelesscar«
tridge. millions are sold annually-
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Illustration shows the
Eley U
•WINCHESTER'
Central Fire
Cartridge
Obtainable
through all
Gunmukers
and Dealers
Eley Bros. Ltd
London
<?■*
1
sd
Za w Points
£*■ /nuentors
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning the obtaining of Patents,
_ and the best means of keeping- the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
ap accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post ns to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially,
i A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
• Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
fs
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BOWNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE. SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” 1 [3
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
OUR JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils Vie requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST
28]
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
SAMPLE OF
TREATMENT.
Every woman may possess a perfectly-
developed and well-rounded bosom.
Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-food adds weight
where weight is needed, and perfects an
imperfect bust development.
Harmless to use, and in tablet form,
this method will gratify every wish of
the poorly-developed or attenuated
woman. Send a 2d. stamp for free
sample and full particulars, or call.
FALUERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.
DEPT. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
)
FOOD>
IDEAL
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constit-
uents in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch, and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infant Foods containing- Starch.
No Cooking. No added Milk.
Of all Chemists, Wholesale & Retail Stores.
Samples : 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Eng.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day's use. No
ste 1 bands t > torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Poited Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
C'IHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
j Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; othei
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
df
One: “By gad, did you notice her
complexion?”
The other: “Yes! They say she
takes GOLCRYST.”
f|OLCRYST consists of Salts, Senna, Sarsa-
parilla, Dandelion, Liquorice, and Ginger,
and is sold everywhere in 3d. ,6d. andl/- packets.
Write to Proprietors, Roche, Tompsitt & 00.,
Melbourne, for free sample. GOLCRYST is the
best blood purifier known. [1
S. SMITH & SON’S
%
v.
(LTD.)
“STRAND”
WATCHES
ARE THE
BEST VALUE
OBTAINABLE
Special Terms to
Shippers.
18 ct. Gold English Lever, £l6 16s. Od.; Crystal, £l3 15s. Od.
Sterling Silver „ £6 6s. Od.; „ £5 ss. Od.
Write for Catalogue WATCHES, Clocks, Jewellery, Speed Indicators.
HOLDERS OF SIX ROYAL WARRANTS.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Fire.
I wrote some rhymes once, rather fine and bright—
It is a way I have—in praise of Night.
Well, what I said then I do not regret.
I meant it all : I love the Night—and yet,
Although I like her cold, keen stars, I find
They grow cold company to my small mind.
I know these words strange diffidence denote,
Yet own the sky to be an overcoat.
Too large for me. Old Homer his great lines
Learnt by the sea-marge ! ’Neath Ravenna’s
pines
Dante saw Heav’n and Hell. I envy not
My brother-bards their methods or their lot.
Give me—and Mistress Battle said the same—
Clean hearth, clear fire, and rigor of the game.
Of course, this means, for me, the game of
rhyme—
On which I’ve spent much valuable time.
The Fire ! A lovely creature is the fire !
The wand’rer’s beacon when his faint feet tire.
The Fire that holds the dreams of long ago
Within its scarlet-hearted mystic glow.
Ah, golden Visions, could ye live once more !
The chances are I’d find ye all a bore.
And yet I wish ye were alive again
With Faith, Love, Youth and Pleasure in your
train !
I only wish to eat my cake, you see,
And then fall back upon a bakery.
The Fire that Mother Nature pulses through—
Earth’s wond’rous womb-flow’r, and her doom-
flow’r, too.
That on the Day of Wrath, as Faith believes,
Shall fold her body in its flaming leaves.
New Bards want boots, and I begin to tire.
I leave the Stars to them—give me the Fire.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Muse and Mrs.
Oh ! I was once a Muse’s pet,
With her I used to ramble \
Where lovers’ haunts are still “To Let’
And only rabbits gambol.
The Summer morns in secret haunts
We spent in making song, sir ;
And roamed for hours on joyous jaunts
Where nothing good was wrong, sir.
The glory and the gloom of Night,
The Day’s resplendent treasure,
She taught me how to sing aright
In many a lyric measure.
I might have been her lover still
Had I not been a stupid ;
A little brat I’d like to kill
O’erthrew me. Yes, ’twas Cupid !
He brought a costumed damosel;
Right in my path he set her.
Before her winsome wiles I fell,
My heart and soul in fetter.
My lofty Muse and limpid rhyme
I left, my wife to make her ;
And now I’m longing for a clime
Where I could safely shake her !
Oh ! heed these hints, ye turtle doves
Who only write for papers.
Let Muses be your only loves
And shun the ladies’ drapers.
A woman’s clothes are costly things
And drapers will have payment;
Your Muse’s simple traveling wings
Her tram-fares are and raiment.
VICTORIA.
SPEC.
Festina Lente.
Let who will scamper ’cross the globe,
With Cook or Baedeker or Murray,
Snatching at Time’s grey, streaming robe
In frantic haste and breathless hurry ;
Give me to loiter through green lanes,
Grey village-clusters ; ’mid the fields ;
Out o’er the downs and dotted plains.
Past where the lakes show burnished shields,
Or where the rivers wind away
Beneath the bridges, keeps and towers,
The skies may be of blue or grey,
The by-paths bare, or hid with flowers,
An old brown knapsack at my back,
An oaken staff for use, not show ;
My eyes my guides, and eke, my hack,
John Shanks’s pony, full of go.
For me, no hurrying dinner-gong
Disturbs the air with vibrant jar,
Arrests the current of my song,
Or chases dawning thought afari.
I take my time ; I wait; I pause ;
No interruption mars my line ;
I “ march at ease ” ; I know no laws,
And ev’ry sky’s to me divine ;
But chiefly ours, where overhead.
Set in the dreamy dome of Night,
The Southern Cross, with arms outspread,
Slow bathes the scene in calm delight,
And where our glorious Austral Sun,
Aye burns, to prompt the lofty rhyme,
Which, as some racer’s half-begun,
He leaves it so . . . for lack of time.
Though Art be long and Life be brief,
The prize is theirs who, pausing, stray
And bind for us the bursting sheaf
Of memories gathered by the way.
VICTORIA.
GEORGE GORDON McCRAE.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
■* < < « ■* * ‘ ‘.lf-,
' i V \ v v.> !} .•
J. -*- V- A J* V * •
jj-,1 lI4JI i[ ■ltlllifUllJ
iilSini i^«!H6f ■>
B| ~, .. .j. i i M
|[|g*EtElll i lilM
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 45. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
a
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larg-e bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l,
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Orjtan Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Comer of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane,
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street. —Local Director: A. MESTON.
sdf
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Qiiay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Demonstrator AcentsWanted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating
on ordinary lamp oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for
farms, shops, and all power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and Pumping
outfits Sawing outfits. Marine Engines for boatsand Marine Reverse Gears. Sizes 2-h.p.
toioo-hp One to eight cylinders. Enginesfully warranted and built to work. Liberal
commissions paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely
finished demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed ,
FR EE. Write for our proposition to agents and users of power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S. A.
sd
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grjjnd
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during’ the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for mfl
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office —or your own residence— JlpWiit
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
SILVER PLATE
Original and Exclusive Designs, combined
with the Highest Standard of Workmanship.
We take particular pride in our fine Silver Plate, and have no hesitation in inviting you
to come and look, with the assurance that our stock in Artistic Merit and Character will
appeal to you, and nowhere else m Sydney can you get such Value for Ready Money.
Our Christmas Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free Anywhere.
Stewart Dawson U Company
(Australia), Ltd.,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
J4239—Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver and
three “ Royal Doulton ” China Plates for
Afternoon Tea, £l/10/-
J44s2—Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver,-35/-
J.4237—Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver
Cheese Dish, with Glass lining,- £l/7/6.
J3l96—Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver Table
Gong and Vases, £l/17/6.
J4s79—Fine Gut Glass, with
Silverplated Lid and Spoon,
Preserve Jar, 4/6.
J'3l24— Fine Out Glass and
Silverplate Preserve Jar, 11/6.
H9l94—Flower Stand, best Electro
Silverplate, with tour clear Glasses,
£l/17/6.
Jl4oG—Best Electroplate on Nickel
Silver Sauce Boat, 10/6.
J 420 Electroplate on Nickel
Silver Candlestick, 10/6.
1
*
J43o4—Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver and clea.
Glass Stewed Fruit Dish, with Spoon, 16/6.
J43o3—Best Electro Silverplate Soup Tureen
and Spoon, £2/5/-
■J4234—Best Electroplate on Nickel
Silver Kettle, Stand and Lamp, £2/15/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
V01.'31. —No. 1606.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER *>4, 1910.
PIUCK til).
fs
THE WRITING ON THE WALL.
A general election is to be held in Britain next month on the question of Reforming the Second Chamber.


' XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER IS.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Alf Vincent, Norman
Lindsay and other leading representative artists,
will be the finest Black and White work obtainable
in'Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
Tub Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for. ————
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES Should
reach us at once to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d. r-
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bullktin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveel: for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tube addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters ( with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, 'l'o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivoris, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
31S. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of 3fS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for diiikct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to 3[S.
Tiir Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of 31essrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at U/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London. W.C.
South Auriga. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Eoyft. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hons Ivons. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim Bulletin metal advertising plates, size (i fin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1910.
BORDER RAILWAYS AND BORDER
MADNESS.
Ten years ago Queensland held third place
among the Australian States as a railway
builder, with Victoria first and N.S.W. a good
second. That was the position of affairs at
he end of the Separatist period, and the
anti-Federalist of those days urged that the
railway map had better be rolled up and put
away, for it wouldn’t be wanted again within the
memory of living man. To-day Queensland is re-
puted to own more railway mileage than any other
State, with N.S.W. in second place, and Victoria
third ; and Kidston’s State has also in view the
biggest scheme of construction in all Australasia.
A portion of the Queensland mileage, however,
is private property, and a considerable amount is
owned by local bodies, and consists of 2ft. rattle-
trap, with quaint band-box engines and rolling
stock that suggests a herd of wooden nightmares.
Reckoning State-owned lines only, Kidston’s
country now holds second place, with N.S.W.
first and Victoria third. There has been a fair
amount of progress in recent years, divided as
follows:
Miles of Miles of
Railway open Railway open In-
-30/6/1901. 30/6/i909. crease.
N.S. Wales.. .. 2845 J 36231 777}
Queensland .. .. 2801 3498 697
Westralia .. .. 1355 2044 J 68‘Jj
Victoria .. .. 3237 3410 173
S.A 1736 1888 152
Tasmania .. .. 457 J 463 51
N. Territory .. 145| 145 J
It is a sorrowful record as regards the Territory ;
but that place has been in a state of suspended
animation for the last 10 years, awaiting transfer to
the Commonwealth. It is also a specially dreadful
record as regards Tasmania. But, in a general
way, the effect is encouraging. In 1901 the
Commonwealth had miles of railway ; and
8276 miles, or 66 per cent, of the total, were
crowded into that infinitesimal south-eastern
corner which was for so long practically the
beginning and end of Australia. In 1909 the
total mileage was 15,072^; and or 62 per
cent., was still in the south-eastern corner. It
wasn’t much of an improvement, yet to the
extent of 4 per cent, the great empty spaces have
become less empty and more hopeful. In
the four old railway-building States—N.S.W.,
Victoria, Tasmania and S. Australia—lloBl
miles of new line were opened, while
Queensland and Westralia, the empty lands
where the danger is nearest and the garri-
son weakest, built miles. This at least
suggests that Australia—the big Australia, not
merely the little fraction that the lags and the old
gaolers came to —is really beginning to exist at
last.
* * * *
Now Premier Kidston of Queensland proposes
to add 1739 miles of new railway to the Queens-
land Government system. If his scheme is adopted
this sudden outbreak should make Queensland
the most railwayed State in the Commonwealth.
The great coastal line which runs from Adelaide
(in a few years its starting point will be Perth)
via Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane to Rock-
hampton, is to be shoved 447 miles further north
to Cairns, which is away up on Cape York Penin-
sula, and is almost the limit in that direction.
Then the lines which extend westward from the
coast are to be carried further west; and, finally,
their western extremities are to be joined together
by a railway extending north-westerly through
the sunset end of Queensland till it finishes at
Camooweal, which is the town of Nowhere, in
the far, far North, where Queensland and the Terri-
tory join. Camooweal isn’t on the coast. It isn't
on any definite geographical feature. Such import-
ance as it possesses lies in the fact that it is such
a fearsome distance (200 miles) from any other
place that it ranks as a cheerful speck in the im-
mensity, and is a pleasant drinking-centre in a
land where beers are often seven days apart.
Also, its population in 1891 was 83, and in 1901 it
was 154. This is where the great western line is
to end, while its beginning is to be at Wallal, a
spot of even less importance. So this western line
is evidently Kidston’s bid for the deviation of the
Port Darwin-Adelaide railway into Queensland.
In fact, he already intimates as much, for he
grandiosely describes his proposed fragment of
purely State railway, beginning at a dropped pin
in the vastness of South-West Queensland and
ending at a neglected pumpkin seed in the north-
west, as the “transcontinental.”
* * * *
Kidston’s proposed effort is a warning to the
Commonwealth that the time for Federal railway
control is very close at hand. In ihe early
days State management seemed quite good
enough. At that time, though each State had
commenced to build a railway out from its own
capital, no State quite believed that its line would
ever reach the other fellow’s capital. When the
lines met they met almost by accident. Very
often, however, a line reached the border, and
didn’t meet any line on the other side, and, when
the builders made inquiry, they found that there
was no intention of building a continuation on the
other side. These are the lines that end nowhere
in particular, like an ass that has hurried towards
a thistle and stopped half-way. They belong to no
system in particular. There is population so far
as they go, and beyond there is blank emptiness.
Victoria has eight lines that touch the N.S.W.
border, and four more that approach close to the
border. Two of these connect with a main N.S. W.
line, and one with a little stump of private
railway ; the rest are “in the air.’’ Victoria and
S.A. have one connection. Certain lines come
very near to connecting in half a dozen places,
but provincial jealousy keeps them apart. The
N.S.W lines touch those of Queensland at one
place, and they approach closely at Murwillum-
bah, Inverell, Moree, Collarendabri, Walgett,
Brewarrina and Bourke, but remain rigidly apart.
Also, a Queensland railway comes close to N.S. W.
at Cunnamulla ; and the Warwick-Goondiwindi
railway runs for many miles almost in sight of
the N.S.W. border, but doesn’t once get on
speaking terms with the neighboring State.
These are the only three borders where the
question of railway connections has yet arisen,
and only at these three places has any attempt
been made to decide whether it is possible
to make out of five separate and cantan-
kerous managements a good Australian system
planned in the interests of all Australia. The
result has been disastrous. There are about 26
points at which the railways of one State have
approached or touched the border of another and
invited a connection, and 22 times the other State
said it would be hanged first.
# * * *
Now enterprise begins to assume larger dimen-
sions. Southern Westralia wants to connect with
S. Australia. Railway construction is com-
mencing in the northern part of Westralia. It
will soon, no doubt, be resumed in the Territory,
and Premier Kidston proposes to start work in
Western Queensland on a scale never before
attempted. The parochial jealousies and quarrels
and meannesses which have made a hash of things
on three borders will apparently, unless the Com-
monwealth takes a hand, begin, by way of variety,
to make a hash of things on nine borders. On
the three frontiers where State railway systems
have already met there are about two score places
where a soured and angry mpans of transit stops
short at a stump because some imaginary local
interest in another State forbids it to go
any further. That is to say, there are
already some two-score places where, in time
of urgency, the army may have to get out
and walk with its cannon under its arm. If State
management, when it spreads out over the con-
tinent, proposes to repeat this foolishness, Aus-
tralia will ultimately be a land of about six or
eight reasonably consecutive railways and 120 or
1200 dead-end lines. And in time of war the
enemy who holds one or two important junctions
can, by reason of these dead-end lines, cut the
pupulation of any State into six or eight isolated
communities not one of which can lend a hand to
the rest. This trouble is in addition to the sever-
ance and isolation created by Australia’s five rail-
way gauges —sft. 3in., 4ft. 3ft. 6in., 2ft.
6in., and 2ft.
* * * *
When Premier Kidston proposes to build his
western line, not to one of his own ports oil the
Gulf, but from the N.S.W. border to the Federal
frontier at Oamooweal, his purpose is fairly ob-
vious. The magnificent title of “ transconti-
nental ” which he affixes to his proposed bit of
narrow-gauge road makes it still more obvious.
There will be a clamor for connection per Federal
railway with Port Darwin on the north and ne-
gotiations for a connection through N.S.W. as far
as the Murray on the south. If the scheme comes
off the transcontinental line will be under four
different managements, and its route will
be decided by four different authorities, and
it will probably be of three different gauges,
and there will be four different scales of
charges. Still, the line will go through Aus-
tralia, just as the present Adelaide-Brisbane line
does. But then the different authorities will
start building branches to each other’s borders,
and with these the authorities across the border
will refuse to connect for fear they may “ divert
trade,” and it will be, on a larger scale, the case
of the stump lines which stop short at the
Murray all over again. Looking at the three
borders where four big railway systems meet
already, the only possible conclusion is that State
railway management can’t be trusted with a
border, or anywhere near a border. Looking at
the five gauges one is driven to doubt whether
State railway management can be trusted
with a gauge. To put the thing shortly,
the mere fact that Kidston’s scheme sug-
gests the beginning of divided control where
Queensland and the Territory join, where West
Queensland and Western N.S. W. join, and where
N.S.W. and S.A. join, is good reason why the
Commonwealth should make haste to ask the
people for authority to take over the railways
bodily. Places where two States join seem to
make State management drunk. Frontiers have
the same consequence as opium. Provincial
boundaries have a maddening effect. Premier
Kidston’s enterprise is admirable, but mere
enterprise isn’t everything in this case.
PLATITUDES AT THE OPENING OF
PARLIAMENT.
The first State Labor Ministry that N.S.W. has
possessed faced the Legislature last week, and
made its first official utterance through the mouth
of the gubernatorial Rubber Stamp—the first
Rubber Stamp that Labor could describe as its
own particular Stamp. One thing at least can be
said for that speech : it was eminently cautious.
There was in it no combustible or devastating
element. It was free of contentious matter. It
didn’t suggest a red-headed madman running
amok with a torch in his hand, setting fire to the
home, and severing the marriage-tie, and tearing
up society by the roots. There is even room for a
suspicion that the Sabbath calm of the docu-
ment was overdone, and that caution was carried
to excess ; but, on the other hand, there is this
advantage about the speech which says nothing
—it leaves the Opposition less room to declare that
it said the wrong thing. The gubernatorial Rub-
ber Stamp addressed both Houses in sentences 1
to 3of his deliverance; he addressed the Assembly
alone in sentences 4 to 6 ; and he again directed
himself to both Houses in sentences 7 to 11.
Clause No. 1 said that his Excellency was glad to
see the assembled legislators, and it courteously
forebore to add that there had been times when
he was a great deal gladder. No. 2 said that the
session wouldn’t last so long as it would have
done if it had started earlier. No. 3 said that the
weather had been remarkably good and that the
crops had been bosliter, or words to that effect.
No. 6 set forth that it was too late in the year to
effect certain proposed changes in the method of
keeping the public accounts, and hinted that next
year might be earlier, especially the early part of
it, which naturally wouldn’t be so late as the
latter part. No. 11 asserted that his Excellency
would now put on his cocked hat and leave with
all his forces, which action, so far as this
paper is aware, he thereupon performed, for if
he didn’t he must have slept on the premises.
Thus, out of eleven remarks entrusted to his Excel-
lency, five were non-political and only one of the
five could possibly be called debatable —that in
which he said he was glad to see the members
present. The idea of any man being glad to see
Fitzpatrick appears impossible.
* * * *
As for the six sentences in which the Govern-
ment propounded its policy for the session, they
were, if possible, a shade more non-committal than
the five other sentences. Nos. 4 and 5 dealt with
finance ; they were practically one, and they were
so much alike that either of them might have been
the other. This was how they ran
4. The public finances have been the subject of the
earnest consideration of my advisers, who will, in the very
near future, be called upon to face a serious diminution
in the returns from the Commonwealth. When the
financial statement comes to be considered, it will be
found that my advisers are fully alive to the altered cir-
cumstances of the State, and are prepared to take all
necessary measures to maintain financial stability. In
this connection, it is gratifying to note that the State-
owned services continue to be an increasingly valuable
factor in the public finances.
5. Estimates of expenditure for the present year,
framed with due consideration for economy and for the
needs of the public service, are being prepared, and will,
in due course, be laid before you.
The other paragraphs were equally devoid of riot,
and free from any sign of the tempestuous habits
which arise from excess in beer. One announced
that there is to be an amended electoral law, but
it gave no hint as to the possible nature of the
amendment. As a matter of fact, there generally
is an amended electoral law. Another asserted
that there will be a new law dealing with indus-
trial matters, but neglected to mention the
character of the new law. There are very few
sessions in which something isn’t done about in-
dustrial matters. A third observation was to the
effect that the Government would propose legisla-
tion (description not specified) “dealing with the
lands required for the northern Murrumbidgee
irrigation settlement.” And, finally, there arose,
like Samson with the gates of Gaza on his back,
this powerful statement: —
10. The public works policy has been framed with a
view to meeting growing public requirements, and
several important works of an urgent character will be
submitted for your approval.
Even after all these revealments the public isn’t
unduly oppressed with information, and least of
all is it oppressed with knowledge on financial
subjects. ' The State cash-box, it seems, has
received “serious consideration,” which is a thing
that has happened to it on many previous occa-
sions, with results that were good, bad, indifferent
and various. The Government, by its own frank
admission, is “ fully alive,” but then what Govern-
ment has ever described itself as “fully dead”? The
McGowen Cabinet’s finances, it seems, are to pre-
serve a happy mean, the Treasurer keeping one eye
upon economy and the other on efficiency, care-
fully remembering how little the community
wants to pay, and not forgetting what a darned
lot it would like to'get for the money. Whether
the Cabinet expects a surplus or a deficit, whether
it reckons on increasing expenditure or cutting it
down, whether there will be new taxes or not—
none of these things appear. It doesn’t describe
itself as a borrower or a non-borrower, and it gives
no hint as to how its “important works” (whatever
they may be) are to be financed. It makes no re-
marks about its decentralisation policy or its anti-
decentralisation policy. What it mentions, in effect,
is that its financial proposals will be visible by-
and-bye, and what it hints is that they will be, in
its own opinion, very good proposals when they
turn up. The whole business may be taken to
signify that Premier McGowen sees little joy in
carrying on with a pledged and reliable majority
of only two, and intends very shortly to have a
new election ; or, again, it may mean almost any-
thing else. The Speech is probably the mistiest
thing of its kind that Australia lias yet met with,
but there is a tradition that the useless old Speech
should be misty ; and, if that is once admitted,
the mere degree of fog matters little. Possibly
one idea was to emphasise the uselessness of that
fading official, the State Governor, with his
costly residence, his aides-de-camp, his retinue,
his pomp, his glittering cocked hat and hi v s other
appurtenances. The chief reason of his existence,
nowadays, is to open and shut the State Legisla-
ture with a paper of platitudes. It never was
much of a reason, and it looks less feasible than
ever now that the definite part of the vice-regal
deliverance is reduced to three propositions: (1)
that the eminent gentleman is glad to be here;
(2) that the weather and crops have been gpod ;
(3) that he will now put on that absurd survival,
his official headgear, and take himself out of the
way before he becomes a nuisance.
THE FORLORN HOPE PARTY.
“Liberalism ” in almost every part of Australia
is casting round for a new name now that it has
come to smash under the old one. In its ex-
tremity The Bulletin offers it the one which
stands at the head of these few sorrowful and
sympathetic remarks. “The Forlorn Hope
Party ” has an expansive, heroic sound that
should appeal, in particular, to those N.S.W.
folks who relied largely for success in October, on
the fact that their leader was a species of apotheo-
sized Boy Scout. Above all, it is descriptive,
which “Liberal party” never was and never
could be. Ex-Premier Wade and the army of big
land-owners, bankers, importers and absentee
capitalists who stand behind him, are up against
more than a mere political party. They are in
the desperate position of the Portuguese Royal
Family yesterday and the Spanish Royal Family
to-day, of steam-trams, imported State Governors
and a hundred other anachronisms. The enemy
is not Labor, but Progress, the child of Learning ;
and, along with Progress, common-sense and the
Genius of the Nation.
# # * *
In every more or less civilised age there has
existed a body of people with a yearning to
do things in opposition to another body which,
finding this the best of all possible worlds, has
been in favor of sitting down and maintaining the
status quo. The stupider, less cultivated and
more miserable the people, the fewer avowed
malcontents there have been, and the more Peace :
ful Sitters. There have even been communities
in which all appeared to Vie Conservatives. In
the very early days of European history, when
the Castle completely dominated the Village,
generation after generation passed without any-
one arising to argue that there were flaws in an
arrangement whereby the Baron was enabled to
carouse on expensive wines and, generally, do
himself and his friends well, while those who
tilled his fields lived in a chronic state of semi-
starvation. When, in the course of years, the
serfs started to get restive, Religion was employed
to soothe, and the doctrine of Eternal Punish-
ment to cow them. The underling who was un-
willing, in consideration of a heavenly; recom-
pense, to accept the intolerable position in which
it had pleased Providence to place him, and who
jibbed at the social rules drawn up by his betters,
was assured that he should sizzle for ever in fire
and brimstone. And another period of inaction
set in.
* * * *
There has been no great reform movement that
the “Liberals” of the period haven’t fought to
the last ditch with all the weapons they could
command. When Clarkson, Sharp, Wilber-
FORCK and the rest started their campaign against
the iniquities of the Middle Passage, they were
denounced by the “Liberals” of their day as de-
mented revolutionaries. Slaves were Property,
and those who advocated emancipating them were
advocates of robbery and confiscation. It was
natural that the same people should on the same
principle oppose the subsequent efforts of the
white slaves in their midst to throw off the
shackles of caste privilege, inequitable laws, land
monopoly and the like. Also, it was natural
that, as the world forged ahead in knowledge and
intelligence, the obstructionists should always
encounter defeat.
* * * *
A party is known by its supporters; and the
most casual scrutiny of the Wade party in N.S.W.
discloses it as the lineal successor of the one that
has been trailed in the dust of reverse all through
civilised history. In the forefront of it are
Samuel McCaughky, A. A. Dangar and the
other holders of vast tracts of arable land which
should be under human beings, but are only under
sheep. Also the party contains the Coopers,
who own Rose Bay and most of Woollahra, and
spend their rents in England; James Onslow,
of Camden Park, part of whose inheritance
was the more valuable portion of Elizabeth
Bay; importers, like William McMillan ; the ma-
jority of lawyers and sharebrokers and agents and
money-lenders—in short, the sort of citizens who
h ive been opposed to progress since the world
started to move. These people are used to losing
battles. They fought manhood suffrage, and still
bitterly ascribe most of their troubles to it. They
fought the Socialistic principle of State Educa-
tion, and would scotch it now if they could. They
fought payment of members and the Early Closing
Act. They have only lately retired in dis-
order from the battle with Federation; in-
deed, there still remain a few stalwarts of


the Old Guard who continue to carry on
a guerilla warfare with this particular foe. Ail
industrial legislation, from Factory Acts to Arbi-
tration, has been opposed by them openly m the
past, and is still cursed by them covertly. Ihe
Spirit of the Age has pushed certain of their
leaders, from time to time, a little way along the
path of progress; but always those leaders have
gone protestingly, with their heels dug firmly into
the earth, so to speak, and accompanied by a woe-
ful chorus from their followers.
* * * *
Hat-importer Storey, who told the Sydney
newspapers last week that, “ in his view, the time
the time had come fora stoppage of legislation,
and a period of governmental inaction except as
regards administrative work,” voiced the senti-
ments of every genuine “Liberal.” It is the senti-
ment which inspired the mediaeval Baron when
the Town first started to rear its walls to the
detfiment of his vested interests; the sentiment
of the anti-Abolitionists ; of the Georgian squires
when Old Sarum began to tremble for its exist-
ence ; and of the present-day Tories who shudder
at the idea of putting a check on the House of
Lords. The N.S.W. “Liberals” who pay the
party piper, and so—fairly enough—claim the
right to call the tune, cry as of old for stagnation,
even if they can’t have reaction. But the elec-
tors, strong in knowledge and power, decline to
let them have either. On its face, N.S.W.
“Liberalism” represents a forlorn hope; it
began to sag at the knees when the bulk of the
people learned to read, and to-day it is in its
death-struggle. It is up to it to christen itself
accordingly.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Murray, Chief Sleeper.
Among all the little local politicians who com-
plain with bitterness about “ Federal encroach-
ments” and “the necessity for'defending the
rights of the States” the most maddening, though
not the loudest, is John Murray, of Victoria.
Murray is maddening because of his utter incon-
gruity. “Federal encroachment,” when boiled
down, is simply a proposal that the Common-
wealth instead of the State should do for the
people certain things which the people want
done. “State Frights,” when boiled down, is the
counter proposition that things which the people
want done should be attended to by the
State Governments. Now, men like Verran,
McGowen and Kidston have this excuse for
talking State Frights, that they do things,
more or less. Murray doesn’t. He is the
Unutterable Leaner Against a Post. Victoria
has the choice between Federal encroachment and
getting things done for it by the Australian
Government, or State Frights and having things
left undone by Murray. Murray supplies the
great argument in favor of Unification and Re-
construction. He is theoretically a Democrat,
but the only practical evidence of democratic
sentiment which he shows these days is the habit
of wearing untidy and trodden-on clothes. His
garments suggest that he stood in the middle of his
bedroom every morning and had them thrown at
him with a pitchfork. He is the Boss Tired Man
—the Eighth Sleeper of the. World. He allowed
the House of Rich Landlords to reject his financial
proposals a year ago, and when the time came to
put up candidates against some of his worst
opponents he was too weary to put up a single
candidate. He just went to bed. He was too
fagged to buck when the Landlords crippled his
colleague’s State coal mine by forbidding him to
sell coal to the public, though he could supply
Melbourne at not much more than half the price
it is paying for the imported article. He was too
exhausted to complain when his utterly imbecile
Railway Department forgot to build coal trucks,
even though it knew that a coal mine was start-
ing, and thus nearly burst up the show. His new
railway station, which was to serve all the require-
ments of Melbourne for years, was hopelessly
out of date before it was opened, and it isn’t on
record that Murray cursed once or showed the
least sign of energy. When he was asked
why Victoria showed such an enormous
increase in the way of railway accidents he did
practically nothing but yawn. When he was told
that the suburban railway system had gone so
completely to the Devil that 25 people were trying
to ride in a compartment built for eight, he did
the same thing. Victoria has behn clamoring for
years because the local bodies, bossed by land-
owners who object to pay taxes, are letting the
country roads fall into such utter decay that they
are almost impassable in many places. The roar
became so terrible that Murray introduced a Bill
to create a Main Roads Board—and then dropped
it without even a pretence of any reason save that
he is the Most Exhausted Man. Victoria has had
an Indeterminate Sentences Act for some years,
but it hasn’t even yet provided a place for its
Indeterminates. When Murray was reminded
of this for the fiftieth time he only remarked, in
protest against the disturbance, that “Rome
wasn’t built in a day.” The retort that Rome
was begun on a day missed fire, the Premier
having goue to sleep again. The clamor for im-
proved harbor accommodation doesn’t awake
Murray, and the fact that those of his measures
which he doesn’t drop himself are mostly thrown
out by his Upper House arouses him to no un-
seemly anger. Melbourne’s police force has faded
until it is on record that there have been days
when the city was in charge of four men ; it has
become so shockingly inefficient that nowadays
practically every murderer and burglarescapes; and
it is openly charged with wholesale corruption, in
which respect it is in the same boat with the
shockingly discredited J.P. who is still allowed
to administer “justice” in Melbourne. Affairs
have become so bad that a State member
the other day seriously proposed that Federal
soldiers should be borrowed to patrol the
streets of the big city. These things only
cause Murray to turn over in his disordered
bunk. In a political sense he is so tired that lie
can sleep in three beds at once, and when he is
awake he can lean against four posts at once.
Yet he is angered at the idea of the Common-
wealth acquiring the power to do things for the
Victorian people—acquiring it, too, from the Vic-
torian people and with their full concurrence. He
considers that if the community is deprived of the
chance to see him neglecting his work it will be
deeply wronged, and the Constitution will be
damaged. He doesn’t know that he is asleep;
probably he wouldn’t, know if he was dead.
Murray will go down to posterity (horizontally)
as the Chief Lingerer. He isn’t a dilettante
trifler ; . he isn’t a Qynic ; he .isn’t an incurable
pleasure-seeker. He is just a restful presence—a
reposer and a leaner—a chronic sloper (like Orion)
towards the west, because sunset brings the hour
of repose. When he departs at last to the poli-
tical cemetery. his epitaph will be “gone to his
long home.” Murray doesn’t require a tall home,
for he doesn’t stand up much; but he needs it
When the Fire Breaks Out.
In this ridiculously peaceful land Capital has
never yet been forced to gather up its skirts and
leap over dead bodies to gain the shelter of a
foreign warship’s guns. The howls, red paint
and brass helmets of the Fire Brigade have to
inspire our theme-hungry poets, who never see a
real regiment drilling or watch the smoke of a
battle fleet on the horizon. Even martial music
is scarce. The dusty German band just blows
“The Muddled Widow,” or some such lunacy,
from breakfast-time till the drunks’ train is on
the point of leaving town ; and usually it is so
infuriated at getting nothing from the drunks and
idle women who furtively listen to the braying,
that it blows in mouthfuls of wrong notes and
sends the dismal tune sour. When some weak-
minded person gives it a shilling, the band
triumphantly grunts “The Watch on the Rhine.”
There is no solace in these things for the person
who likes to have his pulse quickened occasion-
ally; so the clatter and yells of the Fire Brigade
and the smoke and flames of a burning edifice
remain practically his only excitement. Fat, of
Flinders-lane, will snore in your face if you tell
him the Anglo-Jap Alliance expires in 1915; for
he cannot realise there is a possible con-
flagration behind it. But burn a handful
of calico beneath one of his warehouse counters
and yell “ Fire /” and he will bound so high in
the air that the calm, dispassionate eye-witness
will mistake him for an ascending balloon and
hurriedly call his family out to witness the usual
parachute descent. The following fire brigade
story, clipped from an evening paper, is, there-
fore, a good hat-rack on which to hang a moral: —
No Water, No Brigade.
Murrurundi, Thursday.—A fire broke out at the resi-
dedce of Mr. Ale. Smf.k last night. The building and
contents, with the exception of a few articles of furni-
ture, were completely destroyed. The property was not
insured. A large crowd of willing hands assembled, but
there being neither water supply nor fire brigade, they
could render no assistance.
Read it this way :
No Railways, No Cartridges.
A brisk rifle and artillery fire broke out in the northern
wing of Mr. Australia’s residence last night. The con-
tinent and contents, with the exception of a few mem-
bers of the “ Liberal ” party, were completely destroyed.
The valuable property was practically uninsured. A
large crowd of willing hands assembled in the south-
eastern wing, but there being neither cartridges nor
transcontinental railways, they could render no assist-
ance.
It won’t be a pleasant thing to read; yet there
are few things more certain than that it will be
read unless Australia begins to take a big view of
things, and hurries up.
+
The Title Trap.
The indignity of a title, eagerly accepted by many
Australian politicians, and industriously sought
after by every gaud mayor in his turn, has been
refused by General Botha and J. C. Smuts, of the
new South African Ministry. It is early to pre-
dict that titular distinctions will be prohibited to
the citizens of the Union ; but the example of the
first two Dutchmen who were tempted by the per-
nicious bauble seems likely to suggest an unwritten
clause in the S’African Constitution which will
put the country on the same democratic level as
the United States and other lands where badges
of social “ rank ” are officially condemned as being
worse than worthless. The Australian Common-
wealth, so far from taking measures to stamp out
the plague of titles which has been ravaging the
States from their infancy, intensified the evil by
sanctioning a knighthood for its first Prime
Minister. Officialdom all over this continent
is spotted with the disease. Men of good
repute and men of ill repute, modest men
of high ability and bounders of no ability what-
ever, carry the same tag. But whether it is
borne by a statesman or a chief flunkey, as a
diffuser of snobbery the title has the same effect.
The democrat who gets caught in the trap ceases
to be an honest representative of the popular
democratic sentiment. Knowing that he has
been inoculated with the virus of snobbery, his
natural self-esteem prompts him to regard as a
virtue what he formerly denounced as a vice.
This is the fate of the best kind of modern
knight. The worst kind seeks no excuse for
having realised his wildest dream, his fondest
knightmare. To him it seems that the highest
purpose of Government is the creation of a
titled class; and a number of envious citizens
take the same view of the matter. The respon-
sibility of the whole matter rests upon the people
who have permitted it to exist in the national
Constitution and are complacently treating it as
inevitable. If the question of admitting new
titles and recognising those already foisted on the
Commonwealth were put to the referendum, the
answer would be an emphatic majority of “No.”
Then why continue to tolerate them ?
♦
The Sydney Ferries Monopoly.
The Daily Telegraph, while backing up the
Greater Sydney idea, gives grudging praise to
the big things the City Council has done, and
goes on :
Naturally it (Greater Sydney) would either take over
or control services under other administrations, though
some of its advocates appear to foresee more transference
than is likely or desirable. It is difficult, for instance, to
imagine any sort of municipal management that would
improve the magnificent ferry service with which the
people are already provided.
But in the case of the ferry service it is not neces-
sary to prove mismanagement. The intrinsic
crime of monopoly is a sufficient reason for “in-
terference.” To that charge of monopoly may,
however, be added a count for sweating and an-
other for acting against public policy by restrain-
ing the marriage of its employees {vide public
records); The tremendous affluence of the big co.
is due to the fact that the publicly-owned railways
and trams feed it with about a hundred millions
of passengers annually, and those hundred millions
are at the mercy of a management over which
they have no control whatever. While things go
well the public is well enough treated ; but there is
no guarantee against a public disaster through
the management developing some preposterous
crotchet or other. It was in consequence of some-
thing of this kind that in 1901, when the Ferries
Ltd. went on strike against its employees and the
public during the visit of the present King and
Queen to Sydney, the Daily Telegraph said :
The isolation of 40,000 metropolitan residents was not
averted Until the means of transit had been disorganised
for a whole day, and the public subjected to the incon-
venience and danger of an inadequate service. As at the
end of this period of public punishment, the company
agreed to the demand of the men, the question naturally
arises: Why was the necessary concession not made in
the beginning, and the whole trouble averted? No one
can say that a rich monopoly is imposed upon by having
to be contented with 60 hours labor per xveek from men
who have the lives of thousands of people in their hands
every day [their hours had been 72 or 84 a week about];
yet that and the recognition of trades-unionism is prac-
tically all that the strikers asked. The promptitude
with which the demands of the men were acceded to is
the best proof of the moral untenableness of the position
taken up by the co., and the right of the public to feel
aggrieved at the partially-executed threat which hung
over their heads all day yesterday.
Then the Telegraph gave the strongest argument
yet advanced for the municipalisation of the har-
bor ferries (not one company, but all); and upon
this argument can be built in its turn the most
powerful one for the establishment of a Greater
Sydney council, if only to handle ferry communi-
cation for the citizens as co-operative owners.
Listen to the voice of the Daily Telegraph :
Here we have a practical example of the unwisdom and
injustice of compelling the people of the northern and
southern portions of the metropolis to remain dependent
on a monopoly for their means of inter-communication.
. . . If Sydney Harbor were Tin Pot Creek, and there
were a handful of residents on each side, the Government
would not have been allowed to wait for a strike on the
part of the water ferrymen to waken it up to that
obligation.
And, further :
Yesterday’s proceedings [the strike and the stoppage
of communication] should prove a valuable object-lesson
to both the Government and the people on the necessity
of hurrying on the bridge, while it also gives rise to the
question of how far in the meantime it is wise to allow
any company a monopoly of ferry traffic without laying
down conditions which would guarantee the people
against being stranded by a strike.
The inconvenience that was caused in 1901 may
be caused again. In that case the management
gave way, after a while ; but there is no guaran-
tee that it will give way at some future time.
Only the few shareholders can compel it to give
way ; the million users of the service have no say
in tliQ matter at all. While this truth was fresh
in the mind of the Telegraph that paper saw the
danger of the monopoly. When the Devil was
sick, the Devil a saint would be. Now when the
Devil is well, and can get home comfortably, the
devil a saint is he.
•
The Remittance Man’s Viewpoint.
The sour contempt for Australia which character-
ises a biggish section of Australian “ Liberalism ”
is seldom betrayed so frankly as it was in Sydney
Evening News the other night. Defence Minis-
ter Pearce happened to express the reasonable
opinion that “ recruiting for the Australian navy
would lead to a more enthusiastic response than
recruiting for the British squadron has done.”
“ Australians,” continued Pearce, “are a mari-
time race. Our mercantile marine compares
favorably with that of any other country, and it
is manned largely, if not wholly, by Australians.”
And he wound up by mentioning that the people
of Australia were preparing enthusiastically to
welcome the nucleus of their navy. Whereat the
News spoke bitterly :
We join issue with the Minister when he says that the
“ Australians are a maritime race.” . . . Unless a great
change has recently taken place, the general impression
is that the Australian merchant service is manned mainly
by foreigners. Some authorities have even put the pro-
portion as high as 75 per cent. . . . We have yet to learn
that the people of Australia take the remotest interest
in the Australian navy business. They were never con-
sulted as to the utility or advisableness of it. From be-
ginning to end it was a political scheme, constructed
more or less to serve party purposes. And if the Aus-
tralian people, as apart from their Parliamentary repre-
sentatives, gave the matter any consideration at all, it
was tc the effect that the “ British Navy was good enough
for them.” A referendum would have proved this.
The News hasn’t even the saving grace of accuracy
to condone its libellous statements. There are no
authorities who put the proportion of foreigners
in the Australian merchant service as high as 75
per cent. If there had been, the News would
have fallen over itself in its haste to quote them.
As a fact, the exact figures on tirs point are not
available. But it is possible to get a fair line on
the subject by a reference to the last N.S.W.
census returns. In 1901 there were 15,318 men
engaged in the sea and river traffic. Of these
only 3636, 0r.24 per cent, were foreigners. In the
10 years that have occurred since then the Aus-
tralian mercantile marine has forged ahead con-
siderably. Australians, nurtured in seaman-
ship by their environment, have gone in
for sailoring in increasing numbers. It is
a lie that they “take no interest in the Aus-
tralian navy business”; it is a lie that they were
never consulted as to the utility or advisableness
of it; and it is a lie that they want to go on de-
pending upon the absurd British squadron in
these waters. Joseph Cook, M.P., an astute
opportunist, needed no referendum to tell him
what sort of naval defence Australia wanted, when
he had seen the wreckage of the Dreadnought
scheme. But Joseph penetrated the nation’s
mind too late ; one of the chief reasons the electors
flung “Liberalism” into the outer darkness
last April was that the party labored under
serious suspicion of being unsound on the local
navy question. But, even if the anti-Australian
charges of theNEWS were true, is it politic or even
decent for an Australian newspaper to level
them ? Here is a sheet which glories in proclaim-
ing its opinion that the people among whom it
makes a comfortable living are.no sailors, even in
the sense, for example, that the Chilenos and
Brazilians are. It considers Australians such un-
imaginative dolts, and such bad patriots, as to
regard in a spirit of dull indifference one of the
most significant events in their national history
to date—an occurrence calculated to inspire the
lowest-grade people with pride. And it charges
the citizens of the Commonwealth with being sc
mean-spirited as to want to go on hiring mer
cenaries at bedrock rates to do their fighting for
them. It is the opinion of Australians which the
baser sort of remittance-man cherishes over his
cadged beer, but which even he has generally the
decency to keep to himself.
♦
Another Stinking Fish Movement.
One of the small aggravations of life :
Melbourne, Thursday.—An advertisement in ail Eng-
lish publication, inviting farm and station hands and
domestics to Australia, formed the subject of a protest at.
the Trades Hall Council to-night. Mr. M'Namara (Rural
Workers) moved that the secretary of the Trades Hall
Council be instructed to draw the attention of the
Minister for External Affairs to the advertisement in
Ldoyd’s Weekly, of October 2, 1910, authorised by the
High Commissioner as to farm hands and domestic ser-
vants, and ask that directions be given that such mis-
leading advertisements be withdrawn until such time as
land is made available and industrial conditions are such
that every worker is assured of a fair and reasonable wage
and his hours of labor.
Mrs. Felstead (Domestics) corroborated Mr. M'Namara
in regard to the domestics. In one recent case, she said,
a girl was offered 4s. a week at a merchant’s house in
North Melbourne, where there were six children. Sub-
sequently the offer was raised to 7s. (Laughter.)
Now it is quite possible that if the merchant was
very drunk he might have made the offer, or
such an offer might be made to a mad girl
with nine previous convictions, but no normal,
sane, capable girl of good character need
accept 7s. nor twice that amount in domestic ser-
vice nowadays. Even now that the wages of the
household Belinda have touched 18s. or 20s. with
board and lodging they are none too high.
But that doesn’t justify anybody throwing, mud
and stinking fish at Australia by representing it
as a place where Mary Ann is actually expected
to toil for less than 7d. a day. As for the remarks
of Mr. M’Namara, it is time the Melbourne
Trades Hall dropped that line of argument. In
such an amazingly empty country as Australia
nothing but bad government can prevent
there being land and employment for swatais
of immigrants. The Labor party has now the
power, by its graduated land-tax, to make land
available in abundance. Also, it has power,
by its control of the tariff, to double.and treble
the demand for artisans. When the Melbourne
Trades Hall, apparently from sheer force of habit,
sends it forth to the world that a country with
a Federal Labor Government at the head of
affairs, and with nearly half its people also
Australia’s Peace Club.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a man the other day who wanted me to join
A Peace Club ; the subscription was some paltry
silver coin;
He said that every Christian man and woman
should be in it,
Because it meant the end of War—War couldn’t
live a minute !
He spoke of the iniquity and shame of human
strife;
He laid a special stress upon the sacredness of
life;
He also said a man was wrong to teach his little
son
To look with clear and steady eye along a little
gun.
He spoke a lot of armaments and battleships and
shells;
I think he said that battleships were simply
armored Hells.
He said : “ Are you aware, sir—does it come
within your ken—
That Europe is an armed camp of twenty million
men ? ”
He said that it was terrible to watch those war-
like Powers;
Their military spirit might infect this land of
ours !
In fact, he had himself observed a warlike spirit
here
Which, if not checked, would blight and curse
this happy hemisphere.
With bitter and upbraiding words he blamed the
Government
For buying three torpedo-boats to guard the Con-
tinent ; „
He said it was a frightful waste, but what made
him feel ill
Was contemplating Labor with a Military Bill !
He quoted Mister Holman ; then he quoted
Tennyson,
And Doctor Watts and Wesley, and some others
dead and gone :
“ The Ape and Tiger—let them die ! ” he added
with a sigh.
And enthusiastically did I echo: “ Let ’em die?”
And then I said : “You’ll pardon me for what I
have to say ;
You state your Peace Ciub project in a most
attractive way ;
Your arguments are cogent, and the reasoning is
clear,
But— most unfortunately— they do not apply
OUT here !
“ Of course, with our four million folk of match-
less hardihood,
We may launch out on a career of Empery and
Blood :
We’ve square miles by the million, but, still, I
wouldn’t bet
Some Jingo Ministry won’t grab a slice of Asia
yet!
“ But I may say the chance is small, the period
remote
When we shall forth to daunt the world with one
torpedo-boat,
Our land may hold Conquistadores such as the
Earth pe’er saw,
But ours seem paper Cortes and Pizarros of the
Jaw !
“ It may be true (as you remark) that Europe is a
camp;
That battleships are armored Hells, but liable to
damp;
And also true that War’s a curse and shedding
blood a sin,
But where you err is preaching here. Go, say it
in Berlin !
“Depart to Tokio, my friend, and tell the Jap-
anese ;
Or seek the lords in London Town who rule the
Seven Seas;
Call in at grim St. Petersburg, or visit gay Paree,
And see how people there receive the yarn you’ve
spun to me !
“ This land of ours is but a boy—a little boy at
that!—
Who, if he played at war with men, would soon be
trodden flat;
He’s holding Mother’s apron-string, for all his
clever talk,
Though, please the pigs, the little chap is learn-
ing fast to walk.
“He’s got no mighty battleships; he s got no
armaments;
So where are all the armaments your blessed Club
resents ?
Four little, feeble million folk are all our Land
can boast—
Five hundred million Asians confront our northern
coast !
“So cease your silly prating—you do the land a
wrong;
Yet, stay ! We need a Peace Club some eight hun-
dred thousand strong
All trained to horse and rifle—to feint, or fight,
or fly—
The whole eight hundred thousand prepared to do
or die !
When we possess that kind of Club, and half a
hundred ships,
Some powder mills and foundries, and great docks
and building-slips,
You needn’t go about deploring War’s un-Christian
code,
For here the Dove of Peace will find a permanent
abode ! ”
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Write to me, love, with CALDWELL’S
INK
No hand of time its mark effaces,
’Twixt loving hearts it forms a link
Useful in breach of promise cases.
Brought to Bay-
Are those enemies of civilisation, indigestion and
dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed ; 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving: Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street: Melbourne—266 Collins
Street: Brisbane —93-95 Queen Street: Adelaide—
Gawler Place ; Perth —Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lilyof the
Valley
Natural.
Nig'ht*
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes char m
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature arid
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
¥
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Ktoresi
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ruled by State Labor Governments, is unfit
for white men or women to come to, it gladdens
the heart of Fat and makes the Upper House
rejoice. And the men who run the Ancient Eel
party cut out the statement, and send it abroad
with the cheery comment: “ See what comes of
having a Labor Ministry in office ! ”
- ♦
It was reported lately that Onslow, M.L.A. for
Waverley (N.S.W.), had “entertained 500 mem-
bers of his election committee to an all-day launch
party. ” It is not easy to estimate the exact cost
of such ashivoo; it might be anything from £lOO
to £250 or £3OO. The law lays it down that no
candidate shall spend more than £lOO on
electioneering. Technically, as the elections are
over, Onslow is within his rights in thus using
his wealth. Judged from any other standpoint,
his performance is as reprehensible as was that of
the East Sydney “ Liberal ” ladies who, within a
few weeks of last Federal polling-day, inaugurated
a series of “At Homes,” where as many as 700
women at a time were urged by means of
free provender and entertainment to support
Sammy Lees. The object Parliament had
in view when it decided to limit candi-
dates’ expenses was to prevent rich citi-
zens having an undue pull over poor ones.
It is not a question, so far as the principle is con-
cerned, eitlier of dates or of the nature of
the valuable consideration. A politician can do
as much by the judicious expenditure of a few
hundred pounds 12 months before an election as
he can by outlaying the money within a week of
polling day. And there is little or no difference
between encouraging electors to rally to one’s
standard by means of tea, beer or £5 notes. In
the case under review, nothing is more likely to
heIpONSLOW withacertain large class, when henext
stands for Waverley, than the wide dissemination
of the news that after the previous struggle he
stood by those who had stood by him. It is
almost certain that his present committee of 500
earnest workers will thus swell to 1000 or more,
the number of people whose political activities are
stirred by the prospect of payment being depress-
ingly large. And the chances of Onslow’s
opponent, whether “Liberal” or Labor,
will be correspondingly thin. In amending
the State Electoral Act McGowjcn should
scotch this abuse by classing as bribery
any entertainments given by a candidate to his
political supporters as such, whether the same
occurs before or after the election campaign
proper. And if the blackmailing tactics of cricket,
swimming and other clubs in regard to political
candidates were also descended upon a lot of
covert bribery would be checked, and much bene-
fit would be done to the self-respect of the
community.
“ The Gentle Revolutionist ” ventures this:—
The futility of the Address-in-Reply was exposed re-
cently, when the Australian Parliament assembled after the
April elections. The time-ridiculed Address to the G.-G.
was passed, but as the G.-G. was away or busy or tired or
something, it wasn’t until the end of October that Prime
Minister Fisher ran across him. When he did happen to
meet the G.-G., the P.M. remembered the old Address
and handed it over. By that time the Legislature had
put in five months’solid graft, quite unconcerned as to
what Dudley thought of its loyalty, etc. If J. T. S.
McGowen wishes to show his anxiety to keep ahead of the
procession he can’t do better than hereafter slay the
Address-in-Reply fatally dead.
He has plenty of precedent; for when that
eminent constitutionalist, Irvine, of Victoria,
met Parliament during the railway strike, he
didn’t worry aboutan Address—or an Address-in-
Reply. Fat was anxious to do things just then;
wherefore it passed the flummery and just bogged
in.
4,
“The Old Soldier”: The Australian Perma-
nent Artillery suffers from a chronic inability to
keep up its strength. Soldiers are enlisted for
five years ; but there are many of them who don’t
stay the full term. In short, they desert; and
the same applies to every force on earth that is
recruited by voluntary enlistment. The British
army in 1909 lost 4766 men by desertion, or nearly
2 per cent, of its strength. The French “ Foreign
Legion” is as bad, and the United States army is
worse. The latter is supposed to be about 86,000
strong ; and there were nearly 5000 desertions
from it during the last fiscal year. On the other
hand, there are no desertions to speak of from the
great national European armies of France,
Germany and Austria. The youngster of 20,
who is called on to take his place in the
ranks, does so quietly, puts in his two or
three years, and there is the end of it; and some
40,000 young Germans every year enlist before the
proper time has come. In France and Germany
the army is the idol of the nation, because
the army, to all intents and purposes, is
the nation. A deserter must put up with
more than the prospect of punishment; he has to
endure the contempt of his fellows as a shirker
and a bad citizen. In England, on the contrary,
the private soldier is, except during the critical
stages of a big war, a contemptible person. The
fact that he is in the army is a sort of patent of
infamy ; it is assumed that he wouldn’t be there
if he could follow any honorable calling. And,
broadly, the same sentiment prevails here. Uni-
versal service, then, is one way to prevent deser-
tion. The other is better pay. For years the
Permanent Artilleryman has been treated finan-
cially like his British brother-in-arms. He has
been paid as if he were on a level with the illite-
rate British soldier of 100 years ago. The time
has come to change all that If Australia jibs at
straight-out universal service, it must pay its
voluntary soldiers well or expect them to bolt in
the direction of the first living wage that offers.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” gives the his-
torical hangman a last word :
Re the late lamented Nosey Bob and pubs(B. 10/11/’10).
The deceased hangman did like his pub—several of them,
in fact. In the early part of his career, when Sheriff
Cowper employed him as a sweeper about the Supreme
Court in King-street, he divided his favors between the
three pubs opposite the courthouse. When the sheriff
removed him to Darlinghurst as a sort of “scullery
maid ” at the courthouse and as groom to himself, Bob
gave his favors to Ryan’s Hotel, on the corner of Bourke
and Oxford streets. On his way home to his cottage at
Bondi, Howard invariably called at Ned Punch’s Tea
Gardens Hotel for his “final.” Someone drew Ned’s
attention to “ the hangman,” and suggested that special
vessels should be set apart for him. Ned agreed. After
a time Bob noticed the arrangement, took umbrage, and
gave the Tea Gardens the cold shoulder. Howard, in
spite of his job, was a charitable man, who frequently
left money at “ the gate ” to relieve the distressed wives
of prisoners.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COVUNG WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “Salvation Nell.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
ijYCeum Spencer’s Pictures
Olympia “Squatter’s Daughter” Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Theatre “ The Dollar Princess.”
Her Majesty’s “ Harbor Lights.”
Royal “ The Arcadians.”
King’s “The Worst Woman in London.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Jesters.
Glaciariu.m Tails’ Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kilda.. The Follies Comedy Co.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
+— •
Chronology has given it up as a bad job
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and all attempts to
remember when “ Miss Gibbs ” first started have
been abandoned. The last fixed date broke its
back some weeks ago, and was left perishing on
the rim of the horizon, out where Time and Space
drink affably together at the pub which is kept by
Futurity—the place where the coach starts for
Chaos with the Fourth Dimension on the box.
The lady, in fact, has become a feature of history.
She was around, in all probability, when Hardi-
canute died of too much drink standing up; and
when Henry I. died of too much fish lying down ;
and when John died cursing, through mixing
too many bags of fruit with too much ale;
and when George I. passed out through devouring
an excess of watermelon on an aged German
stomach. And years and years hence, when the
Stuarts and Guelphs are forgotten and the House
of Jobson rules the last fragment of the British
Empire at Liverpool, she may still be on deck.
At all events, she may so far as this paper is con-
cerned. It has no objection to offer.
“REVENGE” AT
SYDNEY
PALACE.
The inane
lackey (Syd-
ney De Vine).
The naughty Prince Orloff
(Richard Bell-airs).
All drama is uncertain ; but, on the
whole, it seems that religious drama is a shade
less uncertain than other kinds—especially reli-
gious leg-drama like “The Sign of the Cross.”
“Salvation Nell,” which has lit the torch of piety
at Sydney Royal, lacks the leg element, but it
gets on very well all the same—much better than
its literary merits would suggest. It travels,on
its raw-meat holiness, its hobnailed or blucher
variety of devotion, and its death’s-head piety.
It fights the good fight with a beer pot for
a weapon, and when the dust and broken
glass and spilt rum of battle have cleared
away, one finds that Sin has been knocked
headlong into the spittoon, and that Vice has
fallen over the cellar flap and broken its neck.
This kind of thing takes so strongly that the
rampant Salvation lass shows no sign of departure
so far. The management hasn’t even announced
her last 50 nights.
* * *
In these days, when the Law takes off its
helmet and rushes to the rescue if a citizen so
much as heaves a small-sized cat through the win-
dow of a neighbor whose daughter pierces the
midnight with shriekful remarks concerning
“ The Holy City ” or “ Yip-i-addy-i-ay,” it is a
great consolation to spend an evening at a place
where mutilation and sudden death are not
only tolerated but encouraged. Such a place is
the Sydney Palace, where members of the Hamil-
.ton-Max well co. are working “Revenge” for all
they (or the public) are worth. Friday night will
be the last opportunity of learning the most up-
to-date method of blinding a person (apart from
issuing a building-society’s balance-sheet), and
the final chance of picking up the fine points in
dividing a jugular vein.
* * * *
On Saturday night, at the Palace, the
friends of Maggie Moore and Harry Roberts
are invited to meet them between the hours of
8 p.m. and 11 p.m., when the sensational drama.
“ The Shadows of a Great City,” will be pro-
duced. Invitations may be obtained atElvy’sor
the theatre, at the usual rates.
** * *
“Jones,” with his tail streaming in the
wind, is to depart from Sydney Criterion on
Friday night, and on Saturday the roar of “The
Winning Ticket” will supervene. The scene is
laid in Melbourne at Cup-time, and there is much
horse in the play, also bookies, punters, spielers,
magsmen, policemen, two-uppers, and the other
furnishings that drive Judkins to distraction.
Over 200 people are to take part in the proceed-
ings, and, considering the size of the premises,
the one great danger seems to be the possible
slopping over of the play into the orchestra. And
when a play of this size slops it does slop.
The Marbas couple, who make a fairly
successful mixture of fun and tumbling, present
the revolution of the week at Sydney Tivoli. In
bygone times, the acrobat, on accomplishing a
somersault, posed as if he had just freed a nation
from slavery, and waited for his meed of applause.
The public, nowadays, refuses to regard a somer-
sault solemnly ; so the acrobat has to knead some
humor into his performance, or eLe get out of the
business and open a ham and beef shop. Some-
times the humor is a bit thin ; but it, at any rate,
acts as a signboard of frivolity and excuses the
onlooker from the dreadful strain of trying to
look thunderstruck at every daring hand-spring.
The incurably serious performers, like the lady
top-boot dancer and the bearded gentleman in
silk knee-breeches, whose life work was to step-
dance in roller skates on an elevated plat-
form, are now professionally extinct. Dan, the
Inebriated Hound, will remain the big drawing
item of the bill only until Saturday ; the docu-
ment, however, will continue to bear the names of
Larry Lewis. Violet Stockelle, the Dancing
Gilberts, Howard and Foy, and Fanny Powers.
** * *
The special features of West’s Pictures at
Sydney Glaciarium this week are “Native Lion
Hunting,” a film which has the distinction of
being absolutely true, taken at a real hunting: and
killing of the king of beasts ; and the building
and launching of the Olympic. The Olympic is,
of course, the world’s boss mammoth steamer up
to date—the great ocean flier that is to
lick creation and the Germans. Ye ancient
story of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” taken by
the Vitascope people in the actual land of
the story, has all the excellence of local color ; but
isn’t it time dead Uncle Tom and deceased little
Eva were buried? That story was well-written ;
but it caused an awful lot of good white man’s
blood to be shed, for, without a doubt, it was one
of the influences that helped to rip the United
States in two, like a rag. Foolshead, the ever-
green, has at last found his real vocation, and
becomes a fisherman, with the. usual disastrous
results.
** * *
Spencer’s Theatrescope at Sydney Lyceum
is also parading the woes of Uncle Tom, accom-
panied by a grand pipe-organ. There are 2500 ft.
of it—the film, not the organ—and that numerous
class that loves to weep over the woes of
people across the water, while resting from
the exertion of castigating the wife or chil-
dren, will have a real good time. A
dainty picture-story is that branded “A Summer
Idyll”; an exciting one is a drama of the Wild
West; and the most humorous is a comedy en-
titled “The Stronger Sex.” which proves, of
course, that the sex that does the bossing and
bullying is the weaker one. It was ever thus, and
we all know it; but Spencer’s film drives home
the argument with a vim that may yet lead to re-
volution, and do something to bringdown-trodden
man into his own again.
** * *
The Amateur Orchestral Society’s star
composition at its fourth concert last week was
the symphonic poem by Marechal, with the
Arabian warrior-poet Antar as name-giver and
hero. Antar’s mother was a negro slave, and the
Arab officer-father would seem to have neglected
his offspring during the youth’s early years.
Whilestill a slave he fell in love with his cousin
Abla, and won the lady. The quantity of “history”
in prose and verse written around the sixth cen-
tury hero is enormous. Possibly he wrote much
of it himself. That he was the author of one of
the poems hung in the Kaaba, in the great mosque
at Mecca, is not disputed. Consequently, he
must have found ways to improve his neglected
education and to get into the desert army.
His song and his sword filled the coun-
try with their fame, and Sydney took kindly
to his symphonic presentment at last week’s
concert. The usual desert pictures were
dragged in out of the sand—caravans, immense
solitude, visions of the houri-like Abla, dances
and battle. Messrs. Bryce Carter, Staell and C.
Helleman did finished work in other items on the
programme.
** * *
Miss May Summerbelle will break a long
musical silence with a concert at St. James’s
Hall, Sydney, on Monday, Nov. 28. A dis-
tinguished coterie of artists will help to make the
programme a worthy one—-Mrs. Slapoffski and
Messrs. L- Campbell, Staell, Syd McDonald,
Bryce Carter and W. Greives. Mr. Harold
Whittle will be accompanist, and Miss Summer-
belle’s “ Ave Maria” will be sung by Mr.
McDonald, with an obligato—the ’cello by Mr.
Carter, violin by Mr. Greives, and the composer
herself at the piano. Miss Beatrice Day has also
promised to lend a helping voice and recite a
piece.
“ WHAT HAPPENED TO
JONES,” AT SYD-
NEY CRI.
“ Bishop” Jones
(Georye Willoughby),
a gay deceiver,
and Professor
Goodly (David
Janies), his un-
willing accomplice.
Many things of less than mighty import
are happening at the Melbourne theatres this
week. On'p thing is a single consecutive perform-
ance of “The Geisha” by Jennie Brenan’spupils,
whose ages, the advt. states, range from four to
14. This is to be a matinee show at the Princess’s,
and the overture will start almost as soon as the
present issue of Thk Bulletin is exposed for sale,
This (Thursday) and to-morrow evenings will be
the last of “ A Knight for a Day,” and on Satur-
day comes a revival of “The Dollar Princess,”
formerly of Her Majesty’s. A somewhat altered
cast will include Florence Young.
At Her Majesty’s the picturesque career
of “The Whip” closes to-morrow, and then the
company that made a first appearance in the new
hippodrama 10 weeks ago will revive the ancient
glories of “ Harbor Lights.” Whereas the spec-
tacular effects in “ The Whip ” are mainly sport-
ing, and the interest is wholly horsey, the interest
in “ Harbor Lights ” is nautical and the scenery
is mostly marine. So the new J. C. W. co. may
be described as the Horse Marines.
“THE SHADOWS
OF A GREAT
CITY,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
E. B. Russell as
Abe Nathan,
the Pawn-
broker.
Maggie Moore as
Biddy Roonan
(a warm-hearted,
Irishivoman).
Further changes
from the ordinary
course of things are
promised at the
King’s. “Shadows
of a Great City ” has
just passed out, and for
to night (Thursday) and
to-morrow the amateurs
who recently played “Dorothy” at the Princess’s
will repeat their respectable effort at the Russell-
street house by arrangement with the manage-
ment thereof. On Saturday the new Andersonian
co. makes a first appearance at the King’s ; and
Miss Harrie Ireland, Frank Gerald, Dalgleish,
Stanford, Sweeney and the rest of them will pre-
sent “The Worst Woman in London,” with all
her crimes thick upon her. Before the season
ends Gerald is to have a chance to star as Dick
Turpin, or some such dreadful person, in a drama-
tisation of his Own.
*# * *
Touching “The Arcadians” at Melbourne
Royal, the ad vt. remarks that it is not a revival, but
a survival, which is rather neat on the ad.’s part.
The show seemingly is running as vigorously as
in the weeks of yore. It has got its second wind,
and looks capable of lasting to the threshold of
Christmas if required. Everybody this time per-
ceives the less obtrusive jokes which formerly
passed unnoticed by most people, and the charm-
ing first act goes for all it is worth. Last
Saturday the new dancer—Chistie Mulniah —
was sufficiently recovered from her first-night
accident to appear again ; but the result was not
astounding. Looking at her from an athletic
point of view, one would reckon Miss Chistie to
be short of work and out of condition. She is a
well-educated of the robust auburn type,
and at present she lacks the spring and suppleness
of slimmer girls. In a leaping competition she
would not have the proverbial “ earthly ” against
little Maggie Dickinson, the airy auburn damsel
who declines an offer of Doody’s hand in matri-
mony.
At the Opera House the braw Scottish
accent of Neil Kenyon will lend an air of humor
to his innocuous patter for another nicht or twa..
Later arrivals are Alexander Prince, a very good
performer on a mighty fine concertina, and The
Blessings, a pair of athletes whose apparel does
not proclaim their “turn.” The agile lightweight
man in dress suit and the Junpesque lady in
an abbreviated bodice and skirt of many colors
are Blessings in disguise, as it were. The
novelty of their performance is in the sex
and beauty of the partner, who practically
carries it through. Mrs. Blessing, as a rule,
stands on her feet whilst Mr. B. stands on her
head, upside down or otherwise. When their two
heads nestle closely together the gentleman’s feet
are in the air, and the lady walks about as though
he didn’t matter. Also, she supports him on one
tootsie in a manner equally graffeful and unusual.
Yeamans Titus and other people are helping to
keep the Rickards's bill above the average.
# ■* * *
On Saturday afternoon the Vic. Orchestra
and the Festival Choir will deal with Beethoven’s
Choral Symphony (Fred Beard conducting) at the
Town Hall. The Symphony has not been given
in its entirety since the days of Cowen and the
Melb. Exhibition Orchestra. Talking of the
Exhibition, it is just now a woeful building, lead-
ing to the place where the Maori Village holds
forth.


JERDAN’S, the big Cinematograph peopleat
393 George Street, Sydney, have juat got out
a Catalogue for Picture Showmen that’s just it.
If you’ve leanings that way you’d better write for
a copy. It’s free.*
A GOOD HAIR TONIC.
An excellent hair tonic that is unequalled for
keeping the scalp in a healthy condition, destroy-
ing dandruff and making the hair grow, is made
by dissolving Menthol Crystals in 3 ounces
Bay Rum, and then adding 1 ounce Lavona do
Cornposee (Smith’s). Let it stand for half an
hour and it is then ready for use. Rubbed well
into the scalp with the finger tips once or twice a
day this tonic will be found to give surprising
benefit, scalp itching and irritation disappearing
almost immediately on applying, A very pleasant
scent is imparted by adding teaspoonful of
French Fon Fleur perfume. This prescription
contains no dye, and can be prepared by any
chemist, or you may procure the ingredients and
mix them yourself at home.*
Taits’ programme, at the Melbourne Glaci-
arium, is loaded over the Plimsoll with
films. And nearly all have the fury of “Mrs.
Cannon is Warm,” which is first cousin to Chaos,
and second cousin to a geyser or a gale. “Muggsy
Becomes a Hero’’ is, however, good comedy-
drama of comparative quiet. On the serious side,
“A Row on the Lakes of the Four Cantons
supplies some pretty Switzer scenes ; whilst “ The
Great Train Hold-Up” supplies the programme
with the necessary thrill.
#* * *
“Beatrix of Teuda,” at Spencer’s Mel-
bourne Olympia, is an uncommon dish for roman-
tic palates. The story is mediaeval and Milanese,
and has a heart throb or a thrill in every foot of
it. The things to be seen “At the Doors of
Italy” are some bits of Iselle and the Simplon
Pass; whilst the row that occurs “Under
Western Skies ” is about that pack of caprices
known as Woman. The film of the Portuguese
fracas mainly affords pictures of gleeful, dirty-
lookihg soldiers; wherefore the suspicion arises
that Lisbon recently revolted with a maximum of
joy and a minimum of soap.
** * *
The Follies are still appearing at St.
Kilda (Melb.), though the weather is trying to
suppress them. On Saturday the sky wept so
hard that their evening show had to be aban-
doned. Despite such discouragements, the Follies
are enduring the Conditions with heroic fortitude.
Furthermore, they are maintaining their bright-
ness—especially Jimmy Campbell, the leader of
the team. Jimmy is a merry customer who will
be delightful on sultry evenings. Even if he says
nothing remarkable, his talk will be a refreshing
draught.
** # *
The “Besses” are moving all round
Adelaide, giving concerts in various “ovals.”
The new Shakspeare Theatre is giving Saturday-
afternoon performances of “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” and such things. The Tivoli still relies
on Judge Kelly»ahd his crop of criminals, includ-
ing the one who “ threatened to chase me so far,
Judge, that it would cost Bdols. to send me a post-
card.” The rest is concerts, and strawberry fetes,
and picture shows, and “Dandies,” “Follies”
and “Pierrots”—all innumerable. Adelaide has
the amusement-liabit pretty strongly now, since
the electric cars have made movement in and out
of town speedy.
The' Victorian Assembly will never be
wholly dull while it houses Jimmy McLachlan,
of Sale. His latest idea—Jimmy had heard that
there is crime in Melbourne streets —is that a
couple of hundred soldiers should patrol the town
at night. The idea was broken off by an outburst
of laughter, which probably stopped him from ex-
plaining that what he meant was that they should
prowl about the beats and wake up the police in
time for breakfast.
A Westralian miner, standing on the kerb-
stone in Bourke-street, Melbourne, the other
night, was the victim of a new method of “assault
with intent,” Three young fellows came along,
and one of them opened a conversation with the
miner. They came to words, then to blows, then
to a clinch. The assaulted party recovered from
the clinch to discover that his assailant had
hopped off with a gold watch, chain, locket,
sovereign purse and ass gold piece. Moral : If
an unaccountable adversary smites you on the
right cheek, kick hard and yell for the police.
“Priscilla Prink,” on a natural-history
student who tried to tell the bird by its feathers:—
An incident at a recent big official function recalls an
old story that hitherto has not overcome its blushes suf-
ficiently to hold up its head in print. When Constable
A 29 took up his station at the fete in Government House
Grounds, his orders had been impressed on his mind with
the indelible stamp of the inspector’s persistency. Said
that martinet for the tenth time: “ When their Excel-
lencies arrive keep a clear passage. Let nobody break
the lines.” Constable A 29 made no error. He had just
got the crowd back when two over-stylish young women
whirled along and endeavored to pass him. “ Stand
back!” said Constable A 29. “How dare you speak like
that to us?” shrilled Haughty Feathers No. 1, while No.
2 preened herself and shook her ostrich-tail in rage.
Constable A 29 took no notice. He was used to the rage
and indignation of ladies with ostrich feathers, and he
knew how to deal with them if the necessity was pressing.
“Do you hear?” cried Plume Bearer No. 2. “Let us
pass.” “Look here,” said Constable A 29, quietly, “ the
two of yez had better get a move on out of it. ’Tis
no place for you.” Naturally, the ladies lost their
heads, and made a scene, which confirmed Constable
A 29 in his suspicions, and led him, when his patience
was frayed out, to say bluntly that they could
rely upon his undying enmity. When the decorated
young women recovered their breath they rushed home
and threw themselves on the bosom of their male parent,
who happened to be- the Police Commissioner. What
they told him Ido not know ; but when Constable A 29
was questioned, without any names being given, this is
what he told the Commissioner :“ Yes, sor, an’if they
weren’t two of ’em, they were dressed loike ’em.” The
Commissioner let the matter drop just there.
“ R.B.’s ” cut of red meat:—
Some members of a Scotch Agricultural Commission
have been making remarks about our muddled politics
and poor advertising. No matter what Australian poli-
tics are, they are bound to look muddled to anybody 7
from the country that contains the drunkenest city in
the world. It was in Glasgow 7 that I heard applauded
political utterances which would not have deceived a
child in Australia. A nice young thing named Gilbert
Parker spoke on the Unionist end of the peculiarly
muddled-up politics of Britain, and the allegedly hard-
headed Scotsman applauded him when he remarked that
his party’s programme was made up of such things as
“ peace, progress and prosperity.” And a pink prattler
like Rosebery is acclaimed in the country that sends men
out to Australia to call our very business-like politics
“muddled.” The same Agricultural Commission re-
marked that, because “Australia does not advertise
and Canada does, Australia is so much the
worse off.” Canada has advertised—mostly to sell
the Canadian Pacific Railway 7 Co.’s land —and has
got such quantity in immigration that the quality
has never been considered. So in Winnipeg news-
papers to-day y 7 ou see in the Labor advts. : “No
Englishmen need apply.” Canada ! Canada is as rotten
as the U.S. and worse, because the U.S. does occasionally
get a clean-up, but Canada never. Australia has -made
its great natural selection of people in two ways—first,
by the big prizes of the gold discoveries calling the ad ven-
turers of the earth j secondly, by the distance frighten-
ing the tenderfoot and the weakling. The people who
were selected when a voyage to Australia was in a
windjammer round the Cape were men ; plenty
of the more recent arrivals—the people who came
out in a floating hotel via Suez—were loud bum-
mers. They put back the clock of Australian nationhood
with loud screams of “Empire” and a filthy struggling
aiid caballing for titles. And these Australians, born of
the women who faced 100-day and 150-day voyages in
wind-jammers, are so much the superiors of the majority
of the later arrivals and of the people who are coming
now that the matter doesn’t seem to require argument. ■
The Australians born of the adventurers who rushed Vic-
toria are world-beaters ; small credit to them either, con-
sidering their sires and dams, and the three big meat-
feeds a day they had while they were growing, and a big,
open continent to breathe in. And people of that sort
don’t muddle their politics.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Inspired by a boomsome season in the West, one of the
Asche-Brayton mummers wrote a good Australian letter
to the Stage, in London. He said this, among other
things :—“ Perth, perhaps, more than any of the other
centres we have visited, presents brilliant prospects of
future prosperity, and it would be well for a few hundred
young aspiring actors in London and the provinces to
shake off the joke of inauspicious star-gazing, and make
their way out here and get on the land, the railways or the
mines. Workers are all that are required out here, and
all those not tied to mother’s apron strings, or not having
a wife and family immediately' dependent on them,
should pack up their props and make for these
fair fields. If they have to handle a shovel or
ply a pick they will be looked upon as gentle-
men as long as they behave as such. Now, my
actor brethren, get the limelight out of your eyes, light
your pipes with your press notices, cast the shadows of
an obscure ‘future’ from you, and strike out for this
land of sun and freedom.” Unfortunately the able-bodied
unemployed mummers in Britain are as impervious to
wise advice as they who loaf and have their being in this
“ land of sun and freedom.” To many a mummer whin-
ing for assistance J. C. Williamson has said, “ Why not
look for other work ?” And when the fatuous pro. mur-
murs, “ Once an actah, always an actah, you know ! ”
J.C.W. replies, “But, my boy, you’re not an actor.”
Which blunt statement of fact merely confirms the im-
portunate one in his belief that the managers have con-
spired to kerrush him.
The most remarkable thing about the Andersonian
movement in local bellowdrama is that it was so long de-
layed. Twenty years ago, wheri the theatre-going public
of Melbourne was mostly British-born, and the A.N.A.
was in its childhood, Alfred Dampier scored his principal
business successes with dramas of Australian interest.
In collaboration with Garnet Walch he made a play
out of Boldrewood’s “Robbery Under Arms.” That
was in 1890, and previously he had been aided by one
Wrangham, his business manager, in the manufacture of
a bellowdrama called “ Marvellous Melbourne,” which,
although faked-up from an English shocker, was con-
sistently local in tone and color. It had a long
run at the Alexandra Theatre, and Dampier made some
thousands of pounds by it. Evidently the old kind of
imported drama put into a local setting was what a lot of
people had been looking for. “ Marvellous Melbourne ”
supplied a want, but was not sufficiently bright to create
a loud demand for more stuff of the same character.
Hence, for the next 15 years or so, the possibilities of
Australian bellowdrama were not fully tested; the ex-
periments in that way were only trifling. Yet all the
while the want was growing bigger ; and the reef which
Dampier had struck with “ Marvellous Melbourne ” was a
lot thicker and nearer the surface when Anderson struck
it with “The Squatter's Daughter.” (
“ Wally” Bastin, who for many years has been recog-
nised as the best M.L. amateur actor of strong “ charac-
ter” parts, has thrown up commercial life to join George
Musgrove. He goes on tour with Nellie Stewart as
Percival, the provincial actor in “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury’’—played by Alfred Tapping during the Sydney
season.
Clarke and Meynell’s other comic opera co. is beginning
to arrive. Albert Vernon, the musical director, and
George Winn, the manager for “ The Gay Gordons,” have
just come to hand, and Mevnell is bringing a crowd of
mummer-principals by the Orvieto. Frank Lincoln and
Florence Imeson seem to be the best known of the “Gay
Gordons.” The man has been identified with several of
Seymour Hicks’s parts; and the lady has scored many
successes and much advt. in S’Africa, where she was
alleged to have shot a lion. The story of how Florence
slew the roaring lion with her second bullet will loom
large in her Australian press interviews.
Hugh Ward, the new member of the J. C. Williamson
firm, has been giving his views in Perth on the Australian
chances of the intellectual drama, as represented by Ber-
nard Shaw and others. Ward has always had ambitions
to stage better stuff than comedy, farce and indifferent
drama. And while he has too much sense to go broke on
his stage patriotism, he is content to lose a little money
now and then for the benefit of a smaller section of the
public whose pleasure is not tied to the tail-end of a
grotesque song and dance, and whose enjoyment Can be
inflamed without falling downstairs carrying an armful
of crockery. “There is such a thing as art for
art’s sake,” he is fond of remarking, “and in
my own way I endeavor to bring it home to
the public by sandwiching in for short seasons
serious efforts like ‘ The Fencing Master,’ or Carton’s de-
lightful satirical comedy, ‘Mr. Hopkinson.’” To an
interviewer at Perth, the other day, he expressed the
opinion that plays like Shaw’s “Man and Superman,”
with Granville Barker and Lillah McCarthy, “Major
Barbara,” or even “Caesar and Cleopatra,” *if Forbes
Robertson and his wife were available, would draw large
audiences. “ There is, too,” he said, “ Galsworthy’s
latest, ‘ Justice,’a singularly virile and vivid work.” So
he talks of “ special matinCes—say, once a week —on the
lines adopted by the Court Theatre, in London, in the
days of the Vedrenne-Barker combination.” All of which
may be a hint of what is to happen later on.
A small crate of tiny yellow chickens was handed up
to an actress in Melbourne the other evening. The crate
was smothered in flowers, and the nature of the gift was
not. recognised by the audience. It used to be eggs.
Now its chickens. How long before the poor pro may
expect a roast fowl?
The Ballarat Choral Union thinks of sending a choir to
England, and wants the Australian Government “ to assist
such an international project, because a choir of 70 voices
might-prove an excellent advertisement for Australia.” It
might—it might. So might the giant gooseberry and
the white Wyandotte egg as large as the head of a fresh-
laid Lord Mayor. But the line must be drawn somewhere.
A great Peace Promoter is. Sport. If all
the nations played cricket and sought wise inspir-
ation from D.C.L. Wisdom, the racial competitive
spirit would find satisfaction in Test matches.
Cricket halls instead of cannon balls, and the
multitude exercising the sportsman’s restraint
instead of battle fury. Sport in the cause of’ peace
is the greatest ally of D.C.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
We are indebted to the “ Robur” Tea Co. for a
glimpse of the Sydney and Melbourne National Galleries
each year. The pictures selected for its calendars this
year are, if anything, more charmingthan any previously
issued, the color printing is perfect, and the description
on the back of each calendar most interesting. We have
always heard the tea trade'spoken of as one that depends
entirely upon taste. Well, all we can say 7 is that if the tea
taster of the “ R ibur” Tea Co. shows the Same refine-
ment in selecting his tea leaf as the co.’s advertising man
does the subjects for his advertisement, there is no need
to wonder why the company does such a big tea business
as we are told it does.*
During his farewell season at the Palace in Sydney
at Christmas, Hugh Ward will produce a musical play r
new to Australia, “ Glittering Gloria,” by Hugh Morton,
author of “The Belle of New' York.”
“Melb”: Re the hippopotamus and its show use.
Sells’ circus had two; they' came out of the tank and
walked round. Cooper and Bailey’s had a “ sell.” They
announced: “Behemoth! On earth there is not his like.
See Book of Job.” It proved to be a little agouti, or
river-hog, from S’America.
“ Columbus ” : Broadhurst, the author of that cheerful
trifle, “ What Happened to Jones,” left at least one fair-
sized cavity' in the plot—or possibly the cavity was made
by the first company that handled it, and has been le-
peated by' all subsequent ones. The fault is in respect to
two suits of clobber. When Jones, the bustling bagman
who is being pursued by a wild policeman, bursts into
the residence of Professor Goodly and commandeers the
new garments of the homeward-bound cleric as a dis-
guise, the black suit fits him so well that the audience
murmurs admiringly. Yet, towards the end of the farce,
when the undressed cleric—whose only suit has been
taken away and stuffed into the piano—assumes the loud
bagman’s clothes hurriedly discarded by Jones in the first
act, he totters stiffly about as if he had been packed into
it bv hydraulic pressure. I daresay this point, has been
noticed before, and that I am like the excited individual
who claimed to have discovered the plain and obvious
G.P.O. The hole, however, is almost large enough to
hold the G.P.0., and may bear discovering again.
Charles Barnold, the trainer of Dan the Drunken Dog
and the rest of the clever animals now at Sydney' Tivoli,
has received a valuable advt. from the hands of Pro-
fessor Anderson Stuart, of Sydney University. It con-
sists of the silver medal of the Animals Protection
Society', recently awarded him for his gentle training
methods. Barnold’s animals rush with joyous confidence
through their act as if they had never heard the crack of
a whip ; consequently, the onlooker has the comfortable
feeling that he is not witnessing the result of months or
years of cruel drilling, but the triumph of much skilful
coaxing and prompting. The usual performing animal,
by his public shrinkings, miserably advertises the fact
that he has been educated with considerable severity.
Barnold’s friends, on the contrary, are so much at their
ease that you are impatient togive a welcome to the man
who has made such merry players of them.
“ U.S.”: Manager-Author Belasco is ast rangely inter-
esting personage. In the upper part of the fagade of his
New York theatre are his apartments—half a dozen rooms
which are the most entrancing in America, through his
passion for collecting, backed by practically unlimited
wealth. He estimates having spent £40,000 on those
rooms. Of course, it is virtually capital, like diamond
rings. He onl.v has to auction his collection if he wants
his money back, or more. Here is a sample of his
methods. In Paris he saw a peculiar little sign, an iron-
work rampant lion, outside a cafb, past which Marie
Antoinette, Madame Roland, Danton and Robespierre
were borne on their tumbrils to the guillotine. He
reflected that their eyes would have met this sign.
So he bought it, and it hangs over his writing table.
That is a key to the spirit that animated him in
forming his unique collection. Many hours would be
exhausted in describing the associations of each of the
myriad of small articles, gathered in England, France,
Germany and everywhere, reflecting phases of Western
and Oriental history. No private individual has so many
relics of Napoleon. Belasco is a handsome, pale, clean-
shaven man, of rather feminine appearance, like
Boothby’s idea of Dr. Nikola. He obtains entire solitude
in his study. The approach to the suite is by a lift from
the stage door. He has half a dozen secretaries at work
in an ante-room. Peculiar is his mode of composing
plays. He does not write them. He has two lady type-
writers, sitting side by side. To one he dictates the dia-
logue, and to the other the business.
“N.”: Housman|is the London dramatist whose play 7,
referring to George IV., and accepted by a manager, was
refused a license by the Chamberlain. That official has
licensed Housman’s version of the “ Lysistrata,” of Aris-
tophanes, now being performed in Miss Kingston’s new
Little Theatre, London. Now, every student knows
that the “ Lysistrata” is about the most licentious play
ever written. Of course, it is doctored up for modern
London, and the critics agree that it is most amazingly
harmless —but a thing is quite likely to be more detri-
mental through being made harmless, as they' call it.
LEONARD FRANCIS , OF IPSWICH,
Conductor of Queensland's Champion Choir.
“Early Door”: I am going to the theatre just as
seldom as possible this summer. It is not that I m short
of money ; I Can still afford to pay for a reserved seat—
even at the increased rates. It isn’t because I think the
drama is going to the dogs ; I reckon it is as far from the
kennels to-day as ever it was. I am not going to have
any more blue crosses put on the box plans simply
because I am tired of carrying home wild head-
aches brought on by sitting for extended periods in
the pea-soup atmosphere of our playhouses. In the
summer months, the prospect of having to remain forabout
two-and-a-half hours in a stuffy' theatre puts me off the
brightest show going. Usually the end of October finds
me solemnly swearing off the box office ; after November
1, only the shout of Friendship will drag me into a
theatre ; and, before I go, I do my very darnedest to get
Friendship to shout me somewhere else. Last week I
paid several shillings for about two hours of amusement
and a headache that lasted me all that night and most of
the following day. Half-way through the performance, I
felt that headache coming along, and looked round the
theatre to see how many' windows were open. There
ivasn’t one. As the show was really amusing, I hung on
to the end. But all through the last act the carbonic
acid gas demon was adjusting and tightening a vyce on
my head ; and at the last curtain-fall 1 went out dazedly l
into the cool night air feeling as if some powerful person
had hit me on the skull several times with a sandbag.
For the next few months, whenever I have a spare even-
ing, I will smoke on the verandah and admire the stars
while the man next door plays the gramophone.
Conan Doyle tells a London interviewer some astonish-
ing things. His three recent plays, all successful, “ The
Fires of Fate,” “The House of Temperley” and “The
Speckled Band,” were all produced at his own risk. No
manager would accept them. All three are doing well on
tour, though the prize-fighting in “ Temperley ” keeps
many ladies from venturing to see it. C.D. hopes to pro-
duce it in Paris soon. Of ;11 his plays, he likes “A
Story of Waterloo ” (the old-pensioner study) best, and
“The Fires of Fate ” next ; but he proposes to give up
writing for the stage. “It interests me too much. It is
so absorbing that it draws one’s mind away from the
deeper things of life.”
THE SACRILEGIOUS PRODUCER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Jack and the Beanstalk ” is to be this year’s Drury
Lane pantomime. The Jack of the production is a Boy
Scout —Jack Halleybut by name. —London Daily Mail.
Is there, one wonders, aught at which the Huns
Who deal in Shows recoil?
One fair, old legend that these ruthless ones
Are hesitant to spoil?
Conceive the malefactor who would trick
Our childhood’s hero out
In the vast hat and long, white, prop-like stick
Distinctive of the Scout.
With naked legs and cord-encrusted breast,
The lad we loved of yore
Will scale the Bean and rush upon that pest—
The Giant Blunderbore.
The futile atmosphere of Empire Day
Will permeate the stage ;
Patrons who came to be amused will stay
To be consumed with rage.
’Tis but a step from this to Oberon,
In weird, brief pants arrayed,
What time Titania and Peas-blossom don
The plumes of the Girl Aid.
N.S.W.
H. SINGEMOINE.
Painters and a Few Artists.
Anybody can be a painter, but there are few
artists. By degrees, the N.S.W. Society of
Artists is cultivating a respect for this truth, and
in the annual exhibition which is now open at the
Queen Victoria Markets, Sydney, the painter has
been shorn of the too generous space previously
allowed him and her. Unfortunately, while
this piece of wisdom is a certain cure for an
overdose of painter, it does not provide an extra
supply of artist. Which, from one point of view,
is perhaps just as well, seeing that even now there
isn’t nearly enough buyer to go round. The artist
can go an incredibly long distance on a diet of
warmed-up Soul and the wine of Inspiration, but
the craving for sausages and bottled beer is the
very devil.
However
The 1910 exhibition is noteworthy—in patches.
The principal patches are ,T. J. Hilder and
Florence Rodway. Hilder is developing rapidly
as a color specialist, and every day that his
distinctive creation in blue, “Moreton Island,” is
hanging in the Markets the more his credit will
accumulate. A white, low-lying schooner drifting
out of a haze ; a strip of white sand balancing the
island ; a white gull high in the tropic glare and
blue of the sea and sky—blue that is neither in the
sea nor of the sky, but is the hot, tangible blue of
Day. That makes a picture which can be pur-
chased for £42 (or could before this edition went to
press); but the purchaser will probably wish lie
hadn’t done it five minutes after signing the cheque.
Then he will have another look at the picture ;
and another; then one more. And after that he
will “shout” himself a quiet drop, and agree
that he knows something, after all. In three days
he will be doubtful whether he would take twice
the money for the canvas, and in three weeks it’ll
be too late to offer him any money. Hilder gets
in another artistic effect in “The Cross Roads”—
a well constructed picture in soft blues and greys.
His third can vas, “An Old Horse Drinking,” is
good enough for an illustrated Christinas supple-
ment, but it wasn’t worth Hilder’s while to pro-
duce it.
Florence Rodway splits a bottle of honors with
Hilder, and individual opinion can share it out
between them. The lady’s pastels deserve as
much as can be spared, and if there is any over
she deserves that. too. Her big work is “The
Intruder”; but the portrait of Henry Lawson’s
daughter, Bertha, carries this writer’s vote. It
is not for sale —(the picture, not the vote) —which
merely offers another inducement to steal it.
After that?
Well, Lionel Lindsay’s etchings and mezzotints
—or some of them. You pay your money and
take your print, and they’re too cheap at the
price. The expression the artist gets into his
trees alone doubles the value of the work.
And some of Julian Ashton’s water-colors.
They are far better than his oils, which this year
leave a taste of green tea —boiled.
And E. Gruner’s “ Bush Track,” easily the best
of his work and full of the spirit of the bush.
And Douglas Fry's horses and dog.
Finally, three cheers are distributed amongst
Isobel MeWhannel, George Clint (extra half
cheer thrown in for “ Afternoon,” a little water-
color), Leslie Board (for delicacy of tints), Ruby
Winckler (who illustrates a hot time in Paradise
in a new way), Mildred Lovett (for a portrait
bust of J. R. Ashton), Jessie Brooks (for a minia-
ture), Mildred Lovett (a second instalment for a
vase) and Edward M. Smith (for portrait ex-
pression).
There are a number of others who deserve to be
thrown from the dome of the Markets three times.
The exhibition is strengthened by the addition
of a number of works which have been lent by
their owners for the occasion—some bought at
different times from Hilder. Douglas Fry, George
Henry, James Quinn, Florence Mofflin and
others. Norman Lindsay exhibits IGor 17samples
of his talent, most of them illustrations for pub-
lished Lone Hand stories.
The exhibition will remain open for some little
time, and the public with a shilling to spare is
confidently recommended to climb up and have a
look at it. In years to come, when Australia is
over-run with Great Artists—as foretold in every
studio—the mere shilling public will not be able
to get near the exhibitions for tbe rush of guinea
hat and the rattle of bejewelled women. Yet
those shows will not be so interesting as the little
shows of the gropers in to-day’s artistic dawn. It
was the first aboriginal who, hollowing a log with
fire, laid the foundations for the Australian fleet;
but it is too late to do him honor now. Get in
early, therefore, and honor the art aborigines.
And remember what was said earlier concerning
sausages and bottled beer.
♦
Something likejhe catastrophe that overtook the
Fusion in Australia on April 13 has just happened
to the Republicans in the United States, and for
much the same reason. The Republicans, who
nominally support up-to-date legislation in
general, had ceased to.be progressive. They had
begun to mark time. So the Democrats chris-
tened them the “stand-pat party”—men who
were lifting their feet slowly and putting them
down carefully in the same place. The rest was
easy, and the Republicans were routed. During
the present session of the Australian Parliament
the Fusionists stood pat almost to a man. Every
Bill and every proposal put forward by the Fisher
Ministry have been opposed. The favorite method
has been to say that the principle is sound, but
that the method is radically wrong. In this way
the Fusionists, who had promised a land tax,
found an excuse for voting against the Fisher
land tax. Now the stand-pats are violently
opposing the enlargement of the Commonwealth
Constitution. There is a clause in the Constitu-
tion expressly providingjfor its enlargement; and,
of course, the method prescribed is being faith-
fully followed. But the Deakook stand-pats are
all to be let loose against the alterations, and pre-
sently they will pervade the country like a herd
of wild buffaloes. They say the alterations “were
not contemplated,” and the notion of allowing the
people to “contemplate” them now drives them
frantic. So next March will see the Aus-
tralian stand-pats trying to sweep back the sea—
with the certainty that they will suffer the fate
of all stand-pats and get very wet.


MEN’S HATS.
TWO NEW
SHAPES.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all <roods except Fur-
niture, Floor-covering,
Kitchen and Hardware
to any part of the
Commonwealth.
£
New shaped Panamas from South America. Brims
from 2Jin. to 3jin., fine, even plait and splendid
bleach, sweat-proof leathers. These are the best
value offered in Australia, and we guarantee |C /C
they will not crack u
Other prices—21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 45/- and 63/-
4
>
A splendid Loung-e Felt Hat for the country—the
illustration carries a 2§in. brim ; the crown can be
tucked in all round, if desired. Also, with 2Jin. and
2Jin. brims. Colors —Light Grey, Fawn, Reseda.
Light Brown, Lucerne Blue and 10/6 and 12/6
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
• • •
I.
wm
SAlflnW
CCRUS
Christmas is Coming!
BE UP TO DATE, and Present
Your Friends with One of «£*
HARRINGTONS’ CAMERAS
The Best Value selected from the World’s Leading Makers.
pr-A CAMERA IS ALWAYS ACCEPTABLE TO YOUNG OR OLD
THE
“ENSIGN”
DAYLIGHT- LOADING
FILM CAMERA
DEFIES ALL
COMPETITION.
Takes Photos 2£ x 2J.
TWO VIEW FINDERS.
Price 5/- Complete.
FULL INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN WITH EACH
CAMERA.
SEND FOR OUR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATA-
LOGUE. OVER 400 PAGES.
YOU SHOULD NOT FAIL TO SEE THE FOLDING
“ ENSIGNETTE FITS IN THE VEST
POCKET OR A LADY’S HANDBAG.
Takes Photos 2i x l£. Daylight Loading. One
movement brings it into action.
PRICE, COMPLETE IN CASE,
SIX EXPOSURE SPOOL OF FILMS, 1/-
FOLDING CAMERAS
FOR
ROLL FILMS OR
PLATES STOCKED
IN ALL SIZES
AND PRICES.
ASK TO SEE OUR 218
POCKET “ ENSIGN.”
DAYLIGHT ft RE-
LOADING.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney;
and at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
SOCIETY
The Ma State railways have lately been mak-
ingsome interesting experiments in train-coasting
on themountainslopes by increasing the loads 25 or
50 per cent. But the engine-drivers and firemen
who have to steer the shrieking avalanches down
the grades, reckon the brakes already had just as
much as they could hold, and have decided to fire
a petition or a protest into headquarters. If it
isn’t listened to, they expect that the Westing-
house will one day fail, and a trainload will go
roaring down like a thousand-ton thunderbolt to
Sheol. There should be a rule that any man who
yearns to make a name for himself departmentally,
by crowding on stupendous loads and thereby
•subjecting engines to terrific tests on stretches of
track where a breakdown may mean utter and
•complete smash, must —for the first few times,
anyhow—ride on the engine. When it is merely
a matter of sitting in an office and directing the
■other fellow to “ try it,” a man is liable to take
risks that he would side-step if he knew he had to
ibe amongst those present.
THE CAT!
ONE LEADING LADY: “ How was business on
your tour? ”
ANOTHER DITTO: “ Oh, we did rippingly! In
some towns lots of people couldn’t get into
the theatre.”
THE FIRST: “M’yes. But did they try?”
A MATTER OF DEGREE.
MAD: “There's young Singthc. He’s an M.A. now, you know."
MEG: “Is he? Well, I don't think he’ll ever be an M.A.N.”
In the Federal Arbitration Court Justice
Higgins took evidence lately as to the claims of
the deck officers of the Australasian Merchant
Service for improved pay and conditions. One
portion of that evidence upsets a lot of firmly-
rooted reverence; and as it was given by the
chief officer on the Moldavia, it can be taken for
gospel as to the salaries paid to navigators
in the cheap-niggered P. and O. service. These
salaries, or wages, or “screws,” or whatever they
are, pan out as follows:
Fifth officer, £4B per annum ; fourth officer, £6O ; third
officer, £96 ; supernumerary second, £132 ; second, £166 ;
first, £l6B to £204.
It takes five years to rise to third mate, and
collect £96 per 12 months, or £ll6s. lid. per week
(which is not as much as the Australian seaman-
before-the-mast earns); and having worked up to
chief officer, the P. & O. quarter-decker takes
seven more years on the road between £l6B per 12
months (or £3los. per week) and £240 (or £4l2s. 3d.
per week). It takes 20 years at least to become
commodore in the prodigiously haughty service,
and the’prcsent occupant of that dizzy altitude is
receiving £9OO. Still, there are compensations to
be picked up on the P. & O. liners ; and quite a
lot of the compensations have so much money that
wages thereafter don’t matter.
It is now several days'since the last per-
son accused in connection with the Richmond
(Vic.) railway smash was found not guilty and
discharged without the semblance of a blot on his
character, and as nothing has transpired since it
seems that John Weary’s Government gives the
matter up. On the face of things it might be sup-
posed that there were only two alternatives:
either the system was hopelessly wrong, or some
employees grossly neglected the rules. But the
most vigorous efforts have been made to attach
the blame to the employees, and they have failed.
Presumably, therefore, the drivers and signal-
men brought about the smash by careful
observation of the rules, and the trouble
arose through the rules being a raving lunatic.
On the other hand, Tait is the man who is ulti-
mately responsible for the rules, and he has
retired with a magnificent testimonial from
Murray as to his good management. Of course,
it may be that Murray doesn’t know good manage-
ment when he sees it, any more than an ass knows
a scalene triangle, and that his testimonial to
Tait was all wrong. Or it may be that Murray’s
Government doesn’t know law when it sees it,
and that it should have got a conviction against
somebody, but failed through incapacity. Any-
how, a lot of people died one morning at Rich-
mond, and even Murray doesn’t profess that
they died of sudden dandruff. Yet, apparently,
all hope of finding out why they died has been
abandoned. And when a heap of folk can be
slain in the open air about a mile from the centre
of the second city in Australia and not leave a
clue to the identity of the slayers, it seeths that
it would be almost as safe to become a nathralised
Armenian and go to live in Turkey as to stay in
Murray’s country. Murray ought to get a dog as
Attorney-General—a bloodhound for choice
The trout season has again set in (that is,
the English trout-in-Australia season), and the
N.S.W. Government, which has gone to consider-
able expense in stocking the southern rivers of
the State with imported fish, expects to get the
money back from tourists fishing the streams in
the haw-hawthodox English way. So far the only
revenue derived is from an occasional railway
ticket purchased by the perambulating trout-
hunter ; while the odd profit is being made by
the business firms which import the necessary
weapons. Meanwhile, the native population, with
a grasshopper on a string, camps on the rivers and
captures large quantities of trout, which is smoked
and stowed away in beer casks. Wherefore, the
Angling Association of N. S. Wales is urging the
Government to chase the camping parties with a
fleet-footed, determined policeman, and to put
down the supply of free grasshopper with a firm
regulation. In return, the Ass. says it is willing
to pay ss. ahead for the exclusive rights to the
N. S. Wales streams. Which doesn’t seem much,
even for a stream like the Cotter.
A Melbourne boy of 15 shot himself the
other day while travelling in a train. No motive
was assigned for the self-destruction ; but some
curious evidence was given, nevertheless. It was
said that the boy suffered from violent head-
aches, and a turbulent affection for a
mysterious fair-haired girl. Further-
more, it was alleged that he had visited
a suburban seer who had coolly fore-
told that he would commit suicide.
Of course, it will not be known
whether that news preyed upon a
presumably morbid mind, or whether
the head and heart pangs were the
cause of his violent end. What seems
likely, however, is that the boy
needed a regular dose of medicine;
while if the other part of the story is
true, what seems certain is that the
subhrban seer needs a regular dose of gaol.
* * * *
The Messageries Maritimes liner Salazie
lately cleared Sydney for France after three
months’ stay in Fort Jackson. Last August the
steamer was off Gabo, bound for Sydney, when
the top of the h.p. cylinder blew off ; and when
the downstairs staff sorted itself out, the
engine-room resembled a seismograph that had
been charged by a bull-earthquake. The crippled
mail boat was dragged into Sydney by another
M. M. liner, and the Frenchmen in Sydney as-
sembled to view the damage and shake their
heads at the prospects. For the ruin was com-
plete; it would never pay to tow the vessel to
Marseilles for repairs, while as for having the job
done in Sydney—did not everyone say that
nothing could be made in Australia? However,
Mort’s Dock undertook the repairs, and did them
in such a style that in future the Messageries
Maritimes will take its hat off to the dock every
tirjie they meet. Meanwhile, if France knows
what the Salazie looked like three months ago,
the return of the vessel to Marseilles will be
about the biggest advertisement that Australia
hah ever received in those parts.
“ Rooinek ” from East London (S.
Africa): —
I see the Australasian (6/8/10) says, in endorsement
of Foster Fraser, that “ if the British race has not degener-
ated in Australia, such a result is contrary to the uni-
versal experience of European races in warm climates.”
The view interests me as one who has put in eight years
among the Boers, a European race domiciled for two and
a half centuries in a climate closely corresponding to that
of Australia. Have the Boers degenerated? Accept
Roosevelt’s dictum that the three great attributes of a
dominant race are ability to work, to fight at need, and
to have plenty of children, and see how they fulfil those
requirements. In the past the Boer has been hindered
from showing his mettle as a worker by the unlimited
supply of Kaffir labor that was available. During the
last five years the supply of nigger labor has de-
creased ; and having been obliged to take to
manual toil, the Boer has worked well on farms and
elsewhere. In regard to fighting, his record speaks
for itself. And the birth-rate problem has never
worried him. In the Kroonstad district of the Orange
Free State lives Mrs. Van Wvk, widow of the late Conrad
Hendrik Van VVvk. Married at 18, she is now 78 and the
mother of 30 children. Incidentally she has over 200
grandchildren. It is only fair to say that this is con-
sidered quite a good performance even for a Boer woman.
And then there is the striking mental alertness of the
present generation of Boers. “Oh, the Dutch have all
the brains,” is a common remark in S’Africa, and it is
true. To say nothing of politicians, the Chief Justice of
S. African is a Dutchman, and so are most of the Judges
and eminent lawyers, such as Kotze, Juta, Schreiner,
Krause, Van der Riet and others. In school and matri-
culation examinations throughout S. Africa the brilliance
of the Dutch children is conspicuous, and invariably the
list of prize-winners bristles with Dutch names. Here is
a European people which for over two centures has lived
in a sub-tropical climate, with no infusion of new blood,
and to-day it stands forth masterful and strong, Africa’s
ruling race. There is no degeneracy about S. Africa, or,
so far as I know it, about Australia either —though I’m
quite willing that the Australasian should speak for
itself. #
Last week two Sydney papers got what
had been coining to them for some time, in the
form of heavy fines for contempt of court in con-
nection with their treatment of the Senkovitch
case. These sheets specialise in the Horror of
the moment. Their photographs of the House
where the Butchery Occurred, with an X to mark
the room where deceased fell with a thud, and a
photograph of the thud, are well and favorably
known to all gore-lovers; also their interviews
with neighbors re the marrow-freezing timbre of
the dying howl and the dull wallop of the axe.
In delivering judgment, C..T. Cullen said : —■
Happily the press of this country, generally speaking,
had never descended to that morbid newsmongerinc
which threw an atmosphere of romance about every
detail of a sensational crime, or alleged crime, and pre-
sented biographies and the pictures of every matter cal-
culated to appeal to the morbid taste for sensation before
the public. This was a matter which the press of this
country had not been disgraced by.
Which shows that even a Supreme Court Judge
can be ironical when he gets genuine encourage-
ment* # # '
A Bulletin man struck one edifying
result of the pitiless rebukes which have been
lately aimed at young Australia for his wicked
disinclination to give up comforts and privileges
out of respect for grey whiskers. It was in a full
railway carriage on the St. Hilda line. A red-
faced buckwith military sprightliness and snow-
white hair and moustache stepped aboard as the
train moved, and shoved himself against the dOor.
A gentle youth of about 20, who had been reading
the Argus discussion on “ Are our Manners Dete-
riorating?” sprang up anxious to do the good-boy
act. “ Won't you-take my seat, sir?” he said. The
red-faced buck put on a complexion of rich purple.
He spluttered for a second or two, and then roared :
“ Take your seat! Take your Seat ! Why, blast
your impertinence, I could stand all day and hold
a pup like you under each arm, and one in my
teeth! Take your seat! Dammit, if you don’t
sit down, I’ll knock you down!” Willy of the
excellent intentions sat down. Manners were off.
A LIGHT SLEEPER.
T HE B OSS: “ Night watchman's job t' Yes! What
are your qualifications?"
THE APPLICAN'T: Well, Mister, almost anything
wakes me."
A Melbourne snapshot;—
In a more or less secluded eaf6 She was passing away
the time and a few trifles on the menu when He came in.
“ Well,” she said, as he ordered caf6 noir, “ what have
you brought for me to-day ? ”
The hand that was nourished on awful dinners and
early morning drinks stole to the pocket of his coat.
“This,” he said, producing a case containing a golden
circlet.
“Oh ! another bracelet,” she commented, putting up
her hands to hold her complexion in its place.
“No ! No ! ” he murmured, “it’s an anklet for the most
artistic ankle in the world ! ”
“Oh! how svveet of you!” she cried. “Put it on,
love.”
With that she swept aside a dish of scones and two
cups of imitation tea, and laid upon the t.,1)1e a leg.
Equally resolute, he clasped the ornament , about the
streak of stockinged flesh.
Then they went out to his waiting Panhard, and the
literary-looking lady at the cash desk said : “ A supple-
ment to the Decameron is about to be compiled.”
AH EARNEST PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The reason why thoroughly happy homes, homes of
complete harmony and constant sunshine, are so few is
found mainly in the fact that if the two paitners are
Christians at all they are so only in a nominal way. Such
Christianity, superficial and formal, will not set peopleto
praying in earnest, “Lord make me easy to live with.” —
Dr. James Mudge, in the Christian World Pulpit.
Lord, make me easy to live with ;
Show me the path to take ;
Make me a simple problem,
For the kids and the old girl’s sake.
When I come home tanked and hopeless,
When I’ve strayed by the whisky brook —
,ord, keep a hold of my coat-tail,
And tug when I’m going crook.
Lord, make me easy to live with
When the youngsters howl at night;
I know that I growl like blazes
And cuss things with all my might;
And I lay the blame on the missus—
So, when you see me do that,
Lord, I would take it kindly
If you’d give me the friendly chat.
Lord, make me easy to live with
When the monthly bills fall due ;
When I rail at the wife for a spendthrift,
And nag like a three-ball Jew.
You know, Lord, she has her troubles
To make her allowance fit —
Lord, when you hear me “ rousing,”
Lean down and whisper “ Quit.”
N.S.W.
KONINI.


lliltsttv
SOAP
u
0
For all
yr domestic uses. >
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters
the home.
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED.
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 67.
L.
By Special
Appointment
fa
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding 1 Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Bing up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
What Better Gift
for Xmas than a Panama ?
For Yourself or
Your Best Friend.
You would find it hard to give a
man anything that would please
him better than one of these
Panamas.
They are so cool, so light, and
last for years—because they are
the genuine Panama from South
America. We emphasise this point
because imitations are about.
The crowns are 3£in. and 4in.
high, and the brims from 2£in. to
3Jin. wide.
Prices, 15s. 6d„ 21s. 8 255.
Posted to any Address.
Will stamp any initials in them, too, if you like, without charge.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“Men’s Outfitters.”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Awittaka ” : Re S. Aus. railways’ blood-
less record, lately given a Bulletin par, Tas-
mania’s system can go one better, for since the
inception of the Government railways, 38 years
ago, not one passenger has been killed, Of
course, the Speck’s railways, all told, are only 479
miles, and the passenger traffic is only about 1§
million a year; but, .even so, this is one of the
bits of its history that the little island has some
reason to be very well satisfied with.
AFTER THE FALL.
THE FALLEN A IRMAN: “ It was my first spin, too."
THE GENTLE GARDENER: “And d-did you enjoy
it?”
Last week four J’s.P., of Hawthorn (Vic.),
beat e.yen the Victorian record by finding a man
guilty of indecently assaulting a child of six years
of age, and then fining him 40s. for it. The same
morning, at Flemington, a Mrs. Diamond was
fined £5 odd for losing her temper with a railway
guard, and in half a dozen other courts misappro-
priators of from Is-3d. to 16s. scored from three
to six months without the option. Some day a
herd of Vic. J’s.P. will fine a man a sovereign for
kicking his mother to death, and follow that up
by ordering the embezzler of a five-pound note to
be publicly strangled. Then the populace may at
length take notice.
LABORIOUS ABSORPTION.
THE SOUBRETTE : “ How did you find rubhing in
whisky serve for your [?]eumatism?”
THE EMINENT ONE: “ Tedious , me cheeild,
tedious."
“Celia Lloyd” : If tlie dirty, dangerous
nor’-west corner of Australia—say 60 miles each
way from Broome and 20 miles inland—were
dipped under water for about a week, that part
of the Commonwealth which most needs a wash
would get it. I have lived with the nor'-west white
pearlers ashore and afloat, and with a few excep-
tions, have found them lazy and
incompetent. They simply stand by
to open the shell, and allow the
whole of the navigation and hand-
ling of the vessels to be directed by
the high-and-mighty Jap diver and
tender, who also take charge of the
master and treat him as they think
fit—and having seen him ashore
either on the Ninety-mile Beach or
up Beagle Bay way, they reckon
pretty well anything is fit. The
diver has thus become master of the
situation and knows it. Sometimes
a gritty white man happens along,
but he has a hard row to hoe in
dealing with the fellow who has
been on the throne so long. Take,
for instance, one who came out for
a Cohenstein pearling firm. He
knew colored men, and had a repu-
tation for being able to handle
them. He signed on as mate, but as
there was no skipper he had to take
charge. And he did take charge.
But the Jap gentlemen, long used
to handling affairs as they liked,
didn’t understand. They couldn’t
grasp the fact that they had found
a white man energetic enough to
run things and keep them shipshape.
They threatened, they refused work
—and he took them into Broome and
dumped 18 of the ringleaders into
gaol. Cohenstein agreed that it was
quite the right and only course, but
“ most unfortunate.” Somehow that
mate didn’t do any good there after-
wards. That is why the Jap runs Broome and the
N.W. pearling grounds; and because the yellow
man runs the pearling grounds he will in every
probability make one of his first calls on us there
jwhen he means mischief.
* * * * *
Usually it is the fate of the wind-jammer
to be fooled about and delayed by mid-ocean
storms and calms ; then to be kept beating about
in sight of port for a week or two, until a tug
rushes out like a water-spider and drags it slowly
in where the consignee lurks with his bill of lading
on the wharf, and the yellow-haired barmaid lies
in wait behind the beer-engine. Once in a while,
though, the wind and the sea conspire together
and rush one of the canvas-winged arks to its
destination so rapidly that it is half inclined
to believe it isn’t the out-of-date conveyance people
think it is. The German barque Margretha,
from Capetown, with a cargo of coke for the Mt.
Lyell Co., knocked the Melbourne shipping
people endways by blowing across from S.
Africa in 21 days—steamer time. As a matter
of salted fact, the Margretha actually beat the
Aberdeen liner Salamis hy one day, owing to the
steamer’s bad luck in having a minor breakdown
after leaving the Cape. The only explanation of
the unusual speed is that wind and water con-
spired to get the ship talked about, so as to direct
attention to the shameful fact that Mount Lyell
was bringing a cargo of coke to Australia when it
could get first-class coke here.
remarks of ,Tas. Turnbull, the
company’s superintending
engineer. According to this
authority, the engines in the
power houses—which belong
to the Trust and revert to
the citizens in six years’
time—are practically obso-
lete, and if the lines are to be
worked by cable for long
after the co. hands them
over, new plant will have to
be put in. The co. has to
hand everything over in good
order, but that doesn’t in-
clude putting in new engines,
so the co. says, as the pref
sent ones will still be capable
of carrying moderate loads
at a deliberate pace for a few
years longer. One way and
another it looks as though
the municipalities won’t get
much of a tramway system,
after all. About all that will
remain in 10 years’ time will
The Commonwealth Government has made
contracts for the supply of cord and cloth for the
uniforms of the citizen forces. The cloth is to
< come “from the Marrickville, Parramatta,
Cooerwull. Albion, Collins and Doveton
. mills.” Of these only the Albion is in Vjc-
toria ; yet Victoria is the mother State of
the Australian woollen industry. In
the fore-Federation days, however,
the Victorian woollen industry made
a mess of its chances ; so that when
Federation came and woollen
mills got going in N.S.W., the
very tailors in Melbourne who
had scoffed at the old locally-
made clothes were quick
enough to recognise the
superiority of the tweed
turned out from the more
modern mills beyond the
Murray. Victoria dates
hack to 1867 as a cloth-
producing country; but
the results show that
there was something
amiss with the unpro-
gressive men who ran
the business. An
average well-dressed
Melbourne citizen
wears boots and hats
of wholly local
manufacture; but
his sac-suiting and
his dress coat are
quite otherwise.
Why this should
be only Heaven
and the tailors
know. It is certainly
not the result of pre-
judice on the part of the
tailor or his customer, for
the one has nothing to gain by selling im-
ported stuff, and the other mostly doesn’t know
where the stuff comes from. It seems to be the
result of a want of enterprise in the long ago
when Victoria might have done the woollen
things which were done in Maoriland many years
later, but was content to fool about with obsolete
machinery and take mighty little pride in the
goods it turned out.
* * * *
Those Melbourne citizens who pay atten-
tion to the evidence which is being given to the
Select Committee on the tramway fares revision
question got something to think about in the
be the underground tunnels, and they will be
simply a nuisance when the lines are electrified.
* * * *
From “Bromide,” who has been “doing”
Queensland :
X could have understood Foster Fraser’s talk about the
degeneracy of the Australian if he had made a trip
through the sugar districts during crushing season.
There’s a “ crook ” crowd comes up every year to do
nothing but hang around the pubs, “ hum ” beer, and go
through drunks. Dirty and disreputable mobs are to be
seen at nearly every pub and street corner any hour of
the day and night cadging “trays” or “tanners” from
the passers-by until thev get enough to “ run the cutter,”
generally a black billy-can. When the William returns
from the trip they sit round ladling the lush out in
Jimmie Pannikins, amusing themselves with filthy
yarns, using foul language and quarrelling and
fighting amongst themselves, to the annoyance of every-
one in the neighborhood. When the passers-by won’t
“ stand the acid,” they take a walk from pub to pub look-
ing for a cane-cutter who is doing in his cheque and is too
drunk to care what happens. If they are lucky and get
his “dough," then Hell is let loose. They’d turn a dog
sick!
It’s a treat to leave the sugar area where these “white
Kanakas” herd and get Outback where the “ men ” live.
Rough? Yes, of course they are rough. But they are
the boys to tie to. And, make no bloomer, if ever the
time comes and we have to “ up gun,” they’re the boys
who are going to do more to hold Australia than any other
crowd. They’d ride the Devil if theycould yard him and
get a saddle' on him, and they can shoot straight enough
to blow the charity out of a Wowser, and that’s the
nearest thing to using nothing as a target that I know
of. Give them a few pounds of flour, a prad, some green-
hide, a rifle and ammunition, and they’ll cheerfully start
out into the Never-Never looking for minerals, or what-
ever is to be got there. They’ll live, bet your life on it,
and they’ll only make back to the settlements when the
flour and cartridges are done. What a regiment of
mounted infantry they’ll make ! Let 5000 of them get
into the hills round the Gulf country, and I’ll defy an
army to dislodge them. Oh, yes, they’re rough all right!
They’d just as soon fight.you as drink with you, and their
language wouldn’t suit Judkins. But they are men.
We’ll hear from the “ greenhide push ” yet.
“ The Old Soldier ” : The trial of the Ger-
man Lieutenant Helm in England, the other day,
was a farce. He was charged with sketching one
of the six Portsdown Hill forts. They were built
half a century ago, are quite out-of-date and are
now used as barracks open to all and sundry.
Being 6000yds. from Portsmouth dockyard,
they could not protect it from bombardment.
Anyhow, Helm could have got all the information
he wanted about the defences of Portsmouth in
Berlin. In a course of lectures on “Permanent
Fortification.” published 25 years ago by the Royal
Engineer Institution, occurs this: —
A book which treats fully of our works, and which is
very well illustrated, is by Kuster, published at Berlin in
1873, at the publishing establishment of the Engineer
Committee.
The German authorities’ previous capture of a
British naval officer and a captain of marines
explains the arrest of the futile and harmless
Helm. These officers were caught under intensely
suspicious circumstances on the island of Borkum.
Now, Borkum is at the mouth of the Ems, which
separates Holland from Hanover; and in his
“English Invasion of Germany” a “French
Staff Officer” says of it: —
But the finest thing to accomplish would not he a direct
attack on the Elbe, Heligoland, Cuxhaven, etc. No, it
would be to land at Borkum and at Emden ; to take
aslant all the German preparations for the invasion of
France.
And he goes on to explain why. So it looks as
though the officers at Borkum meant business. To
try to bag a set-off was the least—in fact, it was
about the only thing—their comrades in England
could do for them.
* * # *
The struggle to hold a £5 train with a
twopenny brake has murdered another engine-
driver in Victoria. With 260 tons weight behind
him he bolted down the grade that leads into Kil-
more, vainly shoved his rotten gear on all he
knew, then crashed into a dead end and was
crumpled up. So now another ghost sits on the
doorstep of John Weary, the man who gave the
beautiful testimonial to Tait. Luckily ghosts can
sit close, else Weary would require to get his
doorstep enlarged.
* * « *
The police of Port Pirie (S.A.) have been
investigating a remarkable case. At a “ darnce ”
were (1) mother, (2) baby and (3) a pram. When
No. 1 was ready to go home, 2 and 3 were missing.
An agitated search brought to light No. 3, away
up the road, empty. No. 2 was found later, in
the park-lands, alone and very much annoyed.
The police say they have the man who played the
prank. His best defence would seem to be that
he was rehearsing for a flickergraph comedy.
NATURE GIVES A HINT.
Australia is to have all-round penny post-
age at an estimated loss of £400,000 for the first
year. Later on, it seems, the profits are
to be gigantic. The advocates of the penny
post argue that because Britain can carry-
letters for a maximum distance of about 600
miles for a penny and make' a profit, Aus-
tralia can necessarily carry them 2400 miles
for the same humble “ brown ” with the same re-
sult. Which is much the same as saying that be-
cause it pays the N.S.W. railways to carry a
person from Sydney to Redfern for 2d., it would
pay to carry him to Melbourne at the same
figure. These people have a theory that re-
duction of postage rates necessarily leads to in-
creased profits—in other words, if the rate
is cut down from 2d. to Id. there will be
increased profit, and if it is further reduced to
there will be extra profit, and if it is cut down
to nothing there will be still more profit, and if
the Post Office makes the man who posts an un-
stamped letter a present of Id. then there will be
most profit of all. About these matters there
seems to be some doubt. Anyhow, penny postage
is a British fetich, and Australia is to have it,
though there are places in Australia where the
cost of delivering letters is at least ss. each. Why
it should be the custom to charge a letter the
same rate for half a mile and for 2400 miles, while
human beings and carpet bags pay by mileage, is
rather a mystery, but the idea is handy, and—
what is much more important—it is British.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
THE PARSON’S NON SEQUITUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Angus King, of the Presbyterian Church,
interviewed regarding Judge Backhouse’s statement that
gvdney boys and girls kissed one another, and that there
was no harm in it, said that he thought that young
people who had anv respect at all for themselves would
not do anvthing of the kind. “In my own church,’’
he said, “I never see any of this promiscuous kissing.”
The luscious fig is not found burgeoning
Upon the wayside thistle ; pears don’t grow
On ti-tree bushes; briefly, ev’rything
In Nature has its proper sphere. And so,
My King, young folks don’t lurk,
And hug
And mug,
In any cold, dank kirk.
I daresay, Reverend, you could watch a gaol,
Or drunkards’ home, or tomb, or grave, for years,
And, though you gazed like billy-oh, yet fail
To see an inmate quaff one of those beers
Which folks whom you may find
Without,
Will “shout”
And swig till they are “ blind."
The youthful amorist, on kissing bent,
Avoids a heap of things—Her churlish dad,
Hard seats, coarse lads whose jealousy finds vent
In jeers designed to make the lover mad ;
But, most of all, he shuns
Amain,
The fane
Where crowd the Righteous Ones.
The Seotchbyterian lad in quest of fun.
Is just like other youngsters, and his lass
In no wise differs from the normal run
Of girls. A trait they share with the vast mass
Of lovers near and far
Is this :
They kiss,
But not where parsons are.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


WceK' of er wen of Church A.tfouxtion
5 fio«s o«k
WeVe *lre»Aj
recoyd
Club
SVtnC »n?
-fit *4
' uP t *
/K'nd 'fyo. 'ffy'fitt?
"To nothing op-
(?&hO |>i n
v-
£kr v/ben -fe l£.V SorT'of-
/M^rcli&r»T : Dye cajl
lt}is I?Ms'ness ?
ClerK: —" (e.sfe}*\>J-
Is it"'»i©r o«r
V/ceKT op* ...
pKAyeK.
Qodless Inquirer
of *s« ?
'Woy&v '- "Ihis «'s our
WeeX of l?Vfe |/ b^ rc V
World. '• J M
The Premier this afternoon thus ex-
pressed himself regarding the queries
which Dr. Springthorpe put in the letter
published yesterday to the responsible
authority of the Talbot Milk Institute
as to guaranteeing the purity of Talbot
raw milk.
Mr. Murray said that experts differed
as to whether milk could be of the requi-
site degree of ' purity when the farm
(rom which it was obtained was so
small as that from which the Talbot
supply was drawn. As to the use of
milking machines and rubber stoppers
giving a rubber
taste to the milk
and making it
less palatable
than it would
otherwise be f
that was a
point that had
been engaging
his own
attention.
Q>~) 'The. is not”~i when prater 1° & >^ in,^^s
befwcev, S«l«et«<l cl»vnj»io»>s of- 1$« 'middle-weight' d.V.j.ow
IS b*>on<il to be indulged in
K—g&gpr * p
P. WhxT'do nK o[ t^e
/ FV7I c r M *>!'!'&■/. ,CN ? J , I
' toilK ’
:"" 4,, » I1^!«K
< i-t£ Of) risVr~ v/itb
\ r«m .
fremier Moray discission eye.A-j-
"tffree-tafHe, »nV» t 1 should saof -
ifie -for milK i$ V* acquired one
A WEEK OF MILK AND PRAYER.


Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY. [3
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
Black Opal- surrounded by
choice Diamonds, £2O.
Choice Diamonds and one
Whole Pearl, £lO.
In all Diamonds,
£l2/12/=
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings, Pendants, and Jewellery generally, at prices
never before attempted in Australia. . . . v ,„„.
WHY? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have
to live up to it, and so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures
Cash.
]
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“The Outcast”: Witnessed a singular
•encounter or commotion the other day between a
big dog-fox and a proportionately large snake.
I don’t know how the difference of opinion arose,
but when I arrived it had passed all hope of
friendly arbitration. The fox had a grip on
-the crawler’s hind-tail, and was hauling him
to the nearest fox-restaurant. Snake, mean-
while, spasmodically whirled himself round the
;neck, head and muzzle of the other party
The muttered language of the fox was
-extremely violent on those occasions. Some-
times the serpent would grab hold of a fern
or root with both hands and hang on ; but the
furious assault on his backyard invariably drove
hi m to let go and rush round the premises to grab
the enemy by the singlet. I was just looking up
a handy-sized authority with which to deliver my
judgment on the argument, when they threw up
their briefs and fled out of court, neither of
them apparently any the worse for the proceed
ings. Does any Abo. expert know if foxes eat
snakes? Or was this one merely out after fun ?
FORCE OF HABIT.
SMITH : "Well! Well! My old pal Jones. I
never expected to see you in this world."
JONES: “ Same to you, old chap. Come and
HAVE A DRINK.”
“D.H.R.”: T’other night, at a “ stoo ”
-palace where I was stopping in Lismore (N.S.W.),
a man went to bed, and woke up and thought he
was being overcrowded. It was only a snake, of
the carpet variety. Next morning, at breakfast,
the chaps orated ; and I learned that the place
.aimply svvarmed with the animals. The ensuing
night I heard noises as of lengths of firemen’s hose
■being dragged about the floor of the loft over-
head. On inquiring as to the secret thereof, I
was told that it was only the ophidians in search
of rats. The roar of accumulated serpent in-
creased till I could scarcely hear the heat, and it
was hot enough to be distinctly smelt a hundred
miles off. At last I listened to a great dragging
-■noise just outside my bedroom door. I carefully
felt for a match and struck it suddenly. Then I
■saw a reptile like a movable tunnel blinking hard
in an endeavor to swallow the back stairs, which
it had already slimed. Some of these country
boarding-shows are real menageries.
NO AUTHORITY.
MICKO: “ Bill reckons you ain't no lady , Liz."
LIZ (with contempt): "'I m— the lyin' cow!"
“ Moon ” : I remove my clay to remark
that “Scapegoat’s” thrush (B. 20/10/T0) is the
one. He is the gladdest thing on wings, bar the
angel, which is rapidly becoming extinct. Drop
the swag in any decent bit of bush on the N.S.W.
coast, and before the billy boils A. Mavis, Esq.,
will be throating a “Glad, glad, glad to see you,
boy,” from a seat right up in the front row. He
watches with anxious interest the opening of the
nose-bag, and will lend you an appetite to dine
off any sort of tucker bar onions. I regretted to hear
“ S.G.” mention that the lady who kept house for
the little drab party in his vicinity this year was
a different lady from the one who twittered love,
honor and obedience last year. I hope he is
wrong; also, I believe he is wrong. A happy
.couple have raised respectable families close to
my camp (Williams River, N.S.W.) both last
year and this ; I recognise the wife by a peculiar
deformity of one foot, a possible guii-wound or
injury sustained in chickenhood. Anyhow,
“S.G.” doesn’t seem to have the instincts of a
gentleman where a lady’s reputation is at stake.
My own opinion (which I would not divulge for
a whole hogshead) is that he is a private detective.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: “Claypan,” con-
tradicting me, explains that Wayback coach-
drivers blow their bugles to rouse the post office.
This explanation is just what one would expect
from a theorising townsman who travelled once
with a whip on the Wileannia-White Cliffs road.
The Outback coachdrivers blow their bugles
in hundreds of places where there is neither
postal assistant nor P.M. Fully 95 per
cent, of their bugle-blowing is done many
miles away from townships. Possibly
the remaining 5 per cent, is done for the
benefit of the billiard-playing postal
assistant and the sleeping P.M. “Gil”
and I have travelled thousands of miles
Outback and Further-out; and we wrote
about the reasons for the greater part of the
bugle-blowing. We studied the matter “by
and 1 arge, ”as sailors say. ‘ ‘ Claypan ” general-
ises dogmatically on the strength of one 60-
mile coach trip, which probably he merely
dreamed about in the Sydney Domain.
* * * *
“Dob Wilkins”: I’ve never been much
of a hero or done anything out of the common,
but when I saw that girl in our little town one
day last week, I felt that I could tackle Jack John-
son with one hand and chase the Japanese out of
the Northern Territory with a clothes prop.
Next day I was out along the river fishing, and,
hapDening to glance up stream, I saw again the
divinity of yesterday. This time she was not
alone, and with jealous eyes I observed an em-
bracing arm around her willowy waist. Then the
pair sat down on a log, with their backs
to me, and I tell you straight I thought the
fellow was going to eat her face off. As I
watched, I suddenly observed another man
creeping up behind the unconscious lovers —
gnashing his teeth and foaming at the mouth.
In front of him he carried a murderous-looking
blunderbuss, and I had no doubt as to his intern
tions. I was frozen (or something) with horror;
then, with a yell, I grasped my fishing-rod, and
charged the stalker. He gave one startled look
at me, and then fled, his blunderbuss rattling in
the breeze. I chased him along the river bank,
grabbed him at last, and proceeded to jump on
him with both feet, amid the shrieks of the
divinity and the hoarse cries of a stout man whom
I hadn’t hitherto noticed, but who was coming
up at a sort of turtle-gallop. “Heh!” he
shouted; “what do you mean by it, you—you
bounder! You —you’ve spoilt a film for me.” I
removed my boot from the chest of the stalker
and stole away. No more beauty in distress for
me!
“Pick”: I want a last round with
“Geofred,” who (B. 3/11/TO) backs up his pig-
rescue lie with the assertion that, as the wind was
blowing off the land at the time of the Kameruka
wreck, and as the tide was ebbing, the Davis
brothers’ method of floating a rope ashore on life-
buoys was a failure. From this I judge that, like
certain other blunderers who were present at the
time, “Geofred ” would give credit for the rescue
BLAZES.
WITNESS FOR PLAINTIFF (in box , in answer to his
Worship): “I started at the peg marked D
and blazed a line through to peg marked E. your Worship."
COUNSEL (blandly): “ Now, Mr. Brown , would you explain to the Court how you managed to
make the bush blaze seeing that it can be proved it was raining heavily all that week?”
to swine or the Devil, or any other old thing
rather than to the Moruya fishermen who were
richly deserving of it. Well, here is the knock-
out to his latest fabrications. When the wind is off
shore, the sea is invariably calmed down. _ On the
morningof the Kameruka disaster it was rising, and
before therescue was completed was breaking right
over the stranded vessel. Also, that the tide was
conning in is proven by the fact that, although the
mate, who was landed first with a baby in his
arms, made the passage along the rope high and
dry, when the captain was finally pulled over, the
water had risen to such a height that he travelled
most of the way through the waves and some-
times under them. Besides this, had the wind
and tide been off shore, the Davis brothers would
have commenced operations by floating their rope
out to the vessel, instead of signalling to theship-
wrecked crew to float theirs in. (Now, please,
count “ Geofred ” out.)
Outburst found on the door of a hut <>n
Mungindi station (far-west N.IS.W.): —
They said this land out west was {{rand —
Maybe for him who says it;
I find it neither straight-out scrub,
Nor yet an honest desert.
Pest-haunted Hell, where lost souls dwell,
And battle on “ the Never” ;
A land mislaid, that God half made,
Then kicked aside for ever.
—After Lawson ( per boot).
Under which a commentator, with loyalty in his
heart and gaps in his education, remarks : —-‘‘He
who imposed this neu little of the South,’ and
signed himself “ A Friend of the West.” There
the controversy stops short.
• * * *
“ Horatio Breathless ” : Going to see the
fortune-teller is one of the minor dissipations of
unemployed washerwomen, care-free flappers, idle
females in hobble skirts and outrageous hats,
natural-born fools, hereditary asses and others, to
whom the fortune-teller is the only available sub-
stitute for the,extinct tribal witch-doctor. One
of the cheap variety of tellers was recently haled
before a Sydney magistrate and convicted on the
evidence of a youthful Constable who had been
detailed for the duty. This is all the incom-
petent prophetess could tell: (1) The spirits say
you ai - 6 about to speak to a young female
person with a sore throat; (2) where you are
living has a lot of spare ground round it;
(3) you have a close relation who suffers from
heart disease; (4) you have a friend who is
very ill, and lie will have to undergo an operation
because his “gut” is twisted. Of course, the in-
formation wasn’t worth the money ; but the sort
of people who go to fortune-tellers must be satis-
fied with it, otherwise the business would die out.
My idea of a good half-crown’s worth would be
something like this : “If you are at the N.H. cor-
ner of King and George streets at 1.23 on Mon-
day, you will meet Bodgers. He won £lO 10s.
last Saturday, and will pay you the sovereign he
borrowed six months ago, on the plea that he had
asked a fair-haired barmaid named Maud to have
dinner with him at Baris House before he found
that he had come away from home without any
money. If you accept theßrowns’invitation to take
tea with them at their boarding-house on Tuesday
night, you will be forced to join the landlady and
the other inmates in a musical evening. Beat up
another engagement for that night. If you don’t
go out next Sunday afternoon before 3.30, five
dull relations will call and stay to tea. The in-
ferior dog you possess will bite the butcher next
Wednesday at 11.24, and cause you expense to the
extent of £lO 15s. Bd. unless you give it away
before then. You have a rich friend named
Moses who covets the dog ; give it to him and let
it bite his butcher, who is fatter than yours. The
gas bill is going to be heavy next quarter, so
don’t go halves with Jorkins in the 1000 cigars.
This will save trouble as well as money, for
Jorkins, in a fatuous moment, is going to squander
£5 on 500 and tell his wife about it. As Mrs.
Jorkins and Mrs. Breathless are bosom friends,
and want new dresses, the news will soon reach
your place. Keep out of the cyclone. A man on
Cockatoo Island, whom you have only met twice
in your life, has given a dull friend a letter of
introduction to you. He will call at your office
next Monday at 10.14, and wait with his mouth
open for food, drink and entertainment unless you
take the precaution of being out. Make a note
on your diary for Monday that you are out.
There is a hole in the roof, and a rain-storm is due
next Friday evening at 6.27; unless you get the
plumber to call and fix it, the hall carpet will be
damaged. Don’t leave off your winter clothing
until November 3 —we are going to have five cold
snaps between then and now.” If I could get
definite information like the above, I would not
begrudge an occasional half-crown to the pro-
phetess ; and I freely give this tip to the lady in
case she wants more custom.
SPIDER v. FLY.
(N ew Version.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Australian mason-fly builds a house of mud, and
then furnishes the cottage with a supply of young
spiders that serve as food for the fly-larvae when the
mason’s egg hatches out into a grub. When the spiders
are consumed, the grub sprouts wings, bursts his mud
:roof and sails out a greedy fly buccaneer.
■“ Will vou walk into my parlor ? ” to the spider said the
fly';
“ ’Tis the neatest mud-made parlor that has ever met
your eye ”
And she caught him by the collar as he tried to hurry
by. ■ >’
■For she’d built a little cottage in the corner over there,
And she’d raised its walls of mud-brick, also finished it
with care,
And she needed sundry spiders for the comfort of her
lair.
As I said, she scruffed the • v - just a little
shy,
And she tossed him in the p i. oi ■ i-him not to
cry,
For she’d give him spider comrades m u.e pleasant by-
and-bye.
She gave her word to cheer him, and she kept it
faithfullee ;
She soon had blessed her captive w’ith the height of
coinpanee,
And she sate herself among them just as comfy as could
be ;
And she laid an egg beside them as a plaything sweet
and small.
And she murmured: “ BleSs you, children ! ” ere she
parted from them all,
And to keep them all together she just plastered up the
wall.
■So the spiders played at croquet with the egg the mason
laid,
Till the egg began a-hatching, when they noted, sore
afraid,
That the new-born fly was hungry, for he planned a
sudden raid—
Planned a raid 'and ate his room mates, burst the roof and
saw the sky;
And discovered he could wing it with the best that
fluttered by ;
And remarked : “ I’ve squared that business of the Spider
and the Fly.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Hotel
A ustra/ia -
TARIFF :
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel Is finely situatetl,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert even’
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms dav
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
nburfiK.
The Old Blend
Whisky
DIRECT FROM DISTILLER*. ' r
Rexona
The Rapid Healer, is an ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-
fashioned ointments, which are very slow in their
action, Rexona speedily relieves after a very few
applications. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d.
and 3s.*
Seasons change, Spring, Summer, Autumn,
w inter. Wolfe’s Schnapps at all seasons.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson* Proprieior
“Karl ” : How the Lord exercises enough
self-control to keep Himself from smiting the
wheat cocky off the face of the earth I don’t
know. During the early part of the year, in this
corner of Riverina, the rain held up, and the
cocky was darn-well sure he could never get that
new ground broken up. Light showers came, and
the bare fallow and the stubble turned over easily.
Still, he wept bitterly over the new ground. Then
lashings of rain came, and the new ground ploughed
marvellously, and in heaps of time for seeding.
The rainfall didn’t get within six inches of the
average ; but fifty points or so came in June and
July to bring the seed up, and a good fall fol-
lowed in August to fill the surface tanks, and a
couple of inches came in September to start the
grass, and a dry spell in October hardened the
straw. Still the cocky never smiled ; and, though
the crops were looking wonderful, he bewailed
the discrepancy between the actual rainfall and
the average, and prophesied drought in Novem-
ber. Well, we have had an inch in November,
so far; and now the cookies unanimously reckon
that it is sure to be a wet harvest. And if it
isn’t wet there’ll be rust. The Lord has a good
deal to put up with one way and another ; but I
guess the wheat cockv’U tire out even Providence
some day.
* * » *
“Dave H. R.” : I don’t know much about
the matter myself, but an ancient party who has
been in the Northern Territory for the past 27
years, shoved a Bulletin (6/10/’10) into my face the
other day, and spoke : “ This ’ere cove ‘ Yigilans ’
knows wot ’e’s talkin’ about orlright; an’ th’
bloke wot says ’is ’ind foot is bein’ pulled can go
ter ’ell. There’s no end to th’ buffaloes in th’
Territory, an’ wot ‘Vigilans’ sez about Laurie
sendin away two er three thousan’ ’ides a year
am t a bit too strong. In fact it ain’t a ’igh
enough estimut ov th’ bisness done in thet line.
Why, I knows men who sends nearly twice thet
number away ; and cud get rid ov a lot more ef
they cud on’y get the ’ands t’ shoot th’ buffs.
Wot e sez about cotton growin’ wild all over Port
Darwin an’ th’ rivers is true, too; an’ if any
trouble was taken t’ dervelop th’ industry, why, I
guarantee they’d make a fortune as big as Car-
negie s in a few years, becos even the cotten wot
grows wild there is splendid quality. An’ ’e’s
right, too, erhout sisal ’emp, rubber, rice, han-
gqras, pigs, zebus, turtle-cannin’ an’ other indus-
tries. _ Why, you coves down south ’as no idea
ow rich th’ Territory is. If th’ Country
wasnt asleep, they cud make it pay off th’
national debt in no time'
Hang me if they well cudn’t! ”
* * * *
The yarn of Elijah and the ravens has
been knocked out by the story of Gribble and the
pelicans. Ihe Australian Board op Missions
Review tells it without a blush :
The Rev - E - R- Gribble relates an interesting incident
that occurred to him and his nartv when returning from
the Mitchell River to Yarrabah, a 300-miles overland
journey. Mr. Qribhle and his two black boys could not
take much in the way of stores, so depended upon strik-
mgcattle stations on their journey. Three days after
leaving the Gulf they were very short of food, having
barely enough for their evening meal. As they journeyed
across a plain towards evening, they noticed coming to-
wards them a flock of pelicans, flying towards the coast.
One of the huge birds was flying much lower than the
others. Justin front of the pack-horses this bird suddenly
seemed to fall towards the earth ; but quickly recovering
itself flew on and rejoined its companions, and, to the
surprise of the party, there came hurtling through the
air a large fish, which struck the earth just in front of
the leading pack-horse. The fish weighed about 31b. and
was alive when picked up. The party had a good fish
supper that night on the banks of a lagoon just ahead,
from which the pelicans had come.
IN THE COW COUNTRY.
C HAIRMAN: “ Gen’lenten, I ask you to charge
your glasses an drink to the ladies. God
bless ’em ! What would our cows do without
’em?”
POOR FATHER.
REV. GENT: “ Well, dear , what does the moo cow say?”
LITTLE D ARLING: "Moo!"
REV. GENT: “And what does the pussy say?”
LITTLE DARLING: “ Meow!”
REV. GENT: “ And what docs daddy say?”
LITTLE DARLING: "Damn the cat!”
“ Psycho ” : I do not know whether
Robert Brothers is one or two men ; but lie (or
they) is (or are) all at sea in his (or their) use of
the Maori language (B. 13/10/’10). About the
only word correctly set out in the article is
“pakeha,” which the Brothers Bob evidently
fluked. “ Kaiora ”is unknown to me; but I take
it that “kia ora’’(“may health be with you”)
was meant. [The Bulletin hastens to mention
that the discrepancy was a mere error in proof-
reading.] “Pah,” again, is doubtless meant for
“ pa.” [“ Pah ”is the older foim of the word, and
was in use 50 years ago. The dictionary recognises
it,—Ed. B.] Then the singular (or plural) Robert
makes the Maori say “ hava ” for
“have”—a peculiarity which, as all
true Bulletin students know, is the
sole and legitimate property of the
Australian Dago. Henare does not
make his words longer than he can
help on the contrary, he cuts the
last syllable off wherever he can.
Then the Robert Bros, (when I come
to think of it there may be 12 of
them) credit the Maori with the indis-
criminate use of the word “feller,” a
fact which is sufficient to show me
that the brace, or dozen, or more, or
less, of Robert is more familiar with
the Australian aborigine than the
Maori. We are asked to believe, too,
that the Maori is in the habit of
annoying footpaths by squatting in
the middle of them. [Have fallen
over him.—Ed. B.] Well, I am not
in a position to say definitely that
no Maori has done this during the
past 20 years, but if Bob Bros, mean
to assert that it is a general occupa-
tion of the tattooed individual, or
even a common occurrence, then I tie
a cracker to a howl of derision and let
it go. lam forced to the opinion that
the Robertses are either very poor
observers of the Maori or, at the time of their
observations, there was no Maori in the vicinity.
This essay gets first prize in the straight-
jacket competition:—
Sacked towns and like human ganglia opine all resent-
ment to be needless temerity if the saekers are near
about. But a sacked bloke labors under a torrid con-
viction of two immediate alternatives—a physically
internecine bout with his boss ; or, if the law makes a
sinister ostentation of it, arm denuded of sleeves, the
vindication, with a prolific genius for pious allusions and
perversions, of his exactitude to prescribed duty, and
the deprecation is by no means equivocal, though
usually suppressed vernacular of all coercion to
alleged supererogations. It was my destiny to wit-
ness the adoption of the latter a couple of dajs back,
when a sacked brick-carter, with affecting chastity of
tongue, inquired for the casus belli. Quite a number of
harmless and curious people besides myself were attracted
and fired, too, by his vociferous rhetoric when he was ur-
banely told to sheer off and make himself scarce, or to look
out. With dazzlingly luminant expletives he expatiated,
to the attentive-eyed yet obfuscated throng, that he had
only conformed with constitutional prerogatives in insist-
ing upon Tus'own initiative and liberty, of free speech in
unloading his bricks not where he was told—not much—
but where it was easiest for himself. Yes, beyond all
question, his blarsted boss possessed a diabolical capacity
for tyrannous malice. With the encouraging “ Jus’so,
Joe,” “Hear hear ” of a few tipsy loungers, he voted the
said boss an oppressor of the brainy workman, and con-
victed him of trying to dwarf the mental activity of the
“ national backbone so he said. But for all his “ skite ”
he was sacked —just plain sacked—not au revoir till to-
morrow. Of course, jeremiad succeeded spent outcry.
Re white hawk (“Midnight,”
D. o/11/10). This bird, which is found along the
eastern coastand in Tasmania, isthe most numerous
of the five Australian goshawks. It used to be
fairly plentiful about the Richmond and Tweed
Rivers. It and the blue hawk (the commonest of
the falcons) are the shyest and wariest of all the
hawk tribe and the hardest to shoot. Both are
devoted to chickens, which they hug suddenly and
swiftly when nobody is about.
Cape York tells a plain tale of the
wire-and-whipcord men who carry the bushmen’s
mail:—
„ recent search for a missing' mailman in this Far
North recalls the fate of a few others who have dropped
off the map or came near doing it.
Eighteen years ago, a young fellow left Coen for Laura
but never got there. His body was found some time
after with a bullet hole in the forehead. It is surmised
that he got bushed while horse-hunting, and in despair
shot himself. The mailbags were supposed to have been
burnt by bush fires ; the only trace found of them were
the rims of a pair of specs, which were on the way down
for repairs. J
A few years later, a lad on the same track disappeared
His camp was found at the foot of Massey’s Spur ; a note
pinned to the mailbags, read : “ Please do not touch the
mail; am away horse-hunting." His tracks were fol-
lowed a few miles ; but, although large parties searched
the country for weeks, not a trace of him was ever
found. The blacks were debited with that corpse.
A year or two later another mailman, worn out by 1on«-
dry stages and poor horses, shot himself within sight of
the Coen post office. He wasn’t m ide of quite the same
stuff as the average way-up mailman.
Another northern mailman was drowned in the Archer
River while attempting to cross with the mail. Early
this year the rider on this same route missed the track
and five days later turned up at Musgrave Telegraph
station, 120 miles further south, having-- gone right round
his terminus (Coen) without striking a track. Again, last
month the Coen-Laura mailman was lost for 14 days.
His tracks showed that he had been travelling in a circle
for days ; yet, altboug'h very weak from hunger and
exposure, he had stuck to the mail right through. When
overtaken by the police he was half-delirious, and
attempted to escape, being under the impression they
meant to murder him and steal his cargo.
“ Konini ”: I had bought the Experi-
enced Soldier two drinks, and as there seemed
nothing else doing, I remarked that cannibalism
seemed to be still going good and strong; that
even in Sydney they’d bite a man to death.
Which led the Experienced Soldier to make the
following remarks :
“There’s nothing out of the common about this here-
cannibalism. British sodgers and sailors are cannibals,
being largely fed on the bones of dead blokes.
“Now, you stop and listen. I’ve fought all over this-
here world, and I know a bit of the inside of the game.
You ain’t bin to war? No. Well, buy the drinks while I
cut a sandwich.
“The first thing y’ find out in war is that the Guv’-
ment begrudges a private his tucker and cuts the
allowance down to the finest point. Why—me eyes, a
sodger or a sailor is gen’rally as empty as a drum unless
he can steal something. The second thing y’ find out is
that food contractors let nothing go to waste. When the
bones of the killed, men and ’orses, are bleachin’ on the
battlefield they are all gathered up and sent to the great-
mills at ’Ome, where they are ground up very fine.
Enormous quantities of this here bonedust is then mixed
with the flour used for making biscuits for the army and
navy.
“Now keep quiet; I’m tellin’you what I know. ’Ow
did a gold-stuffed eye-tooth get in a biscuit served out to
me at Beersdorp if it ain’t as I’m tellin’y’? A bloomin
tooth that nearly broke my jaw ! And look how our
blokes can fight! Shows you this here cannibalism ain’t
too rotten. Same with the Maoris. They used to scoff
the dead on ther stricken field, believin’"they inherited
their bravery. And, by Hang, they could fight a treat.
“ I reckon this here new Australian citizen force oughter
take on cannibalism. It would be the makin’ of them.”
Perhaps he was right; he’s had more experience
than I have. After all, I don’t suppose a man
would care much. Anyhow, I’m sending the Ex-
perienced Soldier’s suggestion on to the Minister
for Defence.
* * # *
“Kola”: “Midnight” (B. 3/11/10) says
he has failed to see white hawks in Victoria.
Well, it is his own fault; for, though not exactly
common, they are to be found all over the State.
They are not albinos, but are the white goshawk,
easily the finest of the hawk tribe. Probably
“ Midnight ” took them for cockatoos.
* * * *
“Montalex”: To “Midnight” (B.
3/11/’10). I have seen white hawks—once in
N.S. W. and twice in Vic. Was staying at a place
near Dandenong, when one morning a youngster
of the family rushed in to say that a strange
white bird had collared a chicken from the fowl-
run. Went out and saw the freebooter breakfast-
ing in a tree about 150yds. away. No chance
with a shotgun; so took a 22-Winchester to a
gable-window that commanded the position, got a
dead steady shot, and knocked over the marauder.
Found that he was an albino specimen of Falco
hypoleucus —an Australian analogue of the pere-
grine. Again, in the Kooweerup Swamp, was
lurking for a shot at a dump of teal, when
something white flashed in amongst them
too rapidly for me to see what it was;
but, weighted by the victim in its claws,
its retreating flight was slow enough to give
me a chance with a charge of No. 7. Again
it was an albino: this time—according to the
Melbourne Museum authorities—of the rare
species, F. subniger. The third white specimen I
saw near Katoomba. It was wheelingslowly round
at an elevation too great to let details be observ-
able ; but its flight was unmistakably that of a
falcon. Amongst many remarkable albinoes I
have seen in my time have been a white raven, a
white jackdaw, and (curious contradiction in
terms) a white blackbird.
EK'D READ UP BEFOREHAND.
"Oh, yas, befoah I left the Old Country I saw
pictuahs of those things youah making.
Theuah wurlies, for the blacks. But wheah
the blacks?"
‘ Climax ” : Can any other liar tell me
how emus manage the hatching business ? Have
frequently found nests with from eight to 10 eggs,
ranging from very fresh egg to very fairly ad-
vanced fowl; some, in fact, with feathers on, and
all in the same nest. Now, by the time the fresh
was hatched some of the rest would be
ancient history and out hustling for a living. Yet
it is very unusual to find any deserted eggs in a
nest. My theory is that the male bird takes the
juvenile fowls away as they come out, and gives
delivery to Mrs. E. when she reckons she has ful
filled her .contract. Or Mr. E. may do the “set-
ting” ; or he may not give the youngsters back at
all. I dunno—that’s why I’m asking.
THE EGG AND TURNIP GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
The sports were on at Bide-A-VVee
When Barrel’s splendid troupe came in,
And Barrel offered three-pound-three
A man of enterprise was he—
Which cash he ordered to be spent
On prizes for a skilled event.
At Bide-A-Wee they took his cash,
And went at night to see his show,
But did not hesitate to splash
His face with eggs, and rudely dash
Great turnips at his brow. They he
Ungrateful cows at Bide-A-Wee.
Next morn, in Delahunty’s bar.
The actor-manager was called
To give a noble pickle-jar
To William White, of Waratah,
Who by ten points had won the prize
Provided by the actor wise.
G. Barrel passed the jar to Bill,
And spoke a piece in sounding praise
Of games athletic, such as drill
Of mind and body. By what skill
Had William won the guerdon bright?
They answered him, “Thisfeller, White,
He hit you ofteuest lars’ night 1”
SILAS SNELL.


THE TEST MATCH. 19 -?—(From a Sketch by Our 'Chinese Artist.)
The Hanyang Steel Works at Hankow are landing large consignments of steel in New York at prices that cannot he quoted by the United States Steer Corporation, -News Item.
THE CHOW: “Play!”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
FIRE and ACCIDENT.
The Company with Australian Shareholders,
Australian Ideals, and all Its funds invested
In Australia.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES INVITED.
Head Office: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHOOPING COUGH.
This disease is more likely to be contracted
when a child has a cold. According to published
statistics, more deaths result from whooping cough
than from scarlet fever ; yet in all our experience
we have never heard of a case that did not recover
when Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy was used. It
liquefies the tough mucus, makes it easy to
expectorate, and renders the paroxysm of cough-
ing less frequent and less severe.*
Trade Mark
AND
m
'"V*S
For...
Outdoor Workers
Cooling
Refreshing*
_ Thirst Quenching
PERSONAL
ITEMS
King-Hall, who succeeds Poore as Britain's
naval chief on the Commonwealth station, had a
brother in Victoria some years ago. This brother
the late J. R. King-Hall—was a journalist, who
fed and tended the Ballarat STAB fora number of
years. For some years also he was on a London
paper, where he had a reputation for being proud
of his hyphenated name. Mostly, however, the
family has been in the admiral business. Father
King-Hall was one, and there is another brother,
Goodenough, in the same line.
A FIRST OFFENDER.
SANDY (who has "got religion"): “Girl! Who
made the world ?”
LITTLE GIRL (frightened): “P-p-please, I didn’t."
SANDY (sternly): “What d’you say?”
LITTLE GIRL (more frightened): “ W-w-well, if I
did I won’t do it again.”
S. Aus. has only one State pensioner—
ex-Judge Boucaut—who draws £l3OO a year after
over 30 years’ service on the Bench. He has just
entered his 80th year. The only other State
official entitled to a pension is Chief Justice Way,
who is 74, and has filled his present position for
34 years. He is also entitled to £l3OO a year.
Old Inky-wayfarer William Webb, who
died the other day in Camden (N.S.W.) Hospital
after an operation, was one of the numerous
journalists whom Henry Parkes quarrelled with.
Webb re-hashed some of Parkes’s bankruptcy
items, and the old man prosecuted him criminally
before Justice Faucett. But the jury disagreed,
and the prosecution was dropped.
Maoriland has been entertaining unawares
the heir to an Irish viscount’s~coronet—that of
Avonmore. Just at present he is plain Barry
Squance Yelverton, of Featherston; but he
happens to be a second cousin of the sixth
viscount, and the sixth viscount is rather short of
near relatives. So Squance gets a look-in. And
his blind neighbors hadn’t noticed that he was
any different from any common Billjim.
Joseph Tuck well, who had a very recent
funeral in Melbourne, could tell a yarn or two.
As long ago as 1851 he was an inspector of police
in Hobart Town, and Vandemonia had a few
people in those days who took some watching.
Then, when the rush set in to Victoria, he and
Jack Williams and one or two others crossed over
to Melbourne and joined the detective force. In
1860 he went to Dunedin (M.L.) as Chief Detec-
tive, and a bit later became Governor of Auck-
land Gaol. Even before coming to Australia he
had seen a thing or two —including the midnight
burial of George JV. in St. George’s Chapel,
Windsor.
The great Tolstoi, dead at the age of 82,
seems to have suffered from noises in the head
during his latter days. He left home and fled to
a monastery near Kaluga (the locality where
Napoleon I. buried his good luck) to escape the
roar of popularity, the shouts of interviewers,
and the mad rush of editors and reporters who
came to see him ; yet considering how soon the
world forgets its superannuated heroes, it seems
unlikely that at his age the cries of the world,
the flesh and the Devil outside bis castle gates
were quite so loud as he imagined. Just before
his exit he attracted a certain amount of atten-
tion by proposing to make a cash sacrifice of
£lOB,OOO, and his heirs seem to have turned
sour and remarked that at his age it was
easy to make cash sacrifices. He stayed a
very short time in his monastery, which had a
most unpronounceable and dispiriting name, and
then fled by train with the alleged intention of
becoming a Spirit-Wrestler. But November isn’t
a good month for very old men to flee anywhere
in Russia ; and the ancient novelist and philan-
thropist, who had probably got a chill in a badly-
drained sanctuary, passed out at a wayside
station.
In his latter days Tolstoi made a fetich of
renouncing things. As he insisted on others re-
nouncing things, he wasn’t the easiest man in the
world to live with. Aylmer Maude (“Life of
Tolstoi: Later Years ”) tells a characteristic yarn.
Tolstoi had loved a certain sweetmeat known as
Ankovsky pie. One day when Madame Konz-
minsky, a fervent worshipper, was sweeping out
his study, he approached her, and, making the
sign of the Cross, inquired solemnly: “Dost thou
renounce Ankovsky pie and all its evil works?”
And with equal solemnity she answered him:
“ I do ”
Though William McCourt never dis-
tinguished himself as a Speaker, he had a longer
reign in the N.S.W. Assembly than any of the
eight men who sat in the chair before him. Both
Arnold and Abbott were in
their tenth year ; MoCourt alone
completed a full decade. The
briefest reign was that of
Terence Aubrey Murray, father
of the Commonwealth’s chief
representative in Papua (now on
leave). Sweeping in all the
Commonwealth, Jenkin Coles,
of S. Aus., is an easy first in
the long-distance run ; he has
commanded “ Ordah !” for over
20 years. The late Charles
Cameron Kingston’s father sat
in the same chair over a space
of 23 years ; but G. C. Hawker
displaced him in two Parlia-
men ts.
The second son, Kenil-
worth, having lately died, there
now remain four of the children
that Henry Parkes left to his
country and his third wife. The
third wife and the country have
looked after them about equally
well. The eldest, Sydney, was
for years with Wm. McMil-
lan’s firm; but when the Mc-
Arthurs struck trouble, and the
machinery department was
closed, young Parkes and an-
other started out on their own
account, and are not sorry. Cobden, the third
son, is just thinking about a University life.
Henry is in England. There was only one daugh-
ter, Aurora, who is at least old enough to wear
hobble-skirts. What the lady’s inclination is in
the matter The Bulletin doesn’t know.
“ Old Sam Elyard,” who has died at Nowra
(N.S.W.), aged 94, was a brainy though eccentric
character. He was a pensioned Lands officer,
who retired on £4OO a year; but, as he was not
dead in 1873, theGovernmentthencuttheallowance
down by half. Elyard never slackened his efforts
to get the old allowance restored. He issued
tons of circulars setting out his case, and
only the other day addressed the “electresses
of N.S.W.” on the subject. Sam shouldered
many social reforms, and he was a scholar, too.
Thirty years ago he issued the Salem Standard,
a small monthly devoted to Hebrew literature.
One yarn is always told locally to illustrate his
eccentricity. Many years back, so the tradition
runs, a relative failed to keep his promise to
marry the girl, so Sam resolved to give her the
name of Elyard, any way. “And then they parted
at the church door,” the story ends.
Lady Dudley told the “ Maori Villages ”
in Melbourne last week that she hopes to see
them when they are in London. Which sounds
very like another unofficial announcement of an
impending move in the Dudley household.
Captain Simpson, the old skipper of the
wrecked Pericles, is now engaged by the N.S.W.
and Victorian Governments as an immigration
agent. His special job is to find passages for im-
migrants and see them berthed.
“Rad”: It is palpable that there is strong
antagonism between Queen Mary and Queen
Alexandra. This appears in amarkedly-promment
notification of the large, independent royal house-
hold set up by Alexandra. Further, she has
adopted a new house-flag, a mixture of Danish and
English, and she maintains her old national rankle
against the Germans, whether they be Tecks or
Hohenzollerns. Observe, also, certain recent
strenuous measures to bring Queen Mary forward.
She thought Alexandra ought to settle in Den-
mark. “Only a brief visit” notified the other
pointedly.
William H. Batten, a Ballarat identity,
has passed on. He early took to the sea for
bullion and adventure. Little bullion resulted,
but he secured the adventure on a Peruvian war-
ship, hunting down pirates. Subsequently he lit
out for Ballarat, via California. At Ballarat,
where he arrived in 1859, he was touched with
the gold fever, and had recoveries and relapses
during the rest of his days. He was one of the
most inveterate investors in the Ballarat district,
and lost a lot of his earnings in profitless holes.
Also, having a literary bias, he was the founder
of the Ballarat Mechanics’ Institute, and after-
wards its secretary; and lately he celebrated the
jubilee of his connection with his old hobby.
“The Islander” paddles his canoe up a
back-water of history :
Many years ago, one Neil Macfingall, described as “a
tall, dark, swaggering man,’' was in the employ of the
Clyde Trust as harbor-master at Glasgow. Later on, he
went into partnership with another man in a small fleet
of smacks, all of which were heavily insured. One by
one the little craft went down, and Neil and his partner
scooped the insurance money. The partner was a modest
man, and was rather inclined to minimise his profits ;
but Neil does not seem to have had any hesitation in
admitting them. He blossomed into a small shipowner,
and had terribly bad luck with his vessels, which were
continually foundering, always heavily insured.
At last the retail business became too small for him,
and he embarked upon the wholesale trade. He now
foundered ships in fleets. The underwriters were so
terribly hit that they became suspicious. Neil invited
them all to a great banquet in his mansion on the Gare
Loch, at which he condoled with them on their very
heavy losses. The guests sipped their wine and listened
solemnly, till one and all agreed that their host was not
such a bad fellow after all.
There was a small public house in Glasgow where Neil
used to meet his captains to transact business. The
publican, who was deeply indebted to Neil in money
matters, one day overheard him instructing one of his
captains to founder a ship, and even saw him hand the
captain the auger with which he was to scuttle her.
Believing he had Neil in his power, Boniface showed his
hand. Neil promptly had him clapped into gaol for
debt; and, either because he had no witnesses, or per-
haps because he was not believed, the matter for the time
rested there.
His continued success made Macfingall reckless, and
now, not content with taking the insurance money, he
actually started a store, and, taking the merchants’ car-
goes out of thedooined ships ere theysailed, he sold them
as “ remnants,” after filling their places in the holds with
sand and stones. At this time, the calico-printing busi-
ness was a great trade in Glasgow'. One fine morning
an old and wealthy calico-printer came meandering round
a corner on his way to business. Seeing a poor
woman selling remnants from a basket, and being
of a charitable disposition, he stopped, perhaps with
the intention of giving her a copper. Casually he
noticed the contents of her baskets. A& every printer
employed his own designers and printed his own designs,
which were practically all exported to India, he became
curious to see what his rivals in trade were doing. On
looking over the collection, he was astonished to find
some of his own designs. His first thought was that his
employees were robbing him, as all that particular brand
of calico had been shipped to India in a vessel belonging
to Neil Macfingall, which was then known to be at the
bottom of the sea; He accused the woman of stealing
the material. This she denied, and said “she had ob-
tained the goods from Neil Macfingall, who was well
known as a decent man and kind to poor people, letting
them have sundries cheap from his warehouse.” Another
calico-printer happening at this time to pass, he was
called to look at the remnants. He also found some of
his calico which should have been on board the lost
vessel. Putting two and two together, they informed
the police. Neil Macfingall was arrested, tried and
transported to Botany Bay. Whether he ever returned
to Glasgow or not, I do not know; but his story ends
with the words: “And he afterwards did well in Tas-
mania.”
Henry Gyles Turner, the old money-
changer of Melbourne, has completed a new book
“ The First Decade of the Australian Common-
wealth : A Chronicle of Contemporary Politics
1901-10.” It will be published by Longmans.
At the 71st an-
niversary of the
foundation of St.
James’s Church,
Melbourne, G.-G.
Dudley listened while
Archbishop Clarke
talked of many
things, including the
generous original
donors to the church;
and high aino n g
these stood John
Thomas Smith. This
was Melbourne’s
Whittington, seven
times Mayor the
famous Jacky
Tommy, staunch
churchman, though
he built the Queen's
Theatre and kept
the pub next door.
He went to England
in 1856 or there-
abouts to be knight-
ed, and was accom-
panied by his chap-
lain, Rev. C. T.
Perks, of Richmond.
Queen Victoria is re-
ported to have said :
“ Oh, what a vnlg;ir
man ! ” after an in-
terview. Anyway,
he returned plain
Jacky Tommy, but
brought Victoria’s
first donkey. John
Thomas always wore
a white belltopper
on his head, and
mostly a very short
cutty pipe, with the
bowl turned down,
in his face. When the news of the Eureka
Stockade battle came, he was mayor, and quickly
had every available gun in the hands of a citizen.
“Republic Proclaimed!” was the cry. J.T.’s
portrait and bust are in the Melbourne Town
Hall, with the inevitable frills to his shirt. He
was in Parliament too, and, as Minister of Mines,
would sit on the Collins-street doorstep in his
shirt-sleeves, smoking his cutty.
“Solemn” Lee, who made a commotion
in the N.S.W. Assembly last week by moving a
vote of no-confidence, had a brother who did the
same thing in another way many years ago. This
was Benjamin, who, whenM.P. for West Maitland,
had a round or so with another member on the
floor of the House. After that, in the interests
of law’n’order, they naturally made him a Police
Magistrate. The old gentleman—still pretty
strenuous —had his 85th birthday a week or so
back.
It is a great thing to be a sensational
murderer. Crippen, in his old, ordinary days,
was a shoddy sort of toothsmith and a hanger-on
to unsuccessful patent medicine concerns. Also,
he was small, faded, reddish, insignificant, and of
no account in the legs. Then Crippen hewed his
large, plump wife into several pieces, and buried
her, and bolted with a girl in boy’s raiment who
secured her unaccustomed trousers witli safety
pins. And the other day there was presented to
the Home Secretary a petition whereby 20,000
signatories expressed the opinion that the world
couldn’t get on without Crippen. Yet if the little
drab dentist hadn’t buried a dead, fragmentary
wife in a cellar he might have died of hunger or
any other unpleasant complaint in London with-
out any one of the 20,000 being even moderately
surprised. And death by hunger is a great deal
worse than being scragged after a good meal.
“F.Z.” thumbnails the man who hatched
out the Bullfinch, the new Westralian booin-bird :
“His father's a tailor”—everybody knows that now of
“Dorrie” Doolette. Well, if the ninth part of a man can
always produce a son so mentally and physically virile,
it’s a pity more don’t start as tailors. Sixteen years
ago Dorham L. came West—a lanky youth, somewhat
idealistic, but even then with much of Bret Harte’s
Jack Hamlin in his make-up ; he can gamble like the
Devil and with the Devil’s own luck. In the early days
he used to track the golden chance in regions where con-
ditions were hardest and young fellows d-n o p e d off like
flies. Between w’hiles he haunted a c-= camp in
Toorak, Ooolgardie—one of a party of four, another of
them was a musician-artist-pressman, who i to fiddle
music into his comrades as they lay out of o ~’ nights
—an adventurer who tripped round the wond a couple of
times before he settled down to a steady grind on the
Sydney press.
For a couple of adventurous years it seemed as if hesi-
tating fortune might abide with Dorrie ; then she took
herself off—till the other day. Father wanted him to
“go home” and take up the profession he was intended
for. But Dorrie hankered after life in the open, always
with a special trust in Southern Cross.
You’d never suspect him of being a literary man—a
greedy reader with sound taste and a retentive memory.
But tap him, and he’ll quote you the cream of Yeats and
Arnold and Henley, R.L.S., and Fiona McLeod, and Loti
and many more. One thing he never denied himself, and
that was literature. You could always meet decent com-
pany in his camp bookshelf, and depend on finding the
Spectator and the Athenaeum, and an up-to-date Ameri-
can novel knocking about. Even life in the goldfields
bush, which has few beauties except the sudden sheet-
ings of close-growing white and yellow ground-flowers
thatcomein the strange, hard spring, can be quite decent
under those circs.
And, though mostly he read, sometimes he wrote—and
verse at that, as The Bulletin files could show if he
hadn’t been content to let himself be read under (or, as
it happens in this case) over a pen-name.
A SONG OF THE SHIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The shirt of the late Edward VIL caused manv fervent
loyalists to stampede to a church fair at Launceston
(Tas.) last week.— The Bulletin, Nov. 10.
Oh ! Do not jeer at them wot feel
They’ve ’ad a touchin’ time,
And do not mock at them wot saw
A Specktakel sublime;
You ’ippocrits with vain Pretense,
Forbear to throw your Dirt—
You ’ave not seen in lovely sheen
King Hedward’s Noble Shirt!
They showed it at the Chapel Fair,
And Sairey Gamp and Me,
We went to spend one hevenin’ there,
4 'id taste the chapel tea ;
And there was crowds of Ladies there,
And Maidens young and pert,
And they did gaze in much amaze
On Hedward’s Noble Shirt 1
It was, hindeed, a ’oly sight—
It swung upon a nail ;
The harms was nicely straightened out
And sweetly ’ung the tail ;
And oh ! to think the Majestee
Of Hedward Great, 'oo died,
Was once confined within that Shirt,
And walked about hinside.
I sez, sez I, to Sairey Gamp,
“ I do not care ’oo ’ears,
The sight of that ’ere relic there
Is drivin’ me to tears ! ”
And then to me sez Sairey Gamp—
“ Oh ! ’Ow my Soul is ’urt,
To think I never ’ad the charnce
Of washin’ Hedward’s Shirt ! ”
Oh ! ’Ow can wicked wasters scoff
W’en such a sight is seen ?
’Ow can they dare “ to take It off,”
And show a mind unclean ?
Oh ! ’Ow can foolish wimmen laugh
And giddy maidens flirt
Before the Hawful Majestee
Of that Departed’s Shirt ?
QUEENSLAND.
MRS. HARSIS.
A FEAST OF FANCY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H\UTSIDE the shop, upon the pave,
Miusing, the coinless poet sighs—
“ Well spake the bard who penned
the stave,
* Drink to me only with thine
eyes ! *
“ Lo, I feast only with my mind,
And, op my glorious fancies hero,
Have richly on dream-oysters dined,
Unchecked by Konstantin or Spiro.
“ Yea, let those Dagoes from their
grime
Scowl at me, powerless to berate ;
In my mind's eye, Horatio, I'm
Already at my fourteenth plate ! ”
VICTORIA.
AUGUSTUS BLOWFLY.


)
3
vs
ft
4\
x
X
v
a
f
A
ft
N
m
m
m
i
y
t
N
Z.
/
1+
A
j*.
y
m
bC
/a
yr
y
A
is
<*
rv
&
#
<<
There s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia , CJ" %<? betted brand than the
i Three Castlesi ” — Thackeray , 11 The Virginians
THREE CASTLES
CIGARETTES
(Heavy Weights)
The famous brand o/ W. D. <SL H. O. WILLS.
In Pacßets and Flat Tins of lO and
Air-Tight Tins of 50.


“National” Gas Engines and Suction Plants
Known as the “Royal ” Gold Medal Engines and Plants, beat all comers
in England after exhaustive trials.
EXCELLENT. RESULTS FROM EITHER COKE OR CHARCOAL.
SOLE AGENTS, with experts from the English Works
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER U CO., 2 Circular Quay East, Sydney; 54 Queen St., Melbourne
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
“NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE?’
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYEB BROB. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maori land £5.000,000 loan, in spite of the
precipitous terms offered, was a rank failure. Only 7 per
cent, of it was applied for. Of course, it was under-
written, so Maoriland will get the money—at a price.
But when underwriters have to lift 93 per cent, of a loan,
it simply means that they have to go on unloading, it
may be for months, if may be for years ; and until they
have unloaded, the chances of floating' another loan are
just about nil. The fact that underwriters have to lift
the bulk of the loan shows that the Dominion has got
ahead of its present borrowing powers, so it has to pay
certain speculators a stiff price to discount its future
borrowing powers.
* # * *
The Savings Bank op Victoria
Written Re-
done, Earnings. Interest. Expenses. Off. serves.
1903.. £326,999 £216,503 £49,618 £19,913 £215,636
1904.. 347,955 265,616 49,445 19,039 229,491
1905.. 368,255 273,646 50,535 32,279 241,316
1906.. 388,279 287,686 51,636 14,046 276,227
1907.. 417,984 310,935 55,400 15,886 311,990
1908.. 456,727 332,951 55,069 16,355 361,342
1909.. 485,424 365,188 59,924 9,703 411,951
1910.. 538,697 413,733 64,499 35,111 434,305
The Savings Bank of Victoria has two departments—the
Savings Bank proper and the Advances to Settlers
branch. The table at the head of these remarks and
the remarks themselves relate to the transactions of the
Savings Bank proper. The earnings shown above include
those of the various reserve funds, less £229 deducted
for “ loss by fraud and costs.” An unusually large amount
is shown as written off. Twelve months ago there was a
Depreciation Fund of £45,200. This fund was established
many years ago to meet possible losses on investments,
and particularly 'boom-property foreclosures. Things
have, however, turned out well for the bank ; that is to
say, the prices which the public has been paying for pro-
perties have been creeping up nearer the level of the
boom-time. Therefore “ the sales effected have reduced
the balance of these properties to such an extent, and
the prices obtained for properties sold have been
such, as to justify the Commissioners in trans-
ferring to the Reserve Fund £20,000 of the
Depreciation Account.” At the same time, the trustees
say, they wrote various properties down by £19,637.
Part of this writing-down is not traceable in the balance-
sheet and profit and loss account. In the table, how-
ever, the figure has been adopted, and additions have
been made to the earnings of the reserve funds to
correspond. Apparently that is the way the accounts
are squared ; but it would make things more ship-shape
if the operations were set out in detail.
As far as can be traced the amounts written
<ff have been as follows :
Depreciation Bank Debentures
Fund. Premises. and Stock.
1903 .. £5,497 £14,416
1904 .. 4,029 15,010
1905 .. 7,279 25,000
1906 .. £1,949 12,097
1907 .. 3,151 12,735
1908 .. 16,355
1909 .. 9,703
1910 .. 19,637 18,474
In 1908 and 1909 the fund grew; and except for the
special writing off, it grew also in 1910, wherefore the
net amount written off in this last year was £18,923. As
to the necessity of the depreciation fund, this comparison
may be noted: —
1900. 1910.
Properties in possession .. £35,724 Nil
Properties foreclosed.. .. 303,509 £47,900
Total £339,233 £47,900
In view of that shrinkage, and of the fact that the Depre-
ciation Fund has actually been growing of late years, it
may be admitted that a special fund to help in the reali-
sation of old assets is no longer necessary. Yet the same
conditions which have made a big depreciation reserve
fund unnecessary at the moment may make one very
necessary in the future. For if prices have been so high
that the bank has been able to unload without loss, it is
probable that people who have got assistance to buy re-
cently will later on have to throw their securities on to
the hands of the mortgagee. At present the bank has
£1,559,612 outstanding in that form of security.
The bank’s money is derived from deposits.
The total has moved along very briskly :
1899 .. .. £8,517,006 1905 .. ..£10,896,741
1900 .. .. 9,110,792 1906 .. .. 11,764,179
1901 .. .. 9,662,006 1907 .. .. 12,792,590
1902 .. .. 10,131,604 1908 .. .. 13,428,676
1903 .. .. 10,341,857 1909 .. .. 14,101.710
1904 .. .. 10,582,808 1910 .. .. 15,417,858
The interest paid varies. Immediately after the troubles
among the private banks, 17 years ago, the rate was 4 per
cent, all round ; from 1895 to 1908 it was from 3 to 2 per
cent. Since the beginning of 1909 3J per cent, has been
allowed on sums up to £lOO, and 3 per cent, on sums
from £lOO to £250. The total amount at the command
of the trustees on June 30 was £15,855,834. This
includes the reserves. Slightly more than half the total
is invested in Government debentures and other Treasury
advances (in all £8,541,816) ; £1,856,282 is in loans to
public bodies (City of Melbourne, Board of Works, etc.) ;
£3,652,630 is in cash ; £1,559,612 in mortgages, £47,900 in
foreclosed properties, £190,000 in premises, and the small
balance in various trifles. Only about 12 per cent, of all
the funds are thus in non-liquid assets; and, with so
much in public securities (which means that the State
has pledged its whole wealth to repay them), the position
is so sound that the depositor who gives himself a mo-
ment’s thought about his security would burden himself
with a fan and an ice-making machine if he went to the
South Pole.
* * * *
The Western Australian Bank
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1903.. £20,974 17£ p.c. = £5,750 £12,224 £270,790
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 31,250 302,040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 17J- p.c. = 10,938 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17£ „ „ 10,938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 17| „ „ 10,938 10,295 337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20 ~ „ 12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.c.= 12,500 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 „ „ 15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,758 20 „ „ 15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 „ „ 15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 31,560 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,568 20 p.c.= 17,006 6,562 449,440
Premiums on new shares .. 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c.= 17,500 3,957 464,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 ~ „ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 „ „ 17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new shares .. 27,024 509,460
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.c.= 19,189 8,756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.c.= 20,000 7,206 538,398
That 20 per cent, is misleading: unless it is explained.
Twenty years ago the capital was £60,000, and the
reserves amounted to £82,273. Then the Westralian
Bullfinches began to be found in their nests, and the
State started to rapidly fatten on them. Already,
20 years ago, the bank had a very solid con-
nection, and was paying 17J per cent. Soon it was
found necessary to get in more capital ; but instead of
issuing it at par, or thereabouts, and thus giving the
shareholders a large immediate bonus, the management
very prudently strengthened the reserves at the same
time as it strengthened the capital, by only issuing
the new shares at a stiff premium. The last iot of £lO
shares were sent out at a premium of £l6; and the
balance not taken by shareholders pro rata were thrown
open for tender and brought a premium of £lB 18s. lOd.
as an average. Obviously to the man who pays £2B for a
£lO share, the 20 per cent. div. is really only a div. of a
sh ide over 7 percent. Nor was the price asked and got
for the last issue anything unusual: thus for the 1908
lot an average premium of £l7 2s. 3d. was realised.
Naturally, these premiums have swollen the reserve fund
very rapidly.
Even now, however, the directors don’t think
the shareholders have any too much of their own funds
in the business in proportion to the public’s mopey; so a
further issue is already talked about. On present figures
there really doesn’t seem much need for this. But take
the following comparison first: —
Sept., ’O9. Sept., ’lO.
Notes in circulation £127,972 £139,634 Inc., £11,662
Bills, etc 161,433 157,893 Dec., 3,540
Free deposits .. 974,306 1,229,637 Inc., 255,331
Deposits at interest 1,041,833 1,523,796 Inc., 481,963
Biquid assets .. 1,022,720 1,654,376 Inc., 631,656
Advances .. .. 1,890,030 2,083,983 Inc., 193,953
Premises _. .. 67,730 71,000 Inc., 3,270
The debts to the public total £3,050,961. Capital and
reserves combined are £738,398. Thus the shareholders
have £1 in the business for every £4 4s. held on behalf of
the public. That is by no means an exoessive pro-
portion. It is, in fact, only when the proportion drops
as low as £1 to £7 that the average Australian bank
thinks its position needs immediate strengthening. Some
even of the £4 4s. in the case of the Westralian Bank may
be disregarded, because the bank holds a large amount of
Savings Bank money, practically for safe custody. It is
this business which swells the free deposits on one side
and the liquid assets on the other; and of those liquid
assets no'less than £1,465,485 is in coin and bullion. So
the Westralian Bank probably hasn’t got more than £4 of
the public’s money in the ordinary way for every £1 of its
own, which is quite a low percentage. However, this paper
isn’t going to throw any bricks at any bank for strength-
ening its capital and reserves. The larger its own funds
in proportion to the public’s, the less its risks ; obviously
the bank which takes £7 of public money, and hires it
out, is liable to lose more than the bank with equal
management which takes only £4. On the other hand,
in good times the profits of the £7 bank are almost
bound to be larger ; and the shareholder in the bank
which risks less must be satisfied with less profit, under
normal conditions. Assuming that the Westralian Bank’s
new capital was in hand all the past term (it, at any rate,
carries the full half-year’s dividend), capital and reserves
combined only earned at the rate of £7 Bs. lOd. per cent,
per annum. Considering the comparatively small amount
of the public’s money of which the bank has the use, and
considering also the very large sum kept in coin and
bullion, there is nothing to coinplain of in this. There
are certainly several banks which show more : but, as be-
fore remarked, their greater risks must also be taken into
account.
■* •* * *
The Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd.‘(Sydney):
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1899.. £4,174 5 per cent. = £2672 £1,502 £17,435
1900.. 14,064 8 „ „ 4275 9,789 27,224
1901.. 15,291 8 „ „ 4285 11,006 38,230
1902.. 11,629 8 „ „ 4295 7,334 45,564
Loss.
1903.. 4,369 Nil 41,195
Profits.
1904.. 11,057 8 per cent. = 4300 6,757 47,952
1905.. 8,527 8 ~ „ 4300 4,227 52,179
1906.. 13,212 8 ~ ~ 4300 8,912 61,091
North Queensland Accident Co.’s reserves 976 62,067
1907.. 20,260 8 per cent. = 6000 14,260 76,327
1908.. 13,033 8 „ ~ 6000 7,033 83,360
1909.. 15,646 8 „ „ 6000 9,646 93,006
1910.. 23,212 10 „ „ 7500 15,712 108,718
As the next table shows, this thoroughly Australian office
has also been having less losses than usual: —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70 7 p.c. 327 p.c.
1900 .. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58’5 ~ 27'2
1905 .. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58‘2 „ 357 „
1907 .. 104,153 53,052 34,987 50’9 „ 33‘6 „
1908.. 114,117 62,109 42,905 547 „ 37’6 „
1909 .. 116,156 61,768 44,384 53’2 ~ 38‘2 „
1910 .. 124,218 60,286 47,911 48’5 „ 38'5 „
That is the best loss rate for many years, if not the com-
pany’s best for all time. The figures do not, certainly,
enable one to tell positively whether this was good luck
or good management. But one can get a hint. Between
1905 and 1907 there was a very big growth in net premium
income. Since then, though the growth has been steady
and substantial, there has been nothing extraordinary
about it, especially in view of the enterprise and push of
the office. There has, however, been a much larger growth
of gross premiums—from £166,030 in 1907 to £216,464 in
1910. But whereas the total of the reinsurances in 1907
was £61,877, in 1910 it wa5£92,251. From this it seems
pretty clear that the co. has seized the opportunity to
put its business on a safer basis. A progressive office
naturally likes to show larger figures each year. In
three years this co. has got £50,434 more business ; and it
has therefore been able to show a very fair net growth,
notwithstanding that it has reinsured £30,374 more of its
total. Where it would once keep a risk of (say) £7OOO on
one property or one city block (which in some cases is
practically the same as one property), it has evidently now
reduced its own risk to (say) £5OOO. Therefore the lower
loss rate is probably due more to good management than
to good luck. And, from the insurer’s point of view, the
position is stronger, too. An objection sometimes urged
against the Australian insurance co. is that its risks are
concentrated ,and that one disaster is liable to put it irre-
trievably in the soup. Well, the success of this co. shows
that'an Australian office can get a very fair-sized income
without running any risks of that kind.
As a matter of faet, this co. couldn’t afford to
take and keep business as fast as it has come in. It began
in a small way, and for some years its success was very
moderate indeed. Even now it has a paid capital of only
£75,000. Fortunately, its reserves have been growing
rapidly during the past few years, so that now the total
of capital and reserves is £183,718. Yet even that is
equal to only 148 per cent, of the net premiums for the year.
The co. has therefore acted very wisely in re-insuring a
larger proportion of its business. If the co. could rely
upon putting £15,712 to reserves for each of the next few
years, there would be no need to worry about getting in
more capital; but it is at least worth considering whether
the position would not be improved by the issue of more
shares. This, of course, would not be a suggestion of
weakness. It would merely be a reasonable determina-
tion to keep pace with the rapidly growing business.
In one important respect this co. is not far short
of being a model. That is, not only in the particularity
with which it sets out its assets, but as to the nature
of those assets. It has on fixed deposit and
short call no less than £105,250, and in Government
securities £36,169. This, of course, means a compara-
tively small interest return (just under 4 percent, on
the average of all investments, including properties); but
it is almost certain that 20s. in the £ will be there when
it is wanted, even though it may be wanted in a hurry.
And it is a very fine thing to be sure of getting 20s. in the
£ when you want it in a hurry.
The National Insurance Company of New
Zealand, Ltd. (Dunedin, Maoriland): —
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ & £
189!).. 20,028 pc. = 12,255 7,773 115,681
1900.. 26,388 12J „ „ 12,255 1000 13,133 128,814
1901.. 24,600 12j „ „ 12,255 12,345 141,159
Premiums on new shares .. 2,029 143,188
1902.. 32,436 12J p.c. = 12,500 19,936 163,124
1903.. 27,622 15 „ ~15,000 12,622 175,746
1904.. 38,414 15 ~ „ 15,000 23,414 199,160
1905.. 26,009 15 ~ ~ 15,000 552 10,457 209,617
1906.. 43,626 15 ~ „ 15,000 28,626 238,243
1907.. 26,096 15 ~ ~ 15,000 11,096 249,339
1908.. 30,591 15 ~ „ 15,000 15,591 264,930
1909.. 33,666 35 „ ~ 15,000 3234 15,432 280,362
1910.. 40,036 17J „ „ 17,500 22,536 302,898
This co., which until a couple of years ago was the
National Fire and Marine Insurance Co. of New Zealand,
brought itself under the Limited Liability law when it
shortened its title. It didn’t, however, transfer any
of its reserves to capital ; so the paid capital is
still only £lOO.OOO, or less than one-third of the
reserves. Of those funds, £54,000 is, however, a
re-insurance reserve ; that is to say, premiums put by to
cover unexpired risks. The co. is in a very strong posi-
tion. The most convenient way to judge an insurance
co.’s strength is to compare a year’s net premiums with
the total funds. Theoretically, the year’s premiums
cover the losses and other outlay which the co. antici-
pates on account of the risks taken. This co.’s capital
and reserves amount to 318 per cent, of the year’s pre-
miums. In 20 leading British cos. the average last year was
161 per cent. Thus the National of M.L. has, in proportion
to its risks, almost exactly twice as much money and
other assets as the average of the British cos. Put in
another way, while the average British co., with the
same premium income as the National, could this year
stand claims and other outgoings of about £320,000, the
National could stand the racket to the extent of £525,000.
The comparison ought to make the National of M.L. feel
good. And it ought to make the Maorilander who passes
by his own offices feel mean.
The one thing which this paper isn’t very keen
op in connection with this office is the excessive amount
which it has put into mortgages. Mortgages may be all
right; but they are not only not the safest form of in-
vestment, but they are a class of security which can’t be
realised swiftly ; and a fire office may at any unexpected
moment want to realise very swiftly. Fires have a habit
of dropping in without notice ; and they don’t wait until
mortgagors are “ flush ”to do it. On the contrary, it has
been said that fires are most numerous when mortgagors
have the most trouble to pay up. About 65 per cent, of all
the investments are in mortgages. Most of the balance is in
debentures (unspecified) and on deposit. Naturally the
interest return is higli—about £4 18s. per cent, on the
average amount invested last year. It would be a fair
thing to put by J per cent to a depreciation fund. Even
then the interest would just about pay the increased
dividend, leaving practically the whole of the profit from
the insurance business to be added to reserves.
Profits last year were unusually robust. This
explains why
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59'2 p.c. 32’0 p.c.
1900 .. 102,264 54,991 99,950 53’8 „ 29'4 ~
1905 .. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54’8 „ 33’8 ~
1907 .. 110,035 62,727 36,925 57'0 „ 33’5 ~
1908 .. 113,171 59,504 39,483 52'6 „ 34'9 ~
1909 .. 119,146 60,201 42,645 50'5 „ 35'8 ~
1910 .. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47’8 „ 34’9 „
The loss rate was thus under the average ; and every 1 per
cent, saved on the present premium income means over
£1250 more left in the till. Yet premium income
hasn’t increased at all rapidly. The past year’s showing
is the best, however, which probably indicates that
Maorilanders and Australians with insurances to place
begin to realise the superior strength of this and other
Australasian offices.
* * * *
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Westralia)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., ’04.. 29,717 32p.c. = 16,213 346 13,158 128,601
Premiums on new share issue .. 5,265 133,866
Sept.,’o4.. 19,571 24 p.c. = 12,174 326 7,071 140,937
Securities written up .. .. 1,350 142,287
Mar., ’05.. 24,706 32 p.c. = 16,232 238 8,236 150,523
Sept.,’os.. 19,663 24 „ „ 12,174 267 7,222 157,745
Mar., ’06.. 24,383 32 „ ~ 16,232 186 7,965 165,710
Sept.,’o6.. 13,038 24 „„ 12,174 832 32 165,742
(And Div. Tax.)
Mar., ’07.. 24,601 24p.c. = 12,783 617 11,201 176,943
Sept.,’o7.. 14,528 24 ~ ~ 12,783 1020 725 177,668
Mar., ’OB.. 22,829 24 „ „ 12,783 786 9,260 186,928
Sept.,’oB.. 15,265. 24 „ „ 12,783 - 697 1,785 188.713
Mar., ’09.. 24,743 24 ~ ~ 12,783 1777 10,183 198,896
Sept.,’o9.. 17,355 24 „ ~12,783 1500 3,072 201,968
Mar., ’lO.. 27,223 24 ~ ~ 12,783 2229 12,211 214,179
(Pref. div., 6 p.c.)
Sept.,’lo.. 17,350| 2 gP- ( C ’“ 12 ’J|||ll67 2,974 217,153
Six months ago the shareholders were offered one cumu-
lative 6 per cent. pref. share for every three ordinaries
they held. A few were not applied for, apparently, and
26,253 have been issued. This accounts for the appear-
ance of a pref. dividend in the list. There was no
pressing need for new capital; for the total lia-
bilities six months ago were only £51,887. Still,
there was a bank overdraft of £34,084, and evi-
dently the directors thought shareholders might just
as well get the 6 per cent, as the bank. So the overdraft
has been reduced to £6lOO. The idea of paying a dividend
of something less than 24 per cent, for a few terms, and
thus wiping out the debt without taking on a permanent
mortgage, was seemingly regarded as too absurd alto-
gether. Still, some perfectly sane people would have
done it that way. The only visible objection is that that
scheme might have meant bigger profits and therefore
bigger dividends by-and-bye ; and a dividend that soars
above 24 per cent, is likely to attract attention. There is
something in that ; on the other hand, it is certainly
objectionable to impose cumulative pref. capital on a
business which is not hard up, and is not obliged to offer
concessions in order to get in money.
The co. has had a rather remarkable career.
In its first few years it appears to’ have been managed
anyhow. Further, many of the shares were held by
Victorian land boomers ; and when calls were made on
them there were wholesale forfeitures. Then the manage-
ment was changed ; and just when it had been put right,
Ooolgardie started the rush of thirsty people westward.
After that the co. swam in a sea of glorious dividends.
As at September, 1900, the reserves were £58,155 after
paying the dividend. Subsequently 20,290 new 2§s.
shares were issued at a premium of £1 ; and, as shown
above, the present reserves are £217,153. Thus the 10
years’ additions to reserves have been :
Present reserves .. £217,153
Reserves, Sept., 1900 .. £58,155
Premiums received .. 20,290
78,445
Surplus Profits in 10 years .. .. £138,708
Besides those additions to reserves, large amounts have
been written off plant and machinery—£34,7s9 in the
10 years. The plant and machinery, which cost £89,667,
stands in the books npw at £39,418. The amount written off
there, by the way, is not shown in the table. The depreci-
ation of plant, etc., is charged direct to profit and loss ;
the amounts shown in the table as written off are in reduc-
tion of the leasehold liability, trade and guarantee
account. Nothing has been written off brewery premises
or hotel properties. Some years ago a start was made ;
then, it was alleged, values tiad increased so much that
further writing down was totally unnecessary. In fact,
the small amount written off was written back again.
Practically all the co.’s reserves have been put into hotel
properties (£204,289). If, therefore, anything happens to
that basket, there will be a smash. And it isn’t at all
sure that nothing will happen to the basket. The
brewery may not suffer ; but the tendency unquestion-
ably is to reduce the number of pubs. And that’s where
this co., with its huge pub asset, may get severely
bumped.
* * * *
Tooth and Co.’s new issue will run to 100,000
shares. Shareholders will get one for every nine now
held. Payment for the lot will be made from the reserve
fund. In the investment market the stock has run
up to 475. That pans out this way : Nine shares at 475.
= 4235. Add the bonus share =lO shares for 4235. Assum-
ing the 10 per cent. div. is continued = 20s. per annum =
a shade under 4f per cent, on the purchase money. To
get a return of 5 per cent, an investor cannot pay more
than 445. 6d. for the old shares cum, rights.
* * * *
Harkison, Jonhs and Devlin, Ltd., wool-
brokers, etc. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1899.. £14,424 8 p.c. = £B,OOO £4,000 £2,424 £24,236
1900.. 12,741 8 „ „ 8,000 2,000 2,741 26,977
1901.. 6,120 7 „ „ 7,000 10,000 16,097
19u2.. 11,192 7 „ ~ 7,000 2,500 1,692 17,789
1903.. 9,014 7 „ „ 7,000 2,000 14 17,803
1904.. 8,845 7 „ „ 7,000 2,000 17,648
1905.. 11,778 7 „ ~ 7,000 4,778 22,426
1906.. 14,805 7 „ ~ 7,000 5,000 2,805 25,231
1907.. 17,767 7 „ „ 7,000 5,000 5,767 30,998
1908.. 13.568 7 „ ~ 7,000 3,000 3,568 34,566
1909.. 17,721 8 „ ~ 8,000 9,721 44,287
1910.. 23,295 10 „ „ 10,000 13,295 57,582
Of the 10 per cent. 2 per cent, is paid by way of bonus,
which may be the directors’ manner of hinting that
future 10 per cents, depend upon things which the man-
agement can’t swear to at present. The co. began 28
years ago, and presently put a very large sum into free-
hold wool-and-produce premises at Circular Quay. To
do this and finance customers whom it couldn’t avoid
financing, it had to go pretty deeply into debt, as the
following shows: —
1895. 1900. 1909. 1910.
Debt on mortgage £97,000 £78,000 £50,000 £45,000
Other debts .. 77,383 115,605 66,380 104,052
Freeholds (cost).. 179,514 179,514 189,514 189,514
Total written off
freeholds .. 9,514 26,014 47,514 47,514
Advances, etc. .. 121,770 173,082 123,168 170,634
For many years it kept its dividends down, and used the
substantial surplus profits to pay off the mortgage. It
hasn’t always shown the surplus profits as added to
reserves ; as the tables show, it has applied considerable
sums to writing down freeholds. But profits, whether
written off or not, have been available for reducing
the debt; for profits don’t vanish into thin air simply
because they are used to write down the book value of
premises or other property. In this ease it will be seen
that in the past 10 years J. 33,000 has been paid off the
mortgage ; and that means (say) £1320 less a year to pay
in interest; which also means that, even if it only had
the same income now as it had 10 years ag r o, the co.
could pay 1£ per cent, more dividend through its saving
of interest. But while it has paid off some of the
mortgage on its property, it has lately greatly increased
its other debt. This it has had to do to finance its
“ advances, etc.” The nature of this latter asset is not
disclosed ; it just appears as : “Amounts due to co.,
£170,634.” Probably it consists mostly of advances
against wool and other produce.
The profit for the year shows a big spring.
Commission charged on most transactions doesn’t vary
much from year to year ; and, as nearly everything has
been bringing high prices—wool and stock especially
—the commissions have, of course, been fat. Also,
there has been a brisk market for pastoral and other
country lands, and there have been rich pickings in that
business too. How long the activity will last nobody
knows, of course. The most comforting reflection for the
H., J. and D. shareholder is that, even if the profits had
been only half as big in the past year, a 10 per cent. div.
would still have been possible. Further, from the fact that
nothing has been written off premises for the last couple
of years, it seems that, in the opinion of the management,
that asset is now down to bed-rock. So everything in the
garden is blooming.
* * * *
Re the Colonial Mutual Life (B. 10/11/T0).
There appears to be, officially, no objection at all to the
proposed committee of investigation, provided, of course,
the committee is a competent one. In fact, the
management (which has undergone a good many
changes in the last couple of years) seems to be rather
anxious that a committee should see what is going on in-
side ; it believes that it could get a very good advt. out
of the report that a committee would make. The Aus-
tralian business written in the current year is at least
twice as large as that done in the same part of last year,
and the expense rate is lower—and these would be cheer-
ful circumstances to go on with.
* * * *
The Westralian Government offers a good
gamble with its new Bullfinch town-site lots. Terms are
10 per cent, on the fall of the hammer and the remainder
in four equal instalments. Thus for £lO per £lOO one can
hold the option on a front-street block for at least three
months. Naturally there were several thousand specula-
tors at the sale. Those believing in the future of the
field, those with a sale to J. Bull hanging in the balance,
and those having the Bullfinch at stake went in to make
things lively ; and the result was an average of about £7
a foot all round, front and back streets. That all the
blocks will be kept by the buyers is not anticipated, and
the Government will have to peg its level best to rake in
the £25,000 represented by the sale of the 56 allotments.
Yet even that £25,000 isn’t a record for a Westralian
Government town-site sale. For • instance, the first
auction at Broad Arrow topped £28,000. To-day Broad
Arrow is dead, and the buildings have been shifted to
Kalgoorlie and Boulder whenever they were shiftable.
Rates and taxes on the land which couldn’t be shifted are
avoided by the truly Westralian plan of transferring the
freehold to some one in the cemetery.
* # TT
London is a little puzzled to know what the
Bullfinch find really means. Last week it was induced
to believe that the lode ran east and west, and put up
money to purchase a granite-strewn patch of country
east of the Bullfinch. This week it is being assured that
the lode runs a little west of north, and a 24-acre lease,
called the Main Lode, is being shown with Bullfinches
building nests all over it. It is an old story. But, so
far, flat-catchers in the Great Smoke continue to have a
most annoying habit of asking experts to visit and report.
And then they mostly don’t buy.
* * * •n
Bullfinching is developing a new method of
company promotion and general publicity. The keynote
was struck in the engagement of one of Perth’s best
gallery-men as a private secretary to point the way to
political and journalistic inner sanctums. On the
Bullfinch leases themselves a man is told off simplv to
pan off samples for curious visitors with a kind of “fake
what you like ! ” air. Now the last crushing of the old
owners is celebrated at a gorgeous dinner at the Palace
Hotel, Pe'rth. After a particularly dry time around the
Perth Terrace and on the fields, the Bullfinch has come
like a new pipe-line from the cellars of Heaven.
* * * *
Despite all the reports and telegrams, visits
along the line of the Bullfinch grow tedious. One gets
tired of running out to alleged 20oz. finds, or to inspect
lodes which go 70z.; so the question becomes commoner :
“ What does it bulk ? ” In many eases all that is visible
is a 2dwt. prospect. If you remark that that is nothing
to wire about, there is the prompt reply that “ the Bull-
finch at top did not go too good,” and no one knows what
may be underneath. Just so! But to test the owners’
faith, propose a working option, and you will find your-
self told to go to Gehenna. Twelve thousand acres have
been pegged around Southern Cross, and in the lot there
is not £lOO worth of work done save at the Bullfinch and
those mines which were in exisience before the rush.
Deeming, the gentleman who used to live at the Southern
Cross, could have dug more and deeper holes in a week
without help.
* * * *
One syndicate at Bullfinch had champagne on
the strength of a cable from London that things would


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/- ; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In. Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Huntkr Struct, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. St
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse St Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* • • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston*
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell's
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger" Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent, economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipes and boilers with Bell’s Asbesi os
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Svdney.*
* * * *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing ” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465): —“The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenridge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables with longitudinal riffles.. has
been greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks:
“One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability to separate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made by any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wilfley Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [1
*• * + *
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
made by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only genuine,
reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’ name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay', Sydney, who
carry large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [2
* * • •
The Financial Times, London, in its issue of
9/10/’OB, comments as follows upon the last report of The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited: “We
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in 12
months can secure proposals for more than a million and
three-quarters, and issue 4853 policies for £1,278,000.
However vigorous the driving may be, such a result could
not be attained if the Society did not offer what many
people want.”*
* * * ■*
WOOD PIPE lasts as long as the best c.i. pipe
and four times as long as steel. Economy and ease in
handling are further strong points. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * e
Patents. — Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Grifflith and Hassell, registered Patent
Attorneys for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years ExpertSalesman.)*
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of allgrades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are-
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks on hand.*
* * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fall
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
*•**■■*.
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * ■* *
Assayers, Mink Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000. grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
be all right if the expert said “ Yes.” Three members of
the syndicate journeyed to the Cross with the
dulv escorted him to the lease. Just as h e had finish c
sampling-, a nice piece of rock happened to be found,
which “might as well be put in the sample, as one of
the visitors remarked. “ I’ll put that in separate noted
the expert. Result—general sample, nd ; piece of rock,
ounces per ton. With a “ What did you take me for?
air the expert left, and the party did not travel with him
either. t *
* * *
There will soon be a labor trouble of a new
sort in Westralia. Already truckers and miners are
scarce ; and either the new companies at Southern Cross
or the old ones at the Golden Mile will have to go short.
Throughout the whole State there is a loud cry for labor ,
even the banks have “Situations Vacant ads. in the
papers. The Railway Department is praying that there
will be no great increase in the harvest, otherwise the
railways will be in a mess ; and the farmer gives a warm
welcome to any swaggie he meets on the road. Which
last, by the way, has impelled the Workers Union to talk
£2 a week and tucker.
* * *
The Golden Mile is right out of the limelight
for the time being. It is just as well, for some of the old
mines wanted some breathing space, and the directors
badly needed an opportunity to size up things, By
Christmas the Boulder may emerge from the c oud cast
over it by the appearance of graphite and broken lode-
bodies, and possibly it may show that the *_Booft. level
has passed the broken zone. The Horseshoe and Asso-
ciated will require more time, and some new finds are
sorely wanted in that direction.
* * * *
Kusa, the French inspector of coal mines who
is visiting- the Golden Mile to g-et some experience of the
Golden Horseshoe, is keeping" himself busy. He has a
line to follow in the report of Professor Liveing, who, m
his monograph on the Associated, talked much about
erratic variations of the country ; but whether he will be
able to put his finger on the crux of the position is a
matter of some brisk wag-ering-. A man with a moderate
amount of common-sense, and, in particular, a knowledge
of business organisation, would strike the keynote of
the cause of trouble inside a few da\ r s. Meanwhile, an
inspiring- hustle pervades the Horseshoe, and hopes of
better thing's in the way of returns are still whispered.
* * * *
Professor Liveing’s report on the Associated
(W. A.) is a milk-and-water document which mi<rht have
been obtained at the cost of a few shillings from any
intelligent miner along the belt. Briefly, he excuses the
management in part for the extraordinary drop in the
estimates —sonie half million tons were withdrawn shortly
after the announcement of their existence —on the plea
that the system of making up estimates of ore and values
on the three-sided method adopted on the Golden Mile is
misleading, the ground beinsr liable to such erratic
behavior. The estimate of ore is also pulled down from
lOdwt. to between 6dwt. and 7dwt. The erection of
new machinery is condemned, pending further explora-
tion, which should consist chiefly of sinking the shaft to
2394 ft. to cut the Australia East lode section. Stopes
should be on the shrinkage system wherever possible, and
t he cavernous holes made in the ore-channels, so provoca-
tive of fallen ground and protests from miners, should be
limited. Stripped of geological verbiage, the report
demands one thing—developmen t. And how the directors
will fit this in with a lifelong policy of piling up machinery
remains to be seen. One thing is certain —unless they
order some vigorous development work, such as has been
done on the Perseverance during the last 12 months, they
will find themselves out of a job, or out of fees, for the
mine will close down.
* * * * *
Oroya Links (W.A.), whose dividend caused a
sniff of surprise even amongst the most hardened share-
sharks, signalised the distribution of the thrummer arid
the appearance of a new manager by making a loss of
£1035 for October. The return' is not a nice one ; £8243
was got from 7367 tons. The cost of getting this was
£7BOB. Development ran into £1379 and capital costs
were £9l, the total costs being thus £9278. The un-
favorable position has been caused by the sudden short-
age of Oroya reserves. Link holders, observing this, are
looking angrily at the profits made by the Oroya from the
tailings heap ; for that was precisely the asset that was
not handed over. The nice result last month was £3015,
and in September £3140.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W. A.) makes a fine show with
the latest development —9ft. of ore at the 1475 ft. worth
435. This came after Loreing’s assurance that there was
nothing to worry about. Yet the market in this stock is
very heavy. * * »
One effect of the Southern Cross rush has been
the revival of interest in fields unheard of for many
years. A claim at Kunanalling has given 470 z. 3dwt.
from 14cwt. of stone, and the sands are reserved for
treatment. Other claims pegged near at hand have un-
fortunately not panned out anything to please the eye.
The Binduli rush has petered out, and hopes of a parallel
Golden Mile a few hundred yards from Kalgoorlie have
faded right away. A rush set in at Borarra, near the
Golden Ridge, the successful locally-run mine ; arid on
the strength of some “floaters.” Bonnievale, near Cool-
gardie, has-had some attention. Altogether the pegging
fever has been more acute than W.A. has known before
in this century. # #
Since getting off its last sick-bed the Broken
Hill Junction hasn’t felt strong enough to show the
public what it could do in the way of mill work. The last
time the co. threw its hand on the table was when the
half-yearly report was published. In that report
a peculiar statement was made by the general
manager, as true, no doubt, as it was ingenuous.
He said : “In comparing the grades of crudes
treated from April 9 to May 22, the average shows 12;4
per cent, lead and BToz. silver; for the following six
weeks the average shows 10 - 43 per cent, lead and 7‘Boz.
silver ; a falling off in grade when an increased tonnage is
called for.” That’s just the trouble all the time at the
Junction. And it is one reason why the co. lost 10s. 2d.
per ton of crudes on the 16,640 tons treated during the
half-year. That tonnage produced only 1985 tons
of concentrates, assaying 54 '7 per cent, lead and 23‘30z.
silver, showing that it took 8 - 3 tons of crudes to
make one ton of concentrates. With lead at £l3 ss. per
ton and fine silver at 2s. 4d. per oz., a ton of these con-
centrates (allowing a 925. per ton returning charge) would
be worth £5 7s. 3d. per ton on trucks at Broken Hill. As
it takes B’3 tons of crudes to produce one ton of concen-
trates, and as the working costs were 21s. 4d. per ton of
crude ore, then the ton of concentrates would cost
£8 17s. Id. to make. In other words, unless the Junction
has greatly improved its mining and mill work, the co.
would still be losing 695. lOd. per ton of concentrates
with present metal prices. This month it is expected
that costs will be reduced by about 3s. per ton of ore. But
will even that imprpyement last? It is doubtful, if the
co. is going to continue breaking ore in the old crushed
workings.
* * * *
Main Ridge (N.S.W.) comes up thus early for
reconstruction. The new co. will be in 25,000 shares of
10s. each ; 22,000 of these will go share per share to the
old co. on payment of Is. per share—which means plainly
“ Back up or forfeit.” The plant will be altered and more
development work done before the mill starts again.
Altogether, it has been a poor business, full of miscalcu-
lation and hard lying.
Bookham gold mine, near Yass (N.S.W.), will
soon be deep enough to open out a level at 100 ft. Pros-
pects are said to show an improvement; but statements
about this mine are extremely vague, and somehow the
atmosphere doesn’t seem too good. Another shaft 612 ft.
north of No. 1 is down a few feet, and the reef over a width
of 3ft. is said to be worth Joz. per ton. It may be re-
membered that the prospecting shaft ran into much
higher values at 70ft., so the sinking of No. 2 shaft will
be closely watched.
•* * * *
Cosmopolitan, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), crushed 143
tons for 192cz. by amalgamation and lOoz. in concen-
trates. The previous return (month) was 253 tons for
3520 z., with 40oz. in concentrates. The shoot is shorter
than had been hoped for, but the reef is going down
strongly.
* * * *
Mt. Drysdale, Cobar district, is getting more
attention on the strength of the cutting of the reef in the
south drive at the 560 ft. level. A 3ft. body is said to be
worth 2oz. On the south side a bore found the lode at
about 70ft. from the shaft, and said it was worth from
6oz. to Boz. ; though it isn’t safe to take the word of any
drillings on the matter of values. Still there is no doubt
that a lode of some sort is there ; and it looks as if there
is at least 160 ft. of it, since in the north drive the thing
was cut 90ft. from the shaft.
Sunny Corner (N.S.W.) is getting restive under
the long idleness of its principal mine—or what was its
principal mine once. Certainly there isn’t much of Sunny
Corner left, but what there is of it talked to the Depart-
ment the other day. So far as can be ascertained, a
whole six tons of ore has been mined in the past eight
years. The Department seemed to think that this wasn’t
exactly rushing things, and the lessees —now understood
to be one of the big banks —have been told that they
must either apply for suspension and have the matter
adjudicated upon, or get work. The bank, it seems, says
that a transfer is being negotiated with a French firm ;
but meantime Sunny Corner township gets no more
numerous and no fuller about the belt.
* * * *
Good rain has fallen in the Cloncurry dis-
trict (Q.), Cloncurry and Hampden getting 3in. and
Mount Elliott l£in. The Mount Elliott weirs are over-
flowing, and a plentiful supply of grass throughout the
district is assured. The rain threw the Duck Creek
and Malbon bridges a bit out of plumb, which looks as if
the foundations are not of the best, as this lot is
nothing to what may be expected during the wet season
later on. The railway is getting itself finished very
slowly—72 miles of surface line in two years, and it is
still doubtful when it will be ready to hand over. Coke
for the Elliott mine and other merchandise is being
brought by train, but passengers are refused. At Hamp-
den about half a mile of railway siding is beingconstructed,
to allow coke to be dumped into the bins at smelters.
The erection of the latter and the converters should be
completed by about March. Piddington, late of Oadia
(N.S.W.), is the co.’s metallurgist, and has the supervis-
ing of the erection of the treatment works. Elliott’s
October production was 560 tons blister from 4680 tons
smelted ; they also worked up matte from stock equal to
another 56 tons blister. The blister copper carries about
£7 or £8 gold and silver. The mine is opening up well,
and at the 550 ft. level, although the lode bulks low for
this district, it'shows some fine blocks of sulphides in the
drive, going about 18 per cent, copper. This looks well
for lode values when they get into the rich part of the
shoot in about another 120 ft. But Elliott’s market price
is getting very dizzy : and unless there is a development
of basic ore underneath to give the mine some perma-
nency, somebody will be almost certain to be hurt. It will
. be all a matter of getting away in time.
* * * *
A yarn has been going about that Hampden -
Cloncurry is “worth from £4 to £5 of gold per ton.”
That is how it is printed ; it isn’t considered necessary to
explain that it is the copper and not the ore that may
contain £4 worth of gold. There are appreciable quan-
tities of gold in the ore, but the manager finds it impos-
sible to say at this stage how much gold the copper will
contain. Mt. Elliott’s blister contains loz. 13dwt. of
gold, but it is uncertain how much of it will be paid for
by the refiners. The blister in this case is shipped to
Liverpool (Eng.). Things no doubt have been improving ;
yet, taking a sanguine view of present Hampden-Clon-
curr.v reserves, there may be 20,000 tons of copper in
them, worth net, at present prices, £1,000,000. The
chance of getting £1 per share (£250,000) in dividends out
of a round million pounds’ worth of metal is not the
surest thing on earth ; wherefore, those who buy at pre-
, sent prices will have to depend on developments either in
the mines or in the copper market to give them a profit
—presuming, of course, that they are investing and not
share-speculating.
Mount Cuthbert (Q.) is 78 miles from Clon-
curry, so the cost of carrying coke, etc., is a serious
handicap. Shareholders have stuck to the show in the
hope that a railway from Cloncurry to Normanton would
turn up ; and they are still hoping, as Kidston is in a rail-
way-building humor. The mine contains bulky ore re-
serves,worth about 8 per cent, copper ; and as some of the
ore is carbonate of iron, it should prove easy to treat. A
broking firm has offered to take up the unissued shares at
Is. 2d. net. Some present shareholders snort because the
issue won’t bring the mine to the productive stage, and
they see a probable reconstruction in the distance. Still,
the offer is equivalent to the calls paid, on the present
issue, and immediate prospects don’t justify much of a
premium. If the transaction comes off there will be
240,000 shares in the co.; but it looks as though the
directors are not dead-sure of their ground.
Great, Fitzroy (Q.) expects to have its flotation
plant ready by the end of the year. If it is a success it
may revolutionise the treatment of low-grade copper
ore ; and Mount Morgan, Which has such enormous quan-
tities of low-grade reserves, is no doubt on the close
watch. A recent return from Fitzroy shows an extraction
of 191 tons copper and 9780 z. gold. 191 tons = 19,100
units copper and 9780 z. =19,560dwt. gold, which make a
remarkably close tally. Running right through the re-
turns there is, approximately, soz. gold per ton of
copper, which is equivalent to ldwt. gold to every unit
of base metal. With such a consistent average, experi-
ments are not likely to be dropped till a profit shows up
—unless, of course, conditions change for the worse at
increased depth. So far, little work has been done
below No. 3 level, although what has been done at the
north end has proved a big make of ore.
* * * *
Carrington United, outside Charters Towers,
is in trouble again, now that the mill returns of free gold
have become poor. In its last half-year the mill treated
1171 tons for £934 worth of gold and a large quantity of
concentrates. There is practically nothing to go on with
after paying for some additions to the mill, so the co.,
with its long tail of shares, has to face a call. It is not
so long since a sale of concentrates and the mill returns
brought in enough to pay a dividend. The call is really
required to improve the concentrating mill and add a
sintering plant, so that, after smelting, copper-matte
may be sent awav instead of concentrates.
* ' * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, crushed 250
tons for £1741, or at the rate of £6l9s. per ton. This came
from the underhand stopes adjoining the New Brilliant
Freehold boundary. Larger crushings will be taken out
when the shaft is through to No. 5 and No. 6, which are
the deepest levels in the mine. Shaft sinking should be
completed before the end of the year. As to dividends,
returns have rattled up and down between £l4 and
£5 175., and payments can’t, therefore, be foretold with
any degree of accuracy. It is a gamble pure and simple.
* * * *
A subsidy of £5OO has been obtained by the
holders of the old Moonstone, one of the first-worked claims
on Charters Towers. For years it was pottered at by
fossickers ; but a local co. has been knocked together to
give it another trial, with the aid of the grant.
Einasleigh (Q.) is building the first unit of the
Elmore flotation plant, which should handle 40 tons of
ore per day. If the process answers there should be a
wide field for it in the back country, where it costs too
much to bring coke to the ore and too much to take the
ore to the coke. Einasleigh is sending a daily train-load
of its better-grade stuff to Chillagoe ; the assay value has
been slightly under 7 per cent, lately. The monthly out-
put is over 2000 tons.
r * * * *
Developments in connection with the oil-bore at
Roma (Q.) turned into a fresh page the other day, when
the co. was “carpeted” for non-fulfilment of labor con-
ditions. The co. pleaded that the boring co. had stopped
owing to the pranks of the gas, and that £OOOO had been
spent, anyway. Then the Mines Minister talked—a £lO
fine as to each of two leases, a final exemption to the tail
of November, and the cancellation of a third lease, as to
which the oil co. refused to ante-up any fine.
# * * *
Floated into the harbor of Big Expectations,
the other day, the Mosquito Creek Prospecting and
Options Co. The capital is £20,000 in £lO shares. The
Chillagoe Co., the vendor, has to say thanks for 400 paid-
ups. One thousand shares are being held back, while the
remaining 600 have all been footed. The new co. has
acquired options held by the Chillagoe Co. over seven
leases on the Etheridge.
* * * *
Oaks goldfield (Q.) still presents a bright enough
face. Some 200 men are leader-hunting, and they are
not growling. Another battery could find work on the
field. For the Oaks Rush Co. the Welcome mill has put
through 229 tons for 6170 z., worth £2128 roughly. The co.
has now bought a mill from the Monarch people, and will
shift it as soon as it can get an offer for the job.
Mount Shamrock (Q.) got itself talked about in
Parliament the other day, when Barber, M.L.A., wanted
to know why the labor exemption. It seems that the
mines are being un watered, so that the Government
Geologist may go down and say “Yes” or “No.” If
he says “ No,” then the co. will abandon the leases.
* * * *
The names of some mines are fairly elastic. For
instance, the last report of the Mount Warminster Lead
and Copper Co. runs like this : “At this depth the reef
which has been partly broken into, is strong and well
defined, and shows free gold by panning.” This really
refers to the Britannia gold mine, which is a good many
leagues away from the original Warminster. The co.
almost killed itself trying to locate the ore body
outside of Mount Chalmers, then crept away to a gold
show, roughly 40 miles off, to recuperate. But it is still
the Warminster “ Copper and Lead Mine, Ltd.”
* * * *
Opal ton, west of Longreach (Q.), has of late
given signs of fresh life. Near at hand, on Carbine Creek
and its vicinity, there are some 40 men, most of whom
are on opal of one sort or another. One man is credited
with £9OO worth, while another is said to have struck a
pot of £l4O worth. These, however, are gougers' figures ;
and gougers’ figures usually shrink when the buyer comes
along. Opals were first discovered in Central Queensland
back in ’72, when the gems were so exaggerated in value
that £5OOO was paid for a half-interest in one claim. The
£5OOO was never dug out of it. Since then the field has
had lots of ups and down, mostly downs. It suffers from
want of moisture as well as want of gems.
* * * *
The Dawson line, which is to run down the
Dee River to the coal wealth on the Dawson (Q.), will
pass close to the old Dee copper mine. This was the pro-
perty which Sandy Gordon, then working at the Galawa
mine, undertook to show his backers, the Morgans, in
the ’Bo’s ; and it was on the return journey that wet
weather and a bit of luck put Mount Morgan into the
hands of the brothers. The Dee copper lode never came
to much, though it once boasted a furnace ; but the new
line may give it another chance.
* * * *
Poseidon Alluvial (Vie.), next door to the Divi-
dend, which has been making fat money for the past two
years, is also into good wash. This runs on the western
side of the lead. The hope of Jamie Mackay is that by
Christmas he may sport one of the big nuggets of the
field as a breast-pin. Stanley Hunter is being worried
over the State coal-mine boring plans by a bald-headed
Parliamentary Committee, or he might explain how the
Department came to diagnose no big specks ’way down
the Poseidon lead as far as the Dividend. Areas are
pegged out beyond the Poseidon Alluvial, and should
that claim get one or two of Jamie’s nuggets, Victorian
capital will discover that another neglected district will
be pleased to receive their attentions. #
Hustler’s Reef, Bendigo, now challenges John-
son’s and Garden Gully. The vitality of these old fellows
is wonderful. Old and new’ supporters had been dangling
about Hustler’s for a couple of years past, till he, she, or
it had got dog-tired. Some brilliant idealist at last struck
upon crosscutting, to prove the whole of the series of
three saddles met at 1505 ft., instead of trying one only.
Early work north on the saddle of one of the trinity had
been disappointing ; so when they had got 240 ft. down
the drive, out went a crosscut east into an east leg, dis-
closing from 9in. to Ift. of good stone. The market
promptly took the bit in its teeth ; for hadn’t it been
playing the rdle of the foolish, sleepy maiden ? What is
now’ predicted w’ith a zealot’s intensity is that to the
north the leg will widen, and the co. will emerge into a
decent producer again. That is pure conjecture, but it
is up to Bendigo to fly the Hustler’s flag, having already
tried to brighten up the New Chum and the Moon lines.
To further help Hustler’s onward, tributors have struck
a patch of decent gold-bearing spurs on the boundary at
900 ft.
* * * *
John Brandon has at last got his Bendigonia
puff, the Argos, which always bends in a kindly way
towards Brandon’s office, doing the needful. What natty
John B. is going to prove is that, because there are some
spotted tribolites, or grapholites, or other out-of-date
beasties in some slates at Castlemaine, the Silurian there
can be identified with the Bendigo zone, about 28 miles dis-
tant. A lot may happen in 28 miles, and it takes more faith
than is found in a Presbyterian Assembly to swallow
this bit of deduction. But slim John has the support of
“geology ” Dunn and assistant-geology Moon. ’Tis said
also that he has with hint a band of mining investors who
have only dividends and the good of the country in view.
That is harder to believe than any amount of geolo-
gical generalising. Generally the crowd w hich supports
John Brandon is as keen as mustard. What these people
expect to do for the mining industry is just what the
mining industry will do for them. Castlemaine all the
while looks on with a dull, despondent eye. It has seen
many come and go, but very few stay. Had not Francis
Ormond tributors hit a nice patch, another old identity
would have been lost to them. The exact spot where
John Brandon and his friends intend to bore is at Chew-
ton. If they establish Dunn’s theorising a grateful State
should hand J.B. the best motor-car to be had to outpace
the one sported by partner Rollason.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Copper Co. at Rosebery seems
to have made rather a poor bargain with the Tasmanian
Metals Extraction Co., which has an option over the
whole output of the mine. This co., which is erecting a
reduction plant for the extraction of the zinc, agrees to
pay for the copper contents (about 7s. 6d. per ton), and
guarantees a minimum profit of 10s. per ton. The
residues containing the silver, lead and gold contents
belong to the Metals Extraction Co. The co.’s manager
says there is absolutely no doubt as to the success of its
zinc-process, and if it can recover a reasonable propor.
tion of the zinc (which is worth £5 to £6 per ton of ore)
it has a good thing on. But so many processes for
handling complex zinc ores have had flies in them that
the old hand refuses to get enthusiastic till the numbers
go up. The Tasmania Copper Co.’s manager estimates
about half a million tons of ore available, and the Her-
cules reckons on about a quarter million tons, so the
works won't stop for want of provender. An amalgama-
tion of the mining cos. and the smelting co. has been
proposed ; and, on present appearances, that is the best
thing that could happen for the afflicted West Coast.
* * * *
Waihi (M.L.) shares lately took another down-
ward swoop and touched £5 19s. 6d., the lowest price for
years. Then came news of a new reef cut in the 1000 ft.
level in hitherto unexplored ground, and a new make of
ore on the Edward reef beyond what appeared to be the
wall at the 1000 ft. level. Shares immediately hardened
again to £6 Bs. The lode cut in this unexplored zone
shows over 7ft., and across 4ft. of the stone it assays £2
12s. 6d. The unexplored area is about 800 acres, and in-
cludes the ground through which run the Silverton and
Amaranth reefs, worked years ago on the surface.
* * * *
Waihi Grand Junction’s return for last month
was £10,372 from 7135 tons. The north crosscut put in
to try to pick up the Royal lode beyond the fault has cut
a body of stone so far showing over lift, in width without
the second wall being in sight. The ore is not, however,
payable all through, and it is split in two by a horse of
mullock.
•ft * # *


CHARLES
HEIDSIECK’S
CHAMPAGNE.
he PLUS ultra.
Vintage 1904.
YOU POOH THIRSTY SOUL!
How Does This Strike You ?
A ‘‘ Montserrat” Lime Juice and Small Soda
but get the genuine “ Montserrat.”*
ROBWR
*
%
Workin’ in a close steamy
kitchen isn’t the nicest job in
the world, and sometimes 1 feel
that tired I’m only fit to go
and lie down do you know
what l do when l feel like
that I —l make a fresh cup of
Robur tea, and drink it hot —as
hot as ever 1 can, and before
you can say Jack Robinson it
brightens me up and 1 fee) as
right as rain again—l’ve been
usin’ Robur No. 1 Grade for
years, and l wouldn’t have any
other not if you paid me.
When you’re workin’ amongst
food all day long you gets to be
a pretty fair judge of what’s
good and what’s bad, and you
can take this from me “Robur
is the very wholesomest tea that
can be bought for money”—and
I’ve tasted 1 don’t know how
many brands in my time, but
never a one 1 liked better than
Robur.
The Cook.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 21, 1910.
My Dear Arini,—
“ April brought the baby a tooth. May brought
it another tooth and gave a wave to its hair.
June took away its bibs and gave it a smile with
a dimple copied from its young mother’s. July
brought it short, lace frocks and a word or two.
August stood it upright and exultant, with its
back to the wall; and September sent it tottering
and trilling into its mother’s arms. Its name was
Giovanna Desiderata Felicita.”
That from a current novel that women—especi-
ally the maternal ones —will find enthralling.
The passage brought to my mind an oft-repeated
promise to visit the Sydney Home for Babies at
Waverley. The way was long, and the wind was
a north-easter, full of dust, and the roads were shut
in by unbeautiful shops or commonplace, faded-
looking houses. All that crowded tram route is
as unpicturesque as lack of taste and money and
the absence of a Minister for Art and Elegance
can make it, until you alight near the terminus,
and the deep-blue sea, spraying a littlecontemptu-
ously under the butfetings of the wind, makes
amends for the aesthetic injury the journey has
done your eyes.
The Home is in Nelson Bay Road, in a big, old,
two-storeyed house, with sloping grass patches. It
was once the property of Yes-No Reid’s father.
Under a worried-looking tree—whose branches
seemed to be saying to the wind “ O give us a rest ”
—sat a Norland nurse, pink-frocked, white-pin-
nied, fair of hair and rose of face. Before her,
in crescent-formation, seven babies lay on
cushions. One was asleep under a mosquito net,
but the other six were awfully awake. The
youngest warrior would be aged about six months,
the eldest about a year. Jenny rolled on to
Peter’s pillow, and was lifted back. Peter cried
Jeremiah-wise to the blue vault, was turned over
on his face and patted rhythmically on the back,
under the shoulders. Minnie threw up her arms,
and tried to wriggle off her pillow and come feet-
foremost out of her clothes. She was firmly and
gently put back and adjusted, and Peter took
advantage of the diversion to claw at the mos-
quito net covering: the sleeper. The sleeper awoke
and protested in the language that an exasperated
human of seven months uses. He was patted
-back to sleep, but before his lids closed Charlie,
(Jack and another made a concerted effort at
mutiny. The rising was suppressed. Mutineers
• of six months, whose spines are as jelly, are not
like some flour—self-raising.
For the ten minutes or so I watched that we-
:are-seven living-picture the nurse was patting,
.replacing, turning or adjusting the morsels. Eels
iand indiarubber and patent springs ! The scene
reminded me of something I’d just read—how did
Medusa do her hair? Trying to coil her hair, or
’rather her snakes, was not—especially when a baud
passed in full play—a livelier occupation than
that of the nurse under the worried-looking tree
at the Sydney Babies’ Home.
The patriarch of the Home was walking about
in knitted brown knickers and jersey. He is a
i»>y of two years, and looked like a jolly Teddy
Bear. Two years is the maximum age. After that
venerable period no admittance. At present 16
infants are housed in the Home. Those that were
not with the nurse out on the grass were all in a
row up on one of the balconies, several nurses
attending on them, for they were a younger, more
lately-admitted and consequently more feeble
group.
“ This one,” said a committee lady, indicating a
pretty, fragile, but healthy-looking youngster,
“came in two months ago. It gave me a shock
to see her—such a dreadful, wizened baby ! I
have children and grandchildren of my own, and
out of my fairly good experience guessed its age
at three weeks. The matron told me it was five
months, and that she could scarcely hope to save
it. Yet look at it now ! It has jumped up from
looking a miserable three-weeks old to this.” Most
of them come in bearing the signs of pre-natal
neglect, and the over-work, trouble and lack of
care endured by their mothers. It is the youngest
charity, this Home for Babies, in this State. Mrs.
Greig Smith started it only seven months ago,
and Norland nurses give their service here
for three months. There is room in the old
mansion for 16 more babies; but the funds —
which depend mostly on private charity—won’t
admit of further responsibility. The mothers—all
working women —pay something towards the keep
of their offspring, and the committee is now work-
ing up a bridge and euchre evening for next Satur-
day night, to be held at the Fresh Food and Ice
rooms.
Besides its founder (Mrs. Greig Smith), the
.'Sydney Home for Babies’ Board of Manage-
ment consists of 'Mrs. Luker (hon. sec.), Mrs.
Robertson (hon. treas.), Mesdames Leete, R.
Bryan, Wills-Allen, and (Dr.) Grace Boelke. The
• committee included Mesdames Hogue, Norman,
Malcolm Stephen, Arding Thomas, Irving Keys,
Earp, Yarwood, C. Ashe (of Bathurst) and
Symonds (of Lismore). Their principal great
•expectation is to get a Government subsidy.
Parliament opened on Wednesday. A phalanx
•of strangers-to-me filled the dark Chamber. Only
Mrs. Harry Morton, in royal-blue ninon and a
royal-blue hat wreathed with passion flowers, had
her identity revealed by a ray of sunlight striking
her.
Mr. Gann, the new Speaker of the State Par-
liament, doesn’t wear any millinery when he goes
up to the chair. Comparatively speaking, mil-
linery was a new thing in the Assembly ; and the
new man forsook it all the more readily because
he had a boil on his neck when he started on his
new job. The Speaker—who was “ acting ” for a
good while once, when Mr. McCourt was ill—has
plenty of oil in his voice and his manner ; so both
sides expect that the wheels will go round
smoothly. His wife will make no social show.
Her tastes run to tracts and temperance.
Th e con versazi one to th e May or of Sy d n ey, A 1 d er-
nian Allen Taylor, is to be held at the Town Hall
on the evening of Wednesday, November 30. The
buzz is audible already—all Sydney is asking
for tickets. All Sydney knows the Taylors
either by sight or hand-shake, but it would not
miss the conversazione and better acquaintance—
not for Bullfinches. Mr. Albert Borchard is the
hon. sec. of the festivity.
Dr. Shields, who operated on Lady Dudley last
Saturday, has, through no fault of his own, secured
a couple of big advertisements in the past three
months. Mrs. Phillip Morton summoned him
and his colleague, Dr. Dunhill, to Sydney, for the
very serious throat operation she had to undergo.
It was entirely successful, wherefore Lady Dudley’s
decision to call in the local man instead of return-
ing to the London specialists.
The succession of Mr. W. E. Cunninghame, of
Young (N.S.W.), to the Fairlie-Ounninghame
baronetcy, suggests the number of British aristo-
crats that we entertain unawares. Hardly anyone
knew that the unobtrusive owner of Marengo
was heir to a fairly ancient title. He shunned
our ancient nobility, and they didn’t worry
about it to any extent. At Klori (N.S.W.)
lives William Broun, tenth Bart, of his line. He
married a Manly lady a matter of 40 years ago,
has a largish family, and has never sought the
halls of our local Mighty. Mrs. Alec Dalglish is
a niece of England's Premier Duke, and she and
her husband were lent Arundel Castle for their
honeymoon. They live placidly at Pomeroy, their
station near Goulburn, unknown to the society re-
porters. And many more cases might be cited.
The marriage of Mr. Tom Storie Dixson, a
younger son of the tobacco king, to Miss Ruby
Turland, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Tur-
land, of Milson’s Point, occurs on Wednesday
next. The bride’s fiearest and dearest girl-
friends tell that it has taken six women nearly a
month to embroider the tulle overdress of the
bridal gown, and that the said gown will be one
of the loveliest ever turned out by the house of
David Jones. Miss Turland is one of Sydney's
best-lookers, and used to be a mark for admiring
eyes at the Glaciarium. The T'. S. Dixsons—the
damsel will become Mrs. Dixson some hours
before this meets your eye—leave by the Otranto
on the 2Gth for a year’s trip.
Talking of espousals: The Concanon-Royle
wedding that was suddenly solemnised at
Wahroongaafew weeks ago—two days ahead of the
schedule time on the cards of invitation—had just
the touch of possible tragedy to give the friends of
the man and the girl cold thrills. Mr. Concanon,
son of the late Dr. Concanon, pf Dalby (Queens-
land), and Miss Royle, of Wahroonga House,
were to have been married with some style-
and circumstance on the first Wednesday
in this month. But on the Sunday previous
the bridegroom-elect was pounced upon by
appendicitis, and ordered by his medical man
to make haste into a private hospital. Appendi-
citis is surely the noonday Devil mentioned by the
Scriptures. It may be also the terror that flieth
by night in the same Book. The bridegroom gal-
lantly declared that, if his soul was to be de-
manded of him, he would die married, and insisted
on being wedded at once. A scared and white-
faced bride it was that forewent the bridal gown
and feast, and then saw her husband depart into-
a North Shore hospital. But, as he is recovering,
all’s well with the orange blossoming.
A December wedding will be that of Dr. James
C. Hughes and Miss Holly Coffee, second
daughter of the Frank Coffees, of Iroquois,
Chatswood.
The engagement is announced in London of
Mr. Gordon Inglis, until recently one of Sydney’s
rising young journalists, and Miss Alice Ireland,
a Sydney girl, at present touring the Cold Coun-
try with her mother. Mr. Inglis, about 12
months ago, decided to find out if there was room
for one more Australian pressman in Fleet-street,
and promptly found himself crowding into the-
London Daily Mail and other good papers as
a special writer. The marriage is timed for
January 20.
The death of Dr. Monerieff, of Wagga, by
blood-poisoning, acquired whilst treating a septic-
case, has been a great shock to his friends here.
His wife was a Miss Peden, sister of the barrister
of that name.
Francis Forbes Bundock, who died at Rand wick
the other day, belonged to an old squatting
family, whose Wyangarie, on the Richmond
River, used to be one of the show places on the
North Coast before the Cow came into her in-
heritance in those parts. Later Wyangarie passed
out of the Bundocks’ hands, and the family became
better known in Queensland. The just dead man
was in the North most of bis latter days, and a
sister married one of theMurray-Priors, of Maroon
Station.
Mr. J. C. Williamson leaves foreign parts for
Australian ports in February ; but it is doubtful
if his family will see their homeland for years to-
come. The children are too busy picking up-
accomplishments that were bestowed so easily
upon the Apostlesof old on the Feast of Pente-
cost. J.C.W.’s stay in Australia must extendi
until after September, for in that month the
Melba tour of Australia will begin.
The Tallis part of the J.C.W. firm has been in
Sydney for some days. He motored-from Mel-
bourne with Mr. Syd. Day, and reports the country
on the Victorian side as fair as a garden of the
Lord with fruiting trees, and of a St. Patrick’s
Day greenness as to grass and foliage. If, after
nearly five months’ rain, the Victorian side didn’t
give a verdure-clad response, its thirst would be
greater than any of the great Thirsts of History—
or of some Australian poets.
Miss Blanche Browne’s opening of the “Peter
Pan ” Club F6te was done with a long smile and a
fewwell-selectedcooings. St. James’s Hall enclosed,
the Wendy House and characters for the pretty
Barrie play. Frocked in grey and holding a posy
(did any woman ever yet open anytliing of
charitable-societable brand without flower-filledl
hand?) the Gibbsian girl spoke her speech
very prettily; then the other girl charmers pro-
ceeded to extract sixty pounds sterling from the
willing public. Miss Connie Milne won the big
doll that was raffled by Bantock for ten guineas.
Miss Milne is the under-study for Miss Gibbs, so-
the win was appropriate. A phonograph message
conveyed Miss T. Brune’s good wishes to the
club, but most present thought it was an imitation!
of a girl being strangled in a tunnel.
Entertainments started near the Mosman jetty,
under the label of “Venezia,” are sponsored by a*-
former secretary of J.C.W.’s, Mr. Mullarkey.
He has got some good artists, and as Mosman is
now a big, fat place, with some spare cash under
its monotonous staring-red roofs, “Venezia” ought
to do as well as can be expected.
Miss Dorothy Gardner, a promising young stage
aspirant from Christchurch (M.L.), left Sydney
last week for Melbourne to start rehearsals in
“The Gay Gordons,” to be produced by the
Clarke-Meynell Co. on Christmas Eve. Another
Maorilander, Miss Laing-Meason, will probably
have a part in the Sydney season of “ The
Whip.” ■
If “ The Man from Mexico,” as presented in
London, and in which Miss Ola Humphrey ap-
peared, was not a success, the frocks worn by the
two principal women read as if they were uncom-
monly beautiful. Out of a professionally-detailed
description printed in an English paper one
gathers that Miss H.’s first gown was carried out
in a lovely shade of Parma mauve ninon over shot
Parma and turquoise satin :
The ninon is embroidered in self-colored floss-silk, the
design of which is lightly powdered with tiny mauve and
blue beads, which gleam like jewels. A vest of Parma
mauve ninon is drawn up to the throat and hemstitched
in rays, while the sleeves are composed of the embroidery
with a fringe of tiny bead tassels. As regards the jupe,
the tunic cuts across it in a bias line, fringed with bead
tassels, and is brought to a point on the right side, while
it shows considerably more of the satin doublure on the
left.
I.ong ends of satin fall to the hem of the skirt, and are
weighted with tassels, the whole being completed by a
huge hat of mauve satin crowned with plumes shading
from amethyst to Parma.
The other woman playing in the piece had an
even more delectable gown :
This is designed in ivory satin, painted with huge
sprays of pink and primrose-colored roses, tied with bows
of pale blue ribbon. The gown is made in Princess form,
a fold of old-rose ribbon crossing the bust, while the cor-
sage is cut into a point over a vest of pin-spotted tulle,
with a wide Peter Pan collar edged with lace. Over this
she wears a transparent grey-blue chiffon coat bordered
with a chain of laurel-leaves worked in floss silk and
fastening with a huge motif of greyish blue rat-tail. The
coat is slightly shaped to the figure by means of a series
of pin-tucks under the arms, and has no hem, being
looped up from the front to the back in the most original
manner possible, so as to describe long curved lines.
Her hat is of blue satin, with a quaint Watteau wreath
of mixed blossoms and grasses and an enormous greyish
blue plume sweeping over the back.
Another of the same lady’s gowns was of pure
white chiffon cloth over satin. A trail of full-
blown roses, worked in floss silk, outlined the
wide arm-holes and the waist. A long scarf of
jade-green satin and a hat of white satin lined
with jade-green and trimmed with a bigcluster of
black and white zebra feathers, were worn with
this gown.
At a concert to be given by Mr. W. H. R.
Woods and the Steffani Opera Club in the
Y.M.C.A. Hall on Friday, contralto Eileen Boyd
is to sing her last song in Sydney before flying
for Paris and polish. The Steffanis take ner
away under their wing three days after the fare-
well bouquets are passed up.
When the mail left London, Miss Gertrude
Kingston’s Little Theatre threatened to be the
most voguey venture in London. “Lysistrata,”
adapted from Aristophanes, was the first play,
and there is to be one a month. Lysistrata is a
sort of suffragette, apd she leads the women of
Athens to power, not by knocking a policeman's
bat off, but by banding them together to “refrain
from love.” One of the best scenes in the play is
where a beautiful girl is dissuaded from an incli-
nation to “ blackleg” on her sex, so to say. Mrs.
Claude McKay has received an amusing letter
from her father, Thomas Sidney, who is the
comedian of the company. From this paternal
epistle Miss Kingston would appear to be a joker.
In the play are ravishing Greek maidens, each of
classic form and feature. At the final rehearsal
they received their female togas, and were dis-
maved to find no tights to cover their undraped
means of support. They approached Miss King-
ston. “Fudge, girls,” said that celebrity. “ You
are not woolly, are you? This is a Greek play,
not a pantomime.”
Just met one of the imported actors who knows
the Miss Kelly that Jay Gould, millionaire,
married a few days ago. She was a Gaiety girl,
strikingly handsome. Went to America with
the “ Girls of Gottenberg”—her hair then a beau-
tiful red—and made Gould’s acquaintance. Nar-
rator did not say so, but either the new
acquaintance or the climate or something (most
likely the something) turned her black in the
bead, for she returned with raven’s wing hair.
Curiously enough, Gould’s first wife was a Miss
Kelly. And now the millionaire and the ex-G.G.
inhabit the late Sir Walter Scott’s house.
The Sir Daniel Gooch, who reached Sydney by
the Otway last week, is an English baronet whose
seat (Hylands)is at Chelmsford. Heisayoungish
man, married, and his baronetcy is in its third
generation.
Mr. Harry Manning and his youngest sister,
Miss “Trixie” Manning, two of the offspring of
the W. P. Manning house, left by Saturday’s
liner. The former goes to meet his wife in
London, and the latter to visit her brother Fred,
whose poems have won him a niche—quite a high
one—in the capital where any niche, except one
in a railway arch, is hard to get.
Lady Miklouho-Macleay, the widow of a Rus-
sian noble and scientist, whose name is so fre-
quently “amongst those we noticed.” has quitted
her house for a term. The place, familiarly
known as Macleay House, is historic so far as our
infant age will permit. With her two sons she
bas gone to stay at Nirvana, in Elizabeth Bay-
road.
The London files report that Richard Le Gal-
lienne’s wife (she is a Paris milliner) is proceeding
against him for divorce. Most of us have read his
“ Quest of the Golden Girl,” so full of sentiment
and elusive Sterne-like impropriety, and a number
of us have enjoyed his verses. He is an intensely
self-conscious brand of minor poet, and puts a
deal of his personality into his writings. And so
the history of his matrimonial troubles will arouse
more interest here than the infelicities of the
shadowy, because wholly unknown, New York
plutocrats and British Debretters which are
dashed at us by cable periodically.
A friend who sat near Le Gallienne at a dinner
given by the New Vagabonds in London, years
ago, was impressed by his bizarre appearance.
The poet’s face was deadly pale, his features fine
and cameo-like, and his dark and obviously-curled
hair dangled well over his shoulder-blades. In-
stead of what Mr. B. R. Wise terms “the ordi-
nary evening garb of civilisation,” he affected a
short,- bronze-colored velvet coat, a soft shirt and
a cummerbund. His voice was high and his
Cockney twang pronounced. Before taking to,
literature Le Gallienne was “in trade”; he has
managed to jettison every trace of the old life
except the accent.
Le Gallienne’s lyric beginning “ O London,
London, my delight ” is probably the first
poem on the subject in the language;
it is certainly the sincerest thing he has
done. The charm of London’s vastness and
noise, its garish lights, its mysteries, beauties
and hideousness was in his blood. And yet he
has been living for the past decade in New York,
and of his own free will. It is a powerful example
of the poet’s contrariness and inconsequence.
Woman is not always the variable, incon-
sistent creature that man takes her for. Recently
a vagrant member of the species was arrested in
Sydney, and the policeman who captured her
attested that she had been sleeping in doorways
for 30 years. For fixity of purpose that takes
some beating.
A sale of beautiful fancy things suitable for
Christmas presents will be started by Miss Marian
Street at Paling’s on the 29th inst., and will last
for four days. The Pianola Room will be the
theatre of events, and the things will be exhibited
in Paling’s window for some days before. Miss
Street is to be helped by Miss Eaditli Walker, of
Yaralla, and Miss Marjorie Street.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
A cruel remark was made the other day to
Senator Gould. He was discoursing the old fiscal
tommyrot when Senator de Largie asked him if
he really wanted the blighted Freetrade he talked
about, and if he would practise his alleged Free-
trade principles supposing he got the chance.
It was an awkward question to put to any alleged
Freetrader, for the whole lot of them would fall
down dead with horror if they got the thing
they say they desire so badly, and they only ven-
ture to “save their faces” by talking the aged
bunkum because the existence of a big Protec-
tionist majority makes it safe to do so. So Gould,
being surprised and staggered by the sudden
question, replied mildly :
So far as I can judge, the Protectionist party is the
dominant party, and I don’t put my views against those
of the rest of the community.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
ftY appointment
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
IDEAL PRESENTS FOR MOTORISTS
FITTED LUNCHEON BASKETS.
&
Wicker Luncheon Basket, Leather lined, fitted for four persons,
with Thermotot and Thermos Flask, £lB complete.
GOODS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL.
Write for Special Christmas Booklet—sent post free to any address.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
110 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
THE. WONDERFUL
AUTO-PIANO.
Closed as an ordinary Piano.
Open as a Player Piano.
The Player-Piano that is “Different.”
We sell on the Easiest Possible Terms.
Foil value allowed for your ordinary Piano.
NICHOLSON 8 CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY and NEWCASTLE.
This Will SAVE YOO Money
OUR PRICES ARE LOWER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
E are offering (bought direct from the manufacturers) a lovely collection
of Christmas and New Year Cards and Calendars.
We absolutely guarantee our boxes and packets of Christmas and
New Year Cards.
Customers, if not pleased with the value received, can return cards to us at
our expense.
Remember our goods are imported direct. No middleman’s profit to pay.
Buying from us is equal to buying from wholesale firms.
Boxes.
‘THE IRIS” CABINET, containing 12
lovely folding Christmas and New Year
Cards and Envelopes ; price, is. ; p.f. !
is. 3d.
* IVY LEAVES,” containing 12 beautiful
folding Christmas and New Year Cards
and Envelopes ; price, is.; p.f., is. 3d.
‘ FRIENDSHIP,” containing 12 superior
folding Christmas and New Year Cards
and Envelopes; price, is. 6d.; p.f.,
is. pd.
‘GOLDEN CASKET” CABINET, con- I
taining 12 handsome New Year Cards and |
Envelopes; price, is.; p.f., is. 3d.
Packets.
‘ GOOD WISHES,” containing 12 choice
folding Christmas and New Year Cards ;
price, 6d.; p.f., 9d.
‘ DIADEM,” containing 12 choice folding
Christmas and New Year Cards ; price,
6d.; p.f., 9d.
‘AULD LANG SYNE,” containing 12
folding New Year Cards; price, 6d.;
p.f., 9d.
Christmas, New Year and.
Birthday Cards.
Each card in a separate box, representing the choicest productions of the English and Con-
tinental Manufacturers, all specially selected designs, and offered at bedrock prices.
Hand-painted in Celluloid Floral Designs.
Real Works of Art, 6d., 9d., is., is. 3d. and is. 6d. each.
Hand-painted on Satin, is. 3d., is. 6d., is. pd., 25., 2s. 3d., 2s. 6d., 35., 3s. 6d. & 4s. 6d. each.
Hand-painted on Satin, framed in Flush, is. 9d., 25., 2s. 6d., 35., 3s. 6d. & 4s. 6d. each.
Thousands to select from. Remember each card is in a separate box.
Post Cards.
Floral Designs, Embossed Velvet and Plush Flowers, 4d., 6d., 9d., is., is. 6d. & 2s. each.
In this line we have just opened some of the most beautiful designs ever shown in Australia.
Remember, we can give you any of our cards or post cards with Christmas, New Year or
Birthday mottoes.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Selling Like Ripe Cherries.”
Steele Rudd’s
• • •
' WWONI WWW
QBII
BY
Vr
Great
Australian
Books jz?
in Cheap Editions.
Sandy s Selection.
Back at our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking Our Selection.
On an A ustralian Farm
PRICE 1 - EACH.
I.
Post Free, 1/3.
All the CELEBRATED ILLUS-
TRATIONS have been RETAIN-
ED, as these new cheap editions are
printed from the Original Stereos.
DUNCAN'
M c CLURE
f ZA
'71
OVER £lO,OOO WORTH of “On Our Selection ” and “Our New
Selection ” have been sold in AUSTRALIA,
a FACT that speaks volumes for their popularity.
THOUSANDS of admirers of STEELE RUDD, who could not hitherto afford
the prohibitive price of his books, can now LAUGH with the best.
Uniform with the above, “ THE BULLETIN RECITER.”
Z° an n oTas t %N.S. W. Bookstall Co


m
O </>
P.D
Health
and
Comfort
are
Assured
by
Wearing
Royal
P.D.
Rustless Corsets,
manufactured by a celebrated firm of
French Corsetierres, who have for genera-
tions specialised in the art of Corset-
making. They are constructed on the
highest anatomical principles, and while
bringing out the finest features of the pre-
vailing styles, are always comfortable,
scientific and hygienic.
“ P.D.” CORSETS are subjected to a
special process which renders them ex-
ceptionally pliable, imparting perfect free-
dom to the limbs.
Ask your draper to show you the latest
models. [6
SQUARE -TREAD
:
:
o
»595
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 21, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Several garden fetes were arranged for Satur-
day ; but the flimsy things were smashed to
atoms by the week-end cyclone. Lady Dudley
was to have opened one of these frivols
at Egoleen, the Softgoods Sargoods’ palace,
but at the appointed hour she was just re-
covering from a two and a half hours’ operation.
Sister-in-law Mrs. Cyril Ward went along to fulfil
the engagement; but the weather became so
utterly unmanageable that the affair was half-
postponed. The afternoon sales of gifts dragged
through indoors, and £lOO was taken at
the ten stalls. The Sargoods added another
£lOO, and generously offered the house and
grounds again for Wednesday, November 80,
when the remaining goods will be disposed of
and the evening entertainment given. The gardens
of Egoleen will be illuminated for the occasion
with over 3000 colored lights; and merry-go-rounds
and bands will circle and bray respectively for all
they are worth. The revel is in aid of the Toorak
and South Yarra Try Society. During the past
27 years, this society has taken-2000 or more city
boys from the street's and planted them in healthy
surroundings in the country. They have a night
school and are taught such useful trades as car-
pentry, boot-repairing, printing, etc., as well as
the usual three Rs.
The Mayor of Haw-hawthorn also tried to open
a drenched garden fete on the same day. His
attempt was at Gennezzano Convent, at Kew.
The Reverend Mother took the visitors round the
stalls; but, in spite of all, the f6te petered out
drearily for want of blue skies and sunshine.
Monday is becoming the fashionable day for
cafe tea parties. Perhaps it is because Monday
is washing day, and the tannin absorbers aim at
evading soapsuds in the home. Last Monday the
Vienna was so full of feminine gossipers (an odd
male here and there showed a squashed, pale
countenance) that you had to watch your elbow
in order to get your cup safely to your lips. Mrs.
Tallis had a special table, and round it a party of
about 20. The guests were there to talk seriously
about the forthcoming performance of “The
Geisha” by clever Jennie Brenan’s pupils; but
they seemed to be merely frivolous amongst the
pink roses. Julius Knight dropped in gracefully
and drank tea most calmly ; then shook hands in
his most charming stage manner with each guest
in turn, murmuring sadly, “It is really ‘good-
bye!’ Yes, it is ‘good-bye’ this time, really /”
(The Superb One departed on the Adelaide ex-
press on Tuesday to catch up his boat; for this
farewell appearance he wore a lovely lavender tie.)
The hostess wore an adorable lingerie frock and
an exquisite hat. To at least one woman the
triumph was a tragedy. “I’ve just had one sent
home exactly like it!” she whispered, bitterly.
“People will think I copied it!” Jennie Brenan
was the guest of honor. She wore wild flowers in
her hat, and said little.
Afternoon tea—the extra-special kind—is turn-
ing into a lunch of four courses in miniature,
served on dolls’ plates, with souvenir gifts of
flowers for each guest. Nearly every motor has
flowers nodding inside its glass these afternoons—
dainty relics of the festivities.
This race time, Melbourne society papers
thoughtlessly presented some full-length snap-
shots of swaggah Lawn folk on the move. There
was rage and mortification in the land when the
camera’s victims gazed upon their sun pictures—
true to life, right down to the mostly-large feet
below the wind-blown skirts. Of course, they
were more natural than the carefully-arranged
studio picture; also they gave the wearers an
idea of the appearance they presented on the
windy course. As most of them had merely
passed the garments by the reflection in the cheval
glass at home, the crude portraits—with the yard-
and-a-quarter skirts blowing skimpily in the
wind, and the faces screwed up behind the spider-
patterned veils—gave them a series of severe
sho'cks. Those pictures sealed the doom of the
burlesque skirt. The wearers looked, blushed
and tumbled the offending dresses into the basket
for the old-clo’ lady.
Nowadays the taverns and boarding-houses are
full of women who have been driven out of other-
wise comfortable homes by the scarcity of Mary
Ann. Listen to the plaint of one young wife :
“ For 14 months I kept house without help ; but
I gave it up when I could not go to the Cup. I
was not going to be a slave and a hermit for ever,
and divide my time between the broom and the
gas stove.” Mrs. Youngbride is horribly wealthy
in her own right, and the partner of her domestic
sorrows is also blessed—or bothered—with barrels
of coin. Jointly they are cursed with several
vanloads of household treasures which require to
be guarded day and night. Had they been the
happy possessors of a two-roomed suburban cot-
tage, with nothing more valuable in it than the
plated spoon and forks, they could have slammed
the front door cheerfully and fared forth like free
people on Cup or any other day. But they had to
carry the burthen of riches without outside assist-
ance for 14 whole months, and it burst up the
home more effectually than ever Socialism could
have done. The young wife and her sister have
retired to a summer resort in the hills, and hubby
is invited up for week-ends.
The opening of the yachting season occurred on
Saturday. The various clubs combined, as usual,
and arranged a nice, tidy programme ; but the
combined winds took things mostly into their
boisterous hands, and disorganised everything.
The weather really wasn’t responsible for its
actions. For instance, an incoming steamer had
just reached the bay. The captain, who was on
the bridge, had been officially informed that
the wind was blowing from the north, when an
underling, who was right aft, hurriedly reported
the wind was also rushing in from the south.
Before the messenger could be clapped in irons,
the officers discovered that the wind was blowing
both ways and raising waterspouts. This was the
weather Providence provided for the opening of
the yachting season ! The Royal and the St. Kilda
Clubs, which are on the right side of ‘the bay,
always spread themselves on these occasions; but
this time the sailing and the social parts of the
salty revel were dismal failures. Everybody
huddled indoors and the white wings had to be
content to “follow movements of Commodore”—
which turned out to mean : “Follow Commodore
in out of the wet.” Some of the boats had gear
carried clean away, and visiting craft huddled to
shelter until it looked good enough to plunge for
home.
One of Judge Neighbour’s quiverful was lost to
him last week, when daughter Gwladys (she
struggles with the extra “w” because she is
Welsh) said “ I will ” to Albert Henry James, of
Gardenia Station (N.S. W.). The bridegroom also
has a humpy in our St. Kilda-road, where the
cable trams rush madly on their way amid clouds
of dust. The ceremony was a full cathedra]
function, and the pretty triolet of sisters turned
out as decorative bridesmaids. Instead 'of drag-
ging their guests out to the Neighbour home, on
the distant Beaumaris cliffs, the party had the
wedding tea at the Oriental Hotel in Collins-
street. Subsequently, the bride, in the bluest of
blue. shantung dresses, departed with her new
husband by the Loongana for Tasmania.
Aide Boyle, with Mrs. Boyle and baby Boyle,
goes to Maoriland in December for a trip. The
family will return later on to Melbourne, but only
for a few days to rest their wings ; their passages
are booked for England by the Macedonia, which
is to sail at the end of February.
The military people here get news from Eng-
land of the death of Colonel Claude de Courcy
Hamilton, who married Miss Jeanie Osborne, of
Currandooley station (N.S.W.). The Colonel,
who was only 49, was in the S’African business,
and took part in the defence of Ladysmith.
Afterwards he was for a while military secretary
to the Commander-in-Chief in India, but had to
retire owing to ill-health.
The Austral Salonites had a dainty little enter-
tainment last Thursday in “ Prunella, or Love in
a Dutch Garden,” a playlet by Laurence Hous-
man and Granville Barker. IJnie Russell, the
moving spirit in the production, was a “Prun-
ella” who at times brought a lump to your throat.
Rene Vanderkelen (in a ghastly make-up), Donald
Alsop(withaserenade in the second act), and Maud
Joliffe were features of the show; and Carmen
Simon was a vision of. beauty as the statue of
*" Love,” though a little inaudible at times, which
is a way that statues have. An over-flowing
audience of well-known people showed a little
mild pleasure occasionally. But why don’t
women applaud ? Of all the frost-bitten things,
an audience of women is easily the most frosty.
The Granton Orchestra made the music that
tends to soothe both the undraped and the linen-
plated chest.
Freddie Beard is an ambitious conductor. In
the Town Hall, on Saturday afternoon, the 26th,
the Victorian Professional Orchestra, combined
with the Victorian Festival Choir, is to produce
Beethoven’s Choral Symphony. This means a
chalk-mark in musical circles, as the Choral Sym-
phony has not been produced here in its entirety
since Covven waved his stick at the 1888 Exhi-
bition. Marshall Hall once made a dash at it;
but he omitted the choral parts. There are other
good things on the programme for Saturday, but
the Choral Symphony is the item that calls for
the before-mentioned chalk.
Mrs. Hayward, the widow of the last of the old
Port Arthur convict-settlement chaplains—he died
last month—is something or another to an extra-
ordinary number of people. She was daughter to
John Price, the inspector-general of convicts, who
was murdered in ’57. John Franklin, the Arctic
explorer, was her uncle ; and Reginald Talbot,
lately Governor in these parts, was her cousin.
It’s a smallish world, in spite of the poets, and
nearly everybody is everybody else’s cousin or so.
The Toriest of the big-landlord families of Vic-
toria even has a relative in the N.S.W. Labor
Government, though I don’t suppose they’ve been
calling on one another lately.
The new dancer at the Royal is getting her
stage legs again after the serious tendon-strain she
suffered on the first night, and has tried one or two-
new dances on the audience. One was a quaint
Slavonic dance—mostly gesture. However, some-
one in authority considered there was not enough
go about it and it was dropped. Whatever the
dance lacked, the costume that went with it was
a grievous loss to the show. It was short, and
white, and fuf-edged, with adorable boots of white
kid that reached right up to the knees, and a
snowy little turban. On Saturday night the Slav
dance gave place to another of the writhing
variety. The dress, or wrapping, for this was of
gold-tinted cloth, lightly swathed about the lissome
form. Gertie Gilliam appeared in the latest head-
dress; it is so late that it looked like the cap great-
grandmother wore when she was an infant. The
band round the head was quite lOin. wide and
had a silver and jade fringe. The striking thing
is said to be the newest Turkish shriek.
The new Sombra had a round bunch of white*
roses dropped to her from the gods, and the un-
expected tribute nearly frightened one of the laefc
notes out of the flower song.
Florence Young is here getting herself and hen-
frocks ready for “The Dollar Princess.” The
popular actress is mourning her eldest brother;.,
who died just before she reached Melbourne. For
several years now Miss Young has suffered Some
bereavement just about Christmas time, so- she
is beginning to lose faith in Christmas as a happy
season, and to rather dread the approach of De-
cember.
Betty Brooke, of the warble, back in Mel-
bourne for a few months, is giving a tea-party at
the Salon on December 5. She returns next year
to fulfil an engagement at the Crystal Palace.
Melba writes briefly from Canada, where the
immigrant freezes, to Australia: “See you next
August.”
Monday, December 5, is the date fixed for the
children’s fancy dress ball given anuually by Mrs,
Green and daughter Florrie. It is a unique
entertainment which consists mostly of mimic
vaudeville and really brilliant fancy dancing.
Mrs. Green is particularly clever with, her toe
dancers, and has pupils of all ages, from the
three-years toddler up to the coy maiden who
“hasn’t done her t ha-,%air up yet” (to quote a
Toby Claude warble). The dances begin accord-
ing to age ; so that the baby performers get their
turns off early and are taken home to bed by their
adoring mammas. One fond female parent has
been known to spend £2O on the tiny frock of her
talented infant.
The children now being drilled by Jennie
Brenan for “The Geisha” production are humor-
ous mites. One small girl was heard to say, in a
bored tone, “ I do wish I had an understudy ! ”
A quite charming novelty in gentle “drawing-
room ” entertainment is Maud Grantham’s recital
of the “ Just So ” stories, and it seems to have
many possibilities of extension. Kipling’s “Just
So ” romances are for children who can see the
humor interspersed among the absurdity. Miss
Grantham points the humor very deli-
cately, and, having told a yarn for all
that it is worth, she reproduces the
droll illustrations that Kipling drew, and'
sings a “Just So” song about it. An audi-
ence of mostly girleens smiled all the time
she was on the platform of the upstairs Athenaeum-
Hall, the other night. The few grown-ups in the-
little crowd smiled loudest of all. It is an enter-
tainment that no orphan asylum or home for
small people ought to go without; also, it sug-
gests that the reciteress might turn her attention
to Grimm and Hans Andersen, not to mention
Arabian Nights and classical mythology stories.
A popular young doctor hereabouts who plunged
on both Cups is wearing dust and ashes on his
head instead of the usual top-hat. Just before
Caulfield, he was administering chloroform to a
lady-patient, when she suddenly jabbed him
in the eye and cried, “ So-and-So ivins the Cup !
The medico reckoned this was the straight tip,
and sent a messenger post-haste to put a pot of
money on the nag 1 , which happened to be a rank
outsider, at odds as long as a Dutchman’s drink.
Irt due course, So-and-So followed the field home
like an elderly black tracker. However, the
young doctor was undismayed. “ She must have
meant the Melbourne Cup,” he concluded, and
blewed some of his savings at hundreds to one—
only to see the gradual beast once more canter
comfortably up the straight behind the whipping
herd. Now he has an uncomfortable suspicion
that, unless he keeps on backing the chloroform
gee-g6e whenever it starts, he may miss a for-
tune.
A slim beauty, who recently brought a heap of
the very latest Parisian fashions home to this
barbaric country, is wailing over the trunks that
contain the alleged “dreams.” In Paris I was all
right. In London a few people stared. But
here! Well, the other day I was mobbed, and
had to take a cab home! ” Plainly we are not
civilised —according to Paris standards.
Airman Cugnet is daring the erratic weather
and making arrangements for a public flight on
Saturday afternoon. Altona Bay, way round
past grass-grown Williamstown, is the place fixed
on, and the expected crowd will journey there by
train and steamer. Wise people will make
arrangements to picnic, as the aviator has to wait
until the weather is decently calm—and calm
spells frave been scarce of late. Where these ex-
hibitions are frequent the watchers sit, drink and
make merry until the small red balloon signals
that an ascent is to be made. Governors and
prominent politicians have signified their inten-
tion of not being absent, and this time all cows
are to be shooed off the landscape,
The frocking of the woman aviator will have to
improve a lot before the Australian girl goes aloft
in a petrol chariot. Judging by the French
fashions just arriving, the most presentable of the
air clobber is not inviting. Miss Dutrieu, a dar-
ing young person who habitually chases the eagle
into the blue, is pictured in fearful baggy gar-
ments which resemble nothing in particular—
unless it be the discarded skin of a rhinoceros.
A frantic young woman rushed into a suburban
railway booking-office the other night. She wore
a chaste costume of virgin white, and an old
garden hat stuck rakishly over one powdered ear.
“ Givq me my hat,” she demanded, waving the
air towards the stolid porter who solemnly chewed
his food. “Ain’t no hat come,” he drawled,
pouring out another cup of tea; “train in in five
minutes.’’ “ But they promised to send it by the
seven train,” almost sobbed the girl. Then a
light came into her eye. She went over to that
porter. She placed her manicured finger-tips on
his diisty coat-sleeve. She breathed wood-violet
scent in his ear. “Do get me my hat,” she
cooed ; “I am sure I saw it at the other end of
the platform.” The next minute startled pas-
sengers saw the porter running for dear life. He
hurled himself on a huge hat-box and started back
to the frantic young woman, who was dragging at
the garden-hat in the waiting-room. “Just three
minutes left,” she gasped, tugging at the string.
But the porter put her aside. “ Leave it to me,
Miss,,” he said, breathing hard, as he dived a huge
hand into the tissue paper. ... A few minutes
later he put his head into a first-class compart-
ment, where a flustered young person smiled
under a huge village of a hat. “My word,” he said,
“we hadn’t much time ; but we done it.” Then
ihe went sadly back to the 14 intending passengers
who hadn’t got tickets and who swore fearfully ;
but as he tenderly packed the garden hat “to be
called for,” a whiff of violet seemed to repay him.
Melbourne has something like a plague of rats.
A girl typist surprised “ the head ” the other day
by dancing on his table. A rat had leaped into
her lap. The beasts wait in dark spots on
the stairs. They drag lunch-baskets down to
the cellar. They chew the feathers out of the
girls’ hats. Altogether, there is a healthy job
waiting for a second Pied Piper.
{From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
After:aifierce north wind had shattered its temper and
torn its coiffure to rags, Sassiety went to an evening
reception at the Residence on Wednesday. It’s a quaint
and charming old house, strictly unmodern, with wide
doors and long windows, and a procession of cool, chintz-
dad reception-rooms along the front. These apartments
had flowers in every hole qnd corner and window-seat,
and other soulful and inviting details.,' Their Exes,
received in the ballroom; the lady in soft and
trailing pale grey, with fine silver braid latticed
■about the sleeves, and-the one available daughter in white
satin, simple and demure. The pretty new, little Mrs.
aide Wright was in a dainty pink, caught with sequined
\ passementerie. A noticeable vision was Mrs. Gordon Ayers,
in filmy cream, with golden trappings. The army was
there in scarlet and gold, and the supper-table bad sweet
peas in its ear. The revel was dotted with farewell com-
pliments to the just-departing Mr. Baillie-Hamilton.
The John Roaches enticed a fancy-dressed multitude
into their moonlit garden at Gilberton one evening last
week for a new variety of party. A network of strings
was spread about the garden, and you had to seize a
string and pursue it, through bush, through briar, to its
source, where hid a toy. The maid and man who col-
lected the most toys were presented with a diamond
tiara, or some other trifle. A string band provided a
soulful accompaniment to the hunt, which was followed
by dancing on the lawns.
The elder Le Messurier damsel, Daisy, met Arthur
Seddon at St. Peter’s College Chapel on November 12—by
appointment, it seemed. The lady’s frills were of cream
lace, and the bride’s pretty sister Dorothy and her cousin,
Nellie Le Messurier, were a pale blue and a pale pink-
braided maiden respectively. Another knotting is soon
■to happen in the same family—not one of the girls or
■ boys this time either.
The Conservatorium Orchestra wailed through an
■occult programme on Monday night; and the Excellen-
cies and Mr. Wright and his bride, the Professor Naylors,
Vice-Chancellor Barlows and much lesser nobility listened
There was some incidental singing, in the
■course of which another Voice was launched. It is a con-
tralto of power and promise, the possession of a country
maiden, Miss Cilento. Altogether, it was a very nice con-
cert as far as it went, which was only to 9.20.
For some time there have been rumors of a coming up-
heaval at the Conservatorium, which, ’tis said, does not
earn its living under present arrangements. Alterations
are to be discussed by the Senate this week.
The estate of the late Mr. W. E. Softgoods Brocksopp
has been sworn at £122,000, which all goes to the widow
and children.
The Cricket Association packed itself into the pavilion
on the Oval on Saturday t,o help unveil the portrait of its
president, E. T. Smith, who has been the godfather of
the association since its birth in 1871. He is reckoned to
have done more for sport than anyone else in South Aus.;
and his popularity, adequately described, would fill a
year’s Bulletins. Mr. John Pickering, who was the first
secretary to the association, unveiled theportrait—one of
George Webb’s—and compliments were handed out with
the afternoon tea.
By the way, a Creswell arch has just been erected at
the entrance to the Oval, in memory of the late good
secretary of the association.
The Mongolia has brought back the Harry Duttons and
the W. F. Stocks.
Port Victor, where the Nobility, real and plated, crowds
every summer, has a kiosk now. The thing has been put
on shadeless Granite Island, which is connected with the
mainland by a long jetty. The idea is to encourage
womankind to get the freshest breezes that blow, and
incidentally ruin its temper and complexion.
Deputations, public meetings and hysterics rage
around the train that runs up and down King William-
street. An electric car already runs races with it, and
the Tramways Trust wants to make the race more excit-
ing by planting a second set of car-lines for the traffic
from Hyde Park and Wayville. Here an excited
public points out that murder is child’s play
to the scheme, and begs the Premier to for-,
bid it. The Trust says the second line is vital,
and suggests removing the train. At which Glenelg
rages, and says it won’t have its train tampered with, the
same being tractable and well-behaved. The question
resolves itself into an argument between the Railways
and the Tramways, and since the same man is Commis-
sioner of the one and Chairman of the other, he is in the
interesting position of officially agreeing with both sides.
Several gentle citizens have suggested a revolutionary
tearing up of the railway if something isn’t speedily done.
Julius Knight shed the light of his countenance on us
for three days last week, and then a heartless mailboat
stole him. The same craft denuded Adelaide of the pre-
sence, hyphen and other personal effects of Mr. Walter
Stuart Baillie-Harnilton.
Maryannery has become such a lost art in Adelaide
that frenzied housewives are contemplating a descent
upon the Premier to demand the instant importation of
six cargoes from Britain.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
Victoria’s Railway Department can be
charmingly ingenuous at times. Recently, it
despatched a large-sized officer to discover why
there was a shortage in the quantity of wool-freight
as compared with last year. He soon found out,
and informed his bosses that the wool wasn’t being
sent because the growers couldn’t get trucks to
send it in. At times, though, the Department
isn’t quite so simple. A country firm tried for
four days to get trucks to shift 350 bags of wheat.
The day before the Cup it got one truck on con-
dition that it unloaded six tons of spuds that
were in it; but, when this was done, a harassed
station-master came along and collared the vehicle
for something else. Now that country firm growls
that the spielers weren’t all at the races.


IS YOUR COMPLEXION INSURED?
A TOPICAL QUESTION.
YOU place a high value on your appearance, do
you not ? You insure your jewels, your home
and your furniture. Is not your appearance of
greater value to you than all these? You can replace
your jewels, your house and your furniture , ut can
you as easily replace your beauty once it has gone.
Would you not rather sacrifice than lose that divine
gift of all—your complexion ?
You must not forget that all sorts of things are
apt to happen your complexion. Had you not bettei
keep out of trouble ?
The way is simple
You can insure the health of your complexion,
you can preserve the most valuable essential to facial
beauty. The whiteness, clearness, softness, smooth-
ness, tone and health of your skin by the daily use of
V alaze.
Valaze yields to the skin active stimulations and
nourishment. Valaze charms every atom of impurity
out of the skin. Lines and crow’s feet are prevented by
tbe efficacy of Valaze treatment. Freckles disappear;
sunburn, sallowness, ravishes by wind and weather
vanish.
Valaze will not grow heads, but the skin will grow
beautiful by its help,' and proof against all weather
conditions ; so that having become beautiful it may
remain so, and this is mainly what every sensible
woman wants.
The effect after one month’s use is most astound-
ing, and the mirror from day to day tells the Valaze
beginner the story of its perfecting progress.
MISS MARIE STUDHOLME says that “in
her opinion the Valaze preparations are quite the best
of their kind she has ever used.”
MISS ELLALINE TERRISS says : “Valaze is a
most valuable preparation, and I will most certainly
recommend it.”
MISS ALICE CRAWFORD, the Bendigo
Beauty, declares “ that Valaze does precisely what the
skin requires. It preserves its tone, whiteness and
clearness as no other preparation has done.”
Valaze is supplied by Mile. Helena Rubinstein,
the foremost Beauty Specialist of the day, in jars at
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d.
Note the following toilet essentials that Mile.
Rubinstein supplies for summer use :
Valaze Freckle Paste, Mile. Rubinstein’s new
remedy for dark and obstinate freckles. From the
first application the freckles commence to fade, and
gradually grow fainter, until they disappear altogether.
The most effective and perfect remedy for freckles yet
known. In jars, ss. 3d. posted.
Valaze Powder and Novena Poudre. —Mile.
Rubinstein is the first complexion specialist to
differentiate between the dry, over-moist, or oily and
normal skin when advising the use of powders.
This accounts for her supplying two distinct varieties
—the Novena Poudre, a “fat ” powder for dry and
normal skins, and the Valaze Powder for greasy skins.
In boxes at 2s. and 3s.
Valaze Complexion Soap contains many of the
properties of the Valaze Skin Food. It carries into the
skin the glow of health, and gives that transparency
and satiny feel which are such typical results of all the
Valaze preparations. Price 2s.
Valaze Snow Lotion. —This is a superb liquid
powder. Valaze Snow Lotion not only refreshes, cools
and whitens the skin in the hottest weather, but also
enables it to retain that dull ivory finish so much
sought after. It is supplied in three shades—white,
pink and cream—and the price is 3s. 6d. a bottle.
Dr. Lykuski’s Blackhead and Open Pore Cure
banishes every trace of this disfigurement. It closes
the enlarged pores, cures a greasy, coarse skin, and
assists in preserving a healthy complexion. By its use
the skin is effectually cleansed, perfectly braced, and
stimulated to healthy action. Price 2s. 6d.
Valaze Liquidine. —This new complexion lotion is
probably the most interesting and remarkable prepara-
tion of the century. It overcomes many undesirable
conditions, amongst which are enlarged pores, black-
heads, undue flushing of nose and face, and oiliness of
the skin, by stimulating the pores and producing a finer
and more healthy condition. It should be applied
twice daily, or more frequently, to remove dust, powder
or oily secretions. Bs. 6d. a bottle.
Novena Cerate. —This is an emollient skin cleanser.
When the skin is delicate and sensitive it should be
cleansed with Novena Cerate. It is rubbed well into
the skin, left on for a few minutes, then rubbed and
wiped away with a soft towel. The result is a delight-
ful skin bath, such as one finds quite new to one’s
experience. Price 2s. and 3s. 6d.
Novena Sunproof and Windproof Creme affords
positive protection to the skin at all seasons, against
the sun as well as the wind. This preparation prevents
freckles, sunburn, tan and sallowness. Price 2s. and
3s. 6d.
Valaze Lip Lustre will also be found beneficial for
summer use. It shields the lips from the roughening
and drying effects of the sun and wind. It imparts a
natural color to the lips, which cannot be displaced by
biting or wetting. 2s. and 3s.
Novena Hair Destroyer.—An instant remedy for
superfluous hairs. It cools and soothes, while it
cleanses, and has been declared to possess every quality
which should characterise a perfect depilatory. ss. 6d.
The Valaze Massage Institutes, in Pitt Street,
Sydney, and Collins Street, Melbourne, are the com-
pletest establishments known in Australasia for treat-
ment of complexion blemishes of every imaginable kind.
When ordering preparations or writing to Mile.
Rubinstein, for further particulars or advice, address
your correspondence to Mile. Rubinstein, Dept. 20,
Valaze Massage Institute, 274 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; or 158 Pitt Street, Sydney. Mile. Rubinstein
will also send her valuable book, “Beauty in the
Making,” free with order ; otherwise, 3d.
xiu
'V
mm
A Feast of Festive Thing's I
THE LONE HAND’S
PRICE
SIXPENCE.
Lavishly Illustrated in Color.
Published Wednesday, November 30.
gasdf
V


THE MODERN - FIGURE.
How to Regain Beauty of Form.
The vagaries of Fashion are a great trial to ladies
inclined to over-stoutness ; hut it is a great mis-
take to go in for physical repression in the shape
of speoial stays. Fasting and violent exercising are
also dangerous. One very soon becomes limp,
depressed and sallow of complexion when such
methods of getting thin are adopted. There is
absolutely no necessity to study dietetics or deprive
oneself of wholesome rest and enjoyable bodily
comforts. The following is a prescription which
will restore beauty of form without any sacrifice
of health or strength. Any chemist will make it
up for you or supply the harmless ingredients,
viz. : One ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., one half-
ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract of
Glycyrrhiza B.P. and peppermint water to make
six ounces in all. The dose is two teaspoonfuls
after each meal. Don’t be afraid of a good
appetite, especially as the digestive system will
be much benefited by this simple treatment.
Indeed, the whole body is beautified, and the
reduction of weight occasions no wrinkles. The
skin and complexion are re-beautified.*
gs
CHERRY BLOSSOM vvlil
give you just the shine you
desire —bright, lasting and
pleasing'. It will also soften the
leather, and make your boots or
shoes easier in wear, besides pro-
tecting- them against dampness.
CHERRY BLOSSOM is an
economical polish, because you
need only apply it once or twice
a week ; a rub up with a cloth
often being sufficient to renew
the shine. If you have any difficulty in securing- it,
write direct to us, and we willjsee that you are supplied
immediately-. Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BILIOUS ATTACKS CUBED.
Sufferers from bilious attacks should read this
remarkable letter from Mr. Donald Coutts, of
Condah, Yic. I have been a continuous sufferer
from headache and bilious vomiting attacks for 25
years. During that time I have been treated by
doctors, besides using all sorts of medicines that
proved useless. Being almost afraid I could never
be cured, I tried Chamberlain’s Tablets, and can
assure you that they completely cured me, and I
feel like a new man. I can conscientiously
recommend them to all who suffer from stomach
and liver troubles.”*
HUNYADI JANOS is the aperient water par
excellence. The average dose is a wineglassful taken be-
fore breakfast. Nature herself has mingled its chief in-
gredients, sulphate of magnesia and sulphate of soda, in
such ideal proportions that this Water acts promptly
without griping or other discomfort, and may be used for'
any length of time and at any period of life.*
The 1911 issue of “Australia To-Day,” the
comprehensive annual issued by the Commercial Travel-
lers’ Association, is a complete menu arranged bv
specialists. The illustrations are numerous, and the
price is Is. 6d.—which is very reasonable considering
that, besides some excellent light reading, it contains a-
heap of instruction about our own country.*
Join the Army
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. It
gives speedy relief whenever applied to a burn,
blister, bruise or a pain or sore of any nature.
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
A WAY TO CURE
RHEUMATISM.
♦
How to Get Rid of the Cause
of the Complaint.
+
A treatment for rheumatism that aims at
driving out of the system the cause of the com-
plaint is certainly the common-sense way of deal-
ing with the disease. Acid in the blood is recog-
nised by many authorities as the cause of the
trouble. It has been found that when this acid
has been driven from the system that rheumatism
is cured. Treatment of rheumatism with Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills has been remarkably success-
ful, because they actually make new blood, build-
ing up the system to a point that enables it to
throw off the rheumatic poison.
Miss A. Fletcher, Hay Street, Subiaco, Perth;
has been cured of rheumatism by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and her statement to a reporter should
be of interest to other sufferers.
“I caught a heavy cold, which settled on me, and
then rheumatism set in,” said Miss Fletcher.
“ It started in both legs and spread as far as my
knees, and afterwards it affected my arms. 1
would be in bed for several days, and then I’d get
about with a stick. I could not bend my knees,
they were so stiff. I suffered acute darting pains
•all through my limbs. I couldn’t use my hands,
they were so knotted in the fingers. I had to sit
about the house all day. I couldn’t get about
except by hobbling. I had nagging pains all the
time. I was suffering for about six months when;
a lady friend told me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. I got some from one of the West Perth.
; grocers, and the first box helped me. I started
with one pill after each meal, and it only needed
two boxes to drive the rheumatism completely out
of my system. The stiffness and soreness began
to go out of my knees. I began to get about with-
out the aid of a stick, and the use of my hands;
came back. I’ve not had a trace of them
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured me.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are good for any coni-;
plaint that a supply of rich, red blood is good for ;
but one needs to be careful to get the genuine, as
;substitutes sometimes offered are useless. They
are sold by most chemists and storekeepers, price
:2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. ; or if they can-
not be obtained locally will be sent post free on
receipt of price by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
■Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.*
V
uPTCIRE*
DCNYER
Its worries
and fears are
effee t u a lly
removed by
wearing
Denyer’s
Special
Elastic Truss.
No steel bands to irritate.
Cool. Perfect fit guaranteed.
17/6 Single ; 22/6 Double.
DENYER BROS.,
Mahers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Spoils to the victors ! ” sneered that
well-behaved warrior, Onslow, when Cann was
led to the Speaker’s chair at the opening of
N.S.W. Parliament. Still, the Labor party
couldn’t be expected to know any better, he
added. And Onslow couldn’t, of course, be ex-
pected to open his mouth without putting his
foot into it. Cann had been for years an excel-
lent Chairman of Committees; but when the
Onslow ‘‘Liberal” party got a strong majority
over the Labor party six years ago, it promptly
showed its good manners by bumping Cann out
and handing the spoils over to one of its hacks.
The superintendent of the Government
dockyard at Cockatoo (Sydney) has been gazing
on the material sent out from England for the
new Australian destroyer Warrego, and his ver-
dict is that some of it is shoddy and some of it is
■‘brum.” The two destroyers which were built
in England haven’t arrived yet. So the question
whether they are also “brum” is unsettled ; but
after the unpleasant remarks of the Government
dockyard man there is likely to be an unexpected
coldness about the public whoop which will greet
them when they turn up.
Poor little Tasmania is always being left.
It is the best watered of all the States, and the
oldest save only N.S.W. ; it has the most abun-
dant water-power for purposes of cheap manufac-
ture $ it is, for its size, about the richest in
minerals—ip fact, it has all the essentials required
to make it the Queen State of Australia. But the
curse of Toryism has been on it from the
first, and with all its magnificent chances it
has, in proportion to population, the most
illiterates, the smallest foreign commerce, the
least revenue, the worst-paying railways and the
largest amount of unproductive debt; also it owns
the only capital city that is losing population.
And a casual item of news last week showed that
it was still the same old Tassy. There were pub-
lished the Australian bank deposits as at 80/9/TO,
and this was how they compared with the figures
as at 30/f)/’O9
N.5.W.,. „ „, ~ Increase £5,331,696
Victoria ~ 3,344,823
Queensland „ 1,396,393
Westralia .. ~ .. ~ 1,342,785
S, Australia ~ .. .. ~ 984,885
Tasmania .. .. .. Decrease 46,132
The boom was so tremendous that the country’s
bank account increased by £12,354,450, and every
State was in the boom save the inevitable failure
—old Van Deadmen’s Land.
John Bull has seen some £200,000,000 of
his hard-earned money vanish during the last
few years through the fall in the price of consols.
When an Australian Government borrows £lOO,
it undertakes not only to pay interest, but to
repay the £lOO on a fixed date. But the British
public debt isn’t repayable at all, so when Bull
lends his Government £lOO he is simply assured
of the interest; as for the principal, if he is
driven to realise he gets any old sum that the
market chooses to give. Of late, the market has
been giving as little as £7B 155., and in conse-
quence bank and other reserves have been fading
like Jeffries’s chance of hitting Johnson.
The Customs Act Amendment Bill, which
was placed before the Senate last week, aims
chiefly at giving the Commonwealth administra-
tion the same powers over exports as it now has
over imports. At present the Government can pro-
hibit the exportation of arms and naval and mili-
tary stores only ; the Bill will extend this power
to all goods whose exportation wouldn’t be good
for the Commonwealth for any one of about 50
reasons. It is a large, sudden measure, which, if
properly administered, is calculated to give a
severe jolt to that brand of Private Enterprise
which doesn’t care two hangs about Australia’s
future so long as it can put tuppence at once into
its own fat purse.
Bunbury—where Bigjohn Forrest and
some potatoes come from—has made this paper
feel ashamed of itself. The other day, The Bulle-
tin said that it was about time the Westralian gold-
fields got a railway to their nearest port, which is
Esperance. Whereupon Bunbury :
The Bulletin says nothing- about the proposed Esper-
ance desert railway enabling the easterners to dump
their surplus down cheaply at lvalgoorlie for the benefit
of the t’othersiders there.
Of course, The Bulletin sees now that it was
quite wrong. If the railway would enable the
goldfields population to get cheap Australian
food, it would obviously be a wicked railway.
So long as Bunbury can supply him with
potatoes at £25 per ton, the miner clearly has no
right to any railway that would enable him to
buy any other sort of food from any other
part of Australia at any other price. Until
this moment The Bulletin hadn’t realised that
the Westralian goldfields were made for the
express purpose of buying potatoes from Bunbury
at £25 per ton ; but the thing is quite plain now.
No place should have a railway that doesn’t lead
straight to the core of a Bunbury potato.
From a S.M. Herald editorial (16/11/’10)
on N.S.W. Premier McGowen’s proposed State-
assurance : —•
It is a matter for very serious consideration whether it
should not be a Commonwealth rather than a Stale
undertaking. As Australian industry develops, unem-
ployment will tend to become much more a relative than
an absolute condition, taking the Commonwealth as a
whole. It will resolve itself largely into a question of
distribution of labor, and this would be most convenient
for a Commonwealth concern.
It is an instance of circumstances altering cases.
The Herald is pained at the idea of the Com-
monwealth being empowered to look after the
worker when he has got a job—that it calls unifi-
cation and a butchery of “ State rights.” But it
is all in favor of the Commonwealth looking after
the same worker when (probably owing to the
mismanagement of the States, bossed by their
Tory Houses of Fat) he has lost his job, and is in
consequence unprofitable and unpicturesque.
THE HON. JIMMY CARROLL , OF M.L.
Joe Ward’s brown right hand.
Over some proposed new taxation the
?j tuatlon Al,l h ,s amusing. The Labor
Government has a bare majority ; so Crawford
Vaughan, treasurer, cheerfully declares
be j b v rts ? t0 en , the l eake-Butler proposals,
iln< , tl ' erefore calls on the Opposition to sup-
t ' e v m l • . 4 nd the Opposition indignantly
Jf'e t . iat K n ”T s a thing about the infant,
-the Government s idea is to abolish some of the
®£ an ?P duties, reduce railway freights and raise
the income tax exemption, io make up the de-
heieney (which the Opposition now says won t
? xis b owing to the good seasons) it is proposed to
the land tax to Ljd. per £ unimproved
Xjdiie, and impose an increment value tax. Ihe
treasurer and his supporters have been trying to
J ,ro '' e ,y I ,? ei *’ ( , )Wn m'd the Opposition s former
that this will farmer, while
Opposition now prophesies ruin to everybody
Vp . • m *\?. in . , 9. ,n j'] es become law.
Each party is jellmgthat, t is the farmers friend,
whll « the farmer mostly lies low and wishes that
so,n s'ow (le isn >ery paitacular) he or his sons
?° uld get son,e more laild ’ spending ruin and all
thrown in.
England’s “pauper” statistics for 1909,
just issued in a Blue Book, make cheerful reading
for confirmed Freetraders. In January there
were in England and Wales 850,460 paupers, an
increase of 26,617 on the previous year. Expendi-
ture on pauper relief totalled” £14,717,098 —
£3,831,395 in London, and £10,885,703 in the
provinces. Another page of the fearsome tale
states that of the 125 persons whom the coroner
declared to have died of starvation in Merrie
England during the year, 52 perished in London
and 73 in the provinces—all, no doubt, breathing
blessings on Cobden in their last moments.
GOOD-BYE!
He felt strongly on this matter. Fanners must do
something. If the Federal Government got all its
way, they could say “Good-bye to Australia.”— S. A.
[?] report of a “ Liberal” meeting.
And (by making his imagination work over-
time) our artist here depicts the touching farewell
scene.
It isn’t always the Fat man who thinks it
Dreadful to interfere with the freehold. In fact,
there are circumstances under which the Fat man
does the interfering. At Charters Towers, for
instance, it is the Fattest cos. that serve notice
upon the little freeholder, under the Mining on
Private Property Act; and then the little free-
holder has to submit to have the innards of his
property gouged out. The matter has to go to
the Warden’s Court first, of course ; but the little
freeholder has no hope of saving the innards of
his sacred freehold—all he goes to the court for is
to get a few pounds extra, if he can, by way of
compensation.
A much-needed hint has just been given
by the Vic. Assembly to Premier John Murray.
This reformed character introduced a Licensing
Bill which was full of his own intemperate ideas.
It would have made it difficult for a thirsty man
to get a drink anywhere. John Weary kept the
wild principles of the Bill a close secret till the
last minute, and then tried to rush it through the
Assembly. But the Parliament is not entirely
composed of zealots who tell shuddersome stories
of their dreadful Past; so the House calmly told
Murray that lie was making an ass of himself, and
threw the Bill into the w.p.b. on the second read-
ing without paying it the compliment of any
debate at all.
A general manager of a leading bank, in-
terviewed by the Argus, laments that, although
rates of pay for junior clerks have been suddenly
elevated, the greatest difficulty is experienced in
securing suitable youths. The scarcity of nice,
biddable boys is ascribed to general prosperity
and the desire to get on the land. The kind gen-
tleman is, nevertheless, hopeful :
We have enjoyed a combination of very favorable con-
ditions—pood seasons and pood prices. It is not at all
unlikely that we shall have a combination of bad circum-
stances—bad seasons and bad prices. Then the land will
lose its attractiveness for many. With its land tax the
Federal Government is endeavoring to make it as un-
attractive as possible now.
Plainly Mr. General Manager ought to be very
grateful to the Labor party for making the land
unattractive, and thus helping to supply hirm
with the cheap clerks he wants. But not a word of
thanks escapes the ungrateful soul—which is pro-
bably because he knows that the Labor policy
makes the land unattractive only to the big fellow
wbo is on the land already, and who is expected
to squeeze up and make room for the unlanded
deriding who wants to get there.
One of the early proposals that may be
looked for from Alfred Edden, Minister for Mines
in the N.S.W. Labor Government, is a Coal and
Shale Mines Hours Regulation Bill, providing, at
least, for eight hours from bank to bank. The
most forceful speech in the way of rough sym-
pathy that Edden ever made, perhaps, was in
1909, when moving the second reading of a Bill to
afford the eight-hour concession. He started out
by telling the Assembly something of his own
early life. Said he :
I am here to speak not of the things of which I ami
accused, but of the things that I have gone through..
During the last half-hour I have been thinking of inci-
dents in my own life that took place 50 years ago in
Staffordshire, when I was a little lad not 10 years of age..
In those days I worked 12 hours a day in a mine, to say
nothing about the time occupied in walking to and from,
it. My first wages were 9d. a day, and out of that I hadt
to find candles, which cost at least 2d. a day.
It was the hardships he suffered as a hoy that ledi
Edden bn this occasion to make a special appeall
for the youngsters working in the mines of N. S.
Wales. “ Why not legislate for the little lads;
and others in the coal mines ? ” he asked.
I say, without fear of contradiction, that those lads alii
told in the State under 16 years of age number 789. Here'
are those lads going through caverns, darkness on every
hand, with a tallow lamp on their heads, or a
safety lamp in their hands, as the case may
be. If you want to see excitement go into a
coal mine and watch the wheelers, and you would swear
that every moment would he their last. I appeal to the
House, I appeal to the Premier, I appeal to the country,
1 ask everybody—is not eight hours sufficient to be hidden,
away from God’s sunshine in the bowels of the earth, arid;
away from the pure atmosphere which the heavens’give
us to breathe.
And then a heeler of Wade’s moved the adjourn-
ment of the debate, and Edden’s humanitarian,
appeal went overboard.
There is a movement in Victoria to increase
the wages in the law-making trade. Always cry-
ing out for the cheap, the Argus says:—
It is surely a grotesque absurdity to argue that mem-
bers of an Assembly of waning importance should be paid
more than sufficed them in the days of their full glory.
Everything hangs on that word “sufficed”; and
that word happens to be a lie. The £3OO a year
didn’t suffice ; but it was all that Fat and Conser-
vatism would concede at the moment.
The Cohuna (Vic.) Land Commission is to*
stretch its legs. It is now given power to roam-
round among many land dealings,
since 1906 and discover “ whether
such dealings or transactions were-
or were not induced, entered,
upon or brought about as a result
of information acquired by any
person ” who is or has been “em-
ployed in our State service, or in
the service of the Water Supply
Commission, or of the Closer-
Settlement Board, or by any per-
son or persons in any way con-
nected or associated with any such'
first-mentioned person.” Which*
suggests that the perfume which*
is alleged to hang about certain
Vic. land transactions is larger
and thicker than was originally
suspected. To say the least, the-
situation begins to be interesting.
Also, it threatens to be prolonged!
until some of the interested par-
ties are dead. In fact, one of
them is dead already—perhaps*
two; for the land purchases of
.1906 must have had some interest'
for Thomas Bent, and Tom is dead enough to he-
al most forgotten.
South Australian politicians propose a rise-
in their salaries from £2OO to £3OO, and Victoria!#
politicians talk of a lift from £3OO to £600; but
both groups put forward the mean claim that the
salary is too small “ because there are so many
calls.” Increasing the salary won’t get over
that trouble. If the M.P. yields to the cadger,
£6OO won’t stay in his pockets any more than
£3OO did. The chief encouragement to the cadger
is given by the wealthy politician who doesn’t
want the salary, and consequently uses it in a
contemptible species of bribery. It should bean
offence for any club or organisation to solicit
alms of an M.P., and the electoral law ought to
forbid the member to give such bribes, just as it
orders him to limit his election expenses. The
case for a higher salary does not rest upon the
miserable ground that the M.L. A.’s ear is fre-
quently bitten, but upon the work that he per-
forms. At present, the State legislator is about as
well paid as the nia.nager of a country branch-
bank, although his work is supposed to be of
national importance.
THE WISDOM OF IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London papers doubt the wisdom of creating- a military
spirit in a country with so small a population as Aus-
tralia.—Daily pa per.
In a land where the people are sparse and few
It is clearly foolish to learn to shoot;
The only thing it is wise to do,
When the foes are many and things look blue.
Is to scoot, scoot, scoot!
So it’s good-bye, Susan darling,
It’s plain that it’s time to clear ;
There is nothing to be done
But to simply cut and run,
So don’t you worry, there’s a dear.
In a place where the people are strong and free,
And lands are open and fair and wide,
The only thing—you can take it from me—
When the foeman gathers from over the sea
Is to hide, hide, hide !
So it’s good-bye, Nancy darling,
Good-bye, and don’t you fret;
If the shells begin to fly
Put your apron to your eye—
And you’ll soon be some Yellow Peril’s pet.
Tiie Australian people are specially blind,
With remarkable notions of wrong and right,
With homes to guard and their rights to mind—
To their lasting shame and disgrace, you’ll find
That they’ll fight, fight, fight!
So it’s good-bye, Mary darling,
The train for the North won’t wait;
There’s a knocking at the door,
And the guns begin to roar,
And we mustn’t keep Asia late.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


THE
CLAVIOLA
PIANO PLAYER
Is the latest and
best of all piano
players.
It has improve-
ments found in no
other make.
We have a
beautifully illus-
trated catalogue
describing these
i mprovements,
which we forward
post free on
application.
PALING'S,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
Victor Pianos.
D
Victor Hanos are manufac-
tured for us and embody our
Half century’s experience.
They are grand wear resisters,
and we specially recommend
them where worK is heavy
they will last a lifetime.
Every Victor Piano is sold fully
g'uaranteed.
We sell on easy terms, and
catalogues are free for the
asKing.
W. H. PALING <a Co.
338 George Street, Sydney.
415
No better Organs
than the Estey
are manufac-
tured.
They are the
result of over
60 years experi-
ence.
We sell them at
all prices from
£lO : O : O.
Catalogue and
price list shew-
ing easy terms
on application.
PALINGS,
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
lOC
NEW EDISON
RECORDS for
December will be
ready 25th Nov. —
I
There's a great deal of enjoyment in making your choice of the New Edison
Records as they are issued monthly. And there's double the pleasure in playing
them over to your friends. The latest hits of theatre and hall lose nothing by
reproduction on the Edison Phonograph in your home.
You should call on your nearest dealer and ask him to let you hear the New
Edison Records for December. They're a grand lot, including three fine Grand
Opera selections, as well as many popular numbers by favorite Edison artists.
We will post you complete lists of Records and Machines on receipt of your
request, and also supply you with the name and address of your nearest dealer,
if you do not know them.
Amberol Records for December
(Four-Minute).
434 Garden of Roses .. .. Maxwell and Chorus
435 Larboard Watch .. .. Stanley and Gillette
436 When He Sinsrs the Sono-s My Mother Saner
Jones and Chorus
437 My Hero—“ The Chocolate Soldier”.. Florence
439 One More Day’s Work for Jesus
Marvin and Anthony
441 Molly Lee Romain and Chorus
442 Two Gentlemen from Ireland (Vaudeville
Sketch) .. .. .. Spencer and Murray
443 Foxy Kid—Cornet Duet.. Edison Concert Band
444 Forgotten Thompson
445 My Jesus, As Thou Wilt
Edison Mixed Quartette
446 Moraima —Spanish Caprice
American Standard Orchestra
447 Red Clover.. Frederick H. Potter and Chorus
448 Peaches and Cream (Vaudeville Sketch)
Jones and Spencer
449 Motor King- March .. N.Y. Military Band
450 Casey Jones .. .. Murray and Chorus
451 Farmyard Medley .. Premier Quartette
452 Morg-enblatter .. .. .. Sousa’s Band
473 Shackleton’s South Polar Expedition
Shackleton
12158 Vanity Fair .. .. .. Peter Dawson
12161 Belphegor March National Military Band
12162 Abide With Me.. .. Violet Oppenshaw
12163 I Got Married To-day.. .. Jack Lorimer
12164 Just For To-night .. Pike and Kirkby
12166 Les Folies, Polka (Concertina)
Alexander Prince
12167 For Months and Months and Months
Osmond
12168 Mary (Kind, Kind and Gentle is She) .. Pike
12169 The Colliers .. .. .. Billy Williams
12170 H.M.S. Pinafore National Military Band
12171 The Bonnie Lass o’ Bon Accord (Violin)
Skinner
Amberol Records in Italian.
5000 All’idea di quel metallo, “ Barbiere di
Siviglia” .. Duet by Daddi and Reschiglian
5003 O soave fanciulla, “ Bohenie ”
Duet by Avezza and Daddi
5011 Uuafurtiva lagrima, “L’Elisird’ amoie ”
Solo by Dadd;
Standard Records for December
(Two-Minute).
10345 How Can They Tell I’m Irish .. .. Favor
10365 Salute to Washington March
U.S. Marine Band
10367 Underneath the Monkey Moon
Collins and Harlan
10368 Annie Laurie— Harp Solo .. .. La Rocco
10369 What’s the Matter with Father .. Murray
10370 We Shall Meet, Bye and Bye
Stanley and Gillette
10371 I’ve Set My Heart on You .. Rotnain
10373 Dreamy Town Maxwell
10374 Cupid’s I O U .. .. Jones and Murray
10376 Love’s Torment Waltz
Amer. Standard Orchestra
10378 The Bulldog-—College Song
Peerless Quartette
10379 Bachelor’s Button .. .. Sousa’s Band
13591 Tune the Old Pianner Forfle
13964 Don’t Go any Further .. .. Osmond
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Everything a Man Needs
is Best
Bought at FARMER’S.
No. 819.
These MOTOR DUST COATS are in Brown
Holland or Grey Indian Drill, single or double-
breasted, and are essential for motoring' comfort.
Single-breasted 14/6
Double-breasted 15/6
Grey Indian Drill (Single-breast* d) . . 15/6
No. 829.
MEN’S TURKISH BATH ROBES.
In Light Grounds, .with Fancy Stripes or Checks ;
exceptionally cool and comfortable.
With Collar .. .. 14/6, 18/6, 25/> each.
With Hood 22/6 „
Wool, Summer Weight .. 27/6, 32/6 ~
SHALL WE SEND YOU OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE?
'W I
.V.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fit » SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it*
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
INDIGESTION AND THE REMEDY.
The first essential to good health is sound diges-
tion. If, however, your food does not digest and
assimilate, it causes pain and sickness, creating
heart-burn and flatulency, palpitation, sour
stomach, and inevitably causes constipation, head-
ache and nervousness. That Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a valuable remedy is well illustrated
in the following case.
“ I am only too pleased to tell you that I think
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a wonderful
remedy for indigestion,” writes Mrs. Annie Birch,
10 .Allen btreet,
■ .
Mrs. A. Birch.
(From a photo.)
Pyrmont, Sydney.
“For years I was
subject to severe
attacks, but recently
they have become
quite rare. At times
I had excruciating
pains behind the
shoulder blades, deep
feelings of depression
and felt entirely un-
able to do my work.
I felt irritable and
outof sorts generally.
I took many kinds of
medicines, but until
I commenced taking
Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills the at-
tacks lasted for days.
Only yesterday I had
a slight attack, hav-
ing eaten something that did not agree with me ;
hut I took a couple of the pills last night, and to-
day I feel splendid—without a vestige of pain or
discomfort, but with renewed appetite and
brighter disposition. This is how the pills
always act upon me, and I can therefore con-
scientiously recommend them.”*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. ISO PRESERVATIVES.
■ West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMI IB & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTITONS
-—■—
In the days a-rear, the people who ran the
scoring-board at S3’dney Cricket Ground used to label
cricketing parsons, doctors and so forth with the prefix
which indicates their calling. This match against Africa
saw a change. Parson Waddy was plain E. F., and Dr.
Hordern was plain H. V. The idea is a good one. In
Australia all cricketers are equal, and receive the same
pay; therefore all distinctions should be left aside.
Cricketers who had not climbed the diamond ridge were
always consumed with anxiety lest the practice should
extend and Bill Smith be marked Sausage-maker.
Sausage-making, properly done, is a very skilled business,
demanding judgment, much sound knowledge and excel-
lent taste ; but it doesn’t sound a dignified occupation.
*. * * *
African captain Sherwell is a champion tosser,
and in all three matches has had the luck to win the
right to do as he liked. But, somehow, the luck seems
to get gone at the knees after deciding the toss.
* * * *
The charming uncertainty of cricket is some-
what in evidence just now. South Aus. smashed Vic-
toria by six wickets, and was downed by the Africans
with a margin of 281 runs. Then the Victoria that South
Aus. had beaten so badly walloped the Springboks I>3' five
wickets. Now the Ma State, which considers itself the
salt of Australia, has downed the Springboks by just
three wickets, two less than the number by which Vic-
toria did the trick. The outstanding feature is that the
Africans are heavily handicapped by being unaccustomed
to wickets such as they are called to play on in Australia.
Their victory over South Aus. showed that they had
made good use of their practice time, and the fact that
they did better against N.S.W., which is undoubtedly
much stronger at cricket than Victoria, suggests that
they are improving all the time. The question is, will
they improve fast enough to have a reasonable show’ in
the Tests? Ttiat question has a direct bearing on the
amount of the gate. ,
* * * *
One thing to be admired about the Springboks
is that they never get their tails down. When Trumper
and Bardsley were smashing the bowling they took it as
philosophically as they would maternal milk. Seventy
years of fighting with overwhelming native odds have
left that trait in the African character. They just pegged
awqy, showing no sign of fluster or nervousness, and
when the opportunity showed its nose-tip Trumper was
stumped.
’lhe trouble with the Afrieans is that they are
too stolid, too safe. They play the game and take no
chances—and lose runs. The3 T apparently imagine that
the bat is an instrument to stop the ball with mostly,
and to hit with when favorable opportunity offers. On
Monday Trumper and Bardsley showed them that it was
a weapon witli which the bowling is attacked. And in
the matter of running, the Africans are over-cautious.
The Australians “ sneaked’em ” on every possible occa-
sion, and the Africans took them only when they were
legitimately on offer, and the fat turkey went to the
venturesome.
N.3.W. cricket selectors know when to come in
out of the wet. Having displayed a lack of perception
by omitting B. J. Folkard from the 25 gentlemen who
were chosen to practise for inter-State and international
matches, they redeemed the blunder by hastily including
Folkard when sickness prevented Scott taking his
place. How they would have justified the passing
over of the others of the chosen band is hard to
imagine; but fortunately Folkard’s inclusion has been
fully justified by his performance. He broke the South
Africans right up with his six wickets for 37, and the rest
of his performance was distinctly high-class. In the
other innings he took two wickets for 53, and batted well
for a bowler, knocking up 28 and 13. Presumably, had
he turned out a failure the excuse would have been that
his terrific score of 241 the previous Saturda3' had come
like the revelation of St. Paul, suddenly and with manda-
tory emphasis.
* * * *
The bowling records suggest that it would, be
well if Cotter and Kellewa3' were taught the game before
being included in the State XI. In the first innings of
the Africans Cotter slung three no-balls and Kelleway
five ; and in the second innings Cotter perpetrated one
no ball and one wide, and Kelleway two wides. A total
of four no-balls and one wide, to Cotter, and, five no-balls
and two wides to Kelleway. Still, it was not all one
side. Even the mighty Nourae sept d,own three wides,
* * * *
“Blackbutt”: The efforts of hurricane bowler
A. Cotter against the Springboks was not an inspiriting
exhibition, and it looks certain that Australia will have
to start a hurried search for first-rate velocity experts.
In the first innings Cotter’s one wicket was gathered
for 66 runs ; in the second, they smacked 50 runs off
him without letting him have any wicket at all.
Add to this his four no-balls and his wide, and
Cotter’s solitary wicket was worth 121 runs to.
the Africans. J. Scott, the other hurricane bowler
chosen, dropped out on medical advice. So the
blessed Ma State is left with one tornado bowler
who can’t bowl worth anything, and one sick
cyclone bowler, whose doctor won’t allow him to
howl. So just now the Ma State is scratching its poll
and feeling perplexed.
* * * *
In the matter of time-wasting the S’Afriean
cricketers have nothing to learn from the Australians
and Britishers. When one of their wickets falls the
retreating man gets slowly to the pavilion before his suc-
cessor goes slowly forth to battle. There is no meeting
the trouble half-way. A S’African bowler goes through
a form of “getting his arm in” before starting his
attack. Time is wasted with malice aforethought. F’r-
instance, at a few minutes before 12, when pla3 r is to
begin, both teams are at liberty to practice, and there is
nothing to stop the forthcoming bowlers from “getting
their arms in.” Seemingly they would scprn to do
anything so reasonable. The men who were prac-
tising go into the pavilion, and at 12 o’clock
they march out to the wickets. Then the first
bowler delivers three or four practice balls to one of
his mates in the field, to get the length, or the swerve, or
Lord knows what. Why this vain parade of unreadiness?
And why the retirement for afternoon tea when an inn-
ings is about to terminate? T’other Saturda3 7 , at the
Melbourne ground, the last of the S’Africans went to the
wicket on the right side of 4 o’clock. He was a damaged
man, and a long stand for the last wicket was' practically
impossible. Yet the teams knocked off at 4 p.m. pre-
cisely for tea, and were away 20 minutes. Then there
was another five to 10 minutes of cricket and the side
was out. So they all came back to the pavilion, and no-
thing happened for another 20 minutes, save the rolling
of the pitch and the weary sighs of the tired payers.
* * *
Euroa (Vic.) has been having some sensational
cricket. Two local teams, the Tamleughs and the Capu-
lets were the players. The Tamleughs, winning the toss,
“ declared ”at 103 for five wickets. Then their trundlers
—Gourlay and Hamilton—got to work and dismissed the
Capulets twice in 15 minutes—for 9 (sundries 7) in the
first innings ; and 3 (sundry 1) in the second. Gourlay’s
average was 10 for 1 ; Hamilton’s, 9 for 3.
“The Shover ” : The other week Melbourne
Argus printed an article which barracked loudly for
Mike Moses and no interference with. Private Profits.
Presently, however, after the Cup excitement had died
down, gran’ma accidentally lifted up her large, flat foot
and kicked herself in the eye with a par., lifted from an
English newspaper, stating that at the Enghien (Paris)'
races the tote would have paid out at the rate of 3490
to lif a certain horse had come in first. This is the sort
of tote-support.ing argument to which Isaacs, Whisker
and the girls of the gran’ma breed can make no adequate-
reply.
* * * *
The Canterbury Park Three Year Old Handi-
cap (Sydney) on Saturday last was another glaring ex-
ample of the scratching swindle. No less than 22 prads-
of a sort were nominated, but only 10 faced the starter,
12 having been scratched at the last moment. This sort
of rooking should be put down ; and if the clubs won’t-
stamp it out,.then it is time the State stamped out-the-
clubs and the so-called sport that fosters the iniquity.
This writer has no objection to a straight, clean gamble,,
but it must be straight. Men who pretend to give a
straight gamble, but really hand over a scratching
swindle ought to be in gaol with the other frauds who-
sell gold bricks.
It is not as though this was an isolated example..
It’s a regular occurrence at these second-rate suburban,
courses. It was not even the only example of the day.
The Canterbury Park Welter Handicap was an evem
worse case,, in. which, of 35 horses nominated, only 17
went to. the start, 18 having been withdrawn. These
suburban, courses are piling up money just now. Attend-
ances are larger than ever before, and appear to be on the
increase. Also, the amount of money being invested is
larger before. All of which is the best otreasans-...
for the State taking a hand and either making the clubs
mend their ways or ending them. It was this kind of
swindle that led to the abolition of racing in New York:
and other Yankee States.
11 Snaffle ”: No Australian artist has done a
rattling racing picture. Everyone will agree that the-
most popular colored print in English racing hostels,
familiar likewise in-Australia, is that of “ The Cracks'
Rounding Tottenham Corner.” Pure fancy, bringing to-
gether a host that never met, such as Blair Athol, Blink
Bonny, Ormonde, Bend Or, Persimmon and so forth. The
imagination, has given the pigskin to such jocks as Ford-
ham, Archer, Grimshaw, French, Cannon, Loates, Watts,
etc. Then, the colors are picked so as to rope in Edward
Rex, Westminster, Falmouth, Rosebery, Chaplin, etc.
The hit made by this should encourage a painter boldly
to depict a rush of Fishhook, The Barb, Briseis, Chester,
Carbine, Poseidon, Comedy King,etc., fearlessly drawing
on jockeys like CUtts, Biggerson, Ashworth, Morrison,
Hales, Yeomans, Cracbneli, etc. Make play with the
colors of Tait, lie Mestre, the Fishers, White, Wallace,
Wilson, Green, etc. Napoleon said, “The imagination'
rules the world.” Stick it on.
* * * *
Australian visitors to England often complaint
of paying much at race-meetings and getting little for
it, but few' of them have said as much as the sporting
editor of the Referee says about Doncaster, where the
St. Leger is run. “People W'ould not so much mind 1
paying, I expect, if they got something for their mone3 r .
When I had settled the demands of the gatekeepers, I
had nine shillings change out of a five-pound note, but
I happen to be a member of one of the stands, and
consequently am able to see the racing well enough.
Those who are not members of stands pay their £4
11s., and, they protest, see nothing.”
* *
London Truth positively denies the story
(Australia had it by cable) that jockey Loates left a for-
tune of a quarter of a million, and states it as not over
£so,ooo—which was less than Fred Archer’s pile of long
ago.
* * * *
Friday and a pretty crowd saw the commence-
ment of the 46th inter-State lawn tennis tourney betweem
the Ma State and Victoria, on the Albert Ground (Melb.).
At the end of the first day’s play—two rounds of singles
—Ma had five rubbers to her credit, while Victoria
boasted seven. On Saturday nine matches of doubles
were to settle the issue, but w'hen seven had
been played—four going to N.S.W. and three to-
Victoria—the rain interfered and left matters unde-
cided till Monday, when honors were easy. So
the disturbance ended by Vic. winning the singles (7 to 5)
and N.S.W. the doubles (5 to 4). Lumping the scores
Ma was thus beaten—ll to 10. While Vic. was doing this
unpleasantness to Mother, its second team was having a
strenuous time with S. Aus., and the latter just managed 1
a win—ll to 10. This week the various contestants are-
deciding whether the Buckley Cup shall stay in N.S.W.
or pass back to Vic.
Of the ladies’ games, only four doubles and'
three singles between Vic. and S.A., had transpiredC
when the proceedings were swamped out, as it were, andl
Victoria had won the lot. It is saddening that all
these skirted racqueters are seasoned veterans, if one may
be permitted to state it so ; and even the languid grace-
of Miss Lovely and little Miss G3'ton’s cheerful squeak
fail to interest like a dash of new blood. Also, can’t the ■
Mater State raise a team of tennis girls?
* * * *
After a quarter of a century of inter-State-
tennis struggles, N.S.W. is still behind Victoria. The
defeat of the Cornstalks last week left the tally, Victoria
24 wins, N.S.W. 22 ; and the Ma State doesn’t like it, as,
it gives some sort of color to the Victorian demand that
the centre of Australian tennis should be shifted from
Sydney to Melbourne. #
It appears nowthat the beating Wilding got from
Decugisin tennis at Brussels in September was all due to
the deadly strain of the five-set match. Wilding w’on
the first two sets, and got to within one point of winning
the third. But, losing that, he tired, and lost the last
two anyhow.
* * * *
Durnan, the Canadian sculler, nephew of the
mighty Hanlan, the man who came all the way from
Canada to Penrith (N.S.W.) to be beaten by George
Towns in 1907, is anxious to have a match with Arnst.
He has been talking of it for ever so. long, ever since
Richard became champion, bulb it has never got beyond
talking. The talking breaks out at irregular intervals,
and Richard has got tired of it. Durnan suggested
among other things that, as he had already visited Aus-
tralia once, it was a fair thing for the Australasian to
take a trip to Canada. “Certainly,”replied Richard ;
“ delighted, I’m sure. But I’m champion ; and there’s
plenty doing locally. Let’s get down to bedrock. Plank
£2OO for exes, in any reputable bank in Canada, and I’ll
start at any time you care to mention.” Durnan now has
the matter in his own hands, and it is to be hoped that
he will plank up or shut up.
* * * *
Races for the sculling championship of the
world have been held in all sorts of places. The Fitzroy,
in Central Queensland, was the battle-water once. Ned
Trickett won the championship of the world from J. H.
Sadler on the Thames in 1876. After holding the belt
for some years he went off to the Thames to squelch
Hanlan, the Canadian. But the Canadian did the
squelching. After that, Trickett went back to Rock-
hampton, and turned publican. Hanlan came out in
1888, and the two faced the water again on the Fitzroy
River, with the old result. The Fitzroy saw a little more
of some other champions in 1890. Four competitors
raced ; the winner was Peter Kemp, then champion of
the world, with Stanbury second. The other two were
well-known local oarsmen.
* * * *
Australian boy-billiardist George Gray is going
to kill his .pig by developing into a one-stroke
player. The star billiardist, after all, depends upon
his ability to attract the public for a living, and if
there is one thing the billiard-following public hates
more than the plague or sudden death, it is a monotonous
one-stroke game. The “spot stroke,” the “cradle
cannon,” and all the rest of them, have palled so upon
spectators that, to satisfy the public, they have had to be
barred. Even the ordinary ball cannon, when used too
often, becomes wearisome. The successful billiardist,
like the lady of fortune, must be a creature of infinite
variety.
* * # *
The N.S.W. Ladies’ Amateur Swimming Asso-
ciation held its annual meeting this week, under the
presidency of Miss Rose Scott. The burning question
was whether the ladies should have male assistance in
the swimming baths, and such a dead set was made
against the male things, that any girls who favored their
presence were frozen into silence before they got a chance
to put in a word for the short-haired quantity. Event-
ually it was ruled that members could go surfing with
males so long as they didn’t wear the Association’s badge
or uniform. The chances are that the Association’s uni-
form and badge will soon be quite unknown.
* * * *
The Yankee-Spanish aviator Moissant, has an-
nounced his intention of flying from Havana, in Cuba,
to Key West, off the coast of Florida (U.S.A.). Great
stress is laid on the fact that the water he will try to
soar over is infested with sharks. But there’s more
Yankee bluff than danger about it. He will be kept in
view by craft all the time, and if he does fall the splash
will certainly scare every shark within a mile clean out
of the neighborhood for a week.
* * * ♦
Motorists in Europe are having a good time,
owing to the fight between the Standard Oil Co., which
handles Pratt’s Motor Spirit, and the Shell Transport Co.,
which controls the bulk of the Russian and Asiatic oil
wells. The price has dropped 3jd. per gallon, and motor-
ists are whooping both parties enthusiastically. As the
gang owns to a capital of £60,000,000 and the
Shell crowd has £40,000,000, things are likely to hum for
a brief space.
* * * *
Sleepy little Tassie surpassed itself last week
when it put up 25 cars and 13 motor-bikes to compete in
the Reliability Test from Launceston to Hobart and back,
a distance of 244 miles. The conditions were as
stringent as they make ’em, but the majority
of the competitors came through without a stop
for either engine adjustment or tyre repairs. The
; running of the bikes was so even that no award could
be given, and a further test will have to be held. The car
men were more fortunate ; C. Saul with his 25 to 30 h.p.
/Cadillac won first place for all-round performance, with
;S. Nieholls in a 12-h.p. Olement-Talbot, and G. M. Jack-
son in a 15-h.p. Austin second and third respectively.
Evidently, the Tasmanian Motor Club is not nearly so
dead as the rest of the Sleep Isle.
* * * ■»
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen is apparently be-
ginning to feel that it has opened its face and put its foot
in it over the Victorian ’Cyclists’ Union. It now proposes
to send a delegation to Victoria to interview both bodies,
with the idea of straightening things out. Which is all
bluff. The League is in a hole, and proposes to wade out
magnificently by posing as arbitrator.' Rats 1.
« *• * *
Some interesting figures have recently come to
light, from which the world learns that in the United
States there are 600,000 cars, worth, roughly, £45,000,000;
which is equal to one car for every 160 people, or,
roughly, six cars for every 1000 people. In Australia
there are 5000 cars for nearly 5,000,000 people, or one per
1000.
* * * *
“ S.” : “Sowth Melbin” takes its ’oofball very
seriously. On the Sunday following the semi-final, when
South was “ outed ” by Collingwood, I took a walk over
the “Hill,” and was astonished to find erfipe on many
door-knobs. Commenting on the excessive mortality of
the suburb, in the dim religious light of a Sabbath bar,
I provoked the retort: “ Garn, them ain’t deaths ! That
cr6pe’s up on account er Sowth gettin’ downed a-Satter-
dee.” The publican told me sadly that it would be a month
before “ Sowth ” had quite recovered its old, happy appre-
ciation of beer.
* * * *
A youth who seems likely to make a name for
■ himself in the athletic world is Thomas Wellington, of
the Christian Brothers’College (Melbourne). Last week
he won the Adamson Challenge Cup for his school at the
Combined Schools’Sports by bagging thelOOyds., 220yds.,
high jump and long jump (all under 16), and long jump
■(open). Wellington, who is only 15, is a cheerfublooking
•child of sft. Bin.
* * * *
If the catchweight disturbance between Bron-
son/the Yankee, and Sid Sullivan, the Australian, at
Sydney Stadium- last week, was not fruitful of remark-
able skill, it was at least unusually interesting. It was
one of the cleanest fights ever-seen in the sea-girt city.
That Sullivan was able.to go the whole 20 rounds against
a much heavier opponent, taller and with a longer
reach,- earned for him a helping hurrah from every
man round the ring. And he deserved it. With
the exception of a few sweeping rallies, he took
the butt end of the argument throughout; and
although Bronson, on the night’s showing, doesn’t
seem to be the caretaker of a finishing clout for a groggy
enemy, that does not detract from Sullivan’s account.
; What he got came hard and often ; and if he did manage
' to stop half the cargo of wallops oi. the way, the balance
•duly arrived. In between whiles he banged Bronson
with a clever left stah, but Bronson smiled serenely and
! went on with his long drawn-out job of wearing the other
man down. He hadn’t finished it when the gong went at
the end of the 20th round, but he had piled up so many
•points that “Snowy” Baker had no difficulty in sorting
..him out as winner
Somebody writes to ask why the Yankees are so
superior in the boxing: department. Well, one possible
explanation is this: There is a big population in the
United States, and it is, moreover, a population in which a
large number of the births are of the first generation. The
first generation in a new country is usually virile and
adventurous. That is, it is born with the combative
faculty developed large. And being born so, it finds itself
in a congenial environment where a man with no educa-
tion to speak of, but with pugilistic capabilities, can earn
more than many professional men. Such a state of affairs
encourages the’development of boxers, and the develop-
,ment is further expedited by the fact that the United
States public have little time for a beaten man ; so there
are always plenty of vacancies. The necessity for success
and the possibilities of the game as a money-making
business, have called into existence a huge class of in-
structors—men who have made a study of physical cul-
ture with a view to making the perfect boxer. Then,
when these made boxers come into a country where the
boxer is born and not made, and where he meets with
so little encouragement that he is generally past his first
youth when he attains to international rank, the manu-
factured pug generally comes out on top. Another
reason why the Australian of the present generation
seems to be inferior to the Vank is that the Yank is
generally a man with a large conceit of himself and by
means of his press notices, “ general dog,” and so forth,
he manages to bluff the Australian into taking him at his
own valuation. Which is a devil of a mistake in any
game in which scrapping is a considerable constituent. A
boxer requires to take after his Maker in the matter of
being no respecter of persons. *
The fighting at Melb. Athletic Club’s hall on
the night of the Campbell-Jennings contest provides the
Wowsers with wowsing material of which they have not
made use up to the time of writing. Probably this is be-
cause there is no big boxing interest about, and your true
Wowser loves to worry only the sins that popular fancy is
concentrated on. The night’s scrapping sent two men to
hospital. Campbell, who beat the neater, nicer and
more scholastic fighter, after 18 rounds of hard battling,
with a swoop that lit on Bert’s chin like a run-
away aeroplane, had to betake himself to the casualty
ward to have his nose upholstered. The preliminary,
Fogarty v. Welsh, was little more than a bright spar,
which ended with a skying of the towel from Fogarty’s
corner. Fogarty collapsed after the event, was taken to
the hospital in an unconscious state, and never recovered.
Laceration of the brain, says the medical gent. one. This
death, coming so soon after the killing of Soldier Rogers,
will give the game in Melbourne a nasty swipe. For all
that, boxing could not be milder and survive. It was bad
luck and a weak spot that killed young Fogarty.
* * * *
“ Oscar G.”: A novel trajuing ground for race-
horses is pegged out on the shingly beach at Porirua, near
Wellington (M.L.), where Jos. Prosser’s big stable is
located. It is in the oval shape of a full-sized course,
with furlong posts, barrier hurdles and log-jump, and
many a “good thin«i M has been brought to big-dividend
condition there. At full tide the track is moistened by
4ft. of sea, and the Maoris tie up their canoes to the five-
furlong post and haul fish. During these periods the
gallopers exercise up a four-mile clay hill just to keep
them “on their tucker.” After being used to Randwick
it was queer to see a brace of hurdlers scamper round
through a foot of liquid salt, ridden by boys in long,
rubber boots. Both A. Oliver and W. Ryan, well known
in Australia, their riding on these hard sands, and
such horses as Achilles, Maniapoto, All Red, Lady
Medallist, etc., did shower-bath gallops over the sea-shells
as a wind-up. Fully appointed race meetings were held
on the course many years ago, and the story is still told
of a final race in the dark, when the tide and everybody
else was full and the winning horse swam home by a nose.
* * * *
Is Jack Johnson’s career as champion over?
The tall darkie had an attack of nervous indigestion last
week, and finally collapsed—went out so thoroughly that
the doctors were working on him an hour before they’
brought him round. Considering the rank and odor of
the men he has devoured, Johnson ought to have no sign
of indigestion, nervous or otherwise, about him.
* * * *
Old Bob Fitzsimmons is none the worse off for
having abandoned the square ring, as he and his dashing
wife are piling up dollars in Yankee vaudeville. At
present, they have struck an absolute bonanza in the
shape of a sketch written for them by Jack London, the
alleged Socialist and reformer, who said he would rather
be champion heavyweight of the world than President of
the United States and King of England and Emperor of
India and the Britons Beyond the Seas.
* * * *
“ The Plugger ” : There’s a crack-brained agi-
tation in Svdney just now for "ring-side weighing,” and
Sydney Sunday Sun, which ought to know better, is
backing it up. Theoretically, it sounds fair, square and
above board ; but, practically, there is nothing in it. The
less preliminaries there are at a scrap the better. Even
now there is too much blither in the shape of announce-
ments. W. J. 0. Kelly, as decent a man as ever wore
shoe leather, and one of the best fellows in the world
to meet, is busy tearing his voice to pieces announc-
ing that on Wednesday night, here at the Stadium (Syd-
ney), Long Jab will meet Short Arm Jolt, etc., etc., etc.
The announcements are useful, of course, to the fight
fans, as the bruise-followers are called ; but there’s such
a thing as too much preliminary. And if on top of Kelly's
yells comes a long-winded weighing of pugs, things will
become dreary. When men undertake to fight at not
more than 10st., and one of them is fool enough to
allow the other to get away with two or three
what matter so long as he does it with his eyes open .. It 9
his funeral. The ring-side weighing is one of the things
that are not what they seem or sound.
A WORD OF CONSOLATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The general body of backers fared very badly in their
endeavors to find winners, four of half a dozen events
falling to rank outsiders, while only one first favorite —
and that one at odds on—triumphed.— Sporting column.
I see the Also Rans go by .
With loudly thudding whips ;
Around the course I watch them fly
Upon their hopeless trips ;
For well ahead and going strong
At a tremendous pace
Is some d d thing that won’t go wrong !
’Tis there in ev’ry race !
Large clods from its triumphant heels
Come pelting as they ride ;
In vain, in vain to snorts and squeals
The jocke3'’s whips are plied ;
Some wondrous Force that scorns the pack—
The Devil, Luck or Fate-
Shoves al\va3'B one horse round the track
And hurls it up the straight!
O Backer of the Also Ran,
Vain is your punting prayer I
Since Time and Laying Odds began
That power has been there
To put the wormwood in the Cups
And curses on the lips
Of him who breakfasts, dines and sups;
On sporting news and tips.
N.S.W.
WALKING-HOME.


The “MOTA” (Regd.J.
The “ Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking:, driving: or riding:, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine day's,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota ” is tiik hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £5OO.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
j WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
I
\
Shell
motor
Spirit
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
OIHTMEHT
rare
SHOE
LOOK FOR NAME IN SHOE.
Style A 1511—
The Bogo.
Glace Kid
Blucher
Oxford
dfg
213
Plenty of
room for
every toe
In addition to evcr v essential of
a good shoe, the
Marshall Low Shoe has “Natural
Shape” lasts which assure comfort
without “breaking in,” and “Hugtite”
heels and insteps which prevent
chafing and gaping.
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in Stock.
1/ yours don't , write and we will send you
address of the nearest Dealer , with Catalog
Marshall Shoe Co.
Makers of Men’s Fine Shoes
Richmond, Vic.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S I
iree Witches
afAKlTTfft
m
10
for
London Ham*
%
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being' a curse in your borne and a nuisance to
your friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S. W\). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street, Melbourne ; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, VV.A. [3
THE MOMENT YOU SEE
a Rigney Shoe you will notice its high-grade appearance,
smart shape and fine finish.
And when you get acquainted with the great service-
ability of Rigney Shoes, you will become a permanent
customer of ours.
The Shoe illustrated is a Black Phoenix Calf Derby Shoe.
215., 225. 6d. y 255.
Also in Tan, 235. 6d., 255. Ditto in Boots.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
sdf
gs
They’re Built to stand the Strain
B. &B. Cycles are built to stand the strain of hard riding. They
are put together by expert workmen from the best materials
it is possible to procure.
Our B. & B. Standard costs £l5, and you get every penny of
the price back, in a machine that will stand the test of any
road. Call and see one. We are open till 9 p.m. on Fridays.
Or send for catalogue.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL ... ... £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300.000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
Bligk Street, SYDNEY ;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
DUN LOP TYRES
E" -■:^>>"
.:'U V "ft*’ •
IlllfeiiS!
(U
'’* 1 - > V,V ; V«s
i'V- ■,*
rMh
ycS
m
Utt
I
ilila
/;f:J?4;4;
k §
0^!;
.
Mpll
■ |
lilted
it§@ii
4s&
.-'•?■< -. ** '-'; .‘ >,
i r / -:>.'',- .•' Sr
$M$ (
rnmks
v i r
, ’"' :4‘ r*
9 - < 3?
J
IS
DoysLrcn
EMBEDDED IN
Mr?:
wm
ysfe*
*.;• v
, ~ ~ RtBOENBT
* FRANCIS BIRTLES
iSffifj
ijy-*,
4 Round Australia, 10,000 fllilei
m
HAVE NO EQUAL FOR HARD RIDING
That is why every Transcontinental Cycle Ride of note—accomplished
in Australia—has been established on these Reliable and Durable
Tyres, which are always selected when the “Best” is required.
Let us post you our Illustrated Booklet, “All About Dunlop Tyres,”
which will be forwarded gratis upon receipt of your name and address.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Christchurch, N Z.
Probably the most surprised man in Aus-
tralia was Attorney-General Hughes when the
House of Reps, gave a three to one majority
against him on an important clause of the Defence
Bill. A citizen army, such as the future army of
Australia is to be, must always contain a tem-
porary and a permanent element. The private is
a passing circumstance, like the student in a
college ; he learns his business and goes. The
officer is permanent, like the college professor.
But now and then it is bound to happen that
the ranker will take a liking to the game
and will want to enter the military col-
lege and qualify for a steady job, and if
he is simply told that he is too old to
make a start the country is liable to lose some
very good officers. On the other hand, if nobody
is eligible to enter the military college unless he
starts so young that he doesn’t really know
whether the army is his vocation or not, the
country is liable to acquire a lot of very bad
officers—men who form a separate caste and
keep a great gulf between themselves and the
rank and file. Hughes, it would seem, believes
strongly in the separate caste of officers. Roberts,
of S. A..met him with a proposition that a man
who had put in three years’ service might enter
the military college and start training for an
officer’s position, provided he wasn’t more than 27
years old ; and the House, by 36 votes to 12,
accepted Roberts’s suggestion. So the idea of a
separate officer caste was passed out, and the
most astonished Attorney-General south of the
line adjourned the debate in haste.
One of the amazing anomalies of the back-
blocks is that, the more whole-hog a township
goes for Labor, the more likely one is to find a
Chow or Jap baker or laundryinen on the pre-
mises. Kalgoorlie, which is nine-tenth miner or
dependent on miner, goes to the wash pretty
often ; and the wash is wholly Japanee.. Quite
200 white men and women could be employed at
the job, but the local municipal authorities won’t
refuse licenses to the yellow streak. At East
Fremantle and Leonora the Jap-licensed laundry-
man is disallowed ; but at Kalgoorlie, where there
are hundreds of women whose husbands have
been killed or disabled on the mines, the brown
man has full swing. It is a source of great sorrow
to the Fat of the goldfields that Chows are not
allowed on the place.. But Fat may live in hope.
The men who don’t object to yellow competition
with miners’ widows at the wash-tub may yet be
brought to see the inconsistency of objecting to
yellow competition with miners underground.


Es
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLERS
807,809,811,815,815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY,N.S.W
LS
JEWELLER/
.>HtrtCHs CLOqkj
1 maker/?
SILVERSMITH
0 0HSULT//y c
.OPTICIAN
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Seal
PENDANT, Ame-
thyst or Topaz,
15/, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold LINKS,
120/.
15ct Gold, 40/.
Initials Engraved Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bird and Floral BROOCH,
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BRACELET, set Red, Green, or Blue Stones,
35A
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
PURSE, Hand Chased,
10/
Larger, 12/6. 9ct Gold,
£2/10/; 15ct Gold, £4.
A. SAUNDEP*.
Oct Gold PEN-
DANT, Set Pearls
and Amethysts,
17/6
A. SAtJNDEKS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sapphires
£B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SAFETY PIN,
5/6.
Smaller size, 4/6; larger, 6/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Mizpah and Ivy Leaf Spray
BROOCH, 12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCH BOX, §/(>•
Larger,- Embossed, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Horse-
shoe SCARP PIN,
' ' 7/6.
Smaller, 5/6.
CHARMING
GIFT.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLACE, set Fine Pearls and
Amethysts,
£3/15/.
15ct Gold, £5/5/. Pearls and
Tourmaline, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS,
lact Gold, set
Diamond and Ruby,
35/.
2 Diamonds, £2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gol~ Expanding WATCH-BRACELET, Lever
movement, full Jewelled, a perfect, accurate, and
reliable timekeeper,
£O/10/.
Extra Jewelled Movemen, Heavier Bangle,
£7/10/, £B/10/, £lO/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold-mounted
CIGAR CUTTER,
10/6-
Gold and
Pearl Roller
charm,
3/6.
A. SAUNDEItS.
9ct Gold
COLLAR
STUD,
ox u u,
5/0.
15ct Ciold, 8/6.
Silver, 1/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS,
15/.
Extra heavy, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct 3-Bar BROOCH, Bure White
Pearls, 17/6.
XMAS GIFTS
FOR EVERYONE.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE IS FULL OF
OTHER IDEAS
-SEND FOR A CORY
'
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EARRINGS, set
Pearls and any
Colour Stones,
30/.
Extra Quality,
£2, £2/10/.
Our Catalogue
is full of
beautiful
suggestions
for Xmas
Gifts.
We pay
postage
on all these
Goods
to £!"”• address
in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
S-olid Gold NECKLACE. Pet Fine
Pearls and Diamond-cut Tourmalines
£7/10/-
With Diamonds, £l5.
Pure White
or Peridots,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS, set Pearls
and any colour
Stones,
25/.
Extra quality,
£2, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BAND
RING, set Red,
Green, or Blue
Stones, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold PIN
and SLIPPER
CHARM,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Soid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, {-Plate, Full
Jewelled, Patent Adjusted
Balance,
25/.
Higher Grades, 30/, 35/, 40/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£4/10/, £5.
SILVER.
25/,
GOLG.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Photo. PENDANT,
Pearl and Red or Blue Stones,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£2.
Large Diamond, £2/10/, £3.
•aov-i
N3<lo
HIGHER
GRADE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-faced Keyless Knock-about
WATCH, Patent Adjusted Balance, Non-
magnetic, Dust and Water Proof Cases,
20/-
Higher Grade, 25/. Guaranteed Free
Repair for 1 Year.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-chased Juvenile BRACELET,
15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Circle BROOCH,
set Pearls and Turquoise,
25A
A. SAUNDERS.
luct Gold BROOCH, set Fine Quality
Opal,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 15
Fine Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £l5-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l2/10/.
dfg
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, 3
Pure Double-
cut Diamonds,
£ 5-
Diamond, 2
Rubies, or Sap-
phires,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold NECKLACE, set Fine Pure White Pearls
and Amethysts,
£2/17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, Dia-
monds and Ru-
bies or Sap-
phires,
£7/10/-
All Diamonds,
£2O.
SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 14
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and
Choice Black
Opal,
£l5
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sapphires,
£S.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold “Lome Pillar” MUFF CHAIN, a Charming and Rich Design, £5/10/, £6/10/,
15ct Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. Any Design Made to Order.
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
HOI.
SOLID
SILVER.
£2.
HIGHER
GRADE.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Lever WATCH, Full Jewelled, Non-
magnetic, a Perfect Timekeeper, 40/-
Extra Jewelled, with Patent Chrono-
meter Balance, High-grade Finish, 50/.


mnttej
MIPHIM
|K.|P^P
Mil
tun#
mnn>
<QllhmnTTmnminn|to
•-- life-
f ,4497
H
4*
gr
llTin
flsrs.
.^■v.Tvj
;< i ?
V: -
.>
sK>
r • 9*
m
v
-V
WEDDING CAKE GOODNESS.
THE WEDDING CAKE that confers our added charm to the Wedding Breakfast
is the one made by Sargents'. There is little wonder at this when you con-
sider the superiority of Sargents' Wedding Cakes. The ingredients used are
the very finest and purest obtainable, and are scientifically prepared and baked by
the most modern appliances. Sargents' Wedding Cakes, besides being beautifully
designed and decorated, have reached the point of excellence in both flavor and
quality. Prices, which are quite moderate, on application.
Sarg'ents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Cateringr, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the • World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing' Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
CAPILLARINE the moustache producer
©
b*
Don’t Look a Woman-Man!
A moustache is the mark of manliness—if you can’t'grow one or only
a thin straggly apology for a moustache, use our CAPILLARINE.
It’s been used with unvarying success for 30 years now—only needs to
be applied to the upper lip on retiring—can never be noticed. It just
makes hair grow luxuriantly—never fails where there’s the slightest
down.
Price 10/6 Jar
to any address in the World,
in Plain Package.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George St., Sydney.
F.stahlisheri 30 Ypars.
s
&UIA fountain
JWAN nn
The Seep Present
for Christmas, for business men and
women, students and all busy folks.
You see, a “ Swan ” means to its
user a lifetime of ease and
comfort in writing.
s.
CATALOGUE FREE.
MABIE, TODD & CO.,
Makers, LONDON,
or J. A. BURKE,
(Wholesale only),
15 Waltham Building,
24 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
[2
Smks
Ik
K
S -
Give
“SWANS"
This
Christmas.
Sold by all HIGH-CLASS STATIONERS
and JEWELLERS.
INSIST ON “ SWAN
the Simple, yet tried and trusty Fountain Pen.
THE “BANKER
AERATED WATER
MACHINE
No. 905—The “ Banker” 1910 Model, with Automatlo Turnover Syrup Rack and latest improvements.
Sold on Easy Terms. Backed with our 5 Years’ Guarantee.
WORKS LIKE A CLOCK.
THE “BANKER” produces perfectly aerated water —10 gallons can be thoroughly
saturated in three minutes. Better and snappier sodawater than produced by any
other machine. No failure of the working is possible. Connecting pipes pure tin.
Water can be connected direct from the water main, every particle of gas being used. No
perishable rubber hose or tedious rocking of the cylinder.
ACCESSORIES. —Syrups, bottles, cases, gas and every requirement for the mineral
water trade at lowest market rates, ...
“ BANKER” SYRUPINGr RACK.—The best on the world’s market. _ Note the solid
construction. The smallest detail has been attended to on the “ BANKER,” and 40 Dozen
canbe filled and syruped by a boy in one hour.
Marble Soda Fountains, Carbonators,
Draft Arms, Ice Boxes, write for particulars.
EVERYTHING! SUPPLIED FROM A STRAW TO A SODA FOUNTAIN.
Complete Machines (Rocking System) - £3O
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
167 GEORGE STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
Agents for Queensland - PAUL & CONNAN, Queen Street, Brisbane.
„ W.A. = - J. DUFFELD & CO., Perth.
FOUR NOTABLE BOOKS.
1. The Most Beatitiftil Gift BooK of the Year.
FRANK BRANGWYN & HIS WORK. By WALTER SHAW-SPARROW.
With 20 Color Plates, 16 Collotype Reproductions of Etchings, Lithographs and Drawings, and a Cover
specially designed by Mr. BRANGWYN. Crown 4to. 10s. 6d. net.
A Large Paper Edition, with extra illustrations, and an Etching signed by the Artist, specially executed for this
edition, of which the plate will afterwards be destroyed. Limited to 160 copies for England and America. £5 ss. net.
A FEAST OB' COLOR 1 That probably will be the first impression produced by this lavishly illustrated record
of the life and work of Frank Brangwyn; that undoubtedly will constitute one of its most potent attractions to
dwellers beneath our clouded skies. Mr. Brangwyn is as many-sided as one of the great artists of mediasval times,
and all his various activities have been dealt with in the following pages; but for most of us it is as a colorist he
stands out pre-eminently. Even those of us who know least about art can enjoy the happy audacity of his
“ Buccaneers,” the deep and mellow harmonies of his “ Venetian Funeral.” As a BYerich critic has expressed it,
there is in all his work “ a something intensely vivid, a something glowing and irradiating that delights the eye.”
Students of Brangw.vn’s work in all its forms—Oil Pictures, Water Colors, Decorative Designs, Etchings, etc.
—will find in the illustrations to Mr. Shaw-Sparrow’s elaborate monograph such opportunities for comparison as
they have never enjoyed before. Nor is there any lack of “human interest” in the story Mr. Shaw-Sparrow has
to tell, for throughout Brangwyn’s varied career—his boyhood in Bruges, his association with William Morris,
his long and eventful voyages ail over the world—there is an underlying suggestion of Adventure and Romance.
2. An Exceptional Essayist.
THE VIEWS OF “VANOC”: AN ENGLISHMAN’S OUTLOOK.
Foolscap Bvo. ss. net.
A selection from the remarkable essays which Mr. ARNOLD WHITE, over the pseudonym “ Vanoc,” has
been contributing during the last two or three years to the front page of the Referee. They cover an extra-
ordinarily wide field of observation and reflection, from naval armaments and the ways of the War Office, to
gardening and forestry, eugenics and education, marriage and divorce. Mr. Arnold White arrests attention and
stimulates thought. His views are his own views expressed in a style of singular vigor and individuality. They
will be read and re-read not merely throughout the United Kingdom, but in the remotest corners of the Empire.
3. The Best BooK on the Subject.
ARGENTINA: PAST AND PRESENT. By W. H. KOEBEL.
With 60 pages of illustrations. Royal Svo. 12s. 6d. net.
This latest book of W. H. Koebel’s, the result of recent extended travels in the Southern Republic, deals with
Argentina in a more comprehensive fashion than it has been possible for the author to attempt until now.
“ The brilliance of Mr. Koebel’s work on Portugal led us to expect great things when he returned to a subject he
knows so well as Argentina, and we are not disappointed with his description of the country and its great resources
in the book published to-day. It is redolent of the land, permeated by the atmosphere of its prosperity. The glow-
ing health and high spirits of the ‘ gaucho ’ seem to pervade its pages. We feel all the time that we stand on* the
open, generous, sun-swept soil of the Republic.’ The blaze of the Poinsettias, dwelt upon so much in the description
of the voyage up the Parana, is an apt symbol of the blaze of prosperity on the shores of La Plata.”—Evening Standard.
4. An Old Favorite in its 18th Edition.
THE MARTYRDOM OF MAN. By E. WINWOOD READE.
New Edition revised, with introduction and life of the author by F. LEGGE. With a portrait of the author in
photogravure. Crown Bvo. ss.
The author of the “ Martyrdom of Man ” died a disappointed man. In life he never achieved the fame predicted
for him by his uncle, Charles Reade, the popular novelist. The book was written in the heat of the bitterrstruggle
between conservative Christianity and rampant atheism, and here and there marks of the controversies of the time
obtrude themselves. But in spite of the occasional prejudices manifested in the work it has won its way to the
position of a classic, and still holds its place as the clearest and most entertaining purview and summary of the
world’s history ever written.
Time has worn smooth the bitter edges of the controversy, and the most rigid opponent of his views on religious
questions can now look calmly on his biting sarcasms as a mere product of his time and circumstances, and still
appreciate the marvellously clear and comprehensive outlook on the world’s history. The life of the author, which
is told in this edition for the first time, is one of extraordinary and romantic interest, and his remarkable achieve-
ments as an explorer, beginning at the aire of 22, taken in conjunction with the writing of the “Martyrdom
of Man,” only 10 years later, display a combination of the genius of the explorer and the thinker which has seldom
been equalled.
Illustrated Catalogue of Autumn Books Sent Post Free
on Application.
Kegaiv Paul, Trench, Trubner U Co., Ltd.,
Dryden House, Gerrard Street, London, W.


REALLY TERRIBLE
SKIN TROUBLES
Girl’s Head a Mass of Humour—Grew
Thin and Weak —Despaired of
Ever Curing Her—Baby was Even
Worse with Running Eczema—No
Signs of Eruption Left Now.
MOTHER TELLS HOW
CUTICURA CURED BOTH
“My little girl’s head started with a
lot of pimples and then they began to
m
o
fill with matter and
discharge. As
fast as one broke
there was a lot
more came out un-
til her head was a
complete mass of
running sores. For
I days she would not
take any notice of
us. She began to
get thin and weak
and I gave up all
hope of ever get-
ting her head well
again until I saw
about the Cuticura
Remedies. But
Cuticura made it
quite well again (it was bad for about
six months). Her hair is getting lovely
and thick now.
“Cutieura cured my baby’s face at
the same time. His dear little nose and
chin were raw with this same complaint
and used to run and bleed awfully. When
I have carried him down from his sleep
his pillow would be covered witTi blood.
One day my neighbour carried him down
and she screamed to see him covered
with blood where the places had been
running. But now he is entirely free
from anything and is such a lovely fat
boy. His nose was nearly eaten away
with it. I was told by people in the
village that it was the running eczema.
I tried endless ointments but none did
it any good till I received the Cutieura
and I am glad to say that it has cured
both of them. Mrs. L. Brown, Manor
Cottages, Stanwick, nr. Wellingborough,
Northamptonshire, Eng., Nov. 12,1909.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Cutieura Is the most economical treatment known
for the skin, scalp, hair and hands, ot infants,
children and adults. A tablet of Cutieura Soap and
a box of Cutieura Ointment are often sufficient to
cure. Sold throughout the world. Depots: London.
27. Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 10. Rue de la Chaussee
d'Antin: Australia, R.Towns*Co.. Sydney: U.S.A..
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
43PPost-free. 32-page Cutieura book, containing
Invaluable advice on the Treatment of Skin Troubles.
"MOTHER
pßlNfp • IT
s
IP
)X-'
% / ■
r &,
O
■OO KD
LctonSqimsi
RCQDTEDCDTMDE-ndDn LEHOS
Brooke’s Lemon
Squash is a pure and
satisfying beverage of
the very highest stan-
dard of quality and as
a thirst-quencher it is
unequalled.
1,500,000 lemons
are used annually in
making this popular
beverage.
Made from Lemons
only
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
- in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying: since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. KLCEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyard Street, SYDNEY.
IF YOU SUFFER
FROM
INDIGESTION
HEADACHES-BILIOUSNESS
LANGUOR-PALPITATION
!
LOSS OF APPETITE
CONSTIPATION OR
ACIDITY.
a course of Mother Seigel’s Syrup
will quickly set you right. It is
a highly-concentrated, vegetable
remedy, having direct action on the
scomach, liver, and bowels. It tones
up and strengthens the stomachy
aids digestion, stimulates the action-
of the liver, gently regulates the
bowels, expels all impurities from
the system, purifies and enriches the
blood, and thus imparts health and
W EF Ip
I
tone to every part of
the body. Thou-
sands of men and
women are every
year cured of indigestion, biliousness,
constipation, and other stomach and
liver disorders by the aid of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. Their testimony,
given witfiout fee or reward, affords
con vincing, proof that Mother Seigel’s
Syrup possesses curative and strength-
ening properties not found in any
other medicine. As a digestive tonic
and stomachic remedy, it has no
equal. Take it daily, after meals.
J
Mrs. Wilson. 121.
Cooper St., Waterloo,
N.S.W., says: —“In-
digestion was at the root
of all my troubles.
Often I would no sooner
get a little food down'
than up it would come
again. I was worn out
by continual illness,'
when I first took Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. In less
than two months, I was
fully restored to health
and strength. ''-10/7/09.
MOTHER
Seigels Syrup
- 1
MADE OF CURATIVE EXTRACTS OF ROOTS.
BARKS AND LEAVES.
Use the
“NUGGET” POLISHES.
WATERPROOF
TRADE
MARK.
TERCD
REGIS
qQiIIOh
m fr
Saci
of any
f *V7f| Q I Mtmer froa C^ cfJ
for Patent. Glac£ Kid.Bqx
OTHER
Melbourne A
DOUBLE THE LIFE OF YOUR BOOTS
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Business, Robbery, etc.
From “Nipper 'Arris”: lam much annoied
because The Bulletin cracked up the toll Sistem for
Telephones. The way you talked about It I thought I
was going to have a Bonser Time. There’s one thing you
didn’t think about and that is the hard lot of the Offis
Boy. With no ringing up I thought Id have nothing to
do but read “Spurting Blood, the Flying Chief of the
Cayuse Nation.” I was mistaken. ’Stead of ringing up
the Boss has me walking all over Sydney delivering
messages. Saves by the bloomin’hatful that way.
If yer any good at arithmetik you can work out how
many £s one week of me walking over Sydney saves.
The Wild Cat ought to tell you at once. If It cant Id
give It the bullet, and git one of the Siamese fellines that
Mr. Hash Ellis talks about. They've got Intelleck. You
never hear a Siamese Cat crackin up Tole telefones. And
what about the cost of Boots? I’m tryin to git a Bloke
to git me a job in the publik service. Mr. Wade gives
you a rise when the elecsions comes round which is more
than I git ere. I haven’t got a vote y'et hut when Ido
I’ll vote for Mr. Wade if I git the job. Well, Tooraladi.
P.s. : Put in a notis to the readers to send round to The
Bulletin any ole boots. I will git them on me way home.
* * * *
A fight of Titans has begun. The gigantic
Standard Oil Trust has stripped for its battle with the
Shell Transport and Trading Co. The control of: the
world’s markets is the stake. The Shell Co. has de-
livered its first straight left by unloading an ocean of
cheap oil on the American continent, and is selling the
stuff at prices far below those hitherto prevailing.
The great octopus retaliates by' shipping vast con-
signments of its liquid to the East Indian Islands,
where the Shell Co. has big interests, and where
keen competition is least desired. In the end, after the
manner of professional pugs, they will probably' fall on
one another’s heaving buzzoms and whisper in one an-
other’s pink ears that, after all, they' had better cut up
the lamb between them. And then the lamb will be cut
up. Australia is part of the lamb—and will continue to
be until it gets its own oil industry going.
“D.8.T.”: I don’t like the Jap either; but
when I read things like this, from the report of John H.
Snodgrass, United States’ consul, I reckon he’s a better
patriot than some of our own people : “ It would appear,
both from statistics and by the assertion of dealers, that
the field for American gas and oil motors is not.au inviting
one, owing to the strong competition of Japanese manu-
facturers, and also on account 0/ the fealty displayed by the
averaye Japanese dealer on behalf of Japanese products."
It reminds one of the remark made by an American who
was brought to Australia a while ago to manage the
technical side of a new and important manufacturing
business. “ When we were getting ready to start,” fie
said, “ all I heard was : ‘ I don’t believe it can be done in
Australia.’ Now, in America and some other countries
that are going ahead, what I should have heard was :
‘ Now, I guess nobody else’ll be able to do it quite as well
as we are going to.’”
A shindylcit is now making inquiries with a
view to providing Melbourne with a fresh and frequent
supply of fish. The shind.vkit’s idea is to purphase a
trawler, and retail the spoil direct to the suburban con-
sumer. By this means, it is held that the middlemen
will be entirely eliminated, and a grateful democracy will
get cheap and plentiful fish meals. Certainly, it occurs
to Tiie Bulletin that the mere removal of the middlemen
is not a guarantee of cheap sea food, for some shindykits
have huge appetites for profits. Still, it threatens to im-
prove on the present state of things, so this paper pins
its blessing on to the scheme for a start. Later on, if
the syndicate behaves itself, the blessing can be fixed on
more securely with glue.
“The Hack”: The remarks of “Bromide”
(B. 20/10/’10) anent. the excuse of “ Can’t get ’em !” made
by Queensland’s colored-labor hotelkeepers when asked
why they don’t employ white servants, are just as ap-
plicable to sundry Victorian manufacturers who can’t get
sufficient labor for their factories. I know from personal
experience of a Melbourne sauce and pickle factory.
This factory was rushed with orders for the new season’s
goods—so rushed, in fact, that orders got ahead of the
factory'. They didn’t even have to advertise for assist-
ance. The rush of business got winded abroad, and girls
and women applied for work. Nine out of every' 10 of the
interviews ran as follows:
“ I judge you are over IS? ”
“Yes, sir; but I have hadlD years’ ’’(more or less, of
i course) “experience of the trade.” ,
“ Very sorry'; but, you know, the Factories Act com-
pels us to pay you 16s. a week directly you are 18, and
that takes all the gilt off the gingerbread. G’day !”
Every tenth applicant, on an average, was engaged.
She was under 18 ;so Pickles got her cheap. And while
the nine were being turned away, letters were going out
steadily to angry customers, apologising for the delay, in
forwarding their goods on the ground of scarcity of labor !
As “ Bromide ” says, “ The liars !”
* •* * *
“ Crass,” liis reprehensible scheme : When will
some statesman strike out boldly for State Cash Prize
Distributions and the abolition of Tatt.’s? The yearning
for a gamble is inherent in human nature. Even the
Wowser gambles, and revels in it. F’rinstance, the
Wusslean has the thrill of a new “charge” con-
tinually before him. He’is always on the shift, and the
uncertainty as to whether his next mission will do the
right thing by the plate keeps him sizzling with excite-
ment. To most of us, however, no such varying inci-
dents can ever come. Accordingly, we fair back on
Tatt.’s, poker, two-up and horse racing. I think every
adult person should be encouraged to (1) vote, (2) gamble ;
but in a strictly-limited State-controlled fashion. To
every eligible elector I would issue a combined
elector’s arid Cash Distribution Eight. The same printed
form would do for both. The electoral portion would
cover the recipient’s franchise right for, say, three years ;
and his C.D.B. right would entitle him to spend £3 in 12
National Cash Distributions. I would work it this way.
The State or Commonwealth official would, on presenta-
tion of an electoral and C.D.R. right, place a five-shilling
stamp on the right, and issue a number ticket. No
elector’s right would be suffered to contain more than four
ss. stamps for any one year—£l. This would represent one
chance in each of four Government Cash Distributions.
All electors’ rights would have to be up-to-date; no
C.D.R. stamps to be placed on any expired elector’s
right. The Cash Distribution Department could
be run cheaply and effectively in conjunction with
the electoral department. It would be optional
with the unco’ good whether they speculated
in the Government’s Cash Distribution or not. But
every elector (and only electors) would have the right to
do so. An old Tory grievance is that many thousands of
eligible electors fail to receive their votes, or be enrolled.
I guarantee that under a combined electoral and Govern-
ment Cash Distribution Right the number of voters on
the roll would swell amazingly, and incidentally the
Government—State or Commonwealth —that initiated
the idea would speedily be in a position to cease talking
of floating loans and the like.
“San Remo”: “Rod’s” remarks (B. 15/9/TO)
on bogus salvage sales recalls memories of Brisbane’s
flood of 1893, when the river came down in its wrath,
and over 300 houses and £lOO,OOO worth of bridging were
emptied into the Pacific. Brisbane went flood-sale mad,
and the Calico Jimmies that hadn’t the luck to be swamped
out lifted up their voices and cursed their misfortune.
Then they rushed around, bought up sopped goods, and
joined in the boom. When the supply gave out, they
turned on Enoggera, and had floods in their back yards.
From Brisbane the epidemic spread all over Queensland.
Flood goods travelled right up the coast to Thursday
Island, and out west to Boulia. On the day we opened
the doors for our sale I was the first of 16 employees who
were trampled to death; Five days later the insanitary
cargo was sold out, and still the public was unsatisfied.
We filled every available bucket, tub, tank, zinc-lined
case and coal-scuttle with mud, dbbris, pants, socks,
calico, overcoats,dresa-suits, straw-hats, ashes, blankets,
boots, evening-gowns, theatre-cloaks, feathers, stable-
straw, velveteen and anything else we could collect. We
stirred them up with poles, wrung them out, and traded
them faster than free passes to Heaven. The boss piled
up a fortune, and everybody else piled up rheumatics;
and although the boss lost what he got in the subse-
quent bank crash, I’ve still got my share.
* * * *
The latest tall tree-yarn comes from Atherton
(N.Q.), where a cocky farmer is reported to have refused
£250 for a cedar tree growing on his selection. Granting
the truth of the yarn, it would be interesting to learn
the price at which the State allowed the cocky to select
his holding.


The Incomparable
BEALE PIANOS
if
if
you looß upon your purchase of a Piano as an
investment of capital
you ag'ree with us that any piano buyer owes it
to himself to investigate personally the claims
of the instrument that he really believes to be
the best before actually investing'
you admit —as you will —that you thinK BEALE
PIANOS are among the best
we have the rig'ht to claim your attention
as an investor. Have you never ex-
perienced a feeling of curiosity to come and
see if you can, by investigation, discover
If
Then
v the Beale Piano Company sell so many Pianos year after year
* in the same families ?
v after making 14*800 Beale Pianos, we are always increasing our
~ sales of the highest grades ?
v from the world’s centre —Condon —we receive orders where
" * special tonal quality is desired ?
117 C v we have obtained the highest awards and voluntary testimonials
* from the world’s best judges ?
XL PPAfnPP come to our Showrooms or Works and see and hear
J. licrciurc for Yourself !
BEALE <O. CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 George Street, Sydney 3
Doors from
G.P.0.)
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G.P.O.
Only Address in Brisbane).
—our
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A,
837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Qoulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE.
Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories: Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years' Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers' Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers .


■MMMHI
I
i^pi*
m
m
a
ir
m
■
sj
IS
-
I
«
9
'
w
m
i
1
■
1
f •
m
. £..f
M—
mm
m
tJK
M
I
/,
REGULAR &
5£
:
m each
■
I
S. C 9 LIP
.C? LIMITED
S
m
N & C° PIT L TD
■HI
OFFICES
AGENTS
ALL
PORTS


Missing Friends.
MARK KEENAN.
11/TARIv KEENAN, formerly of Ardgaeneen, Druin-
i ' VJ - griffin County, Galway, Ireland, will bear of some-
thing to his advantage by communicating with Messrs.
HOSKING & COOK, Solicitors, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Any information sent to them enabling- proof to be made
that the said Mark Keenan is alive or dead, and if alive
which would lead to his discovery, will be appreciated
and recompensed.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manairer : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
The Musical Success of our Generation,
OU It MISS GIBBS.
Box Plan at Palirur’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
KATHERINE GREY,
Supported by WILLIAM DESMOND and a Brilliant
Company of Dramatic Artists, in Edward Sheldon’s
Inspiration of Undoubted Popularity,
SALVATION NELL.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
gT. JAMES’S HALL, SYDNEY,
MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 28,
CONCERT by
MAY SUMMERBELLH,
To Introduce New Composition,
Assisted by MADAM SLAPOFFSKI and Leading Artists.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
THE IMEW OLYMPIA THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Located Corner of Elizabeth St. & Wentworth Avenue.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
WILLIAM ANDERSON
Presents THE GREAT PICTORIAL REPRESENTATION
OF THE FAMOUS PLAY,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
The Film taken by Messrs. Johnson & Gibson.
Popular Prices—ls. 6d., Is. and 6d. Plan at Elvy’s.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICTURES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgtr. Dir. !T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
Gd. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
HE
EVERY
I.YCEUM
EYENING AT 8.
matinees -Wednesdays Saturdays and Holidays at 2 -50.
CPENCER'SIiTEATRUCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
o /IRE SUPERIOR TO /ILL OTHERS, -a
Popular Prices »t. Plats at P.ALiNoa,
0
o
m
t,
'
M
M
X
> - /
>v.V
/»!
1U ( A'/xU *v X i XX J -LvrluCrCi) ’
c
Acuann. *
x.l| x ' X
v3x' !_ xi J- 1L'l" l Ll (z:‘(X <
Calcutta, ISS3. /X^,A
_ KRUSE'S W 0
FLUID MAGNESIA
U ealyO»’.d«tff4i<M i 7‘-sli
Ctteuttt JattraatietW E*X
I.IOM, taocmwttttca r-.tt th: .vsrA.
JUjWiiscSaußierotttMlsitiswii CtrU-
__ - >» ttatTit aj * yrsrf rf
;J ra fntt *.s all otiers, tio
| *-»K»lt»ura«SxMiltlca,iSOß-7.Satiris'
a-"?ert iut« ttet auH'i *wa WMBwt»
■ ctat.'- ef SMirtota***
HPXXr-X'
X ’\X“
cs.cc er ‘.vice s £&
. t»ocr ■
K)iTl'cO,klcll«i:,t,
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manasrer —Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
LAST NIGHTS OF
BARNOLD’S WORLD-FAMED ANIMAL ACTORS.
LES MARBAS, Humorists and Acrobatic Dancers.
LARRY LEWIS. VIOLET STOCKELLE.
CARL HOWARD and LILY FOY, Comedy Artists.
THE DANCING GILBERTS. Premier Dance Duettists.
WOODS (Leslie) and FRASER (Hilda). Sketch Artists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE BLESSINGS, Strongest Lady Athlete and her
Partner.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
CAMILLE CORNWALL, Operatic Soprano Vocaliste.
VAUDE and VERNE, Patter Comedians.
THE QUEALYS, Musical Sketch Artists.
MDME. LYDIA-YEAMANS-TITUS, Mimic Impersonator
Vocaliste.
FREDERICK J. TITUS, Composer and Accompanist.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES— 35.. ‘is.. Is.
HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager—William Andkrson.
SATURDAY' NEXT, NOVEMBER 26,
First Appearance of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
THE WORST N WOMAN IN
LONDON.
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
|.|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
SATURDAY, NEXT, NOVEMBER 26,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents a Grand Revival
—OF—
HARBOR LIGHTS.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is.
MELBOURNE.
JHEATRE ROYAL,
A POPULAR REVIVAL.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THR ARCADIANS.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE CONTINENTAL
DANCER, CHISTIE MULNIAH.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 26,
For a Limited Number of Nights, a Brilliant Revival
THE DOLLAR PRINCESS.
Reappearance of MISS FLORRIE YOUNG.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’:
U/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THK BISSX
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL,'
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Pict ure Worthy of Note always to be Seen at
V WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
“ARCADIA,” SIT HILDA ESPLANADE.
** EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
TESTERS
' i - —
Reserved Seats, 1/6 (Booking- 6d. extra); Admission 1/-
and 6d. Children Half-Price. Plans and Day Sales at
Glen’s, Ronald’s Central, and Haber’s, St. Hilda. Seats
niav also be reserved bv ’phone, Windsor 105. COM-
PLETE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EVERY MONDAY.
HE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY.. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
QPEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. KILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE POLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6. 1/-. 6d.
IRTHS OLYMPIA.
. EVERY EVENING AT 8-
Matinees-Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CPENCERSIStATUKCOPE <?.
JPICTURES
o /I&E SUPE/Zrote TO /ILL OTHER'S.
Popular Prices Plats as Usual^J
sdfg
A KB ALLY REFRESHING DRINK
Ginger Swig
!j Made in a Minute. Ready to Drink at Once.
Strictly Temperance. Thirty Good Drinks for
NINE PENCE, or 100 Drinks for 2s. 6d., post
free to any address. Excellent for Children and
Grown-ups. Good, wholesome and decidedly
*• more-ish.” Have it Cold in Summer and Hot in
v inter ; it is splendid both ways. Try it and you
will be delighted.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Rompers
FOR BOYS
AND GIRLS
1Kft\
M
■rui
SINGLE GARMENT PLAYING SUITS
Just the Thing for the Holidays. Body and
Knickers in One Piece. No other 0 othes needed
in summer. Cheap. Easily Washed, Healthful
and Comfortable, Neat and Tidy, Slipped on
or off in a moment, Only Three Buttons to
fasten, Fit Children from Two to Seyen Years.
Made of good quality Zephyr, hlbely pined
and bound. 2s. 6d. Each. Two Suits for 4s. 6d.
Delivered Free anrwhere. Mention aces when
ordering. THE UNION MANUFACTURING
COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THE WONDERFUL RUBBER
COMPL/EXION BEAUTY CUP
FOR MASSAGING THE FACE, NBCK, &c.
Removes Pimples, R,edness, Roughness,
Blaekheads, and all Skin Blemishes,
Wrinkles and Hollows. The only way for
a lady to massage. herse f. Cleanses the
pores and makes the skin soft and velvety
and imparts the bloom of health. Price,
HALF-A-CROWN. with full directions and <
sdf
a Larae Tube of Almond Blossom Beauty Cream the Idea.
Skin Food. THE UNION MANUFACTURING <fe AGENCY
CO . 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The MAGIC CORN RUBBER
Instant Relief. Easy to Use. No Danger
R -moves the Corn in less than a minute without pain or risk.
A simple, scientific and antiseptic instrument that will last for
years. Try one and tell your tr ends. Price O.N h SHlLlil2<u
posted to any address. Hundreds of Testimonials.
THE UNION GO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Two notable samples of purely local senti-
ment appeared in last Monday’s paper, tine was
the work of a Victorian district councillor, or
alderman or Bumble or Dogberry or Bumbleberry,
who addressed sundry Parliamentarians on the
advantages of Westernport as a naval base, oaid
the eminent local authority :
We hope that when the report of Admiral Sir Reginald
Henderson is sent in, you will not take any notice of it if
it is not in favor of us.
The other item happened at Sydney :
In responding to the toast of the “ State Parliament,
Mr. Storey said the State Government had a good many
important things to do, and one of these things would he
to hand over Fiizrov Dock to the Federal Government.
Some people might differ from him in this view, but he
considered it necessary in order that New South Wales
MIGHT RECEIVE THE 11EXEF1T OF THE NAVAL CONSTRUCTION
WORK IN CONNECTION WITH THE AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Attorney-General Holman has been adding
up his predecessor’s great services to N. S. V ales.
In trying to save the State from having to pay
certain pensions to aged and infirm civil ser-
vants, he paid out £l7OO. mostly fees to counsel.
In litigation with the Commonwealth he spent
£3612, also mostly in fees to counsel. And his
Department lost every case against the Com-
monwealth, and the poor, old, hard-up pen-
sioners all beat him, except Greville. That was
a case in which the Department scored the odd
trick, though certainly the High Court’s Chief
Justice did say, after going into the matter,
that he didn't think as much of the State as he
might.
Melb. Age and Argus reports of the
latest fatal accident on the Vic. Railways offer a
choice of explanations :
The Age : “ The train consisted of its DD engine, a
van and eight empty trucks. Trouble was experienced
with the VVestinghouse brake, and at Heathcote the
driver decided to cut off the steam brake and rely
entirely' on the hand-brakes. The escape of air
kept the brakes continually pressing on the
wheels, thus delaying the train, so Ryan cut his
Westinghouse brake connections.... With the en-
gine like a wise, live thing speeding confidently'
through the quiet, deserted country', what could come
amiss? It was Ryan’s favorite engine. He asked for it
invariably at the yards. He was known to stroke affec-
tionately its si ek brown sides. RD674—a 90-ton monster
not 18 months old, so mechanically' perfect that it re-
sponded to every touch of the driver’s control! On its
footplate Ryan felt as safe as in a quiet Seymour
street.”...
The Argus : “The goods train of which James Ryan
was in charge went up to Bendigo from Seymour in the
morning with a load of rails. It was drawn by engine
DD674 —a ‘rogue’ engine, which has bolted more than
once before. ‘ Don’t go on that engine, Jim,’ said another
driver in the morning ; ‘ she’s not safe.’ But Ryan, who
joined the service 21 years ago, banished the fears of the
other engine-man from his mind, and took the engine
out.”
Now, was DDG74 a notorious “ rogue” engine, or
did the Argus reporter dream that it was unfit to
be in use ?
“ 10-2-4 ” in a general way:—
What a sea of snuffle, self-advertisement and intrigue
surges round a Gaud May'or when the hour for his
extinction draws nigfi !
Then ate the newspapers impelled mysteriously' to
mention that citizens of all ranks, actuated by uncon-
trollable veneration for Gaud Mayor Snifkins, have
rushed together arid decided to testimonialise him.
Snifkins is informed of the scheme by a newspaper re-
porter. He receives the news with surprise. He
is unworthy of the distinction, he say's, with profound
humility ; he has but done his duty. Nevertheless his
heart swells with gratitude towards the generous public-
spirited folks who, in thus honoring him, have honored
themselves, the Flag, the Empire, and so forth.
Later, it is intimated that Snifkins has deliberately
foregone the silver-plated tea-set which it was proposed
to buy him, and has asked that the cash shall be invested
in a public drinking trough. The papers applaud Snif-
kins for his graceful, patriotic decision, and deplore that
such a man is to be lost to the city. During the days
that follow, newspaper references to the indispensability
of Snifkins are numerous and insistent. The men who
had hoped to be Snifkins’s successor become gloomy and
apprehensive.
A daily paper comes out with a leader forecasting
disaster if Snifkins is not induced to go on governing the
city. The article finishes with a passionate appeal to
Snifkins to set aside his personal comfort and stand by
the municipal craft. The Gaud Mayors presumptive,
reading these remarks athwart their breakfast food, rise
in disorder, kick the inoffensive house-dog, and go to
their toil simmering with rage.
And notv events move rapidly. The citizens once more
rush together, and decide unanimously to implore Snifkins
to allow himself to be nominated for another term. And
Snifkins says he will. And far away in the recesses of his
suburban home an alderman who, under happier auspices,
might have got Snif’s job, seethes with baffled ambition,
and mutters harsh things. But Snif, with the beacon of
knighthood gleaming ahead, pursues his way rejoicing.
Over 20 years ago a man named William
Breazenell, then of Mittagong (N.S.W.). wan-
dered into The Bulletin Office with samples of
cold-blast iron made by himself from surface ore
found at Mittagong. The samples were after-
wards sent to an exhibition in England and were
awarded a gold medal, for which he still holds the
certificate. It cost him, roughly, £5OO to put up
the plant to make that iron, and he never got a
cent in return. To-day he is living at Picton
(N.S.W.), and finds the world a cold place. The
£5OO he spent on that plant would do a lot for
him jjist now when he needs it most. It seems
hard that something cannot be done for the old
man, who in the past spent good cash to try to
give an Australian iron industry a boost.
Concerning a drunken old ruffian :
When old-man Neptune gets drunk he is the most vio-
lent and stubborn old drunk in the world. Despite his
o-rey hairs, he still rages about like a criminal maniac
with a million whale-power muscle, tearing up the pre-
mises and whirling the splinters round the compass just
as he did ’way back when he first got his job and banged
the seven seas into the corners of the universe. Recently
he came home drunk, and started throwing his property
about in the vicinity of Newcastle (N.S.VV.) soon after
the steamer Strathclyde had left for Chili with 6000 tons
of coal. As soon as the old man saw her he flew into a
passion, and pursued her with blue hail and sleet.
All the way to Cook Strait (M.L.) he behaved
like the Devil when he came home and found
Hell in the possession of the bailiffs. The captain
of the ship cursed at him and poured oil on his (the
drunk’s) whiskers by turns from the bows, but Nep
rushed round to the stern and pulled the rudder out by
the roots and bit off two lifeboats. By this time the
ship was uncontrollable, and a great coil of rope was
thrown overboard on a towline to steady her. Then the
old, disreputable drunk fell down, and slept for a few
hours, until a grampus stood on his ear, when he sprang
up with a yell of rage and heaved the ocean at the Strath-
clyde. The hatch covers were ripped off, and the men
working below to rig a jury-rudder were nearly drowned.
All the time the ship was moving south ; and, although
there was no call for the dipsomaniac to go in that
direction, he roared after her like a herd of mad
elephants. A jib and staysail were rigged, and were
immediately snatched from the ringbolts and blown
over the ' pole; the jury-rudder was fixed, and
the old tnan tied his whiskers round it and wrenched it
off ; a second rudder lasted four days, and was then
smashed to matchwood; rails were twisted till they
looked like corkscrews; ironwork was wrecked ; steam-
pipe covers were peeled off and thrown at the shivering
stars ; and a big kedge anchor was dragged round the
deck and bounced on a Chinaman’s head. There was a
crew of 24 Chows, and during the whole furious exhibi-
tion those amongst them who were firemen had to crawl
into any corner of the engine-room and sleep—the huge
seas breaking over the vessel preventing any communica-
tion w'ich the forecastle. Altogether this jag of Nep-
tune’s lasted 37 days, at iiig end of which time the
steamer brauded into Lyttelton (M.L.) looking like a
tramp who had been harried by 17 bulldogs.
The Benevolent Society of N. S. Wales
publishes Yule Tide as “a Christmas plea for
the poor.” Here is an opportunity awaiting
private purses—an opportunity that might be
side-tracked in a worse cause. Last year not less
than 5000 women, 7000 children and an unspeci-
fied number of sick and workless men came under
the society’s ministrations. The secretary guar-
antees to immediately acknowledge cheques from
the Union Club, Chamber of Commerce, Pastor-
alists’ Association, Liberal League, and all those
others who lately told how prosperous they had
been under the regime of the past few years.
England is taking all sorts of precautions
these days. Last week two cablegrams rushed
together across the'world and were printed side
by side. No. 1 stated breathlessly that the
Admiralty had called on private - builders to
tender for the construction of an armored
cruiser which should have the largest gun-
power and the greatest speed of any cruiser
yet designed. No. 2 in reverent haste
brought the glad tidings that, in a statement to
Convocation, the Archbishop of Canterbury had
indicated that the revision of the Prayer Book
would be steadily pressed on. Bull’s lines of
defence used to be arranged thus : (1) Navy, (2)
Army. Plainly the order now is : (1) Navy, (2)
Prayer Book. The Army —the “thin red line”
of yore —is not placed.
“J. 8.”: A cabled message from Berlin
was printed in Australia last week that a German
sergeant had been sentenced to six weeks’ impri-
sonment for cruelty to j'oung soldiers, and it was
headlined in various ways, such as “Cruelty in
German Army,” “Results of Conscription,’
“Brutal Militarism,” “What Compulsory Service
Means,” and so on. Coincident with the cabled
message arrived the postal mail from Britain, and
one of the most interesting items of newspaper
information was the following:—
A regrettable incident occurred at Winterbourne Stoke
(Wilts.) during the recent manoeuvres. A Territorial
officer ordered a publican to close his house. Since there
was no drunkenhess on his premises, he refused to obey.
The officer thereupon put a thong round the man’s neck,
and dragged him along the street. He subsequently
• entered the house and dealt a civilian motor-car driver a
severe blow on the head, which rendered him unconscious.
Outside the house, he cut the tyres of several bicycles.
A local news agent, whose bicycle was among those dam-
aged, interposed, whereupon the officer struck him a
blow with his whip, which rendered him unconscious.
Mr. Barber (a member of the Salisbury Town Council)
states that a sentry refused to admit him to the inn, as he
was not a villager.' He protested. The officer thereupon
ordered a corporal and two privates to arrest him and
give him into the custody of the civil police on a charge
of interfering with military law. He was driven in a cart
to Salisbury, and subsequently released.
The Australian papers didn’t put the cable about
that affair under the heading: “ Frightful Conse-
quences of Voluntary Service.” In fact, there
wasn’t any cable about it at all, so far as I can
discover.
The alleged scarcity of “ labor,” especially
female labor, in Melbourne, has started a sort of
decentralisation movement. A big “Lane’’cloth-
ing factory has decided to take the work to the
workers, instead of compelling the workers to
come to the work, by setting up branch factories
in residential suburbs —Hawthorn for a start.
And there is no reason why many other trades
shouldn’t follow suit, as a power-driven factory is
no sort of a nuisance. The scheme means a saving
of train fares and from a half-hour to an hour per
day to each employee ; so the firm is likely to get
its clothes stitched while other people’s garments
remain in the raw state, so to speak.


Shipping:.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD 'TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany’s Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St
Mki.ho'Uinr Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON <fc CO.,
11l William : Btreet.
Adhxaidk & Frkmanti.k Agknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO.. „
OTWAY „
ORSOVA .. „
ORONTES .. „
OMR AH
OPHIR
12,130 Regd. Tons.
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 ~ ~
8,282 „
6,814 „
fraphy. New and luxurious
Fitted with Wireless Tele;
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-'u te ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Room-, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lilts and Laundries.
Sailing- every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
™ e Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: r. r. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Baui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixer! period*, and
transacts all other usual Rankins' bn«i
THE
Australian Sank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAP OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LON* ON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTORS —Philip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Mylf.s, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt.; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Docker, Esq. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C unmonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns oJ the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock .. 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors : JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, E<q.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. =====s=s
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. I). Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hot. C. .1. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A- ROSS MILT,EIi, Resident Secretary.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord D
eutscher
FARES' TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £OO 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1.. 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30125.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving: in London in grood time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
EXECUTORS
'THE TRUSTEES,
AND
AGENCY COMPANK LIMITED,
412 Collins-et., Melbourne.
CAPITAL, PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortß-ajres) .. .. £37.500 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman •
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LU.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A, LANG, Assistant Manager.
Shipping:.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, anti
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. _ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
gs
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December 21.
RUNIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
January 18.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FAKES —Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 Co 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Onlv on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d.; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
dfg
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Dec. 16, Jan. 27 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Dec. 2, Jan. 13 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.— INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to ,£25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. j. h. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
4m
WALES.
£2,726,880
£1,806,720
£2,726,880
DIRECTORS
£7,260,480
The Hon. O. K. MaeKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnoklarid, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edsrecliff Laidley, Esq. ; Alfrpd Georjre Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office— 64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 317 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 46, South Australia 5, West Australia 10, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Ajrent.s and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS,
The Largest Store in Aus-
tralasia. Established 1860.
TOST & ROHU,
Taxidermists, Furriers,
Tanners and Island
Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE ST.,
Opp. C.P.0., SYDNEY
Central 2196.
And 605 GEORCE ST.,
SYDNEY. City 2374.
I
CURIOS, SHELLS 8 OPALS.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing' thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Pood Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchases Packed Free and Labelled.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
Public Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury,
Melbourne, 30th September, 1910.
COUNTERFEIT COINAGE PLANT.
£2OO Reward.
\I7HEREAS certain imitations of gold coins have
** recently been passed into circulation at Broken
Hill, in the State of New South Wales, NOTICE is hereby
given that a Reward of Two hundred pounds will be paid
by the Government of the Commonwealth for information
leading to the apprehension of the coiners and the dis-
covery of the plant used in the manufacture of the coins
referred to. The Commonwealth Government will request
the State Government to extend a full pardon to any
accomplice who will give the desired information. This
offer will remain open for three months from this date.
(Sgd.) ANDREW FISHER, Treasurer.
Business Announcements.
Millars’ Karri § Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world,
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quasnsiand Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Dec. 10
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing with Roombana,
leaving- Fremantle Dec.
29 for North-West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACIIAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yonfrala, Nov. 26.
S.S. Innamincka, Dec. 8.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on 11
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
t Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* T.onnr]»<> nn \ 1
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-screec, Sydney.
F.— H.
5.
Federal«Houlder«Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ DORSET,*'
11.JQ0 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 13th Dec.
» .. „ SYDNEY 20th Dec.
.. >. „ MELBOURNE „ 27th Dec.
» »> it ADELAIDE ~ 3rd Jan.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and I
Liverpool., f 10s - £i3i3s. £15153. £i7i7s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated hooks, pamnhlets. etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdne.v and Brisbane :
11. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne’
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
THE OCEAN
Banking, Public Companies. See.
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident nnJ
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prnsvectvx. 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
rilHE BEST STORIES written in Anstra,ia
_JL appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.


Business Announcements.
\
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Famous Sch« bier Carburetor
The best Vaporising: Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving 1 , if you want to tret more HORSE-
POWER from vour Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
FROM
SOUTH AFRICA .
/A-
-&
imw t
w
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with WhiteJ
Length, 9 inches.
5/ The Bunch,
/ “ Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiie Bulletin.] [3
Publications.
Antiquarian Gazette,
CONDUCTED BY
ISIDORE KOZMINSKY, F.R.H.S., F.R.N.S.,
Assoc. Brit-. Soc. of Archaeologists, Lond., etc.
Second Quarterly Number of the new series
contains articles on :
The Newly Discovered Jewish Docu-
ments in Egypt, by Professor A. H.
Sayce, D.D., LL.D. ,D.C.L.
Romance of Heraldry and Note on the
Career of Flora Macdonald, by Sir
Edward Mackenzie Mackenzie, Bart.
Copper Tokens of New South Wales, by
Dr. Arthur Andrews.
Profligacy in the time of Charles 11.,
by Rev. G. F. South.
Phuzpa Devil Dagger of Tibet, by Mrs.
A. Mclntyre.
ETC., ETC.
r v -vGr Office-Block Place, off Little
DS. I Carly. Collins Street, Melbourne.
u
1911. NOW READY I 1911.
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY.
The Australian Annual.
Australian life as a whole attractively described and
LAVISHLY PICTURED.
“THE WOOD SAWYERS,” by F. McCubbin (specially
purchased for 100 guineas)—
Superb Full-pace Colored Supplement.
Place your orders NOW, or you may be disappointed.
PRICE - 1s. 6d.
Postage:—Commonwealth, New Zealand, etc., l*d. ;
United Kingdom (All-Sea Route), 2d. ; elsewhere
abroad (All-Sea Route). 7d.
The Ideal Australian Annual for posting abroad.
Obtainable from all News Agents.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia —GORDON & GOTCII.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Girls’ own
Newspaper, invites the submission of STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS ami ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. ‘‘FARMER AND
SETTLER” OFFICE, 435 Kent Street, Sydney.
“The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stank of
joy and laughter about the famous family.
AN Australian’s Two r H«.nds —THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
A PLUM Never Drag^s
It’s just the finest shaving razor any man could wish to use. Keen silver steel °f I;* I ,®
finest temper. Keeps its edge splendidly and needs little stropping. We use “ PLUMS*
in our own saloon, and guarantee to keep yours in order for two years free of charge.
►al isS
The
“Plum,'
10j6
Post Free
Anywhere.
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair In Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
maim smmm\
—and isn’t it a treat ?
Whether one writes much or little, it’s a delight to enjoy the ease of a
pen that suits. The
Ball-Pointed Pens
Glide smoothly—Don’t spurt or stick—Write in any position.
Ask for a 6d. Sample Box of “BALL-POINTED” Pens, pick the one that suits
you best, and then get a supply. This will ensure you real luxury in writing, [i
TWO
pc oiuy7
TYRE /
5U11.T or\\
/ciLmmcV
PRINCIPLE/
TttE
/ILVERTOWh
RUBBER (?
m GEORGE r
/YDf\EY
sdf
POLKEY MOTOR LAMPS
ALL BRITISH.
ACETYLENE and ELECTRIC-
Supplied from stock. Write for Catalogue
SCHEELE 8 GIBBES, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney. T ?i t “*
The Bulletin Christmas Number
Contains the Best Stories, Verse and Sketches. Price
SUPERBLY ILLUSTRATED Ready DECEMBER 15. &
M
I
Don’t Have Grey Hairs
They make you look older than you really are —
and they accentuate the wrinkles and crow’s feet
in the face. : ;
A. McGee’s Celebrated HAIR STAIN
is easy to apply, and gives the hair a natural Brown or Black color.
It won’t wash off-—is perfectly harmless and undetectable. One
application lasts about seven to nine weeks.
4/6 and 8/6 a bottle. Posted, N.S.W., 9d. extra ; Inter-State, 1/2.
McGEE’S MOUSTACHE DYE
is a preparation meeting with a
ready sale. It is the best on the
market.. Never fails to give absolute
satisfaction. Price 3/- N.S.W., post free; Inter-State, 3/2.
gsdf
ANDREW McGEE
Gentlemen’s
Hairdresser,
5 and 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
Meltonian
PASTE.
BLACK and BROWN
Th,e best and also the cheapest
PASTE POLISH on the market
for cleaning, polishing, and
pi esorving all kinds of Leather
Boots, Shoes, Harness, &c.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
HCrKMVOiVUI
MCAHQ KIIM JUU.WW>O*nwiC XUW
■ 9N!HSnoJf
9uiu<3i3 ,
%
BECALM
GLACE KlDdt]
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN *• BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON ( B,aCk^f n “?actu orersPOnSh) 0 rers POnSh) LTI) - LONDON 3lid PARIS ‘
A Book of Scientific Toys Free
We’ve just got out our Catalogue of
Christmas Toys, and want to send
YOU a copy.
It tells all about our toys.
In Working Models.
Trams. Motor Boats.
Steam Boats. Motor Cars.
Magic Lanterns for the Home,
Home Cinematographs.
Electrical Trams and Trains
Parts for Building Engines.
And a host of other things.
WRITE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS HERE.
Cut it out and send to us , and we
will post you a copy of it at once.
Name
Address
<s>
Educational Toys
of Science and
Amusement.
JERDAN’S,
(Formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS,
393 George Street,
(Facing Royal Hotel), v
■
\
1
LIGHTING
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “PE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest IHuminant,
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Viotoria, Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable fktr Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is* one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
obtainable from McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney
gs
dfg
sdf
UNDER VICE-REGAL
gsd
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE lIP.
Country orders reoeive prompt attention. \ - ~


HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
and royal hotel ,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.TKS
fg
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
AUSTRALASIAN EMPORIUM FOR MEN’S WEAR.
Wonderful “PRIMAS FLASK.”
Pint Size, 10/0. Larger Size, 10/0.
A vast improvement on any other Flask at present on the market at a far less
cost. Will keep liquids HOT for 24 hours, and ICY COLD for many days;
In case of breakage, Refills can be obtained from us for 5/- and 6/6 respectively."
Write for our large Illustrated Catalogue. ' ’
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA & LONDON.
sdfg
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
sdf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
)
IN
BANANA LAND
In the House of Antiquities, the other
day, on the Bible in Slate Schools Bill, the gag
was used for the first time, it is said, in the
Chamber’s history.
“ Bromide ” from the North
Queensland also suffers from the evil of closed ports,
lhe trouble here is that they elect petty-minued publi-
cans, greengrocers and drapers on their Harbor Boards,
and these men, instead of trying to send the trade of the
nack country through the natural exit, insist on drag-
ging it past their own doors so they can get a “cut ” out
of it. It doesn’t matter how inconveniently situated their
place may be, nor how much it costs to. drag the trade
past it. They can’t see that if they must have a “cut ’’
out of the trade, it would be better for all concerned to
let it follow its natural route and shift themselves to it.
itnormous sums are in consequence being spent in trying
to make ports out of impossible places, while fine natural
ones, not very far away, are neglected and left lvin<>- idle
Port Curtis is one of the best harbors in the world It
should be the port for Central Queensland, which in-
cludes Mount Morgan. It isn’t. The trouble is that in
the early days the cattlemen crossed the Pitzrov at a
convenient place above where fresh and salt water meet
and, of course, a pub was built at the crossing. As the
cattle trade grew, a store, a smithy and a few residences
were built ; then more pub, more store, etc., and when
the collection was big enough to need a name they called
it Rockhampton. The township is 50 miles up the river,
which is shallow and winding, and enormous money has
been wasted in dredging to try and make it a shipping
port. The big coastal and oversea boats have to anchor
in Keppel Bay, five hours’ run from the town, and every-
thing has to be transhipped in lighters. Of course, this
means heavy freight and lighterage charges ; but the
shopkeepers who form the Rockhampton Harbor Board
don’t let that worry them. What they want is the trade
of Central Queensland to run past their doors, and han«-
the expense. According to press reports, Parliament is
now putting through a Bill authorising this Board to
borrow another £300,000 to waste in so-called improve-
ments.
Mount Morgan has evidently got tired of the heavy
lighterage charges, so it ordered Wullie Kidston to find a
deep-water port. He has therefore started to build a line
over miles of mangrove mud to Port Alma. The line isn’t
open yet, but its own weight is causing it to sink, and
how far underground it will get when traffic starts it is
hard to say. And only 60 miles away is the fine harbor
of Port Curtis.
Bowen has a good harbor, which could easily be made
better. A glance at the map will show' that it is only
a few miles further from Charters Towers, Ravensw ood,
and Ayr to Bowen than it is to Townsville ; but, because
of vested interests in the latter place, the trade of north-
western Queensland is all dragged in and out of the
expensive artificial harbor at Townsville instead of the
cheaper natural one at Bowen.
Maekay is another sample. Here, certainly, there is
no alternative port; but it seems quite possible to
greatly improve matters by cutting another outlet for
the shallow river Pioneer, on which the town is built.
The shop-keeping Harbor Trust will have none of that,
though, and wants instead a jettv at Flat Top Island,
though at the present rate of silting, Flat Top threatens
not to be an island at all in the course of a few years.
John Millett, who has pegged out his last
claim at Charters Towers, had been closely asso-
ciated with many of the mines on the field for the
past 20 years. His first big dive was into the
Mills’ United ; later on, he was on the boards Of
half a dozen or more of the best things going, and
there were few men who knew more about cyanide
. than he.
Brisbane Courier dev.otes a special bi-
weekly supplement to the effusions of its dear
old Tory readers. Recently this supplement con-
tained a series of agonised letters entitled “ The
Fisher Land Tax,” and then a quaint epistle
headed in large type, “Is there a God?” Evi-
dently the Fisher Government's “ confiscatory-
policy ” has driven the once-pious old lady into
stark atheism.
Queensland’s Minister for Works recently
avowed a preference for the contract system over
day-labor. A fine example of the respective
advantages of the rival systems is given by the
records of the Victoria Bridge Board (Brisbane).
In 1902 that fine structure was cleaned and
Dainted by contract—cost, £3278. In 1910 the
bridge was cleaned and painted by day-labor—
cost, £1096. No wonder day-labor is a thing
accursed in the eyes of some people—mostly
people with a thirst for pickings.
A STUDENT OF SEX.
YOUNG HENRY: “I admit she’s a fine woman now, but you never can tell how that sort'll wear
Dr. Row, of Runwich, professes to be
“curing” certain of the lazarette inmates with a
newly-imported But the Queensland
Health authorities have h v ad the highest hopes of
the Leprolin treatment, ofyOhaulmoogra oil, and
of the Nastin remedy, all of which have been tried
in turn during the last sjx years, with hopeless
failure in each case. Hence the shadow of doubt
on these last sanguine expectations.
The disappearing coach comes into its own
again when it rains hard in western Bananaland,
and the motor goes to its garage, if it hasn’t been
bogged out on the black soil. The car which
whizzes between Aramac and Bargaldine lately got
bogged near Bluebush Swamp (every Westerner
knows where that is); and the passengers footed
it back to somewhere, while \(r. Frog took the
family out to see the strange; epw that had got
stuck in their waterhole. V
“ Itan ” : Piccaninny Scrub "and Mount
Windsor plateau, overlooking Cook town, in the
Far North, and occasionally climbing 5000 ft.
towards the place whereof Peter holds the keys,
is another coastal hinterland with great possi-
bilities. There are mineral shows ; but it is the
farming resources that will some day win the
place a big, healthy, prosperous population. The
soil is not only rich, but the altitude renders it
suitable for the production of Cold Country-
fruits. The apple and pear grower will have the
chance of his life here when the means of com-
munication are good enough; for he will bo able to
put his fruit on the market months ahead of
southern growers. So with vegetables; he will
be able to beat even Bowen in catching the early
worm. There will be transport troubles to be
climbed over, no doubt; for the uplands, which
give birth to the Normanby and Palmer Rivers,
rise 3000 ft. in eight miles, following the track,
and fall the same distance in five miles of the
track down to Maytown. But you can’t get alti-
tude anywhere without climbing for it. The best
of this patch is only 48 miles from Mount Molloy
railway terminus, so even now it isn’t as remote
as it sounds.
Barcaldine news:—
At the police court, on Friday, an old-age pensioner
named Thomas Golding-, was charged with having used
ohscene language and resisted the police.
Further proof of how the North takes it out of a
man and leaves him limp in middle age.
Australia was over-fed on the dog that was
led in the late Edward’s funeral procession ; now
Queensland is getting great joy from the dis-
covery that the horse which the Royal George
rode on the same occasion is a Bananalander,
from Grosvenor Downs. The honored moke was
sold originally as a re-mount for India.
“Kobbi ” : Mostly the farmer is opposed
to the Labor party, and knows that no good can
come out of Socialism anyhow. Yet when he
wants anything, watch him.. Some would-be
cane-growers about Rockhampton wanted to make
a start. So they leagued themselves under some
extensive title and subscribed half a crown each,
and sent round the plate, and thus got the neces-
sary cane to plant. After a few pieces had been
put in, in a few selected places, a deputation
trained down to ask the Government to build a
Socialistic mill costing £50,000. The Government
ha’d, and spoke Scotch, and rubbed its whiskers
and said “No,” or words to that effect. Then
the deputation went home and wrote angry letters
to the newspaper. Good old P. Enterprise 1
The redent all-night sitting in the Queens-
land Legislative Council during the debate on the
Bible in State Schools Bill, was the first thing of
the sort the ancients have had. Only three times
in the last quarter of a century had they sat till
after midnight, and on two of those occasions
they were waiting for the Assembly to a Bill
and send it to them. The other time—in No-
vember, 1886—they discussed the construction of
the Fortitude Valley-Mayne railway line till 2
o’clock in the morning.
From the Condamine :
It is reported here that the manager of the' biggest
station on the Moonie River intends to bring down 100
Chinamen to deal with the prickly pear. A meeting of
the local Progress Ass. was held to consider thfe report,
and as anything that might settle, the pear question
receives a hearty welcome at Condamine, it was almost
unanimously decided to extend a welcome to our yellow
brothers. The only dissentient to the motion was firmly
passed out. lie proposed then that if they did the thing-
at ail they should do it properly. An arch should be
erected on the bridge adjacent to the township. The
arch to be composed of prickly-pear leaves, festooned
with pumpkin vines (pumpkins themselves are “ off”); a
goat, typical of the village, with head bent submissively,
and holding thereon a brimming bowl of rice, to be
fastened somehow in the foreground ; underneath
should appear the motto:
WELCOME OUR SAVIOURS.
This matter is still under consideration. I don’t know’ if
the experiment has been tried elsewhere ; but I’m pre-
pared to bet two fried fish that the first round between a
solid bunch of Condamine pear and Asia will be in favor
of the pear.
Fattening Country
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
English parsons who had come out had found Queens-
land the best fattening country in the world, not only
for cattle but for clergy. He was one of them himself,
and was prepared to say that they got ori just as well as
other imported things—the prickly pear, and the spar-
rows and the rabbits. —Archbishop of Brisbane.
HE clergy come (Oh, sound the drum,
And let the vulgar crowd be dumb !) —
They come, so says the Bishop bold
To batten ;
And he himself doth testify,
And no one can his facts deny,
That in this land they do expand
And fatten !
They may be clad in garments mean,
They may be meagre, gaunt and lean.
But when they feast on Queensland fare,
Instanter
They swell like Pharaoh’s ancient kine,
And shine with gen’rous oil and wine,
And fill the air with humor rare
And banter.
“ Myself am one,” the Bishop said,
“ Upon whose rev’rend priestly head
The dews of this dear land have shed
A Blessing;
And ne’er a pang of shame I feel
When I this happy fact reveal
And walk a-down this noble town
Confessing.'
“ We flourish under fig and vine
Just like the pear with prickly spine,
Like rabbit gay or perky, frisk-
Y sparrow;
And so we show a lightsome mien,
A front robust, a palate keen,
The while we pray to keep the Way
That’s narrow.
“No Stinking Fish ’tis ours to cry ;
We smite our Satan hip and thigh ;
We do our due, but don’t decry
Our plateful;
And when we show a fuller girth
’Tis just because this patch of earth
Is good and sweet to churchly flesh,
And grateful ! ”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 19, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Monday will see Queensland’s Chief Justice
Cooper en route to England, whither he hikes on
urgent private business, which will detain him in
the fogs for only six weeks. Coronation or no
Coronation. Recently the C.J. secured that
lovely old home, Kinellan, New Farm, and
during his absence Miss Cooper will pack up the
kitchen table and the beautiful sevres china, and
vacate Hawstead. I understand that Judge
Chubb and family will in turn transport them-
selves and chattels to Hawstead.
In view of the suggested appointment of a
Deputy Federal Land Tax Commissioner for
Queensland, three names are going the rounds.
Gall, the lately-appointed Assistant Under-Seere-
tary in the Home Department, is leading for the
rumored prize, with well-known Jack Brenan
second.
The Scarlet aide at Government House gave one
of his “little and happy” tennis parties this
week, and the competition for invitations was like
to the blataney of the ringas the favorite goes out
for the big money. Talking of aides reminds me
that our Vision seems to be having a cheerful time
under the various vice-regal wings south. Mean-
while tlie Macgregor is hastening with all his
might the opening of the University, which, if the
Senate can grasp the right brand of professor,
ought to open for trade with the first term in
1911.
Kidston’s latest scheme to dish the Common-
wealth Government, and capture votes at the
same time, is a brand-new railway scheme. Any-
how, some of it is brand-new ; the rest of it is bor-
rowed from the very dead MTI wraith. The scheme
entails the running of the present coast lines into
the West from Charleville to Tobermory, from
Blackall (in the Central District) to Windorah,
and from Winton to Spring Vale; and, in the
Far North, from Cloncurry to Urandangie. The
line which Phidston hopes to make a section of
the transcontinental will .run from Tobermory to
Camooweal, and on, he hopes, to Port Darwin.
Then Rockhampton. and Mackay, Townsville and
Bowen, and Townsville and Cairns are to be
linked up. In these proposals the voice is the
voice of, Kidston, but the hand is the hand of
Pliilp. The pretext is that the back-country lines
will practically do away with the possibility of
another drought-loss, such as we had a while back,
while the coastal railways will mean the opening
of more farming lands. Phidston will borrow for
it all, of course—and it will take some very
vigorous borrowing, indeed.
Mrs. George Perry bade many fine ladies to her
beautiful bungalow lafet Friday to pursue the wily
demon, Bridge. The lady host has come home
with a new stock of smiles, and clothes that
shatter the thou-shalt-not-covet commandment
every time she hobbles by.
The sad death of Mrs. Rosetta Cohen at Potts
Point, Sydney, last week, has thrown quite a
lot of Queensland families into mourning. The
two Hertzbergs, Mrs. Millingen (who was a
daughter), as well as the Cohen brothers, are in
Brisbane ; also there is the Cohen of Toowoomba.
.Last Friday afternoon the annual sports of Mr.
Knox Carson’s Bowen House School brought out
droves of little boys ranging between eight and
13 years. With a patriotism Which does him
credit, Mr. Carson has formed a naval cadet corps,
which is the pride of the town. Under the in-
structorship of Gunner Mudford, the lads gave a
display of surprise attacks that would be a lesson
to any Australian school, and already the 'effect of
the drill is showing in the straight backs and
well-carried . heads. There were about 400 ma’s
and pa’s to cheer on their particular infants, and
to capture the cup and sandwich passing to and
fro through the afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. Coogie Walsh have been tea-ing
their friends upon the lawn of the Queensland
Club this week, the reason for the extra brew
being the visit of male relatives from the Cold
Land.
Winton sends along a wail. The town reeks
with typhoid, the worst visitation in the memory
of man of doctor, and the cause thereof seems to
be the happy-go-lucky methods of the city fathers,
who allow the only available reservoir to be
utilised as a bathing-place, a cattle-watering
centre, and a convenient receptacle for the dead
lady-bullock and cattle-dog of the district. The
only thing absent from the mixture is horse-sense.
A young and blushful pal of mine is in mourning
for a reputation (until now unblemished) which
has been shattered by a seaside public-house. The
young reputation had made all arrangements to
spend Christmas by the briny, but knowing the
forgetfulness of Bung at such times, sent along a
reminder that he had bespoken a six by ten en-
closure at the hotel. A few days later he received,
or rather the scandalised family received, a post-
card bearing the following reply : “ I have re-
served your accommodation for Xmas week. . . .
Kindly advise me whether you are bringing any
ladies with you.” Six by ten, and ladies ! These
seaside publicans do see life.
H.M.S. Pyramus will drop anchor in the Garden
Reach to-morrow, and from then on the girls will
be busy keeping the boys in blue from feeling too
homesick.
The New Society of Artists will open its show
on Wednesday with the assistance of the Mac-
gregor. There were hopes of a blending of the
two paint associations some time ago, but it came
to naught, and I hear that a recent blackballing
hasn’t helped things.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


k
>•-
ss
r*i.
&
A
&
■ V
m
V;
.....
m
w*
-'V
\r
% A -|*~
\
■
/
US
.'MM
Schweppes
Si
: 49 VALL MALI LONDON
!■■—».ll l. l—■
w«
«A»i?V J~V/FsToH.
PURE FRUIT
CORDIALS
Always order “SCHWEPPES”
LEMON
Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial.
Prepared solely from
Montserrat Lime Fruit Juice
m
OBTAINABLE
ALL GROCERS.


Rickets
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Scott’s Emulsion perman-
ently cures rickets. This
statement is made because
hundreds of parents have
written to say their children
were cured of rickets by
Scott’s Emulsion. For ex-
ample, Mrs. Grant, jr., wrote,
September 18th, 1908, from
43, Merriman Street, Miller’s
Point, Sydney, N.S.W.:
"Diphtheria left my daughter, aged one
year and eight months, with a nasty cough,
and she was unable to walk, owing to
rickets. I gave Scott’s Emulsion, ana
gsd
her cough was quite cured
after the second bottle.
Scott’s made her flesh quite
firm and solid, and she was
soon able to walk. She is now
stronger and better than she
has ever been, and looks
bright and healthy. This
trademark was on the emul-
sion I bought.”
If you wish to get rid of
rickets, and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott's
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Rickets if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
HEALTH AND
HAPPINESS!
ft
Electricity is a remedy provided by Nature.
If you are drugging and dosing yourself
STOP! and give Nature a chance to cure you.
If you suffer from Nervousness. Debility,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, or any Chronic Ailment
or Weakness, ELECTRICITY, as applied by
Dp. MeLaugnlin’s Electric Belt,
will cure you—if you are curable.
Free Book.
Write at once for our free
Book which tells all about
our Belt —how it cures and what it costs
the McLaughlin co.,
12 Linden Court, Sydney.
HOME CURE
for FAT PEOPLE.
ARE you one of those people who imagine
that excessive fat “is natural ” —and that
you should “let well alone,” as a foolish
old frump of a family doctor once told one
of our most successful patients ?
If you saw a man about to stab at your heart
wouldn’t you resist to your utmost ? Obesity
attacks your heart and is more relentless than
he who would attack you.
Wake up, you are drifting towards destruction.
Science has found a method, safe, harmless apd
reliable, by which you can reduce your weight by
as much as five pounds a week—without discom-
fort or detention from your daily routine.
You are no different to other fat people. You
are j ust fat, unhealthily fat, and so were they until
“FATCURE
came into their lives and reduced their weight to
normal, and prevented all possibility of death
from heart failure.
Send 2d. stamp, and let us send you a free trial
treatment and descriptive book on Obesity.
Call for Free Advice. [T»OS
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, j
;
m*D C HIM
The Woman
of To-Day
leads a busier life and has far
more strain on her physical resources
than a generation ago, and is there-
fore more often liable to get run-down,
sluggish and constipated.
"ft Few need to be told how serious such a condition
as constipation is—how headaches, biliousness, fevers,
weak nerves, anaemia and organic troubles are brought
on by its neglect —but it cannot be too often repeated that
constipation, to be properly and permanently overcome, must
be corrected by the most gentle and natural means.
The safest remedy—the one which millions use and which
the highest medical authorities have always approved—is
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP of FIGS
“Nature’s Pleasant Laxative.’’
It neither purges nor strains the system, but acting quietly,
cleanses, soothes and strengthens the organs at fault and
restores the whole system quickly to its proper working state.
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
YOU MUST ASK FOR CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
fg
16/6
The Ideal Summer
Shoe for Ladies.
Beauty, daintiness, adaptability and ease of fit
were never better exemplified than in the fine
Shoe here illustrated-—it is one of the latest and
most fashionable.models.
PRICE 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
GAZEKA SHOE PASTE, in Black and
Brown, large tin, 6d.
Write for Booklet, “ Shoelight."
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; 1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.]!
r-
f.%
V,
Or
v..
5^2
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half" will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
ot~Al/red Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining’
the Causes and Cyre-of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagta Street, Sydney.
The Elite
Eau deCologne
m
%
A
#/-_3'4
crf ca'i. §
V**"-
FIDELITAS
2§k
11«n»W(V»U.-<
SM
■- • » > Jfc&'M
9*
Mi
m
m
■mss.
m*
Triumph of
Modern Science
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.A.M.F.S. : You’ll understand why Tasmania
has to chase what is practically a poll-tax if you read
“The Isle of Jim-Jams” (B. 10/11/’10). One generation
can’t loaf on the next generation without making it
mighty awkward for that next generation. You happen
to belong to the next generation J. Munkin : Pars of
the right sort are acceptable from anyone and anywhere.
But you’ll have to put into three lines what you’ve
sprawled over half-a-column J.H. : Black and blood-
red, though there are freak desert peas of other colors.
Oiktos : Too late now; and, anyway, cui bono ?
Billy Nudgel: All right. Mr. Beeby is hereby told that
well-to-do farmers have IheN.S.W. Agricultural Gazette
supplied to them for nothing, while school teachers who
make use of it in their schools have to pay for it.
... L.M.R. : Excellent sentiments; but you don’t
say the old thing in a new way VV.C.J. :
Dreary.... A.R.G. (Argentina): Sincere verse; but
rather exaggerated and vague. One or two lines are
clumsy... .S. (V.) : “ The Vulgar Little Girl ” will not be
admitted. Others below par ...K. (V.): It is an evil
poem. Catch a wowser and read it to him ...H.K.:
There may be hope upon your brow, but we have read
the poem, and ours is a mass of gloom. You seem to
have a weakness for faint, watery ink. Write your next
in the invisible variety ; it will save trouble Stoh R.:
Unsuitable... L. Lou: You wrestled bravely with the
small idea, but it beat you easily. The feet of the poem
are badly arranged, and it treads frequently on its own
corns E.G.M.8.: Smooth, commonplace verse ...L.B,
(V.): Pork-shop poem is rough, but very nourishing. Two
helpings :
He’s happy ’cause he’s free
To everything he sees —
Pudding black and white,
Be it beef that’s corned,
Or a roll of brawn,
Onions and tripe.
And there he sups,
With his beer cup,
A"d does his teeth employ—
\Vi;h liver and tongue,
Pig’s feet well done,
And a juicy saveloy.
....R.J.E. : Your farewell address to the discarded gar-
ment did not cheer u5....F.0. : Too slight Pariah:
Verses unsuitable.... Bandicoot: Three knots of your
tragic marine poem, “ Missing ” :
Who ! Who’s to tell what the sea-birds see?
A treacherous reef, where wreckage floats,
And a lonely beach where the chill moon gloats,
Gloats, gloats,
Gloats, gloats,
On corpses as cold as she.
Nor the ghastly phantoms beneath those waves,
Dead forms stretched stark on the ocean floor,
O'er them the surges roll and roar,
Roar, roar,
Roll and roar,
And break o’er their salty graves.
And close by, marked with her grim death-fight,
Lies the steamer all torn and crushed,
Cold her boilers, her engines hushed
Hushed, hushed,
Hushed, hushed,
Poor remnant of conquered might.
...Bullfinch (W.A.): Very dull and long-winded....
Tommy George: You’re a dealer in false rhymes and
write on both sides of transparent paper. Disqualified
for life E.T.S.: “Dawn” won't break in these
columns S.S.C.: Off the trail in several places
No stamps enclosed for return McGinty: “ Will J urn-
buck’s Will” won’t.. ..Bushman (V.): Bird verses not up
to publication perch Freak: The poem weighs just
on two tons.. ..M.P.: Your opinion re this country is not
worth a penny stamp to us; also, for reading it you owe
us a bottle of whisky. (P.S.: The Religious Editor will
call for it.next week.) Hopeful: “I don’t often see
such pieces as the following printed in The Bulletin,
and, as the picnic season is approaching, I thought it
might prove acceptable.” The limpid thing which fol-
lows flows along like the babbling brook for 13 lines, then
unexpectedly saws off this:
The wooden breeze with many a breeze is laden.
It is the only flash of originality in the whole thing....
J.F. (V.): “Renunciation” so utterly bald that
we’ve bought it some hair tonic Olaf S. : Dull,
heavy and long. Most stories written on foolscap
are. There! is something fatal about foolscap
G.C.R.: Thanks. We haven’t finished yet.. F. B.
Toko: Well written, but off our beat Billiken : More
chestnuts for the basket Petford A.: Sorry for your
afflictions, but the foolishness is not worth more than
about two lines F.A.: Interesting ; but will you swear
to the figures?... E.lv. : Safest and simplest to consult
some patents agent. There are two or three reputable
people advertising .. ..W.H.8.: Glad to hear it. But,
tell us, how in that case did the farms combust?....
A. McN. : The MSS. is too much like the tracks made by
a demented spider to get serious consideration
I. : Thanks. Stored up for use when occasion offers.
J. : Disagree with you enthusiasticallv. Instead of
money being only worth If per cent, shortly, this paper
believes that, with a few years of High Protection and
Closer Settlement, there will be so much work for money
to do that it will be worth a good deal more than the
present 3 or 3J per cent.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTIUHUTOKS.
W.H.J.T. ; One misses by miles and the other by an
inch or 50... T.11.D.: Lot of promise in them. But are
they original ?
In a serious spirit the Yic. House of Fat
Landlords lias appointed a committee to inquire
into the working of the State coal mine. The
committee includes the Chamber’s most arrant
Tories, and its ultimate finding should be at least
as unbiassed as Satan’s idea of Christian virtue or
Judkins’s opinion on local option.
The theory of “ Bloggs
The rumor as to Belle Elmore being still alive continues
to drift round. After all, it wouldn’t be astonishing if
she were. Her husband was in love with his typewriter.
The affair was a scandal in the little Crippen set, and
Mrs. Crippen was in the position of the woman scorned.
It is likely that she craved for revenge. Crippen and Be
Neve were away from Hilldrop Crescent all day. It
would have been easy for Mrs. Crippen to excavate the
cellar, pile in lime, a suit of pyjamas, some h.voscirie, and
the fragments of any old remains from skinned dog to
uncooked pork.
She hadn’t a wide acquaintance, and London is a big
place, while the European continent is even bigger. In
London a man has been known to lose himself utterly by
moving from Pimlico to West Kensington. The other
day a Londoner was sent to prison for bigamy, having
contrived for nine years to live two separate family lives
with two different women, the homes being less than a
mile apart.
Before levanting, Mrs. Crippen might have dropped a
few guarded hints among her music-hall acquaintances
as to the peril she stood in from Crippen. In fact, there
is no doubt she did this, which was how the police were
put on the scent.
Once away, Belle Elmore had only to lie low to bring the
most hideous trouble on her false husband and the hussy
who had supplanted her iti his affections.
The strange lady who, according to a cable message,
alighted from a train at Alix and fainted on overhearing
a chance remark to the effect that Crippen had been sen-
tenced to be hanged, may have been merely a stray sen-
timentalist with a horror of hanging ; on the other hand
it is none too fantastic a theory that she was Mrs.’
Crippen. Take it for all in all, the British Home Office is
in something of a hole in regard to Crippen. If it
doesn’t hang him soon it can never hang him at all, and
if it doesn’t wait, it may find out a few weeks after sus-
pending him, that his alleged victim had been living
round the corner, so to speak, all the tune.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE- CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
frITS
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Hiblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently.
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who fur 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of r> commendation from
Doctors, Clergymen and other persons of the
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.—Send for very interesting booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. Rockk,
Tompsitt & Co., -0- to 2!)8 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Big G
Borated Golden seal
_ Compound
f A safe and simple remedv for'
, Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
i Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous mombranes
or linings of tho nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
l Treatise with jach bottlo
or mailed on request.
k The Etui Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
D.S. A.
B.S.A
FITTINGS
rßut you must Insist oponl
every part being GENUINE l
B.SA.. as even one cheap iml- 1
tation part may entirely spoil
an otherwise perfect cycle*
For your protection, all
Gennine B.S.A.
Fittings are plainly stamped with
the world-famous trade mark of
the THREE PILED RIFLES (illus-
trated below), and if you would
obtain the absolute maximum of
SPEED
STRENGTH
LIGHTNESS and
RELIABILITY
that it is possible to embody In
your new bicycle, you must
see to it that EVERY PART
| carries the B.S.A. TRADE
MARK. Write for a copy of the
| special Australasian edition
lof the B. S. A. HANDBOOK.
I which gives full information I
lon B.S.A. Trade Marks, B.S.A. I
I Fittings, Eadie Coasters, Two I
■ Speeds, &c., post free from J
TRADE
MARK
sdf
B.S.A.
D. Y. RENNIE
Representing the B.S. A. Co. Ltd.
S Stock Exchange Buildings
MELBOURNE
m
F
7 <
Alcock Billiard
Tables excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and hej«
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “ Alcock’s.’
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the match between George Gray and Fred
Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coming off the red,
thus establishing two world’s records, and for which Gray
received a gold medal, is an example. This score is another
proof of the marvellous accuracy and perfect construction of
our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney; 114 Edward St., Brisbane; Lower Cuba St., Wellington
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; 7 Ring William St., Adelaide; Murray St., Perth
FAMOUS FROM EARTH TO MARS.
Dr. Thomas Elouis Phenomenal Invention
THE
MARK'S
The Rapid Disease Destroyer
Can be worn on Any Part of the Body Without Inconvenience.
Cures immediately Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Weak Back Kidney Trouble, Varicose
cures lmmeuiu y Veins and othej . D}gease ,. o{ the Nerves and Blood.
Eminent Scientists say that it will bring about a revolution in therapeutic medicine because it destroys
at once uric acid, albumen and other poisonous matter in the blood
Read the daily papers what wireless telegraphy is doing. More wonderful still is THE MARCOMDON,
ive J alleviating suffering humanity.
Write for Our Book, “ Victory Over Disease,” which will be sent Free to All.
NO CURE. NO PAY.
THE DR. THOMAS ELOUIS “MARCONIDON” CO., 11 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
WATCH AND CHAIN AND RING
For Selling Our High Grade Art Post Cards
GIVEN
STEM
WINDjS
IfWf'jSfiSfi'i
£TEM
SET
PEERLESSWATCH SSfiviOT East 63rd Street, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®. Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PE,R.NIX” carbide:.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
> When Mosquitoes annoy you s
> remember how useful, either for pre- \
> venting the attack of these and other j
> insects, or antiseptically cleansing their <
i bites, so many people have found (
: Calvert’s
!20 % Carbolic Soap. <
It is also pleasant and refreshing for ,
l bath or toilet, and a good safeguard <
) against infectious diseases.
> Sold by all Chemists and Stores. ,
>Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, EngJ
Early Spring
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer's).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
jgBKSSBSaaa
BIRDS
ktUSTARD^
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
L Adults and the Youthful alike.


gsd
I
©™ /A -
-EL oi>@s>
LIKE HISTORY IT REPEATS ITSELF
As a means of pleasure and sport, the Winchester Automatic Rifle
is as far ahead of any other .22 Caliber as an automobile is ahead of
the historic one horse shay. After loading this rifle, all that it is nec-
essary to do to shoot it ten times is to pull the trigger for each shot.
Although automatic in action, it is simple in construction and not apt
to get out of order. For city, country or camp it is the gun of the
day. To shoot it is to appreciate it. Price 75/-, Postage 3/9.,
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
CATALOGUES FREE.
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
V'K
53
m,
TO)
■olessorl iow&rd stys:
“TRe principal insed
aset\i ir\lKe spread ol
Typhoid islhe common
House, fly "
PfoSQUifoes are
Kl\avvr\ la dislfibule
disease aerms bur
IKe House fly is re<gprd
-ed by medical sciers-
-tisfs as IKe mosh
deadly enemy ox
Kumardfy. •*
ji
fie*
8.
m.
vG IN
%
I
SB
xrt
I W.
/vT
S/<o 1 \i
no
vXc ■?
BY UvSING
" INSECTICIDE
The Main Attractions of THE
LONE HAND Christmas Number
SEVEN BIG STORIES:
Humorous : THE- MINUS QUANTITY—a comedy of the surf—by Milton
Maegiregor.
A FLOOD OF TROUBLE —the maddest yarn ever pub-
fished-—by “ Kodak.”
A BUSH WEDDING—a page from Backblocks life—by
“ The Parson.”
Cheerful : KINTON’S CHRISTMAS BOX, by Herbert E. Riemann.
Pathetic : THE WAY OF TRANSGRESSORS—a charming child
story—by Winnifred Scott.
Ghostly: THE KNOCK AT THE DOOR—a weird yarn, with illustrations
of Norman Lindsay kids —by Edward Dyson.
Dramatic: McTAVISH OF THE “DAMOS”-a stirring sea-story—by
T. S. Gurri
SIX BIG ARTICLES:
AUSTRALIA’S FIRST PLAYERS —with illustrations by Norman Lindsay
of Sydney’s first dramatic performance—by Morgan McMahon.
THE LARGENESS OF AUSTRALIA —an essay in brag—by J. H. M.
Abbott.
THE riAN=EATING SHARK— things that every surf-bather should know—
by Egbert T. Russell.
THE PACIFIC—A JAPANESE POND —an article on naval defence that
will startle every patriotic Australian.
TRANSPORT IN AUSTRALIA —a breezy, informative Outback article—by
Randolph Bedford.
AUSTRALIAN BOOK-PLATES —concerning a little-known art, with
examples of Australian designers—by Bertram Stevens.
A Marvellous SIXPEN’ORTH !
Published Wednesday, November 30.
A Bulletin correspondent:—
The annual rumpus in Victoria about the shortage of
railway rolling stock is going to be unusually acute this
year. The authorities are explaining that the Powlett
coal traffic is largely responsible. Nearly a year ago
.official estimates were made of what the coal production
of Powlett was going to be. The output at the end of
one month, three months, 12 months, was all worked out.
The estimate has not been exceeded by much, if at all.
Tait should therefore have prepared for the extra
traffic. He knew the coal could not walk to Melbourne,
and he also knew that Melbourne would be the destina-
tion of 90 per cent, of it. The Powlett coal-traffic plea is
therefore no good. The accused must be found guilt v.
In every respect, however, the railways are in a tangle.
They are short of engines, carriages, trucks, men, every-
thing. Obsolete types of locomotives, which have been
stowed away somewhere for years and years, have been
brought into use. Suburban passenger engines, no longer
heavy enough for the increased traffic, are pressed into
the goods service on short runs. The official mouthpiece
-of the Commissioners is hinting pretty strongly t hat the
coming wheat traffic must be “ regulated according to
departmental facilities/’ This is a system which is
being gradually developed right through the railway-
carrying business. Tlie usual 9th of November holiday
was abandoned,’ as the railway people said they
could not provide the special picnic trains. It
is expected that soon the travelling public will
he required to draw lots for the order in which
it shall travel. Or that Adams, Brown and
Clarke shall travel on Mondays, Dawson, Edwards
and Foolshead on Tuesdays, and so on. The goods traffic
ma ybe worked the same way. There are enormous possi-
bilities in this scheme.
If other ports were allowed to rob Melbourne of any
trade, this would, I know, be unnecessary. Had Port-
land, for instance, a share of the traffic, much wheat
from the West and North-West would he sent there, and
tlie trucks returned loaded with outwards goods. The
vehicles would do two or three trips, while they are at
present being hauled hundreds of miles through the
empty spaces of squatter-infested country between Mel-
|>ourne and the Mallee in the strujrji'le to do one trip or
half a trip. But Melbourne must not be robbed of its
traffic monopoly, whatever happens.
Another warning note about the Great
Awakening :
One hundred thousand pounds have been subserilv d for
the foundation of a great University at Hong- Kong-.
English will be the language; yet the subscribers are
mainly Chinese, although a Parsi launched the
idea and led off with £16,000. The Chinese and
English Governments both contribute. Heavy.subscrip-
tions have come from Canton, Shanghai, Foq Chow
and Pekin. Affiliated to. Oxford or Cambridge, the Uni-
versity will be on the highest basis, and give recognised
degrees in medicine, etc. The wealthy Chinese are very
dissatisfied with the fact that their sons become de-
nationalised with a few j’ears’ study in America, Ger-
many, France or England ; hence their generous support
of this scheme. Meanwhile, a rival University is being
established at Hankow, with Chinese as the tongue. Big
money flows in for this also ; but it is not expected to
equal the one at Hongkong.
“ Bosun ” : An attempt on the part of the
officers and crew of the steamer Newcastle to make
an honest brown has had less luck than sailormen
would like to have seen. The Newcastle, meet-
ing a lame duck at sea in the shape of the Union
Co.’s collier Whangape, towed the cripple into
port, where a claim was lodged by the owners for
salvage. Knowing that, whatever the size of the
verdict, the recovering owners could put up
to 75 per cent, of it into their pockets,
and leave the balance to be divided on
board according to ratings, the officers
and crew of the towing vessel laid seDarate
claims against the U.S.S. Co. for services ren-
dered. But the Whangaps’s owners rushed into
the Vice-Admiralty Court, and requested that all
the suits should be consolidated, which request
the Court granted despite the appeal of the New-
castle’s men to have their proper share of the
verdict recognised. And now the fore-and-aft
hands aboard the rescuer arfe bearing up against a
head wind of hard inozzle, frozen with the painful
knowledge that the Costs of the try-on will come
out of their salvage claims.


WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
s MELBOURNE :
:’; • * * ;/? ’• £
|L\WM\T vr^l‘^’ aIV? “ v ' ?aro ’ ?to *
\t \ sexW: ox\ revest
ui
V
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
fgs
15-17 Market Street, Sydney
What You Get Not What You P v COUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Built by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
M
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU !
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited,
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
A
POLICY lOH the COMMONWEALTH
Price, tid. The Bulletin Office.
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
| HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Colouring Tricks. Puzzles. Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAT WATER PISTOL.
Durable, Reliable and Perfectly dale.
Will stop the most vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury. In-
valuable for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more effect on
beggars arid tramps than
a watch-dog. Reloading
unlimited. It creates great amusement for young
and old. Length 5 inches, nickel-plated and nicely
ornamented. Price 1/6 post free anywhere.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, 1/2.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price with full directions, 7d. post free.
I
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO., LTD.,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch ; 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Street8 L _Syaney 1
WOOL,
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
m.
1
m
m
a
OLD
ORKNEY
WHISKY
AGENTS :
Melbourne —T. R. IJones & Go.,
366 Bourke Street.
Brisbane—Elliott, Donaldson &
Douglas, Ltd., 108-110 Eagle
Street.
Adelaide —Lord & Heseltine, ,90
Pirie Street.
Launceston —John Mcßen?ie &
Co.
Hobart—John Ferguson & Co,
" The Whisky of
Age & Flavour,”
Made in tKe
old-time way.
And We hold a
10 Years 9 Supply
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
'Proprietors of STROMNESS "DISTILLERY,
ORKNEY, SCOTLAND.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
Is
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By' Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -®S
IMF-
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-workino for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity' Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled Into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ISP - Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui’, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hit. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of The King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. /Vest /Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 Nkw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete). Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
o
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F.. or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, takedown action, open front and rear «s lO -ht« _ _ ,
weight 4slb. Postage-1/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State. g ’ 25/-
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear 37/6.
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each
extra.
dfg
“The Continental,’’ 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all weight about 41b. A splendid 0
gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State. OdS.
S™
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. /!
Postage—2s. 3d. N.S.W. ; 4s. 2d. Inter-State.
Send for our Illustrated Sports,
Fishing and Tobacco Lists, FREE.
;o
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding' bur locks, extension rib, pistol walnut \
stock, snap fore-end, weight 12-gauge, about 71b., 16-gauge, about 6ilb. Delivered, £3/15/“
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darting St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney} Church St., Parramatta / 311 King St., Newtown. [2
Schute, Bell & Co.
limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
Model “T" Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
ever / P 3r3 °n sending in the Corre ct Solulicn of Ihc fdltwing Tuzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them this sum of s y
FIVE POUNDS
subieot to the conditions hereunder :
t J l . e . enori ?®« demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
1911 Serisa ad w rtlSlng ’4.T th *u^ eobjeot ° f makin S our name more widely known, and to intro dues ou-
Z *™- We “P B ? 4 V this competition of brains to make such an imoression on your mind that
PICTURE POST e CARI)S. alk ab ° Ut U ® y ° Ur friends> aad the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
«... .. . . ALL WE ASK YOU TO QO IS THIS :
xill m the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O.R P„T C.R.S A,E T.E B„T V.L.E IN A.S RL A.
streetstHn» mUSt ,t be P° ste , d , lnd addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co *Hunter-
reet, Sydney and rrceived by him and must agree with our solution, lodged in the Bank of N.S.W.
With ~. PRI ZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY
for wh^b r wT 1U n° n A the a i° ve PuZZle <to Which ,here is no entr y fee) > send us a Postal Note for 2/6
vou7solutT n nTa 1 L Send f yOU Fre n asam P le P aokat of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
=o rect, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask vou to
services for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct answersinTs oXHu whTcfthet Sf T n
have been read bv the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO h " th s shall
Should your solution reach us before the closing date, and be correct accord,'no. +„ „„„ „„„ jji:„
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN iTad*', and
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize H AND CHAIN (Lady sor
N.B,—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms cart nftl,;«
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF which lorms part of this competition,
FINE ART POST CARD CO.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding.
Signed
Address.
Date
/
9
A healthy drink for hot days and all days. Good for the
' youngsters. It communicates its own delightful puri.y
and coolness to the blood, and it quenches thirst better
than stimulants. Its delicious flavour appeals to everyone.
Made in two kinds : Unsweetened, i,e„ Plain Lime Juice
Sweetened, i.e., Lime Juice Cordial, Sold everywhere.
Cooling—Satisfying '
‘Montserrat
Lime Juice
SB
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
I'MIOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
clnonic, noi Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
For comfort and health you must wear
all-wool stockings, socks, and underwear. Nothing
else will do. Most all-wool wear shrinks.
Wear ‘‘jfaL6or£
' —the hosiery that is made of soft, fleecy,
absorbent Australian wool, and nothing but
wool, and that is absolutely unshrinkable.
Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear, for Men, Ladies, and Children,
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock
he can obtain it from his 9
wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for
"Jason " Booklet and
name of nearest Agent,
to
Jason Hosiery Co.,
i.eicester, England.
Aa6 <l>
sdf
Sfte BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TCN Cd.


“Life was One
Long Continual
Headache.”
“LAXO-TONIC PILLS
MADE ME A NEW
WOMAN.”
“ I have suffered with
a disordered liver for
some time, and dreadful
headaches and very sore
eyes, and dark spots came out
on my face, caused through the
liver,” writes Mrs. Vera Smith, 30
Raglan Street, Port Melbourne, Vic-
toria. “ I also suffered from a pain in
my side. My liver used to swell up
something cruelly. 1 used to tremble like
a leaf with weakness, and I was unable to
retain my food, sometimes not being able
to keep down even a cup of tea. Headaches
were so common with me that 1 might
almost say my life was one long continual
headache. I could not sleep at night. 1 would
have to get up about four times in the night
and retch ; then I would get as cold as ice, and
yet would feel as hot as fire. I have tried all
sorts of advertised remedies for the liver, but
failed to get relief. A friend gave me a few
Laxo-Tonic Pills to try and see if they would do me
any good. She only gave me a few, but they worked
wonders on me, so that I bought a large bottle, and
took one every night for about three weeks, and I
felt them doing me a wonderful lot of good ; and
now, wonderful to say, I am quite cured, and enjoy-
ing the best of health. 1 have never came across Pills
like these, for they have made me a new woman.’*
Sample free upon application to Laxo Tonic
Pill Company. 15 O’Connell-streot, Sydney.
1/6
m
Buyers of
Horrockses 1
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO- BRITISH
EXHIBITION, 1908
G. & G. 603
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
have a guarantee if HORROGKSES*
name is on the Selvedges, that they
are getting the very best that the
Old Country Produces.
Decline all Substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LA I T LAROLA
Invaluable
for fhe SKIN
in HOT
orCOLD
I climafes.
! Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
QttTH AAf’s
Lait
cvro
Reg?,
Sole Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM, ENG LAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAtT LAROLA
VERY SOOTH ING AFTER SHAVING
The Silent Poet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is a poet who has made no rhyme,
Who never stirred upon a vibrant lyre
'One crystal phrase of song, who never
wrought
Deep rhythms, slow-furnaced in a minstrel fire,
And battered with the anvil blows of time.
No trick of tune or melody he caught
From happy singing bird or marching days,
Or hoary forest, scented with the spring,
When all the airs were glad with bloom and wing,
And young Joy danced a-down the greener ways.
The inner voices of the quiet hills.
That breathe when all men sleep, have spoken oft
Clear words to him alone. The mystic sea,
Fondling the sand with white foam-fingers soft,
Bore whispers of that secret thing that thrills
Its weedy caves. The large winds, blowing free
Out of star silences, have deeply sung
To his rapt soul; and morn and eventide
H ave steeped him in a melody that cried
Like smitten harp-strings when delight was
young.
The purple vine, whose trellis is the world,
O’erarched him with its branches, and large grapes
Dropped a red blood of magic-ripened wine
Within his chalice. From the fretted capes
Of far dream-islands, where the scented pine
Raised its dark banners to the clouds that curled
Over a thought-wide ocean, his clear eyes
Gazed long and far. Sometimes a wandering keel
Out of the keen, bright dawning seemed to steal—
An opal gleam against the painted skies.
The mighty liturgies of Life and Time
‘Pealed a deep undertone within his soul,
And all sweet living things filled him with song.
Love, Memory and Death, that ever roll
Slow tides of music welling full and strong.
Bathed him in thunder-harmonies. Wild rhyme
Of Hope, a-tingle on the swaying air.
Filled all the pearly time of dawn and dew,
And in storm-smitten darknesses he knew
The orgap-wailings of a world’s Despair.
His heart and lips were touched with altar-fire,
Yet was his voice unheard, nor did his hand
Write large imaginings in singing phrase
For men to read ; and few could understand
How the green chaplet of a poet’s bays
Still clasped his brow. His heart-strings were his
lyre,
And evermore his fine, keen days would trace
The lyric thrill, the epic thunder-roll,
And the vast, moving drama of the soul
In finely written lines upon his face.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
A King of Kids.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE little school-house at Yam was a
weatherboard structure, very much the
worse for wear. It had never been painted,
and was as plain as a barn. Also, it was of a very
primitive order of architecture, long and narrow,
the gable end facing the ironstone road and star-
ing drearily across the common to where the top
of Golden Hill broke the shimmering line of
horizon. There was a vague suggestion of senti-
ence about the old school; it was invested with a
Sphinx-like personality. Looked at from a dis-
tance, its windows were dull eyes, its door a ser-
viceable nose; and the green shingles on its roof
had curled into a passable imitation of hyacin-
th ine locks.
When the school was new some public-spirited
citizen of Yam had planted two poplar trees at
the back, close to the walls, one on each side.
These trees had grown disregarded, and as they
grew had pinbhed the frail building between
them, and lifted it a little off its hind legs, giving
it a forward lurch and a hint of the awkwardness
of a terrier propelled' on his fore paws by a mis-
chievous urchin.
Daniel Addis, having beguiled the teacher into
letting him out for five minutes that morning,
returned, bursting with tidings.
“They’s a bloke out there,” he whispered.
“ He’s gotter a camp behind the stable. Whiskers
growin' all over him, like a pirit.”
“ Whiskis all over him ? Gerrout, yell can’t
Stuff me!” breathed an incredulous neighbor.
Danny flamed into protestation. “ Betcher !”
he said, warmly. “.Betcher thousan’ poun’!
Whiskers down to here, and a swag, and a dorg.”
“Addis!” called a fatal voice, “out on the
floor, if you please.”
It was the order of doom. Danny’s face
clouded instantly, and his soul turned sour within
him. He cast a look of implacable hate on the
incredulous scholar. He dug knees and knuckles
into him as he clambered out from beneath desk
and seat. He breathed horrible vengeance.
“I’ll show yeh fer this, Stonky. Wait till I
get yeh.”
“Will yeh? Will yeh? ’Tain’t in yeh !” sig-
nalled Stonky, in covert defiance!'
“Yes. will I! Kill yeh stone dead. I will.
Jes’ wait, tha’s all.”
“Addis !” thundered the teacher.
“ Yessir ! Elliot won’t le’ me get me foot out.”
“Oh, please sir, I never did.” Stonky Elliot’s
voice vibrated with beautiful feeling. On his
cherubic face shone the refulgent virtues.
The teacher pointed to a very particular knot
on the hardwood floor, and Addis occupied the
spot, and was left to stew in the sad prospect of
two cuts, and the more depressing chance of being
kept in.
Danny’s information was quite as correct as a
small boy’s information can reasonably be ex-
pected to be. There was a swagman of uncom-
mon hairiness out behind the stable. He was
short and broad. He sat on his swag with his
hack to the wall; he had a chop skewered on a
wire, and was grilling the meat over a small fire
of chips. His iron-grey whiskers were very pro-
fuse. Of his face you could see two bright grey
eyes, two small round red-brown knobs of cheek,
and a nose. The rest was all hair and eyebrows.
There was even a ridge of hair down his nose.
The swaggy wore an ancient felt hat pulled into
a cone. The sun had burnt all the color out of it,
as it had out of his patched coat and his mole-
skin trousers. There was an air of cheerfulness
all over the man ; even his boots had burst out
laughing, and his toes twinkled through the grin.
His nose had been broken at some time, and was
quaintly depressed.
He smiled at the boys. That is to say, his
abundant beard and moustache wreathed them-
selves into hairy affability. Then he threw the
half-cooked chop off the end of the wire, spiked
it on the other side as it fell, and resumed the
grilling.
“ What yeh think o’ that?” he said, with con-
scious pride. “Not many blokes could do that
at my age.” He repeated the sleight-of-hand
with the chop.
The boys drew nearer, and to encourage them
the swaggy held up his thumb.
“ There’s a thumb for yeh.” he said. “ Rummy
thumb, eh? Never saw a thumb like that afore,
I bet.”
It was certainly a remarkable thumb, looking
as if it had been spread by enormous pressure-
very wide and flat like a beaver’s tail. The boys
examined it with great interest. They thought
of many things a thumb like that would be useful
for. Each lad wished he had it.
“ Stung be an alligator,” said the swaggy.
“Go on!” murmured Stonky Elliot. “’Ow
was that ?”
“ S’pose I tell yeh’bout it while we’re eatin’
our dinner ? ” He pulled a paper from the end of
the swag and spread it on the grass. “ There
yeh are. Sit up. Glad to see yeh all at me
humble board.” He deposited his solitary chop
on the near corner of the paper.
There were five boys in all, and each had a
bundle of lunch in his hand. Willingly they
knelt about the piper, and added their dinners to
the singed chop.
“ Good ! Good !” said the host, gaily. “S’posin’,
for instance, you boys had threepence among yeh,
I could show a great trick. Coppers fer choice;”
Fred Beenby had a penny, Dolf Ashworth had
a penny, and Stonky had two ha’pennies. The
happy'swaggy put the coppers in his billy and
rattled them.
“ Now,” he said, vivaciously, “ who’ll go fer the
beer ? ”
Fred promptly volunteered, but the swaggy
looked at him keenly and held his hand. His
action showed remarkable perspicacity. Fred
Beenby was the boy who, only a week before,
when sent for a shilling’s worth of “colonial ” by
his confiding parents, failed to reappear, and was
subsequently found sitting under Caddon’s furze
hedge on the empty billy, drivelling hymns. He
had lost his clothes and burnt his hair off, and be-
lieved himself to be King Jerry Jerry of the Bar-
rabool blacks.
“No,” said the swaggy; “I’ll send me dog.
Percy ! Percy ! ” He blew a shrill whistle. We
heard a scurry among Walshe’s hens, and the dog
dashed round the corner of the stable, carrying a
chicken in his mouth. “ Ah, there you are,
Percy.” The swagman regarded him with be-
nevolent pride. “And blessed if he ain’t got a
hen. Queer dog that feller is—he’s alwiz pickin’
up with strange hens. Great sympathy he’s got
fer hens what’s ownerless and alone. Look at
’im ! ”
We were looking. Percy was a strange mixture
of a dog. Mongrel was written all over him. He
had some of the qualities of every known dog,
but the hairiness of the Russian retriever pre-
dominated, even though his color was a rusty
brown and his head was small and foolish, like a
poodle’s. The chief characteristic of Percy was
his gravity. He sat up, staring at his master
through little eyes almost blinded with hair, his
head slightly on one side, and his tongue hanging
limply,; perfectly still, and with nQne of the ex-
uberant symptoms of an ordinary vain dog who
has just performed a good action.
“Look at ’im !” repeated the swaggy fondly.
“ Honest as the day lie is. If he takes and bor-
rers a hen, you alwiz knows it’s nobody’s hen—a
hen without a friend in the world.”
Percy’s owner pinched the chicken’s neck firmly
between finger and thumb, whirled its body three
turns, and then stuffed the poultry in his swag.
“Percy,” he said, “we’re waitin’ fer the beer.”
The dog took the billy handle, and, hoisting his
head to keep the utensil from knocking on the
stones, trotted off, the pennies rattling as he went.
“Does he know where the hotel is?” asked
Stonky Elliot, with a touch of almost awe in his
voice.
“Know!” said the swaggy. “He knows
everythink. With a dog like that, I might a’ bin
Minister iv the Crown this blessed day if I'd
wanted to—or a Guv’nor. But then I’d ’a’ had t’
live in a house. No houses fer ole Bob Rogers.”
The boys moved closer. Their eyes opened
wider. Here was a man indeed. None doubted
theabilitv of a special creation, with such whiskers,
such a thumb and such a dog, to rise to any
pinnacle of greatness. All respected his objection
to houses-
“ Can he do sums?” asked Ashworth. Arith-
metic was Dolf’s peculiar horror, the bane of his
existence.
“ Well, he ain’t made a study of ’em, but he
could do ’em if he wanted to. Howsomever, yeh
ain’t eatin’. Sit up an’ make yerselves at home.
Eat hearty ; yer all welcome,” The swaggy took
up the chop and Dolf’s largest piece of bread and
butter, and fell to. The boys ate diffidently.
There was silence for a minute.
“You ain’t showed us no trick,” said Stonky.
The swaggy held up his thumb again. “Stung
by an alligator,” he said ; “you know alligators’
stings is poisonous. Anyway, in the Gulf Coun-
try they are. Me ’n’ me ole mate. Cocker Hobbs,
was alligator ’untin’ them days. You hunts alli-
gators fer their hides ’n’ fat. Alligator oil’s used
fer niakin’ oilcloth ’n’ oileographs ’n’ what not.
It’s worth a guinea a pint. Cocker Hobbs was
the greatest alligator hunter in the North. A
splendid man, Cocker was, seven foot high, with
a noble bearin’ n'a golden beard two foot'long.
' Continued on next page.)


HARDSHIPS of OUTBACK
A Drover’s Suffering from Indigestion, Constipation,
and Piles—the Penalties of Rough Living#
THAT d box df Bile Beans is the bushman's trusty friend for the prd*
vention and cure of all troubles arising out of disorders of the livOr,
stomach and digestive organs is powerfully illustrated id the case
of Mr* T. Carpenter, a resident of Mudgee,
N*S,W. Owing, through the nature of his Occupation,
to rough living and improper dieting, this man con*
tracted Indigestion, Constipation and Piles in severe
forms, and his cure by the great standard remedy,
Bile Beans for Biliousness, after all other treatments’
proved utterly futile, illustrates the potent, power-
ful efficacy of this favorite family medicine. Mr.
Carpenter Says 1—
*' Id niy younger days (I am now 6 $ years 6f age) I
aid niy Share Of roUghihg it while following Ofcetipa-
tionS Of drdving, mining add similar ptirsUits. Fof
Seven years the Saddle Was my pilloW and the earth
iny rOsting-plaCe, for twice Only during that long period did
I sleep in a bed; Such rough living, combined With improper
diet, resulted irt my contracting indigeStidn, cdnstipatiori
and piles, which OauSed me do end of Suffering. I tried
several remedies for these ills, but they either griped me, or
acted in Some other unnatural and ihOonVehieht manner,
“A friend advised me to take Biie Beans, and I, was. sOon Satisfied that
I bad found,the.right remedy, for they speedily brought me relief aud cure,
Bile Beans haVe been my stand-by for about four,years now, and my
experience Warrants me in stating that they are the best and safest
medicine I have ever used,’’
JU!
U
We
eans
AUSTRALIA'S FAMILY MEDICINE.
If you suffer frorii
Indigestion, Bil-
iousness, Consti-
pation, Headache,
Wind, Nausea,
Debility, Anaemia,
or any Liver or
Stomach trouble,
Bile Beans will
quickly put you
right. Price 1/1J
and 2/9 per box, of
all chemists and
stores.
Pears 7 Christmas Feast for igio.
PEARS’
ANNUAL
Ready November 21st.
CONTAINS
5 Splendid Tales by
5 Famous Living Authors.
With 19 specially drawn Illustrations in Tints: —
The Handsome Stranger, by Geo. R. Sims, Illustrated by Frank
Dadd, R. 1.; Means of Transport, by W. Pett Ridge, Illustrated
by Bernard Partridge ; Corporal Jim, by Max Pemberton, Illustrated
R. Caton Woodville ; The Dragon's Tooth, by Dick Donovan,
Illustrated by Gordon Browne, R.I. ; A Model Man, by Barry Pain,
Illustrated by Will Owen.
Together with a Page of Music —The Old English Hunting Song,
“JOHN PEEL,”
Illustrated with a Series of Four incidents in the Song, comprising
Four Full Pasres in Colours, Facsimile Reproductions of the
Original Drawings.
THE ANNUAL IS AS USUAL ACCOMPANIED BY
Three Pre sen, ta. tion Plates
Each Printed in 12 or 13 Colours.
1. TEMPTED BUT SHY, by G. G. Kilbume, R.I.
2. OVER THE GARDEN WALL, by Fred Morgan.
3. BUTTERFLIES, by W. S. Coleman.
Sold by all Booksellers. Agents for Australasia—GOßDON & GOTCH.
Used to hate boys, Cocker did, bein’ fierce by
nature, till I told him better. ‘Boys,* sez I, ‘is
the faithfullest livin’ animal and friend of man.
Boys is true as steel ’n* hearts of oak. Boys will
perish miserable rather than say die, ’n’ they
never betrays a friend,’ After that Cocker Hobbs
was all for boys through thick ’n’ thin, same ez
old Bob Rogers, and there wasn’t no livin’ equal
of Cocker after alligators. He didn’t shoot ’em,
or catch ’em in spring traps, or fish for ’em with
hook ’n’ line, same’s other hunters. Cocker mes-
merised ’em. He would stand on the river shore
n’ entice ’em with low cries, imitatin’ a round of
beef, and when they poked their snouts up he
fixed ’emwith his eagle eye, made a pass over
em—so —’n’ it was done.
“ The alligator, bein’ by nature a pig, ain’t got
nobrams to speak of, and he’s easy to mesmerise.
When my ole mate, Cocker Hobbs, got ’em all
mesmerised' he ordered ’em out on the bank, ’n’
natural they had to obey, bein’ in the mesmeric
state. Cocker drew ’em up all in rows, ’n’ me ’n’
him skinned ’em at our leisure. One day he
ordered up a big ole man alligator, 49 foot long,
but when he got him on the bank Cocker was
called away sudden on a point iv law, leavin’ me
alone with the fearful insec’. The alligator had
his mouth wide open. It was larger ’n a hen-
house. Well, I walked in to have a look round,
and while I was fingerin’ one iv his back tusks
from the inside, all of a second his jaw fell down,
n there was I, prisoner. I could see out through
the alligator’s teeth, like a feller in a cage, but I
wasdoomed. Thealligator bein’ in ahypnoticslum-
ber, couldn’t open his mouth again, ’n’ besides,
me thumb was caught between two of his tusks,
so me hours was numbered. I s’pose your hours
was never numbered?”
The boys shook their heads. “I was onst bit
by a cow,” said Beenby tentatively.
3 a aw^u * feelin’,” continued the swagman.
‘For three days ’n’three nights me years was
numbered. I was prisoned in the mouth of the
mesmerised alligator, starvin’ t’ death. Then I
got a bright idea. ‘l’ll eat meself out,’ sez I.
Alligator ain’t good eatin’—at any rate, not fer
hepicures, specially raw alligator ; but I couldn’t
afford t’ be pertickler. Well, fer two days ’n*
nights, I chewed away at that alligator, but
’twasn’t no use. Everywhere I ran up agin the
bone, ’n’ besides, I was getting that fat be reason
iv the alligator oil ’n’ want iv exercise that I’d
need a hole ez big ez a well t’ crawl through. Me
appetite failed, too, ’n’ then I knew all was lo3t.
Hello 1 Here’s the beer.”
Percy had returned with the billy. His cheerful
master removed the lid. “And good measure,” he
said, joyfully. He held the billy before him,
moving it in gentle circles, his little, grey eyes
twinkling at the boys over the brim. “ Well, I
don’t know as you ain’t rightnot todrink the stuff,”
he said. “It’s rooned many a ’appy home, and
you ortenter run no risks, your home’s not bein’
insured. Luckily ole Bob Rogers ain’t got no
home.” He took a long drink, and set the billy
down.
“And how’d yeh get outer thealligator?” asked
Fred, eagerly.
“ Come ! come ! ” cried the swaggy, “eat up.”
He reached for Dolf’s nice, fat wedge of apole
pie, and bit it. “Why be shy?” He took
Elliot’s lump of saffron cake in his other hand.
“Onst I was a buccaneer bold, ’n’ a sailor of the
seas. I’ve come down in the world, but, rich ’r
poor, the boys’ll alwiz find a lovin’ uncle in ole
Bob Rogers, what was a brigand in his time, but
’as a kind heart. Three cheers fer all of us.”
Bob Rogers whirled his pie in the air, and
cheered, and the boys joined in. They cheered
heartily, impelled by a genuine enthusiasm. Here
was a great and good man, if ever there was one.
Ashworth offered his cold-boiled egg to the hero.
Little Kyley was hoping the ex-brigand would
honor him bv taking one of his sandwiches.
At this point, Daniel Addis created a diversion.
He dashed round the corner upon the festive
gathering behind the stable, his eyes full of fight.
He had suffered three cuts, and his tears and the
insidious dust of Yam were kpeaded into mud on
his freckled cheeks.
“You done it,” he yelled. “’Twas all your
fault, Stonky. I’ll murder yeh.” He aimed a
wild blow at Elliot, and the boys locked in
combat.
“A fight!’’ cried the swagsman. “Good-
hurrah !’’ He pushed his swag into position, and
setting his back to the stable, with a shelled egg
in his right hand, a slice of bread in his left, and
the billy of beer between his knees, he applauded
rapturously. “Hit ’im, little ’un,” he said. “Go
fer his wind; alwiz go fer his wind. Well done,
Spotty!” Waving his food, taking occasional
vehement bites, and frequent swigs at the beer,
Bob Rogers cheered the combatants with gay im-
partiality, and they fought with the vehemence of
angry animals. Twined in a solid wad of infuri-
ated boy, the pair went down, and hit and kicked
and clawed, panting insults and the intemperate
language of the cattle-yards, rolling on the
f round, tearing hair, spurred to unusual frenzy
y the encouragement of old Bob Rogers.
“Nit! Nit! Nit!” cried Dolf from the stable
corner. “Mack’s cornin’! ”
Maconochie, apprised of the outbreak by one of
the girls, bore down upon the enemies, cane in
hand. He found Elliot and Addis writhing on
the grass, and the small, disreputable swagman
bobbing about on his knees beside them, his ear
close to the ground.
“ Addis! Elliot! ” thundered the master.
The boys’ struggles ceased. They remained
locked in each other’s arms, stricken with a sort
of paralysis. Bob Rogers turned a quaint, inter-
rogative eye up at the master.
“ Would yeh call that a fall, Mister?” he said.
“Yes, right yeh are, a fall it is.” He pulled
Danny off. “ Tha’s one fall t’you,” he said. “I
been a champyin Cornish rassler meself in me
day,” he continued, addressing Maconochie, “’n’
was jes’ givin’ the boys a lesson. Noble sport
rasslin’, ez you say, sir. Orter be taught in all
schools.”
“I was given to understand that these boys
were fighting.” The master glared sternly, and
the culprits regarded him in dumb awe.
“Fightin’?” said Rogers, still upon his knees.
“ Fightin’ ? Blesh yeh, no. Best of friends.
Bosom brothers them two boys. On’y a rassle,
wasn’t it?”
“ Yeh-es-ess,” said the boys, weakly.
“ Then what is the meaning of this ?” Macono-
chie’s cane touched the tip of Elliot’s swollen and
gory nose. , . , . , • , . ~
“ A gentlfe bump of the ead, sir; kindly meant,
’n’ no ’arm done,” said Bob Rogers.
“ Hu m ph !” snorted Mack. “Let us have ho
more of it.” He turned and strode off, a little
discomfited. , . , .
Bob Rogers went smartly to the corner on his
hands and knees, and peered round it after the
master Then he turned slyly, and winked at
the boys and his whole mass of whiskers seemed
to be curled .into a hundred grins. He sprang to
h ’“ f Done him !” he cried, jubilantly. “Now
we’ll finish the dinner.”
And he did.
EDWARD DYSON.
The Path of Greatness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If Australia is ever to become great We itlUst check
this inordinate love of pleasure— Glootriy p&rson.
AUSTRALIA'S time of greatness
Must come the Wowser Way,
In sorrow and sedateness,
Renouncing joy and play |
No pleasant hour beguiling
With Sissy or with Kate.
We all must cease from smiling
To make our nation great.
Greece, Rome and Carthage tumbled
Because their hearts were glad,
And Egypt’s pride was humbled
Through failing to look sad ;
Yes, all who followed after,
And drank of pleasure’s cup,
Because of wine and laughter
Were straightway busted up.
Australia, gladly sinning,
Goes down the primrose way.
No saintly halo winning,
Her pride is to be gay.
A fragrant wreath of roses
Is on her shining hair
And each blue day that closes
Has thrown a brick at care.
She hears the Wowser raining
His prophecies of woe,
And finds it entertaining
To watch his godly show ;
And when, her mirth provoking,
He calls her to be great.
She fancies that he’s poking
The ribald ribs of fate,
Yes, gay Australia singing
Will choose the brighter track,
A wisp of laughter flinging
To shock the mah in black j
And, call it truth or madness.
Some greatness still may dwell
In hearts too fond of gladness
To have much faith in Hell.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MARIO.
Foreclosed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the street the people were all looking
up at a big sheet of roof-iron that had been
blown by the wind on to the telegraph wires.
They were very numerous there —about 50 on a
pole.
It hung and swung precariously over the crowd
by its ragged edges, swaying wildly to and fro.
The cabs, ranked under it, moved to the other
side of the street in case it came down. Two
telephone men were up the tall posts trying by
violent jerks to shift it, but it was firmly hooked,
and only danced about, to the amusement of the
people who gathered to see the sport.
Belton was one of the crowd, but he had neither
eye nor thought for amusement. He never took
his gaze off the corner of the street, and presently
the man he was watching for came round it,
portly, well-dressed, top-hatted, and hard-faced.
The newcomer, Gridlin, had the surprise of
finding himself in the unwonted crowd and of
meeting Belton, both at the same moment.
“Come in here !” he said, after taking a com-
prehensive glance around, and not best pleased at
the encounter. “We can’t talk business in this
fuss.”
Gridlin took no chances in this world that he
knew of, and he did not want that lump of iron
to flop on him. They turned into the spacious
lobby of the Vulture Assurance Co.’s building
hard by.
He placed himself up against the wall at the
very end of the hall-way, and faced round with: —
“ Well ! ”
“ Well! you’ve foreclosed ! ” said Belton.
“ I know it! ”
“ But I could have got the money somewhere—
if I had known. You know I can’t go out just
now 1 ”
“My dear fellow, the law will soon put you
out if you are not out by the 14th. If you like to
go quietly and not make a noise about it I’ll make
it £5 in your pocket, and that’s the most I can
say ! ”
“ But, man alive, any Jew would give me more
time 1 ”
“Perhaps so; but I’ve a cash offer for the
whole thing and I mean to take it—so now we
understand each other. That’s how I make my
money—by watching my chances. You’ll find
everything in legal order, and if you’re not out,
ejectment will follow. It’s too late to talk—l’ve
foreclosed ! ”
“ Why, I tell you any Jew would ”
A big uproar outside smothered the miserable
Belton’s discourse on Hebrew behavior.
They were having a fine time out there jesting
with the men up on the telegraph posts, and
shouting advice. It was as good as a football
match. The howling gale helped things by taking
people’s hats off and filling the street with dust.
Then the iron suddenly slipped off the ’wire, and
the crowd put up the roar it makes when a goal
is kicked —and looked out for itself. In the wind
the big flat missile accomplished, all the boomer-
rangy uncertainties that come to pass when a boy
shies a piece of tin sideways in <the air. It
skimmed along up the street on a high level, then
gracefully turned back again down the street on a
lower one. It went backwards and forwards, up
and down and across, examining the windows on
the different storeys as if to select one to smash.
At last it poised itself away up, and made up its
mind. “In there they’ll expect me least! Here
goes!”
It made a grand swoop downwards, lower,
lower, lower yet. and with a bit of a set back
before the final dart. Then as the gale resumed
with a fresh howl it shot up the passage of the
Vulture Assurance Buildings, and buried about a
foot of itself in the plaster wall at the end of it.
Gridlin would have been away in a few seconds,
but he wasn’t away then, and the sheet of iron had
to get through his neck before it stuck into the wall.
.His head and.his plug-hat simply rolled over on to
it and, lay there as if on a shelf, or like John the
Baptist’s head on the dish that has been so often
mentioned. And the mouth was still open, telling
Belton that further discussion was quite useless.
G. BRON.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
’ '»"»'• I I—'[Tfiiiai'MBHBWMWWWWWBMMBMIWTiriMMWCninMMBIIIOTMBXZIJM
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Other Models trom 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Shut Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING
S lets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
iHE PICNIC MODE .
5 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Mclb.
1
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
m
:82
■
Si
:■
'
1H
WMmmWi
..
'- M V!
JF V:
V
■ ■ ■ . m
' ' : V"' .
■
. . ;■:.
m
N,
g
: i ■
V;
I
PM :
&
:
You've no need to diet
IF YOU TAKE
gs
Owing; to its cleansing
action on tHe Kidneys
and other organs it is
a real Health tonic.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY,
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Rlflir’c gout an *>
JL9iu.ll RHEUMATIC
They Never
Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at j/iJ& 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT * Co., 229, Strand,
London, Eneland
L c 3»JL"Aji
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers: if. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
“ npiHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Seven
Prise
medals.
dfg
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works s Birminarh am, Ewglawd
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing,
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
sdf
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
gs
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY,
The Standard Remedy which has outlired the Centime*
SINGLETON’S EYE OIRTMENTj
In use since 156 C.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist, for its history— the book is free—or writs
S. GREEN. RIO, Lambeth Road. London Ene
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
iV- EACH POST FREE 1/2
t Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
'MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS 4 TOBACCO/Y/STS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty fa expectoration. Asthm»,Herron»Congh«,
CRtarrli, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INMAN CIQAB-
IV TES. fin'd htt all Chmixli.
SfcNTM
MD'U
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
In
48 hours.
Each Capsule heart the name E*
.(mr)
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature’s Gift.
TEAV?
V.A.V.
PORT.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 MoKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
“ S\N THE HOP ’’-Cheap Edition Now On
U Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S. W., 7d. : other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 Geogre
Street, Sydney.


Campers’ Requisites
from Perdriau’s—
dfg
Perdriau Ruck Sacks are made of water-
repellent Duck, and distribute the weight
evenly over the back of the wearer, 10/6
each.
Sleeping 1 Blanket, made from Llama
wool. Thick, warm and very light, 35/-.
Waterproof Covers for above, 35/-. Mat-
tress for same, 7/6.
Oilskins, 11/3 to 30/-. Sand Shoes, 2/9
to 6/6.
Air Pillows, cloth covered. 15in. x
10in., 9/6 ; lSin. x 13in., 10/6 : 18in. x
15in., 11/6.
Campers’ Tents, all sizes, from 6/6 each.
Flys, lined with serge and proofed with
black, oiled sheeting. Weight 4Alb., size
78in. x 36in., 9/9 each.
Write for our Summer Price List if you
cannot call.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
‘‘The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONES.
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices.
Dynamos . Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in .Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2£in. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HP HE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
J. Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, fid ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
fe ?■ f
Has a Grand Reputation.
Would it not be advisable
to install it at once, in pre-
ference to experimenting
with a doubtful machine ?
Send us particulars oi your SHED, and we will post you Plan and
Estimate of Cost of Installation Gratis.
POPULAR
OIL ENGINE.
Popular on Account of Its
Simplicity and Reliability.
Popular for Driving Shearing
Machines, Pumps, etc.
■
S 8
o
sdf
DALGETY O. COMPANY LIMITED, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
i
gs
A
E
G
dfg
-< - ••■'l
AMP
A SPECIALTY.
STAERSER & FISCHER.
40 Clarence St., Sydney. 172 William St., Melbourne.
w
Sji
DRINK
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
SUCTION
GAS PLANTS.
N.
263 George St., Sydney;
525 Collins St., Melbourne.
BATTERY REQUISITES.
FORGED STEEL SHOES and DIES.
Woven Wire and Punched Steel Battery Screens. Best Quality Silver Electro Amalgamating Plates.
?3M
CAM
BRAND
