

DEWAR’S-All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. 6. WATKINS SZ> CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors 7 Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
- EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2r vfi^r
Sole Agents for
Gardner=Duplex
Steam Pumps.
For Mining and General Service.
ree
ne
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOBART.
Jfcfcs
fiadley's Orient [joteL
PI ON EE "O
LEATHER BELTING *%
Guaranteed.
d. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
*
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
MAMS &
■BACON.
y-v
PERFECTLY.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSEN'S
unket
-
tablets
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPS/A
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prlxe Medals.
■o
L 4 "fib fy&t".
THE SECRET OF IT'S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
*
4
\
*
S
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
5
AL
Xft
mm
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOJ^
|Aroma > Strei\ ) ffthfrPurifo:
MALTHOID is the twentieth century
ready roofing. Its durability and last-
ing qualities have been demonstrated
by many years of service in all parts
of the world, under every condition of
weather and climate.
SB
n
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
MALTHUID is the roofing that gives
absolute satisfaction to everyone. It
is a perfect roofing— light, safe, clean,
water- and weather-proof, and at the
same time low in cost. Send for illus-
trated booklet—free.
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY .
SUCTION GAS ItNGINES
AND
GAS GENERATING PLANTS
•A3TNOXS ‘xatraxs* XXIX 09 ‘ QXI *V *3
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 1906,
against all makers .
i
*«tt
»••••-> 1
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send fob Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 § 34 CIarCHCC Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
WHISKY.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
The Bulletin
V01.31._N0. 1587.]
[Thursday, July 14, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TECHNICAL BOOKS
ON ALL SUBJECTS FROM THE ELEMENTARY hANDBOOI
TO THE COMPLETE TREATISE.
Send for List on the Subject you Require .
Aylmer-Small: Electrical Railroading, 12s 6d, p. 13s 3d.
Campbell: Manufacture of Iron and Steel, 255, p. 26s 3d.
Dunkerley’s Hydraulics, 2 vols., 255, posted 26s 3d.
Poster’s Ore and Stone Mining, 345, posted 35s 6d.
Hawkins’ Mechanical Dictionary, 15s, posted 15s lOd.
Hay A.: Electrical Distributing Net works, 12s6d,p. 13s 3d
Hubbard’s Waterworks Management, 21s, posted 225.
Karapetoff : Experimental ERc. Engineering, 30s, p. 31s6d
Longridge’s Gold Dredging, 27s 6d, posted 295.
Low’s The Dressing of Minerals, 365, posted 335.
Low’s Machine Drawing and Design', 7s 6d.
McAllister: Alternating Current Motors, 255, p. 265.
Notes on Building Construction, 4 vols., Vol. I, 12s 6d,
Vol. 11, 12s 6d, Vol, 111, 21s, Vol. IV, 16s.
Sloane’s Stand. Electrical Dictionary, 9s, posted 9s Bd.
Strickland’s Petrol Motors and Motor Cars, 21s, p. 22s 3d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Wasting
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Scott’s Emulsion perma-
nently cures wasting in all
its forms. This statement is
made because hundreds of
people have written to say
that they or theirs were cured
of wasting by Scott’s Emul-
sion. For example, Mr&. W.
Morrison wrote, 3rd March,
1909, from 10, Griffiths Street,
Manly, Sydney, N.S.W.:
"At two months, my daughter could not
retain nourishment and wasted away al-
most to skin and bone; we thought she
fdgfdgfdghfd
tvoitld die. After the first few
doses of Scott’s Emulsion
she teas decidedly better. Soon
she took food and rapidly
gained in weight and strength.
Now her flesh ts firm and
solid, and she is a bright,
healthy child. She likes
Scott’s and has aluays
taken it without diffia Uty.
This trademark was on the emulst m I
bought
If you ws)i to stop wasting,
and decide to buy Scott's
Emulsion, decide also to GET
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
You may be asked to buy
another emulsion and told it
is “just as good as Scott’s.”
Substitute emulsions can
only be sold on the reputa-
tion of Scott’s Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease
no matter the age of the patient and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Wasting if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited tor Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLbS, 80RE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon k e d
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
fdgfdghfd
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung-.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lung's.
iold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt _
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY
THE RED PAGE
Russian Literature
Of all the white races the Russians are
probably the least understood by Britishers
and Australians. The average islander pic-
tures Russia as a frozen country, with half
qf the population in prison and the bulk of
the remainder quivering in fear of it. The
typical Russian -of English caricature is a
fearsome creature with a knout, and in the
ordinary English novel about Russia the
peasants are barbarous or stupid, and the
aristocrats wantonly cruel. Kipling’s warn-
ing to his countrymen —‘ ‘ Make ye no truce
with Adam-zad, the Bear that walks like a
man ’’—fell on willing ears, and most
Britishers were jubilant when white Russia
was beaten by the yellow Jap. A cute jour-
nalist like Foster Fraser inspects Russia as an
ant might interview an elephant, and writes
it up in lurid colors. Bed Russia meets the
pre-conceived opinions of the crowd and is
popular—which is all that Boshter Phraser
cares about. Honest descriptive work, such
as that of Geoffrey Drage and Maurice Baring,
interests only a few.
The best interpreters of one people to
another are their own writers, and the truest
pictures of changing life are to be found in
literature. A large amount of French and
German literature is read in the original or
translations by English-speaking people, and
we are, therefore, comparatively well
acquainted with the French and Germans.
Their literature has had a beneficial in-
fluence upon English; Spanish, Italian and
Norwegian literature, less well known, have
also had some influence ; but Russian litera-
ture is hardly known at all and has had no
influence. Professor Tucker’s Foreign Debt
of English Literature (a valuable book) does
not mention Russia at all. There is a great
country with a literature of remarkable
power, which is almost a terra incognita to
English readers.
Of course, Tolstoy is a figure which still
looms large in Europe? But Tolstoy the
preacher is more widely known and better
understood than Tolstoy the novelist. We
have in English more than one version of his
principal novels, though their circulation (ex-
cepting The Kreutzer Sonata) has been small.
All Tourgeniev’s novels have been trans-
lated, and one or two books by other writers.
Gorky’s vivid sketches of the Russian poor
have reached a larger audience than any
other Russian fiction.
In the absence of any vital interest in
Russian literature, hardly any English critic
has attempted to interpret it for his readers.
In France and Germany, where the best part
of Russian fiction has a large circulation,
there is plenty of go< criticism. One of
the finest of these in' s, Melchior de
Vogue, author of I Russe, died the
other month. T ! have a sub-
stantial Anthology of Ru iterature, by
L. Wiener (Putnams, 1904 Kropotkin’s
lectures delivered in America . ere expanded
into Ideals and Realities in Russian Litera-
ture (Duckworth, 1905), a complete historical
account from the beginning to the end
of the nineteenth century. This is a
useful guide to the English student, but
is necessarily sketchy. Kropotkin, him-
self a Russian, takes a good deal as
granted, and does not give an explanation of
Russian character which would help to an
appreciation of some peculiar features of
their literature. Its value, he states in his
preface, is, firstly, its freshness and yoi*;h-
fulness.
It has, moreover, a sincerity and sinapbcity of
expression which renders it all the more attrac-
tive to the mind that has grown Mclc of literary
artificiality. And it has this distinctive feature,
that it brings witlnn the domain of Art—the
poem, the novel, the drama- nearly all those
questions, social and politics., which in Western
Europe and America, at least in our present
generation, are discussed chiefly in the political
writings of the day, but seldom in literature.
What Kropotkin did not do, Maurice Bar-
ing has tried to do in Landmarks in Russian
Literature (Methuen, 65.). It is the fourth
of Baring’s books about Russia, and, save
for some exaggerations and faults of style,
it is a work of fine sympathetic criticism.
He treats only of Tolstoy, Dostoievsky
Tourgeniev, Gogol and Tchekov; but
through these he conveys a very clear im-
pression of the Russian people ; and for that
reason alone his book is a valuable one.
Russians, in his opinion, are never hypo-
crites. They are, therefore, impatient of
cant and convention.
They do not in the least mind openly confessing
things' of which people in other countries are
ashamed;, they do not mind admitting to dis-
honesty, immorality or cowardice if they happen
to feel that they are saturated with these defects.
They feel that their fellow creatures will not
think the worse of them on this account, because
they know that their fellow creatures will under-
stand.
The penal code is the most lenient in
Europe ; but the laws are often over-ridden
by arbitrary officials, and political offences
are punished ruthlessly. Because there has
been no open political life the best minds of
Russia have put their ideals and emotions
into song and story. Russia is, politically,
far behind other European countries ; but a
new era is beginning, and one of the most
startling phenomena is the dismissal of
corrupt officials.
Baring finds more humanity and goodness
in Russia than anywhere, and says that the
expression of it in their literature is the
greatest contribution which Russians have
made to the history of the world.
One notices in Russian literature that authors
are not content with showing us the redeeming
points of a merely bad character—that is to say, of
a man fundamentally good, but who indulges in
vice or in crime ; they will take pleasure in show-
ing you the redeeming points of a character which,
at first sight, appears to be radically mean and
utterly despicable. The aim of these authors
seems to be to insist that, just as nobody is indis-
pensable, so nobody is superfluous.
The outstanding feature of Russian litera-
ture is its realism ; not naturalism, but the
artistic presentation of men and things as
they really are. Romanticism has never flour-
ished there, save for a brief time under the
influence of Byron.
No Russian Romantic poet would have ever
tried to reach thedim pinnaelesof Shelley’s specu-
lative cities, nor have uttered a wild cry of revolt
such as Musset’s “ Rolla.” But what the Russian
poets did do, and what they did in a manner
which gives them a unique place in the history
of the world’s literature, was, to extract poetry
from the daily life they saw around them, and to
express it in forms of incomparable beauty.
The latter statement must be taken on trust.
Elsewhere Baring’s enthusiasm carries him
into raptures which spoil a good case. Dos-
toievsky, for ■ instance, who receives the
fullest appreciation ever accorded to him in
English, is rated beyond his merits. Baring
does not hold him up as the greatest
of Russian writers, but as the writer with
rarest gifts ; a man who had loved and suf-
fered much, and whose work is surcharged
with love and pity.
The two great columns in his temple of
Russian literature are Tolstoy and Dostoiev-
sky. He says that Tourgeniev is not regarded
so highly by Russians now as he used to be,
and rightly so. Tourgeniev may not be so
powerful as Dostoievsky, but he seems (to
one who knows them only by translations) a
finer artist, a keen satirist and an excellent
portrayer of sex emotions. He was a pes-
simist, like all the great Russians, but also
a lover of mankind. There are two articles
on Tourgeniev in the June Fortnightly. In
one of these the pessimism of Russian
writers is attributed to their fatalistic tem-
perament. The people of whom they write
are fatalists, oppressed by huge and
gloomy surroundings and the want of
political power. Tourgeniev, in one of his
essays, held that all men belong to one or
the other of two types —Hamlet and Don
Quixote, the sceptical dreamer who does
nothing and the idealist who does things,
however foolish. Baring finds two leading
types in Russian character. They are sym-
bolised in the folk tales, one by Ivan the Fool,
who with his simplicity outwitted the wise-
acres ; and t!he other by Lucifer, the fallen
angel of stubborn and obdurate pride. Dos-
toievsky he regards as the incarnation of Ivan,
the ideal which Tolstoy in mid-career decided
to follow. He looks upon Tolstoy the man
as the incarnation of the Lucifer type, and
quotes Merejkowski’s searching criticism—
Tolstoy, the Man and the Artist —“ he never
loved anybody, not even himself.”
The greatest of Russian humorists is
Gogol, whose satirical comedy, The Inspector
General, is still played regularly in Russia,
and has been translated into English. His
early stpries are a blend of broad farce and
poetical fancy, and his unfinished master-
piece—Dead Souls —while true to life, is full
of comic situations and characters. Gogol
resembles Dickens in representing the cheer-
fulness and good nature of the man in the
street.
Dickens, in translation, is m uch appreciated
bv the Russians, and minor English humor-
ists down to Jerome and Jacobs are on sale
at every railway station. The best of English
literature is available in Russian, and Paradise
Lost, which is dead to all but poetry lovers
. in its native land, has been translated into
simple prose and sold in cheap editions with
colored pictures all over Russia. It is “ greed-
ily read by the peasants, who have no idea
that it is a poem, but enjoy it as a tale of
fantastic adventure and miraculous events.”
The peasants corroborate Poe’s theory that
an epic is no poem.
The poetry of Russia will not stand trans-
lation, but its fiction will; and Maurice
Baring has liberally illustrated his criticism
with passages from the tales referred to by
him. We think it would have been better
if he had considered Tchekov with Gorky,
who is a bigger landmark, Merejkowski,
Andreev and prose writers of the younger
school who are not mentioned. His book,
however, should induce many readers to
acquaint themselves with the great works
of Russian fiction, and will help to a better
understanding of the Russian people.
William J. Locke
Locke is one of the small band of English
novelists whose work is distinguished in
style and progressive in quality. He is not
burdened with any other purpose than the
creation of romantic character in a present-
day environment. He has humor, and
invents good plots ; and a new book of his is
to be counted upon as a source of pleasure.
Locke was born at Georgetown, British
Guiana, on the 20th March, 1863, and went
to England at the age of three. Six years
afterwards he joined his father in Trinidad,
and remained there for nine years. In 1881
he entered St. John’s College, Cambridge.
After taking the B.A. degree he went over
to France, where he studied life and litera-
ture at leisure for some years. Then, find-
ing it necessary to earn his own living, he
returned to England and got a post as
teacher of mathematics in a provincial
school. He disliked the job ; but spent his
spare time in learning languages and writing
for newspapers.
His first published novel, At the (rate of
Samaria, appeared in 1894, and was reason-
ably successful. At the same time, he
obtained the position of secretary to the In-
stitute of British Architects, and probably
holds it still, although he has turned out
many profitable novels since then. Derelicts
(1897) had a large circulation. It is a good
melodramatic story, which closed on a
strong note of pathos. The principal figures
are carefully drawn ; but not remarkable.
Jimmy Padgate, the painter in Where Love
Is, was his first striking success in the de-
lineation of male character. His women
have always been above the ordinary, and in
I'he Morals of Marcus he went several steps
upward in creating Carlotta. Marcus him-
self is a subtler character study than any
predecessor, and the story has a finer humor
and a richer flavor of romance than were
generally found in the fiction of the last ten
years. The Beloved Vagabond is still better
—a masterpiece in fiction of the second-
class. Septimus did not come up to the
same standard ; but this year he has given
us Simon the Jester (Sydney Book Club),
which is worthy to rank with Marcus and
Thn Vagabond.
Simon de Gex, M.P., like Democritus, is
a laughing philosopher. A spoilt darling of
fortune, with the ball at his feet, he is sud-
denly condemned to death by his doctor.
An obscure disease will certainly carry him
off in six months, and for the best way to
dispose of that brief time he sought guidance
from the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius.
He finds this passage suggestive :
Let Death surprise me when it will and where
it will, I may be eumoiros or a happy man never-
theless. For he is a happy man who in his life-
time dealeth unto himself the happy lot and
portion . . . good inclinations of the soul, good
desires and good actions.
So Simon decides upon eumoiriety, which is
a sort of ethical tiddlehiety, and enters
upon the part of a light-hearted fairy god-
father, scattering his fortune and under-
taking quixotic missions.
He has a secretary, Dale Kynnersley, who
has fallen a victim to the charms of Lola
Brandt, a lady well known to the public in
connection with a performing horse. Per-
haps Locke used as a model the seductive
Ada Menken, that “ Mazeppa ” of the
’sixties who wrote verses and attracted
Swinburne' amongst many others. Lola has
the feline grace and sensuous charm of Car-
lotta, and, to use her own words, no more
education than a tinker’s dog, Kynnersley’s
mother urges Simon to save Dale from this
social calamity, and in trying to achieve a
good action he becomes entangled in affairs
that are far from eumoirious. Surprisingly
relieved of his malady by an operation, he
returns to life with a sense of its gravity,
and awakens to a passionate love he had
never before experienced.
In spite of the remarkable transformation,
Simon is a believable character ; that is, he
is true to the law of his own nature. The
two women who influence him are finely-
contrasted types, and the . minor characters
are skilfully filled in. The bright, clever
style is Locke’s best, and the book is one
that ban be recommended without reserva-
Bernard Shaw as Artist-Philosopher, an
exposition of Shavianism by Renee M.
Deacon (A. C. Fifield, Is. net), will be use-
ful to anyone who wishes to get up Shaw
and his works hurriedly for afternoon-tea
talk. Shaw has given liberal first aid to
critics and students in his prefaces, and
further illumination has already been pro-
vided by. Holbrook Jackson, Chesterton and
others. Of course, Shaw, as seen through
the gorgeous temperament of Chesterton, is
a somewhat different person to the Shaw of
Renee Deacon.
It shall be said of Bernard Shaw that he so
hungered for the infinite goodness of God that he
dedicated his life to man’s attainment thereto
If I were asked to give the main tenet of Bernard
Shaw’s philosophy, I should at once reply—“the
sanctity of life.” . . . We are here at the behest of
the Life Force to preserve and enhance to the
fullest possible extent the flame of divinity which
has been entrusted to our care. . . . The mission
of art in the world is to produce beauty and truth
in such guise as to stimulate and engender fresh
life in the beholder. }
Renee Deacon points out that in Shaw s
plays the essential conflict is within the souls
of men.
Whereas the older plays were full of conflicts
between men’s bodies, so the modern plays are
full of conflicts between men’s souls. If this were
fully realised we should hear less nonsense about
the absence of action in Shaw’s plays. There is
plenty of action—but it is spiritual action, not
physical; and the critics have not yet become
accustomed to the change.
This clear little exposition is supported by
free quotations from the published plays, and
also from three plays which have been acted
but not yet published— The Doctor s Duem-
ma, Getting Married, and The Shewing-up of
Blanco Posnet.
♦-
In France, the Minister for War has ap-
pointed a committee to organise a competi-
tion for * ‘ Songs suitable to be sung by
soldiers on the march and in barracks or
camp.” The bandmaster of the Garde Rd-
publicaine will preside over the committee,
which includes several well-known song-
writers. This is a more hopeful sort of
committee than the one appointed by Lyne
to award the prize for an ode to Australia.
But time was when France did not need to
offer a prize in order to stimulate the
patriotic song-writer.
♦ —
A translation of Rostand’s Chantecler, by Ger-
trude Hall, begins in Hampton s Magazine for
June. . She has wisely chosen prose for the body
of the play, but the songs are in fair verse. An-
other translation by Louis Parker is to be pub-
lished in book form shortly.


SS!
Jl
ace
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
Ready-to-Wear Clothing
Our Own
Make.
READY-TO-WEAR OVERCOATS.
f
No. 1.
No. 2.
No. 3.
No. I—SMART CHESTERFIELD, Single-breasted, with vertical or patch pockets, circu-
lar skirt or vent in hack, as desired, ticket pocket, double-stitched edges, lined
throughout or foreparts only lined, and stitched back cuffs. In light and dark Grey
Cheviot Tweed, Navy or Fawn Melton Cloth. Prices 25/-, 27/6, 30/-
No. 2— STYLISH CHESTERFIELD, Single-Breasted, with cross pockets, stitched back
cuffs, and lined throughout. This coat can be had in the newest shades of Brown,
Grey and Green Fancy Stripe Tweed. Price 32/6.
No. 3— SMART CITY CHESTERFIELD, Single-Breasted, cross pockets, ticket pocket,
circular skirt or vent in back, double stitched throughout. Made in Fancy Stripe
and Check Tweeds, also in Grey, Navy and Brown Melton Cloth. Price 30/-
A STYLISHLY-CUT, WELL-
MADE OVERCOAT denotes the
WELL-GROOMED Man, there-
fore the magnificent SELEC-
TION of Men's OVERCOATS
we offer present PARTICULAR
ATTRACTIONS to men of taste.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
READY-TO-WEAR CHESTER-
FIELD OVERCOATS are CUT
in the NEW Style, giving plenty
of CHEST room and ARM room.
The MATERIALS in every case
are the BEST, and all the
SEASON'S favorite Shades are
included in Meltons, Cheviots,
Vicunas and Scotch Tweeds.
EVERY OVERCOAT is made
by the highest skilled labor in
our own WORKROOMS, and
made on a plan to meet the
REQUIREMENTS of the Aus-
tralian Climate. OUR OVER-
COATS are COSY and COM-
FORTABLE, not giving the
wearer TOO MUCH WEIGHT to
carry. Absolute Economy is
assured by
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
READY-TO-WEAR OVERCOATS.
K A
il
t&affl 2
m
mm
No. 4.
■ I m
No. 5.
No. 6.
No. 4-
No. 5
No. 6
DOUBLE-BREASTED ULSTER, patch pockets, extra deep collar, throat strap,
strap cuffs, and lined throughout. This Warm Winter Ulster can be had in Check
Tweed 4 Drown Beaver, or Rainproof Heavy Fancy
DOUBLE-BREASTED MOTOR COAT, extra deep collar, cross pockets, ticket
pocket, strap cuffs and Tweed lined. Made in Cheviot Tweed, Blue Venetian and
Heavy Irish Tweeds. Prices SO/-, 55/= and 70/=
-SINGLE-BREASTED, SMART, ROOiMY CHESTERFIELD, vent at back,
cross pockets and lined throughout. Made in Dark Grey and Fawn Rainproof
I weed. Price 45/= ;
MEN’S SAC SUITS.
Our Ready-to-Wear Sac Suits for Men conform to the
following specifications:—
COAT : Round or square cut, padded shoulders, roll,
buttoned cuffs, stiffened front, flap pockets, low
or medium roll, as desired.
VEST: High cut, four pockets, single-breasted.
TROUSERS : Side or cross pockets, raised seams.
Dark Grey and Brown Stripe Tweed. Sizes 4to 7.
Price 30/-
English Hairline Tweed. Sizes 3 to 7, 44 to 84. Price
32/6.
Grey and Fawn Check Cheviot Tweed. Sizes 4 to 6.
Price 35/=
Sergerette, Light and Dark Grey, Pawn and Brown. Sizes
3t07,4£ to 7£. Price 37/6.
Sergerette, Light and Dark Grey, Fawn and Brown. Sizes
4J to 9£. Price 40/=
Sergerette, Light and Dark Grey, Heavy Weight. Sizes
4j to 9J. Price 42/6.
West of England Worsted, Fancy Check, Grey and Fawn,
with vent in back, or plain back. Sizes 44 to 64, 4to
Price 42/-
West of England Worsted, Grey, Green and Brown
Stripe, with vent in back, or plain. Sizes 4to 7. Price
45/=
Sergerette, Light and Dark Grey, Heavy Weight. Sizes 3
to 7, 4{ to 9£. Price 45/-
Blarney Tweed, Heavy Weight, Grey and Brown Mixtures.
Sizes 4t07,4J to 9J. Price 45/=
Homespun Tweed, Neat Checks; also Self, Grey and
Fawn. Sizes 4to 7. Price 45/=
West of England Tweed, Grey and Brown Check Designs
with vent in back, or plain. Sizes 4to 7. Price 50/= ’
West of England Tweeds. Grey, Green, Brown and Fawn
Stripes, with vent in back, or plain. Sizes 4 to 7
Price 52/6.
JUVENILE OVERCOATS.
Ifgsgsg
g||||||
No. 7.
No. 8.
m
%
No. 9.
No. 7— RALEIGH OVERCOAT, Double-breasted, full cut skirt, yilt or plain
buttons. Sizes oto 4. In Fancy Tweed, 10/6, 12/6. 13/6 16/6 In
Navy Serge, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6. ' ' 1
No. 8 BOY’S CHESTERFIELD OVERCOAT, padded shoulders, raised shoulder
points, side pockets, full skirt, or skirt with vent, as desired. Sizes 7to 12
In Fancy Tweeds, 12/6 to 21/-
No. 9— BOY’S CHESTERFIELD OVERCOAT, padded shoulders, raised shoulder
points, full cut, roomy skirt, side pockets. Sizes 4to 10. In Fancy Tweed
12/6 to 25/= ’
Men’s Seasonable Footwear.
GLACE KID LACE-UPS.
Medium Toes, Sewn, 7/6.'
Goloshed Toes, Sewn, 8/11.
Medium Toes, Fair-stitched, 11/6.
Linen Lined, Yale Toes, 13/9.
Medium Toes, Welted, 15/=
Wlde Toes, no Caps, easy fitting, 12/3.
Medium Toes, good make. Welts, 16/9.
Medium Toes, good make, Welts, 17/9.
Full Toes, Self Cap. 19/11.
Footform Shape, High Grade, 22/6.
BOX CALF LACE-UPS.
Box Calf Balmorals, two shapes, 9/=
Derby Lace-ups, Full Round Toes, Welted, 12/6, 13/9.
Square Toes, Welted. 13/6.
Yale Toes, Welted, 13/9.
Yale Toes, Patent Cap, Welted, 14/6.
Stout Soles, Leather Lined, Footform Toe, 15/3.
Good Quality Box Calf Lace-ups, 16/9.
Stout Soles, Medium Toes, 18/9.
Square Toes, 19/9.
Bostock’s, Round Toes, 23/6.
Mineralised, Waterproof**;? ’
High Legs, Giant HooksiMt JliwsMDrtB to carrv thong lace,
a magnificent lB/9.
MEN’S FASH' li-yffi...- fjEji(rWEAR.
Black Willow Derby ( I fJs, Latest American Shape,
a high-class product'B&fi d -
Glace Kid Button BoqMifpum Toes, High Grade, 18/6.
Tan Willow Calf Lacd tUfps. Square Toes, 12/6.
Dark Tan Calf Lace-ups, Yale Toes, 13/6.
Tan Willow Lace-ups, Lighter Shade, Medium Toes, up-
to-date, 14/=
X an billow Derby Lace-ups, Footform Toes, 14/6.
1 an WiHow Derby Lace-ups, Footform, Full Welts, 22/6.
Tweed Elastic Sides, Pegged Soles, 6/11.
BOYS’ SAILOR SUITS.
No. 13.
No. 14.
No. 15.
No. 13— THE SAILOR SUIT, Blouse and Knickers, open or closed fronts. Sizes oto 12.
In Fancy Tweed, 8/6 to 12/= In Navy Serge, 8/6 to 15/6.
No. 14— THE ROYAL TAR or MAN=O’=WAR SUIT, sailor shape, Long Trousers, fly
front or full falls, complete with bib, collar, lanyard and whistle. Sizes oto 12.
In Navy Serge, 18/6, 20/=
No. 15 — THE NAUTICAL SUIT, Blouse and Knickers, open or closed fronts. Sizes oto
12. In Navy Serge, 8/6 to 15/6. In Fancy Tweed, 8/6 to 12/=
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Ready-to-Wear CLOTHING
for MEN is made of the
FINEST TWEEDS, WOR-
STEDS and SERGES that
come to Australia, and
will STAND the test of
long Service. The cut,
STYLE and FINISH denote
the SKILL of the EXPERTS
employed in our OWN
FACTORY.
The ENORMOUS
VARIETY we offer presents
to our PATRONS the
WIDEST CHOICE, and a
PERFECT FIT is assured
by reason of the big
ASSORTMENT of sizes.
SMART SUITS FOR BOYS.
gfdgh
Iv'o. 11.
* tr •
“■N
No. 12.
No. 10— BOY’S RUGBY SUIT, three Garments, viz., Coat, Vest and Knickers, well cut
?oL fin i, s ., ’ Pi? 1 " or bloomer knickers, as desired. Sizes 7to 1. In Fancv Tweed
$H\ 27/6 > 30/ =’ 32/6 - In N - y ®W:
No. 11— BOY’S NORFOLK SUIT, can be had open front as shown, or, button high to
plain or bloomer knickers, as desired. Sizes 4to 13. In Fancy Tweed 0/6
if,6, 2i1*’22%%\f 6 '2i,± h ' 25h ' 27/6 ‘ ,n Navy Serge ufd M/d ’IS;
No. 12— BOY’S COSSACK SUIT, three garments, viz., Coat, Vest and Knickers Vest
open front, plain or bloomer knickers. Sizes 7to 1. In Fancv Tweed 18/6 21/
2|/6; 24/=, 26/=, 27/6, 30/=, 32/6. In Navy Serge, 18/Vli
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
BricKneld Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
V ' J ' ... / ■ „ *
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism,
and
Clairvoyance
An Illustrated
Guide for the Amateur,
describing the various
methods adopted by-
professors botli before
and after Mesmer, and
showing- how the mystic
power may be developed.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book op Coin Tiucks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1 /3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
m
%
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying' and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the fin (re re (see
illusi ration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Flve Card
Tridk. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d.; post
free, Bd.
The A rove Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederat es ami no special skill), post free any
with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of anv State will do.
“ t free ues 201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
COUGHS
■ Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLIS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
and Chemists.
Wholesale Ajrents for Victoria; DUHRUEIM & SA| tiSSURv, Melbourne.
fdghfdgh
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, HSadache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gc-ut
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
1
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. for Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiols.
HAS MONET TO LEND
i Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Securit
©t Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus
tralian States or New Zealand gl*F~ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, withofit notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Adrian Knox. E*q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 9 Grand Prize St Louis 1904
KAIODERMAH
PREPARATIONS
F. WOLFF & SOflN, Karlsruhe ana London
Knlotfermn Jelly
prepared with g lycerine Si honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable * efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Ralotfermn Song
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap, the leading soap for softening % improving the skin.
Kalodermn Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder.
Kdlotferma Shaping Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
n refined luxury at a popular price. jcT JcT JcT JcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
CONGO
NEVER
LE/IK
ROOFING
TDLIABLE, durable, easily laid, and of such water-
proof qualities that it equals rubber itself in keeping
out water—that’s Congo.
Storms do not affect it, neither does heat nor cold.
Congo doesn’t dry out or rot out.
Every roll runs uniform throughout, with smooth,
even edges.
Nails, caps and cement free in center of each roll.
Congo gives maximum service with minimum care.
It’s worth while writing for a free sample.
C. C. DELMAR, Box 1740, C.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., Australasian
Representative for “CONGO.”
NOYES JROS., Sydney & Melbourne ; MILLARS'KARRI &JAKRAH
CO. LTD., Perth ; HARROLO COLTON & CO. LTD., Adela.de.
Congo Damp Coarse for protecting foundation wall* against dame.
‘Sample free.
llii
iliililHli
II
FOR AN/EMIA or DEBILITY
or for the Convalescent Invalid, or those who suffer from Poor Sleep or
Appetite, Indigestion, Constipation, Biliousness, Weakness, or Nerve Breakdown.
A WELL-KNOWN NURSE DECLARES.
It is in the siok-room where a good nerve, strength-recuperating medicine is required after
severe attacks of wasting illness, fever, accident, etc., to assist in regaining health. Nurse
Jamieson, for many years of various nursing hospital staffs and late of the well-known Coast
Hospital, Sydney, whose portrait appears here, declares :
“ CLEMENTS TONIC Ld.
“ L have seen hospital life in many phases, and have had
considerable study of convalescent cases after severe attacks
Fever, Diphtheria,
Nervous - breakdown
worries, Insomnia or
often seen the direc'
Tonic in the s <
suited in complet
nerve force,
and perfect rest,
undoubtedly tin
convalescent inva
who may be out oi \
indigestion, anaemia, ■
liver, weak nerves,
constipation. I know
fdghfd
Accidents, Casualties,
through business
! ntemperance. I have
result of Clements
eases, which has re-
restor ation of
healthy appetite,
Clements Tonic is
medicine for the
lid as well as those
sorts, or victims to
biliousness, sluggish
broken rest or
many professional
experts recommend it because it can be relied on.
“Faithfully yours, ( Signed) NURSE JAMIESON.”
For the cure of lassitude, physical breakdown, anaemia or bloodlessness in
women hysteria or melancholia", debility in men or lack of vital force, indiges-
tion flatulence, biliousness, sick headache, palpitation, constipation, or irregular
kidney action, no medicine equal Clements Tonic, because it keeps the bowels
regular, the stomach healthy, and the nerve strong. All chemists and stores
sell it Send for it. It lengthens life and keeps disease away. In fact,
according to many medical authorities, it is lasting health in a new guise.


Cerebos
s&ir
does not deterio-
rate —it is always
the same dainty,
free-running salt.
Agents—Harrison &• Attwood, Sydney.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
ghfdghfd
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to an one, on ten days' approval, oar
highest grade MEAD
Co ven try f iyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ pri es.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guarauteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Lar e » »-oflt»
easily made. Write u once, using efficient j ost ’ge,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en Bample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO.. »»380 LIVERPOOL
JAS. J. GILTWA , Agent,
157 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BLED TO DEATH
■ ♦
NOBODY KNEW FIRST-AID.
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.
In the absence of the knowledge of the prin-
ciples of first-aid by those about him, Thomas
Howland, farmer, 50 years of age, bled to death
to-day at his home, four miles from Dimboola.
Howland knocked an ulcerous sore and burst a
varicose vein near the ankle. His daughter
attempted .to stanch the bleeding by applying
flour, but this had no effect, and he died within
10 minutes.
The above news item will serve to show how fallacious
is the opinion held by many sufferers from Varicose
Veins that they are “ really not dangerous.”
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, or have a relation or
friend who does, and if the veins should burst, would you
know what to do ? Let us send you an illustrated free
book describing Varicose Veins in all their forms, the
methods to adopt in bandaging, and the course to pursue
if they should burst. This book also fully describes the
Vecsey Method of treating and curing Varicose Veins
without operations.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of
Treatment comes as a great boon. Previous to its dis-
covery no painless, permanent palliative was known.
It cures the veins absolutely, and once cured they do
not return.
Do not failto send for our free book, which gives full
information and particulars. Post free to any address
upon receipt of 2d. stamp. Call for free advice.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney.
Take Lift to Second Floor.
[606
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PATLNTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors' Uuidk. Established 187
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired o wearing: useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
{jiving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spile ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirel - new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS T~IAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
Bte 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Freo
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
4 Policy for the (jom.vioxwka., . h
A Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs o^d
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
mm
j
For Chilean’s Coughs and Colds
There is no better remedy for Children’s
Coughs and Colds than
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
It does them as much good
as it does the older folk.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
Ask for Bonmngtons’s, and insist on getting it. It is dangerous to experiment
when you can get a remedy that has stood the test for over 45 years.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. Gd.
[2
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORCyS Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Halted milk
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples: 82 Pitt St.. Sydney, N.S.W,
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK CO.
JniJ] Uttrfd/'^
VMf.
i
Aturw'^jo/]
Hdn\Jl/L
J
Latest Evolution of Modern pnarmacy
“ GOLCRYST ” is a Combination of
Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger.
crystals dissolve in water, forming
a Blood-Purifying and Rheumatism-Curing
Aperient Medicine.
SOLD IN 3d., 6d. and Is. PACKETS.
Write for Free Sample to the Proprietors,
RGCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., MELBOURNE.
BARROWS
73
English Portable Engines
«{;i
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS:
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
[SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONQREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
A LIGHT TREAD
When you wear Wood-Milne
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly —your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOOD-MILNE
RUBBER HEELS
are made in Britain, from new,
resilient rubber: they enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give
a surprising feeling of buoyancy
and vigour.
Look for the name Wood-Milne on
every heel, and refuse all imi ations.
IRP MARK
Underwear
Hade in
England
MARK
3QVUJ.
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the ‘‘BIRD MARK” Merino- and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
l. & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ ME IN3 UNDERWEAR
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twenty-one.
Sudden silence drapes the lane’s
Rayless, shuttered window-panes,
Brick Lane Sarah died to-day . . .
“ Twenty-one,” the gossips say.
Twenty-one and lying dead !
Tw r enty -one and six years wed !
Twenty-one and mother of
Five small babes, ye gods of love !
“ Done to death!” the gossips say—
Bill the Loafer slinks away,
Sullen-faced, to find his drear
Nirvana in the pot-house beer.
All her life one of a crowd
Bitter-hearted, sullen-browed,
Living hob and nob with sin,
Hell without and Hell within !
She, maybe, once strove to climb
Greater heights to the sublime,
But her feet, by some mischance,
Dragged the weight of circumstance ;
Prayed for wings to soar and soar,
Until earth’s diminished roar
And life’s dauntless, deep unrest
Aching heart no more distressed.
“ Life is hard ! ” she said. Alas,
Life is hard to all her class ;
Harder than the rich folk guess,
Hard, relentless, merciless !
Cursed asleep and cursed awake,
With a blow her heart did break ;
Evil dreams are now at rest,
Flowers of Peace lie on her breast.
Not a plume nor funeral-pall—
Hearse and coffin, that is all !
She will sleep as tranquilly
In the pauper cemet’ry.
Where may sinners find sweet rest,
Are dark Marah’s waters blessed,
Doth Astarte in the skies
Still sing lovers’ litanies?
To the: gods for comforting
Brick Lane Sarah’s soul shall wing ;
Twenty-one ; she died to-day . . .
“ Done to death ! ” the gossips say !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
A Song of Slump.
In moments of rapture seraphic,
When you were entangled with me;
In days that were lustrous and Sapphic,
In nights that were glad by the sea ;
In hours that were scarlet with passion—
(You were mine then to have and to hold)
Dear girl, whom I squandered much cash on.
Did you think you could ever grow cold ?
Your love was a stair unto Heaven
Lord knows I was willing to climb ;
Like dynamos coupled and driven,
Our.hearts flashed their love-sparks sublime !
Your soul was my fountain of pleasure—
And I was your master and king ;
Dear girl, whom I held as a treasure,
Did you guess that our joy could take wing ?
Your eyes that were mystic enthrallments—
Your heart that o’er-bubbled with glee
(From loves that are bought in instalments,
Dear love, keep us happily free !) ;
Your arms that were lovely and slender,
Your cheek that was warm as a rose ;
Dear girl, did you fancy such splendor
Could wear—like your open-work hose ?
Could wear like your skirts and your stockings—
Dear stockings—they tore into holes ;
Your frills and your fixtures and frockings—
Your shoes and their stair-tapping soles?
Your sweetness I inwardly cherish,
Your youthfulness, laughter and grace ;
Dear girl, did you think bliss could perish,
And tumble head-first into space?
Your views and desires and opinions—
The thoughts that yon whispered to me,
When we dwelt in those shining dominions
Which front to a crystalline sea !
Your sighs and your murmurs at parting—
Your relatives blasted and cursed ;
Dear girl, in the days of sweethearting
Did you fear that our bubble would burst?
Your month that was gladly uplifted—
Your lips with their tingle and sting;
Dear joys that we sorted and sifted
In days of the yester-year’s Spring !
Your love that was pure as a chalice,
Your faith that was perfect and whole ;
Dear girl, did you fancy that malice
Could ever abide in your soul ?
Ah, well ! When I think of the hansoms
I chartered in glad days of yore?
When I think of the elose-srnittered transoms
And the key that was turned in the door !
When I count up the raptures and kisses—
Those treasures transcending all price;
Dear girl, may I pay for those blisses
With one little bit of advice?
In moments of rapture seraphic
When you with some subsequent He
In hours that are lustrous and Sapphic
Are joy ful o' nights by the sea ;
In days that may shimmer with passion—
’Mid joys that might waken the dead ,
Dear girl , whom I splashed all my cash on,
Don t go and catch cold in the head.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
*■*<.< • .<«■ T 5
V ' V V‘ v *r V.* v Tt »
BUsI&A-’V I •»• V- * A i> V *
<e&
CLOSED AS COUCH.
m.
as art
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
hew
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. • in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEYc
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... 6d
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
If You Want a
Good Vehicle,
read this w
At the late Royal Agricultural Show
W. Dwyer’s Buggies and Sulkies
WERE AWARDED
10 FIRST PRIZES, 2 SPECIAL PRIZES, 2 GOLD
MEDALS, 1 SECOND PRIZE.
This is sure proof of their excellent qualities.
Factories ... - WOLLONGONG and SYDNBY
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
330 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms thm
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner* of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane, General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street—Local Director: A. MESTON.
0
OjAEOjk
The Watch of
Matchless Merit
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy”—accuracy an mak-
ing the various parts—accuracy in assembl-
ing them—and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
A.BDUJLJUS
CIGARETTES.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN, VIRGINIAN.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Wholesale Agents for Australia.
HEALTH BEFORE WEALTH
Beware of Colds, Chills and Winter Ailments.
Used in
Hospitals
and
Nursing
Homes
Throughout
the
World.
CYiiiik
h
ii*
Home
'ons
2?f!
■■V,'
A
•% #iv* * •
*/••',• •*«
snv*: •
am
5^
There are Millions
of little corpuscles like soldiers fighting for you in your blood, and if they are well fed and
kept healthy will destroy that horde of germ enemies that attack you every moment. This
is a proven fact, and medical men practise their profession with strict regard to disease being
produced through the action of germs in the system. It is also well known to science that
Healthy Blood is in itself a germ-killing power. Now, Wincarnis is the one right thing that
ailing men and women have need of to fortify and create pure red rich blood. Its tonic
properties, its easy assimilating character, its exhilarating and strengthening effects proclaim
it THE WINE OF LIFE. Beware of chills and colds—take Wincarnis now, and it will
protect and guard you from Influenza, Bronchitis and Pneumonia.
Wincarnis
Test It, and Prove for Yourself its Wonderful
Life-Giving and Recuperative Properties.
Thousands of Doctors consistently recommend
Wincarnis*
Wincarnis can be obtained from any Wine
Merchant, Licensed Chemist or Grocer* *
Australia and New Zealand Depot: 5 and 7 Barrack Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
COLEMAN & CO. LTD., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENG.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31. No. 1587.
THURSDAY, JULY 14, 1910.
Price 6d.
THE STATELY HOMES OF ENGLAND.
Johnson has threatened, among other deeds, to invest his money in land in England, and become a country squire.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published bv William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES s Business,- 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City,
TERMS 'TO SIT JiSCTI JB K US.
(ill Advance, Only)
Per A'unuiji £l6 0
Half-year/ f / ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By se.ndiiui direct, (o Tim BuLLK'i'iN O/llee Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tint Bullktin posted
regularly to you every -week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters,
Correspondents to Tint Bullktin would, oblige the paver
fund, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
■methods of address.
Business letters ( with regard, to subscript ions, .advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
it is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused • by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyrinht by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles. Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
twt columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Thu Bullktin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bat no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each ‘mail, from Messrs. Gordon aiul
Gotch, Liulgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 liigh Ilolborn, London. ICC.
South Africa. —The Central Sews Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — JsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency ,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., llong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bullktin metal advertising plates.size tiiin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TTuT^zzlZeZztfi.
THURSDAY, JULY 14, 1 1 J10.
FEDERAL NOTES.
A casual remark made by that Federal Minister
who wears the large hat and says “ Brother,”
conveyed the first clear and definite hint that the
proceeds of the Federal note issue, apart from the
necessary gold reserve, may be devoted to public
works. Since then the lamentable report has
gained ground, and now it seems to meet with
general acceptance. It is alleged that the note
issue, which may possibly run to £7,000,000, will
be secured by a gold reserve of 25 per cent, or a
little more (say, ' perhaps, £2,000,000), and the
other £5,000,000, or whatever the amount may be,
is apparently to be used for railway construction
or city building. The story goes, however, that
Treasury bills will be authorised for an amount
equal to the total of the uncovered notes, and
in case of any sudden extra demand the sale
of these will enable the Government to meet its
obligations. Of course, as one Sydney daily
gloomily pointed out, the time when an extra
large reserve is needed is also likely to be a time
when nobody here will have much spare cash, or
at least much cash that he is willing to lock up in
alow-interest-bearing security. The bills on such
an occasion may fetch a good price outside Aus-
tralia—in someplace where there doesn’t happen
to be a financial crisis—but the sort of crisis that
it is proposed to provide against is apt to be a
very sudden variety, and places outside area long
way off. The nearest outside place which has any
money worth mentioning is 1300 miles away,
and it is a small place with little
spare cash, and will probably have its
own crisis on hand when we have ours.
The whole business amounts to the old hackneyed
device of borrowing for public works—at very low
interest certainly, for the only charge will be that
involved by the maintenance of the note issue,
out borrowing none the less. And the Ireasury
note device, if the story about that device is true,
looks rather unfortunate.
At the risk of being tedious, The Bulletin
refers again to the method which it discussed in
the “ Wild Cat” page of last week’s issue. This
paper's theory is tliac every penny, apart from
tlie 25 per cent, reserve, which is derived from
the issub of Government notes should be devoted
to the purchase of Btate securities —whichever
State securities happen to be selling most cheaply
at the moment —and that the interest derived
from them should be similarly invested, and so on
ad injinituvi so long as there are any State securi-
ties in existence, apart from those held by the
Federal Note Fund. If Federal securities come
into existence the fund shouldn’t stop its process
of accumulation until it has bought them up also.
This paper submits that its scheme has quite a
multitude of advantages over the one which the
Fisher Government is said to contemplate.
Some of the advantages are as follows: —
(.1) In each case the Federal issue will be backed, to
begin with, by 20s. worth of gold and Governmentsecuri-
ties for every £1 note issued (barring the exception
mentioned in' the next paragraph); but, according to
The Bulletin’s scheme, it will be backed by existing
securities, not by a new form of debt expressly nianu-
faetured io meet the emergency.
(2) According to the Fisher scheme a note issue of,
say, £7,000,000 may be backed by £2,n00,000 in gold and
£5,000,000 (face value) in Government securities. But,
seeing that there is an abundance of State securities pur-
chasable at a discount, the scheme advocated by this
paper may easily put £2,000,000 of gold and £5,200,000
(face value) of State securities behind the £7,000,0u0 of
notes even at the very beginning.
(3) The scheme ascribed to the Fisher Government
provides for no increase whatsoever in the security. For
all time there is to be 20s. of cash and Government stock
behind each £1 note—that amount and no more. By
The Bulletin’s method the security will be always in-
creasing at compound interest. In time there will be
£lO or £2O or more in coin and State or Federal stock at
the back of every £1 note. This extra security may look
like surplusage and frill and the needless ostentation of
a bounding Commonwealth, inflated with its own
affluence; but it is a very pleasant thing to have none
the less.
(4, and most important of all.) Under the alleged
Fisher scheme, if a sudden rush for gold sets in—one
that is beyond the capacity of the gold reserve —the only
resource will be to sell the Federal Treasury bills, or part
of them. That is to say, the only time the Common-
wealth will try to borrow money in the open
market will be a time of panic, when money
is scarce and a £lOO debenture at 3£ per cent,
may feel darned proud of itself if it realises £BO. If the
crisis comes 10 years lienee, one single operation of this
kind may blot out all the profits made out of the note
issue in the whole decade. The Bulletin’s scheme pro-
vides a means whereby such a crisis may be met without
compulsory and frantic borrowing in an utterly busted
market. It provides the Federal Note Fund with an
income. During the first year, the Fund’s investments in
State securities, if they yield an average return
of per cent., will (even putting the amount to
be invested as low as £4,000,000) yield £140,000.
At the end of 10 years, allowing for compound
interest, profits made by the repayment at par of
matured stocks which were bought at a discount, and
the increasing use of notes as population expands, the
year’s income will probably be £280,000. At the end of 20
years it will be much more. At the end of 30 years it
will be an enormous amount more. If there is any sign
of financial panic ahead it will be always possible to cease
investing the new income as it comes in, and to apply it
towards strengthening the cash reserve against sudden
calls. That is a very different thing from rushing into a
panic-stricken market and clamoring for money at any
price.
These are some purely financial aspects of the
case. Here are some which are partly financial
and partly political:—
(5) The Bulletin believes, just as the Federal Labor
party does, in the extension of Federal influence. And
one method by which tt.e Commonwealth can extend its
influence over the Slate Governments, without any fuss,
olamo:, referendum or alteration of the Constitution, is
by laying the foundations of a system which will make it
their most important creditor.
(6) The State debts are to be taken over some day.
This paper’s scheme is the beginning of the process.
Under it Australia will be constantly taking over a bit of
the State debts, and in between times it can consider how
to take over the rest.
(7) The State debts must be paid off some day. This
scheme commences the process of payment.
(8) The great trouble about the transfer of the State
debts to the Commonwealth is that the amount owing
per head varies so enormously. This scheme will gradu-
ally and methodically eat them up without any regard to
the amount per head.
The Bulletin has always preached the anti-
borrowing gospel, and has tried to consistently
abjure Cohen, and his nose, and his three-ball
pawnbrokery, and all his works. But if it comes
to be a choice between applying to the construc-
tion of public works the £4,000.000 or £5,000,000
or more of spare cash which may be raised by the
issue of Federal notes, or of using that money as
the foundation of a sinking fund, and openly
borrowing £4,000,000 or more for the said public
works, this paper is on the side of open borrowing
all the time. As a matter of fact, either method
amounts to borrowing, but between (1) the appli-
cation of the available proceeds of the Federal
note issue to the purposes of a sinking fuud for
the extinction of the State debts, combined with
the borrowing of a corresponding amount for
Federal public works, and (2) the direct employ-
ment of the available proceeds of a Federal note
issue for Federal public works, there are these im-
portant differences:—
(1) The first method will greatly extend Federal influ-
ence over the State Governments ; the second won’t.
(2) The first scheme will gradually effect the transfer of
the State debts to the Commonwealth; the second
doesn’t touch the State debts.
(3) The first idea will gradually pay off the liabilities of
Australia ; the second doesn’t propose to pay off a copper.
(4) The first device puts a constantly increasing secu-
rity behind the Federal note issue; according to the
second, the security will be no better 50 years after the
note issue is established than on the first day.
(5) The first dodge will enable the trustees of the
Federal Note Fund to find an extra supply of cash if, in a
time of panic, the gold reserve threatens to be in-
sufficient. Under the second dodge—the one which is
charged against the Fisher Government—the only thing
the trustees can do in a time of panic is to sell Federal
bonds just when the market won’t buy anything except
at a huge discount.
The Bulletin has always had a preference for the
Canadian banking system as against Fisher s
scheme. In Canada the banks are compelled to
hold at least 40 per cent, of their cash reserves in
Federal paper money, though in reality they hold
much more. The person who draws a cheque can
demand a certain proportion of the money in
Federal notes, but otherwise the circulation is left
to take care of itself, which, by the way, it
does remarkably well. By this process the
Government gets a much more secure and per-
manent loan than if it merely depended on notes
in circulation. It can’t be rushed by a conspiracy
to demand payment for a stupendous mass of
notes in one act —a disaster that once fell on the
Bank of England and compelled it to refuse to cash
its notes. And the Government, under the Cana-
dian system, can see for itself when a financial
storm is likely to come. It can insist on the banks
supplying quarterly returns, and if the returns
show a steady decrease in the coin reserves it can
prepare for the chance of being called upon to
cash an unusually large proportion of notes. If
the Canadian principle was adopted in Australia
it would supply the Government with a bigger
loan than the Fisher idea is likely to do, and the
loan would rest on a much better basis.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Land Tax.
A great many people are just now “ viewing
with alarm ” —genuine alarm in some cases and a
bogus article in others —the progressive land-tax
proposals of the Fisher Government. The Tory
press, of course, fosters the alarm and encourages
its readers to wear a shriek of terror as their prin-
cipal article of clothing. The cause of the trouble
is the proposal to tax the big estate —any property
worth over £BO,OOO comes into this category —to
the extent of 6d. in the £. Sixpence in the £ is
24 per cent., and as a property seldom yields
more than 5 per cent, per annum on its value,
there is the horrible spectacle, so some folk
imagine, of a confiscatory Government taking
10s. out of every £ of rent. And if the
owner of the very big property is an absentee it
proposes to take 11s. Bd. out of every £ of rent
according to the view of those who look only at the
outside of things and have no arithmetic concealed
about their clothes. In reality, however, the
Government proposes nothing very terrible. The
Stout Person with £85,000 worth of land assum-
ing that he is not an absentee —will pay nothing
on the first £5OOO, Id. in the £ on the second
£5OOO, lAd. on the next £5OOO ; and so on till the
last £souo is taxed the full Gd. This is how the
man with £BO,OOO worth or less of property will
fare :
Value of Estate. Tax.
£5,0 0 Nothing.
10,000 £2O 16 8 or 4 2 per £lOO
15,000 52 1 8 „ 6 11
20,000 93 15 0 „ 9 4
30,000 197 IS 4 ~ 13 2 „
40,000 322 18 4 „ 16 2 „
50,000 468 15 0 „ IS 9 „
60,000 635 8 4 „ 1 1 2
80,000 1052 1 8 „ 1 6 4 „
Even in the upper storeys of the tax, so to speak,
the landowner will come off better than he does
in beautiful, free, enlightened COBDEN-ite Eng-
land. In that country the struggle to avoid
levying duties on the foreign importer has
made it necessary to heap gigantic bur-
dens on property. When English local
taxes 011 land, and on the income derived from
land, and on the he r when he succeeds to a dead
person’s land are added together, they far exceed
any local, State and Federal taxes or proposed
taxes in Australia. But in Britain there is 110
exemption, and the tax is the same amount in the
£ on the large and small holder alike. It isn’t
graduated, like Fisher's, with a view to breaking
up the big estates. The siu of Fisher’s Govern-
ment, in the view of Toryism, doesn’t lie'so much
in what it proposes to put on as in what it intends
to leave off. The £5OOO exemption and the
comparatively small tax on small properties
offer a powerful inducement to the cutting
up of huge holdings and the 'destruction of
the great land autocrats. And they also
make it impossible for the big holder to
pass the liability on to his tenants. To pass on a
tax of £1 Gs. 4d. per cent, per annum of the
capital value means raising the rent from, say,
£lOO to £I2G 6s. Bd. It might be done if the tax
struck all landlords alike, and they all raised the
rent simultaneously. But only a very mad tenaut
would pay £2G Gs. Bd. per annum extra for the
pleasure of hiring his bit of land from a great
owner with £BO,OOO worth of the earth’s surface
rather than from a small one with £5OOO worth.
The great land monopolist doesn’t seriously object
to a tax which he can pass on, but one which lie
can’t pass on is anathema. And it isn’t the size
of this tax, but the exemptions and abatements
which make it a thing which can’t well be handed
along to the tenant.
«
The Transcontinental Railway and Some
Experts.
At the moment there is a considerable heap of
clamor in the Tory press about the,advisability of
leaving the choice of a route for the Northern
Territory railway to *‘experts.” It is a whale
for “experts” just now. It approaches the sub-
ject with a fine large open mind and with an air
of absolute impartiality which would have tilled
the late Mr. Pecksniff with admiration. Of
course, in such a case a great deal depends on the
selection of the expert. The best expert to select
is one who has made up his mind already in the
direction that suits the selector. And a great
deal dependson the instructions given to theexpert.
One route may be the best for defence purposes, and
another may have advantages in a commercial
sense. If the expert is instructed to look for the
best route with an eye to : (1) Commerce, (2) De-
fence, he may come to a very different decision
from the one he would have reached if he had
been told to fix his eye upon : (1) Defence; (2)
Commerce, or to keep his eye on both at
once. But still, as already mentioned, the Tory
press of N.S.W. is almost weeping 111 its
desire to be fair and to leave the matter to ex-
perts. This, for instance, is the S. M. Herald
(8/7/TO) on the subject
Above everything the route of the Commonwealth rail-
way—on which the chances of settling the Northern
Territory most intimately depend, and will always depend
—is a matter for experts. Australia, which will accept
the decision of an expert as to her naval port, should
aoOept an expert decision —whatever way it might go—in
this also.
It is an amazing piece of brassy hypocrisy when
one looks back on the records of the evil, sordid
past; and as a bluff it is akin to the noble indigna-
tion of the spieler when he is accused of not being
a perfect gentleman. If the matter of the trans-
continental railway is left to experts, the S. M.
Herald will joyfully accept their decision pro-
vided they suggest bringing the lineintoN.S.W.;
otherwise it and all its crew will doubtless clamor
until the report of the experts is laid aside. If
the question of the naval base is left to experts,
the affable old paper will accept their views pro-
vided they recommend Sydney as the base; other-
wise it will go on howling for Sydney just as
if there had never been any experts. In short, it
will do exactly as it did, and as it is doing to-day,
over the Australian capital. An expert was
appointed to select a site for the metropolis of
Australia. To make dead sure that N.S.W.
would have no cause to complain about not getting
a fair deal, the N.S.W. State Government was
allowed to choose the expert, and he was a
N.S.W. State officer. He recommended a site on
Monaro as the very best, and gave his reasons for
doing so. And the Sydney Herald and Tele-
graph and Evening News and the party they
represent took just as much notice of the expert
as if he had been born dead. Their attitude
was simply this: “The capital must be near
Sydney, even if 1000 experts advise other-
wise.” That is still their attitude; even
to-day they howl “Treason” and “Rob-
bery ” if any one suggests the abandonment
of the Yassberra site which the expert didn’t
recommend, and a reversion to the one which be
did. They say it would be a breach of fa th
towards N.S.W. if the expert’s advice was fol-
lowed. Now, the same old Tory tluef, standing
• i d«vH*ht with the stolen goods under his
Sosth Australia .bat it can trust
entirely to h»s honor, and that he as above sus-
Sn South Australia ought, to know better
Pu the chance. Unless it can get a cast-
lVon* boiler-metal guarantee that the expert’s
j •' „ -ii followed and some land of assur-
th« «„.'t t» loaded, u should
s ck to its old demand for the. legal recogn.t.on
nf the straight line. And it is difficult to see
where a boifer-metal guarantee is to come from.
On the record of their dealings with the last im-
portant matter that was submitted to an expert,
Ft doesn’t look as if either Fisher or Deakin can
give it. ■
The Same Old Bleat.
Sydney’s Dill MACKY-ite organ examined the
N.S. W. Labor party last week and immediately
threw a violent tit. Some spasms :
A more shocking outlook never presented itself to the
people of this country. ... If Labor wins at the ensuing
Stale election in New South Wales, Rome will he in the
ascendancy ... In other words, the State will he cursed
with a Roman Catholic Government. .. . The whole
thing is a reproach and a scandal, etc., etc.
It will be remembered that at the recent Federal
elections the Walls of Derry exploded in the same
fashion concerning Federal Labor. Derry re-
frained from mentioning the precise brand
of Romish peril that threatened the coun-
try in the event of the Fusion being
beaten, but it hinted that the possibilities
were horrible, and left it at that. In order to
avert these mysterious, unspecified calamities,
Protestant working men were requested to
vote against a progressive land-tax, against a
decent defence scheme, and so on. However, the
Protestant working man mostly didn’t. On the
contrary, he rose bright and early on the morning
of April 13, flung every anti-Rome expert, from
the veteran Wilks to the callow Bowden, out
on his reactionary ear, and returned by a
large majority the alleged nominees of the
Vatican. Since that happening nothing what-
ever has been done by Federal Labor for Rome.
And there are no indications that anything
is to be done. The Vatican remains quiescent.
It is doubted in well-informed circles whether
Pius X knows a Labor Government is on top in
Australia, or would be in the least gratified if he
did know. In fact, in this regard, the Derryites
stand convicted of a good deal of wild lying. But
they are in no wise abashed thereby, and have
already re-started the ancient game of imploring
the worker to vote against what he conceives to
be his own and his country’s interests—and so
“save Australia from Rome.” Were ever
such tactics persisted in before outside an
asylum? The Protestant clerk who has been
scornfully refused a Wages Board by Wade,
and whose only hope of getting one and, inci-
dentally, a badly-needed increase of pay, lies with
Labor, is counselled to support Wade and go ou
being half-starved, and continue to put up with
hours and pay that a union navvy would scorn—
all to “save Australia from Rome.” The northern
Iron Ore.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
In oar colonies and dependencies there are enormous
reserves of iron 0re.... In Australia there are rich and
abundant reserves, close to the coast, which, with proper
oSfisation could be shipped to this country at low
cost.— London Times. .
Forty thousand people witnessed the football match
between Carlton and Essendon on Saturday.— News item.
ORE !
Iron ore!
Close beside Australia’s shore—
Why the devil don’t we use it, building ships and
forging guns?
Are we ever going to stir from this public
sepulchre,
Where the ore is stacked around us by the hun-
dred million tons ?
We have got it—got it here. Do our thoughts
abide with beer ?
Are our brains quite filled with football, where-
upon we dream and gloat ?
For there’s nothing being done building neither
ship nor gun —
We are drifting, calmly drifting, in an earless
Nation-boat 1
Ore !
Iron ore !
Hear the loud blast furnace roar—
Hear the rolling-mills at Stettin, where the
German makes things gee ;
Hear him rolling armor-plate —he is working
whilst we wait,
And his battleships are pointing with their noses
to the sea !
Built of iron, built of steel, hsavy-armed and
swift of heel—
From the dockyards they are sliding to the ocean
one by one;
Whilst the Teuton launches ships we are shouting
loud “ hip-hips,”
And the doctor mends the umpire when the foot-
ball game is done !
Ore !
Iron ore!
Stuff that counts in modern war—
Stuff whereof the ships are builded, with their
turrets, screws and guns;
What’s the good of “ rich reserves ” when the big
shell swings and curves—
When our baby fleet is shattered and the shock of
battle stuns ?
801 l in England, far away, builds our fighting-
craft to-day—
We are busy picking winners; we are piled in
train and train
As we speed unto the course—to the sacred shrine
of ’orse,
And we’re betting that Jill Jeffries will out the
son of Haii !
Ore!
Iron ore 1
When the big shells lift and soar,
Say, will football help Australia ’gainst the ships
and shotted guns ?
When the bullet blizzards sweep, ye who barrack
loud and leap.
Will it matter who were premiers—Carlton’s
team or Essendon’s ?
“In our far dependencies”—hear the Times’ con-
tented wheeze—
“ln Australia rich deposits lie convenient by the
sea ;
Let us rise and drag them here ” —when the
Empire’s on its bier,
Someone else will drag them homeward—Kaiser
Biel of Germany !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


and southern farmers, whose business is going to
Sheol for the need of convenient ports to
send their produce to, are asked Co vote for a
party pledged and bound to Sydney interests —so
that the country may be “ delivered from the
Papacy ” ! Since the mind of man can remember,
Derry has been battling in the cause of reaction on
the same frayed old lines. A few years ago the
Menace was Protection. The Papal See was rep-
resented as a certain winner in Australia unless
the electors went Freetrade. They went Protec-
tion, and Rome didn’t win worth a copper. Anti-
Sosh took the boards. Derry hastened to lay it
down that unless Socialism was jumped on
with both feet Rome would dominate the Com-
monwealth. Anti-Sosh received its death-
stroke, and Rome didn’t dominate for sour fruit.
There was even a memorable day when Robinson
Snowball, a Derryite of tonnage and now an
M.L.A. in Victoria, declared that the proposal
to place the Australian capital on Monaro was
inspired by Rome. Just hereabouts the gross in-
consistency of Derry sticks out. The Derryites
in N.S.W. all stand for advanced Toryism,
State Frights, and so on. Yet this party clamored
to have the Australian capital fixed in N.S.W. —
the most strongly Roman Catholic State in the
Commonwealth—and to have it put as near as
possible to St. Mary’s and the Cardinal’s back-door,
so that the Australian Parliament would be right in
the thick of all the Romish influences that are
hanging around. South Australia is the most
Protestant of all the States, yet not a Derryite of
them all proposed having the Federal city there,
amid sturdy Protestant surroundings. Now
when it is proposed to shove the transcontinental
railway in a straight line from north to south
through S. Australia (148 Catholics per 1000
people), the Derryites are out with the rest of the
old gang of Tories to support the demand for
a deviation into Queensland (246 Catholics
per 1000), and N.S.W, (260 Catholics per
1000). The Dill MACKY-ites are solid on
the idea that the people should biff Rome
by putting them into Parliament and into highly-
paid political office. But they firmly believe that
if there is a national railway or a Federal capital
going, the most intensely Catholic of all the States
should get it, because that State is their own
State. When their local interests are involved
they appear quite ready to be the hirelings of
the Pope and the base agents of the Inquisition.
A Curious Streak of Luck.
A depressing example of the Law’s incapacity
was provided in Sydney last week. Miss
Martin, a cook, yearned for a husband, and
advertised to that effect last year, in the local
press. A married man named Curtis replied,
under the name of Fredericks, intimating that
he “ would like to settle down.” His letter went
on :
lam 36 years of age. It is not much use writing, has
we could say all we want to in a few minutes if you will
have me. I trust you will give me the first opportunity
of seeing you. I have answered one of these before, but
had no reply, so I hope you won’t treat me so harsh. I
would give you my room address only that a lot of my
letters go astray, and Ino that they receive them. Ex-
cuse paper, has I have wrote this at work. I don't want
you to write just to have a game with me, has I would
sooner be without it.
Curtis, or Fredericks, and Miss Martin met,
and on January 6 they arranged to get married
in four months’ time. She thereupon handed him
all her savings—*£23—for home-constructing pur-
poses. He and the cash faded away into the un-
known. The home wasn’t constructed. The
wedding-bells didn’t ring out. Miss Martin
saw him no more. Last week the State charged
him with fraudulent appropriation as a bailee. So
lightly did he regard the matter that he didn’t even
trouble to give evidence in his defence. And he
was triumphantly acquitted of legal wrong-doing
and discharged, after which his solicitorowned up
by stating that he had promised to pay the woman.
Curtis is a married man. Therefore, when he
answered Miss Martin’s matrimonial advt. he
must presumably have intended to defraud the
advertiser. It is difficult to see what else he
could inteud. A man who gets hold of a woman’s
money on the false pretence that he is going to
marry her and will use the cash to “make a
home” is surely more culpable than the sharp
who takes down a fellow-male with a Fiji uncle,
Spanish treasure or gold-brick narrative. The
law imposes big penalties for such crimes
as forgery and embezzlement, for the reason
that they are easy to perpetrate and hard to
discover. But of all the crimes in the lexicon of
Newgate, the simplest and safest is surely that of
swindling a sentimental woman. The man who
was plausible enough to talk such a female out of
her cash in the first instance could, in all likeli-
hood, talk her with equal ease into a resigned
frame of mind when the cash was gone. And,
anyhow, a women, 99 times out of 100 is ashamed
to bring that sort of trouble into a Court of Law.
The writer saw the late Chief Justice Dauley
sentence a yokel at Dubbo for perjury. This
man, a typical backbiocks simpleton (and without
any previous stain on his character), drifted
affably into Court to support a neighbor’s alibi.
Thu alibi failed, and the supporter of it left the
Court to start a term of five years. If that un-
fortunate deserved five years, Mr. Curtis— -who is
now at large—certainly merits something very
different from £23.
The Cloven Hoof, Likewise the Spiked Tail.
The farmer, whose voice is so often heard com-
plaining of the scarcity of “reliable
laborers,” usually protests stoutly that he pays
fair wages ; and any insinuation to the contrary
makes him a very mad farmer indeed. But now
and then the cloven hoof peeps out, to cover him
with confusion ; and a few days ago an incident
stumbled into the glare of the daily press in
which not only the cloven hoof, but also the long,
spiky tail, were plainly visible. In fact, the com-
plete animal was to be seen with the naked eye.
The occurrence arose through Josiah Thomas,
M.H.R. for the Barrier, stating that some of the
immigrant boys who are being hustled out to
Australia to “ learn farming ” had been inveigled
into the wilds of Gippsland and shockingly
treated by farmers there. As it was a State
matter, the Victorian Minister rebuked ThomAs
in a pained, though polite, manner ; but he also
did what was more to the purpose—he looked into
the matter, and he found that, as the Queen of
Sheba said of Solomon’s glory, the half had not
been told. Here is just one sample case.
Two boys, recent arrivals from Bull-land, had
been sent to a Gippsland farmer, who.agreed to
pay them 6s. per week arid “found.’’ The wage
was not likely to turn the lads’ heads, even sup-
posing they got it all ; but at the end of the
month the farmer handed the unfortunates a
statement, in which “kerosene, vestas and other
small items” were charged, to the amount of IBs.
He then handed—probably in a chaff-bag-r-the
balance of 6s. over to his astonished employees.
As even a Bull-land boy is used to more than
eighteenpence per week, the lads incontinently
grabbed their bundles and fled. They are pro-
bablv going yet; and if any Gippsland farmer
gets in their road he will—if not too big-be
trampled to death. In the meantime their former
employer probably holds forth at conferences
and writes to the ARGUS about the “scarcity of
reliable farm labor.” Of course all farmers are
not like this dreadful Gippsland specimen ; but
enough of them are to give the fraternity a bad
name. It might be advisable some day to brand
the bad sort in a conspicuous place, or put them
all on King Island with no hired labor available.
An island with no cheap labor and plenty of grass
would probably be the farmers’ equivalent to
Gehenna.
The Closed and Ruined Ports.
“Leo Lear” writes on the above subject; —
“Harrison O.” (B. 23/6/’10) raises considerable dust
and, incidentally, sundry mud because I reprimanded
him for embellishing Geelong (Victoria) with undeserved
attributes. Now this town may be all that he says it is,
and, at the same time, forfeit none of the virtues I
claimed for it. But, whereas the damnatory clauses can-
not be placed on Geelong’s doormat, the desirable-
qualities certainly can go down on the credit side of the
town ledger. The Yarra-side octopus has vampired Gee-
long as well as the rest of Victoria, and having drawn all
the good it can, turns round and calls the Corio Bay port
a “ Sleepy Hollow.” Somewhat the same thing occurs
when the dairy farmer, following the advice given in the
advertisement columns of the Smelbourne press to “send
his cream to Melbourne,” up-ends himself to designate the
local factory a poor show.
It becomes a trifle wearisome when residents of a town
join the gang that is hurling the offensive epitaphs.
The causes of Geelong’s present stagnation are
correctly promulgated by “ H. 0.,” but has the capital
ever given Geelong a chance to be anything else
than what it is? As far as I can remember,
the town on the Barwon has consistently returned
democratic and Protectionist members to the Lower
House. In pre-Federation days many factories were
started in Geelong ; but the bright periods of Protection
which gave them encouragement were cleft by bouts of
Foreign-trade, originating from the Lane of the Metro-
polis that was doing its dam’dest to make its own vested
interests the centre of the Universe.
From the commencement of things the Port Phillip
settlement has always been a bit ahead of the Corio Bay
one. Batman’s treaty with the blacks was made on fith
June, 1835, and in September, 1836, Melbourne was
opened for settlement; while the first land sales at
Geelong were not held till two years later. When
separation was obtained from N.S.W., Melbourne had a
population of 23,000 and Geelong one of 8300. The top
dog then recognised the strength of the lower one that
had the rich Western District at its back. So when,
later on, railways were built, one was run right
through the present “ Sleepy Hollow ” to take the trade
thereof.
“Harrison O.” draws Portland into the disturbance.
Well, having been a resident of that town for some years,
I know something of Portland, which, as that scribe
avers, should be the first port in Victoria. But, unless
separation happens along, and the imaginary line
between the port and Mount Gambier —which is so
imaginary that after years of dispute no one knows defi-
nitely where it is—be done away with, and unless the
preferential rates be permanently obliterated, Portland
promises to be the first show place in Australia for old
ruins, scrap iron, and lost opportunities. Yet I don’t
hang the blame for this high up on the local lighthouse.
Settled first by the Henty Bros, in 1834, Portland budded
itself slowly and surely until the gold rush of 1851-2.
Then things hummed. Half a dozen pubs went up
between the port and the next township (Heywood), and
a stream of humans jostled along to the fields laden with
drink and mud. Old ruins and heaps of bluestone now
mark the position of these pubs. After the rush Port-
land bent back into its usual position like a tree
after a gale, and commenced to draw per bullock
waggon the trade of the hinterland. But the bloated
beast that squats on Hobson’s Bay, seeing a young rival
in the west, threw out another tenacious feeler in the
shape of a railway. This was proclaimed with all joy, a
big drunk and much toast, as the future purveyor of
mighty produce to Portland harbor. But the townsfolk
of Portland soon learnt that, whereas it was as easy to
pull goods from Hamilton and other Western District
places 200 odd miles to Melbourne as it was to catch
leather-jackets off the local pier, yet if anyone wished to
run goods 50 miles to their nai ural outlet, the task
assumed the dimensions of navigating a Dreadnought up
the Condamine in the big drought. So Portland slumped
with a mighty slump, and the slump thereof is being
repeated in other towns in John Weary’s State.
I can’t swallow the alleged advantages held by Geelong
over Ballarat and Bendigo. Towns that are raised and
supported by gold hold the top berth over all other types
of settlement, so long as the gold holds out. Yet Mel-
bourne is even now drawing the life blood out of Bal-
larat. If a Ballarat manufacturer wishes to send a
blanket consignment to Portland, it is cheaper
to rail it first to Melbourne, then haul it up
the break-neck Bacchus Marsh bank back through
Ballarat, and on to its destination. If anyone
is sending sweaters from Melbourne to the future garrison,
in Port Darwin, they will go, according to this law, up to
Toowoomba, then back to Melbourne, and on to the
Northern Territory via Adelaide and Oodnadatta. The
advantages of this system are so obvious that no one has
thought it worth while to inspect them at a closer range
than 5387yds. If things are left as at present, the final
evolution of Victoria w ill be somewhat as follows. The
central body, requiring more and yet more to satisfy its
voracious appetite, will draw in gradually the whole
wealth of the State, as the sun may draw the planetsand
moons. When there is nothing left but desolation, drear
and stark, in the outer regions, Melbourne will begin to
use its own internal energy. The residents will become
inert and crusted. They will die. Vested interests will
collapse for lack of material on which to bloat, and Mel-
bourne will be extinct. But in the interval “ Harrison
O.” is enduring in Geelong-. I can give him Biblical
encouragement: “He that endureth unto the end shall
receive the old-age pension.”
■ +
A Monopoly Which is Going to Cut Its
Own Throat.
Op all Australia’s monopolies the one which is
most cynically, not to say maniacally, indifferent
to public obloquy, is probably the Colonial Sugar
Refining Co. It stands, in a commercial manner
of speaking, on velvet. It is heavily protected.
It has no trade rivals that are worth considering.
For nearly 20 years (to be precise, since Sep-
tember, 1890) it has declared an annual divi-
dend of 10 per cent., and that by no means
represents the yearly profits it has made
in the time. Ten per cent, is what the
annual balance-sheet mentions ; but. under the
N.S. W. Companies Act, balance-sheets are often
useful to conceal from the public material but
awkward facts. Anyhow, in 1907, £75,000 worth
of Sugar Co, reserves were capitalised ; in 1908, a
further £350,000 worth of reserves were capital-
ised ; and last year the co. issued to shareholders
17,500 £2O bonus shares. Then the co. has half a
million sterling stowed away for “depreciation,”
though there is a powerful probability that de-
preciation is paid for out of current earnings.
In short, the co. is fairly bursting with prosperity,
and its efforts to conceal the fact that its genuine
earnings are a good deal more than 10 per cent,
per annum on the capital actually paid up, are as
pathetically unavailing as those of a homing
inebriate to hide from the world that he has four
bottles of beer, a lobster and six dozen oysters
bestowed about , his person. Yet the folks who
run the show are apparently not satisfied. This
appeared in Sydney Telegraph last Thursday
Commencing from to-dav, the works of the Australasian
Jam Factory Proprietary, Limited, will remain tem-
porarily closed. The cessation of operations will affect
about 350 employees. The stoppage of work is the direct
outcome of the increased price of sugar, which the
Colonial Sugar Refining Company recently raised from
£lB 15s. to £2O 17s. 6d. per ton.
Being a monopoly, the Colonial Sugar Refining
Co. can afford to be autocratic with would-be
buyers, and. it is. Thus, the Australasian Jam
Co., being up against it, and feeling desperate,
finally intimated its willingness to pay the
inequitably increased price of £2O 17s. 6d.
per ton (plus ss. per ton for bags) that the
Sugar 00. ashed. Whereupon the Sugar Co.
turther stipulated that it should be given the
whole of the order for the factory’s requirements ;
tailing which it refused to supply sugar. It was
al j u a I . nt ? leral)l<3 P oint that the Jam people
ji )hed, locked out their hands and ceased
business. Considering that the Australasian
Jam Co. can buy .Java sugar at £l3 15s. a
ton ( plus the Commonwealth duty of £6 per
ton), the jam industry reckons it does well to be
angry. Ibis is not only a jam manufacturer’s
funeral, however ; it is the funeral of that section
of Australians which is uninterested in jam.
Already the country grocer is driven to sell sugar
at cost price, which means that his expenses are
dead loss. The bulk of his patrons object to pay re-
tail more than the co.’s outrageous wholesale price.
Meanwhile, in Tory circles, any talk of nationalis-
ing the sugar industry is ascribed to a malignant
hankering on the part of “ confiscatory Socialism”
to penalise a Private Enterprise concern whose
sole offence is that it is “ well and profitably con-
ducted.” The fact is, the Sugar Co. will have
itself alone to thank if the Commonwealth, in
desperation, resumes and runs it. As things are,
the majority of the population look like being
offered a choice between something of that sort
and the relinquishing of sweetened tea for life.
+
“ The Argus ” Raises an Argument-
Melbourne Argus on the P.M.G.’s intention to
“toll” the telephones :
Dfr. Thomas asks why a business man should pay £lO
and a private person £5? Surely, he cannot be serious.
This is applying the commercial view with a vengeance.
A businessman may make £5 with a call of his telephone ;
the private telephone is for social purposes largely.
In such artless illustrations as this, the working
of the Tory mind appears incredibly illogical.
What has the user’s use for a telephone message
to do with the department that supplies the
means of transmitting it? A stockbroker may
make £lOOO by taking a taxi-cab for a
journey, instead of walking the distance. Would
the Argus charge him ten times as much as the
old lady who travels per taxi to an afternoon tea
party. A lot of money depends on the safe de-
livery of a rich man’s telegram or letter, perhaps ;
but he pays the same rate as the Gussie who
is making an appointment with Gwendoline.
Railway fares are the same to the busy speculator
as to the junior clerk. “ The commercial view
is applied with a vengeance,” as the
Argus would say, in all services that cater
for the public convenience. The charge for a
book of technical instruction is fixed at one
price for the professional or the amateur. The
Argus, seemingly, would alter all this. It would
make the postman pay extra for his boots because
they are more essential to his way of living than
are boots to the man who can get along comfort-
ably in slippers. A carpenter should pay more
for his hammer than a millionaire householder
pays. And as the Argus lives, in a great
measure, by cable news, it ought to be charged 100
times as much per word as the Toorak aunt who
sends birthday greetings to her niece in London.
Brother O’Malley’s Land-Grant.
Minister O’Malley has made a rather eccentric
proposition, to the effect that, iti consideration of
the building by the Commonwealth of the railway
from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie, S.A. and West-
ralia should hand over a strip of land 50 miles
wide along the line of route —25 miles on each
side of the railway. That would mean a transfer
of, say, 35.000,000 acres, in consideration of the
construction of a line estimated to cost a good
deal less than £4,000,000’; so, if" the land realised
even 4s. an acre, the proceeds of it would pay for
the line nearly twice over. That is to say, S.A.
and Westralia would pay the whole cost of a
line which belonged to the Commonwealth,
and also pay the Commonwealth a bonus
of over £3,000,000. O’Malley wants to secure
the unearned increment for the Commonwealth,
but a bitter and inclement roar from the West
hints that he is overdoing the thing. Certainly
if the deal did come off it would create a curious pre-
cedent. For instance, on the same basis N.S. W.
should pay twice over the whole cost of building
the Australian capital. And the State, which
ever it may be, which gets the naval base in its
territory, should pay for the docks, fortifications,
etc. And the State in which the Federal arsenal
and gun and ammunition factories are located
should pay something extra. For all these things
bring to the State which gets them a certain
amount of money, population and unearned in-
crement just as a railway does. The proposed
Port Augusta-Kalgoorlie line is expected, as
already mentioned, to cost less than £4,000,000,
and the land endowment which MinisterO’MALLEY
suggests is 55,000 square miles. Assuming a
Federal capital to cost £1,000,000 of the Common-
wealth’s money, it should, on this basis, be
endowed by the State of N.S.W. with a grant of
13,750 square miles. Is there any chance of col-
lecting that endowment ? Echo whoops derisively
in the middle distance.
«.
Consider the marvellous ways of John Murray.
Melbourne is about to struggle with another re-
construction of its lamentable port, being driven
thereto by necessity. A great number of people,
including first-class engineers, think it would be
better to abandon altogether the long, tortuous
Yarra and cut a canal straight from Melbourne to
the bay. The Government owns the land already,
and the stuff to be excavated is merely sand and
soft earth. The canal would reduce the distance
to the bay to one-third what it is now. and when
it comes to a question of deepening the channel
to allow of monster vessels coming to the city
one straight mile is vastly cheaper than three
crooked ones. The Bent Government, just be-
fore its decease, borrowed a harbor engineer from
the M.L. Ministry, and he reported strongly
in favor of the straight cut. But Bent’s successor
believes in the old winding Yarra. Ho he sent
one Davidson to England to consult Sir William
Matthews, an English engineer who has never
been in / ustralia in his life. With nothing to
guide him except what he was told by Davidson
—who presumably told him what Premier
Murray told him to tell him—English en-
gineer Matthews decided on sticking to the
old Yarra and the awful Coode canal. So
Murray puts aside the report of the expert who
investigated things on the spot, and adopts that
of the man who never saw the place and was
guided by second-hand information, probably
garbled to meet the case. Yet, apparently,
Murray has only one reason for sticking to the
Yarra—that it is the old track, and a thoroughly
tired man finds it a great trouble to get into a new
track. Meanwhile, Melbourne continues to be a
horribly bad port.
The short-sighted farmer is ad vertising his fatu-
ousness again. At the Farmers’ Convention in
Ballarat last week quite a number of delegates
uprose to protest in violent language agains the
reoent proposal for an export duty on hides.
Among other pleas urged was the novel one that
the proposal was only the thin end of the wedge,
and that a similar duty would presently he sought
on wool, wheat and other produce. The dele-
gates were doubtless right in their surmises, but
egregiouslv wrong in their conclusions. The
export duty isn’t asked for in order to keep down
the price of hides, but in order to keep the manu-
facturing industries in the country, as well as to
create more of them. The position at pre-
sent is that the foreigner must buy our
flour, cloth and boots, if he cannot get
our wheat, wool and hides, simply and
solely because he cannot grow enough himself
for his own needs ; but so long as he can buy the
raw material he will do so, and manufacture it
himself. The farmer has not so far shown, or
attempted to show, that the making up of the
raw material in the Commonwealth instead of in
France or Germany will hurt him (the farmer) in
any way. In fact, it will advantage him in two
ways : it will give him a larger local consumption
to supply, and it will also widen his market and
steady his prices. At present, because of their
comparatively large demands, the foreign raw-
material buyers practically control the markets
and fix the Australian farmer’s prices. Should
they combine or come to an “ honorable under-
standing” it would be difficult, if not impossible,
to deal with them; but an Australian combine
could be brought to heel in short order.
“O.K. ” puts his pen into a hornet’s nest :—
Surely the term “ new-chuni ” is the most hypocritical
in the Australian language. Under the guise of friend-
liness, it expresses contempt, dislike, ridicule, intoler-
ance, or even animosity—good-natured contempt or
humorous ridicule at the best; bitter animosity at the
worst. I have often heard it spoken sneeringly, dis-
paragingly, churlishly and angrily, but never kindly.
There has been no warmth of welcome in it as long as I
can remember, and I was a new-ohum myself 27 years
ago. Seems to me that the anti-immigration spirit, of
what may be called the Little Labor party, has been fed
on the milk of unkindness that the term yields.
It’s a widow’s cruse full of bad sentiment,
and goodness knows how it came to be so.
There must have been a time when the new-comer was
greeted as a chum. The term didn’t spring from ill-
feeling, like a fungus from a heap of dirt, iiut it must
have lost its original virtue ever so long ago, for when I
inquired of my first Melbourne landlady the reason why
strangers were so palpably regarded as intruders, she
said : “It was always the same. When I came from Eng-
land with my husband all this part of Melbourne was
bush. The blacks were camped in Albert Park, as it now
is. But people used to ask, ‘ What brought you out
here?’as though we were poaching on their preserves.
They didn’t like new-chums, although they hadn’t been
very long out here themselves.” From which I assumed
then, and assume now, that the term, ever since it began
to be hypocritical, has been a positive stimulant to the
anti-immigration spirit of selfishness. The “ new-chum ”
by any other term would sound less intrusive.
As soon as he passes the Customs he is labelled—like a
travelling trunk—“ to be ill-liked at the outset.” The
working man is up against him, more or less. The
Trades Halls snort at every mention of him. The Federal
Government will have to apologise humbly for treating
him as a political requirement. And all, or partly, be-
cause custom has saddled him with a certain appellation.
Between the supercilious Joiinnir who talks of
“ Kawlonial experience ” and the Worker who comes out
here to settle no distinction of term is made. Therein
the objection to the former is visited upon the latter.
They are both tarred with the same prejudice, which is
healthy and right in the case of the wasters, but stupid
and short-sighted as regards the workers.
The Melbourne Argus lately printed some stag-
gering figures concerning a. company—the Inter-
national Harvester Co. of U.S. A. —which is well
known out here. In 1909 its sales soared up to
£17,325,000; on which it made a profit of
£4.000,000. There were heavy writings-off on
various accounts, until £2,980,000 was left for
distribution. The moderate dividend of 7 per
cent, was declared ; but as this left £5,400,000 to
carry forward, the old dodge of watering the
stock was resorted to, and no less than £4,000,000
worth of shares were given free to shareholders.
So that in the future the co. will be able to wear
the white shirt of a blameless life, and point to
its moderate rate of dividend. The Argus naively
adds:—
The directors have pushed their trade into every
quarter of the globe. Where tariffs are strongly adverse,
as in Germany and France, it has erected independent
works, and now it is beginning a similar enterprise in
Russia.
The following was apparently crowded out: —
In Australia, the tariff is so low that the 00. can get all
the machines, motor buggies and implements it makes
into the Commonwealth easily, and has no need at pre-
sent to start works here and give employment to Aus-
tralians.
»
“Barcoo ” tells of the Unborn Land :
To the man who knows the Northern Territory, the
opinions passed on it by politicians and would-be politi-
cians are ridiculous. For instance, High Commissioner
Gorge Reid stated recently that the Territory’s climate
was unfitted for Anglo-Saxons, hut was eminently suit-
able for Calabrians from Southern Italy. Twaddle!
Gorge knows very little about the geographical, and less
about the climatic, conditions of the Territory—he knows
as little as the writer in one of the leading Australian
dailies who, a few days ago, deplored that the breeding
of cattle had been undertaken in Territory country,
which was unsuitable owing to the prevalence of disease.
These anti-truths emanate from the speculators who hold
options and concessions in the north of the continent,
and who have only one object—cheap labor.
If the Territory was given a squ.ire dial and threaded
with railway communication to its proper ports, no por-
tion of the Commonwealth would be more excellent to
settle in. To-day the Territory is as unknown in the
Southern States as was all that fine pastoral country in
the west, central-west and north-west of Queensland 25
years ago, before artesian and sub-artesian water was
dreamed of. Both those breeds of water can be obtained
in the Territory with more ease and at a less depth than
in Queensland. As for the climate, it is the same
as that inland from Cairns, Townsville and Rock-
hampton in the east, and the same as in Kim-
b rly on the west. And in those districts the
climate is unsurpassed. To ignorant persons like High
Commissioner Gorge, it is incredible that the Territory,
far from being a howling wilderness, is composed of
millions upon millions of acres of beautiful downs coun-
try, which stretches west and north-west from, say,
Boulia, Burketown and Port Darwin, throug-h the Vic-
toria River and Kimberley country, and right on to the
west coast of Australia. Any part of this enormous
stretch is suited for sheep. Droughts are practically un-
known, and the monsoonal rains are reliable. It is the
inland portion of the country that is most valuable.
Tropical conditions must exist on a tropical coast; but
the beauty of the Territory is the fine pastoral country
that extends so much closer to the coast line than it does
in Queensland or Westralia. The tropical coast line
of the Northern Territory is splendidly adapted for tropi-
cal culture. Sugar, cotton, rubber, coffee, rice—all these
commodities have been proved.
It is time the Commonwealth had some knowledge of
this vast and undeveloped stretch of country in the north
of Australia.
♦
“G.R.F.”: What is wrong with King Sound, in
North-West Australia, as a western base for
the Commonwealth navy? It is an immense
sheet of,water to which there is only one narrow
entrance, safe for the biggest ship afloat and
hardly discernible from the sea. The entrance
could be fortified and made impregnable. Derby,
the nearest town, is 60 miles away, near the head
of, the Sound. All round are miles of virgin
country in the hands of a few squatters, so there
is any amount of room for immense dockyards


Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
hfdh
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Svdney—3B6 George St. ; Melbourne—266 Collins St.
Brisbane-93-95 Queen St.; Adelaide—Gawler Place
and arsenals. The Sound is only entered three or
four times a month by the steamer running be-
tween Wyndham and Fremantle, or the boats
trading between Fremantle and Singapore.
In the olden days a few of the pearlers
used the Sound as a harbor of refuge
during the hurricane seasons, and the fact
that the small schooners rode out the heaviest
blows without damage is proof of its sheltered
position. In its vast expanse of water there is
ample scope for big gun practice, and the author-
ities could frame any regulations they pleased for
the control of the port without treading on the
corns of vested interests. King Sound is only six
days’ steam from Singapore for ordinary 12-knot
boats, and less than that distance from the steam
tracks of the big mailboats on their run between
Colombo and Fremantle. Another point in its
favor is that it is far away from big centres of
civilisation, so that strangers would not be likely
to worm important secrets out of dockyard
artisans. From the sheltered base of the Sound
the warships could command the whole Indian
Ocean coast line of the Commonwealth, and in-
tercept any vessels that approached from the
north before they could do much damage to the
oversea trade.
Cabled last week that President Joseph Jonas,
of the British FreetradeUnion, has been denounc-
ing the importation of bounty-fed German steel.
“Foreigners,” said this prominent Foreign-
trader, “ could send what they chose to Britain,
but it must not be below cost price, or the British
manufacturer would not survive.” Very likely,
but the foreigner keeps doing it. It often happens
that the blighted and nefarious alien, secure in his
own market by reason of his tariff, wants to
capture the unprotected British market for
his line of goods also. There are two ways to
get a monopoly in a new market. One is to buy
out the local manufacturers—which perhaps in
one particular line would cost £1,000,000. The
other way is to undersell them— i.e. , to sell below
cost—until the rivals are extinguished. That can
probably be done for £500,000, which is a mighty
saving, and it has a great advantage over the
purchase method, inasmuch as it warns off new
competitors. The Englishman can’t retaliate by
attacking the Yankee (say) in his own market,
for that is protected, and as long' as the English-
man enjoys the “ blessings ” of Freetrade, he will
be the target for all the dumpers of the earth.
The trouble is only beginning. So what is Free-
trader Joseph Jonas going to do about it?
4
“ H.E It.” on the business of being a martyr :
A couple of months ago the Metropolitan Timber Mer-
chants’Employees’ Union (Perth) took two days off and
voiced itself in a mean little building called, by
courtesy, the Court of Arbitration. I was a witness, and
represented a laborer in the industry. Briefly I narrated
my negotiations for higher wages with my employer.
Cut down further to fit a nutshell, here are the facts :
Was married and had two children, which I told my
employer when I first asked for a job. He asked me
would 6s. per day be any good to me. I hadn’t been used
to hard graft. My hands were white, like a woman’s. I
said it would do until I proved myself capable of doing
the work. In three weeks I bailed him up and showed
horny hands. He said he would make it all right, and
proceeded to by giving me a free pass into the Royal
Snow, which was in progress at the time. Also, I
was elevated to 6s. Bd. A month I waited (the
dogs were growling now); then taxed my em-
ployer again. He said the foreman told him I was in-
competent, not strong enough, etc. I spluttered out as
much as “ unvarnished lie,” when he left me protesting
to a stack of yellow pine. Hurriedly I sought the fore-
man and picked up the threads of my conversation.
Brow-puekerings, gesticulations and long rhetoric finally
boiled down the foreman’s explanation to one word—
Misunderstanding.
My employer was a wary bird, and I couldn’t catch him
for weeks after. Having an excuse on Christmas Eve, I
went up to his house and demanded to see him. I asked
for full wages, on the ground that the foreman was per-
fectly satisfied. He said the wages were breaking him.
1 said I was sorry. He said he would fix it up with the
New Year. There was joy in the camp. It appeased,
temporarily, the dogs who were now barking.
New Year’s bells didn’t ring in my wages. The dogs
began to show their teeth. I made strenuous efforts to
make my employer toe the mark. He couldn’t even hear
me. His mind was always aeroplaning. I was a worm.
I joined the Union. All this I told the Court except
about the dogs. I thought I had the Court’s protection.
Some days after the interview with the Court (the case
was still subjudice) the foreman came whistling to me.
He said things were slack, and I would have to take a
holiday. He went away whistling. It was my requiem
They had put a laborer on the day before they sacked
me. They put another on the day after.
Hot-footed I ran to the Union. I had visions of six
policemen holding down my employer’s nose on a grind-
stone while an insulted and indignant Court went
through his pockets for a suitable fine. The Union said
I hadn’t a leg to stand on, hadn’t an eye to look out of,
hadn’t a tooth to bite with.
Vale Arbitration! Ta-ta, Freedom of Speech! By-
bye, mistaken idea of Court Protection !
If you want to open out, in a small wav, in the business
of be’ing a martyr, begin by publicly reproaching your
employer in the interest of higher wages.
Despite the fervid temperance and anti-
gambling utterances of S. A. Labor Premier
Verran, bis Ministry has decided not to attempt
to pass a more drastic Licensed Victuallers Bill
this session. And Government Whip Blundell
has once more introduced his half-crown totalisa-
tor scheme.
Melbourne’s northern suburbs are afflicted
by a Stench —a thick and clammy odor which the
fried onions of the locality cannot vanquish—and it
comes from that sylvan stream called Merri
Creek. The Aroma is mostly caused by offal
and refuse from tanneries and boiling-down works,
and nobody in John Weary’s stagnant community
seems able to compel dirty trades to keep their dirt
to themselves. The creek bears its natural
crop of dead, but a deputation has darkly
declared that they are the clay of per-
sons blown off the bridges by the power of
the Smell. The municipalities want the Govern-
ment to spend some thousands of pounds in “ re-
moving the nuisance ” —probably by skimming it
off the surface with spoons, for nobody in Victoria
evqr dreams of tackling a nuisance at its origin.
(That is one reason why immense land monopolies
still flourish untaxed in the Landlord State.)
Moreover, the municipal Bumbles (to whom the
Odor pays rates) have no idea of doing the job
themselves; for Stink is always rather precious
than otherwise to the municipal soul. Some day
this Hum will cause an epidemic and a panic, but
until then it is likely to frighten horses and to
suffocate children who search for old bottles on
its banks.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Knight for a Day.”
Royal “ What Every Woman Knows.”
Criterion “ Passing of the 3rd Floor Back.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
ijYckum Spencer's Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating’.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ What Happened to Jones.”
Her .Majesty's “The Orchid.”
Royal Oscar Asclie and Lily Brayton.
King’s “ The Chance of a Lifetime.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenteum Hall Frank Speaight.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
“ A Knight for a Day,” the new show at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is described by the
management as a “ side-acher ”; it might
with more justice be termed a “futility.”
The music isn’t worth talking ' about. Such
vestige of plot as the piece owns is less
coherent than that of the average pantomime.
The dialogue is utterly fatuous. A character
expresses a hankering to meet a young woman.
His companion, a chef, sprays him with sauce,
remarking brightly, “This is good for meat.”
(Shrieks of laughter.) Jeremy Joy, K.C., drops
a case of champagne down a well. Looking
with regret in the direction of the vanished
wine he says, meaningly, “That was the best case”
(pause to let the point sink well in) “ I ever lost.”
(L >ud applause.) When the characters aren’t
uttering quips of the above sort they are mostly
falling off something, or being belabored, or
dropping heavy articles, or getting their necks
screwed, or knocking things over, or having their
lives threatened, or saying “damn.” In the first
act the leading lady comedian gets drunk, and
very realistically she does it, too. When she has
sobered up she elopes with the leading
gentleman comedian. The elopement offers scope
for some diverting mock-modesty business on a
ladder, which is duiy availed of. Undoubtedly,
there is a public for this sort of drivel. A mem-
ber of it—a youthful male—sat behind the writer
on the night when duty called him to Her
Majesty’s. So often as a stage deed was done
which met with this lad’s approval he cried,
“ Cheeroh ” —a term of greeting which has a con-
siderable vogue just now among the bloods of
Balham, Tooting (Upper and Lower), Hampstead
W., and other London suburbs, whither it has
penetrated via Bob Sievier’s Winning Post.
During the evening this enthusiast bleated the
word “ Cheeroh ” 40 times or more—a fair mea-
sure of the intellectual worth of the entertain-
ment.
* * * *
Miss Toby Claude achieves a success as
Tillie Day, a burlesque maid-servant. There are
no fine shades about her fun-making. In the
matter of costume, facial contortion and so on she
gets her effects, in a manner of speaking, with
an axe. Vanity does not debar her from wearing
a series of grotesque hats and an Empire frock
which laces up the back with rope. However,
towards the end, she discards these unsightly aids
to merriment and appears a radiant vision cut
low, so that one of the characters is moved
to say archly: “Ha! I see you’re” (pause)
“back again.” (Roars of amusement.) Bert
Gilbert is funny in the old, well-established Gil-
bert way, as Jeremy Joy, K.C. W. S. Percy has
a part that suits him as Marcelin, the chef.
Herbert Clayton and Frank Greene are stalwart
and tuneful lovers. Miss Lizette Parkes makes
an alluring Elaine, and Miss Grace Edmonds
sings nicely and acts a schoolgirl rdle with a good
deal of vivacity and charm.
# * * *
“What Every Woman Knows” was re-
vealed to Sydney at the Royal on Saturday last.
Womankind has all along been placidly aware
that Man without Woman is a useless animal ;
the Royal show serves to impress the axiom on
the world. The humbling of John Shand, the
Scotch railway porter who has resolution enough
to climb to a seat in the House of Commons, but
insufficient capacity to hold Cabinet rank there, is a
sorrowful spectacle, which lasts for nearly two acts.
The self-reliant young man of Acts I. and 11. is
shown in the position of a sort of political
dummy. The real M.P. is Mrs. Shand. She sits
at home knitting at a furious rate, while John is
enthusing Britain with her good things which his
admiring country calls Shandisms. Under the
circumstances, Maggie’s tremendous interest in
her John’s career is understandable. John’s
career is really the career of Maggie.
-Jf- w fc W TV
The first act, which shows the Wylie
family at home, and John and the future Mrs.
Shand in the primitive stage, rings true. The
scene where the deadly-serious youth who has
burglariously entered the premises for the pur-
pose of peaceful study, grudgingly accepts his
captors’ offer of £3OO worth of education in re-
turn for his promise to marry Maggie, is excellent
because it is real. The rest of the play suffers by
comparison. And yet it is all very ingenious and
human and whimsical, and generally delightful.
In the second act John appears as a brisk young
vulgarian who has narrowly defeated a baronet
at the polls. There is no hint, thusfar, that
Maggie has wrought the baronet’s downfall.
When, in the hour of his triumph, the
new M,P. tells the electors that he is
going to mirry the girl whom he knew in
the days of his obscurity, we feel that he is be-
having somewhat nobly. Even when, later, John
has developed into a painfully inflated Shand, we
condone his offence. At any rate, we reason, it
is his own success which has swelled his head.
That is where Barrie lets John and the onlookers
down with a bump. He has an affair with Lady
Sybil Lazenby—a lady of unlimited leisure—who
has been attracted by his strength of character
and seeming mentality. Maggie surprises her
husband and Lady Sybil making love, and accepts
the situation with business-like calm. She ar-
ranges for them to renounce the world together
as soon as John has delivered a speech for which
he is booked.
* * *
No devoted wife has ever acted thus off-
stage, but undoubtedly it would be all to the
moral good if some of them did. The joy of cap-
turing another woman’s husband is diluted hor-
ribly when the prey is handed over without a
murmur. Suspicion is engendered that he must
be a poor, dull sort of catch, after all. And the
discard is himself smitten on the raw. A woman
is never so desirable as when she seems resigned
to part from one. Perhaps these were some more
of the things Barrie meant to represent every
woman as knowing. Anyhow, Lady Sybil duly
gets bored with her false-alarm statesman, and
he is disillusioned with her and made to appre-
ciate the need of his brainy little wife.
Harcourt Beatty skilfully suggests the
grim forcefulness of John Shand, and Nellie
Stewart is the most charming and artistic Maggie
conceivable. Fine character-sketches of middle-
class Scotsmen are provided by J. B. Atholwood,
Eardley Turner and Gregan Macuiahon. Others
who do w*dl are Miss Burroughs (as Lady Sybil),
Miss Meredith (Comtesse de la Briere) and
Norman Campbell.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion, “The Passing of the
Third Floor Back ” continues to draw big houses.
But “The Arcadians” looms, and so Jerome’s
play is in its last fortnight.
** * *
Muriel Matters is a clever girl. She found
out where the King’s Hall is after only a few days’
residence in Sydney. Very few people know of
the existence of the King’s Hall, which is a new
and very pretty and extremely clean hall, with
handsome green-plush curtains and many
mirrors, and has its location in Phi 11 ip-
street, not far from the Stamps Office.
In the Hall of Mirrors did Miss Matters
discourse on Monday night concerning the doings
of the suffragettes, herself among them. Her
object in lecturing here is to arouse Australian
sympathy for the militant feminines. By far the
most telling part of her lecture came on when the
pictures were shown. These are the Dailv
Mirror photos., and give a vivid series of views
of how the suffragettes “go on.” They are better
pictures (because not hackneyed) than Foster
Fraser had, and Muriel speaks better than
F. F., and looks much more attractive.
Her Holloway lecture ought to draw a
good house. The gem of the evening was
Arthur Balfour, walking along the street. The
camera just snapped him perfectly. Mrs. Des-
pard Trafalgar-squaring a large crowd was very
fine, and the cordon of police in Downing-street,
also, Mrs. Despard and Cobden’s daughter at the
door of No. 10 were so good that one could almost
breathe the fog. Fog is plainly visible in all the
photos, of London.
“A KNIGHT FOR A DAY,” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY'S.
A servant lady (Toby Claude) and a nice tall
Corsican (Herbert Clayton).
Probably owing to the near vicinity of the
Glorious Fourth, the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
on Thursday last broke out into Dvorak’s “New
World” Symphony, which serves up “Hail
Columbia,” “ The Star Spangled Banner,” “Cake
Walks ” and “ Nigger Serenades ” in a setting of
high-class music. Conductor Bradley rode on the
whirlwind of sound, and controlled it with his
naked hand—for he was minus a stick.
The orchestra also played “ The Siegfried Idyll,”
which was given with true Wagnerian feeling.
Andrew Black sang to the orchestral accompani-
ment, and received a great round of applause. It
is a great advantage to Sydney, as a musical centre,
to have a singer of A. Black’s calibre resident in
the city. The Town Hall was almost full of audi-
ence. The programmes, at 3d. each, sold like hot
cakes. Altogether, it was a thoroughly successful
concert.
* * * *
Dolores continues to charm her Sydney
audiences, and even the deaf adder would come a
long distance to hear her. On Saturday night a
big attendance showed its pleasure in her sweet
singing by making the little lady do twice as
much work as she was billed for. Old and new
songs came with the same fluency from the care-
fully-trained throat of Dolores. “ Ah, Fors elui ”
was the most florid and exacting of all
the evening’s work, and this was given with all
the moods which vary from loving reverie to
almost hysterical gaiety. An an expressionist,
this singer is quite mistress of the situation. Two
of Schumann’s melancholy little wails, the
“Lotushlume” and the “Nussbaum” were in
quite another vein; while “I Know That My
Redeemer Liveth ” was religious in tone.
Baritone Prouse gave “ Thou’rt Passing
Hence,” that dolorous ditty, with true feeling.
His liveliest mood was shown in “Queen
of Connemara.” He also received encores,
and could have gone on singing till further orders.
“Meagre” is the word to apply to the platform
decorations at these recitals. The potted palms
studding the organ seats at rare intervals look as
lonely as Heine’s celebrated “ Fechtenbaum,
while the chaste meekness of the six little white
pots all in a row along the front of the platform
makes one wonder if the management could really
spare them ?
** * *
Pip Powell and Kate Vesey burst on Aus-
tralia for the first time at Sydney Tivoli last
Saturday. They supplied a “ musical dialogue,
entitled “A Perfect Woman,” thereby occasion-
ing a packed house considerable gratification.
The turn of Liane de Lyle and M. Burnin is also
new. The twain do a freak act calculated to
make the inebriate who wastes his substance in
city billiard halls imagine he is watching his
favorite game with an attack of the horrors about
him. For the rest, Frank Travis, Charlene and
Charlene and Fanny Powers are still on deck and
doing well.
*# * #
At Adelaide Royal the public has rushed
“The Arcadians” so steadily that the manage-
ment somewhat ungratefully responds by playing
no other piece during the whole season. Crom-
well now directs the Arcadian who asks “What
is money?” to inquire of Crawford Vaughan
(instead of Lloyd George) ; but the jest is not
stupendous either way. The reply to a casual
mention of Pan—“ Peter? Oh, Pauline Chase
me!”—is faithfully persevered with, though it
naturally falls quite flat with audiences who know
only Tittell Brune in that connection. Arthur
Edwards deserves honorable mention for making
much out of a part that is nothing in
itself ; and Gertrude Gilliam, as the Irish
girl, steadily improves ; but Nellie Kavanagli
is not nearly as fat, vulgar, old or ugly as the
Smith female is constantly convicted of being.
The racehorse Dreamland -is a perfect gentleman,
and the house is brought down nightly by the
scene in which the whole co. follows the progress
of an imaginary race right round the dress-
circle. The Tivoli is making changes, theQuealys,
a singing Collier and Olive Lenton (with co.)
having come in. The magical Carter, however,
after making many ladies and smaller objects
disappear, has himself vanished. So has Brunin.
who batted billiard balls with his forehead, and
the fascinating Parisian who caught them in the
deep field, and who had mastered the art of wear-
ing the least possible clothing without impro-
priety. Also, exit Irving Sayles. He has been
useful in bucking-up the “ First Part.” No
stars will (seemingly) consent to appear in this
part of the programme, and the presence of a
dozen more or less handsome girls, sitting on
pasteboard rocks in Highland costume and look-
ing intensely bored, is not in itself a star attrac-
tion. It needed a strong humorist to carry off
the situation and fill in the pauses. I. Sayles was
the man for the job, and he earned his salary
however small it was.
** * *
“The Orchid,” which did not come from far
Peru, is still being carried around on an ice-cream
barrow at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). Also, it con-
tinues to transpire on the summit of Caroline’s
hat in the interior of the Opera House at Nice.
There are two more weeks for the Royal Comics
to run ere “Madame Butterfly” falls due, and
“The Orchid ” should be good for that period. It
is mostly madness, but it has method, and pretty
music and strange matrimonial entanglements that
tremble on the verge of impropriety. Moreover,
the morals of Caroline (who wears a crinoline in
this revival) have all the charm of mystery ; whilst
Zelie, the picturesque adventuress, encourages
the suspicion that her character matches her
clothes. In short, “The Orchid” is delicately
shocking, and very good of its kind.
** # *
At the Princess’s, the bright little story of
“Mr. Preedy and the Countess” is to close on
Friday night, and, for the last week of the Wil-
loughby co.’s season, a revival of “What Hap-
pened to Jones ” will be offered to Melbourne
once again. “Preedy,” notwithstanding the un-
fitness of David James for the character of the
meek hero, is about as humanly humorous as a
receptive audience can make it. “ Jones,” on the
other hand, provokes the loud larf which denotes
the lazy mind. So the large majority of the
public which wants its sense of the ridiculous to
be pelted with brickbats will probably expand
its breast to receive the missiles.
** * *
“The Merry Wives” is still blowing the
same old gale of prosperity at Melbourne Royal ;
but, in accordance with the demands of General
Desire, the farewell nights of the Asche season
will be given to revivals. Falstaff is to apostro-
phise his ungodly paunch for the last time on
Saturday. On Monday and Tuesday next week
the black Jack Johnson of Shakspearian drama
gets knocked out by the green-eyed monster;
then c&e night of “The Merchant,” and two of
“The Shrew,” and then—well, Matheson Lang
and “The Passing of the Third Floor Back” are
billed for the 23rd. Meanwhile, multitudes are
booking seats to witness the settings of the
Ascheian sun in its golden splendor.
* * * *•
At the King’s they are preparing to shift
the sailor who plunges blindfold into matrimony
and is rescued by the man with the evil eye. A
tremendous sporting drama by one Nat Gould,
the prolific author of sixpenny shockers, will
come to light on Saturday for the first time in
any part of the world, says the advt. All por-
tions of the universe have been competing
for the distinction of providing. Nat’s racing
drama with a birthplace, and Australia by the
grace of Anderson has secured it. “ The Chance
of a Lifetime ” is the title thereof, and the noblest
animal in the whole drama is a horse.
sif * an *
People on the outskirts of Melbourne
suburbs have had Bilanderson shows for nothing.
“ The Squatter’s Daughter” is being put into mov-
ing pictures. Four lots are to shriek their way
north, south, east and west of this continent—in
the country spaces where the redoubtable com-
pany cannot spread itself. The whole company,
with author Bert Bailey in command, rush out to
the country in a drag well supplied with sus-
taining hampers. Bailey has a “ clergyman’s sore
throat” (vide Peter Doody) through shouting in the
open-air staging. One thing the picture-audience
will have that the theatre is done out of— real
rides. The rides are only spoken in the Bellow,
but are ridden in the pictures. The cine-
matographing mummers have taken an expert
horsewoman with them —Mrs. Hasset—and when
the leading lady is through with her lines and her
stage seat on the horse, Mrs. Hasset whips on in a
twist of the film and races over slopes and hills
in her place. Bailey and Cross, however, have to
be their own horsemen. Mummers and horses
don’t go well in real life. Cross had a lovely spill
—splash into a creek. It made “good” copy for the
camera, but Cross had to borrow odd articles of


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for
subjects constantly arriving,
parts, and accessories stocked.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street,
hire —new
Machines,
Write.
Sydney. I
A minute’s delay in treating some cases of
croup—often the length of time it takes to go for
a doctor—frequently proves fatal. To save worry
keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in
the house, and at the first indication of croup give
the child a dose. Pleasant to take and always
cures. *
attire from members of the co., and retire behind
a tree before his next turn.
*• * * #
Of the present gang of pictures at "W est’s
Melbourne show, “ Werther ” is too uncommon a
theme for ordinary consumption. The sensitive
may weep over the tragedy of Goethe’s hero, but
the average snigger at his phases of amorous
idiocy. “An Indian Scout’s Vengeance” is a
howl of farce and ferocity. “Foolshead as A
Porter’ is popular; it suggests humor tied to an
earthquake and driven by a cvclone. “Scenes in
Rio Janeiro” are not more interesting than
“Scenes in Annani,” which shows that the differ-
ence between East and West is a matter of tem-
perament as well as of color. For instance, in
their funerals, the Annamese display a nonchal-
ance that contrasts oddly with our desperate
solemnity on similar occasions.
#* * #
On Saturday Tait’s Pictures appeared at
the Melbourne Town Hall. They include in
“Thou Shalt Not” a doleful lecture to hu-
manity. It is meant to suggest that consumptives
should not marry ; but it is a curious affair, of a
kind which few care about or even understand.
Something more pleasurable is depicted in “ The
Tree of Happiness,” which has a definite spirit of
phantasy; while “The Persuasive Revolver,’’a
comic scene, provides some clever poses and
affectations.
** * *
The Taits announce some more final re-
appearances of the Besses Band—at Melbourne
Exhibition Building, on Saturday and Sunday
next. Also, Frank Speaight, from America, is
booked for a series of Dickens recital at the
Athenseum Hall, in place of Tait’s pictures. The
new man, who was to start last night, brings a
reputation for being the brightest Dickens enter-
tainer in the business.
* * *• *
At the Opera House, the Kremo acrobats
—nine of them—have established a reputation for
being more versatile in their “ Risley ” line of
industry than any previous family party. Their
work is done rapidly, and some of their variations
on old effects are very ingenious. Yet. for the
most part, the turn is as old as the Cragg Family
of yore. The small boy who gets kicked from
feet to feet by his upended elders, like a parcel, is
a familiar traveller, and in this and other respects
the work seems to lack a little of a graceful
finish. The Babe’s Postcard Album is a likable
living-picture item; and Mendel, the blind
pianist, comes as a gentle inflection to the gallery
that delights in the piercing refrains of Keeton’s
songs. Mendel’s playing is mildly mechanical,
and as an exponent of memory feats on the piano
he is not likely to set the Yarra ablaze.
“Edyson It all happened within a few miles of Mel-
bourne. The unprotected “gyurl,” wearing l the long,
black, flowing cape that is the badge of the fallen female
in the yellow drama, wandered hatless across the forest
glade, artlessly gathering the beautiful wild flowers that
bestrewed her path. From behind a gum-bole crept a
froward wretch, clad in the frock-coat and high polished
hat of successful villainy. He threw aside his cigarette,
regardless of cost, and advancing upon the unprotected
maid, addressed her in language unbecoming an officer
and a gentleman. The poor girl retorted with some
spirit, whereupon the bell-toppered infamy rushed
in and seized her by both arms. Then began
a struggle awful in its intensity, though per-
haps somewhat monotonous in its route. Up and
down, up and down wrestled the ill-matched pair. The
poor girl’s strength was rapidly failing here but aid was
at hand, unexpected, unsolicited. A large, lumpy youth
chanced along the wheel track in a hay-cart, and lumber-
ing heavily on to the scene he brought his mutton fist
on the top hat, drove it down like an extinguisher
on the stunned monster, and kicked him in mid-air as he
fell. Then the spheres were rent by the voice of the
stage manager roaring: “You infernal idiot! You
blistered blitherer! Couldn’t you see we were only
acting a scene for the living pictures?”
Charles Hayes, for 40 years secretary of
the Sydney Royal Exchange, has resigned, owing
to ill-health. A well-known city figure was
Hayes, and he was seen everywhere until laid low
by a paralytic stroke a few years ago. Though a
useful citizen, Hayes’s charge is a useless excres-
ence, and most of Hayes’s life was spent in striv-
ing to find excuses for the existence of the
establishment, and consequently of his job. A
really fine subject for an essay at any commercial
examination in the business world would be:
“ Why is the Royal Exchange ? ”
Wanted from the Tory press, a definition
of that remarkable term, “the States.” Take the
Herald as a sample and consider this statement:
The guarantee to the States of 255. a head for 10 years
is welcome, although the States would have liked the
distribution to be permanent.
Now the question was put to the States last
April, and the States voted by a large majority
that they didn’t want anything of the kind. The
Herald and its kind try to pass off Kidston.
Wade, Murray and tlie rest as “ the States.” Bui)
they aren’t—not by a tankful.
“J.”: A blessed result of the recent
defeat of the Caucasian at the hands of Africa is
that no idiot has been enabled to rise and say :
“ Woddiditellyer? It was a ramp. They had'it
fixed for Jeff to win from the start,” Nothing
but the defeat of Burns would have convinced a
lot of people here that Johnson hadn’t been hired
to lie down. “ All Burns’s fights have been
bought,” one heavy bettor gravely assured the
writer. Most of Jeffries’s backers seem to have
piled their money on him on this insane ground.
They took the view of Governor Gillette, of Cali-
fornia, who, according to the Chicago Examiner,
said :
I believe it is a “frame-up.” Johnson has very little
to lose. If he makes a good showing against the un-
beaten champion it will be a great honor in itself. If he
can win enough to make him independent for life by
allowing Jeffries to regain the title, I think he will do it.
But eliminating the “ frame-up,” what chance has John-
son ?
There is a type of sporting expert whose alleged
intellect is so filled with ramps, swindles and
stiffenings that he hasn’t any timefor the obvious.
He lives in a visionary world, whose inhabitants
do things not because they pay but because they
are dishonest. Yet it sometimes pays to be
honest.
It is not surprising that, within comparatively
recent j’ears, natural aperient waters have so consistently
come to be recognised as one of Nature’s benign gifts to
mankind. Why a natural aperient water should"be in-
comparably more efficacious than artificial sal s, powders
puls, etc., can only be ascribed by scientists to the im-
portant fact that “it is Nature’s inimitable handi-
work ; man s artifice has dismally failed to produce anv
remedy approaching it. “ Hunvadi Janos,” natural
aperient water, has been largely prescribed for nearly
half a_ century for constipation, biliousness, disordered
digestion and liver complaints ; and should be taken in
the morning on rising in doses of a wineglassful or more
mixed with hot water.* ’
AT POVERTY POINT.
Even the flickergraph shows are being invaded by the
nobles of Hingland in the search for notoriety or tucker.
The latest one to hang his coronet on the handle of the
stage door is Viscount Mountmorres. He was given a
job by the genial T. J. West (“ West’s Pictures”) at the
Queen’s Hall, Edinburgh, to announce the names of his
cobbers in the kerridges as they passed across the screen
in the photograph of Edward Vll.’s funeral procession.
West paid a good sum for this piece of enterprise, and
the live peer was as great a draw as the dead king. The
Sydney end of the West Pictures firm could have made
even a better deal. There is a full-sized peer who is bar-
man in a Sydney pub within a beer-bottle throw of the
Palace Theatre, and he would have cheerfully called the
kerridges that made old England’s name for ss. a night.
“MR. PREEDY
AND THE
COUNTESS
AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
George Willoughby
as John Bounsall,
of the Bounsall
Emporium.
Hurry Halley as Bilson, Preedy’s Manservant.
The well-known illusionist, Charles Wade, whose long
engagement with Mr. N. S. Wales is drawing to a
close, appeared at the Marrickville Hall, Sydney, last
Saturday night with his “political handcuff” t,urn.
Practically it was the same as that which he has been
showing in the various suburban halls for some
time past, and which was, to some extent, re-
sponsible for the disturbance on April 13 last—when
his managers warned him that unless half the fake
“ business” was cut out, and the rest of the turn brought
up t<> date, somebody would be “resting” before long.
Shortly afterwards Charlie announced a change of
programme, which was to include a number of
illusions and a boxing exhibition by Bert Wood, his
assistant. These illusions were to have included’ the
production of a number of public characters, such
as Peter Bowling, members of the Labor ’ party
in the State Assembly, B. R. Wise, K.C., Mr. McCauley
(of the Prisons Department) and others in startling-
colors. Unfortunately something went wrong with the
mechanism, and at no single performance was a solitary
figure shown. On each occasion the audience was sent
away disappointed. It was only natural, therefore, that
when the performer announced at the Marrickville Hall
on Saturday night that he had in preparation another
mystery entitled “Something that Peter Bowling Has
Not Yfet Heard,” it should be received with ironical howls
by those present. The entertainment will be repeated
until September, when the performer’s contract will
expire.
H. Singemoine’s ” valedictory: Julius Knight
leaves Australia, probably for good, after some 14
years on the local boards. His career here has been
remarkable in various ways. He has acted in most
parts of the Commonwealth and M.L. No bagman
knows the towns, roads and pubs of Australia betti r than
he does. And he has played an astounding variety of
parts. He has starred while here in Wilson Barrett
parts (Marcus Superbus, Claudian and Wilfrid Denver);
■''George Alexander parts (Rudolph Rassendyll and
Villon in “If I Were King”); in Waller parts(Be.iucaire,
Brigadier Gerard and Robin Hood); in Tree parts (Dimi-
tri inj‘ Resurrection,"andZakkuri in “The Darlingof the
Gods ”); in Du Maurier and Martin Harvey parts (Raffles,
arid Reresby in “The Breed of the Treshams”); in
Forbes Robertson, Herbert Waring, Fred Terry and
Henry Irving parts ; and, incidentally, he has presented
Shavvian comedy and American drama. In London the
actor specialises. Forbes Robertson wouldn’t essay'
a Tree role; if he did he would certainly be damned
by the critics. It is impossible to imagine Du Maurier —
finished artist as he is in his own line—in a Lewis Waller
part, or Waller in a Martin Harvey part, or either of them
as an Irving character. Julius Knight is a curiosity,
inasmuch as he has handled the roles of all these special-
ists, and in noneofthem can he be said to have failed,
while in most he has been astonishingly successful. In
addition, he has personally produced practically every
play' he has appeared in ; which is to say, he has chosen
the dresses, arranged the stage, blended the colors,
managed the groupings, fixed the exits and entrances,
and generally attended to every lightest detail. It says
something for the grip of Julius that in all the years he
has been he>e, the Australian theatre-going public—a
notoriously'critical, not to say carping, crowd—has not
tired of him. The J.C.W. people owe him the benefit of
a generation. As a producer he was the equal of anyone
they could have imported, and he drew the crowds to
the last.
The way of the parson becomes more strenuous as
Time widens the outlook of mankind. In the years long
past, the job of running a church was easy. Hell was
kept in the backyard, so to speak, and the sinner was
afraid to put the light out o’ nights for fear the Devil
should leap through the window and pluck his (the
sinner’s) soul out, raw and smoking, for his supper. Hot
soul with sulphur sauce was a great dish at the Sheol
CafC in those day's. But gradually Socialistic legislation
drove the Devil out of the country ; Hell was dislodged,
in a manner of speaking, when the City Councils started
to lay down drains; and the parson had to fall back
on other expedients. The list of these is too long to set
out, but the last stun t wasat Whangarei(M.L-). Jones Bros.’
buck-jumping entertainment was recently’ pitched there.
The ringmaster had called for the usual volunteers to
ride an outlaw named Lively Kitty, and the first man
over the ropes was Jasper Calder, the local parson. For
a moment the ringmaster was overcome with the belief
that the parson was about to enter a public protest at
the exhibition, but it was not so. The parson had come
to ride, and ride he d ; d. No effort of the outlaw could
get rid of the ecclesiastic, and the audience rose as a man
and cheered a hole in tin- tent. The following night the
parson was at the show again, this time to be pres nted
with a specially-struck mi d 1. Since then his tabernacle
has been crowded, and his job is on a solid financial
footing.
The recent appearance of Lalla Miranda at Covent
Garden in place of the indisposed Melba is another re-
minder of the fact that Australia has forgotten to be
duly proud of its second best singer. Yet the dark-eyed
Melbourne girl has been far and away the most successful
of the professionals who have left this country. Melba
was the am iteur who changed her name before she ever
sang in ope a for a fee, whereas Lalla Miranda often ap-
peared in opera scenes at Melb. Exhibition concerts ere
she went to Europe and became a Continental '* -tar.”
Her “ prime ” has many years still to run. She is 39.
“M.P.”: Actor Roy' Redgrave has created a new
bellowdrama entitled “ The Black Streak,” or “ One Man
Against the World.” The play deals with politics and
the suffragette movement in dear old Hingland. The
same mummer is at work on Hall Caine’s “Christian,”
with the idea of compiling yet another version for the
stage—as though we wanted it! “ The Black Streak,” by
the way, sounds very like a party by the name of John-
son.
“Snell”: I have just picked up a dodger which looks
as though it had been printed with an odd lot of nineteenth
century type on a butcher’s block with a maul. This publi-
cation aunounc s a concert in the vicinity of Port Mel-
bourne, and intimates that bottles will be taken at the
door. The price of admission is 3d. or three beer bottles
—children half-price. I assume that yon could pass a
child in for a bottle and a half, or a bottle and a half-
penny. The announcement, “Carriages at halfpast
ten,” reads like a flight of fancy.
“Adelaide”: What is the exact bond between stage
imitations and personal refinement ? Does one give imi-
tations because one is refined, or does refinement come
with the giving of them ? It is the charming Olga Grey
and Fanny Powers that I have particularly in mind.
Also, I notice that Cecilia Loftus has returned to London
with a new batch of characters. (She flies high,
undertaking Clara Butt, Harry Lauder and Caruso,
among others ; and the ordinarily critical London Rkfkref.
says: “All uniformly true to life; in the art of
mimicry of this kind she is the Limit.”) When she
first appeared, in the early ’nineties, Justin Huntley
McCarthy wrote a poem to say that on the music-
hall stage she looked like a nymph among satyrs, a
primrose among tulips, and that kind of thing. Also he
made her acquaintance and married her, so he backed
his opinion in the most practical way. And I suppose
that if a young Australian of to-day were taking home to
his mother a bride from the music-hall stage, there is
nobody he might introduce with more confidence of
giving satisfaction than Miss Powers or Miss Grey.
“Cockaigne”: Manager Edwardes starts his auto-
biography in the Strand. His mentors were D’Oyly
Carte and his wife, an astonishing woman. She would
work in the Savoy Theatre from eight in the morning till
1~ at night (like Bland Holt). Edwardes’s first hit was
with Ellen Farren and Leslie in “Jack Sheppard.” Next
he forced “ Dorothy " along for six months, losing money
gently all the time. He sold “ Dorothy ”to a manager
who made a pile with it in the country, then fetched
it back to London, and made another. “The Lady
Dandies” cost Edwardes £lO,OOO to stage, and £l6OO a
week. It failed. So at first did “San Toy” ami “The
Country Girl,” but they' picked up. The Gaiety is the
only safe place in London for musical comedy'. At other
houses it may hit or it may slump. Shoals of trouble
with actors and actresses, because they' want to do what
they can’t, and won’t do what they can. Kate Vaughan,
the peerless dancer, introducer of lace petticoats, could
not sing a note. Yet she would not act unless two or
three songs vvi re stuck in for her. Very few musical
comedies pay their way in London. The managers have
to recoup by taking the “great London success” to
America, Australia and the British country towns.
Harry Lawson, who presumes to be the champion club-
swinger of the world, has aroused the indignation of
Thomas Burrows, wdio considers that he can wave wood
as lengthily as anybody else. So he is calling loudly for
Lawson to come to Melbourne and flourish silly pieces of
tree in a world’s championship competition. And there
are possibilities that Lawson will consent to make one in
the dreary performance of hitting the atmosphere.
“Theorbo”: In Melbourne we had seven halls giving
the biograph of King Edward’s funeral at the same time.
All the funeral marches of Chopin, Handel, Beethoven,
Tschaikowsky, etc., were ransacked. Chopin won. He
has the wail of poignant, hopeless despair.' There is an
undercurrent of hope in Handel’s “Saul,” as with the
strange undercurrent of joy in Rubens even when he
paints divine sorrow. Boor Chopin ! The vampire
woman Dudevant had eaten the heart out 6f him, as with
De Musset and others. How Chopin, by the massed
bands, thrilled 100,000 people outside Melbourne Parlia-
ment House !
Lardelli, once a well-known musician in Sydney, died
on Friday at Charters Towers (Queensland). He com-
posed hundreds of songs, piano pieces and other works,
and when dwelling beside the harbor of Port Jackson
was a teacher of music with a strong following of pupils.
He came to Sydney close on 30 years ago. For a time he
was a church organist at Maitland, and afterwards he
organed at St. Mary’s, Waverley. For health reasons he
removed some years ago to Queensland, and practised
first at Charleville and afterwards at Charters Towers.
Resting in the Old Men’s Home at Bendigo is Mr. Sam
Diamond, who, in the ’so’s of the centu y that was num-
bered 19, played with G. V. Brooke, and was clown in
the early circuses. In the good days of the Shamrock
Theatre and Music Hall—the days of Cowper and Heffer-
nan—when Sara Flower was getting £3O a week, Mr.
Diamond was also flourishing as a singer and step-dancer.
The old gentleman is in good health, and drifts happily
enough down the slope of years which gets so remarkably
steep towards the end.
It seems that {rood old Melbourne Waxworks is not
dead, after all; therefore all obituary notices can be con-
sidered as cancelled for the present. In a moment, of
indiscretion the Waxworks changed its name to a Picture
Show, and cleared its main hall of the amusing' evidences
of its historical past; but the effigies that formerly stood
around and gazed at the casual visitor are still‘on the
premises. Some of the most revered subjects are
crowded into t he Chamber of Horrors at the back of the
new cinematograph screen, whilst others are stored awav
from public view. The Waxworks is not dead, hut
dozing—in the background, under an alias. A deep
mourning hand has been removed from Thk Bulletin's
hat, also a load is lifted from its heart, and with a smile
of relief it, wishes the venerable Kreitmever establish-
ment a happy new murder and many of them.
“THE MERRY WIVES OF
WINDSOR” AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL.
Falstaff (Oscar Asche) dis-
guised as the Witch.
R. F. Anson as
Simple.
One of the best commentaries on his downfall was
the publication of two photographs of Jeffries from
the untouched negatives of a press photographer.
They showed Jeffries as he retired from the ring in 1903
and as he re-entered it in 1910. The difference was
appalling. The two were the same man in name only.
The Jeffries of 1903 was a vast, hard, sinewy man, who
tapered down in graceful lines from shoulders to feet.
The Jeffries of 1910 looked like an illustration from
Wells’s “ Food of the Gods,” ora bloated baby advertise-
ment for someone’s arrowroot biscuits or other grease-
making food. Unfortunately, as far as Australia was
concerned, the pictures were not printed till the morn-
ing of the fight. Then all who saw said good-bye to
Jeffries’s chances.
Jeffries is still taking his defeat very badly, and
the possibility of losing the sight of one of itis eyes is not
calculated to remove the depression. Anyhow, he can
thank his stars he sold his share in the pictures for
a good sum, as the picture people seem about to strike
trouble. The United States is threatening wholesale
prohibition, Britain is being urged to follow suit, and
South Africa and India are certain to block them. It is
doubtful whether they can be prohibited in Australia if
the promoters take the case to the Federal Courts,
but of course Federal legislation might do the deed.
In India and Africa power undoubtedly rests with the
Governments to do as they darned well please in the
matter. But if the British Empire and the U.S.A. are
both closed, there still remains South America, Mexico,
France, Italy, Spain and Russia where they are not likely
to be interfered with. Germany is dead against pugilism
either in the ring or on the screen, so the name of the
promoters there will be Mud. Austria is an unknown
quantity.
The management of West’s Pictures announce that, at
an early date, they will introduce an innovation in the
moving picture entertainment under the title of “ West’s
Journal of daily news.” The events of the day will be
illustrated by means of the biograph, and what the morn-
ing papers supply for a literary breakfast West’s Pictures
will illustrate for an amusement supper.
Conan Doyle’s prize-ring play, “ The House of Tem-
perley,” with two fights in it (one with gloves and one
without) has finished a solid five-months’ run in London,
and ought to be seen in Australia soon. Edmund
Gwenn was one of the fighters. It has been replaced at
the Adelphi by another Conan Doyle drama, “ The
Speckled Band,” which is a snake story with Sherlock
Holmes as its centre. A. S. Homewood and Miss Agnes
Thomas, both well and favorably known in Australia, are
in this.
THE WOWSER CALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Methodists have passed resolutions requesting the
Prime Minister to prevent the introduction of the Jeffries-
Johnson fight films into the Commonwealth.— Daily
paper.
The news flickered through that the black had won,
And riots had started ’twixt black and white ;
So up like a rabbit before a stun
A terrified wowser leaped in affright ;
He fled down a column of pitch-black ink,
Squealing incessantly, “ Do not drowse !
Sleep not, my brothers, another wink !
Agitate ! Agitate ! Up and, wowse ! ”
They poured from their holes like a nest of ants ;
They buzzed from their corners like worried bees ;
And swarmed to the battle with puffs and pants.
(Their valor and dust made the whole world sneeze.)
They shrilled to the heavens : “ No soul must see
These pictures grim of expensive rows !
Shriek, brothers ! Shriek for a stern decree !
Agitate! Agitate! Up and ivowse ! ”
The call of the pack in their dens aroused
Slow, out-of-date wowsers in parts remote ;
And into the open they fled and wowsed
Each swelling - the tumult by one wild note
The world heard the howls in the outer dark
And feared awhile for its sheep and'cows ;
Then laughed as it caught the wowser bark :
Agitate ! Agitate ! Up and woivse !
The pig’s deep grunt and the tom cat’s howl,
The tripehound’s wailing unto the moon
Are melody sweet to the wowser yowl
When the pack are after a coal-black coon ;
They leap at the shadows that dance before
(For wowser frenzy the law allows),
But common-sense locks and bars the door
Whenever wowsers begin to wowse.
N.B.W.
HOLAMOSKS.
AN EX-MUMMER WRITES A LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thanks to the cinematograph, actors may now see
themselves act. Weekly paper.
Dear Brother in the Histrionic Art,
This comes to say—l prithee do not start,
Or have a fit when you these lines shall read—
I’ve chucked the stage for good—played my last part!
There now, it’s out! It’s eased me ever so
To make confession to a brother pro.,
Who shared my grease-paint, borrowed oft my props,
And sneaked my “ wheezes ” in the mimic show.
Yes, left the boards. I even do admit
Through the stage-door on rubbers did I flit,
I never asked the Press to note the fact,
And never begged a farewell benefit.
Just went! Retired quite gracefully, I trust,
Made my last bow and shook the playhouse dust
From off my feet. N.B.—Wardrobe for sale—
Weep not, or, if you must weep—well, you must.
The reason was the cinematograph—
We used to curse that rival show—not half
Enough. “ ’Tis ridicule that kills,” and think
What price when at yourself you have to laugh !
When we’d been “taken,” all the companee
Invited were the picture-play to see,
Our counterfeit presentments to applaud ;
Novel experience—l’d gaze on me!
But as the film unrolled, myself I saw
Displaying acting pitifully raw,
Nay, worse—’twas ludicrous the show I made,
I burst (as all did) in a wild guffaw.
I 1< ft the show, not waiting for the end—
I'd seen myself as others see me, friend !
Quite disillusioned, on the stage a fraud,
No longer off the stage would I pretend.
I thought that I could act—pretentious rot! —
The pictures advertise that I can not ;
And ere the gods on me just vengeance wreak,
Twere best to “get.” I’ve changed my name and yol!
Farewell, old friend, pal of the dressing-room,
Prosper ye well. Soon as a “ star” you’ll boom,
I hope. But take a friendly tip : Don’t let
The craze for pictures lure you to your doom !
N.S.W.
EARDLRY TURNER.


MSB
i
te‘. I
MODELS—
-7 H.P. 1 CYLINDER
... to ...
70 H.P. 6 Cylinders
Illustrated Catalogues
posted on application.
Enquiries should state
approximate horse-
power and style of car
required.
The Very Best Motor Cars for AUSTRALIAN USE
are those Imported by Dalgety 8 Company Limited.
The above statement is a real fact, for Dalgety’s Car
of the advantages they offer to the Colonial buyer,
use are specially equipped to
stand our rough conditions.
Agencies were specially selected on account
Apart from this, all models for Australian
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
By Special
Appointment
kjhljk
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS/ 00 ™-
THE CATERER. Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding: Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Snecial Supervision and on Continental lines.
P NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Rinir up No. 2 Aseot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
Footballers.
After the match is won or lost, try Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment for all bruises and strains. It
will.make you fit for your next struggle. Obtain-
able everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE CHANTICLER HAT-SHOP.
THE LADY: “ Please , I want to buy a hat."
SHOPMAN: “ Certainly, madam; which breed?"
“ 0.K.” : Josiah Thomas, P.M.G., soems
b°nt on introducing the toll system into the lele-
phone Department ; therefore the Tory press, on
behalf of those luxurious members of the com-
munity who yarn to their friends by the hour
together, is protesting against the innovation.
From the business man’s point of view any change
in the existing ’phone system will be welcome if
it effects an improvement in the service. The tele-
phone service has deteriorated since the Common-
wealth Government took it from State control. The
wires, seemingly, are oftener out of order, and
the “ attendance ” at both the Central Exchange
and the suburban exchanges—particularly the
latter —is less ready and obliging than of yore.
Some of the suburban exchanges are notoriously
difficult to “get on to.” When at last one does
“ get on,” it is only to receive the prompt reply
that the number which was inquired for is
“engaged.” The present service is unsatisfac-
tory.” °A toll system will necessitate a more
active and alert service, and if this can be ob-
tained mainly at the expense of private users,
who are the most expensive class, the value of
the ’phone as a business agent will be greatly in-
creased. As to whether Thomas, P.M.G., will
make it more profitable to the Exchequer, there
are not yet any figures for the Tory press to
make a song about. The shrill note of protest is
merely the expression of a conjecture which is
probably false.
“ Red Tape, Junior ” (Sydney) :
A chap in the Board’s office told me that £70,000 is
voted (or Wade’s salary increases, and I said “ Hoo-
blanky-ray 1 ” and he said, “ What are you hooraj'ing at,
you silly ass? Don’t you know that about a million
policemen and hundreds of thousands of school-teachers
and the whole crowd in the general division, and the
blighters under £l5O, and the messenger-kids all have to
come out of the £70,000 ; and Lord only knows how many
policemen there are : there were a devil of a crowd at the
football match, and they all get 6d. a day ; and last yi ar
the public-school teachers got a rise, and they mopped
up £60,000 off their own bat; and, look at you any
way, you got £lO increase in 1906. What more do
you want? And the Board are asking for a list
of Johnnies who got rises since 1906, and they want a
report on everybody’s conduct and punctuality and dili-
gence and docility and efficiency ; so where do you come
in, you perfect rotter? And, anyway, nobody’ll get rises
unless the Board knows their aunt or something else in
their favor, and you haven’t an aunt; so go and hooray
away and vote for Wade ; but I won’t, though I didn’t
tell him so, for you never know, and even 3d. a week rise
is something.”
* * * »
“Stony”: There is quite a number of
old-age pensioners in our neighborhood. They
are all full of conversation, have long white beards
at the feet of their crimson faces, and follow an
occup ition besides that of pensioner—one which
should cause their names to be remembered as
men who have served their country faithfully and
well. One and all, they pursue the job of
nurse-girl. At 11 o’clock every morning each of
them prams it to a rendezvous in the park near
by. The prams are assembled close to a rustic
seat; the old-ugers, sitting down, crowd side by
each ; pipes are lighted and talk begins. By this
simple means the howling-kid problem is solved
by a bunch of busy mothers, for washing morn-
ings and day-work engagements at least. The
old-age pensioners also have their reward, for
they have the same opportunity for yards of yarn
and fathoms of smoke, as does the plutocrat in
his Club—and what more does the average man
want when he is over 65?
* * * *
“ Vagabond,” from Wellington (M.L.) :
I don’t think it’s fair that Australia should have all the
credit of possessing places with possibilities in the way
of dropping stones down the chimneys, and I’m here
to pur. in a claim for Maoriland. The capital city, as
Wellingtonians love to hear it called, or the Wind Bag,
as storm-tossed visitors describe it (I haven’t given the
adjectives they som times add; you wouldn’t print
them, anyhow !) takes a bit of beating in that line. The
houses there are usually built with the door on the street
level. You enter the front door, and go down one or
two flights of stairs into the bedrooms, and then, when
you expect to find yourself in a deep and darksome
"dungeon, you go to the window and look out, and find
that you are looking down the chimneys of the house in
the terrace below. Another popular kind of house is the
one where you walk up a steep winding road, turn off
through a little garden gate, puff up a one-in-two
grade path, climb a soaring flight of ladder-like
steps, and then hang on to the door handle till you get
breath enough to answer whoever comes when you ring.
You must keep your eye on the door. If you turn round
and look down the ascent you might get giddy and
fall off. I always used to feel like one of the characters
out of “ Ivanhoe” when I went to one of these houses.
It seemed so specially adapted for the rolling downpf
rocks or the pouring of molten lead on the heads of the
invaders, and it required h irdl.v any effort of the imagi-
nation to make me grip my trusty umbrella and hold the
path against 10,000 while the drawbridge was being
wound up.
How the people get their furniture in these houses is a
fascinating mystery. They could carry the coal up in
handfuls ; but they couldn’t do that with a grand piano,
niche to build a house in is easily made by digging
out a hole in the face of the hill and building the back
part of the house on the ground and the front part on a
platform jutting out over the edge and supported by
props. It is a usual thing to see a notice-board sticking
out on the edge of an almost perpendicular cliff and
bearing a notice that “ This Desirable Residential Build-
ing Site is for Sale.” ...
Considering the number of playful little ’quakes they
have there, you might think the inhabitants of these
bird-nest dwellings would be afraid of getting shaken off
into the street down town. But they take the situation
philosophically.
I haven’t seen a funeral there, and I’ve never been to
the cemetery, so I can’t speak with any authority on the
final roosting place of the dead. But if I thought I was
to die there I should want to make arrangements
to have a long cable attached to my wooden overcoat, wi th
the end taken up over the brow of the hill and made fast
to a patent anchor on the other side. And I should have
a balloon for my hearse. I have always wanted to go to
my long home in a balloon.
* * * *
“ Bloggs ” : I found this in my morning
paper last week :
GUILLOTINE REPLACES SWORD.
For. Exkcutions in China.
TOR.TURK TO BK ABOLISHKD.
London, Wednesday Afternoon.—China has imported
the first guillotine. Henceforth the executions will not
be carried out in public, and tortures will be abolished.
And straightway there surged in me a great
sympathy with the poor old Tory Chow. It is
heart-breaking to think of all the anguish and dread
that must have run riot among the “Liberals”
of Cliowdom since tbe above change came into
force. What is the Chinese equivalent for “the
time is not yet ripe? ” I can close my eyes, and
in fancy hear Broo Smiff and Ko Chook assuring
each other shudderingly oven the birds’-nest soup
that now, indeed, lawlessness will break loose
and the public streets be unsafe for right-thinking
Chinamen. Also, I can picture their grief at the
mad exoerimental idea of displacing Private En-
terprise sword-experts by State-owned execution
machines, and I can catch their moans anent the
callous iniquity of taking the bread out of the
mouths of an army of honest, high-minded tor-
turers, to satisfy some sentimental demagogue’s
whim. In short, the Tory Chow sees Sosh on the
horizon and fears that the Constitution is in great
danger.
WHY BLACK BRUDDER WON.
PARSON : “I didn't see you in church last Sunday, Mr. Plugger."
TLUGGER (shortly): "I've left it."
PARSON: “I am, excessively grieved to hear that! May I ask why?"
PLUGGER : “ Well, if our parsons had prayed, too, Jeff might ’re WON!”
From Webster’s Dictionary (1910 edi-
tion) :
YES-NO Favoring, in some measure, both sides of a
question when they are generally regarded a «
callv opposed; “carrying water on both shoulders,
triinming-Yes-No, ».i.-Yes-Noer, n-Yes-Noism, n.
“ What points of public policy are touched on receive a
gingerly Yes-No treatment.”—Sydney Bulletin.
It is the nearest approach to immortality that
George Reid will ever achieve, and he owes it to
the paper which he says he only reads in the
barber’s chair.
* * * *
A Buddhist monk from Burmah is just
now in Australia, looking for converts. Ap-
parently, he is a Scotchman by irreligious per-
suasion-his family name is Stevenson, anyhow.
But now he wears a long yellow robe, .and calls
himself Sasana Dhaji, and travels as a missionary
for Buddhism. Unfortunately, Stevenson
Dlmji is too late in the field. His adopted
ancient faith may he better worth preaching
than the “Christianity” of the white races,
but as it demands a good deal of
wholesome piety from its disciples,
the good gentleman hasn’t Buck-
ley’s chance of getting a “flock
together. A mean, contemptible
Buddhist can’t achieve much sal-
vation seemingly, and he knows
it. That’s the point. He realises
his deficiencies and is conscious of
being d—-d. Whereas the mean,
contemptible Kerristian often en-
joys a nice, comfortable belief in
his own salvation. The snuffle-
busters wouldn’t exchange their
blessed hypocrisy for honest Budd-
hism—not for aIT the tea in China.
The Other fellows are indifferent
as to the exact heading they are going to be
d—— d under.
* * * *
Oliver Cromwell's head has been the
subject of recent correspondence between a
Cheltenham (Eng.) citizen and Lewis Harcourt,
Commissioner of Works in the present British
Government and a direct descendant of the long-
deceased Protector. The Cheltenham man asked
that Cromwell’s embalmed head—which is a dis-
puted relic in the possession of a certain Wilkinson
family—should be seized by the Crown as a matter
of right and “re-interred in Westminster Abbey,
from which it was exhumed in 1661.” Harcourt
is not unsympathetic to the idea, but suggests
that Mr. Wilkinson will have to willingly sur-
render his relic and establish its genuineness
before the question of re-interment in West-
minster Abbey is decided. The correspondence
makes an interesting commentary on a passage in
John Evelyn’s Diary (January, 1661) re the body-
snatching of poor old Noll by the son of the King
he had beheaded. Saith the pious Evelyn :
This diy (O the stupendous and inscrutable judgments
ot God i) were the carcasses of those arch rebells, Crom-
ivell Bradsh nv and Iteton, dragged out of their superb
tombs in Westminster among the kings, to Tvburne, and
handed from nine in the morning till six at night, and
then buried under that fatal and ignominious monument
in a deepe pitt, thousands of people who had seen them
in all their pride being specrators. Looke back at
Oliver’s funeral (Nov. 22nd, 1658) and be astonished, and
feareGod and honor the King ; but meddle not with them
who' are given to change.
“ Myee ” writes in flat contradiction :
Your contributor “Oby” (If. 7’/7/’10) may know bis
catechism correctly, but lie is hopelessly mixed regaining
the salarv paid to the rector at St. Janiess. the re.
maceration is £750 per year, with residence and wedding
fees and extras— the whole is supposed to total tioou
per annum. The least amount paid to a curate is
£2OO per annum, and the church supports three
when it can get them. Your correspondent has evi-
dently heard that the endowment fund pays £l5O per year
towards the rector’s stipend and £5O towards that of one
curate. But- St. James’s is a very wealthy fane. It was
built and endowed bv King George IV. before the Church
was disestablished hi N.S.W. However, the endowment
fund can only be spent on certain things—restoration of
the church and church property, etc.—so the corigrega-
t.ion is expected to contribute the funds to keep the
church going. The statement that the church
does not gather •up a heavy plate is also in-
correct. The congregation of St. James’s not only con-
tributes enough to pay its parsons good stipends—full
LONG CREDIT.
BELL: "Did he propose last night?"
NELL: “ Yes; but he destroyed the poetry of it
all.”
BELL: “ Howl ”
NELL: “ Asked me if I would trust him with mil
whole heart and soul; and when I whispered
‘ Yes’ he said he wished to Heaven I reeve
his tailor.”
union rates and over— but it also supports several mis-
sionaries in Papua, is the largest contributor to Sydney
Hospital (see Hospital Sunday Fund), and gives hby rally
to every charity and movement connected with me
Anglican Church. There are many poor parishes aha
poor churches that might benefit by a fair division of trie
“spoil,” but St. James’s is not one of them.
THE UMBRELLA: INSIGNIUM OF RESPECT-
ABILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I recently saw a well-dressed, respectable-looking man
about to enter the dock at the Quarter Sessions Court,
carrying his umbrella. This particular prisoner was
told'by the Judge, when the jury acquitted him, that
he was a perfectly innocent man.— J. J. Kiely in S. M.
Herald.
Discharged ! Of course ! Who’d gaol a man that wore
Virtue’s indubitable stamp ?
The hum in beimr never lived who shore
A mug, or thieved, or worked a ramp,
Or forged, or robbed with violence, or swore,
And yet clung to his faithful gamp.
There is a subtle Something which surrounds
The weapon aunts and clerics bear,
An Atmosphere suggestive of the sounds
That, once a week, pervade the Sabbath air,
A Force who e close proximity confounds
Those who are not upon the square.
No burglar ever practised at his trade,
Yet carried in his sinful hand
One of those structures which bring grateful shade
To dwellers in a sun-scorched land.
Murder ain’t done, nor wicked compacts made
Where brollies are in keen demand.
Summed up, umbrella-wearers are impelled
To virtue, in a certain sense ;
Hot youth and peaceful middle age and eld
All feel the rain-shield’s influence.
Merely to own one surely should be held
Clear legal proof of innocence.
N. s. w.
10-2-4.


The Truth Must Stand.
You know the proverb, "A lie has no
legs”—it cannot stand when put to the test.
If the public try an article advertised to
possess certain merits and the advertised
merits are found to have “ not a leg to stand
upon,” that article cannot gain in the public
favour. Sunlight Soap has steadily gained
in the. public favour from the date of its
•ntroduction, and long ago it attained, and
: t continues to maintain, its pre-eminent
..position amongst Soaps of having the largest
sale in the world.
Those who cousrh, if wise, procure
And take at once Woods’ Peppermint Cure ;
Folk-; who colds cannot withstand
Ouarht, to keep Woods’ Cure at hand.
Sufferers, too, from frequent chills
Find Woods’ Great Cure saves doctors’ hills,
Whilst all who of the “Flu” complain
Should take Woods’ Cure and smile again.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
ljhkljh
Should Interest Every Man.
Every man who rides horseback should be in-
terested in these Riding Trousers.
We don’t believe you can get anything better
anywhere. No other ready-to-wear Riding
Trousers could approach these in any respect.
They are well-shaped in the leg —close-fitting
at knee, and have two buttons for boot straps
at insteps to hold them in position.
DRAB and WHITE CANTON MOLE = = 10/6 Pair
QREY, FAWN and BROWN RIDING TWIST - 18/6 Pair
N.S.W. Postage, 9d. extra ; Inter-State, 1/-.
ORDER FORM.
When ordering, please state waist measurement i
Measurement above knee Under knee
Calf.
PEAPES ®. CO., LTD.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Adelaide”: Consider the difference
between Adelaide and Melbourne in the support
of Australian manufactures. In Melbourne :
A.N.A. held exhibition two weeks, balloon
ascents and boxing matches provided as attrac-
tions. Most of the receipts supplied by exhibitors
themselves. Result, deficit of £316. In Ade-
laide : Chamber of Manufactures held exhibition
(goods all Australian, and nearly all South Aus-
tralian), six weeks, and then a few more days had
to be allowed to meet the popular demand ; side-
shows, none worth mentioning. Gate-money
alone brought in £7660, the crowd numbering
16,500 in one day, and 260,000 altogether. Total
receipts, £9092; profit, £2653. The money was
all spent locally; and meanwhile S.A. people
woke up to the knowledge of how many things
they can (and do) make that used to be imported.
* * * *
“ A. 8.” (Able-Bodied) writes :
In the course of a fire at a Chinese furniture factory in
Melbourne on June 30 an incident occurred which recalls
the terrible Anthony Hordern blaze of a decade back. At
the Melbourne conflagration an unfortunate Chow was
caught on the second floor. Before the brigade arrived
the fire was on top of him. A crowd of volunteers held
out a blanket and urged hint to jump. He did so, and
landed fairly in the centre ; but the impetus of his fall
dragged the blanket-holders into a heap, and the China-
man struck the pavement and was killed. At the Hordern
fire an unfortunate employee was on the roof eight storeys
up. The crowd got hold of tarpaulins for him to jump
into. The police stopped them, because, coming down
from such a height, the man’s fall would not have been
broken, and some of the holders would probably have
been killed. To fall on a tarpaulin, or even on the sur-
face of a river, from a great height, is just as fatal as
falling on bricks. The action of the police was much
commented on at the time, but the fate of the Melbourne
Chinaman suggests that they were right.
* * * *
In spite of his generally humorous aspect
one feels almost sorry for Victoria’s sub-. Excellency
Thomas Carmiko. The other day the harmless
unnecessary import was celebrating Arbor Day
by planting a daisy or something at a suburban
State school, when Norman Bailes, who was
attendant-in-chief for the time being, flopped
into the proceedings with a timorous bleat about
the infamy of Arthur Lynch’s reference in the
House of Commons to Australian Governors as
"undistinguished men, pale reflexes of a bad
English system.” “ Australia,” said Bailes, "has
every reason to be proud of the distinguished
men sent to govern her and the various States.”
It must be a tough job for a comic person like
Carmichael to restrain himself at times, but you
can’t very well tomahawk the individual who is
pouring grease over you.
■* * * *
“The Undersigned ” :
One nip lit I saw fit to accompany Perkins to the door
of his boarding-house, as he had been patronising the
wassail bowl, and I thought he needed looking after.
When a man is intoxicated he generally imagines that
his companion is drunk, while he himself is unnaturally
sober. This was the attitude of Perkins to me. He
appeared to think he was convoying me, instead of the
contrary being' the case. He would bore me right across
the footpath, and when he was just about to bump me
into the gutter he would grab me tighter and sa.v,
“Sbeadgy, steadgy, now; ’s all right ol’ chapsh ; hold
up ; you'll be all righsh in mornin’” ; thus putting me in
a disgraceful and humiliating position. 1 managed to
steer him round the corner of King-street into Mac-
quarie-street, and finally along to his hash-house.
He had thickly bidden me good-night, and I was
turning away on m.v journey to the Quay, when a cab
drew up at the kerb and from it dropped a female, who
hastily crossed the footpath, and running up the few steps,
disappeared with an indignant flirt into the house. The
man remained and slowly settled with the driver, after
which he with some difficulty negotiated the footpath
and the steps. He was just at the top when Perkins
whimpered to me in a tone that might have been heard a
block away, “Anuzzer myshteryl” The man heard,
stopped and turned back. That was the only time I ever
saw a person climb down stairs. He climbed down with
the aid of the rail. He really needed both rails, hut they
were too far apart. “ Wot.ter yer mean by ‘another
nivshtery ’? ” he asked. Perkins was dumb;
but I rushed in to explain that his remark
was merely the final word of an abstruse meteoro-
logical discussion we had been having. I spoke
these words in precise syllables, to show that there was
at least one sober man amongst us. “ Norrer bit of it ! ”
said the man, “ I’m groshly inshulted. He meant it for
me.” lendeavoured to again interpose. “No myshtery at
all,” he continued, turning to Perkins, “and if you wash
younger man I'd pull y’r facheoff.” Perkins was probably 10
years the junior of the man, who, in the course of the dis-
cussion that followed, several times expressed his regret
that m.v friend was not a younger man. I have been the
witness of many consuming griefs, but have never seen
such great sorrow as was the man’s at the age-disqualifi-
cation of Perkins. He displayed much indignation at the
opinion which, he said, seemed to prevail in the house
that the lady we had seen was merely his adopted wife.
I thought a drink might help to smooth matters over,
and we all adjourned. M.v new acquaintance was on his
dignity with Perkins, and, as a consequence, he bestowed
all his affability upon me, so that, on the wa.v back to
King-street, he was walking on m.v feet most of the time.
During our stay in the bar he took me aside and informed
me that, as a matter of fact, his consort was in some
respects the most virtuous ladv in Sydney, if not in Aus-
tralia. I said I could see that. Then he went back to
the counter, and, after gazing malevolently on Perkins,
expressed his regret that my friend was not a
younger man, as his desire was to shove away
the top of his head. Apparently with a desire
to ward off the wrath of the man, Perkins suggested
what he aptly called a “parching glash,”when suddenly,
without anv seeming effort on our part, we found our-
selves on the footpath, with the doors of the pub shut.
Then, with apparently no intervention of time, we once
more found ourselves back at the steps in Macquarie-
street, and I remember seeing- my companions climbing
the golden stair with a firm grip of the railings. Again
time stood still, and I forthwith discovered myself seated
on the sumptuous barge that was to take me across the
beautiful harbor. As the plank was thrown out and the
boat sidled away. I becarne conscious that under ray arm
there was a void where something had been, and I
realised with emotion that I had left my crayfish on
.the bar counter.
* * » *
Cutting from a Queensland paper
fIIENDERS will he received up till 5 o’clock p.m. on
MONDAY, 27th JUNE, for the undermentioned
Supplies for half-year ending 31st December, 1910 :
Groceries, Meat. Butter, Drugs, Funerals, Vege-
tables, Wines and Spirits.
Now, can the same person tender for drugs and
funerals ?
A WINDY DAY IN HEAVEN. —HIS HALO BLOWS OFF.
On behalf of the good old “gambling
evil ” an artless Melbourne citizen named Abra-
hams argues that horseracing is a valuable
national industry which provides work for far-
riers, saddlers, veterinary surgeons, etc. With as
much force he might plead for a State-subsidised
ballet in the interests of the shoe trade, or advo-
cate the encouragement of bookmakers for the
sake of the leather bag trade.
* * * *
The subordinates of Victoria’s police boss
O’Callaghan don’t overwork themselves as a rule,
but the eloquential aspect of the force is worth
considering. Here is what they heaved at a post-
card seller in Melbourne the other day :
Thnt he, being a scandalous and evil-disposed person,
devising, contriving and intending the morals of divers
liege subjects of our Lord the King to corrupt, did sell,
utter and publish certain obscene, bawdy and indecent
pictures to the manifest corruption of the morals of
divers liege subjects of ottr said Lord the King, against
the peace of our Lord the King, his crown and dignity.
They could hardly have spoken more crushingly if
the accused had chased the Arch-
bishop down Collins-street with
tin axe.
FIRST SIGNS OF IMPROVEMENT.
“ I’m not a bit like myself to-night, dear. I
think we ought to stop at home."
“ Don't say that, darling. For if you really feel
like that we ought to have a very enjoyable
evening.”
An embittered Sydneyite writes :—-
What are the powers conferred on mayors and aider-
men under the new Municipalities Act? Some of these
gentlemen feel that they are, under it, adorned with
authority superhuman. In my own suburb we have a
particularly officious council, one alderman being- so
assured of his authority that he takes upon himself to
enter ratepayers’ backyards and give instructions to
workmen that may at times he employed there. What
I wish to be enlightened upon is : If I find this party in
mv back yard, how would I stand if I took hint by the
slack of his arrears and rubbed his nose in his own
municipal gutter? If it was only a simple bobby-court
affair, I would willingly pay fair damages if I got good
facial value out of him. But I know the gentleman him-
self thinks that if I dare to touch him I would be struck
by lightning. Do you think I would ?
Life continues to be strenuous on the
Victorian railways. Lately the public learned,
a week after the occurrence, that a suburban
train irregularly followed another into the half-
mile section between Burnley and East Richmond
stations, and must have crashed right into it when
standing at the latter station, but that the driver
noticed the tail lights and pulled up a few feet
away. That is about all the travelling public is
sure of. It has since been told that two
signalmen were suspended, and were afterwards
reinstated, as it was impossible to fix the blame
with certainty; that either might have worked
the signal that sent the second train on to the
occupied section ; that one signalman had been
12 hours on duty ; that he usually toils only eight
hours, but that the third man being ill. his two
mates had to make up his time, as there was no
relieving signalman available; also, that there
was really no danger, and that it is quite unlikely
to happen again. All which, as an individual
remarked when he got 12 months for “going
through ” a stranger for a bent sixpence, is dashed
unsatisfactory.
* * * *
“Brinor”: Chelmsford's recent visit to
Pitcairn induces me to set down a precis of Bligh
and the Bounty. Never met anyone outside
Sydney who had it right. Bligh, as Cook’s
sailing master, got the nickname in Eng-
land of “Bread Fruit Bligh,” through
his praise of that wonderful fruit. The
Admiralty sent him in the Bounty,
250 tons, to take bread fruit to the
West Indies. He went to Tahiti,
and was nigh, half a year there.
A few days after sailing there
was the mutiny. Bligh and 18
others were put in the launch.
They voyaged 3500 miles, and
were rescued at Timor by the Pan-
dora. The Bounty, with 25 men
aboard, returned to Tahiti. The 25
tried a settlement on a well-known
island, but gave up owing to the
hostility of the natives. .Sixteen
mutineers stayed at Tahiti and were
captured by the Pandora, Four
were afterwards drowned in a ship-
wreck, and three were hanged from
the yard-arm at Portsmouth. Mean-
while the Bounty, with nine mutin-
eers, six Tahiti men and 12 Tahiti
women, went to Pitcairn. This isle
had apparently only once been
touched at by any ship. Christian,
the chief mutineer, learned of it in
a book he found aboard. The Bounty
was broken up for house-building
material. Feuds of a sanguinary kind
arose, and from these and other causes
all the men, brown and white, ulti-
mately perished, bar Adams, who was
left with a lot of women and children.
He trained up the settlement in the
manner which has become historic.
No ship toughed at Pitcairn until 19
years after the settlement began. The
inhabitants became too numerous.
Thev were shifted to Tahiti, but
the free-and-easy style there didn’t suit the
piety which Adams had implanted. Besides,
it didn’t suit the health of the Pitcairners.
They went hack to their old home. In 1856 they
were removed to Norfolk Island, where they
number about 800. According to the latest book I
can find, a few went back to Pitcairn—making
the third settlement there—and still remain.
“ Petifi ” doesn’t think much of the Dun-
bar’s anchors: —
There are a marvellous number of people in this world
who justcan’t let the Past rest. Itseems to be an instinct
with these ghoulish folk to drag some remains from the
dank and speechless sarcophagus. You will have
noticed this instinct illustrated in the case of the mole-
like persons who go around burgling p3'ramids and other
tomby places, and dragging thence into scurrilous pub-
licity inoffensive mummies that never did them any
injury. Or listen to Mrs. Jones enlightening Mrs. Smith,
over the back fence, about the broken leg her Johnny
had in his boyhood, 20 years ago. The uproot-
ing instinct again. Sydney has just had an
exhibition of this universal yearning to Yank
Things Up. Once upon a time, on a dirty night, a
ship was wrecked near Sydney Heads, and for 53 years
the vessel’s poor sodden bones rested snugly enough
under the shelteiing cliffs, where the white foam flies
when the wild nor’-easter is on a jag. During the years
the Dunbar became a picturesque legend. On appro-
priate occasions the story was brought out, furbished up,
and handed round for inspection in all sorts of places,
from the city drawing-room to the camp-fires in the West.
Lovers journeyed forth to the scene of the tragedy on
peaceful Sabbath afternoons, when the spring was on the
land, and, sitting there above the blue Pacific, Algernon
made sentimental reference to Davy Jones’s Locker and
the Perils of the Deep; while Maudalina wondered
shudderingly if there were really any poor dead
peoples’ bones down there. There was a wealth
of romance and mystery and poesy about the
engulfed Dunbar that was worth a lot in this sor-
did age. But the other day a brutal syndicate, per
medium of an inquisitive diver, some dynamite and a
noisy salvage steamer, changed all that. It Yanked
Things Up. In three fathoms, about 60ft. out from the
rock, the wreckers located the anchors of the ill-starred
ship. One was a kedge of about 15cwt. It had lost a
fluke, and the stock and shackle had been eaten by wild
fish, but otherwise it looked quite like an anchor.
Another, about four tons, had to be blasted out of the
rocks that had overcrowded it. Its shank was 13ft. long,
and although somewhat worn in places, where the mer-
maids had been sitting on it, it was in a fair state of pre-
servation. Besides the mudhooks, the ghouls who
Couldn’t Let Things Rest resurrected some sundries,
such as a boat-davit, copper bolts, brass-and-iron work,
copper sheathing, and —half a china saucer ! If I were a
poet, I think I would w-rite a poem about that half-
saucer. Later the things that Weren’t Allowed to Rest
will probably fill a corner in a museum or such-like place.
THE OLD TANK STREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was hnrn in a cottage near the old Tank Stream.
That was in 1832. I remember swimming dmvn from
beyond Hunter-street to Circular yuav. The Tank
Stream in those days ran between George-street and
Pitt-street. People used to come down to it to get fresh
water. Things have altered since then.— T. A. Dibbs,
general manager Commercial Banking Co., N.S. W.
The old Tank Stream is a vision and a dream, and the
voices of the faded Long Ago
Flowing sadly through the door seem to whisper “ Never-
more ! ”
But a Nation’s swiftly growing, that our Gaolers didn’t
know 1
The old Rum days go their dissipated ways ; the bones of
ancient Phillip lie forgotten in the tomb ;
Where the Bounty Mutineers wrangled down the distant
years, ’
Hear the long Pacific rollers on Tofoa’s beaches boom !
They cast off Bligh when the Revolution-cry echoed
’thwart old crazy Paris for her sins ;
And the Governor afloat in his old, forgotten boat
Might have heard the roaring echoes of the angry
Jacobins !
The years pass on, the Kings are dead and gone, and
Australia greets the dawn with steel and steam ;
The New Land thrives, and the shackles and the gyves
Lie beneath the vanished waters of the old Tank Stream !
The old men die, and the brave steam-banners fly where
the new Nation-Makers toil and thrill;
To the mountain and the gorge goes the challenge of the
forge,
And the locomotive-whistle sounds imperative and shrill 1
The First Fleet came with its freight of bitter shame —
the convicts in their fetters to the gallows slowly trod”
Now they count their petty cash where the whistle of
the lash
Echoed swiftly in the mornings that lie derelict with
God!
In those old days they had sharp and sudden ways, and
the gallows and the bullet ruled the town ;
And the convict in his cell had his own peculiar hell,
With a grim and earnest Devil furnished gratis by the
Crown !
The times have changed—where the convicf-keepeis
ranged, see the furnace, metal-laden, flash and
gleam ;
The New Land lives, and a scornful glance She gives
To the Gallows and the Gaolers by the old Tank Stream !
Erect and free, as a Better Land should be, with our eye s
upon to-morrow and its task ;
We repay the Gaoler now with our strength and with
our vow —
Room to work and space to labor, that is all the boon
we ask !
We ask of Time, a requital all sublime—a payment for
the Gaoler that shall bow his shamfed head ;
’Tis to raise him up a Land where his sons shall freely
stand,
And whose ships shall bear him substance when his
children call for bread !
A faith new-born, free from bitterness and scorn—though
we keep a faithful tally of the years ;
We are working for the day of our Nationhood and sway,
When our guarded young Republic stands amongst her
jealous peers !
The work well done!—so the woof and warp are spun,
and the Mightv Lana is woven from a dream ;
The strong men toil, winning treasure from the soil,
Whilst the Gaolers rot and moulder by the old Tank
Stream !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATV)NAL ” CAS ENCINE and PLANT «
K 0,,,, srocrED m TySnsT^
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
lip “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. State Bank, officially known as
the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.
Re-
Profit. serves.
Dec., 1900 - £25,008
June, 1901 £20,939 51,967
~ 19 >2 21,601 73,568
„ 1903 18,992 92,560
Loss.
„ 1904 33,905 58,655
~ 1905 20,817 37,838
~ 1906 21,663 16,175
Dec., 1906 4,484 11,691
Profit.
„ 1907 . 2,9451
Accumulated interest on guarantee > 19,654
deposit With Commonwealth, £5OlB J
Received on an adjustment of ac-
counts with the Treasury, £30,000 49,654
Dec., 1908 ' ... 9,115 58,769
„ 1909 7,790 66,559
This concern was run for many years in conjunction with
the Post Office, and it was long the custom in N.S.W. to
appoint the fool of the Ministry to manage that branch of
the service. If there wasn’t a fool handy one was
earnestly sought for and was generally found. Once
—so the story goes—a very forlorn leader, who had
got his chance by accident, was making a Ministry,
and, having filled every other billet, he appointed a
small, harmless supporter to be P.M.G. for no better
reason than that he collided with him in a dark passage
and trod on his corn. The tale was probably a lie, but it
showed the value placed on a P.M.G. in those ramshackle
days. The Post Office Savings Bank hadn’t much of a
chance in the old time. Its methods were slow and
clumsy. It was overshadowed by the Barrack-street
Savings Bank, which was regarded as a splendid example
of the blessings of Private Enterprise until the day when
the State rushed to its aid and unofficially guaranteed its
deposits during the cataclysm of 1893. Also, the Post
Office Savings Bank wasn’t helped much by the habit
which at least one Treasurer developed, of taking sums
of money from it in an off-hand way and giving it 3 per
cent, securities in exchange. When a bank pays 3 per
cent, interest to its depositors it can’t afford to invest
the money at 3 per cent. The only possible result is that
the expenses of management are a dead loss.
When the Commonwealth took over the Post
Office and didn’t take over the P.O. Savings Bank, things
became no better with great rapidity. There were
heavy losses for four years. At last it was necessary to
give over the old habit of treating the institution as a
joke and to put capable men in charge. Alex. Mclntosh,
and, after him, R. A. Warden and W. H. O. Wood took the
concern in hand and began to ev lve some kind of order.
At present the bank is in the hands of Warden and Wood
as Commissioners aiid H. D. Hall as Deputy Commis-
sioner.
Under the new regime the deposits have in-
creased greatly. These are the latest figures :
1899 .. .. £5,485,035 1905 .. .. £7,952,885
1900 .. .. 6,045,622 1906 .. .. 9,322,923
1901 .. .. 6,647,289 1907 .. .. 11,128,495
1902 .. .. 7,100,108 1908 .. .. 12,118,574
1903 .. 7,018,425 1909 .. .. 13,303,421
1904 .. .. 7,475,058
The Savings Bank has a side-line in the shape
of an Advances Department. This branch has a curious
history. In 1899 the drought was bad and the Foreign-
trade policy was worse. It was necessary to do some-
thing for the man on the dust, so the Government
created an Advances to Settlers’ Department—a pale and
rid iculous copy of the State Laiid Banks of Maorila nd, S. A.
»nd Victoria. According to the “ Official Year-Book of
N.S.W. for 1905-6” (page 372), the purpose of the Advances
to Settlers’ Department was “ to assist settlers who were
in necessitous circumstances or who were financially
embarrassed owing to the droughts.” In other words,
its business was to lend money where nobody else would
lend it; to take all the bad securities ; and to be a semi-
charitable institution which professed to be run on busi-
ness lines. The Government of the day got all the credit
it could for being charitable to the distressed agricul-
turist, but it didn’t pay for the charity. Its attitude was
to the effect that the advance was a loan made on good
security, and thereby it justified itself for being benevo-
lent with borrowed money. If the loans turned
into bad debts, posterity could pay. No one could
ever get a satisfactory balance-sheet out of the
old Advances to Settlers’ Department. When things
got very bad the Savings Bank was authorised to start
an Advances to Settlers business, and the old, muddled,
semi-charitable ruin was handed over to it —just as one
might leave a dying relative on a friend’s doorstep.
That event happened in 1906. The Savings Bank has
done its best. Its new mortgage business seems to be
good, but the old accounts have been a serious handi-
cap. This is the way affairs have travelled
Nominal
Reserves.
Taken over from Advances to Settlers’ Board .. £14,319
Profit.
1907 .. £4735 19,054
1908.. 4661 23,/l 5
Losses of A. to S. Board written off £17,132 .. 6,583
1909.. 5390 11,973
Losses of A to S. Board written off £3933 .. 8.040
The position is, therefore, that when the old Advances to
Settlers’ Board died it handed over a nominal profit
balance or reserve fund of £14,319 ; but as £21,065 has
already disappeared in liquidation of the old Board’s bad
debts the new management has had a pretty heavy infant
to carry. It has managed to show £14,786 of profits, but
despite all this it hasn’t been able to save the nominal
reserve fund from a very serious slump. Seeing that the
amending Act of 1902 authorised the old Board to grant
loans extending over 31 years, and that a 31-year loan
granted in 1906 wouldn’t completely mature until 1937,
there are probably a few more troubles to be met yet-
The Commissioners speak hopefully of the situation, but
there are £175,186 of the old loans outstanding, and
that seems to suggest that there is still space for a lot of
difficulties to crop up, especially if the bottom falls out
of the climate and the bad dry years recur again.
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Pref. Written
Profits. (6 p.c.). Ord. Off. Deficit.
Mar 1904 £3750 8 p.c. =£sooo £164,131
5ept,.’,1904.. £13,873 3750 8 „ „ 5000 £720 159,728
Mar., 1905.. 14,887 3750 10 „ „ 6250 701 155,542
Sept., 1905.. 15,306 3750 10 „ ~ 6250 706 150,942
Mar., 1906.. 13,846 3750 10 „ „ 6250 722 147,818
Sept., 1906.. 16,012 3750 10 „ „ 6250 724 142,530
Mar 1907.. 15,600 3750 12 „ „ 7500 962 139,142
Sept.’, 1907.. 15,666 3750 12 „ „ 7500 979 335,705
Ma r ]9OB 16 579 3750 12 „ „ 7500 989 131,365
Sept.’, 1908.. 17,436 3750 12 „ „ 7500 4085 129,264
Mar., 1909.. 15 485 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1287 126,316
Sept 1909 . 18 773 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1568 120,361
Mar., 1910.. 17,987 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1338 114,962
The company doesn’t put its figures that way 7 —in fact, it
claims to have £83,038 of reserves. But against these
there is a paper item, “ Goodwill, £198,000,” and The
Bulletin has a profound disrespect for goodwill items,
so it ignores this amount, with the above result.
The goodwill idea is a habit, and not at all a
good one. Also, curiously enough, it is a habit
which, though apparently held to be quite. allow-
able in some lines of business, is quite damnable in
others. If, for instance, the Bank of New South Wales
swelled its assets with “ Goodwill, £1,000,000,” it would
be considered that the management had gone mad, and
many people would rush to withdraw their accounts.
Yer, there isn’t the slightest doubt that, if the Bank of
N.S.W. sold its business to another monster institution,
it could get a great deal more than £1,000,000 for the
mere connection. (When the little Colonial Bank of
Maoriland was tottering to its fall, and its shares were
selling at 50 per cent, discount, it sold its business for
£75,000.) No reputable insurance company, either,
would dare to put a goodwill item into its accounts.
And why trading companies should do so without ques-
tion is not easily explained. A steady writing-down of
this item would make the balance-sheet look a great
deal better.
All the same, the position of the Herald and
Weekly Times is very good. Here are some of the
figures:—
Sept., Sept., March,
1904. 1909. 1910.
Freehold and fittings.. ..£31,243 £50,182 £50,182
Machinery 25,146 26,463 2/,402
Stock 9,281 9,381 11,300
Book debts, deposits, cash,
etc. .. 33,352 54,863 57,304
Debts owing by the co. are deducted from the last item,
so it shows the liquid assets net. The cash, bank de-
posits and debentures stand for no less than £54,88/.
The capital is £250,000, one half being in preference
shares. The preference dividend is limited to 6 per
cent. ; the ordinary dividend may soar up till it is quite
out of sight. It might perhaps be wiser not to let it
soar above 8 per cent, at most, and devote the savings to
the extinction of the goodwill account. But the co.
seems quite satisfied with its goodwill account.
«. -V * *
“Ex-Rail ” : The Emil Bay (Tas.) private rail-
way is even worse than “ Apple-woman ” (B. 20/1/’10) or
“ Another Railway Man ” (B. 17/2/’10) make .out. The
freight from Burnie to Waratah is £3 a ton, with the ex-
ception of flour, potatoes and chaff, for which the co.
charges onlv 425. 6d. Single passenger fares (50 miles)
are: first 155., second 12s. 6d. ; return fares are: first
255., second 20s. Packages of goods up to 1121 b., mini-
mum charge 3s. For the smallest parcel the minimum is
9d. An important stationmaster, who handles a con-
siderable quantity of cash, lately enjoyed the imperial
remuneration of 255. a week. He was single, but with such
wealth ir. is a wonder he didn’t marry just in order to
increase the birth-rate.
• * * *
“Shareholder” writes : “Your remarks re the
Maoriland Government and the Bank of New Zealand are
one-sided. Here is the other side: The Government
backed the hill for £2,000,000, but in so doing took prac-
tically no risk, for it held the ordinary shareholders
liable for £1,500,000 uncalled liability. In the process of
providing’ for losses the shareholders lost, the whole of
their paid-up capital, also £500,000 which wa- called up
and promptly written off; and the present 1500.000
credited to them is the result of a further call. The
shareholders’ money was therefore used to provide for
all the losses of the bank, the Government not. losing a
penny piece. At the time when half the £2,000,000 loan
was refunded by the bank, the Government took
£500,000 in preference shares at par and without, lia-
bility, again making the ordinary shareholders’capital,
paid'and unpaid, liable for all losses before loss can affect
the Government preference shares—a very fine invest-
ment for the Government. Your statement ‘ that
one-half the reserve fund belongs to the Govern-
ment and the other half to the ordinary share-
holders’ is wrong. The entire present, reserve fund
belongs to the ordinary shareholders ; the Government is
simply apreferential shareholder t,o the extent of £500,000.
The shares, as already pointed out, being: obtained at par,
while the ordinary shares could not, at the time, be pur-
chased except at a considerable premium, the terms are
really on a level with the autocratic methods adopted
by the Government all through.”
In reply to the above, it isn’t necessary to say
much. As regards “the autocratic methods adopted by
th" Government,” i he real fact is that it was the bank
which first employed autocratic methods. When
Private Enterprise had run the institution on the
rocks—when it had written off much capital,
turned over its dead assets to a subsidiary co.
and pawned them to debenture-holders—it found
itself, after all, in a cul-de-sac. It bailed up the
Government one pleasant afternoon, and stated that
unless it got. enormous assistance that same night—this
at a time when there was hardly a private financier out-
side a madhouse who would have lent it a copper—the
B.N.Z. wouldn’t open its doors next morning. The
Government was stunned. The B.N.Z. was such a
stupendous factor in the business of the country that its
failure would knock all industry endways, and make
a grievous slump in the public revenup. So Maoriland
catne to the rescue .ith a guarantee of £2,000,000. It gave
the B.N.Z. all the Government business. It also helped it. by
negotiating the purchase of the Colonial Bank, which
largely increased its connection and its profits—the old
Private Enterprise B.N.Z. could no more have purchased
the Colonial Bank than it could have purchased Heaven
at, a cheap sale. For vears the Government wits content
to prop up the B.N.Z. without, making a penny of profit
out of the deal. Then, after it had pulled .the institu-
tion out of the mud, it bought, a half-share in the
hank for cash. It made its shares preferential, hut. in
return it contents itself with a much smaller dividend
than the ordinary shareholders receive. “ Shareholder ”
complains that it, in an autocratic fashion, bought, its
shares at par at a time when the ordinary shares were
selling at a premium. But it was entirely owing to
the support given by the Government that the ordi-
nary shares were selling at anything at, all. And
it. was the Government’s turn to be .autocratic.
The hank had been autocratic enough when if gave
the Ministry the alternative of coming to its assist-
ance or seeing the country almost ruined, and allowed it
two or three hours to decide what it would do.
The present position of the B.N.Z. shareholders
may not he all that it might be ; still it could easily
be a lot worse. They have lost a lot of money; but
they are getting splendid dividends on what remains,
and they have a magnificently strong institution behind
them and great prospects in front, of them. If the
Government had not com * to their aid they would have
lost a lor, of money and would have no dividends, no bank,
no prospects. They are a darned ungrateful crowd if
they have anv complaints to make. As for “ Share-
holder’s” statement, that the reserve fund belongs
wholly to the ordinary shareholders, and that the prefer-
ence shareholder—the Dominion—owns none of it, be
had better go round and ask the opinion of preference
shareholders in other companies on the point. If the
ordinary shareholders started to divide among them-
selves the reserve which was built up for the protection
of all parries, the preference p ople would have some
astonishing things to say to them. And the statement
that the Maoriland Government took no risk because its
£2 000,000 was secured by the ordinary shareholders’
liability for £1,500,000 in calls, it is only n cessary to say
two things : (1) that calls are very hard to collect when
an institution is dead ; (2) that, £1,500,000, even if it can
be collected, isn’t any too good security for the full pay-
ment of £2,000,000.
* * * *
The North Coast Co-operative Co. (Byron
Bay, N.S.W.), which runs the biggest butter business in
the Commonwealth, presents its balance-sheet for the
half-year to April 30, 1910. In one sense, i his co. takes
a very high place: it strives to furnish every > possible
detail about, its business. At the same time, with all its
good intentions, it is a rather untidy co. The writer has
before him six of the company's balance-sheets ; the one
for October, 1907, is unfortunately missing. For April,
190 S, certain profits are announced and so much is dis-
tributed, reserved, or applied to cover depreciation. Also
£33BS is carried forward. In October, 1908, £3393 is brought
forward—discrepancy, £5 and a little small change.
In October, 1908, there are the usual distributions and
£1970 6s. Bd. is carried forward, yet in April, 1909, the
amount brought forward is £1968 At Apri ,
1909, the balance carried forward is £25// 6s. 4d., ana it
is a mere detail that the amount brought
October, 1909, seems to be £2644 6s. sd. October, 1909,
carries forward t36l 10s. 7d., and the amount brought
forward at April, 1910, seems to be £362 14s. 9d. some
further details follow :
Dividends .
and De- R p ‘
Bonus. predation. senes.
Oct., 1909.. L l29 S ' 803 £1,350 4,505
Profit.
April, 1910.. 13.382 700 IMO\ 4 ,52 S
To Suspense account 11,304 J
The bijr profit is, to a great extent, guesswork, and de-
pends on how the consignments sent to England tinam
turn our. Therefore, the co. has hung the matter up.
Seeing that the shipments were valued at something line
£117,000, there is room for a lot of things to happen.
The co. has a paid-up capital of only £16,759, so it has to
trade largely on borrowed money. At the date of the
balance-sheet it owed £49,307 to suppliers, and as regards
the export business, it presumably gets advances on the
consignments. The reserves are much too small, beem-
inglv no effort has been made to repair the disastei of
1907, when nearly £37,000 was written off, to cover
arrears of depreciation. Whether more arrears of depre-
ciation are accumulating now to make fresh trouble it is
impossible to say. # #
Though the prices realised in last month’s huge
Melbourne land sale didn’t come up to the values esti-
mated when J. B. Watson tied up the goods over a score
of years ago, they went very nearly to land boom rates.
Top price was brought bv the Leviathan corner (Swansron
and Bottrke), £9OO a foot; lower Elizabeth-streef brought
£705 a foot; upper Elizabeth, £100; Bourke-street, a
little above the G.P.0., £550 ; Queen-street, near Collins,
£*4oo; Flinders-sr.reet East, £2*25 ; and Collins-street E.,
£lBO. In most cases the existing rentals won t return
4 per cent, on the sums paid, so evidently rents are to be
shoved tip. Apparently the buyers don’t fear the coming
land-tax, to which they will almost all be liable, for
among them they planked down £331,420, and there were
buyers enough at the sale to have spent a full million,
onlv the supply of property ran out.
* * * *
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co.
(Sydney): “ Bonus Added
to to He- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb., 1899.. 6p.c.= 112 2538 2,745
Feb., 1900.. 8,788 6,, ~ 304 40U6 39,8 6,,23
April, 1901.. 320 6,, „ 855 »,lbB
June, 1902.. 2,689 6 „ ~1409 1-80 7,468
June, 1903.. 1,625 6 „ ~1306 Jl9 7,/8/
June, 1904.. 2,012 6 „ ~1335 6<7 8,464
June, 1905.. 4.783 6 „ ~1335 1742 1706 10 1,0
June, 1906.. 9,526 6 „ ~1335 3183 6008 16,1/8
June, 1907.. 10,669 7 „ ~ 1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securilies, £2615 '.. -17,160
June, 1908.. 8,066 7 p.c.= 1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written off securities, £2840 .. 18,312
June, 1909.. 9,572 10 p.c.= 2229 2924 4419 22,731
June, 1910.. 16,482 10 ~ ~2229 6283 /9to 30,/01
This concern stands outside the wool-broking ring and
plays its own hand. It has no “honorable understand-
ing-" with the other firms in the business of the sheep s
overcoat. It is co-operative in this sense, that it re-
turns a far larger proportion of the profits to its
clients by w'ay of rebate titan it divides _ among
its shareholders by way of dividend. This year
the shareholders get £2229, and the clients who
supply the business get a rebate or bonus of £6283. In
other words, the clients get back 25 per cent, of the com-
mission which they paid for the sale of their produce,
and this reduces the actual selling charge for wool to
£1 17s. 6d. per cent. It is the largest rebate paid up to
date except in the boom year of 1907, when the bonus
climbed to 30 per cent. The business is now bigger than
it ever was before ; at its Sydney sales the co. disposed
of 72,526 bales, whereas the previous best year’s record
was 47,362 bales. The co. has a paid-up
£22 292, and, as shown above, it lias £30,701
of ’reserves. It has £61,303 invested in buildings,
so as a matter of necessity the amounts it owes
are somewhat larger than the amounts owing to it. But
every year it is improving its position, and this year it
improved its position more than in any previous 12
months of its brief existence (it is only 13years old). The
increase in business is so large that it seems probable
that the Co-operative Wool and Produce Co. has really
just, begun to arrive—that up to now it has been feeling
its way, and the real boom has only commenced.
* * * *
The Queen Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Adelaide),,
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct 1903 .. £355 4ip.c = £4lO £654
Apt., 1904 .. 429 H„ „ 414 £l5 669
Oct., 1904 .. 401 41- ~ „ 367 34 /03
Aul., 1905 .. 349 4J ~ ~ 331 18 <2 l
Oct., 1905 .. 285 4„ „ 309 697
Apl., 1906 .. 300 4J ~ ~ 317 680
Oct,., 1906 .. 318 44 ~ ~ 333 665
Apl., 1907 .. 333 4£ ~ „ 352 646
Oct., 1907 .. 316 4| ~ ~ 330 62/
Apl., 1908 .. 313 4 ~ ~ 308 5 632
Oct., 1908 .. 322 4 ~ „ 326 —62 b
Apl., 1909 .. 374 4 ~ ~ 329 45 6/3
Oct., 1909 .. 442 4 ~ ~ 308 134 80/
Apl., 1910 .. 401 , 4 ~ ~ 298 103 910
This little concern is built on the withdrawable prin-
ciple. That is to say, it has no capital that is fixed, or
nailed down, or tied up, or otherwise secured. People
take up shares, pay for them by instalments, and when
the instalments and the interest have made them fully
paid up, the shareholders can, and apparently do, with-
draw the money. And the old shareholders who
withdraw seem' to he more numerous than the
new ones who come in, for between April, 1909,
and April, 1910, the capital decreased from £18,447 to
£16,505. Yet the old shareholders who went out were
apparently much less wise than the new ones who came
in or the old ones who stayed in. For the society has
now a larger profit than it had a year ago to divide
among a smaller crowd of shareholders, and it has a
much bigger reserve fund to protect a smaller mass of
investments. In fact, the society—which is a very small
society—seems to be slowly dying, and it also seems to be
growing richer the nearer it is to being dead, and by the
time it is quite dead it should have a very fine reserve
fund to buy a tombstone with.
* * * *
Good old Private Enterprise accumulates more
disrespect every month, and, hut for the occasional
friendly word of such p< rsons as “Father of a Family,”
“ British Justice” and “ Mother of Eleven,” moves along
the road that will one day bring it to perdition, pursued
by the loud hoots of even its own children. The latest
piece of blue metal heaved after the old ragamuffin comes
in the shape of a proposal to hit the sugar-refining mono-
polvof Australia by means of a co-operative refinery in the
interests of the proriucets of white-grown cane. The
scheme as outlined embraces the formation of a company,
with a nominal capital of £300,000, by the raw sugar
mills ; no other shareholders to tie admitted. To finance
the companv’s operations each mill is to subscribe
a sufficient amount by extended payments, and the
profits are to be appropriated thus: (1) reserve
fund to he provided ; (2) 4 per cent, cumulative
preferential dividend to he paid on the capital actually
subscribed by the contributing mills ; (3) the balance to
he divided, pro rata, according to the annual v. lue of
sugar supplied bv the respective mills during'each season.
A further hint "of the growing disrespect for Private
Enterprise’s methods is given in the proposal
that both the Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments should have nominees on the directorate of
the company, to represent the public. Financial
assistance is to he asked in the form of Govern-
imsmos
ss?nrx^ss&«»SSi^s?£
prise by the simple process of getting; in hi. ,
looks a promising' enterprise all the same. *
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vic.):—
Net To Re - Ke '
Profits. Dividends. serves. serve*
July, 1903.. £5044 14 per cent. = £4<25 £319 £64,6^
Jan., 1904.. 4554 14 „ „ 4/-» 64794
July, 1904.. 5012 14 „ „ 4-25 28,
Jan., 1905.. 4438 14 „ ~ 4,25 h
S:S: as if :: : « &
S:K:: S 8 B : : $ « gS
HESS:: S S :: :: f 5 g$
July, 1908.. 3413 10 „ „ 3375 38 o,
Jan'.; 1909.. 4019 10 „ „ 3375 644 60,
July, 1909.. 2319 10 „ ~ 3375 o
Jan. 1910.. 4425 10 „ „ 33,5 10n0 bO-,,
It is an exceedingly belated report, the ba ance-s e
having reached this office far behind time. A
it stopped t.o drink on the road. Intheciicumstanc.es,
The Bulletin will merely remark that ,t " s * v ' r J l: "f s
half-year, that the addition made to the reser
handsome, and that it hopes the next half-yearly docu
ment will arrive more +
Sydney Exchange Co.: —
Written To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves:
Dec., 1903 £1395 6 p.c. = £9OO £495 £5, 4rf
June, 1904.. 986 6„ „ 900 - 86 15,829
Dec., 1904.. 1269 6„ ~ 900 - 369 16,198
June, 1905.. 881 6 ~ ~ 900 ifi’34B
Dec., 1905.. 1069 6„ „ 900 - 169 16,348
June, 1906.. 806 6 ~ ~ 900 in’oVO
Dec., 1906.. 1316 6„ „ 900 - 416 16.670
June, 1907.. 739 6„ „ 900 - - $509
Dec., 1907.. 1186 6„ „ 900 286 $
June, 1908.. 896 6 ~ ~ 900 i7’152
Dec., 1908.. 1261 6„ ~ 900 - 361 IMP*
June 1909.. 1161 6„ „ 900 - 261 17,413
Dec., 1909.. 1464 6,, „ 900 564 17.9, f
June, 1910.. 1792 6 ~ ~ 900 £lOOO 17,869
A certain doubt hangs over the situation as regards the
reserves. In the first place, the co. has also a New
Building Account, which apparently isn’t a reserve.
And the £lOOO which is shown above as written off is to
be carried to a Repairs and Replacement Fund. It may be
ail used up or it may not; and in the latter case the
balance (amount unknown) is a reserve for future repairs
and replacements. The financial position is improving.
These are the figures for the last three half-years.
June, Dec., June,
1909. 1909. 1910.
- mg; mg
Less cash “**• _ ,
"£24,818 £23,636 £21,869
The co. has onlv £30.000 of capital, and as it has £70,000
worth of building on its mind, it is naturally in debt.
But it has at last commenced to shift its big swag of de-
bentures and get into a more liquid condition. It. isn t, a
fast moving co., but it is hurrying gradually in the right
direction. . # # *
A silver-field is not usually thgplnce for a “fos-
sicker” to scratch out a living. And, judging by the
unemployed cry directly things get slack in Broken Hi 1,
one would think that N.S. W.’s silver-belt was a bit below
the average in that direction. The efforts of the indivi-
dual, however, do not go altogether unrewarded in
the land of dust, d and desolation.. Quite a num-
ber of industrious prospectors are at the pre-
sent time knocking something more than bread and
butter out, of the old abandoned shows that lie thick
around Broken Hill like skulls on an ancient battlefield.
In what is known as the Apollyon Valley, about 14 miles
to the westward of the main line of lode, there are a
dozen old surface claims, the richest pockets of which
were taken out in the early boom days, and these are
bein<r scratched over by solitary prospectors with
satisfactory results. Further to the eastward, near
what was at one time the prosperous Southern
Cross mine—Jimmy Hebbard, of the Central, once
managed it—two brothers have been taking out rich
carbonates for two years past, and sending their bundle
to Cockle Creek. These kind of men never trouble the
unemployed ranks. They are mine-owners in a small
wav but they have won the distinction in the teeth of
many hardships. They do not worry the local warden
for suspension of labhr conditions in the leases they
hold because thev'hold them with their coats off and
picks in their hands, and have no time, between chang-
ing the pick for the shovel, to angle with a gaudily-
colored fly for the gullible and greedy English capitalist.
* * * *
A glowing report concerning the prospects of
the Broken Hill South Extended providentially reached
London just before the directors asked for that £7500 of
call money. The report said a lot hut it really didn’t
mean anything. It referred vaguely to thermal action
and the'upward thrust—those bald subterfuges of the
geologist engaged in side-stepping the great and burning :
question of how the Broken Hill lode came to be there
Several skilled geologists have tackled that, problem, and
have left it pretty much as they found it. They have
burdened the Broken Hill lode with a frightful lot of
technicalities, sufficient to scare a good, practical miner
rio-ht away from the field ; but, as regards the ore
and where to find it, they haven’t got one step
further than the old Cornish miner who said, when
asked where thelode was likely to be found, “ VVhere’tis,
there ’tis.” And after all the talk about thermal action,
and so on, the South Extended will just have to take its
chances under the old primitive conditions. If the ore is
there the company will probably find it. Being next
door to the South Blocks, which has found the lode, the
South Extended has a fairly good chance of getting any
ore that may have crept into crevices in the flat, undis-
turbed country. And if it, is to he got for the trying,
the South Extended Company, with its big financial
backing, should be the one to succeed. But the directors
will want all the money they can get, because hunting
for payable ore bodies in the White Leads Flat has always
proved an expensive game. *
What a mess the Broken Hill Junction direc-
tors made of things in publishing details of the mill work
when they did ! Their worst enemy would hardly have
dared to assert that the ore that was being put through
the mill was only 10 per cent, stuff. And with such low-
grade crudes, how can people be expected to believe in
the 75 - 5 per cent, lead recovery which is claimed? Not
even the best mill in Broken Hill could do it, running on
a commercial basis. And then take the concentrates —
57-2 per cent, lead and 28oz. silver. That is to
say, very little more than half the tonnage is lead.
The' returning charge to he paid on the pro-
duct would be the same if the concentrate went
65 per cent. lead. Had the concentrate been
brought up to that grade, even with only the same quan-
tity of lead in it, there would be 16 tons less on which to
pay the returning charge. The company must have lost
a few hundreds of pounds on that week’s run, for it is
scarcely possible to suppose that their working costs can
he less than 20s. per ton at the present time. This kind
of thing looks as though the old directors will get back.
* * * *
The Welcome Stranger (Wyalong, N.S.W.), in
the early days one of the most important properties and
one which produced the largest cake of smelted gold at a
single crushing (1300 oz.), is again coming to the front.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited).
Specially constituted by Act of
Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Agents, etc.
Trust Funds under Administration at
30th June, 1910 - £7,964,820 19s. 10d.
2< 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney,
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
•Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building;, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, . Kalgxtorlie.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * * *
The Imperial Horse-Breeding and Pastoral
Association, Ltd., is a concern being formed with 100,000
shares at £1 each for the purpose of taking over the
estate and business of The Horse-Breeding and Pastoral
Syndicate, Ltd., of Haslingden Block, Cloncurry (Q.). It
is proposrd to issue only 50,000 shares at present, of
which 35,000 are offered at par in the Commonwealth.
The vendors have preference right to call at par 30,000
shares to be issued in London or elsewhere, after the
issue of the 35,000 shares in the Commonwealth. The
vendors’ present consideration is £15,000 in cash orfully-
paid-up shares, or partly in cash and partly in shares, as
the purchasing company cares to decide. Haslingden is
held on a 35 years’ lease, at a rental of £433, 15s. per
annum, and the area is 694 square miles. Theco. is ap-
parently out to breed horses to meet the military de-
mands, and these demands should increase greatly when
the compulsory training system gets into its stride.*
‘‘Ferrodor” Paint. —Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Ag’ents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
THE GREAT INCREASE IN WORKING
PRESSURE of steam boilers has enhanced the necessity
of thoroughly reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
steam-tight piston glands and steam joints, as well as
perfect insulation of exposed steam heated surfaces to
prevent radiation and ensure transmission of heat. Bell’s,
Asbestos packed water gauges, blow-off cocks, stop and
check valves, Bell’s Dagger packing and Bellite jointing.
Bell’s Asbestos flexible pipe lagging and non-conducting
composition will ensure economy and safety to steam
users. BELL’S ASBESTOS Australian Agency, Ltd.,
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.*
* * * *
The works of the Austral Otis Engineering
Company at South Melbourne are at present busily en-
gaged in connection with the copper industry, and
among the works in hand are a complete converter plant
for the Great Fitzroy Mines, consisting of two blowing-
stands witli steam power turning gear, and six steel con-
verters each 10ft. oin. by 7ft. 6in. diameter, tw-o pneumati-
cally operated telescopic blowing hoods and main flue
connections, concentrate briquetting machines and water
jackets for the blast furnaces ; several very large water
jackets for the Great Cobar Copper Mines ; steel framed
converter housing, two pneumatically operated telescopic
blowing hoods and fnani flue connections for the converter
plant, and hvdro-pneumatic tamping cranes for converter
lining, for Wallaroo and Moonta Copper Mines, South Aus-
tralia ; steel water jackets and crushing rolls for the Phillips
River Copper Company, West Australia ; and a complete
100-ton water-jacketed blast furnace and steej main
chimney, sft. diam. and 150 ft. high, for the Hampden
Cloncurry Mines, Queensland. The Company have also in
hand the construction of the extensive coal screens,.con-
veyors, automatic tipplers and coal hoppers required
for the State Coal Mines at Powlett River.*
* * * *
Coo), fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement”
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney, and 581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [3
•*■*•*•»
The Insurance. Freeman, Liverpool, under
date October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited:—“ln every branch of busi-
ness success has been marked with sagacious manage-
ment, and it must be highly gratifying to all concerned
to note that the huge surplus at the last valuation has
been put to most excellent and practical use in strength-
ening its resources.”*
WOOD PIPE is specially adapted for Aus-
tralian conditions where the soil often contains alkali and
mineral which would soon eat away metal pipes. In
Wood Pipe there is no exposed metal. Catalogue from
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office ; Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
Refractory Mines.— Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
TUCKETT & STYLES, Alachinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.—Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine' is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* ' [1
* * * -*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes mav
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
*■*-*•*■
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Cou.ison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbicrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders tp 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The improvement is due to a party of tnbntors having
recently taken possession. Originally the shoot of gold
cut out at a depth of 1800 ft., and crushings for a number
of years have been few and patchy. Recently the party
have struck good stone in driving north at the 300 ft.,
and some eight tons treated at Cookie Creek yielded 12oz,
gold per ton. This is the property over which at one
time Mr. J. Whear Roberts, on behalf of the Hongkong
company, had an option, but failed to makegood. In
faot, very little, if any, prospecting was done on the
Str.nger, though a considerable sum was spent on
development work at the White Reef and Barrier pro-
perties. In connection with these two last-named pro-
perties, it was extremely hard luck for Mr. Roberts that
a short-time after his company had given up possession
and fjqld the plant at a ruinous sacrifice, a party of
tributors should have stepped in and, by continuing a
erossout, struck the long-looked-for reef. It yielded
several tioh crushings, and led to the properties being-
taken over by the Jewish syndicate.
•** * *
Caniliplego copper mine (N.S.W.) is going- in
for a campaign of vigorous development, and the primi-
tive whip-horse is to be displaced by a hauling winch and
boiler. When the shaft has been sunk a few more feet,
the lode,.which is about 2ft. wide in the shaft, will be
driven on north and south at the 300 ft. level. The coun-
try is Silurian siate and the ore is highly basic, and carries
small quantities of gold and silver. Ore from No. 2 level
is occasionally sent in to the Great Cobar works to be
smelted, and this has helped to keep the pot boiling.
East Mexican (Charters Towers) has sunk its
underlie shaft 235 ft. below the 760 ft. level. The bunches
of stone met with a few daj-s since seem to have passed
out. This shaft will have between 400 ft. and 500 ft. to go
to reach a depth corresponding with No. 5 level, and it
wants to strike the latter at a point considerably more to
the 'east than the present face, which has not reached
400 ft. from the western boundary. The New Brilliant
F., nextdoor, has driven its top or boundary level 560 ft.,
and appears to be following leaders of mineral stone on
both walls. Any improvement in the Freehold’s upper-
crust is eagerly watched by Mexican shareholders. No
doubt, the little crushing that recently averaged £l3
17s. 2d. from No. 6 level was picked stuff. The good
Stone is extending further east than No. 6 has been
driven. The mistake in the past seems to have been to
consider the footwall side of the formation the most im-
portant, for it is the neglected hanging wall that has
carried the best stone. That was also the case in the
Freeholds, where the mineral stone formed a loop on the
hanging-wall side, subsequently rejoining the main
footwall formation.
East Mexican (Charters Towers) telegraphs
that the total return from 197£ tons of stone crushed
since starting work again at No. 6 level amounts to
£2SBI. This will give the co. something to go on with,
and the average pans out remarkably well, but it is an
expensive job to sink the shaft some’hundreds of feet to
connect with No. 6 level. Other development work on
the make of stone recently found at, the end of No. 5
will snap up a good deal of money. So far, nothing very
extensive has been found, though it is just possible that
the original prospecting operations along No. 5 level
from Mills’ United boundary may have missed a six-inch
leader on the hanging-wall side, which is the side that
has recently held the best prospects. A block of several
feet of formation often separates the leaders on the two
walls, so it is easy for one of these to remain undisclosed
for some time. That was the case with the New
Brilliant Freehold, which is still on the loop of good
stone which branched into the hanging wail.
* * * *
At the Broughton, 12 miles from Charters
Towers, developments in Blucher’s Victory reef continue
pretty good. A crushing of 71 tons returned over £9
per ton, and there is still 6in. of mineral showing at the
end of No. 3 level. This locality is patchy. The market
doesn’t go very strong on the Broughton reefs ; still, to
some extent, this may be prejudice influenced by mis-
directed prospecting in the past. The Stockholm, which
belongs to the Brilliant P. C. Co. crushed 1031 tons for
£3478. Prospecting at the old workings doesn’t appear
t.o have been successful ; but some of the slopes in the
bottom levels are in fairly good fettle. There is some
talk of re-opening the Black Jack mine, which proved
rather disappointing to previous owners. A party of
miners is giving the old show a trial.
* * * *
Mills United (Charters Towers) cleaned up
£5960, but £3454 of this was from the half-yearly clean-
ing at the mill. No. 14 shows better prospects going
east at 732 ft., and it is hoped that this level will
eventually pick up the shoot of payable stone worked
over No. 13. This level also shows some improvement at
the extreme eastern end, so the conditions are more
encouraging for the adjacent New Brilliant Freeholds.
Driving No. 10-level from Mills’ side into the New Bril-
liant has been started on stone of medium quality. From
the shaft side of the N.B.F. lease No. 3 is in 139 ft., and
has been following a diorite formation 9ft. wide, carrying
small veins of mineralised stone near the walls. 'The
shaft is down 67ft. below No. 3 level, so it will not he
long before No. 4 level can be driven westwards to meet
the extension of Mills’ No. 10. The stopes over No. 1 and
No. 2 levels appear to be in. pretty good fettle, and
the reef cut in the hanging-wall crosscut, after being
driven in for 50ft., shows some signs of improvement.
The declaration of the fourth dividend has given the
market a slightly firmer tone. Still prospects at a depth
remain uncertain, so the market is waiting for better
developments.
; * * * *
Great Australian copper mine (Cloneurrv, Q.)
blewits whistle a few days since, but the only work in
hand was the sampling of.the big calcite formation, which
would make smelting profitable if the richer section of
the mine could be handled at a reasonable cost. That,
of course, would involve a good deal of development
work.
* * * *
Queensland’s old gold-field, Ravenswood,
treated 1627 tons of stone last month for an average yield
of £4lBs. 6d. per tori. Charters Towers produced a total of
16,3940 z. The ore treated was 17,600 tons, and t.he aver-
age pans out a substantial £3 16s. 7d. This includes
gold from the battery, the cyanide vat and the return on
concentrates. Mount Morgan’s return, exclusively from
gold ore, only gave an average of £1 12s; 5d., just a shade
under Bdwt. per ton. Gympie returned an average of
£1 16s. 2d. on 13,4'28 tons of stone. It is mostly free
milling stuff, and nearly all the gold is recovered in the
form of amalgam.
*** ' *
Great Fitzroy (Queensland) after taking copper
at-£57 _l7s. 6d., estimates its revenue for June at £8968,
which is £4745 less than the working cost of producing
copper matte amounted to. A production of approxf-
mately 136 tons of copper, 7260 z. of gold, and g4340z. of
silver is obviously inadequate to stand a working cost of
£13,713, which is at the rate of over £lOO per ton of
blister copper, and the Fitzroy blister even at full market
prices doesn’t appear to contain more than £B2 worth of
gold, silver and copper. But “blister” or copper con-
tents, including the precious metals, do not return the
Great Fitzroy quite £66 per ton ; so it is quite
evident that this co. is handling matte at a
disadvantage. No doubt the converter plant,
which has already cost a lew thousand pounds,
will relieve the situation to some extent. The smelter
treated 4815 tons of crude ore together with 467 tons of
concentrates, so there is a heavy tonnage to set against
£13.713 working costs. Unfortunately the latter, instead
of coming down to 275. per ton, seein'to be climbing up-
wards, and it will be noticed that the familiar analysis
of working costs has passed out of the monthly report.
All that can be truthfully said in favor of the Great Fitz-
roy is that there are imaginable circumstances under
which an all-round extraction of 2J percent, copper and
10s. worth could be made to yield a profit, but in this
case they are difficult to comply with.
**■ **
Hampden copper mine (Queensland), after
sinking its winze for 45ft. from the surface, finds that the
rich 20 per cent, ore has been displaced by leached gossan
of no value. It is quite likely, however, that prospect-
ing will reveal another make of ore, for these enrich-
ments seem to have been leached out of the surrounding
gossan. But the Hampden requires some rich patches to
even up the 7 per cent, stuff which forms the hulk of its
reserves. This co.’s Duchess mine, at its 400 ft. level,
appears to have run into low-grade ore again 279 ft. north
of the shaft; but as the drive only discloses part of a
wide formation crosscutting may show better results.
If the co. intends to put up a smelter to treat its ore, it
is quite evident that a heavy capital expenditure will be
required, so there is an tineas)’ feeling. Neither of the
Hampden co.’s mines appears likely to return any
revenue for some time to come.
■* * * *
Mount Morgan’s revenue last month (June)
amounted to £88,809, which is only slightly under the
average for the previous 12 months. Copper is taken at
the flat rate of £5O per ton, so nominally the revenue has
been unaffected by the slump in the metal market.
Reduced values from gold ore and a considerable increase
in the value of gold contained in blister copper are the
distinguishing features in the monthly return. Last
month the 17,200 tons of copper ore smelted con-
tained on the average ll’24dwt. of gold to the
ton of ore, so it is not surprising to find
that the total gold value in 583 tons of copper
swells up to 99110 z. worth £41,626 at 84s. per
oz. A gold value of £7l per ton of copper is, however,
exceptional even for Mount Morgan, and this is also made
apparent by a study of the value contained in ore re-
serves. The average for a large proportion of the
reserves is about Sdwts. with 3 per cent, copper; hut
every extra pennyweight when the returns spring for-
ward, as they have recently done, adds something over
£6 per ton to the value of “ blister.”
* -X- * *
For three months, ending June 30, Chillsigoe
railway shows a gross revenue of £29,830, compared with
£19,773 for a corresponding period last year. A gain of
over £lO,OOO for the quarter must have been accom-
panied by a heavy increase in expenditure, for trains
have now to run over a much longer distance. Ohillagoe has
fixed up another smelting contract with the Einasleigh
copper mine' and has entered into somewhat different
arrangements with the Mungana Co. A battery that
was previously at Emuford has been purchased by the
Ohillagoe Co., and will be used on some of the zinciferous
refractory material. Whether, as time goes on, the
copious supply of water at Mungana will be availed of to
concentrate on an extensive scale, must depend on the
development of lead ore at deeper levels. Judging by the
assays, some of the sulphide ore sent to the smelter is
not above concentrating grade.
*** * •
“ Melilla ” : Tin mines in the Herberton (North
Queensland) district don’t look very bright at present,
even though black tin is £9O per ton. Coolgarra, once a
lively centre (who doesn’t remember the Alhambra and a
score of other shows !), with a 20-head battery and plant,
is about deserted. The battery has been dismantled, 10
head going to Mount Carbine, a wolfram field 20 miles
north of Mount Molloy ; arid 10 head going to Watsonville.
The residents are going to the dogs or parts unknown.
Stannary Hills, although doing some development work,
is advertising several of its shows as open to tribute ! It
has arrived at last! ! A new manager is coming ; but a
new lode (big and good) would be very welcome. Smith’s
Creek is hors de combat, but the mill is still standing.
The usual offer to let on tribute will probably soon follow.
The Vulcan at Irvinebank is like a consumptive who has
been refused by a life insurance office ; and stone is hard
to get at Irvinebank. At Gurrumbah and thereabouts
the kangaroos have hopped back to the tin hills, and are
doubtless thankful for the Shelter provided by the excava-
tions. A couple of rock wallabies have taken possession of
a “ famous ” shaft. The tin having gone, the wallabies have
returned. A lady emu with a family of chicks lodges in
another mine which was going to pay big divs., but
didn’t. At Watsonville there has been a ray of light at
the old North Australian, once a rich show. Rich ore
has been again located, and Moffat is shifting a 10-head
battery from Coolgarra to it. HOw long the ore will last
is another question. Herberton is, as usual, neither
dead nor alive. Ttie railway works exposed some tin in a
cutting at Nigger Creek—about the first time a railway
has done this sort of thing in the North.
A letter from Zeehan (Tasmania): “Silver-lead
mining has been very sick here for some time now, and
it looks us though the galena lodes only live down about
250 ft. The deepest shaft on the field (Zeehan-Western),
1000 ft., and subsidised by the Government, failed to get
any ore. Most of the principal mines are shut down,
and the local smelters only run spasmodically. Failing-
some development at a greater depth, it looks very much
as though silver-lead mining on the West Coast is
doomed. A few surface shows are being discovered, and
the Montana co. has found a new make of ore in the
shallow levels of the mine. These are the only bright spots.
Otherwise the prospect is about the color of Johnson.
But residents are consoled by the fact that tin-mining
in the Renison Bell and Stanley River districts, about
nine miles from Zeehan—is prospering. The Renison
Bell, Boulder and Montana tin companies are doing well,
whilst there are a number of other shows held under
option which are likely to develop into good ventures.
No wild cats have yet been placed on the market, and
men who should know say that the district promises to
be one of the best in the island. Renison Bell and
Boulder mines—controlled from Hobart and Devonport
respectively—have batteries, and are treating the oxi-
dised ore near the surface, which supply should last for
some years. After that they must reckon with the
pyritic ore, and it must be calcined to admit of success-
ful treatment. The zinc pr positions in the Mount Read
and Rosebery districts are merely marking time pending
some more satisfactory method of treatment. Hercules
co. (Mount Read) formerly sent its richest ore to the
Zeehan Smelting Co. under contract, but by some means
the contract was broken. As a consequence, very little
u'ork is going on, except the breaking of the richest zinc
ore, which is shipped ‘away to employ German artisans.
Now' the company has applied for a site on which to erect
a plant for the treatment of its own ores. The smelting
people look upon the proposal as a bluff intended to force
their hands ; but others say the co. is in earnest.
Zeehan-Montana (Tas.) chairman Griffith
won’t believe geologist Twelvetrees when he reports that
payable ore will be found at depth in the mine. Most of
the experience of the world goes in that direction, and as
geologists can’t see any farther below the bottom of a
level than the practical miner or the ignorant director,
he is on fairly safe ground in not building on mere deduc-
tions. More tangible is manager Crage’s strike at No. 3
level, where a shoot of ore 100 ft. long-has been picked up.
Another find has been made near the : Zeehan western
claim, but this ore shows little width. Crage’s other
string- is a tin claim at Dundas. Here is a tunnel through
55ft. of formation that goes 1J per cent, of tin oxide.
There ought to be money in this if the average is as
staled, but the Board isn’t moving as fast as Sligo and
other Dundasites like. They want more ore proved and
it-< value settled before planking out for the plant, thus
showing that even Bull has occasional gleams of mental
light.
* * * *
Langford and Blue Peter Ekberg take up
a whole column of the Age to tell of the wonders of the
Mount Balfour field and of the Mount Balfour mines in
particular. Langford is not out of the way, but Ekberg
weaves a woof full of.dazzling radiance. There’s an out-
crop miles in length, and, if width means much, full of
hidden wealth. So Ekberg, like one of the liti le men of
the Hartz Mountains, is not only conjuring up copper,
but he has in view a railway, a nest of smelters
and a big electrical scheme. This is all very nice
and very far-seeing. But “first get yotir hare.”
Then the railway and the electric power schemes will
come in handy. Langford and Ekberg are not fools,
and must see that finances will have soon to be built up.
The only way to get a sure hold on the capitalist is to
show permanency of ore. And 120 ft. of sinking, though
backed up with tons of guff, won’t fill up the film. But
another 200 ft. of sinking and successful development will.
Only £sono is left in the locker. Why not be business-
like and use that for sinking and mining, instead of frivol-
ling with all kinds of outside projects, which are not
worth talking over unless the ore is there ?
* * * *
First, Peter M'Bride vowed he would not con-
sent to any amalgamation of Langi Logan leases, Ararat
(Vic.). Now' he nods his head while the North claim
is being rent in twain to enable a tuck to be put in the
New Langi skirt, with a bit of frilling added in the form
of £6OOO of the North’s good gold. Considering the pot
of hard cash made out of the float of these tw-o shows the
floatees must have chanted benedicite over Peter when he
assented to this rake in. Calls will be staved off—a
consideration to some of the 30s. birds, seeing the
state of the Cathcart. One good thing about
the New Langi is that it is at work. South
is nearly as idle as Peary’s North Pole. Why should the
crowd that’s hanging on to that lease meander on while
the New Langi has to sink and drain the gutter. If
Peter has a kindly eye to Labor he ought to belt this
sluggard with a Jack Johnson right arm.
* * * w
H. Hartrick, of Wallialla (Vic.), after long
battling, has got a Mount Lyell crowd, possessed of
some cash and wide worlds of experience, to take on the
copper mine on the Thomson River. The lure is not only
the copper, but the associated platinum, which adds more
than usual gold values to ore of the kind. The mine is at
the bottom of the nastiest pinch on the VValhalla-road,
to which those who have passed it in safety look back as
a finger-post in life’s experience. The copper sulphides
exist in a hard diorite dyke, and it was only afier
Ilartrick’s silver tongue and golden cheek had got the
Government drill at work, that outsiders began to look
at the abandoned show as having a possible. With a
record of nearly 1000 tons of an output of copper, the
deposit deserved better treatment than to be converted
into a highway danger signal. Now the railway will
cheapen transit, and with the Thomson River at the foot
of the mine to give power and ore proved by the drill,
Victoria may be able to show that it can produce another
metal besides gold.
* * * *
Associated (Kalgoorlie, W.A.) is still weighted
down with trouble. Recently a few furnaces were shut
down on account of some of the sulphide ore being- too
poor to roast, and since then the mill supplies have been
leavened with oxidised stuff. Latter, however, hasn’t
gone to the mill in sufficient quantity to improve the
extraction ; consequently the co. finds itself up against
another bad month’s run. Two courses are now left
open to the mine authorities: (f) enlarge the plant and
let the grade stand, or (2) reduce the tonnage and put up
the grade. The latter would, of course, mean scooping
out the best ore and leaving the rest behind; but even
this cream-skimming way of doing things would be pre-
ferable to continuing on in the present policy of working
the mine at a loss. Possibly the Board will arouse
itself to a sense of the fitness of things by the
time the shareholders’ meeting is held on July
27, and put an end to the present farce.
Kalgurli’s fine bore-hole development at 1550 ft. is being
confirmed by the crosscut, the last 36ft. averaging fiom
25dwt. to several ounces per ton. Ignoring high assays,
the drill core indicated a width of 58ft. of 25dwt. ore, so
that the crosscut still has something ahead of it. But
even if expectations in this respect are fulfilled the noto-
rious lack of continuity of values in the mine has to be
reckoned with, so that until some driving has been done
it is a gamble whether the bore and crosscut are in the
centre of a big lens of rich ore or have struck the kernel,
leaving only the shell to be exposed. Meantime street
talk and the buying of people influenced by same has
added about £120,000 on to the market valuation of the
property.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold output for the half- year ended
June was 729,578 fine ounces, or 52,4890 z. less than was
produced for the corresponding period of 1909. The total
yield to date is 22,343,5780 z., valued at £94,898,227.
* * * *
The Bullfinch, near Southern Cross (W.A.), is
getting good notices in the West. One small -s|oz.
crushing has just been dug out, and a 6oz. one is
expected shortly. The local paper reckons that, apart
from three rich lodes, sufficient high-grade ore is located
within the lease pegs to satiate the gold hunger of the
greediest prospector. But then it has said the same
thing or something similar about dozens of other shows
in.the district which didn’t come to anything, so that its
opinion isn’t top sound. Jlowever, it has a chance of
coming out on top in the case of the Bullfinch.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) has just received its
new 1000-horse-poiver turbo generator from Germany,
and its erection is now in hand. This piece of machinery
is th • first of its kind in the West, and its special mission
will be to run on exhaust steam, and knock a bit off
present power costs.
* * * *
Doleful extract from chairman’s report on the
Menzies Dreadnought (W.A.): “The mine has not real-
ised anticipations... . Values are low, and the cost of
mining by hand labor high—in fact, too high to be
worked at a profit... . The property is a very difficult one
to w,ork economically, owing to the shallow pitch of the
reef. . . . Finding that the mine was not proving satisfac-
tory, we decided, on information supplied by one of our
shareholders, to open up a parallel line of reef in an
adjoining property.” In other words, after the Dread-
nought had been boomed sky-high in the local press
without official protest for 12 months, its failure as a pro-
fitable venture is admitted, and the announcement made
that, acting on the advice of someone who was probably
egged on by someone else, the Board has decided to
splash up the remainder of the co.’s cash in prospecting
an adjoining show. But then people are generally freer
with other people’s money than they are with their own.
Ivanboe (W.A.) has now two new irons in the
fire. In addition to riddling the old Ivanhoe Junction
block with holes at 2000 ff., the co. has decided to cross-
cut west at 2270 ft. in the Ivanhoe lease. No work has
been done on this side of ihe property below 1669 ft.
where the prospects obtained were not much to blow
about. The east or main shoot is looking first-rate at
the present deepest level of 2120 ft., and also in the winze
—which has been sunk 76ft. below this point.
Lake View and Hannan’s Star (W.A.) are
being connected by locomotive tram; but it will prob-
ably be September before Star ore can be sent to the
Lake View mill. Meantime the amalgamated concern is
rubbing along on what it can dig out of the Lake View
which, judging by the last two months’ average, isn’t
worth much.


What’s the time? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE, the world-wide Cold
and Grip Remedy removes cause. Call for full name.
Look for signature—E. VV. GROVE. 1/IJ. [2
LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney, a
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lilt and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
? I*
ml
FOR
tcsPetCaiionlhar
VACUUM MOBIL. OIL
Saves One*Third of Your Running Cost.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
A REPROOF.
“ Look 'ere, waiter, you needn' think becos I
come from the country I ain't got no table
manners. Why the dickens didn'cher lay a
knife fer to eat me peas wiv?"
“ Jimmie Pannikin The dingo is play-
ing sad havoc among the sheep away up in the
backyard of N.S.W., about Tibooburra. At the
last quarterly District Stock Board meeting, held
this month, the returns showed that 610 dingoes
and 40 foxes were paid for during the quarter.
The fox will soon out-rival the dingo in numbers.
On Olive Downs there are said to be 100 miles of
dog-traps set. The manner of dog-trapping
out back is rather interesting. A stump or
clump of bushes is selected ; against this a
bullock’s head or large lumps of meat are
placed. Two V-shaped wings, 3ft. or 4ft. long,
made of bushes, are arranged. The dog-trap
is buried a few feet away, a small piece of paper
covering the spring. Sand is spread over the
lightly-buried weapon-o’-war. Aniseed or iodi-
form is sprinkled near the spring. A hunk of
raw meat is dragged along the ground for about
300 or 400 yards to make trails, all converging
towards the trap. The dingo follows one of the
trails, gets a lovely and enticing sniff of aniseed
or iodiform, and snaps the trap either on his nose
or legs. He sets to work to release himself by
biting at the trap. The snap-jaws of the trap aie
covered with grease and strychnine, and there is
a dog-funeral. Very often dingoes are run down
by the boundary riders, and laid out with a
deftly-handled stirrup-iron.
“ Edyson ” : Consider how
the lost come home. Many years
ago, in the rough country in the
vicinity of Mount Birregun, be-
tween Omeoand Bairnsdale(Vic.),
a man named Crocur went miss-
ing. He disappeared during the
absence of his wife, who was in
hospital in Melbourne. Crocur’s
house was under a precipitous
slope, and the country above and
around was heavily timbered, and
matted with dense scrub. The
neighbors, few and far between,
imagined that Crocur had fol-
lowed his wife to the metropolis,
and the fact that the man was
lost occurred to no one till it was
too late to expect to find him
alive. However, search parties
went out on several occasions,
but not the faintest trace of
the missing man was found. One
winter’s night, about seven
years later, after a week’s con-
tinuous rain, and during a terri-
fic wind-storm, the face of the
hill abovecameaway, and, among
other things, pitched the dead
and hollow trunk of a big gum
clean through the roof of what had
been Crocur s bedroom. As it
arrived, it emptied a skeleton upon
the floor. Crocur had come home.
The remains were identified by an
old crack in the skull and an in-
scribed brass watch. Apparently
Crocur had climbed the tree for some
purpose, and had fallen into the hollow
butt and perished there, like the lost Sir Mas-
singberd that James Payn wrote about. Another
unexpected return was that of a German, who was
lost in the now well-known sluicing country about
Beechworth. He, too, was searched for most in-
dustriously, but maintained a mysterious disap-
pearance until he turned up unexpectedly in his
own orchard one morning after a flood. He was
dead enough to excuse his protracted absence, and
his curiously mummified body was easily identi-
fied by his relations; but where the flood-waters
had brought him from only Heaven knew. These
are two instances of the curious homing instinct
of human remains, but many more might be
quoted.
* * * *
“ Snakebite’s ” experience :—•
“ W.D.Y.” has had his leg greatly dragged by whoever
told him that a splitter could split 1500 palings in a day
of 8| hours, and do his own billeting too. The record for
Gippsland is about 1200 palings—for two men—one of
them doing all the billeting. Palings here (Vic.) are
' v °rth 6s. per 100 at the stump—l suppose the price is
about the same in S.A. So I guess “ W.D.Y.’s ” splitt( r
will soon be a millionaire. Was camped for some time
with splitters in the Fumina country, and the tricks
they go in for when getting their palings tallied are
manifold. When the logs are billeted a man with a razor-
edged paling knife splits them into palings (each billet
runs out eight palings.) As he splits them he just turns
them over on their side, one on top of the other, and, after
lying for awhile, the sap glues them up together again,
so that, except for the mark of the knife, they resemble
a billet before it is split. They are put in the stack
thus, and when the buyer is tallying he just counts each
as eight palings. Have seen splitters take billets that
were not split at all, mark them down with a knife, and
mix them judiciously through the stack. The fraud
generally escapes detection until the wood reaches the
city. I very much doubt that any tree ever gave 9000
palings and 200 rails. I have known a few trees to give
8000 palings, but then they were very large, free in the
grain, and would split right from the butt.
“ Leo Lear ” : Among the congregation of
gnats, flies, ants, mosquitoes and other snakes
that are attracted to the Bananalander’s
lamp on hot nights in the wet season, there
is a green-bodied, green-winged insect a
shade smaller than a flying ant. I don’t
know what biological records he has left in
the combination of things, or what geogra-
phical name he is burdened with; but to
those on whom he inflicts his society he is
plain stinker. One of these insects in a room
will clear it of humans at anything inside
even time, and the drowned corpse of one of
them can make a cubic mile of soup quite
useless. As a purveyor of stench this cove
licks the camel, or the fox, or any other im-
ported smell unto the fifth and sixth genera-
tion. Indeed, if the odor of the Afghan’s
quadruped was equal, weight for weight, to
that of the stinker insect, 5| camels would
depopulate the universe. lam shipping a
few south to break up the big estates, in case
Andy Fisher’s land-tax is bumped out by the
Tall Court. .
“ Vagabond ” : “ Jimmie Pannikin ”
speaks of the choice meats of goat, galah, etc.
He evidently cultivates a taste in out-of-the-way
dishes, and I’m wondering if he has ever sampled
crow. I can’t speak of Brother Crow of these
parts, because I’ve never tackled one ; and I con-
fess that the specimens I’ve seen dining on dead
sheep have never made my mouth water to think
of them in the pot. But I’ve eaten them in the
Cold Country, and have no hesitation in describ-
ing them as the choicest eating in the bird line.
They are a nuisance to prepare for cooking, as
only the breast and the legs are edible—any other
part of the body tastes so bitter that it twists
your mouth in a double reef knot. And you must
catch your crow young. At any farm which has a
“craw wood” or a “rookery” the farmer will
extend the glad hand and much drink to anyone
who rolls up with a pea-rifle for a day’s sport.
The shoots usually come off in the early spring
when the youngsters are barely able to fly. Now,
I suppose, some enthusiastic naturalist will come
along to confound me by remarking that rook
isn’t crow. P’raps not. One may have serrated
teeth, while the other is a Presbyterian, or one
may have 17 ribs and the other 18. But I only
know that I’ve eaten and shot rooks in England
and crows in Scotland, and I couldn’t tell the
difference without going over them with a micro-
scope. And I don’t eat with a microscope.
AN INSULT TO JUSTICE.
OUTBACK J.P. (severely): “Drunk an' disorderly's a 'obit with yer, Joe; but swearin in
front o' wirnmen’s 'orriblc, an' means a quid or six hours’ cell.”
JOE: “ Thunder , Bob. ain't that a bit thick?"
J.P. (enraged): “Do yer think it's me that's gettin' yer dashed quid?"
“ Wilmofc W.” : So far the most infernal
noises in the bush have not been described by
Bulletin blokes. The recipe for the Limit is:
Drink bush-pub rum for one solid week. Leave
the pub stone-broke, carrying a big thirst and a
big swag. Get lost. Find a clump of bull oak.
Lie down and listen to the fantods bellowing in
the darkness. They sound like 2000 bound
maniacs being tickled to death with straws.
* * * *
“ Itan ” : The spectre of desolation always
hovers over the purely mining town. So far
Australia has not many examples of the ghost
being really in possession on a large
scale, but there are a good many ham-
lets left to the mercy of the moth
and the rust and the billygoat. Mount
Jackson in Westralia, quite a preten-
tious townlet in the good days of the
Nil Desperandum and other mines, has
petered out and is entirely abandoned.
The nearest town is Southern Cross,
over 90 miles away, with an unspeak-
ably heavy track in between; so it
wasn’t worth while removing things.
Included amongst the deserted build-
ings are several stone structures, which
tell of the towering hopes of the
pioneers. The main hotel, one of
the most substantial places, has been
abandoned for two years. Joe Byrne,
a well-known Boulderite, kept it when
Mount Jackson rode on the crest of
the wave. Wayfarers who happen to
strike the ghostly centre never fail to
pull at the dry beer pump “for luck.”
Gehenna isn’t drier than that pump.
Every door stands ajar, and the winds
have torn some off their hinges. The
range is still in the kitchen, and
several bedsteads are to be found in
the rooms. It would be easy to fill
a waggon with furniture, but to carry
the plunder over the road to Southern
Cross would ,leave the contractor with
a balance on the wrong side of the
ledger. Many other well-built houses
were deserted the same way. Several
v\ joden structures were destroyed by a
bush fire after the great Exodus, when
Moses abandoned the crockery and
led the Children of Jackson across the
wilderness. Some day the abandoned
reefs may be worked again, and the
old pub may again be tenanted. On
the other hand, it may remain like the hotel
at Palmyra, which lost its license over IGOO
years ago and hasn’t resumed its job even unto
this day.
* * * *
One of the most ancient wooden buildings
in Bananaland is the old courthouse and police
barracks at Taroom. This structute, which is
now superannuated, was put up while Bananaland
was still a part of N.S.W. There are auger holes
in the walls through which the whites used to
fire at Binghi during the “black war,” which
raged in that district about 50 years ago. In two
years 32 whites were killed by black brudder.
The greatest slaughter was at Hornet Bank
station, on October 27, 1857, when 11 were
massacred. The trouble began with petty thefts
by Binghi, but it was the murder of a white man
that set the thing going in real earnest.
“ Moorabinda ” : Apropos “ Itan’s ” par.
(B. IG/6/T0) re Bananaland’s volcanic lakes. For
some hundreds of miles to the north of Lake
Eyre, Central Australia (Lakes District), there is
a limestone formation studded with what are
commonly called “mound springs.” These
mounds are usually about 50ft. high, and orna-
mented on the summit with clumps of tall trees
or bulrushes. They are natural artesian wells;
the water, forced out from below, gushes out over
the top to the level ground, where it forms small
watet-channels. Some of the mounds have little
GR-R-R-R-R-R!!!!!
I slept;
And as I slept I dreamt.
This is what I dreamt
As I slept.
lakes on their summits. Some of these springs
are perfectly fresh and good, but others are more
or less sal in et and are impregnated with various
minerals, though seldom to such an extent as to
render the water unfit for animals. It is the
mineral or earthy deposits brought up by the
springs which have gradually built up the coni-
cal mounds from the summits of which they issue,
just as volcanic cones have been built up by ejec-
tions from the earth's interior. They are, in
fact, water-volcanoes, and they afford good proof
of large subterranean reservoirs.
GETTIN’ BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When we’ve arrived by boat or rail, and feeling pretty
well,
And humped our heavy gladstones to the Great Norsouth
Hotel ;
And when we’ve had a wash and brush and changed biled
rags for soft —
And ate a hearty country meal —our spirits go aloft 1
(Damn the city !)
When we’ve walked out a mile and back along the old
bush traek,
And dropped into the letter-box our last damned letters
back ;
When we’ve turned in and slept half through the soft
white beds all night—
To start at daylight by the coach —we’re getting back all
right.
(Damn the city !)
When we have crossed the nearer heights through box
and stringy-bark,
And traced the newer tree-marked track above the gullies
dark ;
When we begin to ask how far it is to tucker yet—
Where clear streams whet our appetites—we’re getting
back, don’t fret.
(Damn the city !)
We try to draw the driver out (a “case” as like as not),
For we don’t know how much he knows, or how much
we’ve forgot.
And we make bloomers, and the seats seem narrow
slippery shelves—
Until we find he’s only just a liar, like ourselves.
(Damn the city !)
When we can take an interest in all and everything,
When we begin to drop the “g” in words that end in
“ ing,”
When good old oaths come back again, and we can sleep
at night,
And eat our fish with knives and forks —we’re gettin’
back all right.
(Damn the city!)
I’m staying at a lake-side home, down here at Nevermind,
The small hand “separator” is the only change I find,
And there’s a girl with kind grey eyes and hair of
reddish gold,
And she's read somewhere in a book that poets don’t
grow old.
{Damn the city /)
She’s twenty-two, I’m forty-three ; but, ere the week is
done,
She’s only in her eighteenth year, and I am twenty-one !
I’m younger than the younger men, who can’t be young—
or won’t—
She heard that poets don't grow old —and now she knows
they don’t.
(Damn tub city !)
The dandy tourists wonder how the old town hand got
in—
The straight young bushmen wonder how that poet bloke
could win.
But the grand old bush life backed me up, when they
were hard to rouse,
And I TURNED OUT AT SIX O'CLOCK AND HELPED lIKR MILK
THE COWS 1
(DAMN THE CITY!)
N.s.vr.
HENRY LAWSON.


YOU’LL never regret trving
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT
POLISH. ILs undoubted
merits will immediately appeal
to you, and prove the wisdom
of using' it regularly.
CHERRY BLOSSOM is sold in
large tins at 3d. and 6d. each,
Black or Tan. Get a tin to-day.
If you cannot obtain it locally,
write direct to us, and we will
see that you are supplied im-
mediately. Mana g| n g Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
kljhk
Croup.
“ My children are subject to croup,” writes Mrs.
John Braye, Lambton ‘Road, Lambton. N.S.wl
“As soon as I hear them the least bit croupy, I
keep giving them Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
until they are quite well again. It is the best
medicine for croup.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
At the Melbourne Glaciarium, this (Thursday)
evening, Mr. Victor von Wijnbladh will give one of his
refined exhibitions of fancy skating ; and, by public re-
quest, Professor and Miss Charlton will repeat their won-
derful exhibition of artistic ice-skating at four o’clock on
Saturday afternoon. Next Tuesday evening, the grand
fancy dress carnival is to be held. It promises to be
something very special, as every effort is being made to
eelipse all previous events.*
Clement-Bayard
are made by Mons. A. Clement, of “Clement-
Bayard” and “Clement-Talbot ” fame, “The
King of Motor Engineers.” He employs 3000
men at his works at Levallois. The cars, made
under his supervision, have no superiors for
finish, and they possess that intangible element
that makes for perfection of performance and
reliability.
Car as illustrated, with Michelin Tyres, £275, Sydney.
OUR PRICES, too, are 20 per cent, lower than others, as follows Clement-Bayard, 8-14 H.P., 4 Cylinder,
with detachable rear seat, £275; Clement-Bayard, 11-16 H.P.,4 Cylinder, with double phaiton side en-
trance body, £375 ; Clement-Bayard, 12-21 H.P., 4 Cylinder, with double phaeton side entrance body, £440-
SOLE AGENTS:—
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
STANTON COOK, LTD.,
Vice-Regal
Jewellers,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney, in conjunction with
Moior and Electrical
Engineers,
23 Underwood St., off 37 Pitt St., Sydney
A fresh-water perch (Australian bass),
said to be the largest jret seen or heard of, is in
the museum of the ,Brisbane Amateur Fisher-
men’s Association. », It weighs Gib. 7oz. It was
found in a knocked-abont 1 condition on a ledge of
rock in the river near Brisbane. One of its pec-
toral fins was torn off, and there was a large gash
in its side. A sharlyhs thought to have done the
damage. - , ;
* .*!.,* *
“ Yigilans ”: The lease of Melville Island,
34 miles from Port Darwin, has been sold to an
English company. The did lessee, E. O. Robin-
son, nets £5OOO by this deal. Melville was taken
up 20 years ago by Robinson, who was then in
tlie Customs service. For many years
between 1500 and 2000 buffalo hides' have
been exported, and they say there are
between 15,000 and 20,000 beasts there
now. The co. is going to raise buffalo,
can the meat and cure the hides. This
is a movement in the right direction.
The buffalo on Melville Island are a
most wonderful study. In the ’2o’s of
the recently buried century a dozen
beasts were taken there—that was when
the convict station was established at
Fort Dundas—and from that handful of
animals this great herd has evolved.
No fresh buffalo have ever been intro-
duced. The lease has 35 years still to
run. Can anyone tell me where I can
pick up another such island ? The rent
is £3O per annum, and the area 2500
square miles. Bathurst Island, of 740
square miles, adjoins it; but you can’t
get a lease in the Territory now, and
there are no hornies upon Bathurst
Island. This co. will do good business
in the Territory. Buffalo-raising should
be one of the chief industries of the
North, but you must levy an export
tax on the hides to make the people
tan them in the country. There is
plenty of good bark—wattle, mangrove
and bloodwood. To develop the Terri-
tory you must establish industries such
as meat works, tanneries, butter fac-
tories and dairies. The North will
not be developed joy growing tropical
plants, but by raisinganimalslike buffalo.
Zebu cattle, Angora goats, pigs, Timor ponies
and hybrids. That is how the country will be-
come great. Sugar cannot be grown successfully
in the Territory, but sisal hemp and rice may be
so. You cannot raise European animals in tropi-
cal Australia, but mixed farming on sound lines,
with tropical animals, should turn the North into
a hive of industry.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: The mullet that come up
the Burnett (Queensland) are the most crafty in-
dividuals in the fish occupation in the Common-
wealth. Netting is the most successful way of
closing the argument, with explosives a good
second. Members of the Defence Force use their
rifles. A bullet plunked into the water as the
fish swim past makes sufficient concussion to turn
them belly up in a fainting condition. The
youngsters along the banks shoot at the jumping
mullet with shanghais, but this is about as
effective as shooting at a meteorite with a bicycle-
pump. I often wondered why mullet were so
seldom left to die in stagnant pools when a creek
fizzled out in a dry’spell. But one day I saw
dozens of them practically running into the
river from a failing creek—running over sand
banks that were just lapped with enough water to
floatapintof thistle-down. Whiledragginga net, I
have watched mullet lie in the little hollows of
the sand until the net passed over them ; then
they streaked for the open water and safety. Bv
the time you catch a Burnett mullet you have
earned him.
“B. Caborme”:
When I arrived at
Lightning Ridge
(N.S.W.) opal field,
one of the first
things I heard
about was the quad-
rille club. The fol-
lowing day; being
introduced to the
secretary, I asked
him if I could join.
He told me I would
have to deposit £2
with my applica-
. tion, that my name
would require to be
posted outside the
hall for a week, and
then if no objec-
tions were made
I would be duly
admitted as a mem-
ber. At the end of
the week I had
passed through all
the preliminaries,
and on Saturday
night got into my
most blatant even-
ing-dress and went
to meet the elite of
the Ridge. On
arriving at the
club’s hall I found
that dancing was
already in progress,
but I was surprised
to see nothing but
“buck” sets, and
the blokes were
wearing hats but no
coats, and smoking
pipes or cigarettes.
I asked t'hp secre-
tary where the
ladies were.
“ ’Struth ! ” he re-
plied, “you don’t
want much for your
money. How many
skirts do you' think
vour two quid would import from Goodooga—for
there ain’t none nearer than that?” I then ap-
plied for a refund, and was “given the chat” that
if I made a row “ somebody would pass me a job
on the nose.” Bo I wrote off the £2 as a bad debt.
* * * *
“Cross Nibs”: Re the liberal distribu-
tion of edible material, attributed to the folk of
Outback. ’Twas but a few autumns ago that
three natives of the Ma State gathered up their
shoulder upholstery and available silver and went
forth to meet the primal sheds. Their objective
was the sand-strewn waste beyond the Paroo.
They were easily'punctual to secure participation
in the pruning of the rani’s progeny. At the
Warrego the commissariat bore sufficient flour
to evolve seven feather-weight johnny cakes.
Thq triumvirate held an indignation meeting, and
ultimately interviewed the proprietor of a lone
THE DEFENDANT.
SHE: “ Mathew, your hens have been in my
garden again! ”
HE: “ Nay, my love, they have not.”
SHE: “Seeing is believing. I found this on the
grass.”
HE : “ Why, I laid it there myself.”
habitation adjacent to the sluggish gutter,
for the purpose of supplying freight to the
nosebag. Combined eloquence resulted in the
party retiring with half a shirt-sleeve lined with
bakers’ dust and a light sprinkle of Chinese
herb. A precipitate exit was executed with a
view to outpacing the pangs of perish. Then
followed long stages vividly illustrated with re-
buffs and excuses from food-stuffists, and the
voyagers grew cynical and desperate on artesian
water and profanity. After much reckless driv-
ing of the boot they found themseves in prox-
imity to a haven of sustenance dotting the ex-
tensive domain of a western mutton-monarch,
A descent upon the out-station revealed a foreign
cook who feared the loss of his office as a
Fusionist dreads the national election. “De
store lockup, de bossa carry de key !” was the gist
of his reiterated monotone. Fifty or 60 miles
were waiting to be heeled out, and the stress of
famine smote the pilgrims in the nourishment
A GOOD CATCH.
BILLJIM : “ Missa Andy, Missa Andy, make it
haste! Mine bin cot one big feller alligator. ”
zone A nersisfent and clamnrnns nrmncririnn
zone. —■ persistent and clamorous opposition
dissipated the chefs obduracy and lie donated a
limited section of ram stag. Ten minutes later
an alfresco restaurant was in business upon the
arid environment, and the famished fed raven-
ously. Here the epicure should rush into the
scrub The nrevious hlowflv bad selected the
scruo. xne previous D owny Had selected tile
gratuitous diet for a family residence. Ihe next
oasis on the track of strenuous pedestrianism was
a mail change, and as the travellers con-
sidered their condition and the niggardly nature
of the holders of help, they determined upon a
heart-breakins- scorch And tliev got thmimh
V f r j l SCO ' LI) - .. A " d they b r Ot through.
Kef used at the 2-j-imle (or was it the JJ9-
mile?) by a hater of blokes metropolitan,
they entered an abandoned but, being driven
thereto by the lash of stomach rebellion. The
addition to the menu was a small tin of sugar and
a few potatoes. These unlawful proceedings
caused three triers on the track to make a detour,
and occasioned the torments of Sheol to their
overtaxed physiques. Anyhow they saw the
game through with a strong run of luck, and to-
day they are exemplary citizens. Now, “J.
Pannikin.” please postpone the elevation of your
pedagogic brisket while I gum this advice on
tj _ i{ i-i ii i
y o < togvi. Harness yourself with bluchers
and a swag, and silently steal away to where the
camel rears his hump, and then trumpet your
testimony of the Lone Land’s largesse. Till then
I will toil at my avocation where the victuals
cluster thickest and the fleeting tram bounds
i c P, i ,
n the ciowded thoioughfare of the metropolis,
* * * *
“Wang’s” bllie-l'ibbon story:—
~.., . , , ,
he was nrnml f chainpion beer-tank of Speewah—and
he was proud of it. His relatives weren’t; and many
and various were the arts and wiles by which they tried
k A''°’ b , utall to 110l 10 P ur P° se -
rather Jones had failed, though he spoke much of Hell,
nvd,^ e fnr V p„ i iv' ketC - heS K° f b, ' inlstonp t 0 C< : me ; 16 r u e -
ulahe faintl V aUnnV v. bo f h r i SaVe a " lastel ., f, ' oni the
his nearest thecler,c ’ Andrew Ferguson
C isev a nri PP ° > ° alne ° ] )'. el ’, °' ie and offered
Thft niP-ht utinsnr Tvf i n T‘ R a "' asaco fP ted -
ti rne m t eifl a " d * , 2 l ™ hand ’ Abpl ? mlfch - t
liersnira Hon anH' v.rJk.'.Ti?'' P ''° P f t ty ; a " d aftel ; T° h
hne round H ’• 11 |° f-asten a clothes-
<‘ave ilrv nf " l ,nd ’l*- oaSey
usual heimr the ,t P orlier > Casej, as
ing and dr Vint hfs V " w t a Job coax -
afe hour t ofori rhn L P jn V . , and ' t was , a
It had been wathh./daV or 11 f sl,p, f ,ls , at Ferguson s.
of garments we, P m & ,UU o her
The boar eved thesp with dioiit ' ow 'b lns: K j s ' es 10 dr J-
until Perciison anrl Ahpl nd refused to proceed
Then the hoar
of his driver’s hands hrnlr P rh °t tb th* ° Pe ’^ r t II
around his nenU a wl)itlat l lf , t surub ’
for home with fhp tun mpn off-p** v. 8
SSSSSff 2
the darkness, struck Casey from his precarious foothold,
and tore nvpr hi« rr n • . *
la when ni^^rs „m-s a, X.d ? I mmutes
nT'r
inside his house .and revived him, sleep
DAWN IN THE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What a fair gift this crystal morn,
Whereon the world is newly born,
And every flower that Nature grew,
A fairy chalice filled with dew,
Dew-bathed, sun-kissed, and showered with light,
After the long and stifling night;
When o’er the brain illusion flings
The shadow of her mazy wings. >
Distance enchanted azure spills
Upon the hazy cloud-crowned hills ;
The bush-trees rising, green and high,
In belts of verdure fringe the sky
Among their boughs the song-birds call,
Upon the grass their shadows fall,
O’er the clear waterhole, that locks
The creek—a jagged ring of rocks.
Sandy and ledged the shallow side
Where armor-plated crayfish llide ;
Grey loosened boulders lie alone
With dank and spongy moss-O’ergrown,
broken from crags, wind-seared and steep,
That high above tlje valley Sleep,
One hour of sun and suinmef breeze
Worth all their silent centuries.
A moon, belated, wanders through
The distant Heavens, deep and blue,
A circle dim of veilbd gold,
The specks upon its surface scrolled
Ice-mountains in an icy sea,
Frozen for all eternity,
Upon whose shrouded summits old
The saddened sun falls grey arid cold.
Calamity god-like and vast,
A world to death and ruin cast ; ,
’Midst swimming orbs in seas of light
A derelict of endless night 1
The rising breeze blows fresh and free
Out of a cool and silver sea ;
On its pure breath my thoughts arise
To spirit-glory in the skies ;
The soul of peace that slides from space
On earth doth find a resting-place,
Suffusing floods of grace divine,:
That through the morning’s glory shine.
Lulled by soft spells doth Nature lie,
And in the heart of Nat ure, I,
Piercing earth’s glimmering veilithat bars
The splendor that directs the stars 1
N.S.W.
THE BUD.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice Cezcent of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insuiiiciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS.', will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Thomas Cat: You reckon that the clearing up
of the F.tzpatrick charge against the N.S. W. Labor
party “ should come from within the Labor movement.”
How can the charges be cleared up if Wade won’t make
them ? Fitzpatrick dodges responsibility by saying that
certain disreputable things were said by a Labor mem-
ber, not to himself but to Wade. Wade dodges responsi-
bility by refusing to say yes or no. Fitzpatrick implies
that Wade told him. Wade declines to speak. It may
be unspeakable meanness and cowardice, but it is very
safe. How can you refute a thing like that ?.. ..Hollow
Log: Well, for that matter, a share-list and a hare-lip
also sound very much alike if you say them quickly, but
there is no resemblance all the same Scout: “The
Old Soldier” wasn’t complaining because that plan
showed the British front at Waterloo to be 2J miles long;
what he complained of was that, according to the same
scale, the high-road was a mile wide. The mildest man
might give way to anger on seeing a road a mile wide
Hamlet: Write Angus and Robertson, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney. The price of “The Man Shakespeare” is 95.;
postage, another Is Agnostic (Southern Rhodesia):
Sorry can’t use it. Hard to advise, you what to
write about when on “ the outer fringe.” Why not try
to write something about “the fringe” itself?,....
Capilano: Seventy-seven resolutions re Australian
Development Leag-ue to hand, and you say there are
more to come. For the sake of The Bulletin’s eternal
soul boil ’em down William Kan : Try again, and keep
it short.. . .C.G.8.: We will not reprint the story of the
beer-seeking deadbeat. We never, knowingly, reprint any
story...Ool. O’Neel: Initial jump fell shorl. As a literary
leaperyour main defect is heaviness... Fuze : Too vague
and breathless. It took us 8J minutes to grasp the pur-
port of your screed, and the average reader hasn’t that
much time to spend overa fewdozen words E.H. (Q.):
“Freedom’s Song" was turned down after a second
glance. Others rather poor George Saxton: Unsuit-
able. No stamps enclosed for return... .Ajax : German
band verses rejected with aloud “No!”in A flat. (P.S. :
The only time a German band ever played outside The
Bulletin’s front door, the Office Assassin dropped 3cwt.
of Hansard from the r00f)... .H.D.A. (M.L.): “Career”
not skilfully enough handled D.G. (S.A.): It is
awfully pathetic and terribly uneven 8.5.G.8. : Verses
are vigorous and fairly smooth, but not up to print level.
Never write on both sides of the paper Fosco: Unin-
teresting... .Poieo: No, it doesn’t meet with our ap-
proval! It meets with our most hideous curse...
D. 0.: “Bill’s Adventure” is plain ink-squandering
J.J.D. : Paragraphs are seldom acknowledged. Space
won’t admit. There was no intention to heave the brick
of disrespect at you P. Douglas: Nicely written, but
too vague, which is the trouble with most allegories
Corry : The flat (fool)-flat (residence) joke is played out.
Other offenders please notice....P.G.H. : Picture of
tourist insulting villager has been torn asunder and
swept out by wild charwoman. As a draughtsman
you miss the ’bus by about 20 years. ...Swastika : A
“Poverty Point” par with a concluding sentence like
the following shall only crawl in over our corpse : “But
if either the Prince of Wales or the Duke of Cornwall
reigns, they will each have a love from certain persons
who have seen them walking behind the gun-carriage at
their grandfather’s funeral, for a love for royalty con-
ceived in childhood will always remain.”....Utilis : Im-
possible to dogmatise without a knowledge of local
conditions. The words carry totally different meanings.
It may be that, lacking a reserve, your town is going to
burst into fragments, in which case the improvement is
palpably a “ necessity'.” On the other hand, the con-
struction of a reserve may not avert ruin, but only
provide a lounging place for nurse-girls, drunks,
etc. In that event it would be a mere “utility.”....
G. Eden : You write “ The People Shun Me All.” Also :
But Nowhere save in unreal dreams
Have folk ere wanted me.
And again :
They stand apart they stand apart
Likewise :
Oh I must bear a weary part
Iti all the world alone.
In our view, the whole trouble is due to vour poetry.
Give over rhyming, and the world will be friendly and
the birds sing, as of yore... Unknown : Tartan prize for
bulls was unquestionably a deft and kindly compliment
to Scotland Non-reader : Consider one sentence from
your cutting: “The absolute necessity’ of having an
hereditary monarch for the British Empire is as much
above the intellect of the writer of it as the immensity
of the solar system is of the average voter.” The office-
boy' who wrote that deserves to lie sacked for illiteracy
and rotten grammar... .J.M. (Yambulla) : Can only be
adjusted between the Department and the guarantors....
Appins: Paragraphs are not acknowledged in the
“Answers to Correspondents’ ” column. There’s nothing-
in ter sting in yours about the billiard-room and the two
swells.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Tim : There are no points worth mentioning about
your policeman.... A. S. : Drawing might be a good deal
worse, but the idea isn’t new.... E. Walsh : Yes, it was a
dreadful fuss that Genesis made about an apple, but your
picture hardly does justice either to the fuss or to Genesis.
Ploda Long : (1) A poor nude sortof jest. (2) Humor-
less and badly drawn.... Laurie K. : One of .your alleged
bursts of mirth was made b.v Dr. Johnson, the man who
wrote the dictionary, and he died a good while ago...
Cleve H.: Two inferior pictures. One an old joke about
a bad egg. The other, a joke (not identified, but sus-
pected of being old) about a bad fish .. J. 8.: Poor draw-
in gs|based upon strictly non-humorous subjects.. .T.M.H.:
When you send us one of our own pictorial gags pick an
ancient one—one that we may possibly have forgotten.
It is bad policy to use recent ones... Balbus : Try’ draw'-
ing something easy—a stick or a pint of beer or a window
pane or some atmosphere—and w’ork up. You are com-
mencing at the w’rong end. .. Pen : It may not be a copy
from the French, but it has the misfortune to look like one.
....J. E. Miles : The very impertinent small girl isn’tanew
subject... ,L.G. D. : Belated comet pictures are a drug in
the market Tipp : Pictures good only for suggestion.
Suggestion jokes are like oy'sters, and must be fresh and
meat.y. One of yours is stale, and the other a “ banker.”
... Bert R. : The effort with which the joke is dragged
in suggests Samson dragging the gates of Gaza. He was
a mighty' dragger before the Lord J. Cahill: No, we
don’t “ pay for such things.” We pay for quite different
things... .H.C. : Sketch representing legislation, accord-
ing to Marquis of Huckleberry rules (or something of the
sort), has no thrill about it W* Dow'nes : The remark
that your No. I drunk is making to your drunk No. II
has been made, in one form or another, so very often....
MIA.W. : Joke wasn’t good enough to condone the im-
maturity' of the illustration... E, Cotter : Our opinion of
the sketch? With pleasure. It is rotten.


A WOMEN’S PARLIAMENT.'
Last year, as the result of the
energy of a few ladies, a Women’s ;
Parliament was started and had a
successful session. Last evening a
start was made with a second.
Qux Artis'f' few hoewjfeet's of- rfe.
hew Wo*)&.*>
Allhi s*tcr
-for
A\in»s^e>-
for
Horvje
A f/*s>
for
ifye
Jn'terior
A lsc; l^E_
,
for
■^ e fc«te I
| Sh SI/e|>l7erd • Alt! CfcUgtif you flirllmo
tlje eW>lit7p ELvi| you vil/o
pretended "be v/o !
Prefer Murray *«>« "fe is *n rUf7,on '
Cljor«s of Sherds - k»f+ M Veil & styoW «s
"her !
•f; ■'
' w ,|| y v/itr l"» rf* w " ,d
pofalv VIII f-.1l
ift'V „ .
>
Corni^o”
Prcwner Mvirr^ys
friend tfje w«Sp* .5
bWWs
StWbine, fellow prisoner
*lfre Old ajl vfery v/ell, Sonny,
%ixC I7OWC, your nerve
sorT of «>*,«*)£ ? ”
The Westminster Gazette, in com*
menting on the Oxford-Cambridge match,
remarks: “The feats of Le Coutcurand
Collins suggest that there is semelhirig
in the Australasian atmosphere creative
of nerveless proficiency < The achieve*
ments of A. F. Wilding, the lawn tennis
champion, at Wimbledon are further
evidence of the same thing/’
* WbaCTciv*? Ido fo r you time.
K ioo 3riv>o n?e a< six Spoo-fer 'bo/
of Boss. lw**tT -to Sbow*
-$£ wVrte-t&sb here i *>«.
tfiioo rgd bvsSQ*> I *
VICTORIAN HAPPENINGS.


What’s to prevent an
l Australian bishop, say,
I from composing prayers
to be « used ” in football
matches ?
THE EFFICACY OF PRAYER.
It was the prayers of the Methodist
Church (colored brand) that knocked
out Jeffries in 15 rounds.
Sporting Parishioner: “ Well, sir, you
see it’s like this ’ere. I’ve matched 'im
against Simmonses’ brown brindle, an’
as ’e ain’t in the pink o’ condition, I
was a-thinking if you’d reel off a bit
of ‘ Now-1-lay-me ’ over ’im ’e’d
c ’av a better chanst. If prayers ’ll
V win a glove-fight, I says, w’y
\ not a dog-fight?”
Parties financially in-
terested in the Picture
Rights might employ a
“ cullud ” preacher of
extra candle-power to
pray away the present police
taboo on the Johnson-Jeffries
films.
The Cardinal (to his eminent assistant): “ You’re doing splendidly, Dill.
ihe Church has decided to raise your salary. The way you’re tying
the Protestants on to the played-out tory party is the smartest
game we’ve played up to date.”
In view of the diphtheria
epidemic, a leaflet is to be
distributed among school
children. The writer of
the circular, Dr, R* E.
Roth, • discourages the
practice of kissing,
German Student: “And yet, Herr Pro-
fessor, a few weeks ago the Em-
peror certsured students for their
beer-drinking habits. Is that con-
sistent ? ’ •'
It’S pleasant to know that grown-ups are not Included In the
above Interdiction, because—well, because.
Bill Sikes, having wasted most of the
night trying to crack an uncommonly
tough safe, suddenly thinks of Jack
Johnson and the Methodists. He holds
a prayer meeting by himself, and, of
course, the safe door swings wide open.
Moral— Back your religious opinions.
London, Sunday After-
noon The Strasburg Post \
states that several truck-
loads of French champagne
were imported to Germany for
the Imperial household before
the increased duty became opera-
tive on June 30,
Herr Spitznagel (Professor of Ethics):
“Always remember that It was
beer, not champagne, and that the
King can do no wrong; and if I was
you I wouldn’t go skiting about this
.outside.”
MORE OR LESS RELIGIOUS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Have a Dash of
OT
(Trade Mark)
Exfracr of
FruifsiHerba.
Moderate Drinkers take O.T.
v/ith Whisky, Gin end other
Spirits, to moderate the effects
of the Alcohol. Try O.T. with
Schnapps or Gin.
It was Paddy Muldoon’s silver weddin’,
Muldoon, sor, is one of the best —
But ’tis whisky and tears they were shedding,
For Pat had a cold on his chest.
He’d pains in his feet and his throttle,
And ’tis thinner he was than a skewer,
But we saved the spalpeen wid a bottle
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A VITAE DISTINCTION.
Slenderness Witfi Strength and Slender-
ness Without.
Some people who, are inclined to, over-stoutness
are willing, to pay almost any price, to regain slen-
derness, sparing neither purse nor health and
strength. Anything to get thin ! Fasting, killing
physical exercises, medicines ad nauseam —what
does it matter? There is no reason what-
ever for these life-shortening abuses. Food and
proper rest are as necessary to the stout as to the
slim., Here is a recipe which all stout people
would do well to make a note ofOne half-ounce
of Martnola, one ounce of fluid Extract of Glycyr-
rhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine B. P., and
Peppermint Water added to make up six ounces in
all. Dose, two teaspoonfuls after each meal. Many
of the old-world methods of reducing weight that
have, alas 1 survived to this day, rely rather upon
the lowering effects of the absurd food restrictions
and drastip physical exercising they compel the
sufferer to, undergo, than upon any medicinal pro-
perties they may possess. In adopting the above
simple recipe (which any chemist will make up for
you if you wish) you are not restricted in any way.
Wholesome food, good sleep and rest are natural
helps to the treatment; they assist in restoring
muscular power and nerve strength while the
reduction of weight is rapidly being effected.
Slenderness is regained with health, not,without.
It is, in a sort, a rebuilding of the whofe^system.*
On April 26, at an Indoor Rifle Shoot (25 yards
distance) at Goffs Falls, N.H., U.S.A., Mr. J. H. Fitz-
gerald secured the remarkable score of 1243 points out of
a possible 1250. Mr. Fitzgerald was equipped with a
Stevens Ideal Schuetzen Model No. 54 Rifle, fitted with
Stevens Telescope. Such wonderful shooting demon-
strates once more the Bull’s Eye Accuracy of Stevens
Rifles and Stevens Telescopes, and adds another link to
the long chain of Stevens Successes. Descriptive matter
of all Stevens Rifles, Pistols, Shotguns and Tele-
scopes will be sent to any applicant who communicates
with J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co., Chicopee Falls, Mass.,
U.S.A.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
ARTHUR STYAN, Actor. Residing at present
in “ The Third Floor Back."
Ex-Lands Minister Larry O’Loughlin
(S.A.), with seven of his sons, went to reside
on his Pinnaroo farm directly the Peake Ministry
was shot out of office. He took up several thou-
sand acres in that district when it was first
opened by a railway.
“ W.” gives him a send-off
Old Albert Harris, Victorian M.L.A., who died last
week, was an example to politicians who are not am-
bitious but wane to stick do a seat in Parliament. Albert,
a little, dark fellow with long, lank hair and a grizzly
moustache, represented the same Gippsland district for
27 years without -stopping. George Wise (now M. H.R.)
bumped against him in vain. For 10 years Albert had
not even been opposed. He hardly ever spoke in Parlia-
ment, but he never ceased to toddle through the depart-
ments. He got a big railway line for his district, and
road-and-hridge grants fell in golden showers on his
municipalities. He would cheerfully buy groceries
in the township for a rural constituent or
match a ribbon in Melbourne for a bloke’s wife.
Office was not offered to him ; his most glorious emi-
nence was a seat on the Railways Standing Committee.
Albert’s oratory left no deep footprints on Victorian his-
tory, but I recall one of his remarks, made when the Assem-
bly was debating whether it would wipe out Thomas Bent
for the sake of John Weary. Said Albert: “If you ain’t
satisfied that what you’ve got is worse than what you’ll
get, why don’t .you stick to it?” An obscure statement,
but when its meaning is unravelled it looks like Albert’s
life-long political motto.
Norman Lindsay has a half-page drawing
in London Punch for June I—a big street scene,
bustling with ’buses and motors. The over-reduc-
tion and the excess of work gives the thing a
Punch appearance, and it might almost miss
recognition by the artist’s admirers at this end.
“Ruby Lind ” (his sister) is represented by draw-
ings in London Opinion and a fine batch of illus-
trations in the June Woman at Home. She
shapes for a conspicuous place as a magazine
illustrator.
The Weekly Box of Curios, published at
Yokohama(Japan), thus describes The Bulletin’s
old friend, Randolph Bedford (14/5/TO): —
Halley’s comet has had the reputation of being a big
thing, but we ran across an Australian comet this week
that put all others in the shade. It floated in on the
Prinz Waldemar from Sydney, and called itself Randolph
Bedford, claiming to represent a syndicate of Australian
papers, which are sending him on a tour of the world,
and have been so foolhardy as to entrust him with a
letter of credit. He was told not to pay any attention to
small local dailies, but to call only on the Box and
deliver a small bundle of love and esteem from our
Kangaroo contemporaries. Some people might think it
was a compliment to have the exclusive “ scoop ”of hav-
ing him unlbaded on to us —to all such we can say they do
not know Bedford. He landed into our editorial drawing-
room with a kangaroo leap that was startling, and caused
us to exclaim “ What is it ? ” We soon found out. In his
buttonhole he wore a waratah—the national bright red
flower of Australia. Talk! ! —he talked as fast as an aero-
plane flies, and never lost a stroke. Hesailrdby the Korea
and we feel confident that if he is not either gagged or
locked up not a passenger will survive the trip. He is
to write up America, the Jeffries-Johnson fight, the
Coronation of King George, and a few other things, and
if he can write as fast as he can talk, the Syndicate will
have enough “copy” to last for years. We asked him
what he did for a living when at home, and he replied:
“ Nothing—l am a Laborite.” He is not at all pretty
but very stylish, and if the cows do not take him for a
clover patch and eat him up he will create a great sen-
sation in tlie Press Clubs in America. With all his many
faults he is a rattling good fellow, and during his tour
we have arranged to have him misrepresent the Box.
We heartily commend him to the watchful care of the
police in each city he visits. He enjoyed the hospitality
of the Hotel Royal, and if he kept as souvenirs any of
the silver spoons, it has not yet been found out.
Louis Lawrence Smith—he who spoke
these pregnant words: “Young man, don’t you
feel well ?” has passed out in Melbourne, aged 80
years. He was a son of Edward Tyrrell Smith,
who began active life as a policeman and advanced
to be a London sporting publican. E. T. Smith
rose to be lessee of Drury Lane Theatre and Cre-
morne Gardens, London. Under his manage-
ment at Drury, Brooke did an immensely
successful season before leaving for Aus-
tralia. L. L. Smith, son of the above, was a
thoroughly qualified doctor, and the word quack,
so often applied to him, only meant an adver-
tiser. He adopted a peculiar line of practice in
Melbourne, and was a familiar figure as
be rode about on a beautiful white horse
with a long tail. Of course, there were
jokes about Death and the Pale Horse.
Smith’s rival was Thomas. Frisbee, the clever
pictorial placard-engraver, executed a picture of
Thomas’s shop with Smith, on tlie white horse,
riding past it in disgust. Smith made heaps of
money, and disbursed much on numerous second-
rate racehorses which he owned. The only
decent steed he ever possessed was Lady
Manners Sutton. Smith also entered poli-
tics, and became an honorary Minister in the
colorless Government of Bryan O’Loghlen. He
dabbled in a host of speculations, including a
Melbourne daily paper called the Times and
Mines. As a politician, he was of the strenuous
order. He was most in evidence while represent-
South Bourke. Never retired from practice. He
had a terrible sorrow in the loss of his young
daughter Gladys, killed by a fall of earth while
picnicking at Beaconsfield, a place beyond
Dandenong.
Melbourne Argus donned its weeds the
other day and plodded out to the cemetery and
mourned the good men who are gone since
Federation. Of the 50 delegates to the Federal
Conventions of ’97 and ’9B only eight are in the
Commonwealth Parliament to-day—
Deakin, Quick, Simian Fraser, Symon,
Glynn, Forrest, Lyne and Walker.
Somewhere about a dozen are dead.
Four are on the High Court Bench.
One—Reid —is out at dinner. Of the
36 original Senators only 13 remain,
and of them O’Keefe and Cameron
have been “away” for a space. Many
of the others are absolutely forgotten.
The first 75 Representatives make a
steadier stand, yet hut 31 of them stay,
and two of these are swiftly passing.
And how the life wears them out!
Billy Hughes was a youngster when the
Commonwealth was established.
Fisher was almost as boyish. Deakin
was black-haired. So was Lyne. For-
rest could still count the grey hairs.
But they live, and who that has
lived can ever give the game up? As
for those who had to give it up—
would anyone care to bet that big
landowner Manifold was once a Rep?
Or the late Fusionist Skene? Or a man
named Gibb? Yet it was so. Does anyone find
memories awakened by the names of Sawers, F.
E. McLean, Alex. Patterson, Elias Solomon ? Of
Tasmania’s first lot only King O’Malley remains.
Braddon is remembered, if only for his Blot; but
can anyone swear to the other three? Verily,
the flower of the field is as durable as the Pyramids
compared to an Australian politician. Yet there
is this consolation—though the Argus wouldn’t
give it that name: The party that pledges its
members to a fixed platform and sees that they
keep their pledges has lost but few—one or two by
death, one retired, and one or two passed over.
Mostly the electors give them their confidence,
and keep on giving it.
KEEPING IT DARK.
The ill-fated Deak-Cook conference with the Little Premiers was conducted with the greatest secrecy.
At the alleged interviews between N.S.W. Premier Wade and certain Labor membersre the gaoling of Peter
Bowling, Wade declares that he was sworn to secrecy.
Banker Russell-French says that at the recent conference between the bankers and Prime Minister
Fisher an honorable understanding was arrived at not to disclose what took place.
CUSTOMER: "Are those fish fresh?"
FISH VENDOR: “Strika me, madam, I must nota say. I wasa sworn to the secrecy.'
The veteran trades unionist of Australia is
probably J. Wardley, president of the Victorian
Operative Bakers’ Society. The ancient, who is
94, spoke in a deputation of his union before
Premier Weary, the other day, and Weary, who
is fairly young yet, looked much the tireder of the
pair. Wardley, who was one of twins, has 17
children living (the eldest a sprightly boy of 65,
and the youngest a mere infant of 29), and
Heaven knows how many later descendants.
Kinahan’s, the big Dublin (Ireland) whisky
firm which is about to shut down in consequence
of the increased duty and the falling off in the
consumption of blue ruin, has been established in
the Irish metropolis for a century, though not
always in the blue ruin trade. The house on
Carlisle Bridge was originally in the grocery busi-
ness. Then the Kinahans started bottling whisky,
and devised a peculiar blend which took the fancy
of a Lord Lieutenant of the time, and was labelled
hy the firm “LL.” It boomed greatly, and the
Kinahans hitched their keg to a star and soared
into great affluence.
THE MARTYR.
A deputation yesterday waited upon the Minister of
Public Health, and brought under his notice the ob-
noxious state of affairs at the Merri Creek (Vic.).
The mosquitoes that accumulated in the vicinity of
the creek were described by Councillor Coulson to be
“ wonderful.” Mr. P. Rendle also referred to them. His
wife was poisoned last year by bites from mosquitoes,
and at one time he had counted 100 of these insects on
one side of his wife’s face.— Neics Item.
“ Steady, steady, Sarah. Remember the fate of
Merri Creek depends upon your fortitude.”
Says “ Pressman ” :
Presswork isn’t a game where ceremony and a fair deal
are overburdened with attention, but it’s a shade over
the margin to publicly biff an old man as the Telegraph’s
representative in the N.S.W. Assembly press gallery did
Minister for Works Lee last week. As a departmental
head, Lee is alleged to have his points ; but on the floor
of the House he ranks somewhere in line with “ Jinny ”
Hogue and “Joan’’Perry. Which being said, the dead
limit is introduced. Yet Solemn Lee has this virtue—
he doesn’t descend to subterfuge. Wade can sulk and
hint darkly at the wild, ferocious ghosts he will produce
some of these times. Wood can trade in personalities
and b< unce to hide his shortage in political stock.
Waddell can slip through by liberal use of the oil of good
fellowship. Oakes can hold his job open by keeping his
mouth shut. Each can lay to his book as he likes. But
Solemn is a square go. He answers the questions put to
him, he dribbles his bit of speech, and then he yawns in
the face of Providence as a man who doesn’t care a two-
penny trumpet if he loses his job. Therefore it was a
cruel sarcastic blow for the Telegraph’s young gent to
joosen out thusly on July 7 :
“ Mr. Lee defined his departmental policy in one short,
withering sentence.”
“Withering” sounds as if Lee had struck several
people dead, whereas the pathos of it all is that good old
Solemn wouldn’t strike a meat pie dead. I don’t believe
he could even offend it.
“ Blue Bag” writes :
“ Dr. Cullen, 0. J., and a Jury of Four ” is a law notice
which strikes me curiously in the courts. Cullen is the
only LL.D. who has clomb to the N.S.W. Chief Justice-
ship since the Charter of Justice lijdeed, University
distinctions have had little to do with the occupants of
the highest legal positions in JJiSfAV- parley, it is true,
was a Trinity man and B.A. But Forbes knew little of
University life, and Alfred Stephen Was promiscuously
dragged up. He held a subordinate position in the
army, and only turned: to the Bar in a fit of bad temper.
Dowling was a newspaper reporter and general scribbler,
and reached the Bar by overtime work. Salomons
polished up the handle of the Synagogue door, and
peddled secondhand books on' ttie road to his brief spell
as Chief. Martin, was an attorned first and barrister
later, and was wholly innopfent of University degrees.
Of the Acting-0. J.’B., neither-Simpson nor ,Stephen flour-
ished a University ornameht. Stephen, when in his
teens, started to scoop in’salary as associate to fiis father,
and Simpson preferred displaying,hisi fine figure on the
Block to the dry study of deadTangunges,
“Gent. One,” touching the Victorian
Attorney-General:— ,
J. Drysdale Brown isohe of the lucky few \y.ho managed
to stick to money made,’duribg the Melbourne.land boom.
He made some £30,00.0 or mpre. Resigning his manager-
ship of the Colonial B'apk at parltOn, he went to London,
where, after eating tlie cuStohYary dinners' and pultivat-
> ing an English mannah, he was called to the Bar. Re-
, turning to Vic. he held himself o.ut to practice, but
clients were apparently shy, for there are hardly any
records in any of the law reports of Brown ever appear-
ing in a case, and no member of the profession that this
writer is acquainted with remembers to have spen Drys-
dale in his wig and gown. Still, he is said tp have figured
occasionally as aii advocate in a mining easel His main
occupation in Vic. was running a deep, lend show near
Maryborough, jn which he and his English friends lost a
good many thousands. Six years ago the electors of the
'Nelson province, as a kind of acknowledgment of the
fact that Brown had spent among them a large bag
of money, sent him as their representative to the
Vic. House of Landlords. His inclusion in Murray’s
Ministry was a late afterthought. With all his inex-
perience qf, the practical side of the law, he never listens
to, nor indeepl-daqs, he seek, advice. The permanent
staff of the office was frozen into silence at an early stage
of Brown's ctfeef’.®*-"
PORRIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He did not apprehend any dire results from the new
regime, because the Prime Minister (Mr. Fisher) had
been brought up on porridge and the Shorter Cate-
chism, and would not go far wrong.— Senator McCall,
talking to Victorian farmers.
He isn’t a man who was fed on Blood
And the “ qa ira” of Quatre-vingt-treize ;
His hand won’t fall with a sickly thud
To cut your throat and end j-our days.
Not so ; he is only a cautious Scot,
A kindly Bloke, a benignant friend,
Who was swallowing, ere he left his cot,
His oatmeal porridge and Man’s Chief End.
Should his duty call him to face the foe
He’ll sup his meal ere he makes his speech,
And parry the thrust or stop the blow
Wir.h the Principal Things that the Scriptures teach.
But though parritch is hailed as a wholesome dish,
And the words of the Catechist all admire,
Yet, looking at Andrew, one could wish
He had eaten less brose and a bit more fire.
’Tis the prayer unending of folks called Mao
(Who mourn a bittock for guid times gone),
That Labor will follow the same old track,
For Fisher is Scotch, and “ a cautious mon.”
Yet while Andrew brings to M'Ooll relief,
This bard would greet with a joy sincere
Some meaty hero of bone and beef,
Or a Cromwell bred on his own good beer.
VICTORIA.
L.


"m
V
. V: rv. :'!•’.
—-:M
.i'
•'l
*
a
M
Ui.
O
::
ill'
! S
•i •'•:•
i; Mi;
,®
:;:
m, a
W i
Mi
Vr;
a-
iTi
; ••
;r*.
lil
m
in
m
■m
1:9 ii
[(:%.)]
IV
i 4
m
Vi
! !
Vi Vv
; : ;
rn
?' ht
; \ .
«
W
: :.!
:; ‘
; •:
•:;
It,
: ::
IT:
PW
ißjfflSi
IOM- 1
rf
Wd&?r'dS#m {
/
OE
E>
a
o
v>
It
fciTS
O
$
m
2
*
<2
o
Bißiaiiiin
f!
'i=”j
tc 0
*sw
vw
3953
A Wunderlich
Ceilinged Home
Wunderlich Ceilinged Home is a modern home, and judged from the investment point of view is
therefore a thoroughly sound proposition. If circumstances necessitate a sale, those Wunderlich Ceilings
will stand high up in the list of the property’s advantages.
The introduction of the marked a new era in the development of
the modern home, and in the rapidly increasing number of beautiful interiors in Australian homes
you find striking evidence of the success of the Wunderlich treatment.
The fire-proof, germ-proof and dirt-proof qualities are additional arguments in favor of
Wunderlich Ceilings, and the fact that they cannot crack or fall will appeal to all who know the weak
points of plaster ceilings.
The difference in cost between the out-of-date plaster ceiling and the up-to-date Wunderlich
Art Metal fittings is trifling. '
Write to-day for the Wunderlich Catalogue.
Wunderlich Limited,
SYDNEY : 56 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE : 243 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE : King William Street.
BRISBANE : 363=5 Queen Street.
LAUNCESTON : St. John’s Street.
HOBART : Collins Street.
PERTH : Lord Street.


In Spring- a young man’s happy thoughts
To love will lightly turn ;
And inditing odes to Beauty,
Oft the midnight oil he’ll burn ;
But pain and anguish come, alas !
Life’s gladness to obscure —
Ah ! then the true and only love
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
The Old Blend
nipjnquip
wtvisky
$ Horse-
CELLAR.
j marii i mu. »
**o
DIRECT nOM OIRTILLERE.
Eczema Cured.
“ I had eczema on the arms for six years,”
writes Mrs. Waller, 575 Boundary Street, Bris-
bane, Q. “It was so bad, that if rubbed, I would
scream with the pain. I tried both internal and
external remedies without results, until I used
Rexona, which cured me and left my skin so that
a baby might be proud of it.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.
Go on the land, young man, if you want a good
time. For hard work there has become easy. If you
have to plough a thousand acres or so, you just sit on a
steam plough and smoke. Or if it be necessary to up-
root a forest you call in the magic arts of the “ Forest
Devil,” and the trees are disposed of with nothing more
than a little gentle exercise on the part of the joyful set-
tler. That is if he secures the right “Forest Devil
the one being sold all over the Commonwealth bv John
Cooper and Son, of Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. Ii you
write thentthey will send you an illustrated catalogue
'that you will find more delightful reading than anything
save the items of a big bank balance, which the Devil
aforesaid will help you enlarge.*
The colored jubilations over Johnson’s
victory are just further evidence of the mental
childishness of the negro races. It needs the
wisest of whites, inspired to their best hem licence
by D.C.L. whisky, to keep - the colored children
happy and out of mischief. A happy control of
the passions by both black and white is that in-
spired by judicious appeals to the spirit of D.0.1i.
wisdom.* ......
LAME BACK.
This ailment is usually caused by rheumatism
of the muscles, and may be cured by applying
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm two or three times a
day and rubbing the part vigorously at each apph-
cation. If this does not afford relief bind on a
piece of flannel dampened with Chamberlain s
Pain Balm ami relief is sure toffollow.*
CURED HIS
SCIATICA.
This Man got Relict After
Four Months Suffering*
■ T O'
“I was Ailing for about four months off and on
with sciatica,” sa'id Mr, .Arthur E. White, (54
Rosehill Street, Rydfern. “1 got ai chill at ray
work, and it brought on a severe pain in my back,
iust acroSs-the loins. It would ease off during the
day after Thad a little exercise, but p was bad at
■night timp® I coflld jhardly close nrjy eyes. I’d
be twisting and tjurning all wajjs tb try; and get
some reftfef. It Was like a toothache with the
constant nagging, gnawing pain. Thje skin would
be very red and tender. I rubbed I myself with
liniments, but fodnd J them no good;. The pain
extended down the side of my left; leg.and the
back of my thigh. For about an hour after .1 d
getrout of bed I could only lnnp about. It would
start about five each night and last for hours. I d
always be worse when warm in bed. I couldn t
betid my back without’the! pain catching; me like
a knife. The pain oh ly seemed to settle deeper
as tune went on. 'At last, on a friend s advice, 1
tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills; I felt a shade of
ease with the first box, and soil got another, and
then I really began to;feel distinct benefit. My
back began to get supple 1 again. I; could bend
down with less difficulty. I vvas working on the
railway line at Bel more then. By the time I had
finished the third box I was better still. Ihe
pains had lessened so lripch that I could sleep
quite easily. The' darting spasnis of pain down
my leg went away, as did the stiffness on rising.
I took two more boxes and they finally drove
away every sign of the scpttiCa, and .now I m as
supple as.ever.” ; _i.„.
Remember, only the genuine; Dr. Williams
Pink Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into taking
something said to be just as good! Of all; dealers
at 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. por from the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Sydney.*
THIS ELASTIC TRUSS
OCNYER
©
is the acme
of c o m f o r t,
majd e of the
bekt; materials'
and gives the
required pres-
sure \|ithout
the discomfort of spring’s. We
make all kinds of Trusses and
have experienced fitters]
ELASTIC TRUSS —Single, 17/6 ; Double, 22/6.
DENYER BROS., Surgical instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter'St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne. ,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Minister O’Malley stated last week that
the Yassberra site is “not unsuitable” for the
construction of a city. That is at least some-
thing; but what kind of a city—one like Bathurst
or one like Berlin ?
Thus Yankee Scott, from New York, in
Adelaide Register
Would you think it presumptuous if I gave a little
advice? it is only this—Be Australians. Never mind
whether you come from Queensland, from Victoria, or
VVestralia. Link yourselves together by transcontinental
railways. Say the Murray is Australia’s river. Never
mind whether you come from north, south, east or
west—Be Australians.
S. Australian Ministries—and the State
has now got its 49th Cabinet going—have a
great habit of starting in June. This is the
number of new Cabinets for each month up
to date June, 11; October, 7 ; March, 6 ; May,
<>• July, 5; September, 5, August, 3; November,
2; December, 2; January, 1; April, 1; Feb-
ruary, none. On one occasion four successive
S.A. Ministries—those of Colton, Downer, Play-
ford and Cockburn—opened the doors for business
in June.
“Timothy Tufthunter ” ; Would it be
impertinence on my part to ask who footed the
bill for a manifesto which was published broad-
cast in the New South Wales press concerning the
five-and-twenty bob swindle prior to the Federal
election ? It was signed, “C. G. Wade,” or some
such name. I may take it, I suppose, that, as the
manifesto was an electioneering advertisement, the
State didn’t find the money?
“ One nation, one flag,-one postage stamp ”
was among the aspirations of the Federation
campaign days. The nation and the flag have
arrived, and now the Fisher Government promises
the postage stamp next year—a penny one which
is to drag a letter all over Australia. So things
are moving.
Singleton (N.S.W.) proposes to start
municipal gasworks, whereupon S. M. Herald,
in an unguarded moment, remarked :
It is a reproductive and dividend-earning service, and
municipal ownership gives two advantages to the citizen
(I) public lighting is secured at a reduced price; and
(2) .the price of gas to the ordinary consumer is psually
less from the municipal than' from the private supplier.
Already the municipal gas-trading concerns in N.S.W.
have assets amounting to £47,385. Bathurst is the most
successful example of good municipal gas management,
low prices to the consumer and profit to the ratepayer.
Singleton will be in good company as a gas owner.
Thus does Sosh in Our Time come nearer and
nearer, with the Herald, in its somnambulistic
moments, shoving behind.
In the Governor’s speech at the opening
of the Victorian Parliament the only item of new
and enormous import was a proposal for the
appointment of a Royal Commission to inquire
into the tram and train systems of Greater
Melbourne. This is evidently intended to stall
off criticism on Melbourne’s awful transport ser-
vices. The Weary Government wants to hang up
the trouble, and to this end projects a Commission
that will struggle through months of inquiry, and
will end by discovering what the city already
knows. Weary is growing feebler in subterfuge
as he grows more indolent.
The everlasting row about the bill looms
up again. This time it is poor, harmless Car-
michael, of Victoria, who allowed himself to be
entertained by the Gippsland shire of Tambo.
The shire secretary said he agreed with a hotel
licensee for a large spread for a fixed sum. The
licensee, a lady, denied this, and “took” the
council to the County Court, where she got a
compromise verdict. Still she isn’t satisfied, and
at latest she was saying, in a determined tone of
voice, that if the full amount allegedly owing—
£2s 35., including her law costs—doesn’t material-
ise forthwith, she will fire the bill at his sub-
Excellency himself. Now the council is torn with
conflicting emotions, like Meagher in the tram.
One moment it is imploring the lady to do
nothing rash and unladylike ; the next it is
pointing out that she got a fair deal at law and
ought to be satisfied. Also, it pleads that it is an
impecunious council with a low valuation and an
insignificant rate; while the dame retorts that, if it
can’t pay the bill, it shouldn’t entertain the
Governor. It is all very untidy and squabble-
some.
THE ARTISTIC FAT MAN.
No important purchases were made during the year,
the National Art Gallery trustees reserving the greater
part of their purchasing funds with a view to acquiring
large and distinctive examples of the modern British
and foreign schools. — New Item.
The importing craze seems to have spread into
art circles.
Sydney, which in days gone by slung the
present suburb of Ultimo at the clan Harris, had
need recently of a fragmentary corner, and re-
sumed same, It offered the Harrises £5925 for
the little bit resumed, but the clan demanded
£lO,OOO. The Court awarded the Harris people
£7883 2s. 6d. It is easy to throw land to a
Harris in early, casual days; but getting land
back from a Harris is quite a different thing.
An enraged John Forrest contributed to
the gaiety of Parliament last week. The old
gentleman spent a large portion of a speech in
barking at the Ministerial benches. Dr. Maloney
was hotly informed that Mr. Forrest had no
desire to speak to him, and Attorney-General
Hughes was fiercely described as an “ignorant
blusterer.” A little while later the angry old
person fell upon Hughes again, and remarked
with that elegance of speech with which he is so
singularly gifted: “ I defy the hon’rable member
and orl ’is gang!” Probably the passe knight
will continue this kind of defiance during the
remainder of the present session. There are in-
dications that loss of “hoffis” has made him a
bitter creature.
Cunning old J. M. Davies, the Legislative
Council boss who killed the State land-tax in Vic-
toria in 1909, has been made President of the House
of Landlords. Labor owes Davies a debt of grati-
tude. Had he not led the Council along its fatal
Tory path last December, the Labor party would
have lost its land-tax cry (or most of it) in the
April elections this year, and would probably
have been tiierebv two Senators poorer in Vic-
toria.
A TIMELY QUESTION.
A deputation of bankers waited on the Prime Minister
and pointed out the disadvantages of the proposed Gov-
ernment note issue. . . . They were able to prove that so
far as their note issues went, what with the tax of 2 per
cent., the cost of the paper, the duty on the forms, and
the office charges, the banks reaped practically no profit ,
from the circulation. — Daily Payer Items.
Bankers : “ 800-hoo! Fisher wants to take aibay
our notes, and we don't make any profit out
of them. 800-hoo! ”
Australia: “ Don't make anything out of them?
Then what’re you howling for ! ”
“ Demo” : “ Only soldiers ! ” exclaimed
Keir Hardie, after King Edward’s funeral.
Edward the Peacemaker—and cocks’ feathers!
The moral sought to be conveyed is that the
nation only rests on bayonets, and that they are
the panacea for all troubles within as well as with-
out. You would think the promoters, fugle-
men, wire-pullers, whoever they are, wanted to
shake a mailed fist at Asquith. His desire, as
Prime Minister and chief representative of the
British nation, was to ride next to King George,
the Kaiser and the Royal Family ; but somehow
he got ruled out. There was no Cabinet at the
funeral, no members of the House of Commons,
no representatives of the cities of London, Man-
chester, Glasgow, Birmingham, etc. Everything
was sacrificed to provide a mere spectacle. And
the Peacemaker went to his last rest on a gun
carriage !
The crowd which is out of office is
generally solid on the idea that the electoral
system wants revision so as to ensure that “all
classes will be represented in Parliament.” The
idea sounds well, but it is a trifle impracticable.
There are so many classes —Freetraders, horticul-
turists, Presbyterians, football barrackers, biga-
mists, wearers of belltoppers and the like. If it
was possible to divide the whole community into
two sharply defined lots—say people who believe
in a personal devil and people who wear tan boots
—something might be done; but then the com-
munity won’t divide like that. Just at present it
is the Deakin crowd that is doing a huge weep.
It says that the iniquity of the present system is
evidenced by the fact that in N.S.W., Labor only,
at the very best, scored about six votes to
Toryism’s five, yet instead of the Senate seats
being fairly divided, according to these figures
Labor got all of them. Alfred Deakin says this is
manifestly unfair, and the Tory press reckons
that the Labor leaders are bound, as honorable
men, to do something in the matter. The pity is
that the Tories didn’t think of this earlier. In
the days when the figures were the other way
about, and Toryism had grabbed all the six
N.S.W. Senatorial seats, and Alien 'the Fusion
was backed by the votes of no less thsn six
minority representatives—Wynne, Coon, Wilson,
Brown, Salmon and Harper—from Victoria alone,
it had a fine chance to do something in the way of
giving its opponents a better show. And'it did
nothing.
J. D. Fitzgerald, who has secured the
Labor nomination for the N.S.W. State seat of
Darlinghtirst, should shake little Dan Lev} - , the
sitting member, off the Parliamentary mat.
Darlinghurst is stiff with clerks, and a lot of
them have enough sense and self-respect to yearn
for the day when they may state their opinion of
Wade’s treatment of them in the matter of their
demand for a Wages Board.
Johnson, M.H.R., the alligator-sitter, has
a hide as tough as that of the saurian he sat on.
When Speaker Holder of
the Reps, died, the Fused
Government was in power.
The Deakinites wanted Carty
Salmon as Speaker. (Salmon
was a Victorian.) TheCook-
ites wanted Spruce Myth.
(Myth is of N.S.W.) The
party held a caucus to decide.
Each side beat up its men,
but the Deakinites squeezed
in by 17 votes to 15, Johnson
being one of the 15. Ihe uni-
ted (?) party trooped into the
Chamber and cast a solid
block vote for Salmon. When
the House assembled on
July 1. Johnson had the gall
to arise and denounce the very
idea of making the Speakership
a party question. According to
Johnson, the rights of the House
are higher than those of parties, and
the right place to nominate and elect the pea mr
is in the House. Yet, not a year since, 'Johnson
voted in the House for a man whom he had
worked against in caucus, and everyone kne
Ex-Attorney General Homburg, of S.A.,
has christened the Verran Labor Cabinet the
City and Suburban Government, because .1
Verran is the only member who represents a
country constituency. Every member but one 01
the preceding Butler-Peake Ministry (of which
Homburg was a member) resided permanent y
Adelaide, although they sat for provincial elec-
torates. The exception was farmer iascoe
brother of a Sydney pressman, who lives 1
Terowie.
It is interesting to look back now to the
Sydney Telegraph of April 12, and read these
frantic scare-heads :
REMEMBER THE CAPITAL SETTLEMENT.
LABOR IN VICTORIA, WITH WHICH
NEW SOUTH WALES IS INSEPARABLY BOUND,
IS OUT TO DESTROY IT.
VOTE FOR LIBERALISM AND YASS-CAN BERRA.
In the leading article for the same date (the day
before the fateful 13th) appeared the following .
It is well that the electors should keep in nmid that
every vote in favor of a Liberal candidate will be a vote
for placing the Federal capital at Yass-Caiiberra. Everv
vote cast for Labor will assist the combination which is
straining every nerve to deprive N.S.VV. of ns s.
Well, on April 13 the people of Australia voted
overwhelmingly for Labor. Unless the Sydney
TELEGRAPH is an awful liar, that means that they
voted overwhelmingly against Yassberra.
anything being done to give effect to this over-
whelming vote?
THE WRECKLESS WRECKERS: A BROOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
But protest is probably unavailing. The party i md its
supporters will learn only by hard experience.—Nope e.
finish of recent S. M. Herald leader anent Labor srecK-
less inattention to Anti-Sosh advice.
They ivill not, will not listen,
We proved it long ago :
So ive but reminisce, in
This our black hour of woe,
What time our sad eyes glisten
And panic tear-drops flow.
Some years ago they started
Their Socialistic game;
And straight, the lion-hearted
G. Reid, of Freetrade fame,
The dreadful news imparted
In words of fire and flame.
“ Let Freetrade go to blazes,”
He clamored, in effect;
“ Drop Oobden’s busted crazes
And, if you will, protect
Australia”—which wild phrases
Astounded the elect.
“ A new Dread has arisen :
A tiger is aboard
The ship of State. From mizzen
To keelson he has roared,
Adding what isn’t his’n
Unto his lawless hoard.”
The duty of the nation,
Said Reid, if it would flee
From utter ruination
Was to act forcefully.
“Drop senseless hesitation,”
He urged, “ and vote for Me.”
And we, each blessed morning,
The cause of Reid upheld ;
Grim blood-congealing warning
We hissed and likewise yelled,
Now cursing and now scorning,
Now calm, now rage-impelled.
Our foes—we called them robbers,
Wreakers of villainy,
And lunatics ; their cobbers
Of high and low degree
We damned as furtive jobbers
In gory Anarchy.
On rail and street and ferry
Our views were duly read:
They only made folks merry.
The Cause we thought was dead
Proved to be vital —very.
Reid went out on his head.
The Fusion followed after.
We boosted up that crew
Like mad. With praise each rafter
Rang—even Deakin, who
We’d erstwhile spurned with laughter,
We praised till all was blue.
Alas! the Fuse was treated
To insult and disgrace :
’Twas not alone defeated ;
An ingrate populace
Cursed it, in language heated,
And jumped upon its face.
They ivill not, will not listen j
We’ve noticed it before:
So we but reminisce in
Sad accents, and deplore
Their ways, with eyes that glisten
While panic tear-drops pour.
N.S.W.
H. SINGEMOINE.
THE VOICE OF AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the annual meeting of the Australian Women’s
National League, Melbourne, on July 5, the presidents*?
Mrs. F. G. Hughes, said that the result of the election
was not the voice of Australia.
Why did we rejoice?
For it wasn’t the voice
Of Australia—or anything near it
“It gives me the blues,”
Says Mrs. F. Hughes,
“For not one of our members could hear it.
“ The elections I knoiv
Were a sort of a blow
To all right-thinking people who voted.
But that Socialist views
Simply won by a ruse,
Is a fact which I think should be noted.
“ For the only sound choice
And the only true voice
Of the people (and do not forget it),
Is found amongst us,
Though we did miss the ’bus ;
Indeed, in a manner, we met it.
“ We met it, I say ;
And we stood in the wav ;
As we thought it would stop to receive us.
Yet, still we rejoice,
That tve are the voice,
Though results, they may sometimes-deceive us.”
So, though great was the smash,
And loud was the crash ;
Like the fall of a church and its steeple ;
Though the noise was sodpud,
Mrs. Hughes feels quite proud ;
For it wasn’t the voice of the people.
VICTORIA.
FRANK RADCLIFFE.


Business Suits
fov Country ©■Town. Wear.
"II If
M
Best Value
ia
Australia
Write for Patterns
and
Set/ Measurement
Forms.
Cut Style & Finish,o/ High Standard.
BUCKLEYC'NUNN L™
Bqurke St Melbourne.
Beauty’s Favourite.
■: ..m ' /• • *• '
: r ...;f j £ "*‘ *
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged 3 and honoured
im-
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
FERRO VALVELESS Engine
FOR.
Pumps, Dynamos, Cement Mixers, Stone Crushers,
Vacuum Cleaners, Separators, Chaff Cutters,
Lathes, Drilling, Well Boring, Sheep Shearing
and Mining Machines .
Made in 3,4, H, i\, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17 and 25 H.P.
THE PRICES ARE RIGHT. For Fall Particulars write to nearest Agent.
Agents—
VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, TASMANIA—
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—HaII Bros., 51=53 Druitt Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND—Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—W. Sandover & Co., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—Ayers Baker & Co., Fort Street, Auckland.
SAMOA—H. J. Moors, Apia, Samoa.
Agents for AERTEX
CELLULAR UNDERCLOTHING.
Ladies’ Costumes.
We are now receiving by each incoming
mail steamer a select parcel of light-weight
materials for early Spring wear —materials
which may be worn through Spring and
Autumn, and all but the hottest days in
Summer.
We shall be pleased to receive a visit,
and to submit these for inspection, and
customers will have the benefit of our head
cutter —Mr. Murphy’s—experience in ad-
vising as to style, color, etc.
We have lately removed from 80 King
Street to well-lighted premises in Market Street,
next to Farmer’s, and our address now is
DAVID BRAHAM S CO..
Tailors and Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone, Central 1350.
Dining at Sarg'ents*
IS 7
Pleasurable and Satisfying.
-7
nr
ia/r-
-/
m
m
A
55?.
WSK
4238
SARGENTS’ SUPERIOR SERVICE is everything comprehended In
the term “well managed.’’ It is thoughtful of comfort and wishes—attentive,
equable, suave and sincere.
THE MENU is excellent, and on quite an elaborate scale. Every dish, being
wholesome and appetising in itself, is a representative of the choicest edibles
the season affords.
Perfection in every detail makes dining at Sargents’ pleasurable and satisfying.
Moderate Tariff.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
MELBOURNE: 28-52 Elizabeth St. < ph ° ne > city i344 >
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering, 4250).


i
H
pv
1818.
tstekb
At last people are beginning to realise the
folly of dyeing prematurely grey hairs. It is
always detectable, and may lead to scalp troubles
of a very disastrous nature.
Every day one hears of the great successes of
the Hygeia Individual Treatment.
One patient writes during its course
“My hair continued to change color gradually
and is getting darker and darker—that Is, the
grey hairs. There is not a scrap of irritation, and
the new .growth is growing very quickly, is very strong,
and is all the proper color. lam extremely satisfied,
and wish you the success you deserve.—With kind
regards, yours sincerely, J.W.C., Wellington, N.Z.”
The President may be consulted, free of charge, any day
but Saturday, between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
between 6 and 7. Those who cannot call may write to
the President, Dept. 8., Hygeia Limited, Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney, enclosing 3d. stamps to coyer
postage, and they will receive booklet and testimonials
without delay.*
The drawbacks of a chemists’
profession are the long hours,
and having to listen all day long
to other peoples’ aches and pains
—and no matter how dog tired
we may get we cannot take a
glass of anything, having always
to keep a clear brain.
Perhaps, after all, it’s a good
thing for us that we’ve te be so
very careful, because it makes us
turn to tea, and tea’s as good a
thing as anybody can drink —
of course, when 1 say tea, 1
mean pure tea, and presume
that it’s not overdrawn in the
making—now, as nice a cup of
tea as anybody need ask for is
Robur No. 1 Grade don’t
stew it— let it draw just “five
minutes ” —no longer—that’s the
secret of a good cup of tea
you’ll remember that, won’t
you ?
The Chemist.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
187 5, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 12, 1910.
My Dear Arini,—
At the Patriotic Club in Moore-street some
changes have been brewing. They have now
ceised fermenting, and are settled. Mrs. Youl,
who hustles for the ill-fated Wade cause at North
Sydney, is now lion. sec. of the Club. It is a dis-
tinct body from the League (with several ex-
planatory adjectives prefixed) from which the
Club sprang. Miss Macarthur Onslow, sister of
the battle-scarred warrior of Waverley, is presi-
dent of the Patriotic Club. Her friends are glad
to see Miss Onslow looking so very fit again after
a rather prolonged spi.il of ill-health. Mrs.
Macarthur Onslow and her daughter are going
for a trip to the other side of this planet next
month. The new hon. treasurer is Mrs. Bacon.
Since the separation, the much-qualified League
has been mothered by Mrs. Moseley, who lives at
Neutral Bay and takes her pleasure in politics.
The visiting suffragettes were welcomed by
Miss Golding and the Women’s Progressive Asso-
ciation on Friday night. Muriel Matters spoke,
and apologised for Miss Tillard, who didn’t. She
said that in conversational matters that lady was
retiring, like her name, which is Violet, and was
a doer of militant things, and not a talker.
The room was pretty full of women; also,
there xvere 14 men, and all of them were very
civil to the suffragettes. Mr. Holman talked
politics, and was snubbed by the business-like
Miss Golding, who said that herevening party was
non-party in a Parliamentary sense. The guest
of honor thus got a chance to declare that the
women in her movement didn’t mean to fall
in line behind male voters. They are going
to infuse anew spirit into politics, if they can—
“the feminine principle.” After that, it was
really courageous of a young man to get up and
sing “Come into the Garden, Maud.” Another
man, to emphasise the “ Who’safraid !” attitude,
obliged with another loving lay. A girl played a,
violin solo. Tea and talk filled in the evening.
Talking of suffragettes, I heard an excellent
phonograph record recently of Mrs. Pankhurst
speaking at a public meeting in aid of the Cause.
It gave the interruptions and all, complete.
Muriel Matters says that at their cackles in
London, the suffragettes are asked by the
questioning triflers : “Carn’t yer get a ’usband,
Miss ? ” and “ ’Oo ’urt yer ? ” These sympathetic
queries are not given by the Pankhurst record,
but her meeting unrolls very noisily from the
’graph. Her platform voice reminds one of the
dulcet tones of our Mrs. Jenkins.
Among the At Homes of yesterweek, one given
by Mrs. Walker and her daughter, Miss Jean
Walker, of Folkestone, Lavender Bay, was nice
enough to attract Dolores and her two friends,
Zelie Vandour and J. Prouse. Folkestone is the
house at the head of the bay—the one with a
telescope in the front balcony and a dwindling
bevy of daughters. Some of the daughters who
have dwindled into matrimony were at the party,
and helped to shake hands with all the guests,
who totted up to a goodly number. Mrs. Walker
woe black crepe de Chine trimmed with Chan-
tilly, as every mother should. Miss Walker, who
was in a Limerick lace gown, sang some pretty
little songs. Miss Gertrude Palmer gave some
piano selections. Dolores, still faithful to black,
kept on her long cloak. After her concert season
the singer is resting in Sydney for a short day or
two.
Lady Chelmsford chaired the meeting of the
Health Society on Monday afternoon. Said
society wedged itself uncomfortably into a Town
Hall roomlet which would have been a tight fit as
a cloak cupboard. Afer a spell of gasping, some
air was admitted via the windows. The chairlady
said she hoped no reporter would cruelly state
what kind of a room he found the
Health Society in. But it is the mis-
fortune of having only the Town Hall to meet
in that causes the trouble. All the arrangements
for women at the Town Hall are miles behind
the times. The cloak room arrangements at a big
ball are quite a by-word. The Mayoress’s rooms
are merely corridors disguised. Mrs. Councillor
Barton, from Glasgow, talked to the society about
the good work her council does in that city,
which is supposed to possess a model muni-
cipality. Mrs. Barton is a “sonsie body,” wdio
talks hospitals and waste paper and tram-tickets
from a parish councillor’s point of view.
The Hospice Ball did as w'ell as could be ex-
pected last Wednesday evening. The i-esult w'as
satisfying, and the gallery liked the attractions
provided. Mrs. J. C. Williamson’s absence made
a blank. She is always a good friend to the Hos-
pice, which is under the auspices of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, but quite unsectarian in its noble work
of caring for the dying. The Mayoress, Mrs.
Bolser, Mesdames Deery, Muller, G. L. Good-
man, F. W. Langton, Barlow, Leahy, Kearney
and J. F. Hayes were the brigade of workers. The
dancers were numerous. Four girls made their
bows to the society of grown-ups—they were
Misses Forster, Blakeney, Roberts and Shaw.
Asa striking innovation, they all wore white ; by
way of breaking up the samey style of debutantes’
behavior, each carried a white bunch of flowers.
The most beautiful gown in the room was worn
by an American, Mrs. Parsons. It was a sym-
phony in maize and Wedgewood blue, and
showed the blue from the knee to the hem.
The upper part was maize satin veiled
in exquisite lace. Mrs. J. Macken was
resplendent in Tosca net embossed with gold
silk over gold satin. Fancy dress was worn
by the minuetters who danced as a gallery
play. The “gate” was increased by a gift of
£IOO from that generous person, “Anonymous.”
He is some relation to “A Voice,” who asks
questions at public meetings. Other members of
the family are “ Pro Bono Publico’’and “Con-
stant Reader.”
The long nights of the first week in July were
danced through with much vigor. On one even-
ing there were three big dances, and some fes-
tivity or other was on each night of the dancing
week. The shipping companies gave their yearly
party on Wednesday, in Paddington Town Hall,
on the same night as the Hospice Ball. Nothing
better than flags has ever been discovered for hall
decorating purposes, and this yearly re-union is
always brightened by the house-flags of the various
firms represented among the merrymakers. On
this occasion the Houlder banner hung highest, as
a compliment to President E. J. Lamb, who
was present with Mrs. Lamb. Hon. Secre-
tary Sheehan knows the ropes thoroughly by
now, as he has worked up several of these friendly
meetings, and he was in his element on Wednes-
day night. The ball was a great success in a
breezy, nautical kind of way. Merivale, Gordon
Wesche, Lethbridge, Green, F. J. Thomas, Jack-
son, Desjardins and other names that figure largely
in Sussex-street and at Exchange corner were
“ among those present.”
A cheery dance, for young people chiefly, was
that given by Mrs. Ralph Verney on Thursday
evening. At this frivol were seen some of the new
spring frocks. For dancing they are, of course,
short. The point is that they are in the compara-
tive degree of shortness. Shot “ effects” (as the
sales-ladies love to say) are seen in the new gowns;
Ninon holds its own as the ball gown material.
No other need apply for a job unless when ninon
is tabu on account of its pricefulness. Flounces
that don’t flounce, headed by knee-straps of glit-
tering trimming that doesn’t glitter under its
discreet veiling, beautify the tight skirts that are
in reality very roomy. Bodices that, at first
blush (a very vivid one), reveal too much, are
seen, on closer inspection, to be Puritanical in
their prudish concealment of charms. That is the
present fashion. If it’s paradoxical, it’s not my
ault.
Miss Edith Hughes, eldest daughter of the
Federal Attorney-General, was married to Mr.
Bourke, an artist, last week. The wedding
occurred on the lawn of the Gore Hill house which
the Conservative press recently chided Mr.
Hughes for having the audacity to possess.
Representatives of two old Australian families
were joined in matrimony at Holy Trinity Church,
Dubbo, by Rev. E. H. Lea. These were Cyril,
eldest son of the late W. A. Hungerford, of Far-
ley, near Maitland, and Irene, only daughter of
R. G. Dulhuntv, of Dubbo. Captain Hunger-
ford, of the South Cork Militia, came to
Sydney in 1828 and settled at Maitland, on a spot
he named Farley, after his old residence in Eng-,
land. The Dulhunty clan sat down hard about
Penrith in the same decade. The original Dr.
Dulhunty got grants of land across the moun-
tains and “here, there and everywhere else.”
The Dulhuntys, the Gibbeses, the Jamisons
(Regentville), the Soanes (Dubbo) and the Hun-
gerfords are all “connected ” by marriage.
One of the most elevated of Sydney’s frock-
builders is busy with the wedding outfit of pretty
Vera Le Patourel. The wedding will occur early
in August. Many will be bidden and many more
will be interested in the happy event, for the
bride-elect has multitudes of friends and the,
bridegroom-t O-be is extremely well-liked.
From S. M. Herald (9/7/T0)
BOOTH.—June 23, at Park-road, Hurstville, to Mr.
and Mrs. Herbert Booth—a son (Norman Lindsay).
And yet the lad will probably grow up to be a
banker, or indent merchant, or other innocuous
ratepayer.
A big Spring Show is the sensation of the week
in the land where fashion lives. Hats and gowns
of summery texture and tint are a relief to the
eye that is tired with too much velvet toque and
tailor-made. Foulards, ninons_and muslins are
all displayed to the favored few who receive in-
vitations to gaze,at coming glories. Every gown
is a one-piece frock. Every hat is huge. Expen-
sive trimming with a big fish-net mesh, patterned
with ribbon and head work, is for those gowns
which look simple but spell disaster when
attempted by the unskilful. Toby frills of pleated
muslin or silk go round the necks. There are no
high collars unless the neck positively must be
covered. Princesse robes, tucked vertically at
the waist, are the right thing—very plain and
skimpy coats of silk and linen Worn with a skirt
so narrow that it looks like one trouser of a blue-
jacket’s uniform. Gold braid arabesques all
over the coat, or big buttons stud it at regular
intervals. White lawns and muslins and batistes
are very much to the fore. These are the
most prominent features of this week’s shows.
Blues are graphite and Bleriot, and other shades
are biscuit, champagne and lettuce.
It sounds like thedescription of a light luncheon.
To make a hat of to-morrow, obtain a hanging
fern-basket with a wide brim, stand it upside
down and sow your oats —wild or tame—in it.
When the rustly grain springs up through the
wires, cover the brim with tulle or chiffon, and
the hat is ready. But the basket must be very
large. Big blue daisies grow on another hat of
that kind, in a mass of blue oats. I never saw
either blue daisies or blue oats, but that’s a
detail. All the dresses are flimsy and dia-
phonous. Some have a sub-skirt of charmeuse
or merv. as far as the knee, where a big knee-
strap makes all taut. No shoulder seams
are visible. Black is seen in transparent canvas
voile over white. The “ Magyar ” blouse is the
ruling form for bodices. As little sewing na
possible must appear on the surface. The Holy
Coat of Treves would supply an up-to-date fashion
plate. Tunics are glittersome and beady, even
on day frocks. Colors, so far, are subdued ; but I
believe we’re to have shrieking tones later on.
A man who signs himself “The Snake” sends
me a word or two of reproach
The increasing size of Women’s Hats is fast malting for
Universal Trouble. To-day, it is almost impossible for a
man to Control his Feelings at any public place where the
sexes mingle, owing to the fact that, whether he stands
or sits, all that is transpiring is hidden from him by the
Huge, Grotesque Headgear of Women. Men have been
driven from the Church, and are fast deserting the
Theatre (where the modes of dressing the female hair are
as Curse-productive as the Hat); and, as the Eternal
Huntress moves after her quarry, the enclosures
round the arenas of the Athlete are threatened with
an exodus of the Tantalised Wretch whose line of
vision is being closed in every direction by cloth-covered
Cartwheels, or Buckets or Wash-basins decked as by the
hand of a Demented Savage with imitation Cabbages
and other Voluptuous Vegetation. At the big football
matches in Sydney this season sign 6 of the coming
mutiny are in plenty. On one occasion, in the big
Suttor stand on the Agricultural Ground, two women,
whose Hats Blocked the Outlook of a double row of
people, were pelted from their places with Oranges,
Apples, Stones, Pieces of Earth and Howls of Execration.
Justifiable insults are openly uttered by staid men
Driven to Desperation. More and more the nerves of
Man are fraying under the struggle to restrain himself
from publicly assaulting the Wearer of the Hat; more
spirits are being consumed ; matters of Stat e are discussed
with anger and violence instead of a clear mind; the
leaders of nations Rasp at each other and Howl across
the seas—all because the Rage burning within them
against the Diabolical Hat must find an Outlet. It is no
use appealing to Woman —the Man who appeals to a
woman loses his case thereby—and it is difficult to know
what to do in decency. There is one thing that might be
done ; but, then, no Gentleman would care to do it.
The matrimonial catches of Darling Point are
the two Hordern boys. In appearance they are
tall and beauty-actorish. Anthony, aged 21, has
not less than £50,000 a year. Lebbeus will have a
similar income in two years’ time. Meanwhile,
his money is accumulating. Only last week his
trustees paid another £38,000 into the bank for
him. Samuel, the eldest brother, shares equally,
and gets £SOOO per annum salary for managing
the business.
An article on the cost of li vi ng in the “Woman’s
Page” of the S. M. Herald, in which the writer
took the view that one shouldn’t dwell in a
fashionable suburb if one couldn’t afford it, and
alleged that there are places just as pretty
as Darling Point, anyhow, has led Melbourne
Punch into the fray with a definition of the limits
outside of which it is impossible to live in Sydney
and be in Society. These boundaries run from
Potts Point to Rose Bay, taking in Woollahra and
Edgecliff. Outside that there is wailing and gnash-
ing of teeth in the empty void of social nothingness.
Yet only a few miles away there are some expen-
si ve-lookingmansiops in Strathfield and Bnrwood;
also, what is the matter with Wahroonga and
Mosman ? Turramurra folk would be wild if they
were told they were not in the swim ; and how is
it for Hunter’s Hill, if you’re looking for a rest-
fully high-toned locality? The fact is, Sydney has
grown too big for itself. The old-timers chose
Potts Point and district as their West End, but
other kings have arisen who know nyt Joseph,
and consequently society spread. . There are
three swell districts now. They are Wahroonga,
Strathfield and Darling Point —all the parts as
one goeth to Edgediff-road. The last named is
still first favorite with the high-fliers, but any
stranger .who imagines it theone and only place to
live in around our city makes a big mistake.
In connection with the boot trade case, the
Melbourne Bar and its feminine belongings fairly
invaded our city. All the big guns were over, in-
cluding Irvine, who didn’t bring Mrs. Irvine.
But with Mitchell, K.G., were his wife arid two
pretty daughters. Gavan Duffy brought Mrs.
and Miss and a niece. Miss Curtain. Mr. and
Mrs. Hayden Starke, Messrs. M’Arthur, Arthur,
Stewart,” Gregory and Durham made up the
brigade. They "left on Sunday night for the
southern city, after a round of festivities, includ-
ing Paris House dinners, theatre parties and
launch picnics, which were greatly enjoyed by
everybody in the boot case (except the litigants).
A correspondent sends this bright idea concern-
ing bush-nursing :
What I think is this : That on every station and estate
employing a large number of men, a properly-qualified
nurse should be employed, so that at any moment she
would be at hand. The nurse might have other nominal
duties, but her first duty would be that of a nurse in
case of an em rgency. And in the bush these occur.
Such an official would be useful. She might ride
into the township if the men were staying too
long at the pub, and send in the landlady to tell
Bill and Jim they must go home at once as their
nurse was waiting for them. She could darn all
the rouseabouts’ socks and swap high society
yarns with the new jackeroo in spare times.
There are points about the station nurse.
Chinese laundries are increasing in number so
much in Liverpool, and also in London, that
there is already great growling about the Celestial
washermen and the way they cut into the business
of the English laundrv-women. “We’ll have
plenty soon,”isthepessimisticopinion of the trade.
The first laundries were started only a few years
ago, it seems, and by little and little the insidious
yellow men crept in. Wherever the servant
problem arises, the Chinaman is at hand to fill a
long-felt want in his own Oriental way. Doesn’t
it show how wide-awake China is ?
Julius Knight farewelled this city on Wednes-
day evening, and his light was put out as abruptly
as if he bad been suddenly turned off at the
meter. His “positively last appearance in
Sydney ” came as a surprse. Perhaps the new
arrangement of the J. C. Williamson business
had something to do with the decision which
brought “Henry of Navarre” to a timely end.
Some of the most devoted admirers of Julius
assembled to give him thesorrowful paw-concussion
of good-bye. His parting words were not unduly
numerous, but “ Auld Lang Syne” by the
orchestra filled in the blank. Miss Katherine
Gre.y was affirmed by the departing mummer to be
one of the best in leading rdles, and he gallantly
handed ovpr to her a huge horseshoe trimmed with
blossoms. Many knicknacks found their way to
the dressing-room of Julius after the performance,
in a “ wheh-this-you-see-remember-me” spirit, the
best of the souvenirs being a fine walking-stick,
with the prutcli part of tortoiseshell and silver
fixings. Men are sometimes able to say they get
presents that are not sliaving-mugs nor cigar-
cases. The whole co. went off next day to the
west of this Commonwealth.
Wanda Radford, the musically talented young
Australian, had a farewell concert at the bteui-
way Hall, London, last month. Then she packed
up her encouraging press criticisms and departed
for the Paris Conservatorium, where the final
course of study will be entered upon.
Over in Maoriland they have lately been
digging up genius in great style. At Christ-
church they have discovered three marvellous
youngsters, by name Ellwood, who, although only
16, 15 and 11 years of age, play the violin, piano
and ’cello respectively in such a wonderful man-
ner that they are expected to stagger the uni-
verse. They have had little tuition, and George,
the youngest, who is the genius of the bunch,
has had absolutely none, and yet he plays
on the ’cello with wonderful ease. He is only
a tiny mite, but he has taken Maoriland by
storm. The hat has been rushed round amongst the
wealthy, and the three youngsters are to be torn
from their doting parents and hustled over to
Germany or Russia or some other foreign part,
so that they can benefit by the best teaching the
planet has to offer.
“Pygmalion and Galatea” was followed by a
gift distribution on the part of the Countess.
Galatea received some jewellery, and so did E.
Major. Even the press agent was not forgotten ;
he received an autograph letter of thanks. The
record matinee was worked from Federal Govern-
ment House ; and was thereby made successful
from society’s standpoint. Vice-regals are not
much of a draw on command nights. They do
not put £10 extra into the house. Theatre people
say that Governor Hopetoun was the only excep-
tion. The people followed him. When it was
announced that he would visit the theatre a good
house was expected, and it usually came up to
expectations.
Mrs. Jim Jeffries is no sport. In the strange
ways of prize-fighting, it is always part of the
game that the champion, or would-be champion
boxer, should have a showy missus. She is in vari-
ably a big advt. for the pugilist and her sayings,
doings, dressings and comings and goings are
regularly written up. All the boxing consorts
we’ve seen in Sydney have been quite up to
sample. Mrs. “Tahmmy” was most elegant to
behold ; and, to her credit be it said, she and
Tommy took the licking received by Thomas like
sports. They drove about this city the
next day with no trice of weepfulness. On the
other hand, Mr. and Mrs. Jim 'publicly bewail
their hard luck, while the reporters sit in readi-
ness with jugs to catch their tears, and the whole
world knows how many the couple have shed.
Britishers think such open-mindedness the mark
of a rank outsider. Americans are not like other
Anglo-Saxons— such of them as are Anglo-
Saxons—because they are not reticent. They
are also given to tall talk, which conies out
oddly in the cables sometimes. All this soggy
weeping which dampens our morning’s paper is
really the most nauseating part of the boxing
business. And why drag in Mrs. Jeffries?
Yours, as of old,
CLEO.


N
/
'J
&
«
i %
iU
W
S’S
eoß^
tr < v i
■\.l'
I
WA'ib
m
s'#
m
n
£*»
§>
u
l- ft
IS
*
•*a?.
s>» «K
&*£&**.
/•s>'
ft-'
WK
itfWi
V
5^
C-O-B-R-A Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo i
Of Akim Foo,
With his Cobras
Driving thro’,
Wrings admiring
Shrieks from all :
“ Here he comes
From»Old Bengal 1
Chunder Loo !
For Blackand Tan
Very polished
Sort of Man 1
4
All the other
Sorts he loses !
Cobra is THE
Stuff for Shoeses !


HOW TO DESTROY THE
DANDRUFF GERM.
By A Specialist.
That the dandruff germ is responsible for nearly
all the diseases to which the scalp is heir, as well
as for baldness and premature grey hair, is a well-
known fact; but when we realise that it is also
indirectly responsible for many of the worst cases
of catarrh and consumption, we appreciate the
importance of any agent that will destroy its
power. We are, therefore, particularly pleased to
give herewith the prescription which an eminent
scientist and specialist states he has found, after
repeated tests, to completely destroy the dandruff
germ in from one to three applications. This
prescription can be made up at home, or any
chemist will put it up for you 3 ounces Bay
Rum, 1 ounce Lavona de Composee, \ dram
Menthol Crystals. Mix thoroughly, and after
standing half an hour it is ready for use. Apply
night and morning, rubbing into the scialp with
finger-tips. If you wish it perfumed, add half
teaspoonful of French Fon Fleur perfume, which
unites perfectly with the other ingredients. This
preparation is not a dye, but is unequalled for pro-
moting a growth of new hair, and for restoring
grey hair to its original color.
CAUTION.—Do not apply where hair is not desired, and
he sure to avoid tonics containing poisonous wood alcohol.
“SORELLE.”
'’HHE MISSES CLAPP are at Greenknowe
Avenue (second house), off Macleay
Street, Potts Point, for Two Weeks, and will
show their New Spring Models and Materials.
4?
H
1
.n
TO
ROAD
RACING
CYCUSTS
The Nev/Speed”
DUNLOP
ROAD RACING
•TYRE •
Is the finest yet seen on
jhkljh
Our Roads.
It will be the
Sensation of
the Road
Racing
Season
Dunlop
Rubber Co.
Pic! bourne
Sydney.
Adelaide. Perth.
Brisbane.
iChristchurchtlt
Send for
a Section of
this speedy
Non-Slipping
. Cover.
Posted gratis
on receipt
of your Name
& Address.
Jf/.
o
I i.
The
Best
Wearing
Rubber Heel
Made.
THE-
DUNLOP
POLICEHKL
will appeal to the man who wants
the best. These Heels are extra
thick and of the finest quality,
ensuring great wear and comfort.
They cost a little more, but they
are well worth it. Ask for Dunlop
“ Police Heels ” and see that
they are so branded, ah Boot shop*.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All State* and N.Z
kljhkl
hĵhkljh
l
Medical & Toilet. Black & Green racket r«?
MISS EMLDA SPONG and SOLYPTOL SOAP.
Miss Hilda Spong, the beautiful and accomplished actress, who commenced her stage career in Australia,
sends the following unsolicited testimonial to the manufacturers of SOLYPTOL SOAP:—
Messrs. F. H. FAULDING & CO. Savoy Hotel, London, W.C., July 31, 1909.
Dear Sirs, —Your Solyptol Soap was recently brought under lr.y notice, and you may be interested to know that.
I have found it absolutely the best skin soap I have ever used. It lathers most freely in the hard London water
its perfume is delightfully refreshing, and it leaves the skin soft and velvety in a manner unobtainable with
anv other soap. It is particularly gratifying to me to know that Australia is the home of such a perfect
production. Yours faithfully, i • • - HILDA SPONG. 1
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 11, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The bang of the opening of the Australian Par-
liament had hardly died away when there was
another crash. It was the opening of the State
Legislature. The opening has always been a
ceremony favored of women, but this session their
rush was furious. They came early to sit and
wait, as if a favorite theatrical star was giving
a matinee. Some got even early enough to jump
the seats of the superior pale-pink-carded persons,
and were judiciously shooed out by the officials
later on. The Pinks also arrived early, and dis-
posed themselves in the body of the council cham-
ber. Mrs. Carmichael looked sonsie in anew hat,
and the plump little niece showed a most viewable
neck above a Puritan turned-down collar. The
new neckless fashion of gowns is a curse and a
worry to the young-old srnart-frocker ; the neck
will tell. The Carmichael niece also had a
round Puritan hat with a sweet tucker of lace
inside. The Governor came half an hour late.
He telephoned in advance that his collar-stud
had rolled behind the chest of drawers and that
a black tracker was looking for it, or words to
that effect. I fancy the Premier sent along his
own stud by special messenger, and fixed his
collar with a paper fastener. Commander Tickell,
who is usually of intense gold-laced importance at
this show, has just arrived in Fogland on business
for our navy. He will have charge of the Aus-
tralian torpedo-boat destroyers, Parramatta and
Yarra, on their way out. So his absence was of
considerably more value than doing gilt-poker
duty round the ceremonious Governor man.
Ex-President Henry Wrixon was missed, and
Mrs. Wrixon, who has hostessed so many
opening-ceremony parties, left a big gap by
her absence. Mrs. Premier Murray received
in a quite informal way in the large room of
the tea party, and Mrs. Frank Madden helped.
Then the Carmichael lady and Mrs. A.-D.-C.
Bogle came along and said “How-do?” all
round. The thing was kept judiciously to
informal lines, so as not to bump that most
frigid thing—Court Etiquette. Mrs. Mayoral
Burston had seal trappings to her clothes.
“Jack” Thompson, of the Western district,
proudly brought hisnew wife. Her black garb made
a Frenchily smart note even among the sombre
dressing. Mrs. Geoff Syme and Miss Garnett
duetted in white cloth and ermine. It was quite
a bright tea party—pretty well free from stodge
and remarkably full of appetite. I vnsk the
House would open at a decent hour. It is two
o’clock when the stiff Master of the Green Door
or something announces that “His Excellency
approaches the Council Chamber” ; but anyone
who wants a seat has to be there a very long time
before. Consequently the previous meal is that
unsatisfying thing, “brunch”—part breakfast
and part lunch. But for the sustenance of the
tea party, fainting forms would bestrewn over the
premises like leaves at Vallombrosa.
The graceful Florrie Green is now entitled to
call herself dancing mistress by appointment to
the Governor-General’s children, for she has been
officially commissioned to train the young
Dudleys in the way they should kick. ’ Miss
Green has more than her art to recommend her.
Her young pupils are her sworn admirers. If
they don’t always revel in their task they have
always a fondness for the taskmistress.
The Gallery Students have given a masquerade
ball. TheV.A.S. —the grown-up artists’ society
—looked down with a scornful air on this frivol of
the minors. This is the third frisk of the juniors,
and they deserve credit for their courage in break-
ing away from conventional lines. The backbone
of the fancy dressing is not left too much to un-
original brains. Each year there has been a
pageant of 100 or more students—all dressed to
represent a period. They struggle with old
records and pictures to get the correct garb.
This year the procession was of the Incas.
Ten o’clock was unmasking time, and then the
lights were lowered for the Pageant. Laurie
Taylor, a beauteous student, with a magnificent
tablecloth hanging from his shoulders (and
some body-garb as well) was King. He w-as
enthroned with his Queen, and the sun of the
Incas blazed behind them. The common or
garden Incas then proceshed, carrying torches,
and prostrated themselves before the throne—
incidentally. A pretty girl clashed cymbals, and
a high priest chanted a weird incantation. The
incantor had a Voice. The effect was fine,
though the Inca language got a push in the eye.
Jimmy, or whoever the Voice was, “made
it up as he went along,” to quote a fellow-
student—just mouthed notes that sounded
excellent Inca. The Dragon who'belonged-to.the
Middle Ages of last year’s frivol, came out on the
platform to watch—just a dead-anebgone spirit of
a spectator. Probably he was an anachronism or
some such animal, but in the subdued light he
was impressive. (I have just discovered that the
Incas should be called the “Peruvians of the
pre-Pizarro period.” With that interruption I
jump to the Present.) The masquerade was in
the new Turn Verein.
This new Turn Verein has developed into a de-
lightful man-and-woman Club, where members
meet and discuss lager and sauerkraut under the
trees, with an able-bodied brass band smashing
the dusk. Alternate weeks the band produces
German and English programmes. The Club has
a fine library—half German and half English.
The Turn Verein people, who were routed out of
their old quarters by the spread of public build-
ings, bought this old house and garden in
Victoria Parade, at the flank of the city, and re-
modelled it most successfully. These Continental
al fresco methods should be commoner in this
open-air country, where the conditions are more
favorable than on the European Continent itself.
The dancing students found the garden useful.
They dotted the tiees about with Peter Pan lights
—rather too many lights in the branches for the
taste of some masked couples, and they crept into
the snug darkness of several motor-cars. Motor-
cars seem an anomaly at an art-students’ ball;
but the masks hid some non-art visitors.
The students nearly all manufactured their own
dresses—the design and the cut showed some
budding Paquins and Worths among our youth.
The effect was a howling success. One girl, who
was belle of the frivol—who was, in more modern
parlance, “The One”—made her dress out of
papa’s white silk pyjamas covered with silver net.
She is tall and dark and slender, and George Ade’s
“ Slim Princess of Turkey ” was her objective.
The bags were gathered in at the ankles, and she
thrust bare feet into Turkish slippers. She used
a yashmak instead of a mask, and showed gleam-
ing black eyes (her own) above it. White and
silver was the whole scheme. A pretty
Sydney matron, visiting here, passed for a 15-
year-old in a short Pierrette dress. There were
plenty of Pierrettes and Pierrots, but she routed
them all. A real live Pierrette from St. Kilda
sands disguised herself as a warlike vivandiere.
Another slump in duplicates were the Peter
Doodys. Arcadian Peter Doody was done to a
finish.
Wirth had a Cliantecler Carnival. Roller-
skating is having a roaring vogue, and Wirth—
who skates with the best himself —is always
splashing out into a special show, and giving a
case full of silver prizes to urge the skaters to
special efforts. Girls were there with Chantecler
hats, but not in the crowds one would expect.
The prize hat winner had her chook made out of
silver foil twisted into feathers. Wirth has two
experts out from Yankeeland teaching him the
latest glides. They roll back again in a week.
The P’ran mayoral hop occurred last week, and
was a successful, but somewhat subdued, affair.
A certain solemnity hung over everything—the
solemnity of that Court Mourning which makes
so much trouble these days. White, black and
mauve were the prevailing tones, and these
chanted their notes of melancholy to the derision
of the pinkish decorations. The glitter that was
lacking in the clothes, however, was supplied by
the blazing distinction of the attendance.
Donald Mackinnon was present with his sub-
stantial spouse; Agar brought along Mis. Wynne;
Mrs. Fairbairn produced her lord ; gaud-Mayor
Burston appeared with his eminent missus ; and
big, black Councillor Luxton joined in gravely
with Mrs. Luxton. Among others noticeable in
the swarm were the husband of Mrs. Norman
Bayles ; Mr. Riddell, of the Board of Shirks ;
Payne, M.L.0.; and several exhibits from the
local aristocracy.
On the evening of the ’Murkan Day of Inde-
pendence, Barrister Andrews gave a Mark Twain
lecture. Dr. Andrews has a reputation as a lec-
turer, and he has some treasured remarks made
by various p ayed-and-gone Governors and other
importants that bear out the idea. But for a
man to stand on the windy platform of the large,
gusty Town Hall to talk Mark Twain is the
beginning and end of foolishness. To talk to the
Town Hall one must orate —lift the voice and
orate ; and to tell a Mark Twain scrap
of drollery in the politician’s declamatory way
is wilful murder in the first decree. Mark Twain
wants to be talked from the depths of an easy
arm-chair, to the accompaniment of smoke, with
the audience in close and cosy proximity.
Anyhow, Andrews did not talk about the man
or talk round his writings : he got up and de-
liberately recited long passages direct from the
books. His memory was excellent, and he coughed
out the words in a monotone—words that one
could hear (in the mind’s ear) Mark Twain drawl-
ing out in quaint bursts and pauses. It is easy to
read the books to the mental accompaniment of
that whimsical voice; but it is hard luck to have
them stodged at one by rote.
The money in the matter was to go to the Vic-
torian Eye and Ear Hospital. All the medical
and surgical staff sat in a row on the platform.
Now these men were within telephone distance of
the speaker, and the other audience had the
extra joy of seeing them double up every
nowand again as if they had a severe attack of
colic. It was the expression of a laugh. Mark
Twain was getting one in on them—they were
within shooting range. An unfortunate, cold,
beautifully-dressed audience in the hall sat up
straight and wore a pained look or a vacuous
smile as it strained its ears to catch the point.
One story that did appeal to the Eye men (and
which drifted down the hall by its very famil-
iarity) was the Jumping Frog story of the
spinster with the wall-eye, to whom locals pobte-
fully would say : “ Excuse me, Miss Spifkins, but
your store eye’s fotched loose ! ” But, as a whole,
the lecture would not warm the listening spirit of
Mark Twain. Peace to his ashes !
Harold Hansel], the sprightly bank clerk who
loosed his humor in “ Dewdrop Danby” and
other short-story books, has thrown up the bank-
ing business and gone into one of the few lines of
trade suited to an author. Harold—his.baptismal
name libels him absurdly—is now the pushing
manager or agent for an Australian ink factory.
Caldwell’s writing ink has its works down at
South Melbourne, and from that fiery football
district Harold is ink-slinging around the Com-
monwealth. His thoughts are ink-stained, and
his enmity to the imported article is equally per-
sonal and patriotic. Pretty soon Caldwell is
to have a factory in Melbourne city, and then
the brisk smile of the young man may be seen
again in Collins-street.
The late Dr. £ £ Smith, when Tewkesbury
bought his Collins-street house, said : “ Everyone
is wondering and discussing what Tewkesbury is
going to do with my house—nobody suggests what
I’m' to do for a home. Haven’t the vaguest idea
where I’ll go when I leave here.” So Death took
the matter in hand. L. L. Smith was 80, but he
never looked his age.
Melbourne’s idea of providing a King Edward
memorial has been followed by an unparalleled
waive of enthusiasm. The Age reports with-
gratification :
We have received in aid of the King Edward Memorial
Fund 2s. from E. R.
Evidently, the great movement is. progressing by
leaps and bounds —12 penny leaps and two
sixpenny bounds.
Tom Carter spreads out his drawings and paint-
ings for the delectation of art lovers. The studio
is in Cromwell Buildings, and the show will be
from .July 19 to July 30. The private view is
fixed for the 19th.
Gertrude Alger is back in Melbourne after four
years of hard study with Prof. Kruse in the land
of the glorified sausage. Great things are ex-
pected of Gertrude. She was a fine violinist
when she had her farewell concert at the Town
Hall of yore. Not long ago she was winning
golden opinions in Britain, and now she is pre-
pared to astonish Australia. But not until the
weather gets warmer, one hopes. A violin recital
in a cold hall on a bleak night is not an entertain-
ment. It’s an infliction.
The Asches spread themselves in a furious
attack of the charity matinee epidemic, and
caught a big house on Friday. The programme
was full of good things from the Ascheian
Shakspeare, with the divine Lily in all her
brightest parts. The house was shepherded by a
crowd of dames, who have grown into profes-
sional whips for the charity entertainment. The
O’Hara girls and their prototypes rushed joyfully
about with blue snoods in their hair—the badge
of the moment —and sold programmes and sweets.
If this “ push ” doesn’t open a sweet shop on its
own, all this practice is sheer waste of en-
thusiasm.
A monument to the consummate conceit of
mummers was the finale of the matinee, when a
sleek manager came aboard with a business-like
tin box. Lily Bray ton, smiling among the
avalanche of vegetable matter heaped round her,
drew a paper with much mystery from the
battered cash-catch. Manager announced im-
pressively that number one thousand and two-
pence ha’penny had won the “pictures.” A call
boy then deposited two life-size portraits (framed)
like the “enlargements” done by country adver-
tising photographers—one of “Lil,” as the gods
boys call her, in full poise, and the other of Oscar
himself importantly writing at a table. Presented
—by raffle—by the Asches.
There was a fine flavor about the vegetables
offered at the Asche shrine. They were not the
wired and worried exotics, but great clothes
baskets of wattle and clumps of the native heath
—the delicate pinky beauties that make a carpet
all over the Western Port peninsula. The penin-
sula is a park just now, with the heath among the
bracken at the feet of beautiful spreading gums,
and is made up of lonely wild stretches. The
Asches have been much motored round that
country, and have been joyful in the beauty of
the close-to-town country scenery.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The ex-Excellency Plunkett, of Maoriland, hurried over
the face of South Australia, last week, on his way to look
for Britain. He ran into Government House for a break-
fast chop, and stayed two days. He also mentioned that
he would like to see the wheels of the State machinery go
round. A messenger was sent off to wake up Parliament,
and collect a Premier or so ; and Plunkett was taken into
the House and allowed to sit by the Speaker and hold his
hand.
Mr. Boulton and Miss Hughes, out on Lady Dudley’s
scheme of nurse-errantry, have been staying at the Resi-
dence, handing out much information on the subject.
One day they had a meeting with the satraps of our
District Trained Nurses’ Society, which same they seem
anxious to beg, borrow or swallow for the use of their
scheme aforesaid. The latter promises to be merely a
larger and perhaps more untidy brother of our good
District Nurses’ Society, which, permit me to inform
you once and for all, is neither an halluci-
nation nor a chimera, but an able-bodied organisation.
It has years of experience behind it, and it has eleven
suburban and live country branches, each supporting a
district nurse. If the Dudley Excellence can get the
other States a society a little more than half as good, she
will he doing a deed that the Angel Gabriel can’t com-
plain of.
Next day our Excellencies gathered the beauty and the
chivalry of Adelaide into Government House, and Miss
Hughes and Mr. Boulton talked at length. The Premier
patted the scheme on the back, and then a few stray
doctors and casual nurses, together with Mrs. Allan
Campbell and Mrs. J. J. Duncan, Mrs. Butler and one or
two more w ere formed into a committee. But what they
are going to commit I know not.
The Hunt Club ball, like various other large and un-
wieldv festivities, has been postponed until next year.
The Hunt, however, despite its grief .about King Edward,
has galloped at large every Saturday 1 , and the untamed
aniseed big has been tracked down. Last Saturday the
Cheltenham Park racecourse was borrowed, and the pink-
clad fraternity tied up their horses and stayed to dinner.
Then they came out, rushed in demoniac haste over the
surrounding country, and came back to tea.
Peter Daw'son, of this State, returned to the Cold . Old
Land, has enough engagements to fill both hands and
all his pockets. At latest, he was warbling “ Thou Art
Passing Hence, My Brother,” and bits of the “ Stabat
Mater” at the Crystal Palace memorial services.
The periodically troubled person who sees devils in his
sleep has sent our Treasurer a donation of £7, being
i: 6 10s. swindle money and 10s. interest upon same. The
Home for Weak-Minded Persons is being enlarged.
The rumor mentioned a week or two ago, that a
moneyed S.A. bachelor had flown to Britain to interrupt
a clever singer-girl’s career with an engagement ring,
proves to be either false or premature. Congratulations
have been heaped upon the twain, but the career is, still
intact and the engagement ring is still waiting. A hidden
allusion lurks in the last statement. A prize of a grand
piano will not be given to the first person Who discovers
what it is.
A shop in King William-street last week sprouted a
large notice intimating that the tenants were- removing
to fresh woods and fruit shops new because the owner
had doubled the rent on the expiration of the lease.
Adelaide, unused to such frank treatment, stood and
gaped; but the landlord wasn’t worried much. You
can treble your rent these days in S. Australia. In fact,
houses are so scarce that citizens are reduced to offering
£5 reward to anyone who will give information that
may lead to the arrest of a .suitable dwelling. Others
turn the kine into a cold world and live in the stable.
There was a Government land sale the other morning,
and the crowd of homeless wanderers seeking a bit of
country to sleep on was so tremendous that the
auctioneer had to turn out of the Lands Department and
move into the Town Hall.
Our medical boys of the University will suspend the
pursuit of the germ one eve in August and take saltatory
exercise in Norwood Town Hall. The cheerful young
crowd which learns to make steam-engines, aeroplanes,
sausage machines and other geometry at the School of
Mines*' built leagues of artistic heliotrope paper decora-
tions, swathed the Brookman Hall with them last Friday
evening, and had a hefty hop.
The Home for Incurables ball rolled over the Unley
City Hall on Thursday evening-, and several hundred
people gave cash and support to the good cause. The
matron of the institution has just resigned her far-froni-
blithesome billet, after associating with the Incurables
for 15 long years. One would think that,, like Henry L,.
she would never smile again.
Five wild lacrosse teams, each with a war-cry that
would have wakened Julius Ciesar, Henry VIII. or any
other reasonably dead person, surged on to this landscape
last week and grappled daily on the Oval. I disremember
the result, but it was a great series of events.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


''m
m
SH
i i
11
m
m
m m
mm
mi
mi
m
m
Hff *; - * '■ ; ; ■
;;
' . ■
'
m mm
-
'■ j p
HBnS
'•, * <A»S
■ - m
... mi
r .
a i
. .
%
iMM
383
DEWAR’S
WHISKY
Of High Repute
c Dewar’s Whisky
has achieved its
exalted position for
good and sufficient
reason. ct In the
opinion of discrimin-
ating men, Dewar’s
Whisky is account-
ed “Excellent in
every
way.”


A. SAUNDERS’
N
EW..
OVEL
WEDDING GIFTS
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL, Polished
English Oak, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, China Lin-
ing, 13/6.
Other Styles. 1576, 20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver Lid and Base, Crystal Glass Dish,
A 1 Quality,
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated, Shell Design, in Velvet-lined Case,
10/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
i
.V. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR and FORK,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Crystal Glass Jar,
17/6 , ,
Other Styles, 22/6, 25/, 30/,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Real
Carlton China Bowl, Pure
Silver-plated Mounts,
15/0-
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD: BOWL and SERVERS, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel
Silver, Handsome Floral Decoration, China Bowl,
20/- .
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, L/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRUIT or SALAD DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Rainbow Glass Bowl,
25/-
Other Styles, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Sil-
ver, Richly
Other Styles, 17/6. 21/, 25/.
A. SA'ONDKHc.
SERVIETTE RING,
Pure Silver-plated,
Guaranteed Finest
' Quality,,
3/6.
HANDSOME GOODS THAT WILL
WEAR A LIFETIME
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE, on Rustic Stand,
Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Hand-
embossed, Guaranteed Finest Quality,
£ 2-
Special Shipment, £2/5/, £2/10/.
A WONDEKFUL INVENTION.
jhkjhkl
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-PLATE HOLDER, Pure Silver-plated, 6iin Lon
5/6
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Richly Embossed and Fluted,
£2/15/.
Other Styles, 30, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/, up.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
llin long, Finest Qualitv, Highly Burnished.
£2/5/.
lOin, £2. Other Styles, 25/, 30/. 35'.
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY JAR, Crys-
tal Glass, Silver-
ver-plated Lid and
Spoon,
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND,
Pure Silver-plated,
Thistle design, Opal
Tinted Glass, Sin
high, 7/9.
Other Styles, 5/6,
7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, BUTTER KNIFE, and BREAD
SERVER, Solid Silver, Pearl Handles; Hand-
engraved, 30/ •
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
GOODS
EXCEPT
CLOCKS
AND
CHINA-
WARE.
V 7
raj
are
m
zzSfjZSk
iliCVx
rm
"1
mv.
m
'■>
ssh
?S5?
mu
mig
SraSl«l
m
<s'i.ti>-
liS
SSPSf
V. --;
V'
WMIM,
isvr.
mm
:
KA
fßi!i#L '.*%
! IIIIII':i l ™ l,, "'l!lS!;iil I J'niiiMSs?
MSB
J),®.
umuiiinni [!] i "iiiiiii,
a. s venders.
ENGLISH OAK TANTALUS, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Mounts and Fit-
tings, 3 Fine Hobnail Cut Crystal-glass Decanters, 3 Liquor Glasses, 2 Crib
Boards and Pegs, English Lock, Secret Drawer, and Duplicate Keys,
£7/10/-
: :
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Em-
bossed, A 1 Quality,
17/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA-STRAINER and DRIIP-
CATCIIER, Pure Silver-plated.
4/0.
cihhi
am
©
'ffl
ItfH
In
ksee
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, ‘Qrys-
tal-cut Glass Bottles,
12/6
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 15/6.
Wl
on
g
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD-BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Richly Engraved, with Knife to Match,
25/.
Other Styles, ‘2l/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
n
SSH
m
im
mi
a
m
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, Silver-
plated Frame, Full Hobnail Cut-glass
Bottles, 25/-
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/.
0
jhkjh
I kill
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE, Jas. Dixon’s, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, A 1 Quality, comprising Tea,
Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, Hand-engraved, Fern Design, Gilt-lined, with Covers,
£ 5-
Four O’clock Size, £3.
OUR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE IS FREE.
-
wmmEt
BK%r» SS. 3 * W
r
A. SAUNDERS.
HEART SALT-CELLARS, Pure Silver Mounts and Spoons,
Finest Cut-glass Bowls, in Silk-lined Case,
13/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6.
Ll
}
s
h.
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER. ->*
807.809.811.813.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sration) SYDNEY.NSW.
m
ifltfCHs CIOCk/
kjh


Mr. M. O BRIEN, 43a Glenferrie Road, Hawthorn, Victoria,
Suffered from the after-effects of Double Pneumonia but
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
QUICKLY CURED HIM.
mi
■
sis
mm
mm
mm&rn
mm
rnmm
mm
mm
Sss
m
m
mm
mm
mm
m
mmm
mm
mm
m
isi
ii
■
w.v.vav'-'.wV.;';^
i
s&M
Ml
*
ii
mu
m
■
Sss'
MBs-, •• I
\ , *
. • .
£ s
i
■
ssssa
People who have Influenza and Pneumonia are
often left with a persistent cough, but if they
will read the following letter from Mr. O’Brien
they will learn how to cure it:
“With the hope that my experience may benefit some sufferer,
I think it only right that 1 should let you know what your Chamber-
berlain’s Cough Remedy has done for me. Some time ago I had a
very severe attack of double Pneumonia and Pleurisy, which left me
with a very distressing hacking cough, to which I was subject upon
every change of weatner. I tried numerous so-called remedies without
relief until when in Sydney I obtained and took a small bottle of
Chamberlain s Cough Remedy ; which completely banished my
cough. I now always keep it in the house. Myself, wife, and
three boys always take a dose upon the
least sign of colds, always with the same,
beneficial results. We likewise never fail
to recommend it to all sufferers.”
M. O’BRIEN.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
gjiP^SsSS«y?KV-.-«
BIRD!
aXUSTARD^I
Bird’s
Custard H)ith Sruii
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wa!eB,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
GUI
Of all Drapers throughout the World.
Manufacturers 57, Newton St., Manchester, Eng.
•DISTINCTION IN DRESS
No dress looks so rich and feels so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. It is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
EVERY YOUNG MAN CAN
LOOK TEN YEARS OLDER
by inducing a handsome moustache to grow on his face by the aid of
CAPILLARINE. It strengthens weak moustaches, and will cause
one to srrow where there is no sisn of one at present.
CAPILLARINE has been in constant demand for the last 30 years
and has never failed to give satisfaction. ' ’
Price 10/6 per Jar.
Posted Free in plain wrapper
to any part of the World.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 30 Year*.
Makes vou look manly
Before
*n«*
i
kjhkjh
ilil!
m
TUB
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99-101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses 111
tlie whole of Australasia.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it. is invalu-
able. / Also in a Golden Colour for fai hair.
[Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, iletton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2/3.
HAVE YOU PILES?
Remarkable Cure Effected ry Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills.
Perhaps there is no disease more irritating and
annoying than piles. It is the result of imperfect
circulation of the blood. The venous blood settles
in the veins of the rectum, and expanding these
veins produces the nodules known as piles. This
is sometimes produced by an inactive liver,
which does not permit the blood to return freely
to the heart; sometimes it is the result of a weak
action of the hear,t itself, and often it is due to
large masses of fasces lodging in the bowels and
pressing upon the veins, so that the blood cannot
return to heart and lungs. This disease is notohly
most painful, but also very dangerous, as the in-
flamed nodules are very apt to take on malignant
action, and cancer of the rectum is produced. Dr.
Morse's Indian Root Pills, in their action on the
liver, heart and bowels, strike at all these causes of
piles and remove them. “ I have been a residentof
Oatnaru for 26 years, and for many years I was
emploved in the Railway Department,” writes Mr.
D. M." Blair, Wansbeck Street, Oamaru, N.Z.
“ Some years'ago, through frequently getting wet,
1 became subject to piles. I tried many remedies,
but none have given me more relief and had more
permanent results, than Dr. ’Morse’s Indian Root
Pills; The bleeding and dreadful itching which
disturbed my sleep night after night was speedily
overcome when I commenced using these pills.
My wife was a martyr to biliousness, but Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills have entirely rid her of
that trouble, and a pill taken occasionally has had
a most wonderful effect upon her health. We
both recommend your valuable remedy, and you
may use this in any way yon desire.”*
Shell Motor Spirit.
ITS PERFECT PURlTY—
that’s the Point.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
V West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOBLIE and COOLCABDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ 0.K.” : Some lines I wrote for Tfie Bulletin
of June 11, 1892, are brought up to date by the awful
triumph of Jack Johnson. The nigger referred to in the
ancient jingle is Peter Jackson, and the defeated'white
man is Slavin.
One of the first results of the Jeffries dib&cle
was to raise the stock of Tahnimv. After the holy show
made of its invincible ex-boiler-maker by the son of Ham
people began to realise that Tahnimy’s endurance was in
quite the same street as that of Jeffries. And, moreover,
Johnson did not score a knock-out off Tahnuny, while he
did with Jeffries. All of which is calculated to make
Tahnuny feel good. As tipster of ring events the
Mclntosh is now just the one. When he was in the
U.S.A., and had sized Jeffries up considerably, he wrote
to this scribe: “I have tried my best to bring this
mountain of meat up to scratch, and have failed. I may
he wrong, of course, but honestly I do not think Janies
J. Jeffries, Esq., will ever get hack to form. God knows if
he’s as terrible in the ring as they say ; but, for my own
part, I sadly fear if ever the gentleman comes back to the
ring and fights Johnson, the colored brother will come
out on top. Among the fighters I have seen, and I have
seen the majority of them now, I think little Thomas
has the best chance of recovering the title he lost in
Sydney.” When he got to Reno'hedid not change his
belief, and cabled his opinion that Johnson was a sure
winner —wherefore the Mclntoshian chest is elevated and
“ What did I tell you ?”is a favorite phrase. Later on it
was reported that he had won nearly £l5OO by backing
his fancy.
The savage outbreak of racialism in the United
States after Johnson’s victory will probably cause the
State of Nevada to fall into line with the rest of the
U.S.A. in prohibiting fights to a finish. In which case,
the U.S. will probably cense to be the home of the manly
art, and the hub of the pugilistic world will shift across
the Atlantic to Paris. Just at present pug-ism is boom-
ing in the French capital, and ladies and gentlemen make
a point of seeing their weekly scrap. It has become part
of' the life of the French capital, and if the game
is struck dead in Yankeedom, Paris will be overrun,
although the United States will, no doubt, continue for a
time to be the training ground of the cull. Seems that a
fight between Burns and Johnson is almost a certainty if
Tahnuny can pull off the decision in his dust-up with
Langford. Many American authorities seem to think
that Langford is the superior of Johnson, and they openly
accuse-Johnson"of being afraid of his compatriot. Writer
doesn’t think Johnson is afraid of anything, but would
not be at all surprised to see him draw the color line
against his own race. He is sure to have an acute
attack of swelled head after this victory'. Certainly
he shows a great disinclination to meet Langford, and
that dusky image of God is about to use the same methods
on Johnson that the latter used on Burns to force him to
a match. Sooner or later he will have to fight Langford,
and if it has to be done, for his own sake ’twere well that
it were done quickly. For just now Johnson is at his
zenith. In the boxing game a man grows into aback
number quickly. And when he gets into the ring to
fight Old Age he always loses. The antagonist doesn’t
use his fists; he hits with a scythe.
The usual amount of dirt is beginning to fly
around the recent big scrap. Jeffries’s friends are declar-
ing that the white champion was doped on the morning
of"the fight in such a way as to render him incapable of
sustained effort and hard hitting. To which Johnson
savs most emphatically, “Bosh!” On the other hand,
Johnson declares that he was offered 100,000dols. to lie
down to Jeffriesinside eight rounds, but is gallant enough
to exonerate Jeffries from any part in the business.
While he was at it, Johnson should have told what he did
know as to the identity of the squarers. These things
are not interesting unless the names come out. Johnson
now declares that he is willing to wallop “little Tahmmy”
again, but it must be on his (Johnson’s) own terms this
time. Which means that if Johnson gets his way “Little
Tahmmy ” will probably get mighty little golden salve for
his bruises and contusions. The fight is said to be likely
to come off at the NationalSportingClub,London, under
the management of Mclntosh. Chances are that the
National Sporting Club will decline to stand Johnson at
any price after his breach of faith over the Langford
affair. The Langford-Burns scrap is now said to he
almost a certaintv, and will, if it does happen, take
place at R no, unless the Nevada authorities butt in
with a prohibition. It might be as well for the prelimin-
aries of the Burns-Johnson scrap to stand over till Lang-
ford has proved whether Burns is likely to show any
improved form. It is not much good Burns tackling
Johnson if he cannot mop up Langford, as the champion
would certainly use his defeat by Langford to beat him
still further down in the matter of sharing the proceeds.
* -* * *
There are more fine points about football than
the average onlooker thinks, and one of them came
before the Western District (Vic.) Ass. lately in the shape
of a query as to when a Baptist is not a Baptist. The
problem was heaved by a church organisation. It said
that one of its ciubs —a club belonging to a Baptist
church—desired to play a ’bailer whose father was Roman
Catholic and his mother Anglican. He had married a
Baptist girl and now favored that creed, but his position
was not too well defined. The Ass. decided that, inas-
much as he had been brought up Anglican, he would
have to continue of that persuasion, so far as football was
concerned.
* * -* *
Hughie Meeghan and Frank Thorn, a well-
matched brace of feathers, butted in at the Cyclorama
(Melbourne) one evening recently, and a busy mill of
SOmin.’s duration resulted. Meeghan is a lad who came
to the front suddenly, and is putting in good work with
the deliberate intention of staying there. Thorn experi-
enced the depressing effects of much of this good work
on this, their third, meeting. In the matter of bright
boxing, Meeghan was always about three lengths ahead
of his stocky opponent. He out-pointed him cleverly;
still even in the 20th round there was a chance of Thorn
winning with a stunning thump. The decisive plug
never struck Hughie in a susceptible place, however, and
referee Stokesbury handed Meeghan the plate. In their
former engagements Thorn won with a meagre majority
of points.
* * * *
Costa, of Sydney, being now nominal heavy
champion of this continent, is the prey of any ambitious
hittite who desires to fill that representative position,
and Ed Williams, formerly middle champion but now
well over the margin into the heavy brigade, wants a
piece of him. These two are to meet in Melbourne for
the belt and a modest flock of sovereigns ; and the winner
may fairly claim to be about the best thing in heavy-
weights available in Australia at the time of asking.
* * * *
Saturday was a great day in the annals of
N.S.W. Rugby League. On Sydney Agricultural Ground
the combined Anglo-Welsh team met mother composite
force representing Australasia. This is, so far as writer
knows, the first time an Australasian team has taken the
field. Maoriland was represented by those tw'o famous
players, R. Papakura and A. Asher. The other men were
drawn from Queensland and N.S. W., the old Ma State
supplying the bulk of them, of course. But though the
inclusion of the Maoris was a master stroke from a senti-
mental point of view, it was not a howling success as a
football manoeuvre. Papakura was somewhat slow, al-
though he did liven up in the second half (he had to) ;
hut, on the other hand, Asher was too fast altogether in
some ways. The gentleman had forgotten that
the first duty of a ’bailer is to pass immedi-
ately danger threatens. But Asher never passed,
only tried to crash through, and when he failed
held the ball with one arm and tried to wrestle with the
other. But a man cannot effectively do the Frank Gotch
trick with one arm only, so Asher invariably got the
worst of it and made trouble for his side. He is not the
reckless jumper he used to be, and on Saturday he did
the hurdles act only once, and then from a very low
tackle. Altogether, the Englishmen faced an easier pro-
blem in the combined team on Saturday than they had
previously tackled in Sydney. But both sides played
wild, and the match, though “ willing,” was not a first-
class exposition of the Northern Union system. It
ended in a draw, with 13 points each, but it should
have been an English victory. For the escape the
home team can thank Lomas’s faulty kicking. Lack
of combination among the local backs marred the
Australasian attack. There were few of the brilliant pas-
sing charges that distinguished the earlier matches of the
campaign, and what good ones there were were made by
the English—when they closed (heir mouths and gave their
legs a snow. For the way those men talked was dreadful.
As usual, the English did not play their darnedest fill
two of their men had been carried off. Then the team laid
itself out to do deeds of derring-do, and did them with
the wind in its face and a diminished force. The way it
came at the end of that second half was good to see. All
the same, it practically threw the match away after hav-
ing all the best of the play.
Australasian captain Messenger won the toss
from captain Lomas, and elected to start with the stiff
breeze behind him. His orders were to force the game
and pile up a big margin of points. Then, in the second
half, they could play a strong defensive game. It was a
noble scheme, but Messenger reckoned without his team,
and although he had the satisfaction of drawing first
blood in the shape of a try, the wind blew away his shot
at goal. Then England charged, but Farnsworth inter-
cepted and the game swept back to the English line,
where a score seemed certain till the English came
again, and, obtaining a penalty kick, scored their first
two points. The Australasians marked and added another
two points. Almost immediately Messenger opened up,
and having his own men with him, ran through the English
and scored another unconverted try. (Hereabouts Asher
started the bumpy career that ended with his being
grassed and sat on effectively, towards the end of the
game, by a burly Englishman.) The British pulled them-
selves together,'and the way the backs spread themselves
out showed that a passing charge was to be let loose at
the first opportunity. It started just inside the 25yds.
line, was pulled down, came again, was blocked, swayed
across the ground, and then with one more effort got
through. Lomas failed to add the points, and the score
was eight to five in favor of Australasia. At the end of the
first half Australasia left the field with only three points
to the good. It looked like a certain British victory. But
the way the Australasians opened the second half showed
there was nothing certain about it. In the teeth
of the wind and a defence in which uppercuts were
largely included, the Australasians kept the English
penned up on their goal-line till a penalty kick made the
Australian score 10. Almost immediately afterwards the
home team made another try, and although Messenger’s
kick missed, th>- delighted 50,000 people present saw
with amazement that the Australians were scoring better
against the wind than with it, and led by 13 to five.
Then the Englishmen became transmogrified. Beautiful
passing charges followed one another in quick succes-
sion, and although they were stopped and Papakura
kicked for his life, Lomas sent it back again every time
just where his men wanted it. Inch by inch the English
bored down, and on the line, after a wild-cat struggle,
broke through. Lomas missed the goal. After a brief spell
on the defensive the Englishmen renewed the tactics
that had just proved successful, and again reached the
line, where Messenger, intercepting, had only the Eng-
lish full-back between hint and the goal. But he was
enough, for Messenger, seeing he could not evade the
tackle, kicked lightly Over his head, and the ball rolled out.
Out of the scrum the English secured, and, after three
beautiful attempts, broke through, and then added the
extras, making the score 13 all. There it stayed ;in fact,
it is there yet. #
The Rugby Union had a cold day in Sydney on
Saturday. Less than 1000 people, including deadheads,
were in the Cricket Ground to watch the last match
against the Yankees, and to listen to the howls of de-
light and hoots of rage from 50,000 in the Agricultural
Ground next door. It was a case of playing the game for
the game’s sake, right enough. What the Yankees
thought of it is unprintable. The Union officials blushed.
The Yanks were up against the Metropolis, and although
they were in excellent condition and played with all their
souls and feet, their wild passing and lack of combination
proved fatal. But their tackling was deadly and saved
them the bitterness of defeat. Had they only looked
where the next man was when passing they might have
won. But they passed to the Metropolitans as often as
they did to their own men ; and a great struggle ended
in a drawn game, with eight all.
* * * *
On the same ground the same afternoon a team
from Melbourne University met the collegians of Sydney
under Union Rugby rules. The Melbournites were in-
sufficiently coached, and occasionally lapsed into Aus-
tralian Rules, and were penalised accordingly. Grassing
a man is repugnant to Australian Rules, and the Mel-
bourne men failed to grass when tackling, and conse-
quently did no good. Tnere’s only one way to stop a
man in Rugby, and that is to grass him hard. Also, the
visitors kicked when they should have passed, and gener-
ally hashed things up. The result was disaster in the
shape of a 34 points to six defeat.
* * * *
The Yankee tour is finished and the English-
men have gone to Mmriland—so the two branches of
Sydney Rugby will revert to their normal conditions.
The League has had great success, but the Union has
slumped horribly. At the beginning of the season the
opposing factions swung evenly in the balance, the Union
appearing—if anything—to have a slight advantage of
weight. And then the Northern Union English team fell
into the League scale, and the Union kicked the beam.
There seems more than a possibility that it may yet kick
the bucket, for the Saturday attendance was the low-
water mark. The bringing out of the English team was a
master stroke. The Maoris, had they been the Maoris of
other days, might have balanced things somewhat; but
they proved a brummy team to what had gone before.
Result, down went McGinty. Whether he will come up
again this season is problematical. Fortunately for
itself, the Union has some reserve funds which may en-
able it to tide over the slump and out-dazzle the League
the coming season. But the League is in a better fight-
ing position than ever—though, fortunately for the
Union, it doesn’t seem to have room to absorb any more
players.
* * * *
Barring accidents, the Australian Rules pre-
miership looks a good thing for the Good Young Men,
with East Sydney as runner-up. North Shore has a
possible, and may come with a hard rush at the finish and
get in first by a nose ; but muscular Christianity is in far
the most hopeful position.
* * * *
The Australian game appears to be booming
somewhat in Sydney now, and good crowds rolled up to
watch Saturday’s matches. Newtown was again bumped
out by East Sydney, and Y.M.C.A. blew out the gentle-
men from Redfern, who showed good taste by editing
their team somewhat. North Shore ran over the Students,
and Sydney just managed to beat Paddington on the
post.
* # * *
The Young Australia League sent a strong
team from Sydney to Melbourne last week. The
“ kids ” will probably play before 100,000 people before
they return, and should pick up a lot of valuable points,
as they have to meet some good teams. E. VY. Quin, the
boys’ football father, goes in charge of the mob.
* * * *
The match between N.S.W. and Queensland at
Brisbane, under Union rules, on Saturday, was played off
before about 3000 people, and ended in a victory for the
Ma State by 11 points to three. Towards the end Queens-
land made desperate endeavors and the Ma Staters saved
the situation only by adroit forcipg.
* * * *
Saturday’s League football in the village by the
Yarra was os tortuous and uncertain as that rivulet
itself. Geelong, which has put up some hefty games of
late, was expected to give Carlton a hard battle ; but,
alas! the stiffening had departed from the team and
there was no fight in it. Right from the start the “ Old
Blues” went ahead, reaching the quarter with 37 points
to Geelong’s nine. This was increased by half-time to 06
to 13. When the lop-sided and unseemly disturbance
closed, with Carlton’s 107 points to Geelong’s 33, few
were sorry. Down at South Melbourne an equally
lamentable disaster overtook Collingwood. The
Red-and-White barrackers were as jubilant as a
poodle with a pink rosette ; but those who had
gone thither in anticipation of a close and ex-
citing struggle sourly demanded to know what sort of
a take-down it was atid what had come over the Magpies
that they could only score 33 points to the 95 of Skinner’s
hirelings. The matter with ’Wood is one that the com-
mittee should grab hold of at once and violently. In-
stead of playing the concerted, systematic game that
compels victory, many of the Magpies utterly ignore it,
and indulge in spasms of individual brilliancy that draw
the gallery but ensure defeat for the team. It is the old
story of the house divided. The best encounter of the
day was that between University and Essendon. Mark-
ing with splendid certainty, passing unselfishly, and
kicking hard and straight, the Students held a
bit more than their own right through the tussle, and
finally hung a well-earned scalp at their belts by 18 points
—75 to ’Don’s 57. Melbourne managed to scrape to-
gether a poor 34 points against Richmond’s 87, and St.
Kilda scratched up a similar number against ’Roy’s 62.
This writer has wearied of noting the lamentable failures
of Saints and Melbourne, the latter of which has won
one game out of II and the former none at all, and he
henceforth proposes to consider them deceased and
utterly buried until they do something worth recording.
The five Ass. games were just as one-sided as
those of the League, only the Essendon-Footscray col-
lision showing a glimpse of the excitement that a close
finish affords. Though leading throughout, the ’Dons
were but four points ahead at lemon-time ; but after that
'So-ray.could only notch a dilapidated behind while its
opponents shoved on anoth- r 15 points, leaving them
winners by 70 to ’Scray’s 52. Brunswick ran against
’Town, and up to half-time had put together but 11 points
to’Town’s 30; but thereafter the Brickies shook them-
selves up, got square at lepion-time, and ultimately ran
out winners by 52 to 37. By all the rules of logic and
common.sense, if such things enter into the field of ’ball,
Port should have bogged into its game with P’ran and
have downed it after a period of athletic rage; but Port
wasn’t in a humor to rage, neither did it bog in, in spite
of the adjurations of the barrackers ; so the disturbance
closed with the board showing: P'ran, 125 points; Port,
54 points. The mighty North spread itself over ’Cote,
piling up 125 to 36 ; and Brighton pulverised the hopeless
Preston team by 96 to 44. Remarks previously passed as
to the dreary incompetence of Preston can be taken as
here repeated. Preston is about the limit.
Nothing sudden happened during the week,
save the hanging, or rather suspension, for a month of
two Ballarat ’bailers for doing the Jeffries-Johnson act
on the field of plav ; but sundry honorariums had some-
thing to say to two hefty ’bailers who were asked why
they didn't keep their respective wives and families. One
swore he got nothing for playing, and only 30s. a week as
wages from Robert Harper and Co. This assertion doesn’t
seem to have done him much good, as the Court made
an order for 7s. 6d. a week; and next day “ Harpers ”
published the information that he had been paid
365. a week, but had been summarily sacked for
his inaccuracy. The other, having failed to comply
with a similar’magisterial request, was cursorily arrested
while training on Thursday evening, but as he was
bogging in as usual on Saturday his club had presumably
bailed him out. These private matters are hardly worth
noting; but the Melbourne’bailer is getting into a too
frequent habit of letting his wife and bairns look after
themselves, and as they all with one consent swear they
get nothing by their' football, the old question once
more arises : What the deuce becomes of all the money ?
Having communed together in secret, the Vic.
League and Ass. have finally decided not to buy, borrow,
hire or steal each other’s players in future unless both
bodies and the clubs concerned grant permits, though
anv player may go wheresoever he will and join any club
he is minded after three years’ absolute ce.-sation from
play. Also, disqualifications by either body are to apply
to both. This isn’t anything riotous ip the way of im-
provement; but, if honestly carried our, it should pre-
vent much of the existing traffic in ’bailers. The trouble
is that if the club with money to burn cannot buy new
players it will be liable to concentrate its alleged intellect
on buying games.
Essendon Harriers’ four-miles open foot race
occupied the Iveilor-road (Melbourne)last Saturday, when
a record field of 106 runners toed the mark and pursued
one another over a two-mile out and ditto home course.
The race proved a good thing for C. Keritz, a member of
the Y.M.C.A., who had a 3min. ssec. advantage from
Geo. Blake. However, when the timekeeper put up his
calculations for perusal, it was discovered that S. S. Long,
of the quiet I own of G. Long, had busted the record of
21min. by covering the journey in 20min. 50see. Bert
Whiting, an East Melbourne harrier, created the
21min. record aforesaid in '99, and though Norman
Burrowes, another East Melbournite, ran inside
Whiting’s figures, the 21min. has stood officially in
the Vic. records. Long is a huge surprise, as prior to
Saturday he had never set the knowing ones thinking.
He will be afforded an opportunity to substantiate his
form at Ballarat next month in the five-miles cross-
country championship. George Blake did a sound
21min. lOsec. ; but though he ran his usual
gritty race throughout, he never sighted the
record buster, who had 55see. start. The course has
several ups and downs, and the going wasn’t by any
meansfast, so the performance is all the more credit-
able, if there isn’t a weak link somewhere. Alfred Shruhb
did four miles on a grass track at Sydney in 20min.
0 3-ssec., so the local peds. have still a bit to move up,
though a road run is a far tougher proposition than pad-
ding a nicely-shorn grass track, as the machine-like
Alfred did.
» « * *
The Tarrant Motor Co., of Melbourne, is in
receipt of news of some fine records put up by the Fiat
cars at the recent races at Modena, Italy. As usual,
Nazarro, the dare-devil, took the cake, with a hair-raising
rush at the rate of 54.6 miles per hour.*
* * * *
He who would go out to fish, as the best and
brainiest of us do, should secure a copy of the Austral-
asian fishing tackle catalogue, issued by Mick Simmons,
of Haymarket, Sydney. It contains 127 pages of infor-
mation and illustrations, showing what is required for
the various localities. It is a mine of information no
fisherman can afford to be without.
« * * *
Steeplechase Day at Flemington brought^un-
wonted satisfaction to them who follow “form.” A
horse that nearly won the first race over six furlongs got
away easily enough with the last race over a mile. Obi
and The Reckoning, each carrying a stone more than
their weight in the G. N. Hurdle, on the previous Satur-
day, finished first and second, as before, after which
punters marvelled why they had reckoned the loser, at 6
to 4, a better chance than the winner at sto 1. Ami
Grafnax justified the allegations of his Sydney friends by
winning the Steeplechase all the way. With the excep-
tion of Harvest, nothing ever looked to be going as
strongly as Grafnax ; but just when the impetuous
progeny of The Harvester seemed bent on leading the
field he struck the log fence in front of the stand. In a
field of 17 the obstacles settled nine, and the ancient
River Bank, said to be a 17-year-old, paid the penalty of
extreme rashness by getting killed.
The Automobile Club of Australia, the Sydney
bodv, is out for a slavish imitation of the Royal Auto-
mobile Club of England. The local gentlemen are not
satisfied with their club badge, which is denounced as
“a cheap-looking affair.” Most of them hanker after a
badge with an enamelled Union Jack in the centre, but
are apprehensive that the English club will not allow it,
though what right the Englishmen have to block it is
hard to understand. All the same, it is up to the Auto-
mobile Club, if it must have a flag, to adopt that of the
country in which its members get their living.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Motor Boat Club is in trouble.
Last vear the Rudder, an English yachting journal,
donated a cup valued at £36 for an ocean race. The club
joyously accepted the trophy and raced for it before if
arrived, over the Sydney-Newcastle course. _ Now the
blessed utensil has come, and pinned to it is a bill for
£l5 Os. lid. representing insurance, freight and duty.
The club is not feeling good over it, and doesn’t feel that
it wants a cup at the price. Neither does the winner ;
and nobody knows exactly what the devil to do ab ut it.
Apparently the best idea is to pay up and look pleasant,
but to courteously decline all overseas trophies for the
future.
* * * *
The unlucky 13 again— and this time it brought
no good to anyone. Johnson, of course, counts 13 dead
lucky. A Maorilander motor-cyclist named A. F-. Wood-
man', who had drawn that number in the Annual Motor-
Cycle Tourist Trophy Race to be held in the Isle of Man,
was having a trial run round the course. He smashed
up at a tricky corner, and his leg was so badly
fractured that it hid to be amputated. When the race
duly eventuated, with the 13 eliminated, 74 riders faced
the'starter—but only 29 completed the full course. The
struggle was a great one, and the course horrible—con-
sisting of 16 miles of hills and sharp corners. This had
to be traversed 10 times, and the remarkable thing is
that it was negotiated without any accident. The finish
saw a desperate duel between two brothers, G. R. and
H. A. Collier. G. R. won, covering the 158 J miles in 3hr.
7min. 24sec. His brother, who won last year’s race, ran
second five minutes later. That course should be aban-
doned—it’s too dangerous.
THE MORAL OF IT.
Kindly put away the tocsin,
Let it never sound again
For a hero who is boxin’
Far away across the main.
Sure, a cynic well may snigger
At the crowd who take delig-ht
In the game whereat a nigger
Knocks the stuffing from a white.
We will talk about our rowing
And our cricket as before,
Bun, you bet! we are not going
Mad on Slavin any more.
It is time for us to shudder
At the mention of a fight
When we find a colored brudder
Boxing better than a white.
Let us drop our “ noble science ”
With a dull and deadly thud ;
Whilst the negro shouts defiance
We must chew the bitter cud.
Hear his dusky fingers snappin’!
And to crow he has a right.
Sure, we ought to cease from scrappin’
If a black can beat a white.
We have looked on “John L.” soaking
Up his liquor at the bars ;
We have studied Slavin smoking
Callow worshippers’ cigars ;
We have heard those heroes blunder
Through some sentences of skite,
And they didn’t make us wonder
That a black can “ do” a white.


THE “MOTA” (Regd.)-
S •
. %
i
■
.
The man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a DESIRE for the “ Mota”—-he has
a NEED for one. For the “ Mota” at a small price
is the most comfortable and most distinctively
stylish soft felt of the day. .
The material is good—it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit your style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “Mota” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills* Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
£,500.
2J-30H.P.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
| WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. |
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
ljh
Zdw Points
Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
\\'rite tome describing' your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cc/dially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALL! NAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings. Collins Street, Melbourne.
c
\
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound 1
i A safe and simple remedy for
' Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with each bottle
or mailed on request.
Tba Etui Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
D.S.A.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
19
a
AGENTS—Melbourne : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Little
Collins St.; Brisbane; Webster & Co., Ltd.,
Mary St. ; Perth : McLean Bros. &Rigg-; Sydney:
.John Keep & Sons, Titd., Clarence St.
Australasian Representative—T. Nicholls, Sydney.
Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return paid if
Wright’s Rheumatia /ißeinedy,. Ahej Canadian
cure, does jtot/ cure 'yxmr
lunxbaTb, or //roubles/' /Orcourse,'' this
coikd/o<Wbp('done it/ these \yere many failures,
matter of facpp-fnere have been only
thrdeinstances in J&ier'years in which the refund
was claimed It /ou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ prove
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Buy RIGNEY FOOTWEAR by Mail
If it is inconvenient for you to come to our store,
remember we can fill your requirements satis-
torily through the mail.
Rigney footwear is positively the highest grade in
fit, style, material and workm inship.
The shoe illustrated is a Derby Willow Calf Shoe,
rope stitched welts ; also in boots.
19/6 and 22 O.
In Tan Boots and Shoes, 16/6 and 21/-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
w-
-1:
Sr.
PRIZE !J aIue £2250
8-HOUR ART union
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO. 2nd Prize, value £250.
3rd Prize, value £lOO. And 297 Other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Bawdy. Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
i
m
A CHEAP CYCLE
is a poor instrument. The constant repairs irritate a man and make
him feel reveng-efnl towards the builder.
The B. 8 B. MODEL 3 CYCLES
are built of best imported parts, fitted
with first-class tyres, and
guaranteed a year for 3C*ll*
HIGH-QUALITY MACHINE AT A LOW PRICE.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE, MENTIONING “THE BULLETIN.”
OUR PITT STREET DEPOT IS OPEN EVERY FRIDAY TILL 9 P.M.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Building:,
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC.
BOVRiL
makes delicious bouillon, rich, tasty gravies; adds flavour
and strength to stews, hashes, entrees, etc.
BOVRIL IS THE TRUE ECONOMIST IN THE KITCHEN.
lkj
A Razor with a Guarantee.
We are so certain that the PLUM RAZOR will he
more than .you even expect a good razor to be, that
we guarantee to keep it in order free of charge for
two years. It has an extra hollow-ground blade
brought to a keen edge, and is the most satis-
factory in the world.
PRICE
10 j 6 ™EE.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
ether good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG g AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established SO Years.
“LINSEED COMPOUND”- -Trade Mark of Kay's
Compound Essence of Linseed for Couplis and Colds.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a .
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead: df an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price -1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIBS I
hree Witches
b CIOARETTE*
for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
WIRTHS OLYMPIA.
every eyening at 8 ——
MATI NEES-Y/EDHESD AYS, SATURDAYS AMD HOLIDAYS AT 2 JO.
CPENCER'SIHEATREJCOPE (?.
tfßr, suPEKiorz ro pi.l others
Popular Prices
Pi AM AS USUAL
Amusements.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ 1 Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF THE SEASON. -
every evening, at s,
J. c. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Bright Musical Comedy of Solid Laughter,
A KNIGHT TOR A HAY.
BoxJNan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGItOVE.
RUPERT CLARKE <te CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
LAST SIX NIGHTS and Positively the Farewell Appear-
ances of MATHESON LANG and HUTIN BRITTON in
THE PASSING OF THE THTRI)
FLOOR BACK.
MATHESON LANG as THE STRANGER.
HUTIN BRITTON as THE SLAVEY.
Box Plan at Elvv’s.
T
HEATRE ROYAL. SYDNEY.
Lessee & Manager : J. C.- WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AT S,
NELLIE STEWART, Australia’s Idol,
in J. M. Barrie’s Famous Play,
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
NELLIE STEWART as MAGGIE WYLIE.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
A WEST’S PICTURES ENTERPRISE.
Altogether Unique in the History of the World.’
SYDNEY DAY BY DAY.
“ What the Papers give you for Breakfast West’s Pic-
tures will illustraie for your amusement Supper.”
The Entertainment must, commend itself to all classes
of the community, and will be styled
'WEST’S PICTURES
JOURNAL OF DAILY EVENTS.
FIRST PICTORIAL PUBLICATION AT AN EARLY
DATE.
T HE
TWO
LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
PERFORMANCES DAILY.
MATINEE at 2.30. EVENINGS AT 8.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
PICTURES.
SPENCER IS SYNONOMOUS WITH SUPREMACY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s, 2/6.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY’S MATINEE.
SYDNEY GLA CIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY:—
10 to 12 Noon; 3 to 5 p.m. ; 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission Morning and Afternoon Only, Is.
Saturday Morning Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season Ticket s will be sent on Application.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, syoney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
LIANE DE EYLE and M. BRUNIN in their original
scena, “In a Billiard Room.”
PIP POWELL and KATE VESEY,
presenting a Musical Dialogue—“A Perfect Woman.”
LIEUT. FRANK TRAVIS, the Tramp Ventriloquist.
CHARLENE and CHARLENE, Comedy Juggler and
Lady Xylophone Expert
THE DARDINIS, American Comedy Jugglers.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at, Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Uickardjt.
MENDEL, Blind Pianist.
LES WARTON. IRVING SAYLES.
KREMO FAMILY, World’s Greatest Risley Performers,
THE FALCONS, COMEDY Acrobats.
RAYMOND TRIO.
VAUDE and VERNE, Comedians.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Andkrson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 16,
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic,Co. in
Nat Gould’s Great Racing Drama,
THE CHANCE OP A LIFE
TIME.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : «J. C. YVilliamson.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE ORCHID,
A QUEEN AMONG GAIETY SUCCESSES.
Cast includes Florence Young, Fanny Dango, Andrew
Higginson, Bertie Wright, Langford Kirby, Florence Vie.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
yhcA I lit ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THE LAST WEEK IN AUSTRALIA.
OSCAR ASCHE—LILY BRAYTON CO.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY NEXT, THE
MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR.
MONDAY, TUESDAY NEXT, OTHELLO.
WEDNESDAY, THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
FRHMY AY ) THE TAMING 0F THE SHREW.
rTnCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees : Rupert Clarke and Clyde Mevnell.
SATURDAY, JULY 16,
and for the remainder of the Season, Rupert Clarke and
Clyde Meynell present GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S
ENGLISH FARCICAL COMEDY CO.
in the Popular Farce,
WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
Revived after eight years bv special request.
PRICES AS USUAL. ‘ Box Plan at Allan’s.
J. B. Montrie, Business Manager.
JEST’S PALACE, MELBOURN E.
the best WEST S PICTURES, THE BEsT
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY ATS. 1
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Pic' ure Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
|yg ELBOURNE GLACIARIUM,
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
GRAND FANCY DRESS
CARNIVAL ON THE ICE,
TUESDAY 19th JULY, 8 p.m.
THIS CARNIVAL WILL BE
unique,
GORGEOUS,
FASCINATING.
HANDSOME PRIZES.
GENERAL ADMISSION ‘-2s.
RESERVED CHAIRS 2s. extra
’ - ■ SKATES, Is.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling: At Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 ISs. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London bj r this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mkt.hournb Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : CEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (|)utual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring- £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as t.o
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wai.es :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. .
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
Sydney Branch:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Bnnkino business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £5)3,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Gove. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
£750,581 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. —-r- ' -
Gen. Mngr.: Edvvd. I). Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
AUSTRALIAN 1
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors :
R. M. Phillips, Esq., J.P.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
D. W. Watkins, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St
Melbourne.
The “ Metropolitan ” always has vacancies on its
Apency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men. i
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
' Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.; W. 0.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
JHE trustees, executors
AGENCY COMPANi LIMITED,
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. 11.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BOR ROW MAN, Manasrer.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
LEARN
to make Incandescent
Gas Mantles, and
start a bank account.
We teach you the
secret for ss. The
demand is unlimited ;
they retail for 6d., cost Id. to make. Don’t miss
this chance. Address —
LANGLEY CO., Box 702, G.P.0., Sydney.
Shipping.
Nord D
eutscher
'loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples. Genoa. A Icier?.
iUnrspiMpo lt-n*. t «
Wireless ” installation.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cui-dne, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Ap-ents.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
, Tel. 698. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of l)° rt b Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 37o!o00
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
;lkj
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 3.
RUNIC, 12.500 tons, to Sail about
August 31.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0,0
New Vork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne .. .. .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capefoirn. Plymouth, and
London*
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
•Twin Screw, a One class only, f Omits Capetown.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. „ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickers from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
;jkl
WINTER TOURS<
to Papua and the Pac Tic Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns £2O
Aug. 12, Sept. 23 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands £2O
July 29, Sept. 9 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) ... £25
Pirst, of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT. —CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. j J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
3C
'S
\ ;
\ U
I
e
:¥SSIS2!
■ V
*« V
m
The “Bijou” for Home Billiards.
ammoKammamm
The u Bijou ” is an ideal table for home billiards, fitted with slate
bed and fast-running cushions, and covered in superfine billiard cloth
and beautifully finished. By a simple adjustment of leaves it is readily
converted into a fine dining-tabic. Easy terms arranged if desired.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALGOGK if Go* Pty. Ltd.,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth.
[2
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Train shippinsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, July 23.
'S.S. Bnllarra (from Fre-
mantle). July 27. calling
at all N.-West Ports to
Derby.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairn
S.S. Innamincka, July 2b
S.S. Grantala, July 30.
S.S. Yongalaj August 6.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields .
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on li
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTFj.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* New Steamer.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-screet, Sydney.
F.—H.=—>S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For* London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “DORSET,”
11,400 Tons. VV. L. Prentice, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 16th July
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ 19th July
,• ~ ~ ADELAIDE „ 22nd July
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIYEIU*OOL d . [ £49 10s ’ £l3 13s - £l5 15s - £ l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne:
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel.
VICTORIA STREET, Opposite Westminster
■ Abbey and the Houses
UWIM, England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per day, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE *'
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
QEORGE HOTEL,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria,


o oC
\L
v
Brownie Cameras are manu=
factured by the Eastman Kodak
Co., and are “ almost Kodaks.”
The Children’s Camera.
BROWNIES Produce
Excellent Photographs
and are Inexpensive!
YOUR BOY or GIRL will delight in taking photographs with a Brownie
Camera. And it is astonishing what splendid results can be secured by-
children of even seven or eight years —results which in later years are
fraught with much interest and pleasant recollection to all concerned-
And then the Brownie are so simple to use. They can be loaded
and unloaded in daylight. Roll films are used, and after exposure these can be
developed and printed in daylight with wonderful ease and certainty.
Don't think that the Brownie Cameras are only intended for the use of the
children. Many adults use them, and if you wish to get started in the hobby
at small expense, you cannot do better than invest in a Brownie.
Call at one of our Stores and inspect these splendid little cameras, or write
for a copy of the Kodak Catalogue giving full particulars. It is free.
No. 1 BROWNIE, 5/-
Takes pictures 2iin. x and has a carrying’
capacity for 6 exposures without refilling.
Weighs only Boz.
Price 5/-, Postage 6d. extra.
No. 2 FOLDING BROWNIE, 21/-
For pictures 2Jin. x 3Jin., and makes 6 exposures
without reloading. Weighs 16oz.
Price 21/-, Postage 9d. extra.
No. 2a FOLDING BROWNIE, 35/-
For pictures 2£in. x 4jin., and makes 6 or 12
pictures without reloading.
Price 30/-, Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2 BROWNIE, 10/-
Makes rectangular pictures 2£in. x 3|in.,
and lias a capacity of 6 exposures, without
reloading. Only weighs 13oz.
Price 10/-, Postage 9d. extra.
No. 3 FOLDING BROWNIE, 37/6
Makes 12 Quarter-plates, 3Jin. x 4|in.,
without reloading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 37/6, Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2a BROWNIE, 12/6.
Takes 6 or 12 pictures x without
reloading, and weighs 21oz.
Price 12/6, Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3a FOLDING BROWNIE, 42/-
The popular postcard size, 3£in. x s£in.
Has a capacity for 12 exposures without
reloading. Price —
With Single Lens, 42/- ; Rapid Recti-
linear Lens, 50/- ; Postage 1/3 extra.
No. 3 BROWNIE, 17/6.
Makes 12 Quarter-Plates, 3|in. x 4Jin.,
without reloading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 17/6, Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2 STEREO BROWNIE, 50/-
For Stereo Pictures, each x 2£in., and
has a capacity for 10 stereo exposures with-
out reloading. With a pair of Achro-
matic Meniscus Lenses.
Price 50/“, Postage 1/3 extra.
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.
379 George St., Sydney.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins St., JWelbourne.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill.
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
AND
SIZE CARD
SENT FREE
ON APPLICA-
TION.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
(Australia, Ltd.),
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE REFUND
YOUR HONEY
IN FULL IF
GOODS DO
NOT OPEN UP
TO YOUR
APPROVAL.
RINGS of every shape and size, heavy and light, plain and ornamental, set with Diamonds, Pearls, Turquoise, Emeralds, Sapphires, Ru ies
and any stone you wish —every ring our own manufacture and the handiwork of skilled jewellers. There is no showing of beautiful
rings like that at the u Treasure House," and, besides knowing that every ring is perfect, you have the satisfaction of effecting a
saving from 15 to 20 per cent, by purchasing direct from us. On all cash orders we pay postage and delivery charges, and guarantee
the safe arrival of all articles we send you. We employ no travelling salesmen or agents, so deal direct with us.
No. 171A—18ct. Gold, set
5 Opals, £2/10/-
No. H 1592 —18ct. Gold,
set 1 Sapphire or Ruby
and 2 Diamonds, £7/10/-
No. F8695—100t. Gold,
set Rubies, Diamonds
and Sapphires, £6/10/-
No. 0112—18ot. Gold,
Single Stone Diamond
Ring, £lO/10/-; Smaller
Stone, £6.
No. H9942—18ct. Gold
Signet Ring, £3 ; 15ct.
Gold, £2/10/-; Oct. Gold,
£l/5/-
No. 45—18 et. Gold, set
10 Diamonds, £B/8/-
No. G4Bls—lSct. Gold
set Pearls and Diamonds,
£5.
No. G 2791 —18ct. Gold,
set Diamonds, Ruby and
Pearl, £4/10/-
No. G4444—18et.. Gold,
set 2 Diamonds, 1 Emer-
ald, £2/5/-
No. 0190—18 ct. Gold,
set Fine White Diamond,
£6/10/-; set Sapphire or
Ruby, £2/5/-
No. GB9So—lBct. Gold,
set 5 Diamonds, £5/5/-;
Larger Stories, £lO/10/-
No. Jl44 —18ct. Gold,
Diamond Cluster Ring,
£7/10/-
No. 1923—18 ct. Gold,
Diamond and Ruby or
Sapphire, £lO/10/-
No. 1F4314—18ct,.. Cold,
Vine Pearl and Olivine
Ring, £4. ■
No. 179—ISct. Gold,
Chased Keeper Ring,
£l/7/6 ; other designs at
21/-, 30/- and 40/-
No. 181—18 ct. Gold, set
Diamondsand Sapphires,
£7/10/-
No. 106 —lBct. Gold,
Fine Opal and Diamond
Cluster Ring, £l7/10/-
No. 7305 —18 et. Gold,
Fine Pearl Half-hoop
Ring, £2/10/-
No. C9oBo—lBct. Gold,
set Sapphire or Ruby,
£3/10/-; Single Diamond,
£37/10/-
No. F 4612 9ct. Gold,
Amethvstor Garnet set
Ring, £l/7/6.
No. F927B—lBct. Gold,
set 3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds, £2/10/-
358
mm
No. Gsl9s—lBct. Gold,
set Diamonds and
Rubies, £l3/10/-
No. 01910—18ot. Gold,
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby Ring, £6/10/-
18ct. Gold, set 5 Peridots
or Garnets, £2/5/-
No. Cl—lBct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, £l/1/-
Heavier ones, 25/-, 30/-,
40/- to 60/-
No. 67358 -18 et. Gold,
set. Pearl, Sapphire and
Diamonds, £3/5/-
No. C2ol2—lBct. Gold,
set 7 Fine White Dia-
monds, £7/10/-
No. H 9828 —18ct. Gold,
Diamond Cross-over
King, £l5/10/-
ms.
No. D2B9l—lBct. Gold,
set 1 Ruby or Sapphire
and 2 Diamonds, £5/10/-
All Diamonds, £6/10/-
No. 171-~lBct. Gold, set
2 Sapphires and 7 Dia-
monds, £3/10/-
No. 104—18 ct. Gold, set
1 Sapphire or Ruby and
3 Diamonds, £lO/10/-
No. 02007—18 ct. Gold,
Sapphire and Diamond
Cluster Ring-, £25.
No. G4S63 —18ct. Gold,
set 10 White Diamonds,
i £6/6/-
No. Fs32S—lBot. Gold,
3 Sappliires or Rubies
and 4 Diamonds, £5/10/-
No. 180—15 ct. Gold
Buckle Ring, 30/-; 18ct.
Gold, 40/-
No. GB9S4 —18et. Gold,
set 5 White Diamonds,
£lB/10/-
No. Gs29B—lBct. Gold,
set Diamonds and Sap-
phires, £lO/10/-
w
No. G4Bl6—lBct. Gold,
set Pearl, Rubies and
Diamonds, £5.
No. C6—lBct. Gold,
Diamond and Sapphire
Cluster, £l2/10/-
No.' 7264—18 ct. Gold,
Snake Ring-, set 4 White
Diamonds, £6/6/-


Coughs and
Lung Troubles
Dear Sirs, —During the past winter I suffered much with weak lungs
and a most irritating cough. I was induced to try Angier’s Emulsion and
after taking two bottles the cough disappeared, the lungs became invigo-
rated and my general co dition vastly improved. Two other members of
my family were benefited by taking the Emulsion, and we now intend to
always keep a bottle in the house; We stro gly recommend it to all our
friends. (Signed) M. DEW,
Editor and Proprietor, Hawthorn and Camberwell Citizen .
ANGER'S EMULSION
(PETROLEUM WITH HYPOPHOSPHITES.)
Angier’s Emulsion is invaluable for coughs, bronchitis, asthma, con-
sumption, and all throat and lung affections ; also for digestive disorders
and wasting diseases. It soothes and heals the lungs and air passages,
promotes normal, healthy action of the digestive organs, and builds up
health and strength. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and agrees
perfectly with delicate stomachs. Of all Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, j
FINNEY’S
WONDERFUL
SALE.
The beautiful new building will
be a Fair for a month.
All the exquisite Costumes and
Millinery, all the dependable Sheet-
ings and Blankets, the Laces and
Ribbons, the Boots and Shoes, the
Dress Materials —everything will be
so reduced in price that, when you
have tasted of the bargain banquet,
you. will join fifty thousand others in
shouting “You can’t beat Finney’s !”
Write for a Sale Catalogue to-day,
madam, and save money. You
surely can.
FINNEY, ISLES 8 CO.,
LIMITED,
The Big Block. BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
“ Caber ” : If ib is of any interest to the
general public, I stand up to remark that I have
no sympathy with the Rip Van Winkles who
(according to B. 30/G/TO) want the Queensland
Government to tear after grants of land that fled
past them while they slept. During the ’7o’s
the land orders—Dr. Lang’s with the rest —that
the ancients dredged from their waistcoat pockets
were good currency, and worth their face value.
Half of Headington. Hill was purchased
by C. B. Fisher and G. H. Davenport with
land orders. It is true that during the preceding
couple of decades those orders were at an alarm-
ing discount, regarded as currency, and a £4O
order had a tough job to swap itself for a sove-
reign, but the wide-awakes who bought them up
made a good deal. The old bloques who dossed
on their orders between the passing of Macalister’s
Land<Act in 1866 and the close of the ’Bo’s ought
to “have something done for them” all right,
but whether it should be done with a brick or a
gun I can’t decide.
“S.R.”: The administration of the Queens-
land Wages Board Act by the Fhidston Govern-
ment begins to smell likeabarrelof disinterred cats,
and no amount of protest seems capable of shift-
ing the perfumery. Deputation after deputation
has waited upon the Premier and Minister Appel
to object to the partisanship shown by the grant-
ing over the head of the Wages Board and despite
its refusal, of permits to work at less than the
wage rate set down in an award. These were
meant for the benefit of old or infirm workers,
but now almost anybody can get them, and while
they are to be got the boss insists on his employees
applying for them. Still, the permit business is
precarious, and depends solely on the continuance
of the present Government; so Toryism fights its
hardest to prevent any new award being made.
The latest dodge is to delay the decision of a Board
by the resignation, one after the other, of the
employers’ representatives, and the worst threat
so far heaved by the Government is that “ that
sort of thing must come to an end.” Which
is definite in a sort of way, seeing that most things
must come to an end, but it is lacking in velocity.
And definiteness without velocity is like a dead
racehorse with its head cut off.
The Open Gateway.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There is still the empty and isolated North.”
—Bulletin.
rHERE are pleasant paling fences that are
overgrown ivith roses
Round the big, bright garden at the
back ;
But a gate is standing open that A ustralia never
closes.
And it's right upon the main front track.
There is talk of arm&d robbers that with stealthy
steps may creep,
Bent on rapine, blood and plunder, while Aus-
tralia lies asleep;
There’s a call to watch our treasures, there’s a
call to guard our shore,
Ere the burglar steal at midnight to our big front
door.
We need eyes upon the waters, we need legions
on the land,
Standing ready for the signal with a gun in every
hand,
But the thing that most is wanted is a little
common-sense,
Just to shut the open gateway, and to guard the
Northern fence.
Let us keep our home in safety, let us bolt and
bar the door,
Put our shutters on the window’s, and take care to
lock the store;
Tie the bulldog to the fowl-house, and, whatever
else may wait,
Be sure to put a padlock on the big front gate.
For ice have our paling fences that are overgrown
with roses
Round the big, bright garden at the back.
But a gate is standing open that Australia never
closes, >
And its right upon the main front track.
N.B.W.
D. M. W.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 9, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
What Calve is as a singer we do not know, but
the woman we have already had a peep of, and
that makes us eager for more. She is the most
irresistible mass of joyousness, the most daring
personification of wit. Thargomindah, my dear,
you know that I am not on the whole a tongue-
tied person. I generally have something to say,
and when I haven’t—well, I say it just the Same.
But the lady of the golden notes acts upon me
like a spell, and in her presence I can ppt up a
record of silence that would not disgrace the
ONE WAY OF LOOKING AT IT.
WORKMAN: “ Yer wants a copper to make up the
price of a pint , do yer?”
LOAFER: “If yer run spare one. mate."
WORKMAN: “Ever done a day's work in yer life?"
LOAFER: “ Well, can't, say I hare.”
WORKMAN: “ Well, here's yer copper. Yer never done a poor bloke, out of a job . anyhow."
tomb. I discovered this strange influence at the
Bellevue Hotel, where the diva has bun?
up her hat for the time being. Here I found the
songstress in the midst of an excited exchange of
joyous ideas with Miss Commyn, language mistress
at our Tec. College, and the French of the latter
was to Mrs. Calve as water to a thirsty December
soul on the Western plains. It was a pleasant
gathering—the Frenchwoman sparkling like the
sea in summer, the lady of the languages just as
bright, Nevin Tait with arms folded A la, Napoleon
the Great, and several yards of advance man
Talbot perched upon a brass-bound case holding
several thousand pounds’worth of jewellery, his
elongated legs tucked in out of the way of the
conversation. There was also the beauteous
Gasparri. I sat like the crane at the Zoo. Ihere
really was no possibility of doing anything else,,
for you couldn’t have got another word in with a
shot-gun. How much romance, I wonder, is
woven into that wonderful string of pearls that
encircles the throat of the human nightingale !
Aday later, just as we were feeling our best, there
arrived horrible intelligence to the effect that an
acute attack of laryngitis had smashed the Calve
concert, and it will take all Dr. Hopkins’s skill to
get the top note into form for Monday. Great is
the sorrow and disappointment of the multitude.
, j T . , , TT ,
A pretty-voiced maiden, Kate Wagner by
name, whose contralto has been raised frequently
and often in the interests of the local Musical
Union, has announced an engagement of a non-
musical (albeit, it is hoped, harmonious) nature to
Mr. P. J. Clark, who sings his love in a bass key
in the same choir. The match is an appropriate
one, and a tuneful blessing is herewith showered
upon the experiment.
Speaking of music reminds me that the “‘Dream
of Gerontius” is to be given by the Union.
Philip Newbury will be supported by Mrs. R.
Bell, a local soprano, with a voice full of sweet-
ness and promise. The Liedertafel concert will
have interest added to it by the violin playing of
Miss Olga Zichy Woinarski, of Melbourne, and the
lately-engaged lady afore mentioned.
Another successful concert, given last week,
was that by Miss Olive Clare Brown, a daughter
of the “Sporting” editor (“Rattler”) of the
Daily Mail. Miss Brown uplifts a bird-like
soprano, and trills like a colony of canaries.
Speaight, the Dickens exponent, landed here
this forenoon by the Manuka from the land of
the nigger puncher, and under the Tait Bros, will
tell a story or so of the great writer around these
parts. He looks as if he could tell stories with
anything of his weight. (Nothing libellous is in-
tended.)
At last the engagement of the Yeronga
widower, Mr. Brodie, and Miss M. Abbott, is
announced, and the hopes of Yeronga have gone
down to zero for keeps.
Minister Barnes, accompanied by a select party,
which included Mrs. Barnes, Mr. and Miss
Brady, Mrs. Denham, Mrs. Barlow and J. D.
Story, had a tea-party on the new Government
House lawn last week, just to see how the furni-
ture in the humpy fitted. The clan Macgregor
will move in on Monday. A gnome by the name
of Musgrave is already in possession of the office
and billiard-room.
Judge Miller, the best-liked and most-highly
esteemed man on the District Court Bench, has
passed over the bar, with “‘such a tide as
moving seems asleep.” He went by the name of
“the walking Judge,” for he was ever padding
the hoof, and was a constant visitor at Ascot,
where he followed the racing game with his
amused little smile, and chaffed his wife upon her
dead certs.- Mrs. Miller was a sister of Charlie
O'Reilly. Upon the bench, the late Judge was
known as a widely-read man who tempered jus-
tice with mercy at the right time, and came down
upon the undeserving with a thud. His death
will force Kidston’s hand, and the judicial
appointments, one or all of them, must now be
made without delay. Lukin is spoken of for the
Supreme position ; but it is probable that he will
not, after the recent Strachan case, get the
Courier support, which is said to be essential
with the Government just now. Why not try
another Lillev ?. Edwin, like his father, is a true
democrat and a thoroughly sound man. Or why
not our own Jimmy Blair? After all, brains
ought to have a show, according to Kidston’s own
utterances. Jimmy in the wig would be like a
dynamite cartridge, small but effective.
Another old identity passed from our ken on
Wednesday in the person of Mrs. Wm. Collin,
wife of the original captain of that ilk. Mrs.
Collin, who was a native of Somerset, arrived in
Sydney in 1854 and was married three years later.
She cabie to Queensland in the Ellen Collin, 44ft.
in length, after a voyage of three weeks. She
and her husband celebrated their golden wedding
recently.
There’s a fashion in horrors just as there is a
mode in hats. Just now murder and suicide are
‘“in.” The latest event concerned a Jap and his
unofficial wife in this city, who did the deed with
prussic acid. The note left by the woman simply
said that she was heart-broken, and it seems, in
the light of evidence (she decamped from a white
husband in Townsville three weeks ago, and
probably found the brown exchange below
sample), likely to have been true.
Then the harbor-master at Cairns was found
shot; and even sleepy Beaudesert had a shindy
to wake it up last week, when an armed man
pointed a revolver at the accountant (Collins)
of the local bank and requested him to “bail.”
while a pal, for reasons unknown, bored auger
holes in the back door. Collins refused to do as
bid, shot at his man, and escaped to arouse the
neighborhood. Meeting a zealous citizen, they
together stormed the office. Here a figure was
seen, and the zealous one promptly fired
and hit the town constable. The aim was good,
but the officer had a book in his breast pocket and
that just saved him. It wasn’t a Bible—only a
note-book. “Truly, a man may not die till the
fulness of his days.” The robbers escaped.
The wildest scare of all, however, is the rumor
of a case of well-defined leprosy in South Bris-
bane. The patient is a lad whose father is said
to be already an occupant of the lazarette. The
boy, although his case (allegedly) was so obvious
that his fellow-scholars objected to sit near him,
was not officially discovered until Friday, and
then he was carted off to Peel Island. According
to a high official, there is no truth in the story.
Miss Hughes and Mr. Boulton, of the Dudley
Bush Nursing scheme, have vanished into thin
air, and no one has seen a sign of them or got an
answer as to how the thing is to be done. How-
ever, the Chelmsford couple will be with us for
the Show', and will doubtless throw some light
upon the matter.
A small girl in the cemetery suburb of Toowong
went into a stationer’s shop this week and asked
for six penn’orth of “Dead paper.” The book-
man was puzzled, until the tot explained :
“Auntie is dead, and we want some dead paper
to write to uncle with.”
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Ex-Arch deacon Campbell, who some time
ago rejected sky-pilotage in favor of cotton-
growing, has come back from Europe with
the grateful aroma of much boodle about
his grip. His company has not only
acquired Dr. Thomatis’ Caravoniea estate
of 1000 acres, but an adjoining block of a
similar area. Upon these properties it will raise
the snowy bolls for the big Chemnitz spinnery in
Saxony, which has agreed to take all it can
produce for some years ahead. Stark, the head
and front of Chemnitz, says the Caravoniea
variety, a Queensland hybrid, is the best cotton
in the world. The new company is called Gos-
sypium Park, Ltd. This is the first genuine
attempt to establish what must eventually be-
come one of the Commonwealth’s greatest produc-
tive enterprises, for cotton will grow over about
two-thirds of this continent. Campbell has
brought back to Australia samples of cotton
goods made from the Caravoniea yarn. Captain
Mitchell Campbell, erstwhile of the Connaught
Rangers, has abandoned soldiering to assist in the
industry at Cairns, and there are other English
investors to follow. The ex-Archdeacon brought
with him from England the freedom of the city of
London, and orders for large quantities of Queens-
land timber ; also he did good for himself and the
State by introducing to Bull’s notice specimens
of the 135 species of gems which Bananaland
produces.


gunri p"
Forest Devil
Pulls Trees and
Stumps Out by
the Roots _.
This is the latest device for pulling- out trees and stumps. It is
small, compact, quickly adjusted and easily worked. The ropes
withstand a terrific strain—the tree or stump must come out
Illustrated Catalogue free.
This is the very latest and only fully patented “ Forest Devil ” in
the Commonwealth. Ask for illustrated Booklet.
Anyone infringing any of our Patent Rights (No. 6875) in regard to
the “ BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, which co'ver I, 2, 3 or more dreula?
rack wheels, either maker, seller or user, will be prosecuted.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
To Proprietors of CINEMATOGRAPHS!
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
Advice
Free.
Over 250,000 feet of Films are in our
stock ready for sale or hire—every foot
fresh, novel, interesting subjects.
And if you have any damaged Films
that are worth repairing, if possible at
all, we can do it for you.
Whatever you want we can supply—
New Machines, Films, parts and im-
provements.
We have competent
operators, give entertain-
ments anywhere, or will
hire out machines to re-
sponsible persons.
Write us for particulars—
we are one of the largest
Cinematograph dealers in
Australasia.
Nil
0®
©
©
0)
0
0
©
0®
WE HAVE IN STOCK COMPLETE COPIES OF KING EDWARD VII.
FUNERAL FOR SALE OR HIRE.
JERDAN’S (Formerly OSBORN 8 JERDAN),
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET, ROy "“™ EL , SYDNEY.
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
by the
tt
ROYAL PACKET.”
: i 4/
pA 111
mm
‘ '
• 4 ;. V..
- '
gUt;
mm-
' 1 ■ ■ ■ ■ i *• t *
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for
Java and Singapore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island and Dobo.
S.S. VAN LINSCHOTEN, 3500 Tons
Commander, J. GOEDHUIS.
Leaves Melbourne July 24; Sydney July 30; Brisbane August 2.
S.S. VAN WAERWYCK, 3500 Tons
Commander, T. L. ARNOLD.
Leaves Melbourne August 24; Sydney August 30; Brisbane September 2.
New Steamers specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins. Spacious promenade decks. English spoken
on board, and English Stewardess carried.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
Telephone 953 & 1332 City. 7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A Sound Commercial Proposition of National Importance.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
The Imperial Horse-Breeding 8 Pastoral Association, Limited.
Registered under Part I. of the Companies Act, 1891), New South Wales, whereby the liability of a Shareholder is limited to the amount of his Shares only.
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of £1 each.
PROPOSED PRESENT ISSUE of 50,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
THE DIRECTORS WILL MAKE NO ALLOTHENT OF SHARES UNTIL 20 PER CENT. OF THE FIRST ISSUE HAS BEEN APPLIED FOR.
P Breeding and Pastoral Syndicate, Limited (referred to hereinafter as “ the Vendors ”) its P* storafPropertv known Bhxk” t ml possible \f nd particularly to purchase and take over from the Horse-
upon the terms and conditions set out in a Memorandum of Agreement dated the 30 th da'of June 1910 madebetweenthivn rial n f ß t l ’ a "'.T 6 T 94 n.iles, situated in ihe Cloncurry District of Northern Queensland,
the purchasing Company), of the second part, and William Muggridge, a Trustee for and on behalf ofX’fl™! of! d k the one part, the Imperial Horse-Breeding and Pastoral Association, Ltd. (hereinafter called
50,000 Shares of £1 each to beheld in reserve to be issued in London, or elsewhere, on such terms as the Directors shall think St.
Pr °Thp S H°n7 a R D R ir ™ E AUSTRALIAN HOARD (controlling- and solely directing the Management):
The Hon. B. R O CONOR, M.L.C., Barnster-at-Law, Phdlip-street, Sydney; J. T. WEBB Esq. Rfversdale
Umaralla. Pastoralist; W.M FLEMING, Esq., Aberdeen, Pastoralist; WM. MUGGRIDGE, Esq’., Stock and
Staiton Journal, Sydney ; THOMAS FITZPATRICK, Esq., Erin Vale, Junee, Pastoralist : T. I. CAMPBELL
Esq., General Secretary Farmers and Settlers’ Association, Spring Street, Sydney ; D T SEYMOUR Fan Kv’
Commissioner of Police, Brisbane, Queensland; LONDON BOARD (to be appointed). ’ ’ ’
Bankers: QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
O “n M . f ,‘ ssrs ' H ls , tto^t ELL j a A ld , SON ’ Inco, 'Porated Accountants, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Solicitors: Messrs. HOUSTON and CO., 10 O’Connell Street, Sydney. J
Brokers: Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Secret^™ 1 ? mov'^^^ 8 ’ U> Bridge Sireet, Sydney. Queensland, To be established,
secretary . HOKACL SALMON, Chartered Accountant.
The only agreement entered into is that above referred to, and the original may be
at the office of the Company’s Solicitors, and all further information, plans, reports, etc.,
seen, and also a Copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association,
at Mr. Salmon’s Office, 19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE FOLLOWING LETTER FROM COL. SIR E. W. D. WARD, K.C.8., SECRETARY OF THE WAR OFFICE
SHOWS THE INTEREST TAKEN IN THE VENTURE BY THE HOME AUTHORITIES
116/General Number-5286 (Q.M.G. 4).
War Office, London, S.W T ., 3rd June, 1909.
Government, and that a copy of your letter and Prospectus will be forwarded to the inX Office for their in-
i o mi at/i on.
I am to add that the scheme appears to he on thp right lines, and in every way deserving- of success.
I have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient servant, (Sgd.) E. W. D. WARD.
LETTER FROM A. MESTON, Esq.,
Queensland Government
Sir, —Referring to Haslingderi, it
specially adapted for horse-breeding,
and stamina and sound feet. It lies i
free from floods and droughts, there
Queensland suffered the record drouj
world for bone, muscle and stamina.
Intelligence and Tourist Bureau, 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, 12th April, 1910.
seems to me your people were specially fortunate in securing an area so
lhat limestone tableland is the best of all geological formations to give bone
n a remarkably healthy climate, with quite sufficient rainfall, and is equally
being abundance of grass and water there when two-thirds of the rest of
of a , ew J' ears a £o. That country will produce horses equal to anv in the
Sincerely yours, (Sgd.) A. MESTON, Director.
EXTRACT FROM REPORT BY THE HON. W. VILLIERS BROWN, M.L.C.
I do not think you could find in Western Queensland a safer run in drought time.
EXTRACTS FROM REPORT BY DONALD GILLESPIE.
HASLINGDEN, CLONCURRY, QUEENSLAND.
694 SQUARE MILES. RENT: £433 15s. PER ANNUM. LEASE: 35 YEARS.
x?^TJi e £v, they a,e Particularly free from disease; NO TICKS (THEY WILL NOT LIVF
HERE), PLEURO HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN ON IT, NOR REDWATER. I saw many horses and cattle bred
there, and they are first-class quality 7, good bone, feet and constitution.
not wanted for salt? Wh ° ®° f Haslingden there are a number of vines and shrubs of a saline quality, and stock have
follows i f- eStiir ‘ ated that 0n an expenditure of some £49 > 000 fche Profits (after the first clear year) should be as
Ist year
2nd year
3rd year
£15,510
£25,510
£27,605
SSffi SSSKf 1 55
SrX p.Si.S; S. *•“ c ° n! ‘ ,n '’“ d - wl " > ,,ovide “» b " lk *!»<•«>•. «* *i»
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the DIRECTORS IMPERIAL HORSE-BREEDING AND PASTORAL ASSOCIATION, LTD. 19 Brid»
otrpet, Sydney. * ,
Gentlemen,—l herewith £... ■ , being a deposit of Five Shillings per Share on
Shares upon i
And I hereby
the further su ......... ,
e n r . S , hare ’, if and as required ar, intervals of not less than one month, as the Directors may deem advisable!
And I authorise you to register me as the holder of the said Shares.
Name (in full)
Mr., Mrs., or Miss.
Address
Occupation or Description
Ordinary Signature
Date
EXCHANGE TO BE ADDED TO COUNTRY AND INTERSTATE CHEQUES.
. ..1910.
PLEASE WRITE
DISTINCTLY.
Full Prospectus, Form of Application for Shares and any other information may be obtained from The Secretary, HORACE SALMON, 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


CLEANSED
WITH
m:
rt
r
jj
y
CUTCURA
SOAP
Means skin health and bodily
purity in infancy and childhood
and freedom, in the majority of
cases, from torturing, disfiguring
affections of the skin and scalp in
after life; Those who value a
clear skin, soft, white hands, a
clean, wholesome scalp and live,
glossy hair will find that Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment, realizes every expectation.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London. 27.
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la Chaussee
d'Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India,
B. K. Paul, Calcutta; China, Hong Kong Drug Co.;
Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Tokio; So Africa, Lennon,
Ltd., Cape Town, etc.: U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., 133 Columbus Avc., Boston.
Q3J~ Post-free, 32-page Cuticura Book, “How to
Preserve, Purify and Beautify the Skin and Hair."
A. BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION IN THREE MINUTES
PULCHRIT,
A GENUINE SKIN TONIC, AND SUBSTITUTE FOR
FACE CREAMS and ALL OTHER SKIN SPECIFICS.
(1) Pulchrit is the only powder which produces
amazing effects after being washed off. (2) If used
as ordinary powder (dry), lightly rubbed into the skin,
it becomes equally invisible. (8) It produces a dazzling,
beautiful skin, and idealises the complexion. (4) It im-
parts to the roughest skin a velvety softness, and pro-
duces that fascinating appearance which is SO much
admired. (5) It is indispensable for the culture of. the
hand. (6) Instead of clogging the pores it cleanses them,
removing all blemishes, such as wrinkles, freckles, red-
ness, yellow skin, pimples, etc. (7) It creates a feeling
of comfort and ease by neutralising perspiration ; there-
fore indispensable at balls, theatres, etc. (8) It stands
for health and hygiene of the skin.
Price 45., post free, from the wholesale agent for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street,
Brisbane, Queensland ; or a sample will be forwarded on
receipt of Is. in stamps or postal note. [2
A SAFE
FAT
REDUCER
There have been
thousands of dif-
ferent methods
tried for reducing superfluous flesh, but most
are entire failures, or else lastingly harmful.
“FATCURE"
is the only safe and lasting cure for obesity.
It is pleasant to take, and if desired can be
taken secretly. In many cases 5 lbs. a week
has been removed, with perfect health fol-
lowing the reduction. After you have been
using “Fatcure" a few days your
breathing becomes considerably easier—the
pressure around your heart becomes notice-
ably less, and your general health rapidly
improve:. Send us a 2d. stamp and we
will post you a Free Trial Sample
and our interesting descriptive Booklet —
“Plain Talk on Obesity.” Send To-day.
612
mti
w
Watworth Co., Suite
Linden Court, Casllereagh St., Sydney.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold hy All Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
Lin.nwi
O. & Q
11
DO
900
O
QjQ
GOLF BALLS
As a result of a recent visit to
England of our Works’ Managing
Director, very considerable improve-
ments have been made in our
FLUE (Red Dot) GOLF BALL,
and recent tests have proved that
it compares favorably with the best
imported brands.
Try one for yourself.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And all States.
LEEMING’S for
Ladies’ Footwear
of STYLE and QUALITY.
;l
DERBY SHOE,
PRICE, lG l 6
The Shoe illustrated is one of the latest models—
can be had with either pump or welted sole—just
the Shoe for Winter Wear. PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Send for our Booklet, “Shoelight.”
LEEMING’S Boot Stores,
109 swanston St., Melbourne : 257-259 Bourke
St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St., Prahran; 1 & 3
Errol St., North Melbourne.
y V'
THE STRONG
and Vigorous Man will always succeed
where the weak, nervous and debilitated
man must fail. We restore health,
strength and vitality with Nature’s
remedies. Our advice is free to all.
HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Established 27 Years.
An EDISON
Phonograph
Ten Records,
complete, for
and
£4.
Here is a splendid Phonograph offer which you
should not miss
The EDISON “ GEM ” COMBINATION PHONO-
GRAPH (plays both Two- and Four-Minute
Records), complete with SIX AMBEROL (Four-
Minute) RECORDS and FOUR STANDARD (Two-
Minute) RECORDS, for £4.
Any Edison dealer will supply you, and you
can have your choice of Records from the
thousands included in our lists.
If you do not know the address of a store
handling Edison Phonographs and Records, write
us direct, and we will mail you complete Cata-
logues and the latest Lists of Records.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia,
Ltd.,
Dept, B, Kent Street, Sydney.
‘•LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Golds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
a
$
&
&
7'V
9ard
of
rf ?ADE
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has .withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe S Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
am
8.5.f1. RIFLES
SERVICE MATCH,
MINIATURE MATCH,
SPORTING.
Just Look Down the Following List of
B.S.A. Rifles & Sights.
Pick out the lines that are most likely to interest
you, and write for a descriptive booklet, mention-
ing' the name of your gun or rifle dealer:—
B.S.A. LEE=ENFIELD .303 MATCH
TARGET RIFLE, as used by most of
the crack shots in England and Australia.
B.S.A. LEE-ENFIELD .303 MATCH
TARGET BARRELS, for fitting to
ordinary .303 Service Rifles.
B.S.A. WAR OFFICE MINIATURE
RIFLE, .44 bore, single shot or maga-
zine, a perfect service rifle in miniature.
.S.A. No. 2 MODEL MINIATURE
RIFLE, .22 bore, latest bolt action,
unsurpassed for miniature range and
sporting work.
B.S.A. MARTINI SPECIAL MINIA-
TURE MATCH RIFLE, .22 bore, with
extra heavy barrel, latest aperture sights,
etc. ; a perfect “ Possible” Producer.
B.S.A. IMPROVED AIR RIFLE, .177
or .22 bore ; the most remarkable weapon
in the world.
B.S.A. LATEST NO. 8 APERTURE
SIGHT, for miniature rifles; can he
fitted to any make or model.
B.S.A. COMBINATION! TARGET
SIGHTS, with ring or tube.
Watch future advertisements in this paper for
hull particulars of each of the above , or write to
D. Y. RENNIE, Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.,
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
THE WORLD’S BEST.
The Inky Way.
Thus Professor Edward A. Ross, of Wisconsin Uni-
versity, in the American Review, April, 1910: “On the
outbreak of a justifiable street car strike the newspapers
were disposed to treat it in a sympathetic way. Suddenly
they veered and became unanimously hostile to the
strikers. Inquiry shows that the bis: merchants had
threatened to withdraw their advertisements unless the
newspapers changed their attitude." Come to think of
it, The Bulletin wouldn’t be surprised if the same sort of
thing- calamitated in Australia now and then.
* * * *
“ Pitman So Samuel Oook has taken a holiday at last.
For the half a century that he was on the S. M. Herald
he couldn’t be persuaded by the Fairfaxes to take a real
holiday. He knew a thing or two, did Samuel ; and
amongst the things he knew, inside out, were the Fair-
faxes. Whilst he was on the spot they were all he
could wish ; they recognised the value of his ser-
vices; it was he, in fact, that made the paper
what it is. But Sam Cook realised that, the moment
his back was turned, some wily person would easily
induce the thrifty millionaires to believe that they
could get twice as good a general manager at half the
screw. And so it happened. When Sam was entertained
on the occasion of his jubilee of service, which was also
the eve of his departure on a world tour, there wasn’t a
word said about that being the last time he would meet
the Herald employees as one of themselves. He cer-
tainly didn’t know it, and it was not until he returned
from his holiday that he was informed of the decision
which had been arrived at in his absence. The old gentle-
man took the blow bravely. He ought to have been pre-
pared for it; the survival of the cheapest is a great doc-
trine. Newspaper men who knew Sam Cook found him
always straignt and honest. He was kindness personified.
The Herald observed a deep silence as to the sever-
ance of his connection with the office, and the leader
about him was merely piffle re journalists as a class. It
might apply almost as well to the gifted gentleman who
wrote it as to Samuel Cook, for, with the exception of a
sentence or two at the beginning and end, it had no par-
ticular reference to him. The Telegraph notice was a
bit better, Editor Ward descending for the moment from
the contemplation of his exalted position as a D.O.L. to
remember the time when he was Cook’s subordinate.
If there were such a thing as a prize for the most un-
dis'guisedly Tory paper in Australia, the dishonor
would, or should, be unanimously awarded to the Pas-
toralists’ Review. This bloated magazine is, asitsname
indicates, published in the interests of the squatters;
and a perusal of its columns would lead the casual ob-
server to conclude that no people, bar squatters, live in
the Commonweal h. In a certain way the Review is en-
titled to praise. It scorns to sit on a rail, and makes no
secret of its hatred of everything outside a sheep and
cattle station. Its last issue was a model one. In the
course of a few pages it —
(1) Cursed the proposal to have State-owned steamers
for over-sea work.
(2) Condemned the demands of the Australian Workers'
Association.
(3) Appealed for private ownership of railways.
(4) Attributed the failure of the recent Westralian loan
to the Labor party.
(5) Stated that the abolition of the Kanaka in Queens,
land “may yet prove to be Australia’s ruin."
(6) Denounced the proposed export duty on hides.
(7) Alluded joyfully to the fact that, in Europe-
“ women do most of the work in the fields, and look un-
commonly well and happy on it."
There is very little hope for a paper that has got down
to this level; for if there is one thing that the decent-
minded white man, in this country especially, sets be-
fore himself as an ideal, it is the keeping of his women-
folk from doing the work of horses and navvies. But the
fatuous Review, whose wealthy readers never work them-
selves, either in the harvest field or anywhere Else, is a
whale for the other fellow (and his wife) being kept going,
* * * *
“Caber”: “The Snake’s” par in a recent issue re-
minds me that other papers besides the Croydon (Q.) one
mentioned have been reduced to publishing on brown
paper. I was running a local thunderer during the ’9O
flood, and there were 14 creeks and rivers and 150 miles
of mud between the railway station, where our supply of
paper was, and the office, where it ought to have been. We
were reduced to a ream of poster paper—it doesn’t take
many reams to provide the issue of a country journal, and
the only colors we could muster were green and buff. It
was the colors that raised the real trouble. VVe exercised as
much caution as we could in the time, but at least one
beautiful green copy reached a subscriber with a good
old Sligo name, who had a terrible derry on Pius,
or whoever was running the Vatican at the
date. Next day he (Sligo, not Pius) was in the office,
bright and early, threatening blue Sheol, and it wasn’t
until we were dead certain that he would never take the
rag again that we dared empty him out. Then three of
us grabbed him, and as he went rocketing through the-
door I raised the only Catholic war-cry I could think of—
“ Dan O’Connor and a White Australia.” When we were
through with the poster paper we reduced the size of th
eminent publication and appeared on tea-paper, and the
following week there was nothing for it but to use up
brown wrapping paper. We managed to clamber into
print somehow; but just before we got our supply
through we were negotiating with the local paper-
hanger for a few rolls of wall-covering.
* * * *
Alex, Frazer, one of the best-known pressmen in New
South Wales and Maoriland, steps out of a groove where
he has worn out a lot of pens in 22 years,’and will de-
part in August for Canada, United States and Britain to
shake up the Australian cable service for the big dailie-.
For 31 years Frazer has been hurling information along
the wires for the M.L. Press Association, and since 1888
has been stationed at Sydney-; and what he doesn’t
know of all sides of the game would take too long to
find out. The appointment is undoubtedly the result of
the recently established independent cable service which
has skinned the old service several times in the past few
years, notably with its rush wire on the death of Edward
VIL i: lt is practically certain that instead of-operating
s dely from London, as at present, the old combination
will in the near future post a man at Vancouver or
’Frisco to ti-- messages to the deep-sea lines addressed to :
this continent.
* * * *
“A.V.”: I claim to have discovered the oldest Albion
press, in good working order, in Australia. The animal
prints the Delta Advocate at Ayr(N.Q.) every week, and
does its duty well. It is 72 years old. The old pres* is
’f.ie most profitable article in the country printing office,
type gets swept out of the back door, and the editor goes
to the cemetery, and the proprietor drifts in to .various
kinds of decay ; but the press sticks to its job, and, given
-fair treatment, should he able to print the rag respect-
ably for a century or so.
A VISION OF GLORY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(With apologies to Grant Hervey.)
Lo ! the thunder walks before me, and archangels bend-
ing o’er me
Fan my temples with their pinions as they sing their
songs of praise ;
And the battle-smoke uplifting shows sky-ambulances
drifting,
Loaded down with shrieking Fatmen who’ve been
wounded by my lays ;
And the cowards and the traitors, and the other bad per-
taters,
Motor,’ howling, down to Sheol past my palaces and bars,
While an angel ex-barmaiden wanders by with incense
laden
Yea ' with fragrant incense laden, and a pint-pot full of
stars.
Out of Sheol cometh hooting and some useless haystack-
shooti ng,
But I sternly stride uncaring, as the ill-aimed bullets fly,
To the goal that is not alien to a —(Here we are !)—Aus-
tralian !
Yea ! a resolute Australian, and my boot-heels crack the
sky ;
All the firmament is riven, and distracted planets, driven
From their orbits like wild rabbits on an angel-squatter’s
| run,
; Down in gloomy corners huddle till the place is in a
m uddle,
And 1 go and fry a sausage o’er the embers of the sun !
N.S.W.
GRANT O. LORD.


For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10/6 pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion— protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
■‘VR.
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
paiticularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a. light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
madein a minute bysimplyadding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant!
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loft us Streets, SYDNEY.
m
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
IMOIM-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the IS.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. -Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Inca,ll descent "Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Uidinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
BRANDT DE LUXE.
THE LATEST ACETYLENE BURNER,
THE BRANDT DE LUXE
Gives the most light and the least trouble. No metal
arms to warp, only the best lava used in the manufac-
ture. Solid hexagon base, will not crush when screwed
on with pliers. \
Send us 10/- and we will forward SAMPLE
PARCEL OF ASSORTED BURNERS. *
Booklets on Air Gas and Acetylene Gratis.
BRANDT BROS.’ LAMP HOUSE,
197-199 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; and 236 Pitt St.. Sydney.
For Winter Comfort-buy a Hot Water Bottle
k;
Prices from
4/9
each.
There is nothing' that so adds to one’s
eomfort on a cold Winter’s night as a Hot
Water Bottle. We can supply you with
the best at a reasonable price, for, not-
withstanding the recent great rise in
rubber, we, having bought largely before
the rise, are able to supply at prices
20 per cent, less than are being asked
elsewhere.
We also stock covers in all sizes.
We send to all parts of the Common-
wealth.
Write for Catalogue “ B.” It illustrates
and describes rubber goods stocked by us.
Novelty Rubber Co.,
250 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
STEVENS
Famous Time-Honored Rifles
Are the WORLD’S STANDARD!
The London Championship was won at the Beckton Rifle Meeting,
April 12th, 13th and 14th, 1909, by J. Clarke, of the Southfields
R i( ,e cub, usin £ a STEVENS IDEAL RIFLE.
Write for Catalogue to
ORDER
STEVENS
FROM YOUR
DEALER.
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens - Pope Cata-
logues. [3
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “Th®
Bulletin ” Office
THE DEMON OF DRINK.
HAS HE
GOT YOU ?
Drunkenness, the curse of so many homes, has for
years bullied scientists, but now a remedy has been
found. Dr. Shaw’s Anti-Alcohol (Registered by the
Govts, of Vie. and N.S. VV.)is a certain cure—is harm-
less, andean be };iven secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call. Dr. Shaw’s Establish-
ments, 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1164 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. f 2
UNDER VICE-REGAL-
l'
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161 KIND ST., SYDNEY,between Elizabeth &Gastlereagh Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Fringes, from 7s. fid.
TR.Y OUR. GLORIA HAIR TONIC. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Telephone 2138 Central. Country Orders Promptly Attended To.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” carbide:.
Addresses of Merchants distributing l it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
a
«5
nf
I
l-±
?L
&
The FALKINER-BOLL
PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINE C°
Our
• • •
Electric
———■■■■■——D
kShearing' Machines
INCLUDING ' THE LATEST INVENTION, the
Four and Six Stand Portable Shearing and Crutching Plant.
ARE NOW BEING SHOWN UNDER WORKING CONDITIONS at
OUR AGENTS’ PREMISES AS FOLLOW
South Australia—H. C. Richards, 6& 8 Blyth St., Adelaide. Queensland —Ruthning Electrical Installation Co. Ltd.
Tasmania-A. E. Evershed, George St., Launceston. New Zealand- R. P. M. Manning, Hereford St., Christchurch,
k... West Australia—J. H. Noble, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Representative in Sydney—G. W. Hellicar, Lombard Chambers, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HEAD OFFICE MELBOURNE, 103 and 105 WILLIAM STREET.


ROYAL MERCEDES
X
THE ROYAL MERCEDES.
(The Exclusive Car)
Owned by every Crowned
Head in Europe, and the
Nobility of the World.
The MERCEDES Car is
known by everyone to stand
by itself, and is without
doubt the finest ear money
can buy. Year in and year
out it sets the fashion to the
motoring world. If you want
the best car that money can
buy, well there is only one
car for you, and remember
that although the Mercedes
is by far the most expensive
car in ihe world, we sell them
for less than other cars of the
same power on the market
here. Why? because we are
satisfied with a fair profit.
B.vS.A. CARS (Birmingham Small Arms Co.)
Undoubtedly the very best English car manufactured. The firm who manufacture these ears have a world-
famous reputation for workmanship and quality of material used in the manufacture of their products.
S. Co A. T, (Societa Ceirano Automobili Torino)
The Italian car that is designed and manufactured by that motor genius Ceirano, and the only car in
the world that has a reliable pneumatic self-starter and tyre inflater. See the new 15-h.p. S.O.A.T.
before deciding on a car.
THE, “COMMER” COMMERCIAL CAR.
British-made the most substantial, powerful and economical motor lorry made, owned by most of the
leading firms in England ; and all firms that have bought these cars have given repeat orders. We can
Drove to intending purchasers that the COMIIER is doing work without the slightest hitch that many
other Commercial cars have broken down at. Call and see us and have the COMMER shown you.
The Reliable DAYTON MOTOR BUGGY.
A Motor Car on buggy w'heels, 20-h.p. 2-cylinder water-cooled engine, dual ignition, Bosh magneto.
We only ask you to see and try the DAYTON before deciding. T * -
If you will do this, we have your order.
Motor Body Building Department
We would like the trade, and everyone interested in this
class of work, to inspect our up-to-date plantof machinery
and factory. We are in a position to turn out the best
work at the lowest cost, and in the shortest time. Give
us your orders for this class of work ; we guarantee to
give you satisfaction.
MOTORIES LIMITED,
280 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 4902 Central. Body Building Dept., 470 Paddington.
COMMERCIAL CARS,
LTD.,
$
See the CHALLENGE REINFORCED INNER TUBE. It prevents blow-outs, and allows of old
and discarded covers to be used. By using them you will reduce your tyre bill by more
blown-out
than half.
m\)
ty.
TC
a-
iU ° v
you ton
IDE*
in comm-
on-
Rim
TOD
•THE-
OILVCRIOWn-RUDDCR- C?
• 279 ■ GCOR£>C5 r -SYPnCY •
Mode! “ T ” Touring Car, 4-cyi., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials: —
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
;
A MODERN HAIR STAIN
This preparation is permanent and prompt in effect—will not
wash nor rub off—does not discolor linen—will restore grey or
faded hair to a natural brown or black color—is perfectly harmless
and not unpleasant to use.
4s. 6d. and Bs. 6d. Posted 6d. extra.
ANDREW McGEE,
Sydney’s Leading: Tobacconist and
Centlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 and 7 Castlereag'h Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney.
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors
SIR GFORGF. WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE, J P.
G STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers-IWE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
Dl
* **
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
“Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
&n»o
2^4
Terms—One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered FOB any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write lor Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: "AVIATION. BRIbTOL.” Codes—A i, A.8.C., and MOREING.
:v:
/—i—l
/— / — !
iii \ \
X\THY make yourself uncomfort-
able with an old-fashioned
corset when you can have the latest
physique effect and be comfortable
with our New Directoire Corset.
n A pudding bag with a string around it. n An
old-time description which applies to many
figures today —thanks to the ordinary corset.
This "pudding
string" effedt is
bad both for
health and for
style.
The corset to
wear is one
which gives that
smooth flowing
physique that
CANADIAN
CORSET
holds one together comfortably healthfully. . ....
On these lines Madam the new D & A Directoire Corset will be a
revelation to you, as to style, comfort, health,—it will give you a physique no
other corset can give. . . ~ ,
We spent thousands of dollars perfecting this corset. Our designer studied
correct styles where they are created—Rue de la Paix; where they are
worn —the tea rooms Rue de Rivoli, the race-track at Longchamps, the
promenades where the leaders of the fashionable world congregate—and
finally, moulded on the human foim, we evolved the D& A Directoire. Ask
your draper to show it.
THE DOMINION CORSET COMPANY, QUEBEC, CANADA. A ~5
jhkl
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest ?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat ?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
• A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
HAVE
YOU?
Whe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE ,6d.
PACKET OF TEN sd.


“ Yarrum ” gives a tip to the Rechabites :
Said Simpson : “ It was 10 years ago, and I was getting
to the dipsomaniac stage. The old people tried every-
thing to break me off it, and as a last chance sent me to
an uncle who had a farm on the Richmond River
(N.S.W.), to see if distance from temptation would lessen
desire. Uncle never touched it, but, despite that, he
was a decent old sort. I hadn’t been on the farm long
(and was feeling anyhow) when a publican, who was the
horse-doctor of the neighborhood, came along to fix up a
draught mare that was suffering from gripes. Uncle and
the vet. had a long yarn, and when the latter was leaving
I went, by Uncle’s directions, as far as the slip-
rail to put him (the vet.) on his way. Before parting
he produced a bottle, and invited me to have a drop. It
was gin—a drink I never liked—but it was grot). ‘Put
the bottle in your pocket,’ he said. That night will
never be forgotten by uncle’s family or by me. As soon
as I got inside I went off to bed with the bottle to have
a quiet drunk, but I wound up by having the drunk of
10 devils. Somewhere about 1 a.m. I rushed out to the
woodhouse, arrested the axe, and commenced to wreck
the premises amid the shrieks of women and the curses
of strong men awakened from their sleep. I chased the
family for two miles to the nearest neighbor’s place,
and next day a search party found me bogged in a
swamp into which I had driven all the ducks and geese
and the griped mare. When I came out of the asylum I
learned that the stuff the amateur vet. had given me was
really intended for the sick horse. He said it was a good
job I had got into holts with the swamp, or I would have
chopped up the whole neighborhood. I haven’t had a
drink since ; in fact, I wouldn’t be seen dead with a pub.
Somebod3 T suggested that it was a put-up job between
Uncle and the vet., but I don’t believe it. If I did I'd
mingle their blood.”
“The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” —The “Stockport
Remedy ” for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
T(lV*Mk^r
THe Bad Writer's Pen.
No. 539, BALL-POINTED. Sixpence Per Box,
To He had of an Stationers, or ORMISTTTN & GLASS, NEWGATE St., LONDONv
a
"GRO- A-MO" forces growth of moustache and
whiskers. Bottles, as., post free.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.P.O. Melbourne.
‘ COAGULINE, ’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘ TENASITINE ’
-dements for breakages, manufacturing:purposes, etc.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE U.S.A. SQUIKT PISTOL.
©
m
will stop the most
vicious dog' (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
wateh men, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/3, or post free
anywhere for 3/-
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Cati be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere {or 1/2.
h
THE SEBACKROSCOPE, or Detective’s Assistant.
I IOF THE /•
No. 73.
Attach to the
eye in the same
manner as the
common mag-
nifying- lens in
use bj' watch
repairers,being
careful to turn
the small open-
ing in square
tube to the
outside, that
is, away from
the nose. When
placed to the eye you can see what is taking place
behind and in front of you'at the same time. No
need lo wish for eyes in the back of your head, as
with this article you can observe all that occurs in
that direction without even turning your head. You
will find lots of fun in owning a" Sebackroscope.
Made of hard rubber, and finished in an excellent
manner. Price, securely packed and posted to any
address free on receipt of 1/-
“ PICKITOUT.” A perfect Puzzler
to the uninitiated. JUST OUT.
The Effect—Three cardsare shown
—the ace, deuce and three of
hearts. Someone is requested to
pick out the ace when the cards
are placed on the table. But it is
absolutely impossible to pick it
out. Price complete, with full in-
structions, 7d. post free anywhere.
IBS
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Offlee.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
jL?L?_- B|,ar !^jLLStreet, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
9
FOR
INFANTS,
INVALIDS,
AND THE
AGED.
FOOD
Wherever there is a
case of enfeebled diges-
tion, whether from ad-
vancing age, illness, or
general debility, there is a
case for Benger’s Food.
When the stomach becomes weakened, the digestion of ordinary food
becomes only partial, and at times is painful, little of the food is assimilated,
and the body is consequently insufficiently nourished. This is where Benger’s
Food helps. It contains in itself the natural digestive principles, and is quite
different from any other food obtainable.
All doctors know and approve of its composition, and prescribe it freely.
The British Medical Journal sa.ys : “ Benger’s Food has, by its excellence, established a reputation of its own.”
BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere. 831
Schute, Bell & Co.
LIMITED.—
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
A
OLD 7
ORKNEY
WHISKY
(<i3> mm
/T
A
W'
M
T;
3
" The Whisky of
Age 6 Flavour,”
Made in the
old-time way.
' - ■:% ' ' •. : ;
And We hold a
10 Years 9 Supply
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROM NESS DISTILLERY,
ORKNEY. SCOTLAND.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boofc by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybooe, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. ’new
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
gh
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning' mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. HowMcDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio,'Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Wayb acks, Is 2d.
All these prices Poet Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only;.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ul', Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1#
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. 'Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits or Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time SoNGS.(words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


MICK SIMMONS
Hay market, Sydney, N.vS.W.
S6e LEADING
HOUSE
CANT
B
BEAT
Goods
Fishing Tacßle &. Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods menrrored on aside front of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
ANGLERS!
The Australasian Fishing Tackle Catalogue
IS NOW READY.
By far the Largest and Most Comprehensive Fishing Tackle
Catalogue ever published in the Southern Hemisphere.
Full of interest from first page to last.
Every disciple of Walton should possess it,
We know that YOU would like a copy.
CALL OR WRITE for one—GRATIS AND POST FREE
... FROM ...
Mick Simmons,
“THE Fishing Tackle
House of Australasia,”
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
n-ps-v* 31!
,9 tfraKJK
< rri
H
W--<^T&W-K
f-/t^r--SM = 3
r Jsojjs! > - l gims
m
■jumi «'iii "wi inn iH«mi t iimi i ii''.ii!iiu ■!»•' ish lie jmrnii,jiiii' , ini[ | | 7
=©s
sess*®#
gitiihfi, aitajuins
iay
SSE
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects :
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “S” and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
I,et us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors). Public f-ervice, Sanitary
Inspectors’, or any other examination.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing; Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to opf*n and operate Roller Rinks. — Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co.. 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, 0.8.A; Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain ;md Ireland—Messrs J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
The same blade
but a new edge every
morning
Don’t
confuse
the
Auto Strop
with any
other
Safety
Razor.
To strop the Auto Strop Safety Razor, insert the
strop through the razor itself—move the razor to and
fro—the blade reverses automatically at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself—in an instant you have a keen edge. The
Aluio'Sirop
Razoß
is far quicker, handier, and cheaper than a no-stropping razor—
gives an easy and luxurious shave —obviates the continual expense
for new blades necessary with ordinary safety razors.
25/-
and no The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor!
further one dozen specially tested lancet-steel blades; one horsehide strop; the whole
expense contained in handsome leather case, size 2 in. by 3! in.
Sold by all high-class dealer*. You see it everywhere.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto. Collins Street, Melbourne, and
222, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Prompt Relief
; from Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
S? JACOBS
OIL
Sold everywhere.
jy
I«aiSTBWKP.
TWAPg MARK,
Look for this Trade
Mark. It appears in
red on every Bottle of
genuine 3 in One Oil.
If you don't get 3 in One
you don’t get the First,
the Best and the only
oil for Lubricating,
Cleaning and Polishing
Write for free sample to
REID a REID (Dept A 1.
Australasian Representa-
tives— Wellington,
New Zealand. J
Ladies’ and Gent’s Watches FREE.
S
f=i
Test your Size.
Send us your Number.
Solid Sterling Silver
Rings FREE
-
o)f\
IF THEY FIT YOU.
N9l
N? 2
N? 3
They are not made of brass, tin or white metal, but are
Guaranteed to be PURE STERLING SILVER through*
out, STAMPED and WARRANTED, and are sold retail
from 2s 6d to 4s 6d at all jewellers. THESE RINGS ARE
FREE IF THEY FIT YOU.
HOW TO WIN ONE.
Out «ut the inside of the Rings marked No. 1. N 0.2, and
No. 3, and try on any finger of either hand, forward us
the number of the one that fits your finger, and we will
immediately forward one of these SOLID SILVER RINGS
as
MOTHER
'///I'M?
5^
KIA-ORA
FREE. With the ring we will send you also FREE 12 of our NAME of MOTTO BROOCHES (as illustratedlfor
Distribution Among Your Friends. These Brooches, whinh are very strongly made (acid proof), and unique in
design, are sold Sydney Price 2s. each, and WE GUARANTEE THEM to be the BEST VALUE IN BROOCHES
EVER PLACED ON THE MARKET.
All D V«.« t/v Dn is to place these Brooches among your friends and collect Is. from
All W e Kequire lOUto U O each _ Eeturn us tha 12s. collected, and We Will Send You FREE
A RELIABLE WATCH and CHAIN (Lady’s or Gent’s)
OR ANY OTHER PRE SENT FROM OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST which we will send with the Brooches.
Remember, We Require No Money
and the 12 Brooches by return mail, postage paid, at our own expense. We know you will HAVE NO TROUBLE
in SELLING THESE BROOCHES, owing to their Excellent Value, or we would not go to the expense of sending
them. We send them out at our own risk, and if you are unable to sell the 12 we will reward you according
to the number disposed of by you upon you returning us the balance unsold.
All letters must be
addressed, direct to
the Sole Manufac-
turers,
Jewellery Supply Co.
Pitt-st, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.


I'lm, i
Ilf''"lH
tiKI.
Pm
sn
£33
CMffl
i \
Coughs, Colds, Sore Throat.
AT THIS SEASON of damp weather, cold, searching
** winds and frost, you should guard againt throat
and chest troubles by taking Peps. No medicine
brings such prompt relief, exerts such an invigorating
influence, or so speedily and thoroughly relieves coughs,
colds and chest complaints as Peps. You simply
place a Peps tablet on the tongue, and breathe deeply
the rich medicinal fumes wl ich arise as the tablet
dissolves. These wonderiul Peps fumes reach every
part of the lungs, soothe all inflammation and
irritation in the bronchial tubes, subdue even the
most obstinate cough, destroy the germs of disease,
and make breathing easy and natural. With a
box of Peps always kept handy the task of
defying the perils of July weather is easy
|j v and simple. •
%n
CONSTANT COUGHING
CURED BY REPS.
“ For about eight years
I suffered from colds every
winter,” says Mr. E.
Mason, of Frederick Street,
Wellington, N.Z. “I used to
cough all day and night long, which
reduced me to a perfect wreck. I tried
many so-called cough cures, with little
relief. So much benefit did I derive from
Peps that I determined to give them a fair
trial, and after a steady course I was com-
pletely cured. I am delighted at the efls-
- of Peps.”
SEVERE BRONCHITIS
perfectly CURED.
“ 1 a «n now 57 years of age,”
says Mrs. C. Hooper, of Mel-
bourne Street, N, Adelaide,
“ and for nine months suf-
fered from severe bronchitis. At
first the cough was but slight, hut
it grew worse and became so had
at length that I had to get up in
the night and sit by the fire. I
had a nasty pain in the chest, and was greatlv
alarmed at the blood which used to streak the phlegm I
brought up. I had medical treatment without result,
seeing' that .Peps were a proved cure for lung troubles 1
tried them. They gave me instant relief and quite
cured me.”
The above eloquent testimony of the powerful efficacy of Peps for chest and lung complaints is proof
of the unique superiority of these wonderful breathable tablets over drug-laden “ cough cures"and
mere lozenges The pure pme-air essences of Peps not only cure, but safeguard you from coughs ami
V upon hiring at night andbefafe
THE TRDE THROAT, CHEST 8 LUNG REMEDY.
gh
Peps, in an improved scientific manner, provide a natural cure for all su f-
ferers from cougbs. colds, sore or relaxed throat, bronchus larynlml
and other throat, chest and lung ailments prevalent at the present season.’
Peps are sold
by all chemists
and stores at
1/6 and 3/-
large box, or
direct post
free, for same
prices, from
the Peps Pas-
tille Co , 39 Pitt
St.. Sydney.
“It relieved my
backache immediately
m?:
m
iSS
A REMEDY OF 60 YEARS’ STANDING.
Allcockts
ggg PLASTERS
Apply Wherever There Is Pain.
Equally effsctivs for
rheumatism, Coughs, Colds,
Weak Chests, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiffness of
Joints or Muscles,
Sprains, etc.
Sold by Chemists Everywhere.
f
CrT*i at at =>-j SHT3
WHO HAVE USED frf E L. A"
SAY IT IS MAGIC
We say “ HELA” removes pain immediately and cures diseases. It supersedes
poultices and ointments, stops bleeding instantly.
EASILY APPLIED, DOES NOT IRRITATE, IS CLEAN and - EFFECTIVE.
Before giving up hope or undergoing an operation for anything, try
Dr. H. F. Bell’s Wonderful Remedy, “HELA.”
Used internally for ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA etc
Externally for ABSCESSES, BURNS, ECZEMA, EYE COMPLAINTS, RHEUMATISM, PILES, etc.
Senator. M Greuor. says:—“l have used 4 Hela,’ and everything- in your pamphlet has been fullv verified in
respect to myself. It only wants to be once used to become popular.” pmeu uas ueen tuny vennea m
EX Vendoi- e <! y St °A Sto^ e ;, Foy & Gibson's, Civil Service Society, Cole’s Book Arcade, and all Medicine
2.^++ r i tal "^ nSr fn 1 l " tor " lat '> on an d testimonials sent anywhere on receipt of a penny stamp.
Pnee 2 /6 P er taottie, or by post 3/6, from “HELA” DEPOT, 295 Malvern Road,
We ask you to save HELA a trial. Tel. 290 Yarra. South Yarra, Vic.
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers!
Confectioners !
Make your own AERATED WATERS
Price, £lB
and up.
Cash or Terms.
hfg
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to any others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents : ,
ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
On Tapestry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r 'HIS story I would weave in rhyme,
As tapestry
Was threaded by th e fingers white.
Of ladies long asleep in night —
Ref el, ere Don Quixote’s time.
In Arcddy.
Sir Maurice was the worthy heir
Of castlelands and tithings fair,
And fecund herds and fruitful farms;
And never rode a knight at arms
Of braver mien.
Like young Adonis, in the Spring,
He set the falcon on the wing,
And o’er the wintry upland drear
He blithely drove the antlered deer
Oftimes, I ween.
In joust supreme, and at the feast
No fairer wit his fame decreased ;
And ne’er a softer, kinder tongue
In court or council spake among
All chivalry.
That to her pillows in the night—
Betressed by plaits all golden bright—
With paters and with lover’s rhymes,
The Lady Alice vowed betimes
Her lord he’d be.
And so befel (the gilded page
Of young Romance, in any age.
On human hearts is lined and writ
With Love and Death to leaven it).
A crow-haired maid
In her dull chamber i’ the keep
Love-hungered, laid her down to sleep ;
And, hopeless as the moth that far
Adores the e’er unknowing star,
For Maurice prayed.
Aye, only Mary’s self might know
How many Aves, in her woe
And secret pain and pale distress,
She uttered for his happiness,
And knightly chance.
Sweet Moth, that other times would pray
The Lord to take her life away,
When, at her lady’s feet, she stole
That one poor comfort of her soul—
A daylight glance.
And he, this heir of hearts and lands—
Life’s merchandise beside his hands,
Love’s fruit let ripen all unsought,
And spurred the charger of his thought
Beyond the real;
In realms of thin fantastic air,
Where dwells in youth the Vision fair,
A Lady of Bright Dreams, he wove—
The Lady of his perfect Love
And high Ideal.
And pale he grew and wan with fond
Imaginings, and e’er beyond
And yet beyond the camp and court
This white Soul Idol, all amort,
So followed he
In midnight phantasy, and sought
In daylight dreams his Queen of Thought;
Nor saw what richer largesse lay
At his right hand by Night and Day
In Arcady.
So, mounting in the summer morn,
W tn clash of trump and blare of horn,
And men-at-arms, whose gallant blades
Would redden in the blest Crusades,
He hied away. . . .
The Lady Alice, from her close,
Upon his helm let fall a rose ;
But from her lattice, lorn and drear,
A doomstruck maiden dropt a tear
That bygone day.
Sir Maurice bare him knightly well,
As all the knightly legends tell ;
And by the walls where Jesu died
The Paynim strength and Paynim pride
Were humbled then.
But on that red, relentless plain
At sunset was young Maurice slain !
God gave him death, and deathless fame ;
Through Christian lands his flawless name
Was held of men.
The Lady Alice bowed her head
To Fate’s decree. She fitly wed
A puissant lord—the story runs—
And queenly daughters, noble sons,
To him she bore.
But in her straight and narrow bed,
With lilies at her feet and head,
A twelvemonth gone, below the keep
A wistful maid was laid to sleep
For evermore.
The story I hare weaved in rhyme,
This ballad of the olden time,
As true may be
As stories, wove by fingers white.
Of ladies long asleep in Night,
On tapestry.
VICTOIUA.
E. J. BRADY.
A South Sea Bubble.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
mHE window was open, and against the
light I could see the sharp profile of my
.Aunt Selina as she sat knitting. She was
knitting for the heathen—my Aunt Selina is a
whale for heathens and old china and birds and
the Rev. E. Muffles. Anything useless or in-
capable, in fact. Absolutely the most useless and
incapable of the things she suffers gladly is the
middle-aged fraud who does odd gardening jobs
for her. He alleges that he was once a sailor. He
doesn’t know a lee scupper from a clove-hitch.
The only nautical item that he never falls down
on is the difference between rum and bilgewater,
which he can distinguish almost by smell. If he
was as useless at sea as he is in the garden it ex-
plains his change of occupation. Still, my aunt
believes in him. She has a sentimental regard
for sailors, her sailor sweetheart having been
drowned at sea.
As she knitted she kept up a conversation with
this old miscreant. H.s voice droned in at the
window like the buzz of an elderly blue-bottle fly ;
“ Hexcuse me, mum,” he said, in reply to some
pious observation which I didn’t eaten, “I don’t
believe in them same ’eathens. If I may make so
bold, mum, once a ’eathen always a ’eathen is
what I says. Yes, you can teach ’em to go to
church, to wear singlets an’ ’ats—they likes pot
’ats best. You can drive it into tneir thick ’eds
without much trouble that two sixpences make a
shillin’. They picks up swearin’ like Christians,
and take to the bottle like sailors. An’ yet they
ain’t never really civilised. Wot’s the good o’
doin’ anythink for the likes o’ them ? Now I ’ates
to discourage a nice kind lady ; but wot do you
think the nigger as gets them socks ’ll do with
’em? E’U trade’em off for seving shark’s teeth
to stick in the club ’e wallops ’is wife with, an’ the
other cove ’ll wear one of ’em an’ fill the other
with sand an’ knock ’is poor old pa on the ’ead
with it, like as not.’’
Aunt Selina objected, but her objection did not
reach me.
“ Well, mum, I’m speakin’of the’eathen as I
found ’em. An’ I found ’em terrible low. A good
many is cannibiles ’an’ what-not. I s’pose you’ve
never eaten’u ming flesh, mum? I’are —I’ad to
look as-though I henjoved it too, or I’d ’a’ went
into the pot meself. Just when you’d ha’thought
the niggers were civilised enough to send a mis-
sionary to ’em. But you see, mum, tem’tation
acks just the same on black an’ white. F’r in-
stance, you or me might rob a bank—if we was
certain not to get caught. The ’eathen ain’t got
no leanin’s that way, ’cos ’e don’t know what a
bank is, but just you ship George Keid up to the
island of Beelen, where I was shipwrecked, an’
you’ll mighty soon see what’s p’ticlar weakness is.
“To look at ’em from the ship you’d think they
was good an’ tame. One of the chiefs ’as got a
’igh collar an’ a opery ’at, an’ another carries a
umberellar with a bulldog's ’ead carved on the
’andle. But the most eggstraordinary thing
about them all is the eddicated way they talk.
They comes swarmin’ up the side o’ the ship with
things to sell. 4 ’Ow much for them hi—er—them
yams?’ says you. 4 One tillum, F.0.8.’ says the
’eathen. ‘You gotten) land to sell, Tommy?’
says you. 4 Cash or easy term, title Tollen,’ says
’e. 4 You sellem wife?’ says you. ‘Term cash,’
says ’e. They know a bit, take it from me, mum.
Why, they know wot a contributing share is an’
’ow it’s different from a paid-up; an’ the chief wot
owns the umberellar can draw up a bloomin’
balance-sheet an’ make a chairman’s speech as
nice as ever you struck in your life. ’Ow did
they learn it? This way, mum :
“You see, when the storm come and wrecked
the Periwinkle—that was my ship—there was a
passenger saved as well as me. This feller was a
great big fat chap, a Director of about 50 blessed
companies. Wot ’e didn’t know about ’igh
fynance warn’t worth troublin’ your ’ead about.
We got washed ashore by the same wave, an’ as
we slithered up the beach, ’ead over ’eels, we was
grabbed by about a ’undred puffeekly naked
niggers (beggin’ your pardon, mum). They
drugged us up to their village an’ flung us into a
’ut to let the water soak out of us before they ate
us. I ’adn’t no doubt they was goin’ to do that,
’cos the little boys of the village come round,
pokin’ their ’eads in the doorway, chewin’ un-
mistakable like. An’ the lingo bein’ somethink
like wot they spoke in other islands of the group, I
’card one kid ask ’is pa, whether ’e could ’ave the
knucklebones to play jacks with. That remark
brought it ’ome. -
“ When I told the Director this ’e says, 4 Calm
yourself, Halfred—they won’t eat us.’
“‘No?’ I says. ‘lt’s a grand thing to ’ave
faith.’
I’ve got out of worse ’oles than this,’ ’e re-
plies. 4 These savages ain’t ’alf so bad as share-
’olders —nor ’alf so smart.’
“ 4 Nor ’alf so fond of long pig,’ I says, sarcastic.
But,’ says ’e, 4 1 will appeal to the cupidity
of the chief, Halfred. One touch of natur’, you
know—’ere ’ecomes —you interpret.’
“ The old King waddles in, attended by ’is
chief cook. When ’e see the Director ’is eye
lighted up. ’E pokes ’im in the ribs an’ dribbies
at the mouth. 4 Hookum hakkum ha! ’ ’e growls
to the cook. That meant ‘This cove ’ll bake
well.’ The cook bumps ’is ’ead three times on
the ground.
44 4 Ask ’im,’ says the Director, 4 whether ’e
wants to get rich quick.’
“ I asks’im. ‘O King,’says I. 4 do you want
to be the richest chief in all the islands?’
“’E says e’ did. Then the Director told me to
tell ’im the yarn of the man wot killed the goose
wot laid the golden heggs—tellin’ it to me slow
and me translatin’. Only I made it sharks’-teeth
instead of heggs. An’ the Director says as ’ow
the chief, if ’e killed us, would be the same sort of
fool as that man, an’ that we ’ad been sent by
the boss 4 Ju-Ju to make ’m the richest ’an
mightiest king in the South Seas. The chief
asks ’ow we was goin’ to do it, an’ the Director
told ’im to leave that in ’is ’ands. The chief,'
thinkin’ rio doubt that ’e could always eat us after
’e’d got rich, an’that the Director wouldn’t get
no thinner, reckoned ’e’d give it a trial. Then
the Director tries to explain the idea of a limited
liability company to ’im. ’lm an’the Director
was to issue scrip—so,ooo fully paid-up shares
at 10 sharks’ teeth a share, and 50,000 contributing
shares. With the sharks’ teeth they would corner
the cocoariut market of Beelen. I was to be the
secretary of the concern. What was the share-
holders to get kr-the way of dividends to induce
’em to part up? The inducement was very
simple—any man wot refused was to be ate.
“ Well, it worked. We was let go. an’ me an’
the Director fossicked all over the island to try
an’ find somethink to make the scrip out of. The
only thing in the way of paper we ’ad was two
train tickets, second class, from South Yarra to
Toorak, an’ an old Bulletin wot ’ad washed
ashore. We cut The Bulletin into pieces about
the size of railway tickets. The red cover pieces
stood for 100 shares an’ the white for single
shares. Me an’ the Director signed our names on
each piece, in pig’s blood, an’ the King made his
mark. The paid-up shares was marked with a big
P on the back.
“The King an’ the Director soon had all the
sharks’ teeth in the island. With these they
bought up the eocoanut crops. Then they made
the growers take up the contributing shares, and
the calls was pretty frequent. They formed a
land company With half a dozen of the other
chiefs, and started a Mont-de-Piete on their own.
The Director boueht back his opery-hat an’
trousers, which ’ad bin shook when first we come
by two of the head men, an’ I got one o’ my socks
an’ my shirt. The King ’ad the Director’s um-
berella with the bulldog ’andle, and wouldn’t sell
at no price. ’E didn’t know wot it was for, nor
’ow. to open it; but’e just loved the ’andle, an’
ordered his medicine men to carve idols like it.
They made ’em as like as they could—but didn’t
flatter the ’andle.
(Continued on next page.)


STOP IT NOW
Stop that Backache, for
Backache is Kidney-ache*
mm
fjmn
“Every
Picture
TeUs u
Story.”
The easiest time, the right time, the only safe time to protect
yourself against fatal kidney complications is when the first
sign appears, for kidney complaint comes on unnoticed, and
it is bound to end fatally if neglected. Take no risks with
your health, but begin with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at
the first sign of anything wrong. Doan’s Pills are a special
medicine and a sure cure for every disorder of the kidneys or
connective system.
Sydney Women Cured.
3 YEARS CURED,
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road, Artar-
mon, Sydney, says:—“l suffered for a long
time with severe pains-in tny back. They
were so bad that X could scarcely move about.
Rest was out of the question. I would be
tossing about all night, moaning with the
pain.. I could not bend my back, and I had to
neglect my work. I was really very ill, and
would -be confined to bed for days at a time.
I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills adver-
tised as a cure for backache, and got a box.
After a few doses I got relief, and then gradu-
ally I got better, until I was quite cured.
There is no doubt about it being a cure, for it
is three years since I stopped taking the pills,
and I’ve not had the backache all that time-
6 YEARS CURED,
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says “ I can strongly recom-
mend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for caring
pains in the small of the back. A member of
my family was suffering severely, and it was
difficult to move about at all. I blame sitting
too close at work for causing the trouble. The
pills effected a permanent cure, for there is no
sign of the ailment now.”
Mrs. Lawson makes a second statement six
years later: —“The above is quite true, and
time has proved that Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills not only cure, but cure. permanently.
There would be less suffering in the world if
people only knew the value of this remedy.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles,
posted on receipt of price by FOSTER-McOLELLAN CO., 76 Pitt
15s. 3d.), or will be
Street, Sydney.
\
«]
{%
\
Itching Piles Cured
by Doan’s Ointment.
Mr. Peter A, Dunn, retired postmaster,
now living with his daughter, who is post-
mistress at Gordon, Sydney, writes: I
furnish you herewith, unsolicited, my experi-
ence of the use of Doan’s Ointment. lam in
my sixty-third year, and was for twenty years
subject to itching piles. The pain and irrita-
tion of this complaint were very hard to bear.
Twelve years ago a chemist at Deniliquin told
me that he had tried various remedies, but did
not know of a cure for this complaint. And
I’ve heard the same remark from various
medicoes. Therefore, I tried but few remedies,,
as I had no hope of ever finding a cure, especi-
ally as the few I did try proved ineffectual.
A mail driver told me that he used to suffer
terribly, and a commercial traveller at Bega
told him to use Doan’s Ointment. He did so.
and was cured in a few days, and that man
told me that he would have given £2O to any
doctor who agreed to do for him what Doan s
Ointment did. I obtained a pot of the Oint-
ment, and used it as directed night and morn-
ing. I only used half a pot, and was free of
the complaint, and remained so for some
months. I felt a slight return of the irrita-
tion, however, and applied the ointment for a
few days, when I was perfectly cured, I sent
a box to an elderly clergyman, a friend of
mine, who had suffered for thirty years, and
he has since informed me that a few applica-
tions cured him. A natural repugnance to
reveal private matters is overcome by the hope
of doing a good turn to other sufferers. You
can therefore publish this, and those who see
it may rely on it being a truthful statement. ,
Six years later, Mr. Dunn says: “Doans
Ointment proved a permanent cure for Itching
Piles in my case. I have been free of this
torturing ailment for the past six years.”
Doan’s Ointment is 2/9 per pot at all Chemists and Stores, or
post free from Foster=McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“ Well, the Director taught the King ’ow to
water the currency, ’ow to form a joint stock com-
pany, ’ow to preside at a meeting of directors, an’
’ow to conduct a banquet all proper, with toasts
an’ after-dinner speeches an’ everything. I told
’im that ’e was on dangerous ground with these
banquets :but ’e’d got conceited, an’ reckoned the
King couldn’t do without ’im. Even when the
King asked ’im one day wot ’e weighed, ’e didn’t
seem to ’ave no idea of trouble, an’ when old Gor-
gonzola said, a few days after: 4 Wot if I took all
your shares an’ made long pig of you?’ ’e thought
it was only a joke an’ laughed. But I put it
straight to the King, that if ’e done that, all ’is
companies ’ud need new directors an’ secretaries
by law, an’ that none of ’is subjicks knew enough
about the game, an’ the ’ole boom ’ud collapse.
This kep’ ’im quiet for a bit; but when me an’
the Director was alone I asked ’im for ’eaven’s
sake to train off some of ’is fat. ’E didn’t speak
to me for three days. ’Ave you hever noticed,
mum, that if you tell a fat man ’e’s fat ’e gets
madder than if you told ’im ’e was a thief.
It’s just the same as if you call an Irishman an
Irishman, or a Yid a Yid —the truer it is the
more it narks’em.
“ But, Lord ! what a boom it was ! The nig-
gers all went fair crazy on buy in’ an’ sellin’ scrip.
An’ when the King an’ the Director got up a
sweep on a pig tournament, every man, woman
an’ child in Beelen took tickets. Thirty pigs
fought, an’ the man who drew the winning pig got
1000 sharks’-teeth. ’E was made a director of the
land company. An’ there was prizes for starters
an’ non-starters, just like in Tatt.’s.
“Of course, it couldn’t last. The shark’s-teeth
got into the ’ands of the few, the King’s click ;
an’ when the ’Ave-nots found cocoanuts riz on
’em, they formed a Socialist party. A deppita-
tion waited on the King, an’ when they found ’e
wouldn’t do nothing for ’em, another come at
night, with clubs. After they’d dealt with the
King they visited the Other Anti-Sosh chiefs, an’
before morning there ’ad bin a noo distribution of
wealth in Beelen. But long before this I ’ad give
all I possessed unto the poor, an’ identified myself
with the popular movement. I told the Director
what ’ad ’appened, next mornin’, an’ advised ’im
to do the same one-time ; but ’e didn’t believe me
till ut was too late, an”is ’ead went alongside the
King’s on to the roof of the Ju-Ju house, to
bleach with the rest of the skulls. ’ls body
joined the Socialist party.
“At the conclusion of the feast, in which I
joined to save my own skull—’avin received ’ints
—an’ if I’d not ’ave bin thin an’ tough-lookin’ I’d
’ave joined like the Anti-Sosh party—the speeches
begun. The ’ealth of the Socialists was drunk in
kava, which I won’t describe ’ow kava is made,
mum. Other toasts folded. Then a chief with a
sense of ’umor rose, gnawin’ a bone. ’E proposed
a vote of thanks to the directors of the Beelen
Land Company. 4 They are with us to-night,’ ’e
says, lookin’sorrowful at the bone. (Laughter.)
4 Where can the King an’ the Chairman ’ave got
to that they will not respond to our toast ? ’
(Laughter an’ pattin’ of stummicks.) ‘A very
good an’ tender man was our Chairman —it is a
pity there are not more like ’im.’ (Loud ap-
plause.)
“An’then —something dropped in the middle
of. the banquet. A’ awful bang folded, an’ I
’eard the crackin’ of rifles down by the beach.
The Socialists made for the bush, an’ when the
sailors from ’Er Majesty’s ship Apollinaris come
up to burn the village there was only three dead
Socialists lyin’ amongst the bones an’ me wavin’
my shirt as a flag o’ truce.”
My Aunt Selina got up from her chair after a
long silence and came into the room. She held
the finished pair of socks in her hand, and
looked blank.
44 Did you hear poor old Alfred’s awful story.
Hassan?” she inquired, shakily.
I said I hadn’t.
“Do you believe that the South Sea Islanders
are cannibals, and kill one another with socks full
of sand?”
I believed they did.
Alfred went home that evening with a knitted
pair of socks, and Aunt Selina talks of resigning
from the Foreign Mission Society.
HASSAN.
Peter’s Patent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOOK at that ! ” said Peter, handing
me a Lone Hand, and pointing to
a few lines which had been heavily
underscored.
They ran as follows: .. to man, dressing is
a misery, and the machine that will dress him
correctly and quickly, and with a parting flick of
the clothes-brush, send him down to his breakfast
a credit to himself, would make millions happy
and the inventor passing rich.”
“Well?” I said, “what about it? You don’t
mean to say you’ve ”
“But I have !” broke in Peter, excitedly. “I
was reading away, not taking much notice of
what I was reading, and suddenly I saw those
words. I said to myself: ‘ Peter, you’re the man
who’s going to invent that machine ! ’ I had
nothing on hand at the time, having just com-
pleted my infallible rabbit eradicator, and X
started on the dressing-machine right away.
“By the way,” I said, interrupting him, “I
don’t think you ever explained that rabbit eradi-
cator to me.” .
“ It was quite simple,” said Peter, with modest
pride. “You know, of course, that rabbits are
very cleanly animals. Well, my invention is in the
form of a paint. You place a dab of this paint in
the centre of each rabbit’s back. The rabbit tries
to lick it off, and, in doing so, breaks his neck. It
is simplicity itself. Danysz can’t compete with
my method.”
“How simple these great inventions are. I
cried in amazement, “when you know how.’
“Ah!” rejoined Peter with a subtle smile,
“‘that’s the point, the knowing how. But come
along and see the dressing-machine.”
He led me round the stairway and opened a
door underneath the stairs. I looked in and saw
what appeared to be a cross between a canva,s
fire-escape and an electric elevator. There was a
seat, but no sign of any machinery.
“When you want to go to bed,’ Peter ex-
plained, “ you step in here and sit down. That
starts the elevator, and on your way up you pass
through a series of machines. The first takes off
your hat and boots, the next your coat, waistcoat
and socks; the next, your collar and under-
clothing. You are then passed through a bath of
soapy water, kept at a temperature of 90 degrees,
thence into a cooler bath of rinsing water, then
through a battery of rotary towels. Then the
mechanism puts on your pyjamas and deposits
you in bed. handing you a glass,of Special Scotch
ur any other soothing syrup you care to have en
passant .”
“ Wonderful! ” I gasped. “ You seem to have
forgotten nothing! ”
“In the morning,” Peter continued, “you
press a button when you want to rise, and the-
motor automatically starts in the reverse order,
depositing you downstairs washed and dressed.
During the night the macnine has creased your
pants, and brushed and ironed your clothes. Clean
collars and under-linen are distributed at intervals
during the week from automatic magazines.”
I gazed at the contrivance in admiration.
“Jump in and try it,” Peter suggested.
“I will if you go along in front,” I said
cautiously.
Peter at once stepped in and sat down. He
was immediately wafted out of my sight, and a
second later the lift came down again. With a
half-suppressed shudder I got in and sat down.
The machine worked like a charm. Felt-covered
steel tentacles gently but speedily removed my
clothing, keeping me in a firm but gentle grasp
meanwhile. I was bathed and rinsed and
pyjamaed, and was being borne aloft for sweet
repose. Then a strange and untoward circum-
stance occurred. The machine captured Peter
and reversed with both of us on board. Peter
and I were again bathed and dressed. Peter
got a clean collar, which I deemed to be unfair.
But, just before we reached the bottom elevator,
the confounded thing reversed again.
“Peter,” I said, “I don’t” (hat and boots off)
“want to get’’(coat and socks off) “ undressed
again.” (Vest, shirt and collar off.) “Can’tyou”
(hot bath) “stop the damn” (cool bath) “thing?”
(Towels, and motor reversed again.)
Peter cursed. (Cool bath.) “I’m afraid,” he
said (hot bath) “ that something” (rotary towels)
“ has gone ” (shirt, collar and vest on) “ wrong.”
(Pants, coat and boots on, hair brushed, and
motor again reversed.)
“Perhaps,” said Peter, as we got undressed
again, “ the power will give out soon.”
Alas for human hopes and aspirations ! The
motor seemed to be speeding to break recoids.
Up and down we went. I seemed to be no
sooner out of those beastly baths than I was in
them again. Faster and faster went the infernal
mechanism. The most horrid part of the whole
nightmare was the fact that we never got to the
stage where the Special Scotch was administered.
At last the motions became so rapid that we had
three baths in ten seconds, and my head was in a
whirl, and I felt that unconsciousness would soon
supervene. Nearing the bottom elevator I made
a supreme effort, and by great good luck managed
to tear myself out of the grip of the clothing
tentacles. I fell into Peter’s hallway in the con-
dition of Adam before the fall. Then I looked in
at Peter. He was only a blur—a frequently
washed blur.
I went to the kitchen and seized the family
axe. I found the motor in the cellar. I must
have hit it in a vital part, for after an ineffectual
attempt at fireworks it stopped with a jolt.
“Peter ! ” I yelled. There was no response.
I crawled into the machine and found him
insensible but dressed. The machine had
stopped in the act of brushing his hair. He soon
recovered, and then I had a delightful half-hour
disentangling my clothes from the mechanism.
When I returned to Peter he had the axe in his
hand and there was a look of wild determination
in his eye. I did not restrain him. As he hacked
away at the last remnant of the dressing-machine
a great and abiding joy suffused my soul. Happi-
ness is not yet to be ladied out to the millions,
and Peter is not going to be passing rich.
HARRY TILLMAN.
Thrift.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. W. Herbert Phillips, chairman of the Board of the
Saving's Bank of South Australia, etc., commented on
the effect of the growth of music halls in Australia, and
said that it was always difficult after race meetings to
collect* rens for cottages from people of the working
classes. — Report of the Edinburgh Thrift Conference.
Marriage, drinking long-sleevers, and going to theatres
are luxuries, and it is unfair to ask employers to pay for
them.— Remarks by an official of Vic. Employers’
Federation.
ARE ye frugal, 0 my brothers? Are ye
putting by the pence ?
Do ye scrape and save to meet a rainy
day ?
Are ye meek and self-denying,
Or, while Fate and Fat defying,
Do ye rashly fling your hard-earned coin away ?
Nay, I fear me ye are careless, ye are ignorant of
Thrift,
And I fear me that ye do not—more than twice—
Look a thrippence in the face
Ere ye plunge and go the pace,
And lash it up on vanity and vice.
Hark, my brothers, humble brothers, common
blokes that earn a wage,
Cease your mad pursuit of pleasure; pause and
think.
Listen to the anxious Tory,
Hark ye to his mournful story,
For he loves you very dearly—(’scuse the wink).
Yes, he loves you like a brother, and it pains him
frightfully
To observe your careless disregard of cash.
In his wisdom he foresees
That if you persist in these
Wild extravagances, something has to smash.
In the olden days, dear brothers, when the worker
knew his place,
He was humble and contented with his lot.
And this modern inclination
To aspire beyond his station
Is the fell result of Socialistic rot !
Seek ye beers and halls o’ pleasure ? Go ye to the
races ? Fie !
Where is this lust for revelry to stay ? ,
Soon you’ll be demanding marriage
And—ye gods !-r-a baby-carriage ;
Things for which you will expect the boss to
pay !
Why, already your wild orgies make the noble
Landlord weep.
Even now you just contrive to pay his rent.
But if you will go to races
And to such expensive places
What of that projected rise of ten per cent?
For our betters are earth’s pleasures, for the
squires and wealthy drones,
For the magnates and the masters that employ ;
And all-seeing Providence,
In Its wise beneficence.
Has decreed that he who works may not enjoy.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


“ Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
h
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I toon lid
not benefit me. I then ti.ed
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
AYER’S 1 arsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co,, Lowell, Mass., XJ. S. A.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
p
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
~ -...J known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
D/ARRHCEA, and is the only
specific In CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
fVAV?
V.A.V.
PORT.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N S W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
British-JVustralasiatt
&
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
A/1 POST FREE, £i per year,
UU4 in advance, all over tbe world.
Australians visiting London are oordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Bhitish-Adstralasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near
LONDON, W.G.
Price
“ LINSEED COMPOUND” tor Oongha and
Gold*. Of proven effioaejr for cheat complaint*.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
J/-EACH POST FREE !A
. Quality Not Better
in a
1 Gutnea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
'store
SYDNEY,
STOREKEEPERS 4 TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the uompulsorv
winding up of same, arid beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£b 10s. Sale Price.. ■ # ..£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns," steel ~
lpcks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble'Wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
8 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 15 0
8 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. ... .. _ £6 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .£2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 ’9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. fid. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue— posted free.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA*
Cures the same
diseases without
Inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bear* the name E*
fgh
PLAIN TRUTHS
on the subject of Health are the only acceptable pronouncements.
Exaggerated statements end by convincing no one—rather do they create
suspicion, and give rise to doubt. But you may safely listen to universal
opinion. The public have for long known the value of Beecham’s Pills
in cases of disorder and irregularity of the Stomach, Bowels, Liver and
Kidneys. Thousands of men and women know, from glad experience,
that an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills will promote the healthy action
of these organs, and that all the good things heard on every hand
ABOUT
this medicine are true in the strictest sense. Most people desire a
specific that can be depended upon at all times to correct the vital
functions when they are out of order and Nature calls for some assist-
ance. Such a preparation may be found in BEECHAM’S PILLS.
They will put you right and keep you up to the mark. They have
proved an immense boon to many thousands of men and women
all over the world. It is just as certain that they will benefit you—
and this is a plain truth you may accept and act upon in regard to
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Soft/ everywhere In boxes, price I',l\ (56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
SggES
ss
K-JO
r\
Thoughtful Treatment
of such everyday ailments as biliousness, sick headache and
indigestion, does not involve the added discomfort caused by
rash and drastic purgatives. Give Nature a chance.
J us t try one or two Cockle’s Pills. They will give a fillip to the
sluggish liver. That, in nine cases out of ten, is the cause of all the
trouble. Physicians have prescribed Cockle’s Pills for more than one
hundred years, .
□
PILLS.
THE POCKET
The Besses a the Barn
have gone, but the.,..,..
Besses
the
have come to stay
CRAG
ACK
WENIOR)
Built to Beat the Band
iJThe Reeds aie made
of Bell Metal, and
are Tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackaj
MADE IN SIX
: ■■
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/.
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reed*
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds ....
: Cadet, 20 Reeds ,
1/-
1/-
SOLD EVERYWHERE
—— ——— ——
Sole Agents ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD. Melbourne
© y
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge,
S.H. HENSHALL,
Reffd. Chemisti
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne,
fg
OSTRICH TIPS
From
Africa.
u
3 for 101 -
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Blaok tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 Inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP ,
Oorner Strand Arcade, Pitt Bt., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The bulletin.] [5
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
* Dlfflenlty In expectoration. Asthma, Herrons Cough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression Immediately
reliercd by GEIMAULT * Co's INDIAN CIGAE-
ETTES. Sold by all ChemitU.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. fIOO pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 280 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. BARVAAS. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvkrs Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
Alb Pricks Nett.
The Standard Remedy which has outlired the Oentunee
SIRSLETOH'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use lince ieo«.
CURBS
tjl UIUUg UJDIUITUQiJj ]
Ask your chemist for lie history—the book Is free—er write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng,


it
TITAN” —THE BEST
hfg
HOT WATER BAG .
The “TITAN ” is the standard Hot Water
Bat; of Australia. It is manufactured at
oiir Drutnmoyne Works, of specially
selected rubber, and is guaranteed to with-
stand boiling water. The stoppers are
rubber-covered, and a vent is provided to
allow the steam to escape while the bag is
being filled. Order one to-day.
The prices, carriage paid, are :
Size.
10in. x 6in.
l2m. x 6in.
Wi". x Bin.
12in. x Sin.
12in. x lOin.
Without
Cover.
5/9 each
6/6 each
6/9 each
7/6 each
9/- each
With Cover,
Assorted Shades.
6/6 each
7/6 each
7/9 each
8/6 each
10/6 each
• Call, or write now, for a copy of our Special Free
Folder on the “Titan” Hot Water Bags.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
PUMPS.
The Victoria Turbo-Pumps
Manufactured by
Willans (Si Robinson Ltd., Rugby.
We can quote for High or Low Lift Pumps, either Belt or Electric Drive.
Apply —T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney
DICKS PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORICINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADh
h
MARK
The STRONCEST and most EFFICIENT j'et produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a jruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
E BULLETIN
Series. IV, -V ”
POST CARDS—New
VT Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
The Most Wholesome Spirit Obtainable,
A real
Health
Tonic.
wwmm
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
“ McINNE-S DOBBIE ” Indicators
FOR STEAfI, GAS or OIL ENGINES. Adopted by the British Admiralty, and used by the Largest Power Users of the World.
T »»
AIR COMPRESSORS
STEAM, BELT or ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
HIGHSPEED ENGINES
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
... ' - L j
SEND FOR
CA TALOGUES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fgh
1910 PATTERN.
Send in your Handpieces early and have
them fitted with the new Screwless Joint.
Repairs to outfits carried out quickly and
cheaply in our new up-to-date workshop.
THE
Sheep Shearing Machines.
Sole Agents for Australasia — DALGETY (Si COMPANY, LIMITED. Depot—Mill
TEL.
f 3236
\5221
MACHIN
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED , GATESEND ON TYNE.
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Castlereagh Chambers,
10 Castlereagh Street.
SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 2325,
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Office: Castlereagh Chambers, 10 Cas.lereagh Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
We Manufacture
in Sydney
;
m mm
|a MS wi
i
AIR hand HAMMER DRILLS
* *
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
fg
After Careful Consideration and PROOF of EFFICIENCY
TASMANIA’S GREATEST GOLD MINE
Has Adopted the Card Concentrator present them
G
These Machines are at present successfully treating Gold, Silver Lead, Zinc, Tin, Copper, Bismuth,
Antimony and Scheeiite Ores. Write for Particulars. Trial Parcels Tested.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, SYDNEY;
525 Collin Street, MELBOURNE.
