

M&BBIiyFA Wt*GL-k\\ that a perfect Whisky should be.
B. G. WATZUNS «S& CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
S&sXjw.&o&lc &•
Sole Agents for
Gardner-Duplex
Steam Pumps.
For Mining and , General Service.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
3HC O ."ES-A. TC.
*ofii
fjadley’s Orient jjotel.
Pioneer
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C* Ludowici & Son, Ld.
lit YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
dsfd
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSEN’S
unket
w -ih
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
L 4
n
V>VAy,
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
&
y
%
s
0
A
6
N
%
V
*
CF
A
v
<o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
śdfsdfdsfsdf
sdf
sd
f
MALTHOID is the twentieth century ready-made roofing. It is a high-
grade product far ahead of all others suited to the covering of ware-
houses, residences, business blocks, sheds and any other building on
which a roofing light in weight and possessing the other qualities of a
perfect roofing is desired.
m .
m
m
Q
IKIWi
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
sd
fsd
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
f
sdf
sd
f
FOR
Send for Catalogues.
Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
&
WHISKY
0
MARTEEL’S
BRANDY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 31—No. 1585. ]
[Thursday, June 30, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO. PROP.,
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.,
Royal Academy Pictures, 1910, cloth 6s, posted 7s.
Royal Academy Pictures, 1910, paper cover, 3s 6d, p. 4s 3d.
Leach, M.: Letters of a Modern Golfer, 3s, posted 3s 6d.
Brewer’s Art of Aviation, 12s 6d, posted 13s 3d.
Davis : Bank Organisation, 6s, posted 6s Bd. [p. 26s 6d.
Allen's Oom’l Organic Analysis, vol. 2, new ed., 255,
MacGowan : Wiving of Lance Clavering, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Elkington’s Canada, 4s 6d.
Portrait Miniatures, English and Foreign Special No. of
Studio, 6s, posted 7s 6d.
Reid, 0. A. : Law of Heredity, 255, posted 26s 3d.
Brassy’s Naval Annual, 15s, posted 16s.
Hudson, W. H.: Intro, to Study of Literature, ss, p. 5s 6d.
Aero Manual, new edition, Is 9d, posted 2s.
Hill’s Oratorical Trainer, new edition, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Conway, Sir M.: Alps, 4s 6d, posted ss.
PRINTER’S PIE, 1910, contains 25 Colored Drawings, 24 Black and White Drawings,
18 Complete Stories, and 10 New Poems. Price Is 3d, posted Is Bd.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol
AN IDEAL REMEDY
ggs>
iiTwsS
c.Hudson:
uum. mm m ,
4g&Ssz££2&
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for'Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
in Stamps.
COMPANY, LTD 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
THE PATERAN.
From over the leagues of ice and snow, and the
miles of scorching sand ;
From back of the days of the long ago, and the
lonely sea and land—
To the end of the world and our Gipsy race, to
the death of our dark-eyed line,
I have set the lines on my children’s palms as my
fathers did on mine.
That the World shall know and my name shall
glow in the light of the aftershine
I have set the lines on my children’s palms as my
fathers did on mine.
I have given them health and strength, pure
blood, clear skins for a glorious youth ;
I have set in their souls contempt for sham and a
deathless regard for truth.
I have bequeathed the spirit to fight, I have given
the will to rise,
And the slumbering fires of Hate and Love in
their dreaming, dreaming eyes.
That the World shall know and my name shall
glow in the light of the aftershine,
I have set the lines on my children’s palms as
my fathers did on mine.
I have given the love for their native land, wher-
ever that land may be
(My fathers came from the East! my friends—
and round by the Northern Sea).
And a son of a son of mine enemy, to the end of
his treacherous line,
Shall be stricken to earth, if he dare but speak,
by a son of a son of mine ;
That the world shall know, and my name shall
glow, in the light of the aftershine,
I have set the lines on my children’s palms as my
fathers did on mine.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
Diaz of Mexico
On the second Sunday in July the Presi-
dential elections will be held in Mexico,
and in all probability Porfirio Diaz, now 80
years of age, will be again elected to the
position he has held for 30 years. At the
other end of North America, one man has
been for nearly 20 years the constitutional
head of a dominion greater in extent and
riches than Mexico ; but the monopoly of
power Which Diaz has had for so long is
more extraordinary than that of Wilfred
Laurier. The Mexicans are in many re-
spects similar to the Spanish mixture in the
South American republics, where, at fre-
quent intervals, the Government disappears
with the petty cash, or is knocked on the
head. They were about the first of Spain’s
colonists to strike a blow for independence,
and after., the republic was established in
1821 they indulged in plenty of civil war
until the French intervention in 1862, when
they combined to upset the tinpot emperor
foisted upon them by Nap. 111.
Diaz proved himself a first-class fighting
man in all engagements, and when he became
President, he showed equal ability as a states-
man. He reorganised the army and the
civil service, separated Church from State,
made roads, railways and harbors, estab-
lished State banks, fixed up the cur-
rency, and gave Mexico credit in the
eyes of the money-lerider. Trade had a
chance to develop, and the people became
prosperous. There is nothing like prosperity
to soothe turbulent spirits. Many who had
hardly a rag to their backs now have a stake
in the country. According to the latest sta-
tistics, three and/a half millions are taxable
out of a population of thirteen millions,
which is a good proportion for a people of
Spanish blood.
Gratitude and admiration might alone ac-
count for the continuous re-election of Diaz.
Anyhow, his readiness and resource have
been too much for occasional outbreaks ; and
there has not been a man near enough to
him in fighting qualities and popularity who
could lead a substantial revolt. In fact, the
only man comparable to Diaz amongst the
Spanish-Americafi people is “the Liberator,”
Simon Bolivar, who died in 1830, the year
of Diaz’s birth. Though not so fireworlcy as
Bolivar, Diaz is as good a general and a
better statesman.
Like the heroes of Samuel Smiles, Porfirio
was born of “ poor but honest parents.” He
was intended for the Church, but turned
that down for the Law. Oaxaca, his native
city, is in a mountainous region, where fight-
ing went on regularly during his youth, and
while studying, law his school was sup-
pressed by President Santa Anna as a
hotbed of sedition. Diaz led a revolt,
had to scoot, and remained a refugee for
several years. In 1856 he joined the
Liberals in “ the war of Reform,” put up a
splendid record for in-fighting, and sub-
stantially helped to squash the Church or
Conservative party in 1861. When the
French invaded Mexico in the following
year, Diaz commanded a brigade and covered
himself with glory. He was wounded
many times; imprisoned, and spent two
months in digging a tunnel. This was dis-
covered, and he was removed to another
prison, but succeeded in getting away via
the roof. Then, in pitched battles and
sieges, his generalship was largely responsible
for the utter defeat of the French. Diaz
had full control of the republic until the
President, Juarez, and his Cabinet returned
to the capital, when Diaz handed over the
army and a tidy surplus in the treasury, and
retired to his farm, like Cincinnatus. He
has always been a model citizen in the prac-
tise of homely virtues—such as honesty and
clean living.
The next Presidental election brought on
the usual faction fight, Diaz was in the
field against Juarez and Lerdo de Tejada ;
Juarez died suddenly, and Tejada won. At
the following election the fight was keener
than ever ; Diaz had some narrow escapes,
but after one defeat Tejada cleared out, and
in December, 1876, Diaz was elected Presi-
dent by a large majority.
In his first term Diaz had to put down a
few mutinies, but lie established confidence
by paying salaries regularly and meeting
foreign obligations. The Constitution then
provided that a President could not be re-
elected, and at the end of his term Diaz
quietly stood down and let another man step
up. He married and went for a trip to the
United States, while his successor ran
Mexico into debt. In 1884 Diaz was again
elected President. Later on the constitu-
tional prohibition Was abolished, and since
then he has been re-elected regularly.
The career of this benevolent despot is
one of the most remarkable of modern times.
The bare reeord of his climb up from
obscurity, the accidents, escapes and suc-
cesses of his military career, the excitement
of political life, and the peaceful progress of
his later years reads like a romance. There
is no satisfactory biography in English ; but
Mrs. A. Tweedie gives the facts with a lot
of padding in Porfirio Diaz, Seven Times
President of Mexico (Dymock’s). Mrs.
Tweedie was out to make a book, and stuffed
in anything handy. The latest is by Jose F.
Godoy, the representative of Mexico in the
U.S.A., who provides an official eulogy with
illustrations and elaborate appendices (Dy-
mock’s). Godoy’s book is the less objec-
tionable of the two.
A Scottish Bard
In a country where every rod of land has
its legend and every ruin is embalmed in
poetry, romance is imbibed with the mother’s
milk. The inheritor of its historic glories
who wishes to write is inclined to turn to
these materials ready to hand ; but the diffi-
culty of adding to them is in proportion to
their magnitude. Will Ogilvie proved him-
self a capable verse craftsman when in
Australia. He saw tl>e pure romance pf the
Bush—that is, romance independent of
associations, and he put some of it into verse
which lives. The call of his homeland
inspired some of the verse written here, and
since his return to Scotland he has sung
with undiminished fervor of deeds and
places already famous in song. Set side by
side, however, his later Scottish verses in
The Land We Love (Thos. Fraser, Dal-
beattie) are not equal to his Australian
verses in Fair Girls and Grey Horses. In the
latter, his fancy had practically raw mate-
rial to play upon, and the result is fresher
and more valuable to poetry readers gene-
rally. And, technically, some of the verses
in his first book are finer than anything he
has since done. The new volume contains
lines like “ Down dim forgotten beaches
where the fenceless oceans comb ” worthy of
the Canadian or some other Kipling. Ogilvie
is essentially a singer, and is worth listening
to, whatever "may be the subject of his song.
“ Tweedmouth Bar ” is as good a specimen
as any :
O wide and winding river,
You bring, it seems to me,
The glambr of the Lowlands''
As gift unto the sea.
The clink of spur and stirrup,
The gleam of bit and lance,
The spoil of all the Border
In riches of Romance !
Beneath your silver burden
The Stars have heard you. pass
With laughter o’er the pebbles
With love-words through the grass ;
Now, welcomed by the sea-winds,
And woven with the spray,
’Neath Berwick’s time-worn ramparts
You mix with Tweedmouth Bay!
While we lie idly dreaming,
What wraiths of vessels ride !
Ghost ships of song and story
That drop with every tide !
Their sails are broidered moonlight,
Each masthead lamp’s a star,
When the white boats of Fancy
Glide over Tweedmouth Bar !
The sea mists stoop and wrap them,
And none on earth may know
Where they shall furl their tops’ls
And let their anchors go ;
For round the world and round again
They’ll find in fields afar
No knight to ride like Deloraine
Or love like Lochinvar !
Stevenson said that romanticism in literature
is a consciousness of background. Austra-
lians have not yet a background like the
Border, to which a third of Ogilvie’s new
songs are dedicated in this spirit:
When all sounds else are silent
When all songs else depart,
The brown burns of the Border
Shall sing within tny heart.
But the Border is not all. In a poem on
Scott’s favorite view—“ From Bemersyde ”
—he says :
We see the Border ; hut Scott’s view more wide.
Took in Life’s light and shade from Bemersyde !
and Ogilvie has a look round ; but his vision
does not penetrate far. The rest of the poems
are charged with tender sentiment and warm-
hearted sympathy, characteristic of a good
Scot. The poet would light the wrong in
this fashion ;
Were I this city’s over-lord
As but its humble serf am I
Were I this city’s over-lord
I would ride forth with naked sword
And slay its heartless wrongs, or die !
And one of the finest things in the book is
“The White Pavilions,” of the women who
have loved and suffered. It has a flavor of
Swinburne, on whom some memorial verses
are also printed. These are two of the six
stanzas :
With snow-white blossoms starred.
With a snow-white cloud above,
The White Pavilions guard
Souls pure as the woodland dove.
All day in the face of Death,
On the still wind’s whispering breath
The silver bugles of Faith
Sound, and the trumpets of Love.
These are the women who stayed
Pure in a world of mire,
Wife and mother and maid
Filling their God’s desire ;
Whose faith to the weaker and sadder
Made all life brighter and gladder,
Till hope was a rose-hung ladder
And love was a golden lyre.
Compared with the current minor verse of
of Britain Ogilvie’s work is strikingly vigor-
ous. It seems to be appreciated, as the
booklet — Rainbows and Witches —published
in 1907, is now in the fourth edition.
;. r-- —
H. B. Marriott Watson, having success-
fully revived his romantic man-about-town
who had been buried in The Skirts of Happy
Chance, has tried the same process on an
earlier defunct. Galloping Dick now gallops
again with credit to the illustrious company
of Dick Turpin in The King’s Highway
(Dymock).
The author who hides under the name of
“A. Whisper” has also added to the dash-
ing highwaymen of fiction. Black Mark
(Blackwood) is a vigorously written story
with a charming heroine. Mr. Whisper has
followed up his romance of the eighteenth
century A.d. with one of the thirteenth
century 8.C., called King and Captive
(Dymock). Whether it is a faithful picture
of Pharaoh and the people of Thebes in that
far-off time or not doesn’t matter; the
story is a good one.
Frederick Niven is one of the younger
English writers whose work in prose and
verse is worth watching. The Island Pro-
vidence (Sydney Book Club) is a tale of rough
men and rude action, of wreckers and buc-
caneers, and the sacking of Cartagena. The
brutality of the adventurer’s . life is not
painted in rose pink. There is plenty of
action ; but the action is subordinated to the
development x>f character, principally that
of the dreamy Devon boy who fed the
melancholy of youth with scraps of poetry
and Hakluyt’s Voyages, and became one of.
those “ stiil, strong men ” whose slumbering
forces explode when least expected.
Charles Marriott is a novelist who just
missed doing a big tiling when he wrote The
Column. He has written several fair novels
since ; but has never fulfilled the hopes
based on his first performance. Now!
(Sydney Book Club) has an attractive theme.
A society with the simplest of rules has been
formed fin England by a wealthy German
Jew named Morrison, whose philosophy is
much the same as that of Senhouse in Maurice
Hewlett’s last three stories—-“ The less you
have the more you are.” These people refuse
to have a stake in the country or submit to
the tyranny of keeping up appearances ; they
just drop out of the existing order and live
an informal sort of “ simple life.” The only
bond between them is recognition, and. thqir
motto is “ Now ! ” The story is told by one
of them. He became acquainted with a good
middle-class family, the
who regard themselves as advanced. Their
daughter is a natural Morrisonian, and the
principal interest of the story is in the con-
flict between the influence of her practical
family and her love for a gipsy-like member
of the society. The Kenwyn-Brown house-
hold is well depicted, but the story takes too
long in getting under way. Nothing happens
in the first hundred pages, which would
make many readers abandon a novel of more
■ than ordinary interest.
A story of the world ,at war, with battle,
murder and sudden death ladled out gener-
ously will attract many readers. The Shadow
of Glory (Sydney Book Club) is a history of
the great war of 1910-11 by an American
with the beautifully British name of Arthur
Wellesley Kipling. The trouble begins next
July in Australia—over the Japs, of course.
In October, Germany invades Holland,
Great Britain intervenes, the Japs turn
against Britain in spite of the treaty, and,
in the twinkling of an eye, all Europe, Asia
and America are in the scrap. Samples of
nearly every kind of fight are provided, and
American aeroplanes give the coup de grace.
Full Fathom Five, an anthology of prose
and verse relating to the sea made by Helen
and Lewis Melville (Dymock) contains one
item from Australia—Kendall’s “God Help
Our Men at Sea.”
“5.0. H.,” from the U.S.A. :
Jean Sibi writes (7/4/T0): “Ella Wheeler
Wilcox, they say, occupies a high place among
American rhvmsters.” Well, if they do, they lie.
She has a vogue among chambermaids and char-
women—the sort that devour Hearst’s yellow
journals—but her claims as a verse-builder are
scouted by cultivated folks here. America is not
well favored in this regard. We have, though,
in Bliss Carman a lyricist of great gifts, though
his later work shows a sad decline. The American
poets really worthy of consideration are: Ambrose
Bierce’s literary protege—George Sterling, Wil-
liam Vaughan Moody, Wilbur Underwood, Ernest
McGaffey and Theodosia Garrison. This quin-
tette has done and is doing ambitious and praise-
worthy work.
There is also a party named Cale Young
Rice, whose poetic dramas have been highly
praised by American reviewers, They are
about equal to Stephen Phillips at his worst;
but they are better than a just-published
volume of lyrics— Many Gods (Doubleday
Page and Co.). The style is smooth, regular
and empty. A stanza from the first poem
will illustrate his strength and weakness :
The illimitable leaping of the sea,
The mouthing of his madness to the moon,
The seething of his endless sorcery.
His prophecy no power can attune
Swept over me as, on the sounding prow
Of a great ship that steered into the stars,
I stood and felt the awe upon my brow
Of death and destiny and all that mars.
—— —» . ■ -
The Book Monthly for May prints the opinions
of some writers on the Modern Novel. Marriott
.Watson : “ The new book is cheaper, more active
and less literary. Names don’t count as they
once counted.” Violet Hunt: “ To-day we know
how to write ; yesterday a man or woman sat
down with a large pot of ink and the vine-leaves
prominent in iris or her hair. They poured out
their souls. The consequence was that in those
days you got a better view of the passions and
weakness of the' author. Nowadays, on the
whole—in writers who count—you get a great
deal better view of life, such as it is,” W. L.
Courtney: “There is a decided increase in
psychological analysis, There Has been more
attention paid to the technique of the novel;
on the other hand, there has been a falling off
in the story-te.lling qualities.” Winston Churchill
(of 17. S. A.) notes a tendency to shorten the novel ;
and Hubert Bland says : “ The chief fault I have
to find with the average novel of to-d'ay is its
length ; it is nearly always too long. The novel,
however, is better written, and authors appear to
put more thought into their work.” W. J. Locke
considers that the form of the novel is now more
flexible and the technique more subtle. James
Douglas: “The new force in fiction is woman.
Most of our novels are written by women for
women, and by men for women. Wells and
Galsworthy are feminist pioneers, and they are
smashing the English novel into smithereens.
They are painting life as it is.” Wells speaks for
himself only, and thinks he is no part of any
movement at all. “My game is to break away
from what I may call the objective, the dramatic
novel, and to utilise every device I can find for a
subjective presentation of life.” ... One thing upon
Which most of these writers agree is that they
write better than their predecessors.
The English. Review, now edited by Austin
Harrison, is better than ever, and easily first.of
literary periodicals. The May number contains
two poems by the Australian-born Frederic Man-
ning, articles by Hewlett, Hudson, Cunnirighame-
Graharn, etc, A serial by H. G. Wells, “The
New Machiavelli,” begins promisingly ; and the
first article by Frank Harris on “ The Women of
Shakespeare ” 'continues the work done in his
book — The Man Shakespeare —and replies to some
of his critics. A characteristic article, by Swin-
burne, on “The Earlier Plays of Beaumont and
Fletcher ” refers to “ the curious laxity with which
educated and able men will fling about epithets
when engaged in critical comment.” He was
speaking about Dyce and Hallam; but in the
beginning of his own article there is a fine ex-
ample : “ That a Jephson, or a Tate, a Cibber or
an Ibsen should for a moment be compared or
preferred to Shakespeare by any howling Dervish
or laughing jackass of letters is a matter of no
moment; that men of genius should ever have
been thrust forward as claimants for so ridiculous
a promotion is only too certain to impair or to
imperil. .... the recognition of their genuine
claims to honor.” What is Ibsen doing in that
galley?
The position of poetry in the English market
may be inferred from a statement in the April
Bookman: “A new poet who sells out an edition
of a thousand in less than two years is not to be
passed over without congratulation.” The book
is Scott Craven’s Joe Skinner, which bears some
resemblance to Ingoldshy.


Jk
w ace
Everything f>r Everyone at Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
Carreras’ Special Double
Broad Cut Tobacco.
5?-
C=7
< O/MDOV^
50^
Carreras’ Special
Double Broad Cut.
This tobacco is specially manufactured by Carreras
Ltd., for ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
and all discriminating'smokers one recommended to
give it a trial. ;The new method of cutting arid
mixing adopted for the CARRERAS’ SPECIAL
DOUBLE BROAD CUT ensures the exact blend
intended by the manufacturer. ‘ j
With CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE
BROAD CUT the Natural Tobacco is in Large
Pieces, absolutely Free frbm Stalk, and Cut in such
a way that the Weight of the Different Particles is
Practically the Same. This evenness ensures the
Pipe being Filled with all the Different Tobaccos in
the Mixture in the precise pioportions intended by
the blenders, consequently the Exact Flavor-is at all
times maintained.
When the pipe is lighted) it will be found that
CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD
CUT allows the AIR to PASS through the
TOBACCO as easily as through a DRY SPONGE,
and the SMOKE REACHES 'THE MOUTH
FILTERED OF, ALL ITS HEAT.
The pipe always DRAWS FREELY, and with a
DELICIOUS COOLNESS, because the tobacco CANNOT form into LUMPS,
such as rhost smokers have experienced with FINE-CUT MIXTURES.
CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD CUT TOBACCO smokes
PURE and SWEET to the BOTTOM of the PIPE,’ leaving a MINIMUM of
ASH, and the COMBUSTION is SO PERFECT that it ACTUALLY goes
TWICE AS FAR AS CHEAPER MIXTURES.
Packed' in patent vacuumised tin 3, guaranteed to keep the tobacco in good
condition for any time in any climate :
MEDIUM STRENGTH—2oz., Is. 3d.; by post, Is. 6d.
40z., 2s. 6d. ; by post, 2s. 10d.
Per lb., 9s. 6d.; postage—N.S.W., 9d.; other States, Is. 2d.
The
Perfect
sd
Vacuum
Flask.
The ISOLA FLASKS keep their contents at nearly the came degree of heat or cold fcr a
considerable time, without chemicals, without preparation and without trouble.
A NECESSITY IN EVERY
HOUSEHOLD.
PINT SIZE-
ENAMELLED CASE,
11/6, 12/6.
IMITATION LEATHER,
13/6.
ALL NICKEL,
21/-
The ISOLA VACUUM GLASS
IS EASILY REPLACED.
fsd
INVALUABLE to MOTOR-
ISTS and SPORTSMEN.
QUART SIZE-
ENAMELLED CASE,
21 /-. 22 1-
IMITATION LEATHER,
23|-
ALL NICKEL,
31/6.
ALWAYS READY FOR USE.
No Fire or Chemicals required.
ISOLA VACUUM FLASKS may be obtained from the following Australasian Agents :
New South Wales, South and West Australia—ANTHON Y HORDERN & SONS, Only
Universal Providers, New Palace Emporium, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
Queensland—PEßßY BROS., LTD., Queen & Elizabeth Streets, BRISBANE.
Tasmania—CHAßLES DAVIS, Elizabeth Street, HOBART.
New Zealand—MANDEL, HARRIS & CO;, Cuba Street Extension, WELLINGTOjN.
Victoria-McLEAN BROS. & RIGG PROPY. LTD., 147 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
GEM
JUNIOR
S af e ty Razor
WITH THE
NEW
BAR
r-s**
y-
>
Al
GE
9tk
M
M
JSi.
r r Makes an
Ideal Present for any Man.
The Gem Junior Safety Razor, with the New Bar, adds still
further to the efficiency of this popular-Safety Razor. THE GEM JUNIOR
provides a keen blade for each day in the week. Every blade automatically
adjusts itself, and as the BLADE does the shaving, it is the first consideration,
Gem Junior Blades are made from the best razor steel, tempered by
a process patented by the Gem Cutlery Co. (the oldest* makers of Safety
Razors), and assure a keen lasting edge.
After using Gem Junior Blades several times they may be stropped
—the steel is superior, the temper and edge so fine that stropping makes
them, as good as ever.
,■ ■ . -I t ■ '
The New Bar smoothes out the creases of the skin, raises the beard
just ahead as the cutting edge, and makes perfect shaving a simple matter.
The Gem Junior Safety B>azor is made and finished in the best
style, of the best materials, and by the best workmanship. It comprises
Nickel-plated Frame, extra handle for Stropping Blades, and Seven Keen-
edged Blades packed in neat case.
f
Anthony Horderns’
Price, 5(5
By Post, 5|9
Anthony Horderns fcr Pipes, Tobacco 8 Cigars
TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE.
London Made,
Silver Mounted.
i '
25
23
28
29
Hand Cut
Vulcanite Stems
BY
POST,
THE 4/8 TRIUMPH BRIAR is the finest Pipe made, and guaranteed to be of the finest materials. It is
London made, Sterling Silver-mounted, with I-lipid-Cut Vulcanite Push Mouthpiece, and will not crack
or burn. Shapes as illustrated. Shapes No. 26 and 28 can also be had with Silver Push at 6/6'iach. '
THE A. H. & S. BRIAR PIPE.
Selected Briar, Silver
Band. 9 10 Post Free
Push Stems, Any Shape,
Post Free.
19
Send for
Tobacco List,
Post Free.
THE A. H. & S. BRIAR at 2/6 (Posted 2/8) is the equal of Pipes
often sold at four times the price* It is First Quality Briar,
Vulcanite Mouthpiece, Sterling Band, Push Stem, shapes
as illustratecf.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace iLmpo
Brickfield
ritim
Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape «■ BOOKS
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/- ;
Post Free, 1/2.
KKr.LT Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Prank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mosb Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1 /-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pajres, 400 colored plates
and enpraviiifrs, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1 /-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
i
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1,6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price Gd.; post
free, Bd.
Tim Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no conferierat.es anti no special sltill). post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to anv address. Stamps or Postal Notes of anv State will do.
201 Bourke St, Melbourne.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
§
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
& JA VS
“s^ftRINKA?^
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician ’B
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
i
mm*
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
sd
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Lease ho
City or Suburban Properties, or o
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Securi y
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of th ®
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying!*
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. \Y. Meeks. M.L.0., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E‘. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
„„. Knox, E«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary
V C
W<
“ It's such a relief to get
a Pen that suits me! ”
That’s what people sav who use the
BALL-POINTED PENS.
Made for easy writing, in styles to suit every
hand. Suitable for writing in every position, glide
OVer any paper, and never scratch or spurt.
Ask your Stationer for a 6d. Sample Box of Ball-Pointed Pens.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and '
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELtS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
Trade maR* 4 *
and Chemists
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC.
BOV R I L
THE MIGHTY ENERGISER
stimulates, nourishes and sustains without digestive efforts.
The Power of Beef is in BOVRIL.
Weak, Sickly Men and Women would do well to read this letter.
THIS
MEDICINE
GIVES
VITAL
POWER
AND
STRENGTH.
fs
IT
GIVES
APPETITE
AND
RELIEVES
NERVOUS
FEARS.
Mrs. Parkinson , of the Bundemar Hotel , Trahgie , writes :
“I wish to inform you of benefits derived. I suffered much from
indigestion. No medicines did me good. Your tonic, of which I
took a course of eight bottles, cured my ailments. I was run down,
could not eat or sleep, had pains all over, did not care if I lived or
died. I could not sit behind a horse for nervous fears. Now I
can drive a trap and pair. We keep an hotel, and my customers
remark what a DIFFERENT WOMAN I AM, and I tell them I
have to thank Clements Tonic for the good it did me.
“(Signed) FRANCES N. PARKINSON.”
Various professional persons recommend this tonic because it is pregnant with
those properties which rebuild the constitution. Nurses associated with some of the
largest institutions in the Commonwealth have written in terms of appreciation of its
beneficial effects upon convalescent patients. That it helps Nature to regain her
strength is undoubted.
This testimony shows what a health-restorer this medicine is, and what years of strength and
health anaemic women may enjoy through its use. It relieves biliousness, sick headache, weakness,
low spirits, loss of appetite, poor blood, wasting diseases, constipation and indigestion. It lengthens
women’s lives, and gives them years of happiness. All chemists and stores sell it in Australia.


ECONOMY.
Cerebos Salt, although so
good is not at all expensive
—three or four tins a’re
quite sufficient for all the
meals of an average family
for 12 months.
Ctrcbos
Saar
Agents—Harrison <s* Attivood, Sydney .
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
g
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anjone, on ten days* approval, ouz
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Lar e i roflt*
easily made. Write at once, using tufflcient postnge,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine. ,
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ d*. 2 eo LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GIJL/TINAN, Agent,
157 Clarenca Street, SYDNEY.
BLED TO DEATH
♦
NOBODY KNEW FIRST-AID.
♦
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.
In the absence of the knowledge of the prin-
ciples of first-aid by those about him, Thomas
Howland, farmer, 50 years of age, bled to death
to-day at his home, four miles from Dimboola.
Howland knocked an ulcerous sore and burst a
varicose vein near the ankle. His daughter
attempted to stanch the bleeding by applying
flour, but this had no effect, and he died within
10 minutes.
The above news item will serve to show how fallacious
is the opinion held by many sufferers from Varicose
Veins that they are “ really not dangerous.”
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, or have a relation or
friend who does, and if the veins should burst, would you
know what to do ? bet us send you an illustrated free
book describing Varicose Veins in all their forms, the
methods to adopt in bandaging, and the course to pursue
if they should burst. This book also fully describes the
Vecsey Method of treating and curing Varicose Veins
without operations.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of
Treatment comes as a great boon. Previous to its dis-
covery no painless, permanent palliative was known.
It cures the veins absolutely, and once cured they do
not return.
Do not fail to send for our free book, which gives full
information and particulars. Post free to any address
upon receipt of 2d. stamp. Call for free advice.
THE VECSEY VARIX=ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney.
Take Lift to Second Floor.
[606
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
M
PAT
NT3
Collison&Go.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
Sold Everywhere.
I/O (Si 2/0.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
BONNINCTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
benefi ial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” an
see that you get it.
S O~N.NC-»“»
irish J*? 5
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
‘ OUR. JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS” Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlic k’s
Malted Milkisan
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
sick-
ness
*
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
A t
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
H orlick’s.
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples : 82?, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co. Slough. Eng.
Cfjrrtziy^
%
1
Latest Evolution of Modern Pharmacy.
“ GOLCRYST ” is a Combination of
Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger.
crystals dissolve in water, forming
a Blood-Purifying and Rheumatism-Curing
Aperient Medicine.
SOLD IN 3d., 6d. and Is. PACKETS.
Write for Free Sample to the Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., MELBOURNE.
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
w.
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
A LIGHT TREAD
When you wear Wood-Milne
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly —your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the.
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOODMILNE
RUBBER HEELS
are made in Britain, from new,
resilient rubber: they enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give
a surprising feeling of buoyancy
and vigour.
Look for the name Wood-Milne on
every heel, and refuse all imitations.
dfg
sf
gsdf
Longchamps race-track, Paris, in the tea rooms
where fashion’s leaders meet, in the great dress-
making establishments of the Rue de la Paix.
Then our ideas were developed on the human
form, and our D & A Diredoire is the result.
See it before buying your new corset.
For Sale at all leading drapers. A-4
THE DOMINION CORSET COMPANY, QUEBEC, Can.
lines are graceful,
smooth flowing, healthy lines
like the Venus Medeci —not
broken, injurious, and harsh as
produced by the ordinary corset.
Nature intended you to have graceful, smooth
and flowing lines —these are the lines our new
Corset, the D & A Diredtoire gives you.
The resultant health you’ll enjoy by wearing
the D & A Diredtoire —the resultant fine shapely
physique are Nature’s smiles of approval.
We looked the fashion centres of the world
over in our quest for a perfect corset.
Our designers studied the styles at the
CANADIAN
CORSET
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR TH E BULLTIN.]
Two Days Ago.
Still the violets’ perfume lingers ;
Still the silent room
Rings with laughter sweet and low
She laughed here two days ago
She was e’er a merry one !
Still the silence breathes a sound
Soft as leaves make, turning browned,
Sleepy lips to kiss the sun,
Still the same things—hers and mine ;
Tender signs of feminine
Vanity, like blossoms cling—
Dainty bits of coloring—
Round a man’s unlovely weeds ;
Little things a woman loves—
Chiffons, laces, ribbons, gloves—
Cling as they divined his needs.
Why she went I do not know ;
Here she sang two days ago. . . .
’Twas a day of ecstasy ;
’Mid the green hills dreaming we—
All-forgetting toil anon—
Rambled far knee-deep in flowers,
Singing of this love of ours. . . .
Rambled till the sun was gone.
Then to supper, home again ;
There the remnants still remain. ; . .
Glasses with the rims still wet,
And a faded violet
Peeping from the sugar-bowl!
Tiny footprints to the door
Mark the dusty, naked floor. . . .
To what undiscovered goal ?
On the couch, beside her plate,
Half a box of chocolate,
Cigarette-ends, half a score
Sexless hairpins on the floor.
I have counted them, tip-toe,
Up and down, a thousand times,
Starting at the hourly chimes;
What strange impulse bade her go ?
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Hills.
I love the stern, unbending hills ;
I love their hint of dormant might ;
Sing me no songs of laughing rills,
Nor smiling vales with flowers bedight.
But sing to me, the hills for theme,
The giant hills that drowse by day,
And wake to life when mortals dream
To hear old ocean chant his lay.
The hills are dark and stern and sad ;
Some ancient wrong they seem to know ;
Some searing grief they must have had,
When earth was young, long, long ago.
Beneath a mask of sleep they hide
The bursting ire that feeds their hate ;
Aloof from all, in sullen pride,
They nurse their wrath, and grimly wait.
N.S.W.
P.J.D.
Overland to Suez.
The white-lipped Indian liners
Sail out across the Bay
With throbbing, thrashing engines
And fo’c’s’les wet with spray.
They go due east to Suez,
The same old P. and O.
That ran the mails to Suez
Nigh three score years ago,
When, up at ancient Cairo
Where Nile sweeps broad and blue,
A hundred camels waited
To take the mail-bags through—
To grunt across to Suez,
To dry and dusty Suez,
To tramp across the desert
The way the camels do.
For ninety miles the desert
Lay stark beneath the light
Of stars that moved in millions
Through depths of tropic night.
And in the midnight quiet
The camels swung along
Till, stirred by recollection,
A driver sang a song
Of some fair Arab maiden
Whose voice was sweet and low—
Across the sand to Suez
A long, long time ago.
From London Town to Suez,
To lazy, lonely Suez,
They dared the blazing desert
Where wild siroccos blow.
The black-topped Indian liners
Sweep through the great Canal
That makes the trip to Suez
A water carnival.
They go by sea to Suez,
The same old P. and O.
That ran the Indian service
Some sixty years ago,
When up at ancient Cairo,
Where Nile’s broad current sails.
A hundred camels kneeling
Were loaded up with mails,
To grunt across to Suez,
Through sand and sun to Suez,
Across the cruel desert
To take the English mails.
MAOEILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
*n<*'■ * ' ' *
v * i. v v v v.'v D *
> ■*• v a. a i v > <
3P&
CLOSED AS COUCH.
sy^ii
***=
«•**#
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
') 4 • 1 v •»
SYDNEY;
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Packet of Ten
Gd
.. 5d
If You Want a
Good Vehicle,
read this Mr
At the late Royal Agricultural Show
W. Dwyer’s Buggies and Sulkies
WERE AWARDED
10 FIRST PRIZES, 2 SPECIAL PRIZES, 2 GOLD
MEDALS, 1 SECOND PRIZE.
This is sure proof of /their excellent qualities.
Factories - - - WOLLONGONG and BYDNEY
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALGOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
0
Omeqa
The Watch of
Matchless Merit
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy”—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts—accuracy in assembl-
ing them —and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
g
CIGARETTES.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN, VIRGINIAN.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Wholesale Agents for Australia.
w
W ‘
mt
'
f
■
f
(AUSTRALIA) LTD.
STRAND
CORNER,
412 George Street, Sydney.
HANDSOME WEDDING PRESENTS in Sterling Silver and Electroplate.
THOSE of you who are interested in approaching Weddings should make a point of
inspecting our fine selection of High-Grade Goods. As we purchase direct from
only the actual manufacturers for Spot Cash, you may be sure of getting supreme
value for every shilling spent with us. Our stocks are always up-to-date each week
sees new shipments arriving. If you are unable to call, write for our new Art
Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully illustrated in fine art cover. We post it Free 1
m
H
P-m
No. G4236—Finest quality Silverplate on
Hard White Metal, Embossed Pattern
Biscuit Box, £2/7/6.
No. B499o—Finest quality Silverplate on Hard'
White Metal, Revolving Vegetable Dish;-- Kach
dish can be removed and used separately.
£6/6/= . ,
No. 5263—Best quality Silver-plated
2-Bottle Inkstand, 16/6.
No. J26ls—Solid Silver
Flower Vase, 8 inches
high, 21/-
No. G4269—Finest quality Sheffield Silverplate
Asparagus Dish, with Removable Rack, £2.
No. J2BB2 —Pine Cut Glass and Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Dinner Cruet, 16/ t .
Other designs at 27/6, 37/6, SO/-
No. F 4849 —Embossed and Fluted
Silverplated Fern Pot—
.4in., 22/6 4jin., 27/6
sfin., £2 Bin., £3/7/6
No. H2o9s—Handsome Claret
Jug', Finest Cut Glass and
Silverplate, £3/15/-
Others at 16/6, 25/-, 35/-, 60/-
No. G2sB4—Finest quality Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Triple-Expanding
Biscuit Box, £B/10/=
No. F942l—Six Solid Silver Afternoon Cake Forks
with Mother of Pearl Handles, in Silk-lined Case, £3
No. H366—Pine Polished Oak Tray, with best
quality Silverplated Piefced Border Mounts,
20 inches ions', £4/10/=
Other designs from £l/5/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1585.
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 1910.
Price 6d.
* * • i II I o
THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER.
George Reid has been made a member of the Carpenters’ Guild in London .—Cable.
“THE CARPENTER SAID NOTHING BUT ‘LET’S SPREAD THE BUTTER THICK!’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.’’
Printed and Published by William Maclicoo. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business , 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Sir
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc... and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maolkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case he addressed to the Editor,
hut to the Manager. To send, them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
oficials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A nstralian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 5000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill he returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it, is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone, supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to he re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; a,nd on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at UfO per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Tlolborn, London. W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson. Stationery Co.. Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, kb 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Ped.de.r-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6sin. x Ikin.,
ivill be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
T^e’^'aUdz/Ji.
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 1910.
THE REAL FLEET AND THE MEL-
BOURNE CUP FLEET.
With the meeting of the Australian Parliament
at hand there has been a recrudescence of the
argument about this country’s new naval base.
The latest woe has been the howl of some miser-
ably narrow-souled and unpatriotic Victorians
concerning what they call “ the claims of Western
Port,” and promptly there arose on the shores of
Port Jackson an answering howl about the often-
mentioned “claims of Sydney.” And the rival
howlers seem as far as ever from realising that
there are no claims except those of Australia—a
place that is hardly j ever mentioned in the
wretched, sordid, twopenny quarrel. The matter
is one on which the salvation or the ruin of the
Commonwealth mayoneday depend, but thesalva-
tion or the ruin of Australia doesn’t count with the
squad of grasping Iscariots who are running this
controversy;. The only consideration which
appeals to them is that, if the naval base can be
fixed at “our” city, it will cause a certain in-
crease of population and a certain accession of
outward importance ; also the sailors, dockyard
artisans, etc., will spend a certain amount of
money locally on beer, slop clothes and other
necessaries of life. Likewise if “our” city, no
matter how unfit, becomes the naval centre there
will be.the supreme joy of having aggravated the
fellow in the other city—our reptile contemporary,
as it were. It is a ease of selling a great country
fora pot of beer and a childish grudge. To an
Australian who loves his native land the wicked-
ness and meanness of it all are unspeakable.
The question will probably come up for
settlement next session ; therefore it is justifiable
to once more set forth the facts and circumstances,
even at the risk of being monotonous. The first
essential of a naval base is that it must be, as nearly
as possible, purely naval. That principleis acted
upon by every country which possesses any navy
worth mentioning, and any naval traditions worth
considering. There should be room in the naval
harbor to manoeuvre and to train recruits without
running into, or being run into by, scores of
steamers, ships, ferry-boats and sundries. There
should be scope for big-gun practice without
wrecking the windows of any adjacent lar.e town
and scaring women and horses into fits. The
naval defences should not be under the con-
stant observation of a large population,
including as many thousand foreigners —
possibly hostile foreigners—as choose to
drift that way. There should be no cosmopolitan
city at hand where the sailors and dockyard
artisans may blab important secrets in war-time,
or when war is looming, after being carefully
beered up by affable and designing strangers.
The authorities at the naval port should be able,
at all times, to issue a cast-iron decree that any
atid every vessel which attempts to enter the
harbor will be fired upon and either turned back
or sunk. That is impossible in a place like Sydney
without utterly destroying commerce; yet it is the
only safeguard against the disguised torpedo boat,
or the vessel with a mission to lay mines, or the
craft with a cargo of dynamite and a sub-
marine ram—marauders of the sea that come
along professing to be mere honest old tramps
with nothing more dangerous on board than
groceries and bales of softgoods. For it must be
borne in mind that in time of war, or threatened
war, every passing ferry-boat, yacht, steam or oil
launch, collier or coaster—or rather every passing
vessel which looks in the darkness like one of
these —means a chance of a sudden torpedo
attack, and the same kind of ruin as that which
struck the careless Russians at Port Arthur, and
the only security lies in making it a boiler-
metal regulation that nothing of the sort
Shall be allowed to pass. Then in such a
harbor as that of Sydney every foot of
shore contains, in troubled times, possibilities
in the way of lurking enemies with devices
for the blowing up of arsenals, magazines and
dockyarks. Where a harbor is reserved for naval
purposes the safe policy in war-time is to
warn off everybody who doesn’t belong to the ser-
vice ; but to do that at Pola or Rosy th is one thing,
and to chase all Sydney into the bush, however
urgent the necessity, is quite another.
■A * * *
Furthermore, a naval base requires stupendous
fortifications to make it efficient. If a partly
disabled fleet retreats into it for repair and to
get its second wind, the shore defences should be
strong enough to prevent the enemy following.
That means the purchase of much land for defence
purposes, and where there is a large population
land is expensive. Moreover, the population is a
handicap. If a maniac Government puts the
naval base alongside a big city, and, still worse,
alongside one like Sydney which can be shelled
from the ocean, the enemy will have every
right, by all the rules of war, to destroy the
place, unless the disabled vessels come out
and surrender. In such a case the city
becomes a hostage. Again, in a country like
Australia sea distances are immense, and it is
most essential to have the naval base as near as
possible to the probable place of attack. Australia
may be threatened from the direction of the Cape
of Good Hope ; but it is much more likely to be
attacked from the north, where lie China, Japan,
Asiatic Russia, the Germans in Papua, the Dutch
in Java, and the Yankees in the Philippines.
Also, it is much more likely, as a mere matter of
distances, that a surprise attack will come from
the north. But whichever way the attack came,
the fleet, with its base anywhere on the coast of
N.S.W. or Victoria, would either have to let
the enemy capture towns and destroy ship-
ping along some 2000 miles of coast, or
else it would have to fight so far from its
base that, supposing things went wrong, its dis-
abled ships would never reach their port of
refuge. A crippled ironclad can’t be towed 2000
miles with a victorious enemy close behind all the
time. For this reason, all the places—Sydney,
Melbourne, Western Port, etc. —about whose
wretched “claims” so much has been heard, are
utterly unfit. Western Port, because there is no
city upon it, is far the best of the three, but its
situation should put it out of court. As a matter
of fact, no one base will serve Australia—not even
Port Darwin. Two at least are absolutely
essential—one in North Queensland or there-
abouts where the fleet could rendezvous if trouble
threatened from Asia, and one in Westralia
to meet the case of a danger approaching from
Europe. That is how the interests of Australia
lie. As for the silly theory that either Sydney or
Melbourne has a special right, because of its size,
to have the great naval battle fought on its front
doorstep, that should be utterly ignored. It is a
strange, mad business in any case—this desire that
the sea-fight Should be as close to “us” as
possible, that it shall be into “our ” harbor that
the disabled ships will crawl forrefuge if things
go wrong, and that it will be “ our ” particular
city that the enemy will attack next day in order
to force the surrender of the crippled vessels.
■* * * *
Apparently quite a large section of the com-
munity, as well as the bulk of a supremely idiotic
morning press, can’t get beyond the old ideas and
the old ways. Hitherto, we have had a summer
afternoon sea-force of feeble little craft which
were quite incapable of serious fighting and Clidn’t
mean to try. There was never even a second-
class battleship among them. They were built
abroad, so there was no need for naval dockyards
and arsenals here, and the problem about good
sites for such things didn’t arise. The questions of
fortifying the naval base so as to make it an im-
pregnable harbor of refuge in war time, and the
wiping out of dangerously exposed places like
Manly, Watson’s Bay and Coogee to make way for
shoredefences never cropped up either, for our Me-
lbourne Cup Fleet was intended to bolt at the first
sign of danger. It was never necessary to stop all
harbor traffic in Port Jackson after sunset, or to
imtimate that any vessel trying to enter the
Heads during the hours of darkness would Vie
Sunk, Or to sow Port Jackson with mines to the
grievous blowing up of the ferry boats, or to take
any of the other regular precautions against an
enemy’s disguised torpedo-boats. The insignifi-
cance" of the Regatta Squadron protected it. It
wasn’t worth blowing up. It was never even
necessary to arrest all the strangers in the city in
a search for foreign agents bent on destroying
the naval stores and so on, for there were none
worth mentioning to destroy. There was not
even a need at any time to chase the lovers
away from the shores of Farm Cove, or to
fire on and sink the skiff in which Billo
and Micro and Johnno insisted on hang-
ing round the warships at midnight under
pretence of fishing ; the Summer Holiday Fleet
never took itself seriously enough to dream that
Billo and Micro and Johnno might be disguised
enemies with dynamite aboard. In those halcyon
days any place—provided there were some nice
girls and a good racecourse—served for the
ships to anchor in. There was no Australian
naval base at all ; the base was in England. But
the period of the Afternoon Tea Navy is passing,
and the British nation has served Australia with a
plain and unmistakable notice that it is time for
this country to go in for the Real Thing. And
the Real Thing is not two or three dilettante im-
ported ships stationed in an unfortified harbor, as
far away as possible from any possible scene of
action, and a handful of officers on the look out
for rich girls to marry, and a crowd of loose-
tongued seamen drinking with all and sundry in
the water-side public-houses of a big city.
AGAIN THE UNDEFENDED FRONT
DOOR.
Many years ago—so many years ago that it was
even before the time when the Devil died and
Hell became full of water —Australia began to
realise that the Northern Territory is its weak
point, and its sleep has been more or less disturbed
ever since. The Territory lies near to Asia and
far from effective assistance. It is the emptiest
part of the continent because the spread of popu-
lation began from the old settlements—Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane atid Perth—and
the most remote place had the worst chance. It
and the western strip of Queensland comprise the
one part of Australia which isn’t yet really Aus-
■ tralia, but merely a British Crown colony, held on
sufferance and administered under a sort of casual
authority which is liable to be repealed at any
moment. The definite transfer of the Territory
was promised when the transcontinental line from
Adelaide should be finished ; but the line isn’t
finished, and because of that Australia remains
unfinished also. The menace of Asia looms
larger every year, and Britain, which used to be
looked upon as the sure refuge in time of trouble,
has given up all attempts to maintain the two-
Power standard of naval efficiency, and intimates
plainly that it no longer professes to carry the
whole dead weight of empire single-handed. The
situation has become so acute that something
large and decisive must be done if White Aus-
tralia is to have a fair chance of remaining above
ground. Therefore it is gratifying to learn that
the FiSHKR Government has resolved to give the
old Deakin-Price agreement —the one which was
last year accepted by a large majority in the
House of Representatives and rejected by a very
small one in the Senate—another run for its
money. How much depends on the result nobody
in this country really knows, though possibly the
Japanese Government has an idea.
* * * *
Supposing the agreement to be rejected, it is
fairly certain that the South Australian Parlia-
ment will then repeal the Act by which it offered
the Territory to the Commonwealth, and resume
railway building towards the north on its own
account. That will be far better than leaving the
Territory undeveloped and isolated as it has been
in the past; but it will be a poor substitute for
Federal occupation and Federal ownership. A
State-owned line will be a narrow-gauge one, for
South Australia can’t afford anything better, and
a 3ft. 6in. road is a poor thing on which to carry
express traffic. The process of building will be
slow, whereas it ought to be just as fast as human
ingenuity can make it. The east and west con-
nections with the Queensland ports on one side
and those of northern Westralia on the other will
be merely such as South Australia cares to give or
such as it can afford, which probably means that,
for a long time, there will be none at all; yet
such connections are wanted early ; in fact, a
northern transcontinental railway running east
and west from, say, Townsville on one side to the
Westralian coast on the other, will become an
urgent work as soon as the Territory begins to
fill up, and such a work shouldn’t be ham-
pered by the caprice or impecuniosity of
any one State. And if South Australia has
to shoulder as its own separate responsi-
bility the building of the great line to Port
Darwin, it will probably withdraw its consent to
the construction of a Federally-owned railway
through its territory to Westralia. For so doing
it can offer the plain business explanation that it
wants copper it can raise for its own big
job, and that if it has to pay the whole
cost of the northern line out of its own scarce and
depleted pocket it can’t afford to pay out of the
same pocket its share (a tenth or thereabouts) of
the western undertaking. So many things de-
pend on the acceptance or rejection of the
Northern Territory proposals that it isn’t too
much to say that the whole future of Australia is
in the balance.
* * * #
Three-fourths of the trouble over the Northern
Territory agreement arise out of inability to realise
the greatness b.f this country’s possibilities. There
has been a frantic clawing to drag the Port Darwin
railway round by “ our ” State and to deviate it
through “our ” backyard, apparently because of
ah impression that there is never going to be any
other railway, and that if “ we ” don’t get hold of
this particular railway “ we ” are for ever undone.
Yet Australia, as a matter of fact, isn’t yet at the
beginning of its career as a builder of great
Federal railways, instead of being near the end,
as some people seem to suppose. The line run-
ning north and south, through western Queens-
land and western N.S.W., to connect Victoria
with the Gulf of Carpentaria, is as certain to
arrive/as the sunrise, barring such chances as
conquest by some savage race, Judgment Day,
or the complete supercession of railways by aerial
navigation. A similar line through Westralia is
equally inevitable—again barring judgment Day
and the other contingencies. The proposed line
from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie, which is to link
the East and the West along the southern coast,
will have its duplicate in the North, and there will
be others. Nobody in his senses regards the
Port-Augusta-Port Darwin track as the one and
only connection with the North ; all that is claimed
for it is that it is the one that ought to be built
first. It is by far the shorter route of the
two now under discussion, and a considerable
amount of work has already been done on it;
therefore it can be built with the smallest expen-
diture of time and money, both of which are
precious. It crosses the comparatively barren
country at about its narrowest part. It traverses
the only part of Central Australia that has a
reliable rainfall. There is underground water
almost everywhere on the route, and at a very
moderate depth. Above all, the straight line
will put the North into direct communication with
Adelaide, the city to which it must look for first
assistance in war time. Brisbane is not only
more remote from Port Darwin, bv land, but it
is also so much nearer by sea to Torres Strait,
and the general direction of an enemy’s
attack that when the North most wants
its aid it will be busy providing for its
own security. There are alleged to be certain
hazy interests connected with bullocks or some-
thing of the sort, which would be better served
by the long eastern deviation ; but the first con-
sideration is to provide, to the best of our ability,
for the safety of Australia. Even such an over-
whelming consideration as bullocks takes a
secondary place in these rather ominous times.
CUT DEEP.
“ Hekmes ” speaks words of warning :
When Labor swept the polls on April 13 the Tory press
was struck dumb. But when it recovered its wind it
found that there was a silver lining even then show-
ing through the cloud of its discontent. Labor theories
were impracticable, and three years’ experience with
Labor supreme in both House and Senate would really
prove a blessing in disguise. Labor at the next elec-
tion would be judged on its record by a sadder and
wiser Australia ; and that record, the Tory press was
confident, would prove that the party’s ideals were
opposed to natural and economic law, and altogether in-
capable of realisation. Although it was staggered by
the deluge that had swamped the Fusion, Toryism
had already realised that its game was Delay,
and Procrastination its only weapon. Almost on
the same day that its press made the discovery
that there was a silver lining it also blundered on to the
fact that, after all, Andrew Fisher and his colleagues
represented the moderate section of Labor and hot the
extremist division. It hailed Fisher and his possible
colleagues as safe men, and when the Ministry was finally
chosen it was delighted to find that its prognostication
was correct. The Cabinet was a level-headed body that
wouldn't leap wildly in the dark like a kangaroo on a
moonless night, or tear up the home by the roots.
Responsibility (blessed word !) would have a steadying
effect on it. Toryism thanked its joss with tears that
the Ministry was composed of men who had a sense of
their tremendous responsibilities.
* * * *
It was all part of the policy of Procrastination. The
Fisher Ministry is the beginning of a new era. For the
first time in the history of the White Race a whole
country is ruled by a Government representative of the
people who work with hand and brain. Hitherto all
Governments have represented either an Aristocracy, a
Plutocracy, a Military Caste, or a Mercantile Class.
Ordinary, everyday Cabinet as it seems, the Fisher Min-
istry takes a front place among the world’s great experi-
ments. If at the end of three years it has proved incap-
able of altering the face of things the jeering Tory press
will exclaim, like the Devil in “Festus,” “Hast not had
time enough for good, O King!” And to-day, and
for nearly three years to come, the Tory press
lives to prevent the Fisher Ministry finding enough
time for good. When the proposal to issue Government
currency notes began to loom on the horizon of coming
things, from every Tory paper went up a shout that the
thing was impracticable; that it was a fearful step,
fraught with vast, indefinite possibilities, which must be
approached most cautiously. Next week the same
papers will be urging that the whole momentous ques-
tion should be inquired into exhaustively by a Royal
Commission. The “level-headed men” are to be im-
pressed that this is a case for searching inquiry—that by
a rash step they may ruin their cause and bring disaster
on the country. Great bankers fled from Sydney to col-
logue with great bankers in Melbourne, that they might
jointly urge upon the Government the necessity of pro-
ceeding with intense caution and at the pace of a dead
tortoise. A Royal Commission is the thing. It will eat
up more time than any other animal, and in the mean-
time something may turn up. The Fisher Government
will also be urged to wait for next election, so that it may
lay the “ revolutionary " proposal before the people. It
is always called “revolutionary,” regardless of the fact
that the scheme has been tested and found excellent by
three-fourths of the population of the British Empire.
Then it happened to be found out that there are
Enormous difficulties in the way of levying a Federal
land-tax. Such a tax is collected by the central
Government in huge countries like Russia, India and
China, but here the obstacles (Heaven only knows why)
are Tremendous. In fact, the collection of the money so
bristles with difficulties that it is only possible with the
co-operation of the States, and before going on with the
necessary legislation it will be necessary—after very long
negotiation, of course —to come to some arrangement
with the State Governments. At present all the States,
it is affirmed, impose some sort of land-tax ; but they
levy it on adifferent basis—some on the unimproved value,
some on the Capital value. Without the co-operation of
the States’ Lands Departments anything like a uniform
scheme of valuation is alleged to be impbssible. The
creation of a Commonwealth Land Valuation Depart-
ment would involve the raising of an army of valuators
and clerks, and the cumbrousness of the business would
practically prevent the Australian Government collecting
any land-tax revenue much before next election. Really,
the only way is to secure the sympathy and co-operation
of the States. It is a charming suggestion—from the
standpoint of the party that desires delay'. Fisher and
his whole Ministry would probably be under the daisies
before the States began to sympathise and co-operate.
* * * *
These are straws which show the direction of the Con-
servative breeze. The great idea is to procrastinate,
to hang up, to refer to Royal Commissions, to negotiate
with the States ; and the valuable time of probation is
running out all the while. Three years means little
more than 18 months of legislation, and a few Roy al
Commissions and a few negotiations with the States
would find 18 months little more than a breakfast. Then
it is hoped that when the day of judgment arrives the
Labor Government will stand disgraced as the Government
which failed to do anything. The very papers and people
that now howl for careful investigation and rise daily
to point out the dangers of hasty action will then be the
first to shriek that the Labor Government’s failure to
rush work through is the paramount reason why it
should be thrown out. They will suddenly’ discover that
anything is better than stagnation ; and the people who
have pinned their faith to the Labor Government will be
shaken, while those—probably even a larger body’r—who
voted to give it a trial will be estranged and their votes
alienated. If Labor is to continue to rule Australia, it
must be The Party' that Does Things, not The Crowd
which Investigates Everything but Builds Nothing,
* * * •*
Therefore the writer urges the Fisher Ministry to get
a move on from the moment Parliament opens. Let the
Opposition do the talking and the Government sup-
porters be content with voting. Let Things be Done
with such rapidity that by the time the elections of 1913
arrive the people of Australia will have tangible proof
that the Labor policy is good for Australia. The time is
short, yet if, by 1913, there is no sign of a breaking-up of
the huge estates or of the creation of an effective system
of defence by land and sea, or of the smashing of mono-
polies, the result will probably be the return of a Tory
Government to power.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cat that Was Not Identified.
That darkly-brooding person, N.S.W. State
Premier Wade, still sits apart wrapped in his
veil of mystery, and refuses to supply particulars.
It is a habit he has. First, he insinuated that if
he felt so disposed he could tell something murky
and horrible about certain Labor members, or
about one member anyhow. The Labor party
urged him to be as murky and horrible as he
liked. He refused to murk, but his lieutenant,
Fitzpatrick, rushed into the breach and declared
that some Labor member, said to represent a coal-
mining constituency, had gone to Wade, and
after exacting a pledge of secrecy—which, if the
story was true, Wade must have broken, else
Fitzpatrick couldn’t have known about the .
matter —had urged him to push on the measure
under which Peter Bowling was sent to; gaol,
and had even asked that it should be made
more stringent than it was. The Labor members
from the coal districts enthusiastically released
Wade from any oath or alleged oath of secrecy,
and demanded that a name should be given.
Wade said nothing in particular; but Fitz-
patrick then accused Grahame. Grahame
denied every word of the charge. He implied as
clearly as possible that either Fitzpatrick was a
liar when he said that Wade told him of Gra-
H.ame’s alleged doings, or that Wade was a liar who
had invented abase story and retailed it to Fitz-
patrick. That was the only possible interpreta-
tion of Grahame’s attitude. Wade was urged to
rise up and defend himself from Grahame’s asper-


sion. He replied that he “didn’t want to be
dragged into it.’’ Naturally he was asked
why he had dragged himself into it.
Being further pressed, he said that he hadn’t
authorised Fitzpatrick to say anything, and that
he hadn’t repeated anything that had heen said
to him in confidence. He didn’t say how, under
these circumstances. Fitzpatrick got his alleged
information, and Fitzpatrick didn’t say either.
He didn’t say that Fitzpatrick’s yarn was false,
nor did he say it was true. Now that the cat was
out of the bag, there was nothing to be gained by
further reticence ; but Wade absolutely refused
to state whether it was his cat or not. He
wouldn’t identify the animal. He had commencd
all the trouble by needlessly stating that there
was a cat. and then he requested that nobody
should talk about cats. Wade occupies a
very remarkable position in this cat business.
He won’t speak to clear his follower Fitzpatrick
from Grahamk’s plainly implied charge of
being a gross perverter, nor to clear him-
self from Graiiame’s alternative implication
to the same effect. He just broods darkly
in the background attired in the cloak of secrecy,
which is a beastly thin garment this cold weather.
The Bogus Caucus Menace.
The Sydney Telegraph is a hard paper to please
these democratic days. Last Thursday one of its
leading articles was a prolonged moan entitled
“ Parliamentary Inefficiency.” It was suggested
that “an enlightened community” had grown
sick of “Parliament’s floundering unwieldiness
and eccentric procedure.” Referring to the No
Confidence debate in the N.S.W. Assembly, the
paper complained that the “ three sitting days of
the Assembly last week covered 131 pages of
Hansard print.” And then the paper went on
this way :
A vast flood-flow of useless talk—probably another 140
or 150 pages of the record—will be filled. And that will be
the net result to the public. . . Parliament seems to
be insensible to otherwise universal notions of economy
of effort and application to work. Alone it does recog-
nisedlv purposeless things over and over again. . . This
perverse way of what may be complimentarily called
“doing business” has a doubly bad effect, in that it not
only wastes the public money and time, but actually pre-
vents the public’s business being attended to. The
session is gabbled away until its inevitable closing time
approaches, and often then a large proportion of the Hills
that have been prepared have to be jettisoned. A
“ slaughter of the innocents,” this is jauntily called by
the politician; but what are the “innocents”? The
measures which the public have been promised but kept
out of by the ponderousness of the legislative machine
and the misuses that legislators put it to. . . .
The fault is with the system. The whole institution
needs reconstructing. . . . This is the twentieth century,
the age of democracy, and no British individual or com-
munity needs the Parliamentary license that formerly
may have been necessary. Even if they did, license
itself has proved too elastic, and if there is any human
good done by politicians standing up and repeating by
hours apiece what others have said before and still others
will say again, we should like to know what it is. The
system must be modernised if Parliament is not to
become a laughing stock where it is not a hindrance to
national progress, etc., etc.
The paper, as is its wont, made no sugges-
tion to reform all this futility. It deplored the
trouble and left it at that, with the vague remark
that “the whole machinery • ought to be dras-
tically remodelled with a view to curtailment and
compression everywhere.” And another article
on the same page and date was headed “Respon-
sible Government versus Caucus Government.”
It amounted to a howl of pain at the fact that the
Labor party proposed to obviate, in the Austra-
lian Parliament, the identical evil which the
Telegraph moaned about in the N.S.W. As-
sembly. Some extracts :
The Federal Parliament has not yet been called together
for the despatch of business ; but it is in session all the
same, and settling the affairs of the Commonwealth
according to a new method. For every day there is a
meeting of the Caucus, called to decide . . . what
measures Parliament shall pass. If this system has come
to stay, it means that we have reached a new and quite
unexpected stage of development in democratic govern-
ment. We do not believe that the public realise even
vaguely the essential difference between the Caucus
methods and those which they are now about to super-
sede. Etc., etc.
And all the other anti-Labor papers are hinting,
these days, at the dreadful results that are al-
legedly going to accrue from the Labor party’s
perfectly rational scheme of meeting to discuss
the order in which its platform shall be put before
the House as a preliminary to supporting it there
without unnecessarily prolonged debate. The
advantage of discussing a measure in caucus
is that a member may say what he has
to say without any talking to the gallery
and consequent waste of time. To read the anti-
Labor papers’ protests one would think that the
country was going to burst because there is an
immediate prospect of something in the legisla-
tive line being achieved without an ocean of pre-
liminary public chatter. In the past there have been
countless ways whereby the reactionaries were
enabled tokilldemocraticmeasures—to “slaughter
the innocents,” as the Telegraph has it —and one
of them was to talk the innocents to death.
Under the system winch local Toryism deplores,
two things are certain—(l) that the measures to
which the Laborites are pledged will be put
before the House and, as long as the Labor
majority is maintained, carried ; (2) that there
will be no unnecessary, time-wasting discourse on
the Government side while this is being done.
The Tory will gas as of yore, but he will,
to a great extent, gas unanswered. It is
safe to say that “ sessions will not be gabbled
away,” as heretofore, at “a needless waste of the
public’s time and money.” The public will not
be “kept out of measures they have been pro-
mised ” —not even out of the measure which
provides for a Federal paper currency. And who
shall say these things are going to do damage ? A
graduated land-tax, an Australian navy, an
efficient land-defence force are matters that need
to be provided for promptly, not babbled
about to no purpose in Parliament. There
are no arguments hostile to those policies
that the country hasn’t already heard
from Joe Cook and his followers, and turned
down. In the past, when Governments here and
in the United Kingdom have had a mandate to
pass legislation and the necessary majority to do
it with, they have, after a certain stage, dammed
the flood of Parliamentary talk by applying the
closure or gag. The system which Toryism is now
assailing goes a little further than that; which is
to say, it is calculated to dam a little more talk.
The country will get the legislation it has asked
for with a little less irritatingly useless
verbosity than befofe. If the Telegraph and
papers like it could only look at Labor ideas with
unjaundiced eyes, they would appreciate that the
caucus scheme is an excellent one for achieving
the very time-saving reform that everyone agrees
is desirable.
*
The Tocsin from the North.
Australia, in resolving to train and equip a
citizen force for defence purposes, has certainly
done something. In fact, provided the resolve is
rushed into practice with the speed of the Sheol
Fast Express when the Devil is going home late
to tea, it may even be said that Australia has
done something considerable. Still the pre-
sence of even the best and most perfectly
equipped citizen armies in the South doesn’t
secure the defence of Australia—and the de-
fence of Australia is the one and only reason why
this country is going into the soldiering business,
at all. There is still the empty and isolated North.
There is something almost eerie about that Empty
North. It, simply will not lie down and go to
sleep and let politicians be at peace, ; One might
almost believe that it is under the aegis of a
Special Providence, whose particular business it
is, at intervals, to peal the loud and in-
sistent tocsin. Time and -again has the tocsin
pealed, and set men a-clamor in the South. Then
it ceased, and was forgotten. And each time,
when the period of forgetfulness was in
danger of merging into an era of abso-
lute oblivion, has the Special Providenqe of the
Empty North bestirred itself, and sent,along once
again the warning to Get Ready. Of late, not
much has been heard of the Empty North ; a
mild interval of oblivion had returned, and in the
ordinary course of things the tocsin was about
due. And, sure enough, it rang—this time by the
hands of two travellers, who came the other day
by different paths. The first, Mr. W. Cope,
who knows the North as well as most people,
struck this note :
There is a vast strip of countrj' in the Northern Terri-
tory, commencing: near Burketown and extending: to
Port Darwin, which may be described as No Man’s Land.
We have not even pegged out our claims there, and
millions of acres of good land are a permanent invitation
to a possible foe. The difficulties of transport and com-
missariat would not trouble an enemy, assuming that he
knew the country. He would establish a base there, and
work down into the cattle country. Then probably some
such message as this would be delivered to outlying cattle
stations:
“General presents his compliments to . By
the morning of at 6 o’clock you are required to
muster 10,000 cattle. Otherwise you will be shot.
(Signed) —-
Commander-in-Chief."
The enemy, having got his supplies and decided upon
his route, would commence his march of conquest. That
is the problem of the future.
Mr. Cope suggests, pending the doing of bigger
things, the establishment of telegraphic outposts
and military patrols as an outward and visible sign
that that bit of the earth belongs to us. The
other traveller, Mr. Horace S. Martin, of Ipok,
Perak (Malay States), rang the changes this
way:—
It is commonly thought over there that Britain made a
huge blunder in promoting the Anglo-Jap alliance ; that,
in fact, the alliance should have been Anglo-Itussian.
Right through the East since the alliance, and to a
greater degree since the Russo-Jap war, the arrogance
and insolence of the Japanese towards Europeans have at
times called for strict measures.
People over where I am consider the probable invasion
of Australia from the undefended North a real, practical
danger. They think that Australia should forc u the pace
in regard to its defences. These opinions are expressed
by foreign gentlemen, made from the standpoint of what
their respective countries would have done in similar
circumstances. They cannot understand your people
being so apathetic about their exposed position, and
being so slow to take action. Though they don’t say so
in actual words, what they do say implies : “ What fools
those poor devils of Australians are to take things so
easy.” You are a very much discussed people over there,
if you only knew it.
That’s the message of the tocsin this time ; and if
it makes the Commonwealth Government bare-
sark, and starts it out to take over the N.T., and
begin the construction of the “straight-through”
railway, and hustle some population into the
Empty Spaces all in one whooping act —then the
tocsin makes good. If it doesn’t—well, even the
most patient Special Providence gets tired in
time, and the best-built tocsin wears out, and
some day there will be no more warnings. Also,
there will be no more White Australia.
*
The Yellow Brother in Papua.
Dear Bulletin,— lt will not be the fault of the
new companies if much of the work done by the
White Australia party isn’t undone before very
long, away in Papua, where there are no daily
papers and public opinion is a rootless sort of
thing. The compulsory-labor scheme, lately
thrown out by the Commonwealth Government,
was not sweeping enough to meet the companies’
demands, even had it been enacted ; and, now
that all chance of obtaining large and constant
supplies of local labor seems to have passed away,
they are working their best for the imported
nuisance from China, Ceylon or Japan. In other
words, they are desirous of seeing the Common-
wealth Government ask back into its territory
the pests it has been trying to remove, and of
allowing them to bring with them, like the evil
spirit of sacred history, seven other devils worse
than themselves. The company man is for im-
ported labor, and it is not at all a sure thing that
he will not get it. It is becoming clear to every-
one that the Papuan alone, working at his own
will, and supplj’ing at the utmost limit about
10,000 laborers out of a population of a
million, will not be able to keep going all
the new plantations, in a few years’ time,
when they come into full growth, and
work is largely increased. The Javanese, the
Chinaman and the Jap are jumping to take his
place, and the plantation proprietor is jumping to
have them. They are cheap and fairly reliable,
and they help him to pay big dividends—and,
after all, Papua is not Australia—it is thousands
of miles from Sydney or Melbourne. . . . But it is
Only six hours’ steam from Queensland —only a
day's steam from the unprotected Northern Ter-
ritory. . . . Convenient, beyond the necessity of
comment, for the Monkey and the Orang. Desir-
able? Hardly. .. . There is another aspect of
this imported labor question which seems to have
escaped general notice. If imported labor comes
to pass, it will do a good many white laborers out
of a job. After all, why should the plantations of
Papua be worked, on Australasian soil, solely
by colored men ? What is there in the
care of rubber, the work of preparing
copra or hemp, that the white laborers of the
cane-cutting country could not undertake? The
climate is no worse. The work is scarcely aS hard.
Why should the company promoter demand the
last farthing of possible gain, at the expense of
the Australian laboring man? The latter would
cost more than an imported Chinaman. But he
would do more work ; and he would be infinitely
better for the country. “I protest,” as Mr.
PepYS would say, that I cannot see why the his-
tory of the sugar companies should be gone
through all over again in Papua, or why the
lesson learned in Queensland should be thrown
aside. Why not begin where Queensland has
ended ? The plantation country of Papua is not
like the mining country. It is usually close to the
more civilised districts, and most of it is right
along the coast. It is healthy enough, and pleasant
to live in. Excellent houses of native material,
cool and comfortable, can be put up at a small
cost, and there is always an unlimited water
supply. What is the matter with villages of
Australian workers, well paid and decently
treated, to keep the plantations going when the
pinch comes—as it will come one of these days?—
Yours, etc., Grapths.
The “Cash Order” System.
The Eternal Trader again :
Those political economists who were so righteously
indignant against the “coupon” trading system some
years ago will find a.stronger case for restrictive legisla-
tion if they look into some of the Sydney drapery shops
just now. , The original coupon system, which emanated
from the time-honored allurement of the “ tea-gift,” \\;as
not so much a fraud upon the people as a trick for leading
them into more foolishness than ordinary “shopping”
leads them into. The Coupon Co., as will be remembered,
established a number of fancy-goods stores on a parasitic
plan. It sold coupons, on certain terms, to retail
traders, in other than the fancy goods line, which
coupons, being “ given ” away tocustomers, counted ulth
mately as cash at any of the Coupon Co.’s establishments.
Coupons represented 2 h or 5 per cent, discount on all
purchases amounting to ss. or more. Women saved them
up until they amounted in face value to the price of
a more or less useless article obtainable at the coupon
shop. Of course, the people who “ gave ” coupons with
the goods were in the habit of raising their prices to
meet the case. If the buyer was a very shrewd, calcula-
ting female she presently dropped to this. She realised
that the £5 costume with which she got a ss. coupon was
probably worth not more than £4 13s. llfd., and she
probably began to suspect that the glass dish which she
obtained in exchange for her 6s. ticket at the Coupon
Co.’s store was worth only 3s. 9d. at the crockery and
glassware emporium round the corner. The coupon
business was worthy of suppression. It was a parasite.
Not merely a business incidental to another business as
many are, but a rapacious business living on a trading
system. All the same, there was nothing wildly usurious
about it.
The “Cash Order System” is usurious. The writer’s
knowledge of it was gained per medium of a syndicate or
individual advertising as “Brook,” whose address was
(or is) 240 Little Collins-street, Melbourne. “Brook”
was reluctantly supported for a time by several large
drapery firms in Melbourne, but he didn’t go on for ever
with them, like his babbling namesake in Tennyson’s
verse. Traders found that “ Brook ” was a delusion and
a snare, and now there is only one Melbourne shop where
his cash orders are accepted. But in Sydney the system
is said to be in full blast —and it ought to be d d forth-
with. “ Brook’s” circular explains the system :
“ Say that you require a cash order for £5, you pay
us at once 65., which, plus the usual trade discount
allowed us by the house from whom you buy, is
our commission. We issue the order, which you treat
exactly as you wouid a £5 bank-note (put in your purse).
You then make your purchases, paying for them after
the completion of the purchase, and repay us ss. weekly
for 20 weeks. Shortly stated, you pay for goods at Cash
Prices, and have five months' credit, at the small cost of
3d. per week. By this system you can purchase at Cash
Prices from Cash Retail Shops who mark their goods in
Plain Figures, thus avoiding Time Payment Prices.”
That is “Brook’s ” way of putting the system. The way
in which it should be put before the Legislature is as
follows :—“ Brook ” is a usurious money-lender whose
clients do not get five months’credit. Before they can
make a purchase at the shop they have to begin their
payment of 105 shillings for £5, and every week there-
after they must repay 5 per cent, of the sum originally
borrowed. At the beginning of the fourth week they
have arrived at a repayment of £1 on the “fiver”
borrowed, and by the beginning of the 10th
week the swiftly-flowing “Brook” has received
555. from the borrower of £5, who is said to be
getting five months’ credit for the full amount.
God and the money-lender only know how much interest
is levied on the loan. The writer roughly estimates it at
nearly 30 per shent. The customer is victimised, so
likewise is the trader, unless he deceives the public by
raising the price of his goods. For “ Brook ” gets whole-
sale terms from the shop. He cashes the cash orders at
15 per cent. Practically he pays for the goods that
were sold on his clients’ orders, and knocks 15 per
cent, off the account. Therefore, the big Mel-
bourne shops which thought they saw a profit
in dealing with “Brook” aforetime, have now de-
cided that they lost money on the transaction,
inasmuch as they were selling to retail customers
on wholesale terms. They couldn’t raise their prices to
meet the case. There was no means of differentiating
between the customer who bought for cash or on short
credit, and the customer who sprang a “ Brook” cash
order on them. They found that some of their old
customers who formerly paid the full retail prices were
settling the bill with cash orders on which “ Brook ”
was getting a 15 per cent, rebate, whilst they
(the customers) were paying the usurer enormous
interest for the accommodation. Had the many
big shops in Melbourne continued to dabble in
the “Brook” they would have raised the prices they
marked in “ plain figures,” and then the cash-order cus-
tomers would have been twice bled. Also, all the cus-
tomers would have been once bled, anyhow. Moreover,
“ Brook " would have been getting all the blood what-
ever way it was obtained. This is what is happening,
and must continue to happen in Sydney until “Brook ”
is dried up by Act of Parliament.
♦-
In the Balance.
The N.S.W. general election is not far off, and
the fate of the Wade Government is tottering in
the scale. But it has to be acknowledged with
regret that it isn’t tottering half as much as it
ought to totter. The victory of the Federal
Labor party a month or two ago should be as a
writing on the wall to the present Government;
but, unhappily, the State Labor party is so un-
like the Federal one that the victory of the latter
doesn’t assure that of the former—not by a very
long way. The Federal party went to the country
with a great programme. It promised, if returned,
to do a heap of big things, and the country
liked its policy and told it to go ahead and
do these things. It is difficult to find out
what large things McGowkn, Holman and
co. are going to do if they attain to power, and the
lack of a strenuous, inspiriting programme is
liable to lose them a heap of the votes which
Fishee gained. Of course, they are working in a
nai rower sphere than Fisher, and lack some of
his opportunities; yet there is room enough to be
big and statesmanlike even in State politics.
There is, for instance, the question of the Closed
Ports, about which McGowen has been fairly
definite, yet not definite enough. If his party
pledged itself absolutely to do the things that
Wade is so cumbrously inquiring about—if it
pledged itself to carry the Riverina lines right
through to Twofold Bay, and to connect the
Northern lines with Port Stephens, and to make
wharves and energetically promote commerce at
these places, and to lay out at each harbor a great
city on modern lines, and to enact that the State
should be sole ground-landlord of these cities for
ever, there would be such a stirring of the dry
bones as N.S.W. hasn’t known for a quarter cen-
tury. There is nothing impossible about the
scheme; Cain built a city, and McGowen should be
able to build two. There would be great pos-
sibilities about the promise of a Bill ordering the
immediate election, by the people of Sydney and
its environs, of a Convention to draft the plans of
a Greater Sydney. There would also be great
possibilities about a promise that the Labor
Ministry would draft the scheme of a Greater
Sydney itself and submit it to a popular vote for
acceptance. The railway isn’t built through the
city yet; it still stops at O’Sullivan’s White
Elephant. The North Shore connection is being
waited for just as it has been for 40 years and
more, and so are the suburban lines to Bondi,
Waverley and other places. There are chances
in all these things. A leader who would promise
to prepare a plan for the gradual but com-
plete re-construction of Sydney on modern lines
would make a splash 100 ft. high ; and there is
grievous need of a new Building Act for the
benefit of many N.S.W. towns where soulless
and unsesthetic Private Enterprise is now allowed
to paint its works blue and red and green, and
deck them with awful striped advertisements and
bright orange bills. A leader who would guaran-
tee to abolish borrowing, and to establish
a genuine sinking fund against all the State
debts would command a big following, even
if he had to levy an income-tax and
half a dozen other imposts to find the necessary
funds. A definite announcement that the old,
parish-minded, anti-Federal, anti-Australian atti-
tude, with which the Holman influence has so
long blighted the party, had been abandoned
would count for many votes. A promise to con-
nect the North Coast railway with Brisbane and
the Berrigan-Finley one with Melbourne would
also tend to stagger humanity in a beneficial
fashion. The community is tired of inaction and
sluggishness and drift and the old groove. It has
a regard for a leader who is full of life and elec-
tricity, and who promises to make things Hum
along new tracks. It looks with admiration on
the man who undertakes that public affairs shall
Buzz. There is always a future for that kind of
person. The misfortune is that no one can
imagine old Plodder McGowen making anything
Buzz ; while Holman has dropped into so deep a
rut that even the top of his hat has ceased to be
visible.
A Shop in Castlemaine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Messrs. Thompson and Co., of the Castlemaine foundry,
received a cable order, recently, for shipment to London
of one of their special centrifugal gravel pumps, and last
week received another cabled order for shipment to Corn-
wall of a larger similar pump, and also a nozzle pump,
intended for treating the alluvial ground on the tin-
mining fields. Messrs. Thompson will be shipping next
month to South Africa one of their suction pump
dredging plants, for working an alluvial gold mine
several hundred miles inland from Delagoa Bay, an
engineer having been sent over by them for setting up
and running the plant. They are also arranging for the
supply of a similar large dredging plant for an alluvial
tin mine in Burma.— Melbourne paper.
There’s a Shop in Castlemaine
Where the hammers in refrain
Sing a psalm of strength and splendor for this
lone Australian land ;
Where the shafting and the drills
Lift a song that grips and thrills,
And the heart grows brave within you when you
hear and understand.
There’s a good old Shop I know
Whence the pumps and engines go—
Whence the dredges travel nor’ward unto Bull
and Mandalay;
’Tis a shop that sings to me
In a major fighting key—
Sings a song of faith and courage for To-morrow
and To-day;
Where the lathes and planers hum,
Hear ye not a battle drum—
Hear ye not a call to labor, leaving idols false and
vain ?
Hear the song the foundry sings—
Leave the tawdry, useless things—
Seems to me I hear Australia in the shop at
Castlemaine !
» “ Sons o’ mine." she calleth us.
Urgeth us and thralleth us—
,l Sons o’ mine, a Continent is here to grasp and
till;
Engineers and laborers.
Be trumpeters and tahorers—
Go win for me this Commonwealth ivith strength
and grit and skill ! ”
Calls the cable under sea
For the Shop’s machinery—
African and Cornishman who dredge the distant
soil,
They are calling for the pumps,
So the big steam-hammer thumps
And the foundry sings exultantly its song of
Common Toil!
Sings the fitter in his “ blues ”
And the slide rest-cutting crews—
The Whitworth-chuck is murmuring, the boring-
bar says “I’m
.Tust a bit of ‘ centred ’ steel,
But I think and know and feel—
A song I sing of victory and battle-faith sublime ! ”
And the anvils and the fires
Sing of deeper-down desires—
The land that yearns for nationhood, as yearned
young Greece and Spain ;
He who hears and understands
Hears entreaties and commands—
Hears Australia’s fighting message in the Shop at
Castlemaine : j .
“Sons of strength and sturdiness,
Be done with talk and. wordiness —
Make end of foolish quarrcllings'! Put ships upon
the sea /”
’ Tis thus A ustralia stirreth us ;
■She goadeth us and spurreth us—
Her., voice demandeth constantly our skill and
industry!
-w, 1 -
And the big Australian dredge,
With its buckets, edge to edge,
An emblem is of victory and mighty days to come;
And the Burtnan far away,
When the dredge lifts mud and clay,
He knoweth not but listeneth unto Australia’s
drum !
For the toiling engineers
Are the masters of the years—
Are makers of our destinies and builders of this
Land ;
Yea, our standard-bearers are
Men with drill and boring-bar—
Who hear Australia calling them and serve with
faithful hand !
So the cable under sea
Sings a song of loyalty,
A song of steadfast laboring—who hears it with
disdain ?
Smiths and fitters in their “ blues,”
With their brains and skill and thews.
Are makers of our Nationhood—Hail ! Shop at
Castlemaine:
V ‘ ‘ Sons o’ mine ”/ — Who calleth tis,
Who urgeth us and thralleth us ?
A* continent is waiting here for us to grasp and
I till ;
Her trumpeters and tahorers
Are engineers and laborers
Who sweat to build, the Commonwealth ivith Strength
* and Gr it and Skill !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERV[?].


Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving; Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
SydrTey—-386 George St. ; Melbourne—266 Collins St.
Brisbane—93-95 Queen St. : Adeiaide—Gawler Place
Franz Josef Lag'er Beer.
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
Adams' Tattersalfs Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels,
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; aha ADAMS’ CAFE.
A Legal Row and its Satisfactory Finish.
The story of “Lex ” :
An interesting Tasmanian shark-fight came to an end
the other day. In 1900 a.d. Mrs. Elinor Hall was one of
the oldest, queerest and most miserly inhabitants of
Sandy Bay, near Hobart. She was worth a matter of
£40,000 sterling. Also, she had no children and no other
relatives nearer than England. William Batt, a local
bootmaker ; one Westbrook, a solicitor; and Eckford, his
managing clerk, took an interest in her and her
property. Between 1900 and 1902 she made a
will and several codicils. At the end of 1904
—being, then 86 years of age and blind and
infirm—she gave Batt a power of attorney to manage her
personal estate, and bequeathed him a share therein. A
little while afterwards she gave Westbrook instructions
for a new will. In this she appointed Batt one of her
executors, directed that her estate should he divided
into 20 parts, gave Batt five of such parts, Eckford one
part, and (subject to life-interests to relations in Eng-
land), she gave 12 parts to Westbrook. In 1909 she
died.
One of the English relatives aforementioned, finding
she had only a life-interest in part of the estate, entered
a. caveat against the will. At once Westbrook set
himself to hide from the caveator and all the
other English beneficiaries (1) that he largely bene-
fited under the will, (2) that his friend Batt was
an executor, (3) that he, Batt and Eckford were
charged in Tasmania with using undue influence to
induce Mrs. Hall to make the will. As a result, he suc-
ceeded in obtaining from the relatives in England
authority to intervene for them in an action in favor of
the will. With much adroitness Westbrook contrived to
keep his English clients quiet till probate of the will was
obtained. The action against the validity of the will
came on. The charges, of course, were testamentary in-
capacity, undue influence and ignorance on the part of
Mrs. Hall of the contents of the document. The doctor
who had witnessed it admitted that he could not say if
it was truly explained to the old woman. Things looked
bad for the will. Suddenly, mainly t hrough the agency
of the Chief Justice of Tasmania, who is great on com-
promises, a settlement was arrived at. The case was
allowed to be withdrawn, the Court no doubt believing
that Westbrook had full authority to settle on behalf of
his English clients—if, indeed, it bothered to think on
tlie subject at all. Incidentally, it was discovered a
while later that Batt had purchased the objector’s life
interest for £sooo—which was a good bargain for the
objector.
_ It was more than even placid old Hobart could stand.
The Law Society called a meeting of the profession and
published a remonstrance to the Supreme Court. The
Court treated the society’s effort with the
silence which spells contempt. Whereupon the
society turned on Westbrook, and ultimately
succeeded in dragging him before the Court.
The Count smote Westbrook with the feather of a “ re-
primand,” after which it turned on the society, slated it
heartily for its allegedly impudent “remonstrance,”
and refused the body its Costs —though the remonstrance
had no legal bearing on the action against Westbrook.
It was a quaint way of encouraging the Law Society to do
a duty that is badly needed to be done these days, by
someone. The nett result of the whole upheaval was
that the will remained in force, Westbrook stayed on the
rolls, and the Law Society had to pocket a public insult
and pay heavily for the same to boot. Which was in-
tolerable. With swift and infuriated feet the society
fled to the High Court. The appeal Judges were unani-
mous in striking Westbrook off the rolls.
An amazing feature of this business is that the Tas-
manian Bench, by its action, has practically laid it down
that the standard of legal ethics is lower in the Apple
Island than elsewhere. The difference between the view
of the Tasmanian Court and that of the High Court is
not a matter of law. On the same set of facts that in-
duced the High Court to convict Westbrook and strike
him off the rolls, the Tasmanian Court found that he had
been guilty of “ an objectionable act or omission ” merely,
and left him on.
Law societies have achieved a lot of solid good in the
past, in the way of scotching legal sharks; but it is
doubtful if any has done better service under a bigger
handicap than the Tasmanian institution in this case.
♦
The Boer and the Capitalist.
W ritten by a man who used to be there :
To-day, the Tory newspaper of the British Empire (it
bears many names and is printed in many countries, but
it has one Tory soul among the lot) is cursing the name
of Louis Botha, which, a few months ago, it blessed with
equal fervor ; and the reason of the objurgation is that
the large and brainy Dutchman, who is Prime Minister of
South Africa, has formed his Cabinet mainly of Dutch-
men, atid has turned a stubborn back to the magnates of
the Rand. Fischer, the Dutch Premier of the Orange
Free State ; and Hertzog, the O.F.S. Education Minister
who made English and Dutch equally compulsory in the
schools, are both in the Cabinet; and ex-President Steyn
could have been in it but for sickness. Also Mpltßi-
man\ the Afrikanders’ choice in Cape Colony,
could have been there had he tried. Consequently
the shriek arises in the Tory newspaper that
Britain is betrayed, and that the Dutchmen have revived
“Racialism.” But, as a matter of fact, this cry of
Racialism is the latest resource of Boodle, which assumes
all desperate disguises, and will never confess itself.
Sometimes the capitalistic Tory appears as the National
Party, sometimes as the Fusion, sometimes as the Anti-
Racial Union—but he is the same old Tory every time.
At present in South Africa he calls himself the Pro-
gressive, and is lead by Dr. Jamieson, the small man who,
at the bidding of a Jewish gang, led a filibustering
raid into a friendly country. There is racial
feeling in South Africa, and there is bound to
be. As old-man Steyn said a few weeks ago, “It
is impossible to forget the past.” But the Racialism
is fostered more by the flag-wagging British, who
hold their “Ladysmith Nights” and “ MafekingNights”
each year, than by the Boers, whose chief desire at pre-
sent is to make good money. The racial question is fast
being swamped by one of biggerinterest; the new South
Africa is standing up against the Jewdom and KjC.M.G.-
dom of the old exploiting Uitlanders. Democratic
Britons and Australians are voting for Dutchmen in
South Africa. The Rand Daily Mail told its readers iast
month : “ Dr. Jamieson must not suppose that, as a party
the ‘Progressive’ delegates from the Rand have the
smallest right to voice British opinion on the Rand.”
And ex-President Steyn, of theO.F.S., crowded the whole
matter in a nutshell: “So far as I can see, the issue
will be combined capitalism versus the rest of South
Africa.” This clear putting of the case blows inside out
the wail of “Dutch supremacy” and “the Empire in
danger.” The Empire is an unfortunate institution in
the sort of advocates it is burdened with. It is always
the Empire which is invoked to back up the stock-
brokers of Jew’burg, to deprive Ireland of Home Rule,
or to prevent the building of a fleet in Australia. But
things happen all the same.
♦
A creditable production is Australia Junior for
1910, the Westralian annual whereof the motto is
“ A White, Self-contained, Self-reliant Nation.”
The paper, which is run by the Young Australia
League people, preaches belief in Australia, con-
fidence in its ability to look after itself if given a
vestige of a chance, reliance on its future as a
great, manufacturing nation—in a word, Patriot-
ism. It assails the local sport mania, the Stinking
Fish expert and the type of citizen whose idea of
defending this continent is to present a Dread-
nought to a country on the other side of the
eirth. And it does these worthy things in an
able and comprehensive fashion. The issue to
hand has articles hv the boys who toured here-
abouts last Christmas. An extract: —
We went to a good many churches on the tour, and
discovered that the sermons are longer in the East than
they are in the West; everything in connection with
speaking is long in tile East; one man spoke at us during
"hat was called an interval in a musical evening for 90
minutes. Before he started he said, “ I have not much
to say, because the previous speaker has taken the wind
out of my sails. ”
This memory of Bruce Smith’s lightsome chat
seems to have abided with the boys like a par-
ticularly grim nightmare. There are many por-
traits, an excellent photograph of the Parramatta,
Australia’s first war-vessel, and a suggestive car-
toon. The paper’s object being to act the part
of missioner of nationalism, no charge is made.
The expenses of production are eked out by an
impressive crowd of advertisements. The paper
has only been in existence five years, yet in that
period it has quadrupled its issue and become
favorably known over a large part of Australia.
: ♦ t
Following the lead of Footscray (Vic.), the
citizens of the neighboring municipality of Coburg
have protested against the secret methods and
confabulations of their councils. In truth there
is a vast deal too much secrecy about Melbourne’s
municipal councils and similar bodies. The local
Board of Shirks does practically ail its business
“in committee,” as it is euphemistically called ;
and the City Council is another grievous offender.
Mostly these bodies are hot-beds of stodgy
Toryism—a pledged Laborite is scarce even in
democratic places like Richmond, Collmgvvood or
South Melbourne—and they all enthusiastically
rail against the Labor party’scaucus as something
worse than iniquitous and only one step better
than a felony. The said caucus, of course, doesn’t
register any decisions on public policy; that is
done in the House openly; neither does it vote
away thousands, authorise the floating of huge
loans, or let contracts to persons “ not necessarily
the lowest tenderers” with the press locked out.
Fat Mediocrities do all these things, and, judging
from this country’s experience of Fat when the
light is dim and nobody is looking, the case is
suspicious. Nobody would like to see Fat in
trouble for “boodling” in municipal matters, yet
if this secret “committee” business continues the
temptation will presently become so strong that
he won’t be able to resist it.
♦-
“Mayne Stay”: Sydney is getting an unenvi-
able reputation, among sailor men, as a place
where someone is.bound to be savagely dealt with
in a Court of Marine Inquiry. Take the Wy-
reema-Currajong case, for instance. If Captain
Mkaburn had had unlimited time, broad day-
light and a couple of experts to consult, he would
probably have acted differently. And if Judge
Backhouse had two barristers on opposite sides,
shouting their arguments in breathless haste
at the same time, and had to give his de-
cision by dim candle-light before the shouting
finished, he’d think it entirely unfair if his salary
was stopped for 12 months when that decision was
reversed by a Judge who had time to go into all
the details. Nobody outside the marine profession
can understand the position of a shipmaster. He
has to come to flashlight decisions that involve
the ship and the lives of all aboard her. No man
on shore, however responsible, is so frequently
and suddenly pounced on by the Unexpected;
yet when, for once in 20 years, that decision
happens to be the wrong one, the harassed
skipper is treated as if he were a criminal.
This is not the time to say anything about the
conviction, at Melbourne criminal sessions, of
three women on a charge of murder—the result of
an illegal operation—but it most assuredly is the
time to remark that the whole miserable episode
would never have occurred had there been a
Foundling Hospital, where the girl might have
left her baby without publicity, after which she
might have returned to her home and her usual
life without anyone being the wiser. In this
instance, the dead girl and the “man in the ease”
were engaged, and he was anxious to marry her,
but she feared the scornful finger and bitter
tongue of Mrs. Grundy when the baby should
arrive with undue promptitude. So she got her
lover to send to a pseudo-Chinese herbalist for
pills or powders or some such insane concoctions.
These failing, she placed herself in the hands of an
“ expert nurse,” and now—there are one dead girl,
one dead baby, and three women waiting to be
hanged. That girl could have gone to the
Women’s Hospital or, with the money it was
proved she paid away, to a private hospital; but
the trouble would have come afterwards. There
was no Foundling Home where she could have left
her child to be cared for and brought up as an
asset to the State that badly needs such assets,
so she took the other road. As a consequence,
she and her child are equally dead. The blame
lies not so much with the three women who were
last week sentenced to death as with the snuffle-
some hypocrites who babble about “encouraging
immorality.” What they encourage is plain
murder !
♦
As a usual thing, when one man sees, in broad
daylight, another man fell over a precipice and
break his neck, he makes a mental note to avoid
that preqjpice. Apparently, however, that kind
of usualness doesn’t appeal to Victoria’s Premier,
Mr. Weary, of Warrnambool. The violent end
of the Deakin-Cook alliance should have been a
warning to John, to either renounce his Fusion,
or to see that the Liberal half of it supplied
the principles. He lately had a fine chance to do
this by opposing the retiring members of the
House of Rich Landlords—the men who slew his
Progressive Land Tax Bill and left its remains
unburied. He was pledged to do this, and it
would have been mighty good policy to keep that
pledge. But he saved himself the trouble
by making friends with the enemy. So
wholly did he adopt their principles that
the Argus was able to refer to him as the
“ natural ally ”of the House of Property. But,
although John Weary seems to contemplate the
position with equanimity, his Liberal tail is getting
restless. That end of the Fusion hasn’t its
leader’s craving for suicide. So the chances are
that the Premier will arrive at the House one fine
morning to find about a third of his followers
missing, they having fixed up a temporary agree-
ment with Labor. Then there will probably be
an election ; and the one-time democrat of Warr-
nambool wilLfind that he has drifted, he doesn’t
know exactly how, into the position of Tory
leader. And while he is wondering how it hap-
pened the premises will fall on him.
“M.P.” ; A Poverty Pointer (B. 16/6/TO) mentions that
veteran G. R. Ireland is the last man of the two com-
panies that playefl “The Honeymoon” in the ’sixties.
However, he dosen’t. amount to the sole survivor. Miss
Rose Hdduin (Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis), now in London, was
in the Barry Sullivan production at the old Melbourne
Royal, wherein Coppin was said to be so funny as the
Mock Duke that he never failed to “break up” his
fellow-mummers in the scene.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Dollar Princess.”
Royal “ Henry of Navarre. ”
Criterion “ Passing of the 3rd Floor Back.’
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
jjYCKdm Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her. Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
Princess’s “ Mr. Preedy and the Countess.”
Royal “ Merry Wives of Windsor.”
King’s “ The Sailor’s Wedding.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
AtheNjKUM Hall Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
West's Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
—— -+
“ The Passing of the Third Floor Back”
continues to occur at regular intervals and in the
presence of packed houses, at Sydney Criterion.
Last Sunday the Church, in the person of Rev.
Marston, of St. James’—the sacred fane where
the vestment-rows come from—gave the produc-
tion its blessing in a sermon. It were better,
from a treasury view point had the church cursed
the show ; but success is assured, anyhow.
** * *
“The Dollar Princess” is preparing to
unliinher her immense head-bow, consign the
same to the Saratoga which—it is understood—
was expressly made to accommodate the garment,
and vacate Her (Sydney). Eight
nights hence “A Knight for a Day” will take
the boards in her stead.
** * *
“ Henry of Navarre ” leaves Sydney Royal
next Wednesday night. He will be followed by
Nellie Stewart in “ What Every Woman Knows.”
On the afternoon of Monday, July 4, Mrs. J. B. N.
Osborne (Miss Maud Jeffries), Mrs. T. H. Kelly
(Miss Knight-Mollison) and Julius Knight will be
seen at the Royal in “Pygmalion and Galatea.”
Every vice-regal and other Excellency will be
there, for the performance is in aid of Lady
Dudley’s Bush Nursing Scheme.
* ffc * *
Mr. Ossipoff and Mrs. Dolinsky, the
Russian operatic singers, whose third concert in
Sydney Y.M.C. A. Hall was due to take place on
June 29 —after this Bulletin has gone to press—
have hitherto eluded the “ Sundry Shows.” The
concerts (two Wednesday ones and one Saturday)
have been awkwardly placed for this paper, which
is born early on Thursday morning, and can take
no heed of Wednesday happenings .until eight
days later. Only the announcement of a fourth
concert for Friday, July 1, saves this notice from
being merely a valedictory. Mr. Ossipoff, with his
full-powered baritone, his vigorous and unconven-
tional methods, and his immense high G’s, has ex-
cited and enthused all song-lovers who have under-
taken the pilgrimage to the hall in Bathurst-street.
He is dramatic with an intensity that possibly
comes from living in a country where every second
man’s tail-pocket is suspected of being filled
with dynamite. The Toreador song from
“Carmen” has probably never been sung
with more fire and spirit than he put
into it at the first concert; in fact, the writer
with difficulty restrained himself from shouting
to the artist to let the harassed animal go. Mrs.
Zoe Dolinsky is a gracious, dark-haired mezzo-
sOprano whose platform manner is subdued to the
verge of shyness. Her voice is rich and strong,
and she uses it with excellent judgment, particu-
larly in the duets with her twin-star. Mr. Du
Boulay, a sombre-looking young violinist, is the
third member of the co. He is a painstaking and
finished artist who plays his heavy numbers with
precision, but he is happiest with the lighter
themes. Several words of praise are due to Miss
Renee Lees, the accompaniste.
** * *
“D.” : The following, which is from the
S. M. Herald (18/6/TO), is the sort of inspired
slush that gets into the dailies anent good adver-
tisers :
A very pretty incident happened this week in connec-
tion with the visit of Mrs. Calv 6, the great singer, to
Sydney.
There is in Sydney a street singer. Fortune has not
done all that it might for her, and of late her slendei
means had been more than usually straitened. This is
her story
“I happened to sing in Macquarie-street on Wednesday
night.” .
“ I was singing ‘Love Me and the World is Mine,’when
a lady Came up to me in a black cloak and slipped two
half-crowns into my hand. For some reason I felt sure
that it was Mrs. CalvA I thought, the wonder of the great
singer coming and listening tome ! I am an English-
woman.' When I finished that song the lady asked me if
I would sing another. I sang ‘ Annie Laurie.’ Then
“.‘You are not Australian?’ she said. ‘You are
English.’
“ ‘Yes, madam,’ I said, ‘ an Englishwoman.’
‘“ You see me at the Hotel Australia at half-past 11 in
the morning,’ she said, as she left me. ‘Ask for Miss
Hulten,’ she said.
, “ ‘ But, madam,’ I protested, ‘ I am so shabby ’
“‘ Never mind,’she insisted. ‘ You come.’
“‘ I went into, the hotel in the morning. Im-
agine my disappointment when the hoy. came
down stairs and said: ‘ Miss Hulten says she doesn’t
know you.’ But I asked the boy to lend me a pencil, and
I wrote: ‘You gave me ss. last night in Macquarie-
street.’
“Directly afterwards a maid came downstairs—it was
she that was named Hulten—and gave me a sovereign.
“‘Mrs. Calvd is very sorry that she is so busy—she
leaves this morning,’ she said.”
Reduced to business terms, the episode was
worth a goodish sum of money to Calve as an
advt. ; certainly it was worth far more than the
quid which the unhappy old Englishwoman had
to abase herself for at the Hotel Australia.
Apropos this happening, another daily came out
with an account of how Calve struck another
street-singer, bade her, with infinite tenderness,
desist from her carollings, and herself tqqlc the
luckless songstress’s place, and filled the entire
street with golden melody, so that a huge crowd
gathered round and the collection was some-
thing immense. “Every farthing,” wrote the
boomster impressively, “ was banded to Calve s
bewildered acquaintance, who took i t with eyes weJ -
in# with happy, thankful tears.” I rise to suggest
that the next queen of song, who discerns a nas-
been fellow-artist at street work and feels lil<e
helping her, should hand over the cash and pass
straight on, only stopping to mention that she
doesn’t want the occurrence to get into the
papers. The present vogue puts the unfortunate
who scores a little charity-money in the position
of the indigent suburban housewife who gives a
public statement to the press of her horrible
stomach troubles for a guinea and the benefit ot
a Yankee pill-firm.
** * *
Last Saturday night, ventriloquist Lieu-
tenant Frank Travis started, at Sydney Tivoli, to
sing “Daddy” through a pot of beer. He also
performed other praiseworthy ventriloquial feats ;
but, in writer’s estimation, the most entertaining
item was the Beer-Daddy mixture. The un-
reasonably dreary ballad was a drawing-room pest
when this writer* was younger, and he has a
grudge against it because of the many young
women he has had to thank for wailing it through.
After an interval of several years, Travis’ stage
pot of beer in way redeems the situation.
The Charlene pair, with their juggling and
xylophone playim.’; Mendel, the blind musician ;
and Lillie Langtry are the other principals.. The
turn of Billy Williams has not yet been eradi-
cated.
** * *
Adelaide Town Hall has burst into music.
At the end of last week it was held in turn by the
Glee Club, the Orpheus Society (with a Spohr
requiem for its late vice-president, Kyffin
Thomas, included in the programme), and
chamber music by local men —of whom, notably,
Eugene Alderman on the violin is worth more
than a mere local fame. Then in came the Besses,
who are making joyful music by day and night.
“The Arcadians” have begun doing the same
at the Royal. The Tivoli has again worked up a
strong programme, starring the athletic billiard
exercise of Liane de Lyle, the mysteriousness of
the Howards, and the still more startling
magic of the illusive Carter. Manager Marcus
has been celebrating the 10th year of Rickard’s
occupation of this house. Olympia and the Em-
pire are both showing King’s-funeral pictures.
Britain did the thing well, but unfortunately the
films are not always clear enough to show who is
which among the kingly processionists. The
whole picture business—at first-class houses like
these—is improving greatly. But it seems a mis-
take to stage a book-storv, unless one already
thoroughly known. “ Ranson’s Folly,” for ex-
ample, adapted from Harding Davis, though well
acted, must have left a lot of people guessing.
** * *
Oscar Asche's beautiful production of
“ The Merry Wives ” has scored another in-
teresting success in Shakspeare at Melbourne
Royal. The story of Falstaff being fooled by
Mrs. Ford and Mrs. Page in two instances, and
still more ridiculously fooled by a committee of
practical jokers in the third case, is not a great
comedy. It is founded on the assumption that
the fat old knight had a young Gussie’s faith in
his personal attraction for a pair of smart matrons;
that he wrote them a love letter in duplicate with
hardly a misgiving as to their discovery of his
double dealing ; that when he found them schem-
ing together on pretence of serving his interests
he didn’t suspect them, although they would
naturally be jealous of one another if they were
both “struck” on him, ashe supposed ; and that he
blabbed his business to shabby rogues or opulent
strangers with the easy confidence of a town crier.
The shrewd Falstaff of “Henry IV.” degener-
ates into the merest farcical comedy medium in
“The Merry Wives,” but he brings an air of
reality with him in the opening scene ; and for the
rest the farce is stocked with quaint old types of
humanity and artistic groupings, and is pretty
full of broad fun—and it goes well. The girls in
the crowded amphitheatre shrieked excessively on
Saturday night
“PASSING OF THE THIRD FLOOR BACK."
AT SYDNEY CRT.
The kindly light
(Matheson Lang , a
passer-by).
The spirit of the lodying-
house (Miss Nelly
Mortyne, landlady).
The production is bound in snow, or an
excellent substitute for it, in the outdoor scenes.
It stamps an English winter effect on one’s
memory; and, when departed, it will leave behind
it footprints on the sands of salt; The opening
scene —“ Before Page’s House ’’—which is twice
repeated, has the Garter Inn in the background,
and a ton of salt to flavor its picturesqueness.
Slender’s nose is red with cold, and the gloves he
swears by are woollen casings, that denote the
“ molly ” man. Hugh Evans and Dr. Caius have
their meeting for the duel in a field of snow, and the
extravagant humor of the incident is worked up
to the point of realism. The final scene in
Windsor Park is a foot deep in the same cold saline
matter; and although the revels of the mock
fairies (who sit upon the snow with unnatural
thoughtlessness) are not remarkably bright, the


I CINEMATOGRAPH Films for
subjects constantly arriving,
parts, and accessories stocked
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street,
hire —new -
Machines, B
Write. ■
Sydney. B
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Let tlie learned o’er planets puzzle.
Let the p’liee the bow-wows muzzle,
And the thirst people cuzzle
In the ways that suit ’em best;
But everv be<r<rar, peer or laird,
Should keep this cure that can’t be spared,
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure prepared
For ailments of the chest.*
curtain effect is a jolly ending to the joke, Ph
interiors with their rude furnishings and log tires,
the 15th century dresses, and the small details
which go to make completeness are on the
artistic level as the stage management. Mel-
bourne is going to be very grateful for this last of
Oscar Asche’s shows.
* * * *
His Falstaff, a convincing make-up, is a
rather less unctuous and rowdy sinner than the
original plump Jack of the earlier play, but he
naturalises the character in spite of its incon-
gruities. Kay Souper, Tripp Edgar and Caleb
Porter are capital as Slender, Parson Evans and
Dr. Caius, whilst Athol Forde passes as
Justice Shallow. Ewan Brook, as Pistol, presents
the sour larrikin of the period in his manner and
habit as he probably lived. Bardolph (played by
Edgar under another name) is a reality. Pistol and
the licensee of the Garter Inn are not so good in
their parts. Now Atholwood, as the host aforesaid,
would have been a host in himself. George
Relph, as Anne Page’s best boy, Anson as the
grotesque Simple, and Penny S 4 Mr. Page, fill
their places ; whereas Grim wood. creates a Ford,
who is almost luridly melodramatic in his jealousy
and utterly un-English in appearance and style.
Ford looks like a Hebrew character taken from
Holy Writ. He is the angry Jeremiah of the play.
Among the ladies Miss Bessie Major scores an
easy first as Dame Quickly. Her performance and
her personality are equally true to the text. Miss
Clement is winsome, but certainly not It as Anne
Page. Miss Robertson is a sprightly Mrs. Page,
and Miss Brayton makes a beauteous picture of
Mrs. Ford. Also, she is vivacious in action and
as merry in speech as her grave vocal tones will
permit.
** * *
Three Calve operatic concerts at the Prin-
cess’s, the third of which is dated for to-morrow
(Friday), should not be too many. Unfortunately,
scenes from “ Carmen ” are barred from the pro-
grammes, but there are others. On Saturday the
prison scene from “Faust” brought proceedings
to a close, the new basso addition to the co. being
Mephisto. His name is Schmidt, and under any
other name he might be less satisfactory. Ordi-
nary concert items, mostly repetitions of wbat
Calve and Gasparri sang at the Town Hall a
while ago, got an improved effect from an
extempore boudoir setting on the stage and a
comfortable auditorium. An orchestra,' under the
careful ministration of Beard, did its best with
the “ Oberon ” overture and the dance piece from
"Peer Gynt,” and Pintel soloed twice at the
piano. What the concert lacked was a reasonable
sense of proportion. It put a rather meagre per-
formance into a lavish allowance of space, and left
.tedium to.fill up the gaps. If the periods of still-
ness in Friday’s concert are to be less long and
oppressive, the management would do well to
announce the coming fact.
** * *
“Mr. Preedy and the Countess,” a very
original comedy by R. C. Carton, will come to
light at the Princess’s next Saturday, arid the
Willoughby cO. will be there to turn the light on.
Last time it played “The Night of the Party,”
and did it very well ; this time it has finer
literary material to deal with, and will probably
go one better. Miss Mab Paul is cast for the
slap-dash Countess who gets billeted on the
gentle Preedy (David James), and the whisk of
that tall, impetuous lady as she takes possession
of his bachelor home can almost be heard from
afar.
-* X * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) a revival of
“The Orchid” takes the place of “ A Waltz
Dream ” next Saturday (2nd). Melbourne retains
a good opinion of “The Orchid ” as a comedy
with a strong tendency to humor, also a decided
taste for music of the catchy order. The simple
ballad of “Little Mary” occurs therein, and the
narrative itself is rooted in a high-class nursery
garden, where a chorus of girls undertake the
ornamental labor, and poor George Lauri of yore
did all the heavy work. This latter duty will now
devolve upon Bertie Wright.
** X *
At West’s building, Melbourne, can now
be seen an accurate picture of hunting in France.
From this film it would appear that the chasing
of inedible meats is much the same there as in
England. Always it is the uneatable in front
and the unspeakable behind. Of the other pic-
tures, “ A Philanthropic Uncle ” is a derision of
the spirit of charity; and “ A Western Romance”
a ■hunk of cowboy ecstasy with a frill. Also there
is a beautiful picture of the customs of birds,
which seem to observe the most respectable of
human institutions. Apparently they all practise
a system of monogamy, with the usual home ties
and usual arguments about that strange egg in the
nest.
XXX*
At the Melbourne Athenaeum, the Taits
are showing the picture of the late King’s funeral
to music of an appropriately solemn character.
The picture is full of the pageantry of clothes. In
addition, the Taits are telling the yarn of “ Bar-
berine,” which is after a tale by Alfred de Musset;
“Faithful Furniture,” which exhibits some
chattels’ fondness for home, sweet home; and also
“ As In Life,” which is a sort of treatise on the
awakening of love. In short, it portrays the
growth of a girl’s soul, which buds like a violet
and then flourishes like a cabbage.
X XXX
At the King’s “The Sailor’s Wedding”
proceeds through its three stages of ideality, in-
consequence, and imbecility, Lenore de Gresae
continues to be the most flagrant being in the
play, for in scorn she is a New York winter,, and
in love a tornado of fire. People in her vicinity
experience all degrees of heat and cold, and it is
not too extravagant to state that her disdain gives
persons chilblains, as much as her affection leaves
them singed. Still, doubtful as she is on grounds
of morality, she is not so unpleasant as is mariner
Hawkins on grounds of taste. In Act IV.
Hawkins is rather an imprudent jester. He has
not the ambiguity that has been given to wits to
conceal their indiscretions.
A note from Melbourne
If the Vie. Professional Orchestra has come to stay-b-
-andit looks as though it had-Melbourne will presently
have just cause to call itself musical. Patronage w bound
to grow if the banded performers continue to stick to*
gether and hope on. When the word goes round outside
the inner musical circle, that more than 100 of the wor -
ing instrumentalists are paving the way for fc he establish-
ment of a Permanent Orchestra by giving the biggest
performances that Melbourne has heard, these experi-
mental concerts should appeal to many people who have
never given much heed to Marshall Hall and his
hysterical advertisers. The new movement is more
sane and business-like and co-operative. It is
the natural outcome of the new Musicians Union,
and its avowed objects are good. The second concert
of the Professional Orchestra happened last Thursday at
the Town Hall, when Zelinan again conducted. Bee-
thoven’s “Heroic” Symphony, lasting nearly an hour,
“A WALTZ DREAMT"
That ten seconds kiss at Her Majesty’s , Melbourne.
was the principal item, and although this was played a
trifle too slowlv, perhaps, in the sombre parts the effect
was fine. The'other four items were Wagnerian—three
of them very familiar —and these also went to build up
the orchestra’s reputation. A series of four Thursday
afternoon concerts, on a subscription basis, is now
intended. Fred Beard will conduct the first of the quar-
tette—on July 21, probably—and the Russian composer
whose name begins with a sneeze and ends in
“ Kowsky” will have chief place on the programme. The
season subscription is 155., entitling the casher-up to a
reserved seat at each concert. ,
** * *
A change in .Olive Lenton’s turn is the
chief difference between this week’s and last
week’s matters at the Opera House. On Satur-
day the Kremo Family is to account for the
action of the Rickards’ advt. in printing its
name 13 lines deep. The Kremos are said to be the
greatest of Risley performers (Risley apparently
being a bygone artist who invented certain feats
in the arena), and their present address is “beyond
the last word in acrobatics.”
London Daily Mail starred the following
stupendous tripe on the day of Ed. Vll. ’s
funeral :
IN MEMORIAM.
May 20, 1910.
Immortal King, thy soul above the clouds
Soars, cognisant of'all thy subjects’ grief!
Why leave us now in earthly struggle deep
When thou, Great Peacemaker, might’st end the strife
And give us greater strength ? Oh ! come once more,
Great Ghost of Time ! We wait thy kindly grace—
So often shown to friend and foe alike —
And bid thee speak those words of peace and love
With which to-day we lay thy mortal frame
To rest—weeping for that thou canst not speak !
Peace ! Peace ! Dear King, Godfather, Gracious Friend,
We prav thee ever “ Come ” and “Come again,”
And when our hour draws nigh do thou us'send
Some fleeting message which may help us then.
Rosslyn.
The perpetrator dropped a fortune on the turf at
an early stage in his career. He has twice faced
the music of the Divorce Court, and he recently
married for the third time. He has been bank-
rupt. He went broke at Monte Carlo with a
system which he journeyed there to exploit.
Also, he bailed with a loud thud in connection
with a manure business. He has been a profes-
sional actoy (stage name James Erskine), a
journalist, a war correspondent, and a dozen
other things, meeting with indifferent success in
every case. Withal, the passing of the monarch,
who was his godfather, has inspired him to a far
more dreadful deed than any whereof he had pre-
viously been guilty.
“THE SAILOR'S WEDDING," AT MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
Edmund Dnyyan as
Count Bellini.
Koy Rcd[?] as Gi[?]omo,
of the Eye
“Distance lends enchantment to the
If) U.” — Suij'jestecl proverb for Bull Cohen to paste
in his hat.
Dear B., —You say “ McCoy, of Marrick-
ville (N.S.W.), is hoisting the white flag without
firing a shot.” It is a half-truth, and, like ail
such, dangerous. The McCoy we have known
has certainly gone down in more or less of a
panic; but young brother Rupert has come on.
Already *'Liberalism ” is toiling hard on his
behalf, and between this and polling day not a
stone will be left unturned, every animal with
two legs and a vote will be seen, and the alleged
machinations of the Kyardinal, Bung and Labor
will be explained to all parties. Labor can win the
Marrickville seat; but it must not hold it cheap.
In fact, it will have to fight like Sheol. —
Yours, A.P.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Remark of no importance by Ballarat Echo
“‘The Arcadians’ is full of clever little bits of charac-
terisation, smart dialogue, some of it rather beyond an
Australian audience, as, for instance, when a simple Ar-
cadian asks Smith ‘ What is money ?’ to which he retorts,
‘ Ask Lloyd George.’ This allusion to the Chancellor of
the Exchequer is lost.”
If Ballarat doesn’t know who Lloyd George is then it is
miles behind Sydney in general information. Probably
it does know though it didn’t laugh. Who could laugh
at a drear remark like that?
“Stiletto” : Since Williamson’s Grand Opera Cos. com-
menced its tour of Maoriland there have been ructionsin
13 different keys. It appears that Sorel will not sing
with Zerga (who is engaged to Pampari), so the whole
casts of “ Butterfly ” had to be altered. Blarney no longer
sings with Castles, having joined the Sorel camp.
Neither of the prima donnas will stand Zanelli as Sharp-
less so Arthur Crane is Sharplessing for all concerned.
Between arguments, the co. is rehearsing “Cavalleria
Rusticana” and “I Pagliacci” for production in Mel-
bourne at the end of the M L. disturbance.
“ M.P.”: Ancient actor, Stirling Whyte, who still holds
up his end with Anderson’s co. at Melbourne King’s, put
up a short-notice job in Tobin’s “ Honeymoon,” in ’65.
Whyte, along with a bunch of mummers, had been per-
vading the “smalls” in England, and had just about
landed on the rocks; but, somehow, managed to get to
London. Passing Sadler’s Wells Theatre he was sighted
by a brother mummer, who fastened on to him like a
clam, and finally landed him into a dressing-room in the
theatre. Whyte was told he had to play in ‘ All
That Glitters,” but at the last moment the bill
was changed to “The Honeymoon.” Stirling played
Rolando. Alf Dampier was Aranza and Ed
Terry the Mock Duke. As Whyte had been
playing in “All that Glitters ” and “ The Honeymoon”
with the buskers in the “smalls” he fell into the piece
with ease. The show went without a hitch, and after tlie
curtain fell Whyte cleaned up, dressed and got out. He
remembers beiiig pushed before the curtain for some
reason or other, but, except during the action of the
plav nobody said a word to him—the mummers were
all strangers to Whyte, and he departed in silence. Asa
matter of fact, Stirling blew in and blew out and then
fathered up a pal, and the pair hoofed it from Sadler s
Wells to St. John’s Wood, whicii is a seven miles pad.
“Cockaigne ”: Harry Neville is gone. His last part
was Oliver Surface, with Tree as P. Teazle, Marie Lohras
Lady Teazle, Lai Brough as Moses, and Vezin as
Rowley. Neville, like Lai Brough, was well in, though
not so well. He first became noticeable as leading man
at Manchester, preceding Irving, who was followed by
Alfred Dampier. In London Neville made a mighty hit
as the original Ticket of Leave Man, and ran for 400
nights. Also, he was the London original of Pierre in
“The Two Orphans,” with W. Rigfnold (“ Rignold s
brother Bill ”) as Jacques. But Neville’s greatest success
was as the hero in “Clancarty,” wi th Ada Cavendish as the
heroine, and Anson as Scum Goodman. In a revival of
“ The School for Scandal,” put up as a stop gap in the
little Vaudeville Theatre (London), Neville was Charles
Surface. He ran a good deal over a whole year, in the
lucky house where “ Our Boys ” hung out for 1200 nights.
Neville was something like Wyndham, but not of such
calibre. Nor had he the momentum of Warner, let he
was always good.
The names of Bland Holt’s parents crop up in the Aus-
tralian annals of “ Honeymoon ” productions. The old
comedy was played at Ballarat, and elsewhere, in the
’so’s with Mr. and Mrs. Clarance Holt in the chief parts,
and was dulv condemned as a dull imitation of “ Taming
of the Shrevv,” which, in those days, was played only in an
abbreviated form as a roaring farce, under the title of
“ Katharine and Petruchio.” How much stage manage-
ment has advanced in the various arts of dealing with an
old play is shown in the fact that a full performance of
“The Shrew,” with the induction, was too dull for popu-
larity half a century ago. What sort of staging and
methods of acting could it have had to make it dull in
comparison with other plays of that heavy peiiod l
“ Triplet" : The dramatic scribes are wrong in stating
that “ The Honeymoon ” has not been produced on the
Australian stage since the days of Brooke and Sullivan.
Walter Montgomery staged it frequently in Melbourne
and Sydney, but George Darrell is the actor who last
presented the comedy in Australasia. When a very
younsr man Darrell 'played the Duke Aranza , that was
during his first starring engagement at Melbourne Royal.
His wife was Juliana, and George Coppin was the mock
duke. Subsequently, Darrell played the piece on tour
throughout Australia and Maoriland.
“ 0.K.”: What most impresses me in the work of the
Andersonian dramatists is their show of acute sense of
local color. For instance, in “ The Sailor’s Wedding,
which is a “ Great Story of Life and Love in Sunny
Italy ” two of the scenes are laid outside a pub that
harms out a signboard of true artistic significance. The
dramatist didn’t carelessly affix a British title to the pub
—“The Robin Hood,” “The Roast Beef, ‘Tne Goat
and Compasses ”or what not. He called it The
Bunch of Graces,” thus creating an Italian atmosphere
for the play'at the very go off. On “The Bunch of
Grapes ” the curtain rises. Had the play been a story of
Sin and Strife in Greasy Germany the pub sign would
have been “ The String of Sausages.” In Fair * ranee it
would’have been “The Five Frogsin Spain, The
Merry Mandolin ”or “ The Honest Bullfight. In Turney
“The Pious Pasha,” or perhaps “The Turkish Delight,”
symbolised by the half-draped figure of a harem beauty.
Andersonian'dramatists simply wallow in local color,
whichever hemisphere their scenes are laid in.
“ Melb.”: A Prahran syndicate is formed to build a
theatre in that suburb, bn one of the best Chapel-street
corners The latest attempt of this kind was the
splendid theatre built 30 years ago in South Melbourne
bv Mendes, the pawnbroker, at a cost of many thousands.
The Town Hall, coming later, ruined it. Mendes’ theatre
has been used by the Salvation Army for 26 years. The
Salvos also gained possession of tlie Geelong xheatre
Royal, after it had been turned into a brewery. The old
Ballarat Theatre Royal is Snow’s drapery shop. Founda-
tions were laid for a theatre in Smith-street, Collmg-
vvood, over half a century ago, but a drapery emporium
was built upon them also.
“JeanSibi”: Melba is preparing a luscious retreat at ,
Coldstream, near her father’s Cave Hill estate, Lilv-
dale (Vic.). The place is to be the last refuge of the
Voice before it becomes a Very Much Past. Contractors
and architects are struggling with plans, and Guilfoyle,
of Melbourne Botanical Gardens, is on the spot, twisting
the landscape into patterns and cutting* the hair of the
trees His purpose, under orders from the despot in
London, is to blend vegetation and soil into tortuous
terraces There are also to be tennis courts, croquet lawns
and other bosky retreats. In<ide tlie house, which is as
yet like a rumor without the slightest foundation, the
upholsterers will be given an uncurbed pi*fse. Each
room, it is said, will represent a distinctive period f om
the Fall of Man to the Rise of Melba, so that you will be
able to stroll through the history of the world in about,
five minutes.
“ O.K.”: A pedantic somebody quotes with admiration
the words of John Galsworthy, the modern Shawian
playwright, in describing “the aim of his own art.
Thus saith Galsworthy : “To the making of good drama
there must be brought an almost passionate, love of dis-
cipline, a white heat of self-respect [etc., etc.]. To these
must be added an eye which does not flinch. Such
qualities alone will bring, to a drama the self less chciraclei
which soaks it with inevitability.’’ The pretentious non-
sense of Galsworthy’s statement of his aim and qualifica-
tions is not so irritating as the praises which wtak-minded
flunkeys of literature lavish upon it. Goes a Galsworthy
persuade himself that there is more truth, satire and
“ moral lesson ” in one of his unsuccessful sermon plays
than in the successful work of a popular dramatist who is a
brighter writer, a more experienced man of the world
an d, probably, a keener observer than himself? The dull
sermouiser merely tries to tell the truth that is in him ,
the bright dramatist tells a lot more truth than the
other, but he doesn’t dw ell tediously on his facts. Many
a flippant comedy has been rich in incidental reflections
on human nature ; but its philosophical teaching was not
insisted upon by its author. A play by Galsworthy in-
sists upon its educational character all the time, though
it tells to thoughtful people nothing that they dido t
know before. To the more frivolous-minded it tells
nothing, for they carefully refrain from giving it their
patronage. They wouldn’t mind the play being ‘ soaked
with inevitability ” if it were a more interesting soaker.
“O.K.” : A reference to the concert-hall system of
ekino- out a short programme wdth long encores (vide
“Sundry Shows” last week) touches me on an old sore.
“ The noisy interludes of hand-clapping and floor-
thumping between numbers get very wearisome to the
people who pay to listen to sweet music.” How pain-
fully true! Some years ago the tiresomeness of those
K oings off the platform and returnings to bow and smile
was "so freely cursed that concert managers became
frightened, and positively advertised the promise that
encores would be given quickly, and pauses between the
exit of one performer and the entrance of another would
be brief. But the improvement soon ceased, and things
slumped back to their old state, under the patronage of
that musical hysteria which seems natural to concert
hall audiences. ‘ Large proportions of the audiencesfind
their chief entertainment in their own hysteria. They
are pupils of musical critics. The other people who go
to theatres and ought to have more sense, seem to leave
their reasoning power in the cloak room, or put it under
the seat. They wouldn’t tolerate all that waste of time
in interludes of uproar if they were at a theatre. There
they want their entertainment to be full of go—in music
or action—save when the curtain is down. Yet they
endure the preposterous prolongation of a concert per-
formance. There are many others, of course, who can t
endure it, and therefore stop away, protesting that con-
certs are like workhouse puddings—a few plums in a
mass of dough. Under “direction,” or under “ manage-
ment,” they are all the same.
(Continued on page 84.)
“ The Old Soldier” in the role of prophet:
I see the Military Correspondent of the Times is repre-
sented as saying
“The army will deplore the temporary end of Lord
Kitchener’s active connection with the forces. When the
count ry is pleased to ask him to take off his coat to carry
toafinal stage the re-organisation Mr. Haldane, Secretary
of State for War, has so well begun, Lord Kitchener will
respond.”
Whatever people may say, Kitchener has had his last
chance, comparatively young as he is. It has always
been held that a General, on vacating the Indian com-
mand, must be content to go on the shelf and make room
for the juniors. There are hosts of men with Boer War
reputations who are quite sure K. of K. has had his full
share of <rood things, and that it is time someone else
had a turn. No one in the British army at all near
Kitchener’s age has had anything like his show. He has
not vet completed 40 years’ service, as compared with
Roberts’ 58 and White’s over 50 (both Field-Marshals);
and there are manv Generals with over 50 years service.
Nothing is less likely than that K. will be employed to
put the finishing touches to Haldane’s work. There are
a score of younger, but still distinguished, men waiting
their opportunity, when the time comes, to finish it either
by destroying: or completing: it.
THE MANAGEMENT REFORMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
... Here in Sydney it’s the gallery boy who creates
the furore. . . . That our light entertainments have
been too “heady” of late is the judgment of the gallery
boy. . . According to the press representative of the
.1. C. Williamson management, “ A Knight for a Day'’ is
going to run the gallery boy up the stairs to his seat,
four at a time, every night. When there he’s going to
hold on like a limpet to a rock. —Sydney Star.
We feel our entertainments, in the past,
Have been too classical ; and so
These shows which, nightly, played to houses vast
(I don’t think) will be forced to go.
No more a cultivated populace
Will sw'oon with pleasure at the sounds
Of Widow Twankey’s golden notes, or trace
High Art in ballerinas’ bounds.
No longer shall eclecticism know
Pure, unadulterated joy
What time it gazes on that fair leg-show,
The highly-cultured panto, hoy.
Ballets will fade like sun-struck morning dew
And songs of sentiment, and jokes
Our theatre-frequenting parents knew ;
Likewise stage-elephants and mokes.
These place, we now perceive, too great a strain
On patrons’ minds ; wherefore we must
Find stage-goods even more devoid of brain—
Which feat we mean to do or bust.
N.S. W.
H. SINGEMOINE.
A BALLAD OF THE ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I celebrate the companies—the managers and “pros.”
Who drag around this continent their unsuccessful
shows!
The Princess and Her Majesty’s—they matter not to
me ;
I cheer the plucky managers who chase prosperity!
The men who haul their scenery around the blessed
“ smalls”;
Whose “props” are hustled endlessly in cheap, bush-
whacking halls!
A song for all the actor-men- to ease the blessed load,
I sing in good companionship a Ballad of the Road !
The Philistines complacently go back and forth from
toil —
The sleek suburban citizens who peaceful kettles boil.
The shop-man and the Personage whose warehouse in
“the Lane”
Is stuffed with rags and fripperies for Maud and Emma
Jane !
These harmless blokes diurnallv go back and forth from
town,
And carry vesper crayfish in receptacles of brown !
But up and down this continent, wherever shows are
showed,
I lift for toiling actor-folk this Ballad of the Road.
The footlights gleam at Bendigo—at Bourke and Broken
Hill
Perspiring actor-managers hang out the earnest bill 1
From Charters Towers to Hamilton, from York to
Nymagee,
The patient actor laboreth to earn his B s. d.
The ghost that walketh fitfully for him hath fearful
charms,
Whose red, false whiskers circulate in “ Robbery Under
Arms ” !
For him and Lady Isabel—“ East Lynne ” be dashed and
blowed —
I sing this boon companion’s song, this Ballad of the
Road !
The flickergraph accursedly pervadeth all the land,
And soured and cursing companies are left upon the
strand 1
The landlord fiercely clamoreth ; the hall-man wants his
rent;
The goings of the actor-man are like the Arab’s tent!
When cash for fares (no salaries!) is falling sleep and
low,
A psalm of hope and cheerfulness is needed for the pro. !
The uncomplaining actor-man deserves this special Ode,
A rhyme full of good comradeship—a Ballad of the
Road !
By coach and rail the companies go north and south and
west; „ , ~ , ,
From Maori l aid to Hughenden, to Zeehan and the rest.
They earn their humble salaries, the actors and.their
wives, , ,
Who toil to please this continent and live grease-painted
Clarke and Williamson, Hugh Ward and
Osc <r Asche ; , , ,
And each and all most certainly deserve to gather cash .
But when ye sit ’midst Philistines, where Rupert’s shows
are showed, . _ . ,
Pray for the toiling companies—the Pros, upon the Road .
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


- \ :
.-• 8
MODELS—
-7 H.P. 1 CYLINDER
... to ...
70 H.P. 6 Cylinders
Illustrated Catalogues
posted on application.
Enquiries should state
approximate horse-
power and style of car
required.
The Very Best Motor Cars for AUSTRALIAN USE
are those Imported by Dalgety 8 Company Limited.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
use are specially equipped to
stand our rough conditions.
By Special
Appointment
gsd
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, “
THE CATERER. Tel. No. 2, Ascot. V'CTORIA.
Wedding- Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
Are You Sore?
Does your back ache? Have you neuralgia *
Do you know that Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Lini-
ment will cure you ? It is the only external
remedy that will take out all the inflammation.
It can t help but do you good.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best plaoe to lunch and dine in town.
J* W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
SOCIETY
“Whitehall”: The London papers are
full of what they Call Sir Robert Anderson’s
“ amazing revelation” in the current Blackwood’s
Magazine concerning a gambling club ho raided
in the days when he was a boss policeman. Some
of it :
I determined to begin at the top, for, though the lower
class clubs were far the most mischievous, I was not
going to incur the taunt of chevying humble folk and
leaving the “ toffs ” alone. So I held my hand until I was
ready to raid the most fashionable club of the kind in
London—a house in Park Place, St. James’.
Ihe raid duly came off and the gamblers were
gaoled. Anderson proceeds :
One of the disappointments of my official life was that,
during the few minutes necessarily spent in preparing
for the raid, two men passed out whose arrest would
have added to the gaiety of London, for one of them had
held office as his Majesty’s Attorney-General, and was
destined to become Lord Chief Justice of England.
This was, of course, Lord Russell, of Kilfowen,
who was invariably there or thereabouts when
high gambling was in progress, and whom Ander-
son hated for “queering” the Pigott conspiracy
to down Parnell. The alleged “ amazing revela-
tion ” has been common property in London for
years past. Owen Hall built up the main
incident of his “Sergeant Brue ” from it—the
episode of the testy magistrate, caught by the
police in the act of gaming, and forced to give
various concessions as the price of silence.
Premier John Murray told a Melbourne
foreshore committee last week that his views of
mixed bathing had been considerably broadened
by his recent visit to Sydney. He and Watt, it
appears, went to Manly and satisfied themselves
that women in bathing dresses are not nearly as
alluring to the less moral sex as the pietists have
declared them to be. Coming from the head of
the Victorian Government, Murray’s remarks
seem likely to lead to trouble. He said: “I
think woman is least attractive in her bathing
costume. I understand that to be the view of a
colleague who is more of an expert. I kept only
one eye on them. He looked with both eyes, and
even brought a powerful field-glass into use.”
Now, it happened not long ago that a young man
at Warrnambool (which is Murray’s own particu-
lar constituency) was prosecuted for having looked
through a field-glass at some women bathing in
the far distance. Therefore, if that young man
claims damages from the Government for malicious
prosecution he will be able to put Murray and
Watt in the witness box. The humblest subject
has the right to do at Warrnambool what Murray
and Watt did at Manly without being dragged
into a wretched bobby court.
* * * #
A condensed novel, by Alice Grant
Rosman :
Where the bush road twisted, a brown snake, through
the scrub, I saw tile wonderful white form of her. Gums
marched, tall sentinels on either side, their cool, fine
armor of leaves a-glisten in the sun. A blue sky looked
looked down on her, and a little wind followed beseech-
ingly in her wake. The bush that had been sleeping in
the drowsy afternoon wakened at her coming, and down
through windy avenues of trees I heard a thousand birds
salute her.
I, who half an hour before would have laughed at such
a thing, knew that I had met my divinity at last.
She was quite young, and yet she held herself with the
grace and splendor of a queen. There was a certain royal
hauteur in the lift of her head, in the cool eyes that
looked deep into the mysterious green heart of the bush,
in the slim hand that held fastidiously her delicate white
skirts.
Somehow I knew that always her life must have been
set round by harmonious and protective influences, for
her bright youth was untarnished by sordid care or any
touch of sorrow.
And then—l saw that she was looking at me, and my
very heart stood still in wonder. Her red lips parted.
Was it possible that I was to hear the marvellous music
of her voice?
It was !
“What the devil are you staring at, you ?”
said the divinity'.
ONE WOMAN, ONE BILLET.
HE: “ Another new frock! How on earth am I
to pay for it ! ”
SHE : “ Georye , darling, how do I know ? I’m,
your wife, not your financial adviser.”
WHY SMITH LEFT
HOME.
“What’s the matter
with Smith?”
“ Oh, his wife's lent him and the motor-car to the Church Bazaar to run up and down at
threepence a trip.”
If the Victorian law hangs Elizabeth
Downey, who has been found guilty of killing a
girl in an indelicate condition, she will die of in-
ability, to take a hint. She is reputed to have
had a long and reckless experience. Several
times during the last few years she was tried and
acquitted ; but even an acquittal is the sort of
nod that ought to be as good as a wink to a far-
seeing horse. Elizabeth apparently was the
pitcher that went to the well too often, and at
the mature age of nearly 60 she dropped and
broke.
Dr. Gore, Bishop of Brummagem (Eng-
land), giving evidence before the Divorce Com-
mission in London, favored obligatory civil
marriage, leaving the churches to celebrate their
additional rites where the parties desire. A
rakish politician mentioned to a Sydney cleric a
few years ago that he had a Bill on these lines
ready for submission to N.S.W. Assembly.
“Ah,” replied the cleric, “the difficulty the
Church would find would be in catching the man
after the legal ceremony. I served in a country
where legal civil marriage was the law, and my-
self and the wife’s mother had to watch about the
registrar’s door to lay hands on him and drag him
off for the second ceremony. If he escaped there
was no end of trouble in securing him, and if he
wasn’t caught for two or three days he would
point-blank refuse to go through the service
again.” The prelate of Brummagem is, so far as
The Bulletin knows, the first gaitered potentate
to advocate compulsory civil marriage. Possibly
the Church is moving at last. Possibly this is a
wild or warrigal or hatter bishop, who has got so
far ahead of the rest that the balance of the
Church is hull down on the horizon.
* * *
Newton Moore, State Premier at Perth,
has been approached in England re a scheme for
settling a whole million of Jews in his State, and
he is said to be seriously considering the matter.
The idea is stupendous. The mere handful of
people now in the West would be swamped, and
the place would become a Hebrew principality.
When the million arrived Westralia would rank
as the second most populous State in the Common-
wealth, anditwould then bedue forsubdivision into
three States—'Judea, Samaria and Galilee. Kim-
berley, of course, would be in Galilee, and Albany,
Perth and Kalgoorlie ip Judea. The desert
would lie to the east, just as it did in
olden Palestine, and the Upper House would
stand for the Dead Sea, so even that feature
would not be wanting. Lebanon would be miss-
ing. but Newton Moore’s corporation would be
something of a substitute. If the Hebrew can
scrap these days as he did at Samaria and Jerusa-
lem, the proposed immigrants would be a great
source of strength to Australia ; and when they
got their second wind, as it were, they would
be handy for Wade and Ward to borrow from,
and Premier Newton Moses would probably
answer as well as Premier Newton Moore. It
can’t be denied that the Jew is a good citizen,
though he might be improved upon—which can
be said, by the way, of every kind of citizen.
The Bulletin has long been impressed with
the idea that the best race which the world
has yet seen would be produced by the whole-
sale intermarriage of the Hebrews and the Irish.
The resulting nation—the nation of O’Moses
—would own the earth in short order. This paper
suggests that every Jew who is married to an
Irishwoman and every Irishman who is married
to a Jewess should be eligible for a free passage
to Australia for self and family—including Biddy
Rebekah. Patrick Aaron and all the other child-
ren down to Abraham Mike, the baby—and
should receive 320 acres of arable land on arrival.
In a recent article on the shortcomings of
O’Callaghan’s police force, the Age took its dying
oath, so to speak, that last Derby day only one
lone, solitary cop was on duty in the city of Mel-
bourne. Then, turning upon Railway Commis-
sioner Tait, it alleged that it is a common thing
now on the Melbourne suburban lines for 20
people to be crowded into a compartment built to
hold only eight. One way out of the trouble
would be to drag out the 12 superfluous pas-
sengers and make policemen of them. Then
Tail’s trains would be lighter and O'Callaghan’s
force would be stronger.
* * * #
“ Goodolefrefcrade This sort of thing fre-
quently appears in the papers here (London):
“Fifty-five years’ service on the same farm is the
record of John Long, foreman to Mr. E. B. Gib-
son, of Saffron Walden. Mr. Gibson states that
there are no fewer than 34 of his men with
an average service of over 20 years. Many of the
men earn 12s. or 14s. a week, with little extras at
haymaking and harvest; and are content. The
wife of a laborer, who has worked 44 years on the
same farm, yesterday gave her weekly balance-
sheet of the 14s. a week her husband brings home
thus: Rent, Is. 9d. ; bread, 2s. 6d. ; firing,
2s. 6d. ; meat, 35.; ale and tobacco. Is. 3d. ; tea,
sugar, soap, etc., 2s. 6d. ; total, 13s. fid.” This
Hodge married on 7s. a week, and has seven
children 1 Out of his wages he has a sprat a week
over and above expenses with which to buy
fantods. And there isn’t a mention of clothes,
boots, hats, bedding, furniture, literature, or in-
surance money in the wretched statement of
accounts.
* * * *
One F. E. Munro (“of Doll’s Point”)
recently emitted a humorous, two-column, anti-
Labor screech in the St. George Call, a little
sheet which circulates in Joke Carruthers’ old
electorate. Hereabouts is a specimen :
The pretty idea that we can, by turning the handle of
a press machine, get rid of our liabilities, keeping only
a gold reserve of 25 per cent, to meet them, and to give
in payment for same on presentation Federal Consols
(also paper payment, which may or may not be nego-
tiable) is surely wild cat enough even for the condemna-
tion of their brainy organ* The Bulletin, from whom all
the schemes and fads flow : a paper with all the artifices
of pictorial art at its control, with all the chicanery of
their pictures—linear and verbal—use them for the
benefit of their balance-sheet, and give fancy pictures of
the baneful influence of the fat man, and set up the idol
of covetousness, the worship of which compels that the
hand of the worker must ever be at the throat of any
man who has fought successfully upon which the
stability and assurance of the future of our workers or
employers depends.
It is tremendous, this sentence of lfi4 words, but
!vr * sn i. £ ra,nnlar > in fact, it isn’t even sense.
No wharf-laborer or tram-conductor or roelt-
chopper would hash up the language like
that. No deck-hand on a ferry boat would
show such ignorance. As an amendment, th.s
paper begs to move that the writer should give
over high finance and address his intellect for,
say, two years to a steady course of Lindley
Murray. Intellectually speaking, Munro, of
Dolls Point, is trying to aeroplane, as it weie,
before he has learned to start a wheel-barro\v. To
come down to plain facts, there really shouldn’t
be 164 words in a sentence. They are too
numerous.
AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF PA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The nigger fries ; the Self-Made Merchant’s lard
Ambles by truckloads on its Trustful way ;
You recognise the setting? ’Tis not hard—
The U.S.A.
From that bright land where Indigestion’s sword
The wealth of toiling Dives doth deride,
Until he offers an immense reward
For an Inside—
Arrives a novelty called Mother’s Day,
A sentimental notion quaintly blent
With that which shoves this world upon its way—
Advertisement
A white carnation worn upon your chest
For one long Sabbath out of fifty-two
Will indicate that, underneath your vest,
A heart is true.
The world no more will take for granted that
You had a mother, if a flow’r of white
Be not displayed either on coat or hat—
A sorry plight!
But why exclude from public honors the
Progenitor who toiled from year to year,
And only seldom tottered home to tea
Smelling of beer?
He wore his hair off in the fight for bread,
Expensive hats and lollies, college fees ;
His ancient pants (his well-dressed sons oft said)
Bagged at the knees.
His nose was red—his temper very short ;
He often looked as if about to slay ;
But, when bailed up for cash, he’d merely snort
And meekly pay.
His virtues were not those that need a nook
To keep alive ; he had to fight “ all in ” ;
“ He was,” the curate said and sadly shook,
“ A man of sin ! ”
And yet the curate sipped his sinful tea
Whilst raking in his cash for the bazaar ;
The working sinner knew it not, for he
Was then afar.
He grudged no one his pleasure ; though he broke
Many Commandments ere his race was run ;
Hisfav’rite dissipation was to smoke
Out in the sun.
Shall we neglect, forget and meanly flout
The fierce, bald-headed harvester of coin
Who still toils on, or long ago set out
The Blest to join ?
No white carnation would his virtues match—
They need some blossom of a brighter hue ;
Yet from the bushes in the garden patch
We can’t choose blue !
Quite solemnly I rise now to propose
We fix a day to honor poor old Pa
By pinning on (to match his red, red nose)
A waratah.
N - s - w -
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Every Woman Should Know
That Sir Charles A. Cameron, M.D.,
ex-President of the Royal College of
Surgeons, has testified to the absolute purity
of the materials employed in the manu-
facture of Sunlight Soap, and declares
that he himself uses Sunlight Soap.
What every woman does not know is, that
in common soaps she frequently pays for
adulterations at the prices of oils and fats.
Try Sunlight Soap next wash day, and you
will see that Sir Charles A. Cameron is
t-ght—he should know.
THIS WILL INTEREST MOTHERS.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are the ideal medicine
for children. No more nasty medicines that you
have to coax the children to take. After they have
once taken Chamberlain’s Tablets and realise how
easv they are to take, they will be ready for them
again. They are perfectly safe for the youngest
child, and their use will not result in constipation.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
fg
A SMART FANCY VEST.
Our illustration represents a Vest that
sells at sight, and we are selling them in
large numbers.
They are made with soft, fleecy wool
fronts and knitted backs —hence they are
exceptionally warm. The designs lift
them out of the ordinary —being in Dark
Greys, Browns and Greens, to match the
suits that are now fashionable.
In Smart, Striped Designs,
Postage 6d. extra.
1416
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ho wonder Britain is beginning to block
the Chinese immigrant. Here is what a London
city inspector discovered in a Chinese seamen s
boarding-house, according to Lloyd’s Weekly
News:—
The coal-cellar had no oocupants at the time of the
inspector’s visit, but it appeared to have been crowded.
The three beds were still warm. There was no yenULa-
tion and no light. He found clothing, boots, slippers,
pipes and all the paraphernalia of opium smoking, but
could not say if the occupants had been smoking owing
to the stench of the fowls that slept there 1
If it be a fact that the inspector couldn’t smell
John’s habits for the fowls, then the odor of the
London chook must indeed be of a fearsome and
wonderful fragrance. A deadly blow has been
aimed at the reputation of that unhappy bird.
* * * *
“ Foreign-going Master ” writes :
The Wakefield has returned after a fruitless search for
the lost Warafcah. Twelve months have now elapsed since
the luckless vessel left Sydney on its last voyage, and
apparently the only thing remaining is for the British
Board of Trade, to get along with the inquiry. It is not
an altogether unbiassed tribunal, for a finding to the
effect that the Waratah was an unseaworthy, unsafe or
unstable vessel would be a vital blow at the Board of Trade
itself. For the steamer complied with all the require-
ments of the Board, and was also above the 100 class A 1
at Lloyd’s, the hall mark of British shipping. At least, it
publicly exhibited the proofs of the Board of Trades
approval in its certificates and classification, and
the Board can’t find that it claimed these wrongly
without branding itself as incompetent, or crum-
nally careless. In other words, the problem to be
solved has these two main points. Was the Waratah
up to the Board’s standard? Is this standard up to re-
quirements? It is, therefore, plain that the Board of
Trade, which first set the standard, and then certified
that the Lund liner came up to it, is not the proper
tribunal to decide the problem of the vessel’s total anni-
hilation. Considering the serious issues involved, some
other court should try the Board. This is pretty certain,
hut it is far more certain that the Board will be allowed
to try itself.
* * * *
“Vulcan”: The U.S.A. war authorities
have been experimentally gauging their chance
of “ potting” a flying enemy, and the result has
the name of Buckley all over it. A balloon was
anchored only 500f't. up, and 15 shots fired at
6000 ft., from a special one-pounder with a hori-
zontal to vertical movement. Every shot sailed
well over, under, or to either side of the gasbag
with great unanimity, and hit the firma-
ment with a loud bang. An ordinary field
gun, with a 40deg. elevation, was next
tried, with track-denoting smoke shells, but,
other than showing the marksmen the bad-
ness of their misses, this was as big A
frost as the first. Shrapnel, exploding at a speci-
fied distance, and distributing balls over
a wide area, was then substituted for the
smoke trailers, and ultimately exploded the
balloon. Over 90 assorted shots were fired
at the poor, motionless thing for but three
hits, two of which were ineffective in
bursting the sphere. With such showing on the
anchored gasbag, the chances of hitting a “diri-
gible,” with its ascending, descending and propel-
ling powers would be about one in 1000, while the
fly-like mobility of the aeroplane would seem to
give it absolute immunity.
* * * *
This paper doesn’t know Robert Haddon
and his wife Ida, of Caulfield (Vic.), but all the
same it passes them the glad hand
and wishes them luck. The Had-
dons dwell next to St. Paul’s
Church in that suburb, and find
that the perpetual ringing of the
church bell, particularly on the
Sabbath, “makes a loud, jarring
sound, and greatly interrupts, dis-
turbs and annoys them in the
peaceable and quiet possession, use
and enjoyment of their dwelling.”
They aliege that they have asked
the minister, churchwardens and
guardians to desist from the
hereinbefore - mentioned jarring
noise, and that these creatures
have refused to do so, wherefore the
Haddons now seek an injunction
and £5 damages. In a modern
city the average church bell is a
nuisance and an abomination. Also
it is quite unnecessary, for every-
one who wants to attend church
knows quite well where and when
to go. Moreover, lots of churches
worry along without any bell,
gong, whistle, horn, trumpet,
cymbal or explosion of auv
sort. On the other hand, quite
a lot of people consider they
cannot worship properly unless
they make an uproar over the
performance ; and it may be that
the Judge who tries the action
will favor the rowdy persons as
against the quiet ones. Quite a
number of people would never
emerge from the ruck did they not
advertise themselves by some sort of
clamorous bellow or bell or shawm or
tabor or similar devilment.
The difference of sex and tem-
perament, as shown in a crowded
moment. The other day, a nominal
husband cut his wife’s throat and his own
in a Melbourne hotel. She rushed downstairs to
the landlady and cried, “I am dying; for God’s
sake bring me a priest.” A minute later the man
followed. He huskily whispered, “I am dying;
for God’s sake give me a drink.”
* * * *
“Melb”: Apparently the Murray Govern-
ment has done something. The Grange is let—
that mansion and park at the corner of St. Kilda-
road and an eastward street. It was built in
1867 for General Chute, commander of the forces.
The British soldiers went away in 1869, and the
Grange (not moated) was mostly empty for 20
years, till Boomster Finlt took it. Mostly empty
again another 20 years.
NON-COMMITTAL.
ANNIE: “He says he’ll marry me as soon as he can yet his father's consent. Do you think
he’s as good as his word ?"
FAY : “ Just about. His father's been dead a year.”
Another of O’Callaghan’s Melbourne de-
tectives has had mud indirectly poured over him
in a Supreme Court case. The accused had, in
the lower court, pleaded guilty to stealing a
saddle, but reversed his plea when before the jury.
This action being criticised, he swore that the
arresting ’tec had promised to get him off if he
owned up at once. This was denied. Then the
accused said he had had a receipt for the saddle
on him, but it was taken from him at the watch-
house. This was also denied by the ’tec ; but as
the accused produced a witness who testified to
having seen the receipt the jury elected to believe
him, and, in effect, told the ’tec he was a liar. It
was hardly a nice character to give an officer of
the law, but O’Callaghan’s agents have had many
nice characters given them of late.
A MONSTER.
ROTUND INDIVIDUAL (who has fallen over his
wife's dog): “ Damn!!! ”
FOND WIFE: “ Brute! You swear at every little
thing that upsets you !"
“ Firefighter ” suggests a frizzle :
What’s the use of it all, anyhow? Here’s Melbourne,
with as good a lot of firefighters as any city could wish
for, and plenty of machines. Yet they'might as well be
where Shaekleton came from recently—and all because
of the let-it-slide policy of the Metropolitan Board of
Shirks in regard to water supply. There was the big
blaze at Williamstown. The brigades turned out sharp,
only to stand round and count the sparks while half the
place went up in smoke. There wasn’t enough water to
feed one hose decently, let alone a couple of dozen. Then
one of our big timber merchants had a blaze. Same re-
sult—no water ; and a few thousand pounds’ worth of
timber and buildings combusted merrily. Next, another
of our factories turned itself into a fireworks display, and
the same old volume of water was on tap. But the
Board of Perks doesn’t worry at the loss of property, the
destruction of business and homes, or the throwing of
hundreds of employees out of work while factories are
being rebuilt. The only way to shake them up is to set
fire to their meeting-house after having nailed up the
doors and windows. I’ll do the nailing if somebody will
set the kerosene alight.
The good old days were recalled in Sydney
last week by the application of Major Charles
Bourne Airey for a certificate of bankruptcy.
Fifteen or 20 years ago, before the Curse of
Federation came along, tIieN.S.W. service was
something of a joke. This particular major had
£420 a year and allowances, and lived at the rate
of the British majah of the society novel.
Naturally he lived a great deal on his wits and
was bankrupt twice. To-day he lives on a pen-
sion, and is again applying for a certificate. The
poor old warrior did not get his certificate, the
Registrar objecting to his business methods. One
device of his was to pay an account with a
cheque bigger than the debt, taking the differ-
ence in cash. He couldn’t meet the cheque
when presented, to the wrath of his creditor. He
assigned his pension as security, but as pensions
can’t be garnisheed, he was able to draw it just the
same. He also pawned things that weren’t his,
and, altogether, his later modes of living make
sorry reading.
From the Melbourne sharkocracy’s point
of view, the true awfulness of lawyer J. Drysdale
Brown’s indiscretion, as regards the Melbourne
“conspiracy ” case, was in bringing two solicitors
into it. The fact that he couldn’t possibly leave
them out of it is not considered to excuse him.
Paraphrasing the old quote from “The Honey-
moon,” one might say that the legal person who
lays his hands upon other legal persons, except in
the way of kindness, is a bloke so reckless that
’twere base flattery to call him a howling ass.
That, at least, is the way the legal profession
feels about the matter.
Consider the nurse-girl. On June 20 a
Brighton (Vic.) electric car left the rails and
bolted along the street. It charged full speed at
nursemaid Leah Depina, who wheeled a pram
holding a two-year-old he-baby. Leah snatched
the baby and pitched him into a safe spot; then
the 20-ton car jumped on her and did her grievous
injury. It is two or three years since a nurse-
maid at Brighton jumped out of a train after the
nipper she was “ minding. ” It had leaped from
her arms and got through the window. The child
was all right, but the girl was killed. In such
fashion are heroines hired for 6s. a week and
sleep home.
* * *
“ Combustible ” writes
Melbourne recently got a further warning of its ever-
threatening disaster, when a, big Northcote factory was
burned to the ground, and £15,000 worth of property
consumed while the firemen stood and looked on. The
mains in front of the building were ancient Sin. affairs,
reduced to half their size by corrosion, and didn’t supply
more than enough water to give the brigade a drink.
Along a side street ran three huge mains of 20in., lßin.
and llin., filled with water at high pressure ; but as there
were neither fire-plugs nor pillar-hydrants attached to
them, they might as well .have been at Footscrav or
Timbuctoo. The Board of Shirks says its duty ends with
supplying the fluid, and if a council wants plugs it must
ask for them and pay for them ; so between the punc-
tilious Plank and the cantankerous councils the citizens’
property goes in smoke.
A soul-wail from Melbourne town :
Dear Bulletin, — Let me unload a burdened soul upon
you. It is because of a deputation which went to the
Vic. Minister of Railways, to say that there mustn’t be a
wooden railway station at Princes Bridge, and they
talked architecture and assthetics and decorative art.
Quite right of them, say you. But hearken ! The per-
sons who held the discussion were Tait-of-the-Cigar,
Harry Weedon (who fixed the chandeliers in Gov-
ernment House), Alderman Charlie Jeffries the
bootmaker, Mclntosh the draper (who has a shop
opposite the station), and Minister of Railways
and Education Billson. (I wish this last heavy
person were better known to you: he is beautiful
enough to be in a picture show.) The climax came when
Tait-of-the-Cigar said that the Railway Department had
proved itself “aesthetic” by building rockeries.
Rockeries ! They are the mania of city councillors and
park curators —heroes of the spade, who would have
made excellent sextons. Do you know the Melbourne
rockery? On a lawn of beautiful cool green grass is
budded a heap of shattered stones, in shape exactly like
a tumor ; the interstices of the heap are filled with earth
and horse-dung, and therein are planted creepers bear-
ing small purple flowers. These disgraceful blotches mar
nearly every public lawn in Melbourne; and bootmakers,
Cabinet Ministers and Railway Commissioners gaze on
them with secret joy. Oh Lord, oh Lord ! I have done.
Thank you for lotting me unload. —Yours, Biffkins.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Seems to me that kings never
really die, in the vulgar sense of the term.
They are crowned ceremonially, and they
reign ceremonially, and when the time comes
for them to cease reigning, they have royal
obsequies and disappear. They “ hold ”an inter-
ment as they formerly held a levee, and pass out
in the centre of a ceremony. This conviction is
forced upon me by a West Pictures (Melb.) advt.,
which announces : “ The greatest reproduction of
any Public Pageant ever presented.” viz.. “The
Funeral Ceremonies of the Late King.” The
last scene in King Edward’s reign was a cere-
monial pageant.
* * * *
The Victorian Health Department has re-
solved to chase the adulterated milk in a motor-
car. Hitherto, the inspector has been on foot,
and when the man with the milk-cart saw him
coming he fled at a gallop and left the officer
lamenting. Even the swiftest inspector seldom
got more than four samples of milk in a morning,
and he had to run like the Devil to get them ;
and, even then, they were, as a rule, fairly good
samples. All he saw of the very bad samples was
their heels flying round the corner. When the
motor-car gets to work, however, even the fastest
milk in Melbourne won’t have a ghost of a show,
and a reformation is expected to set in.
* * * *
The trunk as a receptacle for the dead
body is coming into fashion again. The cable
reports that at Portland (U.S.A.) Mr. Powers
and Mrs. Johnson cleared the way for an elope-
ment by putting the body of Johnson in a box
and addressing him to a perfect stranger.
And in the Lake Como (Switzerland) horror
Porter seems to have put his wife into the box
and thrown the whole concern into the lake when
the lady was merely stunned. To all appearance
she regained consciousness in the water, and
struggled desperately to get out of her submerged
trap. As a horror the only thing in the same
street with it is one of Edgar Allan Poe’s prize
shocks.
FLOURISHING STILL !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Northern weekly publishes the following serious
news, sent by its London correspondent . oir George
Reid certainly has every personal reason for saying tnar,
there is no decline in the Imperial industry of lunching
and the Imperial industry of dining. Worker, June 11.
Said Georgius Reid :
“ I went to a feed
And came away happy, contented and grateful,
If Britain go down
And forfeit her crown,
Her appetite’s dwindled by never a plateful!
In crunching and munching,
In lushing and lunching,
In sedulous wining
And delicate dining
I’m glad to observe there’s no sign of declining !
“ Her people they spore
With the foe at the door,
And nothing will break up their slumber so leaden ;
Her army is small,
Worth little at all
To make a foe faint at a fierce Armageddon ;
But crunching and munching,
And lushing and lunching,
And sedulous wining
And delicate dining
Show not the least sign in the world of declining !
“ Her factories too
Are filled with a crew
Of poor, pallid creatures, so stunted and wizened ;
The poor in each town
Look wistfully down
When they hear of her banquets, all gay and bedizened ;
But swells go on swilling
And stuffing and filling,
While sedulous wining
And delicate dining
Show' not the least sign in the world of declining ! ”
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The *; NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT «
Koyal Agricultural Societys trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
W "/VO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N S W).
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
There is something wonderful about the self-
importance of the trader. This, for instance, re the
proposed Federal note issue, is from the monthly circular
issued from the sharebroker of Joseph Palmer and Sons
Sydney:—
“ There has been a fair business on the Stock Exchange
during the past month. Prices have not varied greatly
and the level previous to the Federal elections has not
been regained, there being still some misgiving as to the
Commonwealth Government’s policy, especially with
reference to the threatened land-tax and, even more, the
proposed experimental conjuring tricks with currency
and banking. Finance is the most complicated and
hardest to learn of all the sciences, as men with a life-
long experience of the subject are aware ; but it often
happens that those who know least about it are the most
ready to rush in where a Gladstone or a Goschen would
fear to tread. It is impossible to forecast what effects
will follow the issue of paper money by the Government.”
Probably the poor bumptious creature who wrote
that hadn’t the faintest idea that it was by Gladstone’s
advice—he was Chancellor of the Exchequer at the time
—that, in 1861, the principle of State paper money
(legal tender paper money) was adopted in India. In other
words, it was applied in one great act to about three-
fourths of the population-of the empire. The reason why
Goschen didn’t take any hand in the matter is, probably,
that he didn’t enter Parliament till two years later. Even
when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer Goschen made
no attempt to undo Gladstone’s work, so presumably he
approved of it. It was to some extent because of the
success of the Indian paper currency (now 49 years in
existence) that so many other sections of the Empire have
since followed suit. Gladstone and Goschen really did
know something of finance, and the British Parliament
has been occasionally threatened with intelligence in the
-same line. The idea of those who oppose Fisher’s paper
money scheme apparently is that the House of Commons
is an incurable lunatic in money matters, and needs some
Australian sharebroker to explain things to it.
* * * *
The Bulletin has received this letter
“In j'our issue of Junel6, 1910(page 30) appears a para-
graph by ‘ Walker,’in which you comment on the manage-
ment of the Grafton Copper Company at Cangai. You
state that the men start on the day shift at 7.30 and knock
off at 4.30, afternoon shift 4.30 and knock off at 1.30.
‘They have tried to get a change, but the only reply is,
“ Shorter hours shorterpav ! ’’’ My directors desire me
to state that your informant is incorrect in the informa-
tion conveyed to you. The working hours at Cangai
mine for miners are eight hours per day from bank to
bank, included in which is crib time, therefore only
working- seven hours 40 minutes, in payment for which
they receive Bs. 4d. per day, and all dry ground. Further,
you reflect upon the management of the Cangai mine
being mostly of the ‘Cocky and co.’ persuasion ‘and
Cocky and co. has long hours bred in the bone.’
For your information, the management are not identified
in any way with cows. The directors consist of Messrs.
Samuel See (local manager of the N.C.S.N. Co.), William
Zietsch (independent), Peter Kritsch (coach manufac-
turer), and G. H. Varley (proprietor of the Clarence and
Richmond Examiner). My directors take exception to
the paragraph named.—Yours truly, W.McNeill, Secre-
tary.”
H. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants, etc.
(Sydney)
Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. lOp.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
5ept.,’06..£5674 £2OOO 5 p.e. = £937 £2737 £2,737
Mar., ’07.. 4267 2000 6,, ~1125 1142 3,879
Sept.,’o7.. 8466 2000 7,, ~ 1992 4474 8,353
Mar., ’OB.. 7499 2000 7,, ~ 2029 3470 11 823
Sept.,’oB.. 7472 2000 7,, ~ 2029 3443 15,’266
Mar., ’09.. 7362 Nil 7362 22 628
Sept.,’o9.. 6539 Nil 6539 29,’167
Mar., ’lO.. 8573 2000 7 p.c. = 2029 4844 34,011
This co. was formed in 1906 to take over the timber busi-
ness of Hepburn McKenzie. The capital was originally
£77,500, of which £40,000 in preference shares carried, it
was understood, a guaranteed dividend of 10 per cent,
for seven years. This money went into the business,
mainly in liquidation of liabilities. The vendor took
37,500 ordinary shares, and the whole of the capital was
represented by tangible assets. The capital was inade-
quate: it was barely enough to provide for the business
as it stood, without taking any plant and other extensions
into account, and, to keep pace with competition, ex-
tensions were soon declared to be necessary. “Sundry
Creditors” therefore began to move up rapidly, and ill
1907 an effort was made to give the accounts a more pre-
sentable appearance by making a new issue of ordinary
shares. These, which were largely subscribed for b‘y
pref. shareholders, brought in another £20,480, bringing
the total paid capital up to £97,980, at which figure it
still stands. Having spent a large amount on mill plant
the management found that it might be squeezed if it
didn’t get hold of standing timber ; and that meant more
expense. So, in spite of the increase of capital, the
liabilities moved in this fashion
Sept., 1906 ..£11,042 Sept., 1908 ..£60,368
Mar.., 1907 ... 31,415 Mar., 1909 .. 89,701
Sept., 1907 .. 39,848 Sept., 1909 .. 50,801
Mar., 1908 .. 38,342 Mar., 1910 ~ 45,606
A curious feature itl the case is that the divi-
dend was declared in March, 1909, but the payment was
postponed. The item has since figured in the balance-
sheet as “Deferred Dividends.” It is now paid, but
it is merely a liquidation of arrears, and in reality
there is no div. this half-year any more than
there was last half. There still appears in the
balance-sheet a “Dividend Reserve” of £4899, but
what that may be this paper doesn’t pretend to know.
The published accounts are disgracefully scanty. There
is no profit and loss account; the profits are only arrived
at by adding up the reserves and undivided profits of this
half-year and those of last half-year, and then doing a
sum in subtraction (it might reasonably be called distrac-
tion in this case). The gross earnings are not shown-
nor are the expenses ; nor is the amount written-off for
depreciation of plant, buildings and machinery ; nor the
book value of the company’s standing timber; nor
the amount written-off on account of timber, cut
down ; nor the allowance for bad debts. Apparently
there is an overdraft, for there is no mention of one
copper of cash amon£ the assets ; yet if there is an over-
draft it is lumped in with “sundry creditors” and the
amount isn’t stated. Even the name of the bank isn’t
stated. There are Jive reserves (1) Reserve for Equalisa-
tion of Dividends; (2) Dividend Reserve; (3) Reserve
Ordinary Shares; (4) Reserve, Plant and Buildino- • (5)
Special Reserve. There is no attempt to explain “what
they are for. Wheh they warider up it isn’t mentioned
where the money comes from, and if in the future they
wander down, there will probably be no explana-
tion as to where the money has gone to. The
assets consist of ONE huge, slummoc-ky item: “By
Sundry Debtors, Bills Receivable, Buildings, Plant
and Machinery, Stock on hand, etc., £181,626.”
The “ etc.” may mean cash, in which case there isn’t an
overdraft, and The Bulletin’s suspicions are unfounded "
but if “etc.” does mean cash, the cash may be jd. or
£lO,OOO for all that can be learned from the alleged
balance-sheet. On the other hand, “etc.” may mean
the rather bogus and papery item of “goodwill,” and
the goodwill may be £5OO or £75,000, so far as the evi-
dence goes. When a critic looks at such balance-sheets
as that ,of H. McKenzie Limited he realises more fullv
than he ever did'before the need of a new and very much
improved company law in N.S.W. It is a striking
example of the profound reticence of this concern that it
calls itself “H. McKenzie Limited.” It even 'makes a
dark secret of the fact that “ H.” stands for “Hepburn ”
and leaves people to speculate as to whether it means
“ Henry ” or “ Hezekiah.”
*** . *
Swallow and Aeiell, Ltd. (Melbourne), manu-
facturers of foodstuffs :
Added Reserves
, .. t, n . to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
1899.. £6,530 2J p«- cent. =£3648 £2,882 £28,524
1900.. 6,359 2£ „ „ 3648 2,711 31,235
1901.. 7,124 2i ,„ „ 3648 3,476 34,711
1902.. 15,883 3} „ ~ 5473 10,410 45,121
Loss.
1903.. 4,097 Nil 41 0 9 4
1904.. 15,420 Nil 25*604
Profits. ’
1905.. 10,658 Nil 10,658 36,262
1906.. 12,140 1J per cent. = 1824 10,316 46 578
1907.. 12,209. 2sj „ ~ 3648 8,561 55,139
1908.. 2,234 2% ~ 3648 53 725
1909.. 9,696 2J ~ „ 3648 6,048 59 773
1910.. 12,167 3} ~ ~ 5473 6,694 66,467
It isn’t a large dividend—in fact, it is a very small one
yet it is a long time since this co. paid anything better
Possibly the business is of a specially-precarious kind, or
possibly the co. is over-capitalised. It has a paid-up
capital of £145,953, of which £89,953 was received in
money, while £56,000 represents shares issued to the
original Swallow and Ariell firm in payment for the busi-
ness. Whether after events justified that payment or
not doesn’t appear, but the signs are that they didn’t.
For years the biggest item in the balance-sheet read :
By Original Purchase of Freehold Pro-
perties, Machinery, Horses, Rolling
Stock, etc £148,500
Now for a change it reads :
By Original Purchase .. . . .. £148,500
Which seems exactly the same thing in a condensed form.
Unless the person who draws up the balance-sheet ex-
presses himself badly, the natural inference is that
nothing has been written off that huge item—certainly
the form of words gives that impression. Yet the co. is
22 years old. The original horses must be dead or use-
less, and the original machinery and rolling stock must
be showing dreadful signs of wear and tear. Then there
is a certain harassing doubt about the “etc.” In some
cases ‘‘etc.” has a bad habit of being largely the
paper item of goodwill. It may not be so in this
case, but there is no evidence one way or the other.
Company law should lay it down like a ton of bricks—
(l) that goodwill shall always be shown separately ; (2)
that any goodwill item shall be extinguished in not less
than 10 years.
There is a smaller asset, consisting of additions
to “Property, Buildings, Machinery, Plant, etc.,” since
the famous Original Purchase. This stands at £37,282,
and something (amount unknown) is written off it each
year, so it hasn’t the wildly immortal aspect of the
Original Purchase. Also, there is a very considerable
item (£19,709) of “Rolling Stock, Horses,” and other
things, which seems to suggest that the horses included
in the immovable “ Original Purchase ” are more or less
dead and the rolling-stock more or less decaj’ed, even
though no allowance is apparently made on account of
the death or the decay. A large stock item (£78,306),
which includes the £19,70!) just referred to, is said to be
put in “ partly at market value and partly' at cost,”
There is no explanation as to how much is put in one
way' and how much the other, or as to why this dis-
crepancy comes about, or as to what the difference would
be if the whole lot were put in at market value. Some
more figures ensue :
Liabilities.
_ . t , 1905. 1908. 1910.
CaP'tal £145,953 £145,953 £145,953
Overdraft 46,875 47,242 50,453
Mortgages and Debentures 16,512 15,082 12 260
Other Debts 11,844 20,612 20^871
Original Purchase .. .. 148,500 148,500 148,500
Other Properties .. .. 28,756 35,561 37,282
Book Debts 25,470 34,119 35,210
Stock 54,542 65,996 78,306
°ash 178 173 213
In five years the overdraft, mortgage and sundry debts
have grown by about £9OOO. The “other properties”
and the “stock," which appear to some extent a mere
replacement of worn-out items in the “Original Pur-
chase,” have both greatly increased. It certainly looks
like a bad case of over-capitalisation, and the share-
holders would do well to have a complete re-valuation
made, and to face the position, whatever it may be.
* * * *
Australia has passed the infantile stage, the
Stinking Fish stage, and the Backyard Politician stage.
Its people have learned that, instead of being a mob of
helpless incompetents, as the Foreign-trade party vouched
for (and, incidentally, pouched for), they can throw away
their old crutches and butt into the world’s work with
the energy of a national wing forward. The results of
this new-born activity have led Australians already to try
and shoulder from their vicinity the powerful foreign
agencies that have found the trade of the Conti-
nent so profitable. The latest move is against the
big over-sea steamship lines, and the “Merchants
and Shippers Steamship Line,” the first Commonwealth-
owned deep-sea shipping co. has hauled the blue peter up
as a sign that it is about to shove off for the Wide World.
A fleet of fast cargo steamers—five of them—with espe-
cially large and up-to-date refrigerators and space for all
classes of perishable goods, will maintain a regular
monthly service between the Commonwealth and Maori-
land and the United States, Canada and Britain, to
begin with. Three of the vessels are being built at pre-
sent in the Cold Country 7, and one is expected to reach
its port of register (Sydney) in about six months’ time.
Just about that period the probabilities are that a
freight war will break out with great suddenness and
fury, as the managers of the new eo. (the Sydney
Shipping and Mercantile Agencv) have announced that
cargo will be carried at less than the existing rates. The
Australian shipper, therefore, who often enough in the
past cried to high Heaven when he received his freight
bill from the foreign companies, will be given an oppor-
tunity' to deal with an Australian firm which, apart from
the fact that its enterprise demands recognition, is a l ''
long way nearer than Heaven for purposes of protest.
* * * *
Allen JLaylor and Go., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, shippers, etc. (Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re- ‘
Profits, Dividends. serves, serves.
May, 1907.. —10. per cent. =£3ooo £1441
Nov., 1907.. £3439 10 ~ ~ 3000 £439 1880
May, 1908.. 3224 10 ~ ~ 3000 224 2104
Nov., 1905.. 3125 10 ~ ~ 3000 125 2229
May, 1909.. 3730 10 „ „ 3750 2209
Nov., 1909,. 3985 10 ~ ~ 3750 235 9444
May, 1910.. 4259 10 ~ ~ 3795 464 2908
It is a rather precarious and dreadfully combustible
business. The timber yards blaze like Sheol when they
catch fire, and the kind of ship that potters round i n the
timber trade is very inflammable, and very’ smalland sink-
able as well. When the profits are high they are very high,
and when they are low they are dreadfully low, and when
they are medium they are exceedingly'medium. Still
AUen Taylor and Co. seem to have great luck or excellent
management, or both. The above reserves are not all
they possess by 7 a long way 7 . There is also an insurance
reserve which now stands at £10,299. Possibly it would
be better to include it and show the accounts in this
fashion
Reserves
(including
. , To Re- Insurance
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserve).
May, 1907.. 10 p.c. = £3OOO £1576
Nov., 1907.. £3579 10 „ „ 3000 £579 2 155
May, 1908.. 3367 10 ~ ~ 3000 367 2’522
Nov., 1908.. 3185 10 ~ ~ 3000 185 2 707
May, 1909.. 6389 10 „ ~ 3750 2639 5,346
Premiums on New Shares 1875 7 221
Nov., 1909.. 5029 10 p.c. = 3750 1279 8,’500
May, 1910.. Unknown 10 ~ ~ 37951
An unspecified amount I . 7n7
obtained as premiums | •ih
on new shares J
A number of new shares have been issued during the
half-year, raising the capital from £75,000 to £89,205.
The premiums on these (amount not stated, but Appa-
rently large) were added to the insurance reserve. So, in
all probability, was a certain amount (not stated) from
the profits. An amount (not stated) was also written off out
of earnings to cover depreciation and bad or doubtful
debts. It is impossible to be certain whether this pro-
vision was too little or just enough or too much (in
which last case the co. would be forming an internal
reserve, amount unknown), because no figures are given,
but the amount seems to have been liberal. Therefore
the real gross profits were a sum not specified and the
actual net profits were so much, or thereabouts. Mean-
while, a. concrete fact is that the reserves shown are
these: —
Insurance Reserve .. ..£10,298 19 1
Undivided Profit .. .. 2,907 14 2
* £13,206 13 3
The report states that vessels and stocks are all insured,
so exactly what burden of risk the-insurance reserves
has to carry isn’t clear. Apparently it has to carry very
little. It is carefully invested outside the business, and
is a genuine, solid reserve.
Some other figures are as follows
' Liabilities.
Nov., Nov., Nov., May,
1906. 1908. , ' 1909. 1910
Capital .. .. £60,000 £60,000 £75,000 £B9 205
Debts .. .. 9,597 12,302 4,156 379
Assets.
Country mills .. 3,825 1,611 4,197 4 483
Pyrmont wharves
mill, etc. (No. 1) 10,400 7,500 | „ nnA 0 _
Ditto (No. 2) .. 5,500 3,500 j 9 ' ooo B'ooo 8 ' 000
Vessels .. .. 18,050 . 18,275 22,600 23,100
Book debts, etc. 25,517 31,180 29,700 36,190
Cash, etc. .. 1,010 2,700 6,610 12,789
Stocks .. .. 9,502 13,243 13,243 11;725
The position looks very solid indeed, and suggests pro-
gress all along the line. The Pyrmont property in par-
ticular seems to have been written down in a way that
implies a resolve to take no risks of over-valuation’
* * *
Amalgamated Zinc (de Bavay’s) Limited
(Melbourne) issues its first balance-sheet. This co.,
which feeds in the Baillieu stable, has works at Broken
Hill, where it has huge con'racts for the purchase of the
tailings of the South mine and of the B. H. North. The
first half-year has panned out in this wise
Profit £32,194
Less Preliminary expenses .. £3378
~ Depreciation .. .. Nil 3,378
Net profit .. .. £28,816
The fact that there is no allowance for depreciation can’t
be alleged against the co. as a sin, seeing that its new mill
hadn’t started running at the date of the accounts, and
so could hardly have begun to depreciate, while the
old one, which cost £51,105, was taken into the accounts
at only £lO,OOO, consequently a good deal of depreciation
was allowed for in advance. But there are already in the
balance-sheet £132,000 worth of plant, machinery, build-
ing's, railways, horses, vehicles, etc., and the report
mentions that when the second and third units of the
new mill, with their accompanying re-treatmerit plants,
are finished “the expenditure required .. .will probably
amount to £150,000.” So apparently the time is coming'
when the co. will have to provide for depreciation' on
nearly £300,000 worth of plant, a lot of it of a sort
which ages very rapidly. Under the circumstances,
the first half-year’s accounts probably appear to special
advantage, despite the fact that they are loaded with
preliminary expenses. Of course, as a set-off, it must be
remembered that the output will be enormously increased
when the new mill gets going, and, bar accidents, the
profits will be vastly increased also. Accidents are weird
things in this sort of business.
The eo.’s net earnings, as shown above, are
£28,816 for a period of about six months. But of that
£17,845 was not earned in the ordinary Way of business.
When the co. started work it took over a vast mass of
concentrates from the De Bavay Treatment Co., and it
reckons it has made £17,845 on the trade. That leayes
£10,971 earned by the sweat of the company’s brow, or
at the rate of about £22,000 a year. It doesn’t look
much to provide interest on £347,752 of paid-up capital,
especially when depreciation begins to eat into the earn-
ings ; but, of course, a portion of the capital is sunk in
plant which hasn’t begun to earn anything yet. It is
altogether too soon to guess at the financial future of
Amalgamated Zinc. But it must be borne in mind that
whatever dividends it pays will not be all profit by a long
way. Like the mines on which it feeds, it is a wasting
security, and when Broken Hill g-oes back to the dingo
and the wilderness, the shareholders will have a lot of
writing off to do. In a casual way it may be mentioned
here that the co. has already something over £31,000 of
overdraft, which is a rather costly method of financing.
*****
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1902 .. £1156 Bp.c. =£sl6 £640 £1969
Apl., 1903 .. 688 8 „ ~ 516 172 2141
Oct., 1903 .. 949 8,, „ 516 433 2574
Apl., 1904 .. 820 8,, ~ 516 304 2878
Oct., 1904 .. 740 8,, ~ 516 224 - 3102
Apl., 1905 .. 856 8„ ~ 516 340 3442
Oct., 1905 .. 863 8,, ~ 516 347 3789
Apl., 1906 .. 986 8 „ ~ 516 470 4259
Oct., 1906 .. 950 8,, „ 516 434 4693
Apl., 1907 .. 1014 10 ~ ~ 645 369 5062
Oct., 1907 .. 655 10 ~ ~ 646 9 5071
Apl., 1908 .. 664 10 ~ ~ 646 18 5089
Oct., 1908 .. 757 10 ~ ~ 646 111 5200
Apl., 1909 .. 696 10 ~ ~ 646 50 5250
Loss.
Oct., 1909 .. 276 8,, ~ 516 4458
Profit.
Apl., 1910 .. 647 8. „ ~ 516 , 131 4589
So Tub Bulletin's old friend “Monty Peet ” looks up
again to some extent. At the same time, this Melbourne
Monty seems to have very moderate luck. Perhaps
there are too many branches to maintain—the concern
isn’t a very big one, having only about £lB,OOO of its own
money to trade with, yet it lends monish at nineseparate
offices. Plainly it can’t lend much monish at each office,
yet each office means a manager and all the other sun-
dries- Also, each manager means a new and separate
possibility ; if there had been one manager—the right one
—less last year there would have been no embezzlement.
Possibly the remarkable absence of Cohen and Kohn
from the directorate has something to do with the lack of
progress ; barring Skinner, there isn’t a single individual
on the list who seems as if he had any business there.
Anyhow, the Melbourne “Monty Peet” lost £16,022 b\ r
shortage some eight or nine years,ago, and had to write
off nearly £15,000 of capital. Last half-year it Struck
another shortage, hence the loss shown. This half-year
it only adds £l3l to its reserves by way of making up
lost ground. These are the funds it trades with :
Capital .. .. £12,911 6 0
Deposits .. .. 2,964 010
Overdraft .. .. 2,040 5 5
Reserves .. .. 4,589 5 2
£22,504 17 5
It isn’t a very large amount on which to run 27 balls—
that is to say, nine establishments decorated with three
balls each. The large and vigorous bill-discounting and
miscellaneous finance business which is done by the Syd-
ney institution of the same name is hardly possible under
these conditions.
* * * *
M.I.D. : Hard to advise you. Think you had
better get rid of the lot bought at 31s. 9d., and hang on
to the 19s. packet .. .G.F. (VV.A.): Cannot give you any
more definite address than Rhodesia just now. The mail
who may know is at present away on holiday and will
not be back until the end of July.... J.E.P. : (i) Approx,
value, so far as we can ascertain, is about 30s. per ton.
(2) To make it pay here you would need to get 70 per
cent, stuff. Largest supply coines from the Ural Moun-
tains. (3) It is chiefly used for treating steel. (4) Do
not know if there is a deposit in the locality mentioned.
One local metal-dealing firm advises us that it wouldn’t
care to bother with the metal ... Seddon : Very little
information available and it isn’t encouraging.
* * * *
Though quite a number of Melbourne citizens,
like those dwelling in other Australian towns, believe
they are being plundered by Private Enterprise gas com-
panies, it remained for a person at Armadale (Vic.) to work
out the exact details of the system of highway Barabbasof
which he was the victim. Perceiving that the Gas Co.
published a statement to the effect that “ an incandescent
burner giving 25-candle power will consume only one
cubic foot of gas per hour,” he took a particular note of
his consumption. It worked out at 434 burning hours
of one light each, per. month. An allowance of 10 per
cent, for pilot lights and leakages brought the consump-
tion to 477 cubic feet per month. Yet the meter and the
bill charged him with a consumption of 2300 cubic feet
for April, 2400 cubic feet for May and 2700 cubic feet for
June. He drew the Gas Co.’s attention to the dis-
crepaiicy, but as that gradual entity merely acknow-
ledged his communication and hinted that it might
answer it at some future date, he cut the expensive
vapor off and had electric light laid on. .
* * * *
“Oby”: The Australian Gaslight Co., now
excitedly protesting against nationalisation, has been
lighting Sydney streets for just on 70 years. Sydney was
the first settlement south of the Equator to be lighted
with gas, Hobart next, Melbourne later in the same
year, and Adelaide and Brisbane after. Sydney could
have started a month earlier, but the directors held the
illumination back so as to celebrate the Queen’s birthday.
London had been lighting its streets with gas since 1814.
Before gas was laid on in Sydney the main streets were
lighted with oil and tallow lamps, few and far between
and, as a rule, smelling fearfully. For a time the people
w-ere shy of the new illuminant. Private houses and
shops refused to take it in, as it might explode. There
were no gas meters then ; charges were made from dusk
till 10 p.m. six nights a week, and if gas were burned on
Sunday a sixth was added. The charges worked out at
about half the cost of sperm oil or tallow candles. Now
N.S.W. has four metropolitan gas manufacthries—the
Australian, Manly, North Shore and Railway Com-
missioners’—and there are about 40 in the country. It
was thought some time ago that electricity would knock
gas out, but gas is extending its mains and enlarging its
output. Gas stoves grow in popularity and gas engines
make increasing- demands. ' _
.Truth is stranger than fiction, even, in mining.
Wizards of the Stock Exchange, when they desired to bear
Junction North shares, conjured up all kinds of possible
set backs at the mine, from a breakdown in the mill to
the collapse of the main shaft; but the hardiest
grizzly ” of them all dared not suggest that the lode
would peter out at 1200 ft. And yet that is what the
directors have been reluctantly compelled to admit has
occurred.' In this decidedly uncomfortable dilemma the
eyes of the management are turned hopefully fto-
wards the once-despised Junction, and the directors are
piously praying that the western ore body in that mine
will extend into the Junction North. Without some such
THE PATIENT METAL-OARRIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the designs for the new notes have been pre-
pared, and the machinery is set up, the Commonwealth
Government will issue its own special notes (including a
note for 10s.)— Joyful announcement in a daily paper.
I changed a five-pound note to-day,
Such wonders do not oft occur ;
The lady at the desk marked “pay,”
Said, “ I have only silver, sir.”
I looked her straightly in the eye,
And answered in a manner cold :
“I’ll thank you much if you will try
To find at least one piece of gold ! ”
The lady searched the till again,
And did not from her labor cease
Until she found (it caused her pain)
That she had one ten-shilling piece.
Half-crowns she gave me (twenty-four),
T|pn florins and a single “ sprat,”
Then shillings eight. I loudly swore—
The metal could have filled my hat.
I took the half-sov. and the rest,
Wishing I’d brought a reticule ;
And stuffed with coin my pants and vest
Till I was like a treasure mule.
I tottered out into the light
Without returning any thanks ;
My trouser pockets—left and right—
Banged savagely upon my shanks.
I gave a shopman half a crown.
Of change he gave the wrong amount;
At least, I thought he took me down
(f cared not to unload and count).
“Two shillings, sir, was what you paid ;
I thought you looked a bit surprised ;
The same mistake is often made.”
I hastily apologised.
I bought a paper from a lad ;
A p aper and five coppers he
Surrendered and rushed off like mad
Into a low obscurity.
I wondered at the moment why *
He fled as soon as he had sold.
(When I got home I found that I
Had paid-for sixpence—good; red gold.)
■ But ere I reached my lonely den
I proffered sixpence on a tram ;
Amongst my change were halfpence ten ;
I muttered desperately, “ Damn !
“ What use are ha’pennies to me ?
Here, hang it, take the blessed lot! ”
He grinned : “ I’m sorry, sir. Yer see,
Them ha'pennies is all I’ve got! ”
The drapers’ useless copper discs
Into my sagging vest I thrust ;
I knew that 1 was taking risks,
Bor.pockets have been known to bust.
Homeward I staggered doggedly,
And plodded through the counting job,
To find two rogues had beaten me
For just exactly ten good bob.
Straight I inquired of Heaven why
Sane citizens should be weighed down
With metal till they sink and die
Through dragging mints about the town.
N.S.W.
EBENEZER SMALLCHANGE


our
SotKctt.il>
■ Will he
:->C< arr
out
•V"
•s-
J
j;
%
JA- JV/A
%
m
j
*-. : i:
me
mm
ns
THE BUTTERS
VACUUM FILTER.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building;, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalg;oorlie.
[1
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
adventitious aid, the life of the Junction North doesn’t
seem to be worth more than five years’ purchase. So confi-
dent were the directors that an ore-body of such healthy'
appearance was assured of a long life, that even after ordin-
ary' exploratory' operations had failed to locate the lode
below 1200 ft. they still went on with the shaft-sinking
below the 1334 ft. level. Now that all hope of picking up
the ore body has been abandoned, shaft-sinking has been
stopped. This development of the mine at depth, so far
as it has gone, has been a very expensive job, and
coming on top of the various other troubles has no
doubt made the directors sorry thev paid that last
dividend.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 is going to have
another shot at the Rising Sun, where one of
those nice-looking but meagre ore bodies, which are
typical of the flat country beyond the southern end
of the main line of lode, has in the past lured many thou-
sands of pounds out of the pockets of optimistic specu-
lators. The Sun mine has been opened up after a style to
a depth of 500 fr., and in the course of the operations a
good-sized dump of ore grew at the shaft’s mouth. In
the boom time of 1907 some cheeky wild-catters tried to
persuade the public that a concentrating mill ought to be
erected to treat this dump, and a similar one at the New
White Leads. The mill might have gone up only' the in-
terested parties quarrelled over the question of which of
the two dumps was the more valuable. Nobody' troubled
much about the value of either dump after the boom
passed by. At the present time, Block 10 is carting the
Rising Sun dump away' to its mill, to mix with the
wretchedly poor dirt that is being mined on its own pro-
perty' ; but the imported product makes no improvement
in the mill work, and is scarcely worth the cost of haul-
age. Block 10’s mill recoveries now run about 66.2 per
cent, lead and 44.5 per cent, silver.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek tin mine (N.S.W.) has been
estimated to produce something like £20,000 worth of
stream (in frqm the ground already opened up, but the
tin market may influence the return. There will be some
difficulty in working this deep tin lead with its numerous
hard bars and the heavy soakage of water, so the manage-
ment favors opening up the ground more extensively be-
fore increasing production. Another shaft would be of
considerable advantage in draining the ground, and
improving the ventilation. The clean-up for the week
was 2J tons of black tin, which seems a very' moderate
yield—considering all the talk about 2ewt. of tin to the
cubic yard.
For the half-year to March 31 Kangiara mines
(N.S.W.) raised 26,826 tons of mixed copper-lead ore,
from which 5265 tons of carefully picked ore was sent
away. This realised £24,354. All the rich assays and the
excitement about the odd dwt. of gold only give the
shipped material an average value of between £4 and £5
per ton, and this represents less than a fourth of the ton-
nage that has to be mined and paid for. Kangiara ex-
pects to knock out some profit from the dump, but the
profit will come in very gradually' unless an increased
quantity of concentrates are produced and the metal
market improves. Last week’s run at the dressing mill
produced 26J tons of lead concentrates, and the shipments
included 13 tons of this product, together with 14 tons
17cwt. of copper ore and 2 tons 4cwt. of silver-lead ore.
Very little development is going on, and expenses have
been cut down.
* * * i *
Kyloe (N.S.W.) has declared a sixpenny divi-
dend, and 414 tons of ore, estimated to average 10| per
cent, copper, were raised for a week’s work. But Kyloe
cannot be called a 10 per cent, proposition, for there are
losses to be considered in the process of concentrating-
the lower-grade stuff, and also in reducing concentrates
and prill ore to metal. The smelter return for the week
of 9| tons of copper, contained in about twice that ton-
nage of matte, shows an extraction of a shade over 15
per cent, copper.
* * * *
Some old claims, though always dying, never
really give up the ghost. ’Wav back in ’67 David Hunter
opened up a mine at the Mornish, nearßoekhampton(Q.).
It did well for a time ; but in the early ’7o’s Alick Forbes, a
quaint character on the Mornish (he was a brother of
Archibald), wrote of the field—in his “Voices of the
Bush ”
“ Weep, Mornish, weep, the hour has come
When Alick has to hump his drum.”
Mornish has been weeping ever since, yet the Hunter
mine still tries to be bright, and turns out a few ounces
now and then.
* * * *
Brilliant P.C. (Charters Towers) gets more
market support on the strength of expected develop-
ments in the winze which is being sunk from No. 2 east
level (about 1613 ft. vertical) 220 ft. east of the New Bril-
liant Freeholds boundary. At first the vein was rather
small and of medium quality. The good average yield
from the Stockholm mine has done a great deal to hold
the market for Brilliant shares, but the good returns are
only obtained by selecting the best stone, for Stockholm
prospects are very in and out.
Brilliant Central (Charters Towers) has crushed
181 tons for £1340, which is the best return for some
time past. Brilliant Deep crushed 81 tons for £504,
which probably includes some of the stone obtained in
putting up the rise from the 2413 ft.. level towards the
Brilliant Blocks boundary. The improved appearance of
this rise and of No. 3 south-east level have brought the
Brilliant Deep into better favor. New Brilliant crushed
1327 tons for an average of £3 18s. 10d., and Mills’ United
1030 tons for an average of £2 13s. Bd., which is poorer
than usual.
* * * *
New' Brilliant Freehold (Charters Towers) is
deepening its shaft, with a view to opening up No., 4
level. Twb more winzes have been started from No. 2
level, making four winzes altogether. The two most
westerly winzes are following the best stone, but they
ire not down deep enough yet to add much to the value
of the mine. Arrangements are being- made to continue
driving Mills’ United’s No. TO level, which is No. 4
in the New' Brilliant Freehold, and the extension
of this level into the heart of the latter co.’s lease
will be watched with a good deal of interest.
There was talk some lime since of extending Mills’ No. 9
level, which is equal to the Freehold’s No. 3, but that has
not been done. No. 3is being extended from the Free-
hold’s shaft, and appears to carry rather a large forma-
tion dividing the reef into hanging wall and footwall
sections, which also accounts for the shaft having met
with w'hat appeared to be tw r o separate reefs. No. 3 has
nearly 900 ft. to go to reach Mills’ United’s boundary.
East Mexican (Charters Towers) has, according
to the manager’s report, been following a bunchy reef
since driving has been continued in No. 5 level. Bunches
of quartz of poor quality 7, up to lOin. thick, were fol-
lowed by' veins of prill ore. These variable prospects are
reminiscent of No. 5 right along from Mills’ boundary 7 .
The New Brilliant Freeholds level on the East Mexican's
boundary has been driven 419 ft. from No. 1 rise, but
prospects have varied a great deal, and the last report
states that the level is following formation for the full
width of the drive. Good stone is being stoped east and
west of No. 1 rise from the Mexican’s bottom level, and a
larger crushing will be put through. Bunches of stone
have been met with in sinking the shaft, but it has been
mainly the development in No. 5 level that has influenced
the market.
* * * *
East Oriental and Glanmire (Gympie) is getting
improved week-end amalgam returns, and the specimen
stone it is saving north of the slide should improve the
crushings. Prospects started to improve in the inter-
mediate level above 2100 ft. vertical at a point about
100 ft. north of the rise ; and although only a short run
of payable stone has been proved, the outlook is much
more encouraging than it was. A crosscut a few feet
back from the northern face has holed through
to the eastern workings, which now show a wide
face of low-grade crushing stuff. The eo. is
also driving south at the 2154 ft. level in dis-
turbed grey slate, and expects to cut a diorite bar
before long. South Glanmire and Monkland (Gympie)
continue crushing from the 721 ft. and 990 ft. levels on the
Inglewood reef. The last monthly return was £846 from
640 tons of stone. The Inglewood stopes at the 721 ft.
level are proving mullocky, and the stone requires a good
deal of picking ; but the quality at the 990 ft. level has
improved with 2ft. of quartz showing in places. A long
crosscut at the 915 ft. level is expected to strike the Ingle-
wood reef before long.
* •* * *
Hampden, Cloncurry (Queensland), is prospect-
ing the south end of the Hampden lease—adjoining the
Hampden South Consols—with encouraging results. A
winze has been sunk 29ft. from the surface, and has
entered a wedge of high-grade ore. Prospecting drives
from No. 2 and No. 3 shafts have not been very success-
ful at the south end. The secondary enrichment of
shallow ore bodies is better understood than it used to
be; so the discovery of 20 per cent, ore under a mass of
low-grade material is nothing very wonderful. The
jubilation over the make of ore at the 400 ft. level of the
Duchess mine has died out because the lode going north
at 255 ft. from the shaft has become much poorer (5£ per
cent, copper for 4ft. 3in.). The building of a branch
railway—a distance of about 40 miles —to the Duchess
mine would be an expensive undertaking, and the
Hampden Co. would like the Queensland Government to
relieve it of some of the financial strain.
Exceptionally rich tin ore has been struck in
the Irvinebank Co.’s North Australian mine at Watson-
ville (N.Q.). The deposit is several feet wide, and is said
to carry high-grade ore. The co. is erecting a battery to
deal with it. It was from this property that Casey and
another got £64,000 worth of tin in about 12 months
during the early whirly days.
The Victorian gold-dredger, in the aggregate,
is on a very lean wicket. He has half a million
sunk in plant, and he spends about £300,000 a year on
wages and new plant and repairs, and his earnings run
to about £52,000 per annum, or some 10 per cent, on his
original outlay. This, for a wasting show, isn’t enough.
Of course, some claims do better ; but the streaks of fat
have of late been surrounded with big patches of
lean. Last 12 months’ output has fallen off by
16,0000 z., bringing the total for the year, from
111 plants of all descriptions—buckets, pumps,
sluices, and jet elevators —-to 88,3390 z. The said amount
came out of 738 acres, so that the yield per acre is 120 oz.
Most of the plants seem to have run into poor dirt.
Tewksbury, being up against the Bright Council re the
right to cut alongside a road, has shut down one of his
plants and paid off his hands. Thus, as usual, the net
result of a row is that the worker gets biffed, even though
it isn’t his row and never was.
Morwell (Vic.) mining is flickering because
someone has sent out a prospectus saying that Buckley’s
claims, with their 800 ft. of brown coal, have been sopped
up by Bull. The Argus divulges that the vendors are
the Australian Commonwealth Fuels and Oils, Ltd., and
the Latrobe Valley Syndicate, Ltd., but it keeps the lid
down tight about what money is being collared by those
primary concerns, or what the owners on this
side get out of the float. The Morwell float’s
financial equipment is to be £1,000,000 nominal capital.
Present issue is 430,000 prefs. to carry 6p.c. interest and a
load of 320,000 £1 ordinaries, the latter to go to the vendors.
This would be a neat cut out of the fattest float, but to
fill up the story a little £47,000 cash additional is to
flutter into the vendors’lap. Geologist Stirling used to
bleat out about the “ potentialities of Morwell brown
coal,” and got a cheap trip to Germany' to find all about
what the sauer-krauters do with that sort of stuff. None
of his bleats ever raised a response in Bull till the oil boom
came along. What with that, producer gas and
electricity, Morwell has got a chance. If half the talk
over it materialises, Jack Murray’s State coal mine won’t
be alive long to tell the tale. Perhaps that’s why Bill
Baillieu does not blow the Outtrim-Howitt horn as
of vore.
* -X * *
Williams’ United, Berringa(Vic,), has swopped
mine managers, R. W. Ditchburn having been followed
by W. Langsford, of the Birthday', near by. Reason isn’t
far to seek when the last six months’ work is looked at.
The 15,265 tons obtained averaged only a shade over
2dwt., and it doesn’t take a mathematician to figure out
that such work couldn’t yield profits. Ditchburn has a
splendid record for good work done on a show' where a
little had to go a long way 7. Williams’ United to-day not
only h is less gold, but less stone in the bottom ievel.
Still, the co. has been managing pretty well, for, despite
hard times, it has onl.v drifted into debt £416, which, for
a Ballarat district concern, is modesty indeed.
Malaya Tin is a Melbourne P.P.C. order of com-,
pany. Readers of etiquette books know what the mystic
letters mean, and, looking down the balance-sheet, there
seems to be a fair amount of leave-taking. The profit and
loss account tells of an underwriting commission of £lOOO
worth of shares, there is a part-up of 22,500 Tatloclcs
Soraki shares to help waiting shareholders to keep up a
lofty style, and there is, whatever it may mean, a “ pro-
motion account” of £2500. The modest item is the Mel-
bourne salaries account., which is built up on Dotheboys
Hall lines—a pile of wmrk and very'little screw. With
Tatlocks off, and with the Kota and the Kampar and the
Malacca options on, there ought to be more visitors to the
Malaya, offices and more P.P.C. cards when the next
float is shoved through.
Mount Lyell (Tas.) for 12 weeks to .Tune 16 pro-
duced 2010 tons of blister copper—containing 1977 tons
of copper, 156,6790 z. of silver and 28030 z. of gold. The
smelter treated 93,292 tons of ore, so it required, on the
average; slightly over 46j tons of crude ore to produce a
ton of blister copper. The stuff handled has been of
lower grade than usual, and it is an unfortunate coinci-
dence thatlthe mine has had to face a drooping copper
market. The average gold value on the total return
doesn’t amount to quite 2s. 6d. per ton of ore, yet furnace
concentration of this small quantity of gold brings the
. total gold value to 28030 z., worth about £11,772 (at 8!s.
per oz. of fine gold). Silver for the 12 weeks Was worth
£15,667, and the copper (at £5O per ton) £98,850. The
total value produced was £126,289, or slightly over 275.
per ton of ore. Last half-y r ear the output of blister
copper was 4164 tons, and Mount Lyell has to make
rather a fat profit on this lot to shell out its £105,000
dividend and bonus.
-K # * *
Hills Proprietary, which keeps Murrin (W.A.)
from being “ vagged” under the Invisible Means of Sup-
port Act, has just been taken over by Gold Industry Ltd.
This co. includes among its shareholders Moreing, Loring,
the two Horns, W. Jones, and several other mining
heavyweights, and is managed by V. S. Shalleross.
“ Hills ’’ is its first “spec,” and the purchase-price is said
to be £25,000.
•Jr * * *
Principal Westralian results for'May re-
value
Ton- Re- per
nage. venue. Profit. ton.
Greit Boulder .. .. 18,490 £49,273 £25, JOS 53/3
Ivanhoe .. 19,635 40,929 20,009 '4l/8
Sons of Gwalia ... ..13,510 23,647 10,601 36/-
Kaigurli 10,890 28,334 ,14,687* 52/-
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,690 39,635 6,802 32/1
Great Fingall .. .. 10,753 15,370 2,304 28/7
Oroya Links .. ..11,480 15,087 3,426 , 26/3’
Oroya-Brownhiil .. 21,0841 5,431 2,918 3/6
Hainault 5,913 8,076 1,504 27/4
Oroya-Black Range . . 4,500 9,035 2,347 40/2
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,355 6,471 2,810 50/8
South Kalguili' .. .. 9,350 2,835, 26/9
Black Range .. .. 2,115 7,107 3,149 67/2
Gwalia South .. .. 2,452 4,658 1,391 38/-
Ingliston Consols .. 900 2,870 1,591 63,9
Ingliston Extended .. 780 2,220 634 57/—'
Vivien .. .. ~ 4,050, 4,898 703 24/2
Northern Mines .. .. 7,402 8,926 243 24/1
Marawa .. :. .. 2,460 4,100 620 33/4
Boulder No. 1 .. .. 2,106 3,000 635 28/6
Lake View Consols .. 9,980* 1,847 529' 3/8
Associated Northern .. 2,513 6,8831 250 24/
Chaffers 4,340 6,326 231 29/2
Sirdar 1,100 1,128 211 20/6
Marvel Loch .. .. 752 1,48? 230 39/5
Princess Royal .. .. 423' 817 74 38/7
Loss.
Associated 12,004 14,688 152 24/5
Lake View and Star .. 11,608 13,453 439 23/2
Ida H. .. . . ~ t,lOO 2,134 590 38/9
Gwalia .. 4,830 6,706 994 27/9
Cumberland .. .. 362 629 3Q6 34/9
Westralia Waihi .. .. 1,020 1,280 33 25/1
* Expenditure included £BO7 special prospecting.
t Accumulated residues.
1 Including £3865, proceeds from public crushing.
* * * *
Bewick, Moreing and Co., who came rather late
on the scene, have hurriedly taken options on seven or
eightjeases at Meekatharra (W.A.), and are on the look-
out for more. Should these Shows turn out well, two or
three will be handed over to the Great Fingall, and the re-
mainder passed on to one or more members of the Oroya
family. The depressed and somewhat decrepit Nannine
field, in the same neighborhood, has been invaded by the
firm in the interests of the Fingall co.
* * * *
Mararoa (W.A.) is still blossoming. Down in
the bottom of the 1 winze at 110 ft. below the No. 6 north
level the reef is officially reported to be worth 625. for
sft., with no footwall showing. Sinking has been stopped
and drives started from the floor Of the winze. Mean-
while Norseman is elated at the probability of the mine
living at depth, and anyone who is indiscreet enough to
insinuate anything to the contrary’ runs a risk ( of rough
handling and a ducking in the nearest horse trough to
hoot. According to acting-chairman Rutter Clarke,
quarterly Is. dividends will be maintained ; but the one
that is payable next month may possibly be held over
until August.
■* * * *
Some more gilded yarns about Gwalia Proprie-
tary, alias Tower Hill (W.A.):—“I am driving on our
new reef with most satisfactory results ; in places the
bunches of ore are of marvellous richness. ... The width
of the lode is now 7ft. ; present assay values loz. to 2oz.
gold to the ton.” Office note: “ Cable subsequently
received confirming the above, as follows: —‘Reef looks
splendid ; have now 6ft. 6in. of ore. Vein matter assays
2oz. per ton of 20001b.”’ The manager responsible for
this puff has gone “’Ome,” and as a parting shot The
Bulletin says it is right in stating that, although the reef
in this mine is good in places, it is not consistently pay-
able, and not nearly enough work has been done on it
to warrant the exaggerated reports cabled as to its value.
Speaking at some pint-pot function near Perth
the other day, ex-Speaker Jacoby (\V.A.) said that yes-
terday was the day of gold, to-day was the day of wheat,
and to-morrow would be the day of fruit. Had Jacoby
any headpiece for finance he would probably have added
that yesterday was the day of borrow, to-day was the
day of unredeemed pledges and an insane desire to bor-
row more, and in the ordinary course of things to-morrow
would be the day of uncertificated insolvency. As regards
Jacoby’s cheap sneer at the declining gold industry, he,
as a self-made Sandgrpper, should be the last to slight an
asset which, for the last decade and a half, has, provided
the State with most of its visible means of support and,
despite a falling output, is doing so still. *
All hope of getting a dividend this year had
best be abandoned by Boulder Perseverance shareholders.
By the time the re-organised mill gets going in August,
the credit balance shown on the 1909 balance-sheet will
have been swallowed up in plant trimmings and de-
velopment, as well as a lot of additional hard cash be-
sides, and if the co. squares itself by the end of 1910 it
will do very well. After that all depends on the milling
grade. It certainly won’t be any better than it was be-
fore the fire, and the chances are that it will be a bit
“wuss.” In that case dividend day will come round
about once a year, and the amount doled out won’t
exceed a bob.
* * * *
Southern Cross (W.A.) is reported to have at
last secured representation in Bewick, Moreing and Co.’s
stable. The firm, so the story goes, has purchased the
Mountain Queen on behalf of a London co. for 8000 sovs,
and the same number of shares, and the nine months’
option recently taken by it on the Corinthian North is
believed to be for the same concern.
Great Fingall (W.A.) has had its expectations
roused by an interesting development in the bottom
workings. Just above the point where the No. 17 level
is being opened up off the deep inclined winze the white
quartz, which came in below the No. 13 level and put a
damper on things, has given place to the blue quartz
which formed the reef when it was at its best. So far
values are low at No. 17 level; but the change which has
taken place is regarded by the management as a good
omen.
All sorts of inducements are being held out to
officials in the nigger-worked S’African mines to bring
down costs. On some properties a bonus is given to the
man achieving the greatest footage per month, in others
an extra bit of palm grease is handed to the captains and
bosses where very good underground work has been done,
while at the Nourse group the new system of offering a
reward of £1 per month to underground officials for each
reduction of Id. per ton effected in costs is being tried.’
The inhuman feature about the whole business is that the
nigger who has to do the extra bullocking gets nothing.
In all probability he will soon see through this lopsided
arrangement. If he doesn’t, the Society for the Protec-
tion of the Black and Brindled should step in and do
something to prove its sincerity.
* * * *
The Bulletin has always maintained that the
talk frequently heard about somebody’s working costs
beating somebody else’s is mostly flam, and a reference re-
cently made to the subject by the president of the Rand
MineManagers’ Associal ion supports that view. In his
annual address this official said that, apart from the
wholesale unfairness of the present basis of comparison
between mine and mine and month and month —namely,
the cost per ton milled—the system also offered a
premium to bring down costs illegitimately by carrying
stopes wider than need be for maximum profit, and
in other ways. He thought that a system which en-
couraged tricks of this sort should be bundled off the
premises, and a scheme adopted whereby profit should be
compared on the basis of areas worked or square fathom
exploited. But, as he sensibly added, when all is said
and done, the main thing to remember is that no two
mines have really similar conditions, while even any given
mine varies from month to month ; and therefore com-
parison on a cost or profit basis is dangerous if not mis-
leading except to those fully informed of the circum-
stances.
- 1 - I —— l r 7 —~ r
The'.A.M.P. management looks as though it
would be quite willing to grab an.y handy excuse for
leaving London “with dignity.” Things there are not
what they were cracked up to be. The big re-insprance
business hasn’t arrived—experienced men never expected
that it would or, if it did, they reckoned it would not
■be worth having. Last year only about 350 policies were
written altogether. The ruling idea now is to make the
London business do as little damage as possible to the
Australian biisiness. The society in England is, there-
not joining in the scramble for business on the
usual commission basis. In fact, it boils do.wp to this:
On the strength of the great success achieved by the
officb as an Australian concern, the management is
hoping that a policy will drop in now and again in
and thus make it worth while to keep the doors
open.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearing's
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply' to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
“Ferrodor” Paint.— Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesburv, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. £>oes not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.* i
*** ' * *
COAL IS SAVED in the generation of steam
by absolutely reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
steam tight piston glands and steam joints, also perfect,
insulation of boilers and pipes to prevent radiation and
ensure transmission of heat. Bell’s Asbestos-Packed
Water Gauges, Blow-off Cocks and “Belfry” Patent
Steam Valves, Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing and
' “Bellite” Jointing and Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conduct-
ing Composition will ensure economy and safety
to steam users.—BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY LTD., 315 Kent Street, Sydney. Also agents
for THE FARNLEY IRON CO., LTD., and FRASER &
CHALMERS, LTD., Mining Machinerv.*
The works of the, Austral Otis Engineering
Company at South Melbourne are at present busily en-
gaged in connection with the copper industry', and
among the works in hand are a complete converter plant
for the Great Fitzroy Mines, consisting of two blowing
stands with steam power turning' gear, and six steel con-
verters each 10ft. 6in. b.v 7ft. 6in. diameter, two pneumati-
cally operated telescopic blowing hoods and main flue
connections, concentrate briquetting machines and water
jackets for the blast furnaces ; several very large water
jackets for the Great Cobar Copper Mines ; steel framed
converter housing, two pneumatically operated telescopic
blowing hoods and main flue connections for the converter
plant, and h.vdro-pneumatic tamping cranes for converter
lining, l for Wallaroo and Moon ta Copper Mines, South Aus-
tralia ; steel water jackets and crushing rolls for the Phillips
River Copper Company 7, West Australia ; and a complete
100-ton water-jacketed blast furnace and steel main
chimney, sft. diam. and 150 ft. high, for the Hampden
Cloncurry Mines, Queensland. The Company have also in
hand the construction of the extensive coal screens, con-
veyors, automatic tipplers and coal hoppers required
for the State Coal Mines at Powlett River.*
* * * *
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets.
In large size, Bin. x 4in. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney.* [1
* * * *
The Financial Times, London, in its issue of
9/10/’OB, comments as follows upon the last report of The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited We
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in
twelve months can secure proposals for more than a
million and three-quarters, and issue 4853 policies for
£1,278,000. However vigorous the driving may be, such
a result could not be attained if the Society did not offer
what many 7 people want.”*
WOOD PIPE is specially adapted for Aus-
tralian conditions where the soil often contains alkali and
mineral which would soon eat away metal pipes. In
Wood Pipe there is no exposed metal. Catalogue from
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
' Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grim wade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* » * •
Refractory Minks.— Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory 7 ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.— Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S. W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout. Australia by 7 Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Meplian
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted b.v consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc,, 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collius-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * •* *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. SiIjBERBRRG and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


What s the time? Just the time for a
(?lass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE, tlie world-wide Cold
and Grip Remedy removes rause. Call for full name.
Look for signature—E. W. GROVE. l/l£. [2
Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Glv33 a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, harness, Leggings and ail Leather Goods,
LEWIS & WHITTV, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY. t ,
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
FOR
mm
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One*Third of Your Running Cost.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE ONLY TIME HE WAS SLOW.
SLINKER McCORMIC : “Fancy cr smart bloke like
Hoppy Hymes bein’ run over be a funeral.
What in thunder was he doin’ ?”
SOUR HARRIGAN : “ Lookin’ fer work."
S.A. Criminal Court lately had a highly
eccentric witness in the l>ox ; and he came from
Nildottie. (London Punch please copy.)
“ Edyson ” : Whether the faithful dog is
faithful by accident or design is a question that
might be debated for eight years without any
definite result. I have a story that leaves the
question wide open. When the elder Stavely
was lost from his home in the Omeo (Vic.) dis-
trict, he left behind him a collie dog called
Pontius Pilate. Nobody was half so much con-
cerned about the missing prospector as Pontius
was. He accompanied the search parties that
went in quest of IStavely, and was the most in-
dustrious hunter of the lot. When the lost man’s
relations and friends ceased the widespread in-
quiry, Pilate, the dog, maintained the hunt on
his own. People in the district say he assumed a
perplexed and worried expression. He was a
canine point of interrogation, and looked into the
faces of strangers with an air of urgent inquiry.
He grew to be rather an old dog without
losing interest in his work, and people who came
upon him deep in the bush, or far out in the hills,
nosing among the bracken and dead timber,
ceased to feel any concern about his fidelity.
Then came the wet, wild night when P. Pilate,
soaked, muddy, lame and blood-stained, trotted
into Millett’s bar, and dropped something large
and round on the floor at Tom Stavely’s feet.
Tom picked up that object. It was a human
skull. Tom insists the skull is that of his long-lost
father, but there is no proof. When he and the
other drinkers went after the dog with the idea
of getting him to lead them to the skeleton’s com-
plete outfit, they found him dead under the bar-
room floor with a stolen ham-bone in his mouth.
* * * *
“ J.G.,” on rabbits :
It’s all very well for “James Pannikin ” to blow about
the money earned by rabbit trappers. Granted that
some trappers earn good money, they deserve every
copper they get. Note the daily routine. The trapper
starts out soon after noon with 60 or 70 traps on his
back, and travels anywhere up to 10 miles to find spots
to set his snares. Every yard he goes the load seems to
get heavier, until it weighs many tons. At last the
broken-backed hunter gets to some likely spot; so he
scrapes out bits of the globe to make room for the traps,
and sets a few. Then he goes on to other likely places
until he has planted his devices over a space of two or three
miles. Towards the tail end of the tedious game he gets
anxious to finish, and then, in his hurry, he probably
gets his fingers caught a few times, and the atmosphere
begins to turn blue with the flow of language. At last
he has all his traps set, and tramps back home. By this
time there isn’t much of the afternoon left. Soon after
tea he goes round his traps. This job will very likely
keep him going till midnight or after. Probably half the
traps have sprung without anything being near them.
Perhaps a fox or two has been the round before
the trapper and has taken the rabbits. Perhaps
a fox or two gets caught in the traps and
pulls them up and drags them a way, and causes the amazed
speculator to spend two or three hours looking for the
missing ironmongery. All sorts of animals get caught in
rabbit traps—foxes, dogs of all sizes, sheep, cattle, horses,
bandicoots, cats of all species, and if reports are true, the
Tantanoola tiger and the Missing Link. They all play
Old Harry with the goods. But supposing tbe'trappi ri's
in hick and a good proportion of rabbits are arrested
during the first round. These have to be taken out,
killed and cleaned, and the traps re-set. Then the
load of rabbits has to be humped to the camp,
or home, as the case may be. The dog-tired
bunn.v-seeker next snatches a few hours’ sleep until 3
or 4 a.m. Then he gets up, and once more goes the
weary round of the traps. By the time this job is fin-
ished a bit of breakfast is about due, and after that the
rabbits have to be packed in the cart and taken to the
railway station. If the station is handy, well and good ;
but if it is anywhere up to ‘2O miles, the rest of the day is
spent in travelling to and fro, and when the artisan gets
back it is time to go and make a packborse of himself
and set the traps on still another round. Of course, it
would be much easier for the trapper if he could go
round with a cart when setting traps, but if he did the
average squatter would have him run in for trespassing.
As it is, he plies his calling on the land magnate’s pro-
perty with fear and trembling, expecting every minute
to be ordered off and urged to bolt to Gehenna. If
“Jimmie Pannikin” tried rabbiting he would find he
had struck a strenuous, sleepless job.
* * * *■
“Vigilans”: There is a misconception
about tlie saurian of North Australia. The ma-
jority of people call these reptiles alligators.
This is wrong from a naturalist’s point of view,
although the resemblance between a crocodile,
cayman and alligator is very striking. The dif-
ference is in the snout (long in the crocodile) and
the teeth ; likewise the crocodile lives longer and
grows longer than the’gator. The amphibian of
the North Australian coast is an estuarine croco-
dile. These animals are habitants of India, North
Australia, the Solomon Islands and Fiji. They
are usually found in the tidal portions of the
rivers, from which they descend to the sea. In
point of size they probably surpass all other
species, one specimen being recorded which
reached the enormous length of 33ft. Alligators
are represented by one species from North
America; by a second from the Yang-tse-Kiang,
in China ; and by a third and imperfectly known
sample of which the habitat is as yet un-
determined. Alligators have a short and
broad snout. Crocodiles are great cowards on
land. A croc, of 16ft. will lie in the water with
only its snout protruding. Thus it watches for
an animal to come to drink. I have fished for
hours on the high banks of the rivers of the Terri-
tory and the Norman (N.Q. ), all the time watched
by these monsters. Once they take a hold they
never let go again. They have the tenacity of a
bulldog. They are hard to kill. The vital spot
is under the left arm or in the eye. A bullet has
no effect on the hide, the scales of which are
immensely thick. They are very prolific; in a
season one will lay 60 or 70 eggs. These are, of
course, hatched by the heat of the sun. If it
were not that the males eat them and vultures
prey upon the young, the rivers of the North
would be more than alive with them. Of all
smells I think dead crocodile takes the biscuit.
Also the animal has a breath like a sewer.
Crocodiles live to a great age. In North Queens-
land I have seen them toothless and covered with
barnacles. They are sluggish and hideous. Their
bodies are supported on short limbs, and carried
close to the ground. The tail is long and most
powerful. The toes are more or less webbed.
Each limb is provided with five toes in front and
four behind, the three innermost in each foot
being furnished with claws. These animals are
further characterised by the fact that their nos-
trils open at the extremity of the snout, and their
ears are covered with movable lids. In Kimber-
ley and the Northern Territory we have fresh-
water crocodiles. These are found in creeks and
billabongs. They are harmless, although I have
seen them six feet long. In the dry season this
species buries itself in the mud and becomes dor-
mant, like a forgotten Act of Parliament.
A SHADOWY HOPE.
DEADBEAT : “ Can yer
spare us a feed, kind
lady ? I gotler pro-
mise o’ work in tiew."
MISSUS: "'Here you are. What work hare you
a promise of ? ”
DEADBEAT: "I'm to are first chance as a
stoker on the first Dreadnought built in Australia
“ San Remo ” : Re that Darling Downs
farmer and his cure for the prickly pear
(B. 9/6/’10): Rolling it down with a heavy roller
may be all right for the common or garden variety
of pear—the kind that will eat out of the boot, so
to speak—but the farmer would have to use a
steam roller or an electric devil to deal with the
hundreds of square miles of the gigantic curse out
Gayandah (Q.) way. It grows 20ft. high—2oft.
of solid blasphemy, as strong as a gum-tree and as
dense as a Tory. Closer settlement is the only
cure for the vegetable hedgehog.
* * * *
“Vecfcis”: If anyone after reading
“F.H.R.” (B. 16/G/TO) on the therapeutic uses of
kerosene should be tempted to try it internally,
let him refrain. Kerosene is a poison, variable in
its action, but on the whole not unlike opium.
As a rule, it causes immediate vomiting, which
may save the victim ; this explains why huge
doses have not proved fatal. On matters aiedical
Billjim is an untrustworthy witness, as I have
good reason to know. Kerosene has some anti-
septic power, but it is so irritating that it does
far more harm than good when applied to raw
surfaces. I wish “ F.H.R.’’ could look at a baby
with eczema that I saw only last week. The
mother, advised by a fool neighbor, had put kero-
sene on it. If no one had been looking I. would
have poured kerosene over that neighbor and
seated her firmly on the fire.
* * * #
There isn’t much Australian nigger left,
but what there is apparently provides a strenuous
job for the Church. By way of evidence, con-
sider the following remarks from a pamphlet issued
recently by the Melbourne Church Missionary
Association. (The information was supplied by
somebody stationed at the Roper River Mission,
in the N. Territory,):—
Men seem to choose very young lubras. Girls at the
age of six or seven years are married. We have several
such living with us. I don’t understand the custom, but
I heard one night such a piteous crying in the camp that
I made inquiries in the morning, and was told that a little
girl, about six years, was taken up by her father whilst
asleep, and carried over to her intended husband and
left with him. When she woke up and saw where she
was she got frightened, and cried to be taken back
to her parents. As they did not want to do that she set
up this awful crying which I heard, and i t last her
parents took her back, and up to the present she has re-
mained with them. Another case I witnessed was a girl
wife being torn from her mother and carried bodily to
her husband, and taken out into the bush with him.
Such events should call for much prayer for these
poor little girls. The reason is obvious. The men are
getting old, so a.re their first lubras, so they want some
young blood to catch their kai-kai and work for them.
A man can have as many wives as he chooses, and the
more he has the easier (in one respect) he lives ; but
when the wives fight then his lot is not too easy, and
often serious fights happen between them.
Much prayer ! Certainly !
“Cross Nibs”: I was utilising a section
of my mundane span upon Bagawool Station at
the time. An abo., entitled “Sombre Billy,”
interrupted sunlight upon the surroundings by
his shadow about the same period. William
worried the brewery upon the slightest provoca-
tion. In his honorary capacity of mail boy lie
encountered the moisture establishment three
times per week. McPullem, president of the
pump, hung a glad grip upon the intoxicant
elevator when Billo was coin-lined; but shooed
lavishly when that worthy appeared unbrassed.
The case against William was overwhelming.
He had worked all his wiles in pursuit of booze
goods, from snatching sundry bottles of yeast in
the kitchen to rigging a parched sponge in an
obscured bottle. One evening during shearing
time came the grand finale. ’Twas Saturday,
and the brunette’s brother was two hours overdue.
The boss was seriously considering the advisability
of despatching a rouseabout for investigation pur-
poses, when, Willie Binghi, dishevelled and wild-
eyed. clattered up to the homestead. “By Cri’,
boss,” he gabbled, “ I bin think itlcatchem close
up two plurry year. I bin go ’n’ breakem up
thara beer-pheller’s license. Longa time now
gibbit Billy plurry water.” Interrogation respect-
ing the absence of the mail bag was disregarded
by the complainant, and he retired to the men’s
quarters disconsolate. A little later Titus, a
well-known carrier, galloped into the limelight
conveying the delayed correspondence. His reci-
tative was distributed thusly : “Billy wuz all
right whin he left the post office, and if he’d lit
out then ’e wud ’ave bin a law-abidin’ citizen.
No, the cullered calamity must bounce inter th’
Rabbit and Corkscrew et ev'ry shout. ’E scored
pretty often, ’n’ got flashin’ around like fireworks.
Wanted to shove Mac inter a barrel and do post-
man’s work on the brew pump f’r all comers.
Pullem spilt a couple of handfuls ov cruelty over
his dial, V tossed ’im through th’ pannelled openin’.
Th’ bibulous blot then run ’ot. ’E reaped in a bagful
ov rock frum a fireplace near the killin’ pen, V
’umped it round t’ th’ front. We wuz just
spreadin’ our whiskers round another bubblin’
downpour when in bumps some road repair. A
piece cz big ez yer boot lobbed onter Winkin’
Jimmy’s jaw and scattered his syrup all over th’
shop an’ left him looking down th’ water bottle.
Outside y’r cud ’ear’em slammin’inter th’ sign
board like a shower uv ’ailstones. We stalled
our sev’ral blocks till we got th’ orfice from Mac,
who wuz screwin’ th’ scen’ry through a knot hole
in ther wall. Ez ther larst rock done its trip we
busted out in ther breeze. We wuz mud. Th’
nigger wuz mounted ’n’ speedin’ like a cloud in a
’urricane down th’ ’ome stretch. Th’ letter bag
wuz lyin’ on th’ verandah, so I thought I wud
shove it along. Pullem sez ’e ll be out ter see yer
about the signboard to-morrer. Picture busted
to ribbons. Couple of quid ’ll square the stone-
storm, I reckon. Well, ta ta,” and Titus had
begun the return journey.
THE BLESSED CURFEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Women’s Political Association last night discussed
the question of establishing a curfew hell. Senator
Henry Dobson spoke, by invitation, expressing himself
in favor of the idea.— Argus.
Ding 1
Dung!
Curfew bell !
There’s a story I could tell 1
Dong 1
Bang !
Biff the chime !
Curfew’s wanted, every time.
Bing !
Ding !
Sound the knell !
Fresh-air courting isn’t right
Underneath the electric light—
Let us shove it out of sight!
Ding!
Dong !
Curfew bell 1
Curfew oughter ring to-night!
Clang !
Blang !
Curfew bell I
Was she pushed ? Or p’r’aps she fell ?
Ping!
Dong !
Ring some more !
Chase her home and slam the door !
Dong !
Ding !
Let us shove
Claribel into her shell 1
Hear the curfew-clamor swell !
Clarrie’s shunted? It is well !
Ring
Long !
Too much love !
Brothers, bang the curfew bell !
Ding!
Dong !
Curfew bell !
For the gay young damosel!
Clank 1
Blank!
Pull the rope !
Let us help the world to mope I
Oh-h-h !
Ah-h-h !
Raise a yell
For some sort of curfew gong-!
Hunt the moonlight-loving throng !
And the girls who linger long I
Ding !
Dong !
Curfew bell 1
Let us have it, good and strong !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


DO you really use the best
boot polish, or do you only
think you do? Just to
make sure on this point, pur-
chase a tin of Cherry Blossom
Boot Polish, and see for your-
self how much superior it is to
any other on the market. It
gives a beautiful, lasting- shine,
quickly and easily, protects the
leather, and adds life to your
footwear. If vour local store
does not stock Cherry Blossom,
will you please tell us so, and we will see that you are
supplied. Managing Agents fnr Australia—
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
g
Ringworms Cured.
*' My little girl had ringworms for two months
on her face and head,” writes Mrs. C. L. Gilder,
18 Addison Road, Marrickville, N.S.W. ‘‘l was
recommended to use Rexona, which cured them
entirely in tt few days.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
DIAMONDS REDUCED ENORMOUSLY.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings, Pendants and
Jewellery generally at prices never before attempted in Australia.
WHY? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that
calls for an enormous output, and we have to
live up to it; and so, to increase our already large output,
we are offering all diamond goods at merely a commission
on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of
customers.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
3 Choice Diamonds in
18ct. setting, £5/5/-
5 Choice White Dia-
monds, in 18ct. carved
setting:, £5/6/-
These Rinjfs are the
most wonderful value
we have ever seen.
23 Hunter Street.
“ Bob ’Em”: This is the sort of thing
that I, a hard -work big tradesman in a Darling
River township, have to put up with :
deer butcher, wen yer boy korld this niornin for me
ordr i stinkly tovvld im ter bring rump stake witch e sed
e wood now wen i ordr rump stake i natcherlee want
rump stake no.t sold lether necks time i deel orf yer ile
get me meet orf the uther butcher, if you arskd yer
groacr four a lode of wood end he cent yer a £ of sos-
cidgers wood u tike it.
* * * *
“ Caber” : Being on intimate terms with
the prickly swear, I rise to say definitely that
nothing on this earth will remove it but the
plough—and it’s got to be ploughed in at least
three times before its nefarious career comes to
an end. With 20,000 square miles of it rooted in
Queensland, the Kidston Government is up
against the ugliest snag it has met. Fire and
poison have been tried unavailingly, and now
somebody thinks he can find a fungus to eat it
out. Mark me, the prickly swear will get that
fungus down and pull its face off within three
months. I can make a statutory declaration that
the coulter and the mould-board are the only
weapons of destruction the pear needs to fear,
and even they have to be sooled at it before it has
grown out of its infancy. As for putting the
infernal thing to any commercial use—well, the
fruit makes a fairly good bush ink. I’ve known
the pear for 30 years, and that’s all I ever could
find out to its advantage.
* * * *
“ The Mussel ” : Roughness in football is
a prominent subject at present. This reminds me
of a little incident of about a 3 r ear ago. We
were surveying on the Victorian side of Pin-
naroo—on the border of S. Australia. The
Pinnaroo footh ill team were the cham-
pions of the district: and they re*
quired our scalps. Our survey
c imp could not muster a full
t»m— so we recruited from
the boring party. There
were four of them ; all
decent, respectable mar-
r ed men—except Peter.
Peter was decent and
repeatable, but he
wasn’t married. Peter
drove the engine that
worked the bore. He
was a huge heavy than,
and spoke English by
strenuous exertioh'. On
a plain in front Of the
camp the match took
place. The rneVf of the
camp won. Thdy simply
squelched their oppon-
ents. Under ordinary
conditions they would
have been arrested for
assault and battery.
Most of the time the
Pinnaroo men were in
the air—chucked up.
When they weren’t in
the air they were
stamped into the
ground. Peter was left
out of the match be-
cause it was thought it
would be too rough for him.
Peter’s remark, after the
match was over, was: “I
tink I could ha ! killed two of
dem.”
“Tas.B. Mania ” (from Way Out Wes-
tralia) : “ Johanna,” in the Melbourne Letter, re-
cently asked : “Do feminine creatures ever mourn
nakedly?” Certainly; I’ve seen ’em. On the
four days set aside by the blacks out this way to
mourn Ed. VJl.’s death. I met the Pendinnie
tribe in the Altogether. Remonstrated with four
of the gins I knew—Polly, Monkey, Sugar-gum
and Trilby—and received an explanation. They
were on their way to Edjudina, and as they had
only colored skirts and blouses, and no dark cloth-
stuff was procurable, they decided that their
skins was as near the right thing as they could
get. So the girls let it go at that. I didn’t
blame them.
WITH AH EYE
TO THE
MORTGAGE.
THE OLD MAN : Now, look 'e 'ere, Bill, what you've got to
do is to marry money !"
BILL (convinced); “My oath, yairs!"
“Pick”: I will venture the price of this
par. that out back, or in front, no part of the
Australian wilds can out-do the hail-fellow-well-
met open-heartedness of the Monaro Bluenoses.
In that bracing region geniality extends through
all grades, from the squatter at his head station
to the splitter in his bark gunyah, and the
stranger, not excepting the professional sun-
dovvner when he is reasonably sane, is more likely
to receive an invitation to rest for a day or two
than a peremptory direction to make for the outer
boundary gate. The Monaro housewife makes it
a rule to swing the kettle the moment an ap-
proaching caller appears in the distance, and she
A DESPERADO.
MAGISTRATE: “Did the prisoner offer any re-
sistance ? ”
POLICE OFFICER: “ Only five bob, y' Wurship !”
regards it as an insult to be asked for a drink of
water while there is an ounce of tea left in the
caddy. James Pint may have his Outback for
me. I have wandered among the sheds of the
Darling, but the good-fellowship of the Monaro
folk, with their honest roughness, their absence of
clique or set, and their pride in their healthy,
chubby children, appeals to me with greater
force than does the languid loss-of-interest in life
that is apparent amongst the dust-dry inhabitants
of the Never Never land.
“Jimmie Pannikin ” : Here, in the Yass-
Gundagai (N.S.W.) district, tiie sheep are dying
broadcast. How different from the Olive Downs
country, which is away up in the corner of Out-
back, north of Tibooburra. It is covered with
well-headed Mitchell grass, annual saltbush and
the “ Real Mackay ” saltbush, spinach, boxtail,
etc. The station paddocks look more like wheat-
fields than sheep country. The sheep are gorged
to repletion. So fat are they that a staff of men
is employed riding round the paddocks to set
jumbucks on their feet. This operation is neces-
sary because these abnormally fat animals are
unable to recover themselves when they roll over
on their backs during camping time at night.
When IS this Cinderella country going to be
made easily accessible to the stockmen of the
Central Division and the coast? It is probably
the best sheep country in the world, free from
foot-rot, worm disease, lung complaints, etc.
Millions of acres of splendid feed must go to
waste this year because the long-promised light
railwavs are not in existence.
**-*..*
“ Dux ” sends a tear-stained letter from
Maori land :
I have done a good deed ! Yes, I’ve saved a man’s life,
lie told me so himself, and I can believe him quite easily.
Travelled with a parson and a red-faced cop (on holiday)
up the “ dry ” King Country last week. Arrived at Oha-
kune—or something resembling it. We put up at the
most likely-looking boarding-house—a dilapidated two-
storeyed barn, which looked as if the first good blow off
ltuapehu would topple it right over. Washed the stains
of travel off our persons, and lounged round, waiting
for tea-time. The parson casually remarked that
it was dry. The cop chewed his cracked lips
and voted it damned dry. Then, like the serpent
who urged Eve to sample the fruit of the bottle-tree in
Eden I tempted them. Would a whisky go well ?
“Eh what?” said the parson.
“ It would ?” said the cop.
Would they come up to my room and have a taste on
the quiet?
“ With pleasure,” said the parson.
“ You bet,” said the cop.
Up the creaking stairs, along the winding corridors
and into my dismal apartment crept three dry men—the
parson, the cop and myself.
Whisky ! It was under the bed. In my bag. There !
Now for it! I struggled with the catch. The parson
tugged at the leather flap. The cop reached for the
dusty glass on the rickety washstand. Tug. It’s open !
Where’s the bottle ?
Under the shirts—No !
Under my pyjamas— No !
Under my third best suit—NO !
The parson was trembling with suppressed excitement.
The cop wiped the glass carefully.
But where the deuce was the whisky? I tossed the
clothes, books, boots and hairbrushes from side to side,
till I laid bare the leather of the bag.
The bottle was gone !
“Gone 1” said the parson in sepulchral tones.
“Gone !” echoed the cop dismally.
I pitched everything out on the bed and hastily
searched the mass. I found only a strange writing.
“ Read what it says,” chattered the parson.
“ A light!” gasped the cop.
A light was found, and we read the following :
“ Dear Mate.—Thanks awfully for bringing this whisky
into the King Country. I hope you’ll excuse me taking
it. It will save my life, for sure. Everything is as dry
as H-ll up here. You’re a life-saver,‘Mate. Thanks.
Yours truly, Tommy Blank."
“The scoundrel ! ” wailed the parson.
“ Hell an’ hounds,” shouted the cop.
“ Well, I’m d d,” 1 said.
Next time I strike this land of thieves I’m going to
carry my liquor in a hot-water-bag.
THE GUIDE FALLS, TASMANIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Deep amid cool shadowed gullies, hid in depths of ever-
green,
Sparkling back to leagues of sky the shining leaf arcades
between,
Flow'er and fern in fretted tangle rioting in sylvan sheen.
All day long the tattered torrents echo through a maze
of hills ;
All day long the crests of foam rush down upon a maze
of rills ;
All day long a lost wind the green world with murmur-
ing music fills
All the night a frost of starlight sparkles backwards
from the deeps,
Where a rainbow, moonbeam-woven, an aerial bridgeway
keeps
Wavering ’mid floating foam-bells, while the scented
scrubland sleeps.
When the purples changed to opal in the cloud-streaked
roof out east,
And the birds awoke to matins ere the waning starlight
ceased,
Low and long the waters called me while the golden
light increased.
There a quiet splendor brooded, when the sunset blazed
out west,
And the tender light was paling from the misty range’s
crest;
For the dawning hour was glorious, but the twilight hour
was best.
That is as it was—but now the blackened tree trunks
blindly stare.
Where is all the sylvan splendor, all the cool green bush
world—where?
Gone, though still the lonely water flings its crown of
spray in air.
They found it in the old days with its glory and its
charm,
And they burned off Eden’s garden bowers to make a
dairy farm.
And they graze their cows in Paradise, nor think it any
harm.
TASMANIA.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) loillbe taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
S.S. (South Brisbane): Verses uneven and
rather dull Leo Essex (Q.): It is the most breathless
story received for years past. Look at the way it bolts
off : “ ‘ Tony will always be a good boy,’ exclaimed his
mother as she sat on a canvas chair on the front verandah
listening to the rain falling on the galvanised-iron roof
of her four-roomed cottage in one of the back lanes of a
Southern Queensland town ; and as she strongly main-
tained that the estimate given by the tinsmith for the
necessary spouting and small tank —which would give
her relief of the weight of several heavy buckets of water
daily—was nothing short of extortion, and decided to
place both bath tubs, kerosene tins, oil drums, etc., along
the front of tlie verandah ; and as the water gently trickled
down, and as the vessels began to fill, Mrs. Van Harten
decided to begin her usual monthly washing the follow-
ing morning.” And then your pen, having rushed for
the monthly washing like a demented tub artist, fell
down in a fit from over-exhaustion. Get in a keg of full
stops and start again H. D. Avis(M.L.): Very dull
indeed... .The Parson : Dtouglit verses promising ; will
look at them again. Others rather uneven
V.B. (Bondi): Humor does not consist of using
14 words where one would be ample. Twelve
lead n foolscap pages dropped into the basket....
R.T. W.: Sorry, verses quite hopeless.... W.W.R. (Melb.):
Sea poem breezy enough, but a bit lumpy W.F.F.
(Sydney): It is very tender and beautiful, but we defy
you to make sense of it J. Rudd (V.) : Away with you !
... Emu (V.): Crude, commonplace verse W.F.A. :
Poems about such things as vestments and Eucharistic
garments should be wildly hilarious.... W.L.C. : “The
Last Survey” is a vigorous chant, but the axe-marks are
still on it. It looks as if it had been written in a hurry.
.. ..F. H. : “The Port Cup”—on nine pages of foolscap—is
deadly dull. You are the third foolscapper we’ve met
this morning whose stuff is a weariness of the eyes ; and
we are beginning to be suspicious of long tombstone-like
slabs of MS.. ..Furore : You say you couldn’t vouch for
the originality of your contribution. Neither could your
greatgrandfather Wangatooka : You say, “Evidently
the 255. arrangement has some good points about it.”
Well, evidently the people of Australia don’t agree
with you.. ..E.E.S. (Japan): Story of Japanese soldier
who wept over his saki to hand; confirms
our view that the sympathy of beers and tears
is world-wide. Forwarded to Canon Boyce
Shunter : Will take your word for it that the British
Board of Trade didn’t offer a £lO,OOO prize for an auto-
matic railway carriage or truck coupler. You are a very
lengthy person Yarrum : If you really ate four young
kookaburras you are liable to the law for it. If David
Christie Murray joined with you in any such orgie he
ought to be ashamed of himself H.: Gags old or ob-
vious. The only one that had a show (that which referred
to the horrible possibility of Australia’s Commissioner
having to be carried out in a faint from the King’s
memorial service, instead of the light-weight Hull Jones)
was belated G.: Suggestions are mere puns, and not
the best sort either... Dorothy T. : Thanks, but they
didn’t hit us hard enough Webster: All the in-
formation you require is to be found in the
State and Federal Statistical publications. Don’t know
b >st books on the Canadian Banking System
E.F. J. (Prahran): Send your address, and we will send
you the name of a firm that will supply all the dugong
lard or oil you require.... Chatter : Story about your pa
and Jacky is unsuitable. As a writer, you strike us as
immature ...L. W. Gill: These ways of measuring
depths are all hollow vanity, particularly the one about
the dropping of “ a fairly heavy stone ” over a precipice.
How heavy is “a fairly’heavy stone”?....H.P.: It read
like an interesting “Poverty Point” par, if only the
names had been so written that we could tell whether
the name of the tenor was Brown or Blanky Billy Lin-
coln : Been four day's looking through records and curs-
ing. Can’t give you the information Hainault:
Church-school performances, however creditable, don’t
interest Bulletin readers a durn. Now, if the show you
write about had been sensationally discreditable
Wang': All ghosts are not clad in white. The one that
walks in Tun Bulletin office is clad in brown. And the
people here don’t faint, like you say' they do along your
way', when he walks. The only time this staff will faint
is when he doesn’t walk ...N. Mars: In that picture,
the big-little man is meant for the city man and
the small-large man is the man from the coun-
try'. Any other fool could have spotted that fact...
W.C. : The thing is a heartless, soulless fraud, and it
never cured any deaf person yet .. Lillias G. : Regret to
say (1) that the man who suicided wasn’t the man who
did the famous hanging, but his son ; (2) the suicide hap-
pened so long ago that it can’t, be passed off as news any
longer.... Brian B. : Verses below par... .G. 8.: “Roving
Song” to hand. What do you mean by'these two lines?.
I moot the world’s endeavor
And all its stormy ken.
H.B. (S.A.): Unsuitable. MS. horrible. In these
days of cheap paper, the only human brings who write
heavily' on both sides of a semi-transparent substance
are mean women with the letter-writing vice... Minerva:
The basket it i 5.... C. (Brisbane) : Ramchunder is an un-
desirable alien, and a dull one to b00t... Arcad.v : There
is some pathos in the last four lines. That, is the best we
can say.... E. Leneitz (Q.): Large consignment of murky
verse received and condemned. Sample herewith :
what is .von fiery' orb that lig-hts the sky
Looking like some strange symbol there on high
It is a ball of fiery' matter bright
Speeding to chaos heedless of the night
Or some high form of fier.v hissing gass
untamed by’ time fast atlering in the mass
Has it a tail ? or but a flashing stream
of spreading light to haunt us in our dream
There oft is danger when we think thers not
well may we micropic units mumur what?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Mattinson : In each case it is only a matter of one
person looking at another and making a bad joke. And
one of the jokes is old as well as bad....S. Mcl. (Ch.
Ch.): The picture has good points, but the joke is as old
as Freetrade J.E.N.: Try to get away from the two
slouchv figures., Try three figures. Putin a background
or a dog or a cat or a cow. And put some action into
the figures... .Miss McDonald: We have never gone in
for publishing fashion plates... .Spot: Drop that old
George Washington epigram down to the bottom of t he Pit
that hasn’t got any... .Arthur D. : Don’t know whether
your nigger or your white man looks more like a
monkey’.... J. Lynch :Isit a perfectly' new style of art;
or have we been drinking? W. Green: Man with
tree on his chin instead of whiskers declined
Bobs : Your picture won’t bob up in this paper... .Jessie
H. : A rather purposeless sketch. The joke about boots
is a mystery.... W.O.H. : Your sketch of Premier
Verran is lamentably unlike him. And why does he
have wheels instead of feet? iE.V.: There are five
human beings, one dog and one cat in your picture. The
cat is really a ’possum, and the dog is a devil. Three of
the human beings are supposed to be children, but are
really freaks, barring the one that is a horror. The two
grown-ups are absurdly out of drawing, and the remark
one is making to the other is as dreary as a logarithm.


A FISCAL TRUCER’S SCHEME.
Tariff relaxa ti on i s of t en more urg ently needed in a country than tariff stringency. Indeed, the tendency in other parts of the world is to modify the cffect of high tariffs by means of reciprocity
trearies.The Unite d Sta tes has recently found it neceśary to lower the Prorective wall raised against Canada, and a reciprocal reduction of duties is as essential a part of German policy as their Pro-
tective incidence. Thus the Tariff Board is wanted, not as an instrument for raising duties, but as a body expert in facts, placing clearly , early, etc., etc.-Melbourne ARGUS.
THE FOREION=TRADERS' FRIEND: "Seein' as 'ow this gentleman's thrown menny uv them 'orrid things away an' is ready to do it again-why don'tcher
do th' same thing with 'im?"
THE LOCAL YOUTH: “ No, thank you, mum. He can afford to be generous, but I can’t.”


THE SINNERS. THE SAINTS.
A STUDY IN CONTRASTS.
L ONDDN June 20-In full view of the congregation of the Baptist Church at Williamsburg, Kentucky (U.S.A.), a murderous struggle took place in the pulpit yesterday. When the contest
culmi[?] pastor, the Rev Mr Vanover was carried down the steps with his throat cut. Later in the day he died. The deceased’s relatives are said to have made the t[?] that they will kill
Dr. Perry unless he is ’sentenced to be hanged for murder. Both Dr. Perry and his cousin assert that in the struggle Pastor Vanover was the first to draw a knife.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Refuse
Low-priced
Substitutes.
rs*
Look for this Name
and Trade Mark.
DIXON'S
neool>
Extract of Fruits and Herbs.
A DELICIOUS DRINK FOR MAN, WOMAN & CHILD.
Public Warning.
Be on your guard when
you ask for “0.T.,” as
some unscrupulous traders
attempt to pass off low-
priced substitutes.
Lots of folks who’re very simple
Would call a doctor to cure a pimple,
And faddy folk say “ Daren’t eat tripe
For fear I’d have a touch of gripe.”
A tiny cold will cause them terror,
And in curing- this they make no error :
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure they get.
There’s sense in faddy people yet.*
BEAUTY OF FORM FOR THE OBESE.
A Classic Recipe All Stout People Should
Know.
“ Beauty is only skin deep,” is an ancient
dictum. It would be truer to say that “ beauty is
fat deep” in many cases; for when the body is
overladen with masses of subcutaneous fat there
can be neither beauty of form nor that much more
precious possession—the radiant beauty of perfect
health. Men and women who have cause to
lament the loss of a symmetrical shape through
obesity will find the following mixture a true
remedy which has been amazingly beneficial in
thousands of cases Take one ounce fluid Extract
of Glycyrrhiza B.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine
B.P., one half-ounce of Marmola, and mix with
Peppermint Water to make six ounces in all.
Any chemist will supply you with the ingredients
or make up the preparation while you wait. The
dose is two teaspoonfuls after each meal. This
simple and harmless treatment interferes in no
way with one’s rational mode of living, and the
rapid loss of vveight that takes place is accom-
panied by an increased appetite and improved
digestive powers. The whole system is re-stimu-
lated and strengthened, and proper muscular
development restored, the blood being enriched
and purified.*
The delight of Angelina when the ring is placed
on her finger by the first and only Adolphus is equalled
only by that of the happy housewife who has been pre-
sented with a Perfection Oil Heater. In this ornamental
friend she recognises the immediate bestower of a genial
summer climate in midwinter in whatever part of the
house it is wanted. Also the dispenser of an atmosphere
of peace and goodwill throughout the household. For
it helps make life easy by abolishing the labor of lighting
fires and cleaning after them. It cannot smell—an
automatic contrivance autocratically prevents it. “It
could not be better named,” declares the joyous house-
wife; “it is indeed Perfection.”*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Verran Government (S.A.) has a
pretty sense of the fitness of things. Tt has
appointed a new Inspeetor of Fish, and his name
is Stanks.
“Vic.”: When George Jenkins was ap-
pointed Parliamentary Clerk in Melbourne, the
joke was that lie would never do at all
—a shrivelled-up, meagre, thin-as-a-lath little
chap. But officialdom gently snows down
upon you. It is poured over a man like
the oil that ran down Aaron’s chin-
furnishings. Jenkins “swelled wisibly,”
like the lady who absorbed 13 cups of
tea at Stiggins’s meeting of the Brick
Lane branch of the Ebenezer. A
similar Aaronic oil is poured over an
Australian who settles in London. Hen-
niker Heaton will be remembered as a
dry Cornstalk. What a change even
when he first returned from London.
The oil was poured over his hat, face,
clothes and new corporation. Then
Graham Berry. When the Age called
him “ a run-down dingo,” he looked like
one. Six years of London transformed
him into the bank-managerial type. He
bought a silver service of plate to en-
tertain with. His widow clung to the
plate as long as possible. Recently
it was auctioned.
“One Bottle Bill” (from Lon-
don) : When a king dies his “last
words ” are made a feature of the
proceedings. Edward VII. was no
exception, and when all his final re-
marks have been published in book
form they will fill some volumes. The
best one I’ve seen so far was printed
in the Sporting Times (14/5/’10) thus-
wise : “We have it on authority that
does not admit of question that the last
words spoken by King Edward VII.
were ‘I am glad to hear it! ’ This
was op being informed of the victory
of Witch of the Air. A faint smile
came over his face, and he spoke no
more.” Witch of the Air was one of
*. L L> 1 J _ I • l n
the Royal prads which galloped past the judge’s
box a winner just as his owner was going up the
straight neck and neck with Death.
In S.A. it had almost come to be an
accepted fact that every Ministry should include
Laurence O’Loughlin. He put up a record for
fusing with Premiers—this is it in tabular form :
Laurence O’Loughlin in Office
Under Kingston.. 28th Sept., 1896, to Ist Dec. 1899
„ Holder .. Bth Dec., 1899, to 15th May’ ]90l"
„ Jenkins.. 15th May, 1901, to 31st Mar., 1901
„ Price .. 26th July, 1905, to sth June, 1909!
». Peake .. sth June, 1909, to June, 1910.
Ihus it will be seen that, barring one gap of a
week in Sudden Solomon’s time and a regrettable
hiatus of three years, Laurence O’Loughlin held a
portfolio for 14 years. And when, at a recent
election meeting, that dreadful person described
by the reporters as “ A Voice ” asked him what
office he would hold if the Labor men came into
power, the audience was struck dumb. It sud-
denly realised that a new Pharaoh was arising
who knew not Larry. D
Some July birthdays : Ex-Senator John
Downer, 66 on the sth; Iceberg Irvine, 52, and Dr.
Rentoul, 64 on the 6th ; Percy Grainger, 28 on the
Bth ; the Adelaide Advertiser, 52 on the 12th :
ex-Senator Trenwith, 63 on the 16th ; Crown
Solicitor Dashwood (S.A.), 67 on the 17th ; Naval
Director Creswell, 58 on the 20th; “Smiler”
Hales, 50 on the 21st; Age leader-writer Ben
Hoare, 68 on the 22nd ; Bishop Dawes, 67, and
Vic. Railways Commissioner Tait, 46 on the 24th ;
Judge Gordon (S.A.), 60 on the 26th; Senator
Vardon, 67 on the 27th ; Randolph Bedford, 42
on the 28th ; ex-Mayor James Graham (Sydney),
52, and ex-Speaker Carty Salmon, 49 on the 29th.
Professor David, Dean of the Faculty of
Science and Professor of Geology at Sydney
University, has been made a C.M.G., and all his
friends can hope is that it was done when he
wasn’t looking. David is one of the bright stars in
the scientific sky, and on the annual Commemora-
tion Exhibition in Sydney he is distinguished by his
old, worn, common B.A. gown amidst thescarlet
and ermine robes of professors who shine more and
know less. David’s labors in the scientific
field would fill a library, and he reckons he hasn’t
got into his stride yet. His coral investigations,
when he headed an expedition to the island of
Funafuti, in the South Seas, were as enlightening
as his famous map of the Maitland coal fields was
useful. He has been the divining rod of the coal
seams of N.S.W. Four or five years ago he
hustled into Mexico and showed the Greasers
where to look for the gold and other valuable
minerals that the Spaniards hadn’t comman-
deered. One of his most interesting dis-
coveries was that the east coast of Australia is
gradually sinking;so the present “Liberal” Minis-
try, if it is still hanging on to its job 100,000 years
hence, may be drowned in its own office.
“ The Galleryite ” gives a reference :
It was 10 times a pity that the scrap between Chief-
Secretary Wood and Arthur Griffith in the N.S.W. Assem-
bly last week was stopped. Both have the reputation of
being able to mix it a bit, and for some considerable time
past have been seeking a workable excuse. Wood has
been particularly anxious. Before he joined the
Ministry he created so much racket in and
out of the “ Liberal ” party that he was looked
upon as the coming strong man. Many people,
whose only excuse is that they didn’t know Wood,
reckoned that he would be Premier when Wade (another
alleged political heavyweight) dropped the job for the
Supreme Court or private life -all this, of course, before
the “Liberal” ship began to sink by the bows. But
since he jumped into the Cabinet it has been discovered
that, Fighting Bill is a political bluff. Instead of being a
tower of strength to Wade, as his barrackers anticipated,
he has apparently done nothing to justify his existence ;
unless it has been to make Wade’s political existence
more hazardous—which is, of course, a public
service and cheap at the salary paid to Wood.
Nobody ever beard the Chief Secretary make a telling
speech when Wade was in trouble ; nobody ever saw him
advancing a big piece of legislation ; nobody ever burst
out of the press gallery to announce that he had detected
signs of statesmanship in Bill. Bill just went on doing
nothing worth while every day, and sticking to his one
stunt every night. With his hands dug into his trousers
pockets he’d lean forward from the front Government
benches, saying, “Yah, pig’s trotters!” or remarks of
similar color, to any hon. gent that looked his way, until
half the hon. gents were in a state of frenzy on the floor
or cooling themselves off by pouring beer down their
necks in the refreshment room. Wood has been a bad
advertisement for Wade’s Government all through the
piece, and if Griffith had woodened Wood the fellow who
paid for the congratulatory drinks would probably have
been the Premier.
CHURCH MILITANT.
A Kentucky Baptist minister, who was under suspen-
sion. attempted to re-enter his pulpit, and, in a struggle
with his substitute, had his throat cut and died.
UP-TO-DATE PARSON: “Dearly beloved brethren,
before announcing my text, is there anyone
looking for trouble ? "
There are all sorts in the new South Aus-
tralian Ministry. For instance, Premier Verran
is a Methody lay preacher with a great desire to
shut up hotels and abolish horse racing ; Denny
his Attorney-General, is a Catholic and a racing
club official; and Keg Blundell (Whip) is the
sponsor of the Half-Crown Totalisator Bill.
“ J.A.8.” : When John Robertson visited
the Bega (N.S.W.) country in the ’seventies he
received a tremendously cordial reception,
being banqueted
and feted every-
where, and in
return hedisplayed
a humor which the
people thereabouts
have failed to ap-
preciate. At a
banquet at Bega,
one night, John
promised, in an-
swer to requisi-
tions, petitions,
etc., to do some-
thing “for this
great town and
district,” his voice
being partly
drowned in tumul-
tuous cheering and
the strains of
“He’s a Jolly
Good Fellow.”
Soon after John’s
return to Sydney
a notice appeared
in the Govern-
ment Gazette set-
ting apart an area
of 182 acres at
Bega, to be used
as a lunatic asylum
reserve.
“Croo Karm”:
Some men achieve
greatness, others
have houses called
after them. At
Fitzroy (Vic.) the
other day I saw
three cottages
alongside the local
cricket ground
nam e d respec-
tively, “Arm-
strong,” “Bards-
ley ” and “Hans-
ford.” Before the
Federal elections
my house was
named “Cook”
after the naviga-
tor, but I’ve had to take the sign down since.
The wharf-lumpers mistook the allusion and used
to expectorate over the gate.
The Melbourne morgue lately admitted a
corpse which is alleged to have had connections in
“Who’s Who” and “Debrett.” Archibald
Talbot was the name of the deceased, and he was
supposed to be related to the Earl of Shrewsbury,
who is head of the proud Talbot family of Staf-
fordshire, England. Apparently, however, Archi-
bald did not benefit from his presumed relation-
ship, nor from a vaguely suggested friendship
with the late King. When an overdose of poison
chased him over the border he was found to
possess little besides a few debts and his 50 years.
The old Maoriland democrats are one by
one being doped with a title. The latest to go is
Bill Hall-Jones, the ex-Timaru carpenter, who
has just been decorated with the Order of the
Suspender or some such foolery. Yet, time was
when Jones would have passed the Suspender
holding his nose. His fall is the more remark-
able in view of the great hit he made during the
visit of George V. (then Duke of York) to
Wellington (M.L.). Jones was a Minis-
ter in Seddon’s Government at the time,
and occupied a suite of rooms in the
Hotel Cecil, which suite, unbeknownst to him,
was included in the part of the pub set aside
by Seddon for the Duke’s retinue, or push. The
news was broken to Jones when he found half his
pots and pans out in the passage and heard sounds
of his bed being torn down. Whereupon Jones
seized a camp oven, chased the marauders out of
his rooms and pursued them for seven miles.
Seddon appealed to his lieutenant not to make
“a scene,” and finally ordered him to get out;
but Jones waved his frying-pan and spoke
defiance. Meanwhile, the noise of the shindy
had attracted the entire population, and
the air was rent with cheers for Jones. The up-
shot was that the arrangements for York’s con-
venience had to be altered to suit Jones’
convenience. It was the last stand made by
Democracy in M.L. And never will Jones
shine so brilliantly in St. James’ Palace with the
Order of the Suspender on his chest as he did on
the top landing of a Wellington pub brandishing
a gridiron in defence of his goods and chattels.
Dr. Wollaston, permanent boss of the
Australian Customs, is due to abdicate his posi-
tion on July 17. He has genuinely adorned the
service for 47 years, and has been the brain of the
Customs since the birth of Federation. Probably
no Australian knows more than he about tariff
matters. A knighthood threatens him on retire-
ment, and at his age he can't dodge with the
agility of former years.
THE BETTER PART OF VALOR.
THE PUPIL : “ It's a bull , and he's coming right
at us ! What shall ice do ? ”
T HE MASTER : "Well, don't stand there doing
nothing. Come and help me to climb this
tree! ”
“ W.” drops into reminiscence :
Death of- Robert Kyffin Thomas reminds me that
Time’s up to its usual objectionable tricks. When I
joitied the Adelaide Register staff —in ’B4, I think it was
—J. Harvey Finlayson, Charles Day (“Pay Day” they
called him, because he handed out the spondulix) and
Robert were the proprietors. Finlayson—still, happily*
in the land of the living—was editor of the paper, and
generally boss of the concern. Charles Day and now Robert
Thomas have gone the way of all flesh. In the editorial
room were “Finny” (the aforesaid Finlayson), Medway
Day, George Sutherland and another. Medway and
George are now running the Celestial Annual, which
appears when it likes, and doesn’t appear on other occa-
sions ; and the subscribers willingly pay the editors
princely salaries in either case. W. J. Sowden (now
editor and part proprietor of the paper) was chief of the
staff, and doing ever so much other work than he’s
dofie since. One of the sub-editors was Robert
Thomson, now a Presbyterian minister somewhere, and
the other was E. J. Clark, who blossomed into the pro-
prietorship of a country paper, and didn’t make as big a
success of the job as everybody hoped. Then there was
Wilson, the general manager—as fine a man and as good-
souled as you’d find between here and the North Pole.
Also, there was Cooper—Lindsay Cooper, the foreman of
the composing-room. He had been on the Register
since it started cumbering the earth. It was a
treat to listen to dear old Cooper when he came
down—as he did faithfully five mornings or so a week —
to remonstrate with whoever was editing, for keeping
proofs back and “painting” them. We used to go to
press late in those days, but even then there was always
some delay ; and Cooper would descend to the alleged
sanctum of the editor and inquire how, in the name of
crimson this and ensanguined that, the ruddy paper was
ever going to catch the cursory mail ? And nobody,took
any notice of him, and the paper “went to bed ” all
right. And now most of the engineers I’ve named have
gone to bed, too—but the engine itself is going strong.
THE STRICKEN LOYALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Discussing the question as to how the King failed
where people believe his mother would have succeeded
the article proceeded to say that his late Majesty was
deficient in “ high political imagination,” that he did not
surround himself with wise friends, that he lacked the
store of rich experience possessed by his mother, and
that he had, “ in short, neither the strong character, the
firm, resolute determination, nor the keen interest in
political men and political measures which would have
added to the influence always appertaining to the Throne
the immense, undefinable weight of a commanding per-
sonality.” That a review of such a high standing as the
Contemporary could allow a contributor to discuss the
King with that offensive freedom and indecorum which
is all very natural and proper in Mr. Keir Hardie or in
the extreme Socialist press was generally considered to
he as incomprehensible as it was shocking.—The
Dominion ( Wellington, M.L.)
Shocked ! My word, my word, I was,
To think that that great magazine
Should be the mouthpiece and the screen
Of one who wrote down Rex, because
His mother was a better man,
And seized at opportunity,
And sought by importunity,
To rule the Empire on a plan
Such as King Edward couldn’t grip—
For that was what the ruffian said ;
Or, briefer still : “ Our Monarch Ed.
Just strolls around and lets things rip.”
Incomprehensible’s the word—
Offensive, too. “God Save the King”
Is what I say. How dare this thing
Crawl into type, and turn to curd
Our veneration for the Throne;
Our deep affection for the Crown—
Into my boots my heart sinks down
Shocked ? Shocked it is ! I grieve and groan.
Down in the dust I lay my face—
Shamed. Those foul words so basely hissed
Forth by some low-down Socialist
Lower the dignity of Race . . .
Ours be the gladsome task to sing
Praise of the Royal house—the gift
From Him to whom our voices lift
Morning and night—God Save the King!
N.S.W.
GIDEON.
THE HURRIED PREMIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is much work that he (Mr. Wade) intends to
submit to the House, and he has a most profound objec-
tion to anything in the nature of wasting time—S. M.
Herald.
“There’s a cloud upon the sky-line,” said the Premier,
Make haste!
We are on the verge of ruin, and there isn’t time to
waste,
Ere the fleeting life-breath leaves us
Let us make one last big splash.
Throw wide the country’s coffers, let us fling around the
cash.
“There’ll be trouble in the future,” said the Premier.
“ Come quick !
For before the new year’s dawning we’ll be feeling
mighty sick.
We have made some lovely blunders,
And we’ve got some .more to make.
We must be up and doing for our dying country’s sake.
“ There’s a rusty storm approaching,” said the Premier.
“ Buck up !
Let us drink the joys of office ; let us raise the festive
cup.
In the shades of Opposition
We’ll have tons of time to waste ;
But while we hold the cash-box, oh, my breth-e-ren,
make haste ! ”
N.S.W.
R.


r
L
m
w
m
\ .
3?E
#
9
H
'* ''
’
1
§m
**
sa?
-
>
v
/
)ISJ
:
n
R
-3
II
>j
r-
US
&■■?•'
./ A ‘-T ~ ’
JB&ki <xr>
ALL AVIATORS SMOKE
Vice-Regal” Tobacco Cigarettes
The Famous Brand of W. D. H. O Wills.


Influenza at Toowoomba.
“My little girl was ill with influenza for over
two weeks,” writes Mrs. M. Rawlins, Neil Street,
Toowoomba. “Nothing gave her any relief until
we tried Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, which
cured her at once. It also cured the other
children of coughs and colds.” Price Is. 6d.
and 3s.*
duunjn^v.
The Old Blend.
Whisky
DIRECT PROM DISTILLER B.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE MELLOW;
MATURED SCOTCH MALI*
Wrote Mary Ann Eliza to the Slushton Advertiser,
“ M.v story I am writing- kindly print,
I’m a fully-grown adult and I’m well as the result
Of using Woods’ Great Cure—you gave the hint.
I’d a horrible bad chest, which was painful at the best,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure you said would put it
right.
I used it, cured my cold, and my story now is told,
Yours truly, Mary Ann Eliza Bright.”
Teddy Roosevelt, having been made the
victim of hero worship on his return to the
U-S-A., will find some difficulty in meeting the
prodigious demand on his popularity thus in-
curred. But by judicious appeals to D.C.L.
wisdom he may even live up to the reputation
thus inflicted upon him. Many a worried
potentate has’ survived worse tribulations by
relying on the inspiring support of D.0.L., the
Whisky of The Wise.*
9
WEAR, PALE
DEBILITATED.
♦
Deficient Blood Supply Causes
General Breakdown.
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills Brought
Renewed Health to a New
South Wales Woman.
The feeling of general weakness, poor appetite,
lack of breath after the slightest exercise, • and
broken sleep are some of the symptoms ot general
debility. It is a condition calling for immediate
treatment. You may think that the various
symptoms have no relation to each other, and
that you will worry along, hoping all the time to
feel better soon. This is a mistake. Every one
of the symptoms are caused by the blood become-
ing thin and watery, and there is a constant ten-
dency to this condition in this climate.
The blood supply must lie replenished with
new, good blood before health will be restored.
As a blood-maker Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have
made a name —that’s what they are for. Mrs. C.
J. Manning, 43 Burlinson Street, Ultimo, Sydney,
tells how Dr. Williams’Pink Pills built up her
health, as follows
“ I have a good constitution, but I worked very
hard and got terribly run down. I went to the
doctor and he said I must lay up, but this was out
of the question. I could not eat, and only fancied
a cup of tea. If I did swallow a little food I’d
feel sick. I’d also have a dull ache between the
shoulder blades. My eyesight would grow dim,
and wavering black specks dance before me. If I
was sewing I’d have to drop it. I had sick head-
aches for hours. I got very thin and my face was
the color of saffron. I’d sleep poorly and wake
with a dreadful pain at the back of the head. I
was low spirited and out of sorts for more than a
year, when Mrs. Hardwick, of Surry Hills, told
me to try Dr. Williams’Pink Pills. I got some
at Pattinson’s, and when I had finished the second
box, I began to fancy a little light food, and soon
I could sit down to the table and get through a
fair meal. I began to feel brighter in every way,
and before the third box was finished, the head-
aches lessened. The last box saw me filling out
and my color improving, and I could sleep well at
night. Five boxes cured me and I have remained
well ever since.”
When you ask for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
don’t be put off with anything else. Go where
you can get the genuine with Dr. Williams’ name
on. the outside wrapper : it’s the .genuine that
cures. Price 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d.;
to be had of storekeepers and chemists, or sent
direct by the Dr. Williams Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia, Ltd., Sydney.*
This Elastic Truss
fdsg
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort,male of
the best materials, and gives
the required, pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENVER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Mblboorne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE CLUBMANS REVERIE.
There has recently been formed in Sydney a
Club for the male descendants of the early pioneers
of Australasia.
Wade’s Railway Department is apparently
following in his footsteps. Last week a bullock
was found dead in a cattle truck at Katoomba,
and the porters took it out and bumped it down
by the track. Later on the dead bullock spoke
convincingly, and the Mayor agreed with the
animal that it was time for burial. As the railway
people made no sign, the Mayor ordered the deed
to be done, and sent the bill to the Railw’ay Com-
missioners, who have, however, declined to pay.
All the same, if the Katoomba Council goes to
law the haughty officials will have to part up, un-
less, on appeal to the High Court or the Privy
Council or some such expensive tribunal, the
Department, aided by three solicitors and eight
barristers, gets off on a technicality.
S. E. Lees, the defeated candidate for
East Sydney, put his election expenses down at
£96 Os. 4d. Did that include all the refreshments
which his women supporters distributed ?
In addition to the Royal Commission on
decentralisation, the N.S.W. Government now
proposes to appoint a Commish to consider the
management of the hospital vote. Wade has
already appointed two Royal Commissions. One
was re the McMyler hoist; the other about the
Saturday half-holiday. The hoist was damned by
the Commission, but Wade’s Railway Depart-
ment is still using it and is going to erect a
second one. The Saturday half-holiday was also
damned, and Wade is adopting the idea. So
what good are Royal Commissions?
u X.” writes :
Alfred Deakin’s exclamations at the Harper “ sympathy ”
meeting in Melbourne, hough mostly froth and bubble,
amounted more to a justification of Attorney-General D.
Brown than anything else. Observe some quotes:
“Somewhere there should be vested even an excess of
power, in order that wrong may be righted”; “those
who buy perjury are worse than those who sell it”;
“ every man may need vindication ” ; “ if they had been
guilty, it would have been accepted as a test of our
moral standing in the eyes of the world.” All which re-
marks point to one conclusion—that the strong suspicion
of conspiracy and bought perjury needed more examina-
tion than that of a police-court magistrate ; and think-
ing' thus, Brown sent all the characters in the
drama before a Supreme Court Judge. Robert Harper
has been declared innocent. Then why does he now
complain? The whole case smelt horribly ; inquiry had
to be pushed into its murky depths. In the circum-
stances, it is absurd for the foolish old man to play the
martyr.
When the Australian Parliament meets it
might do worse than appoint one or two swift
legal men (assisted bv detectives, bloodhounds
and black trackers) as a Commission to inquire
into the statements so freely made in Sydney
about personation at the recent election.
Especially no effort should be spared to find that
“Annandale Liberal” who wrote in the S. M.
Herald (9/6/T0) that he had heard “a gentleman
of large interests in the city ” boast publicly that
he (the gentleman of large interests) bad caused
400 dead men to vote. The S. M. Herald
people, of course, can find the “Annandale
Liberal,” and when he is found he will, doubtless,
be prepared to identify the wealthy person who
took 400 corpses to the poll. Large capitalists
who do that sort of thing in the Fused interest
ought to be earnestly looked up.
“The Old Soldier” on the new Naval Ex-
pert :
Australia’s opera-bouffe High Commissioner has dis-
tinguished himself by engaging an old-age pensioner as
Naval Expert to advise the Commonwealth. Admiral
Henderson went on the retired list last December, since
when the Admiralty has omitted to employ him in any
capacity because it thinks him too old. And what does
Australia expect of him? According to the S. M.
H hr ai,d :
“To report on the question of selecting naval bases*
sites for naval schools, and other questions of naval
defence. These will include gunnery and torpedo
schools, the location, number and situation of naval
depfits of various kinds, dockyards, and works of that
character.”
The Commonwealth has just let two experts at least as
good as Henderson slip through its fingers in Admirals
Rawson and Bedford, while Admiral Bosanquetis still in
the country. Any one of these men, having some know-
ledge of the country, would be in a much better
position to report intelligently than a total
stranger. Besides, an ordinary, sea-going naval officer,
whatever may have been his experience, is not
competent to report on most of the subjects named.
Admiral Henderson has been superintendent of two
British dockyards, but he did not choose either of the
sites, and one of the dockyards (Sheerness) is not a dock-
yard in any proper sense of the word, but merely a
casual repairing station like Garden Island. It was the
repairing station for the fleet at the Nore, which is abol-
ished now. Sites for naval stations and dockyards
should be chosen, not by admirals, but by engineers, who
have to prepare the plans for the works, to estimate their
cost, and, finally, to find the means to protect them
from attack. It was probably an admiral who chose the
present deplorable site of Portsmouth Dockyard. The
great increase in the range and power of artillery has
made it necessary to so extend the defensive works
around that lamentable place, in order to secure it from
bombardment, that their circumference is now no less
i han 64'miles. The whole system would require more than
100,000 soldiers to hold it if attacked, and Britain hasn’t
100,000 soldiers to spare.
The Australian Government is preparing
plans for a legislative skyscraper to be erected
during the coming session. Among the sky-
scrapes are Bills relating to land-
tax, Government note issue,
tariff amendment, navigation,
bankruptcy, agricultural bureau,
Norfolk Island and the Northern
Territory, Defence Act amend-
ment, finance (subsidy to States),
referendum re New Protection,
Arbitration Act amendment (pre-
ference to unionists, etc.), also
State debts transfer and limita-
tion of public borrowing. The
specifications omit one impera-
tive girder that may be tem-
porarily christened the Seat of
Government Referendum Bill.
Possibly it has been excluded
out of respect for the feelings of Hughes, Mahon
and Hall of Werriwa. Respect for the feelings
of Hughes, Mahon and Hall of Werriwa
threatens to become a national disaster.
“Trotter”: The Chinese Emperor lias
convoked a National Assembly for October 3.
There will be no elections. Mr. Boss Chow will
nominate 94 members from all the superior ranks
of society. Their business will be to draw up a
scheme for Parliamentary Government, with a
Senate on the model of the British House of
Lords, and a Legislative Assembly more on the
plan of the Russian Duma than anything else. The
franchise will be very limited, perhaps a million
or two of voters for about 500 members. All this
is to be done in a very leisurely way ; but it is of
immense significance any way.
Mrs. Hume-Lindsay, a British Women’s
Emigration League agent who lately chaperoned
a hatch of domestic “ helps ” to Maoriland, ex-
plains why the girls had left home and mother ;
I think the idea at the back of every girl’s mind is to
marry in the colonies. They, come generally from a class
which has only to look forward to marrying an English
workman who will earn 255. to 30s. weekly for about half
the year and be out of employment for the rest of the 12
months. . . . Men are leaving England in thousands, for
there is no work at home.
In short, the British Mary Ann has reached the
sensible conclusion that a country which renders
any sort of a husband problematical, and which,
even if it does supply a husband of sorts, only
supplies an average of 15s. a week or so along
with him, is no place for a healthy young woman
to linger in.
Defence Minister Pearce has already ob-
literated one detail of Kitchener’s defence scheme
—the one that restricted attendance at the Mili-
tary -College to students whose parents could
afford to pay 80 guineas a year, and to a small
proportion of scholarship holders. Pearce has
ukased that all students are to be scholarship
holders, and there is to be no 80 guineas a year.'
AN ABSURD OFFER.
Premier Wade proposes to raise N.S.W. police pay by
Gd. [?]er day. The force bad expected Is.
POLICEMAN: “ No, mister, were bobbies, not
tanners. ”
A recent law squabble in Sydney con-
cerned a small and dreary matter of freight
between the charterers and agents of the steamer
Stratbfillan. This Strathfillan was hired to run a
cargo of coal from Japan to Sydney during the
strike; and the coal was sold to the N.S.W.
Government. The case reminds that the Wade
Ministry has not yet published a balance-sheet
showing the results of its efforts to break the
miners by importing Asiatic fuel. The official
departments are still using the worthless stuff-
such of them as can be bullied into it. The real
history of the coal-importing dodge won’t bo
known until a new Premier comes in and begins
to overhaul the old documents.
Wade’s followers are having bad luck with
their charges against the N.S.W. Labor party.
The week before last it was Fitzpatrick. Last
week the wild sensation was Henley, who specific-
ally accused certain secretaries of trades unions
of blackmailing employers by threatening to bring
actions against them under the industrial laws.
He apparently implied that the secretaries put
the proceeds of the blackmailing system into their
own pockets. Henley’s righteous indignation
was tremendous and his attitude was superior.
Also he scoffed something enormous. Then it all
boiled down to tins : In certain cases a union had
taken proceedings against an employer for breach
of an industrial award. The employer explained
that the matter was a mere error ; be put things
right, and he paid the union’s law Costs,
and the union decided that his intentions
were good and withdrew the case in a
friendly spirit. The union made no profit
out of the matter and the secretary didn’t
make a copper. It was a shocking down-
fall for Henley, and he hadn’t even the grace to
apologise.
A THIN DEVICE.
The outstanding feature of the unoccupied Far North
is that we have no visible and outward signs of posses-
sion. It is practically an unknown land so far as the
bulk of Australians is concerned. My idea is that we
could link it up in a preliminary way with civilisation by
establishing three or four telegraph stations. By that
means we could at least keep in touch with things.'-. . .
These telegraph stations I speak of would be our out-
ward signs of possession.— A recent traveller discoursing
to a Sydney paper.
And it might just happen that the telegraph lines
would not keep us in touch with things.
The Queensland squatter on leased coun-
try gets little chance of renewals in these days of
settlement. No less than 37 holdings, aggregat-
ing 2085 square miles, fall in at the end of the
present year, and the Government proposes to
cut them all up and give smaller men a show.
A recent Federal capital item :
Yass. —The outlook for the winter continues gloomy,
owners being already at their wits’ end to find fodder for
their sheep. Most of them are hand-feeding , their
sheep, lopping off the green boughs from the
willow and currajong trees for that purpose. Stock are
commencing to fall away rapidly, and big losses are
feared as the winter progresses. Rain has kept off with
tiie utmost persistency, although threatening repeatedly
during the past couple of weeks. The stock routes are
bare of grass and destitute of water; but very few sheep
are travelling at present, the stock being too poor and
weak to travel.
“ Geofred ” : Re N.S.W. Premier Wade’s
recent confession that he believes in a Wages
Board for Clerks ! I, a clerk, was one jof a
deputation, headed by Carmichael, M.L. A.,
which asked that the men of our craft
should be included in'the schedule of the
Industrial Disputes Act. Wade did not
then go so far as to even promise to bring
the matter before the Cabinet, but coldly
informed us “that clerks were too well
looked after to need a Board.” Harold
Mercer (secretary of the Clerks’ Union)
he referred to scornfully as “an altogether
insignificant young person.” And jnoyv
Wade’s civility to the meanest of cledis is
amazing, and by all the omens a M ages
Board is to be handed them immediately if
not sooner. Wonderful bow a little thing! like
an election will change the views of the coldest
of Premiers.
The belated agitation against brick-making
combines is a reminder of the fact that the late
Bent once bought a piece of land in Melbourne
for the Government, with the alleged intention
of starting a State brickfield. Nothing canje of
Bent’s demonstration. In a long list of things
that Bent threatened to do and didn’t, the brick-
making scheme was the soonest forgotten, and
the one that he didn’t most enthusiastically:
Every now and then the Melbourne Age
is driven to report a big new find of water along
the route of the proposed Port Augusta-Kalgoor-
lie line, and the amusing cuss in charge always
heads it “ Desert Railway.” As a matter of fact,
there seems to be abundance of water everywhere
at very moderate depths both along the route to
Kalgoorlie and along the straight line from Port
Augusta to Port Darwin. All manner of people
have perished from thirst in the past along these
and similar tracks, but then explorers and pros-
pectors and such-like didn’t carry several tons of
boring apparatus along with them. Therein lies
all the difference.
LET IT BE KNOWN - !
The widest publicity should be given to the
fact that summer diarrhoea and, dysentery can be
cured by the judicious use of Chamberlain’s Oolic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy., It never fails.
When reduced with water and sweetened jit is
pleasant to take, which is important when the
medicine must be given to small children.* ,
IN MELBOURNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a John go by to-day
Upon his solitary beat,
Strolling along his fearless way
With large black boots upon his feet,
I saw a John go by, last year,
On this same round ; and he, as well,
Wore number tens, and km .v no fear
At all, so far as I could tell.
They lost their fowls, next door, last night;
Their poor old dorg was dead to-day ;
And in the sunshine, warm and bright,
John Hop goes on his fearless way.
Last week the Smiths across the road
Lost, half their wefekly wash, or more,
Through petty thieves, who boldly stowed
Their plunder in a bag they bore.
Door-mats in quantities have gone
To buy the casual caller beer ;
And scarce John Hop goes by upon
His long, long round, and knows no fear.
Last month a burglar boned the best
Of Brown’s new-married silverware,
And all the good spoons Jones possessed
Have gone to John Hop knows not where.
Disporting in his pasture green.
Quite recently the household hoss
Of Robinson might have been seen.
Poor Robinson, he feels his loss !
He feels his loss, and all the more
Because the nag was not enough—
The robbers called at Robbo’s door
For one hoss-load of household stuff.
To-day I saw a John go by
Upon his slow, enormous feet,
Ambition sparkling in his eye,
Seeking fowl-feathers on his beat,
Chasing the scarce, new finger-mark
For seven-an’-six a day, and fame—
And, later on, the doormat-narkl
Will call, collecting, just the same.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HEXTY.


IIM
fa,
Hi
im
mk
v*.
WI
(1111 l
lil*
1®!
(i
y
Eli
22
&
Suits
TO
MEASURE
FOR
Business
MEN.
CUT , FIT.
AND
FINISH
Guaranteed
Buckley i
MELBOURNE, S.E.
II?
sf
On Buying a Brinsmead Piano
The true lover -of music will always demand in his
piano Quality of tone,' responsiveness of touch, and ex
cellenee of material and workmanship. These latter
qualities are an important point, because they secure
durability, and the genuine pianist is as deeply attached to
his instrument as a violinist is to his violin.
The worth of a piano lies in the music which can be
extracted from it, and it is the “voice of the Brinsmead
that has first claim upon our labors. Hence the lowest-
priced Brinsmead model has the true, distinctive Brins-
mead tone. The moment a chord is struck you can tell
from its full, rich quality, by the long, true “singing note”
that it is an instrument of no common grade. Its touch is
no less delightful.
Brinsmead Pianos withstand all climates and hard
wear, and are therefore selected by the Peninsular and
Oriental Steam Navigation Co. and other principal Steam-
ship Lines for use on their vessels.
HOST riODERATE EXTENDED TERfIS ARRANGED.
OLD INSTRUMENTS TAKEN IN PART PAYMENT.
SOLE AGENTS:—
NICHOLSON 8 CO. LIMITED
342 George Street, Sydney; and at Newcastle.
FERRO VALVELESS Engine
... FOR...
i
Pumps,
Dynamos,
Cement Mixers,
Stone Crushers,
Vacuum
Cleaners,
Saw Benches,
Spray Pumps,
Separators,
Chaffcutters,
Lathes,
Drilling
Machines,
Well Boring,
Sheep Shearing,
Mining
Machines,
Printing
Presses,
Refrigerators,
Launches.
j
There are already over Eight Hundred FERRO ENGINES in usem Aus-
tralia, and for whatever purpose they have been installed they have proved a success.
The following result of a test will give some idea of their strength and reliability .
United States Navy Brake Test of a
15-H.P. FERRO ENGINE
showed 18.85 H.P. on a CONTINUOUS RUN on 30th Sept., 1909.
ALL FERRO ENGINES develop EXCESS OF RATED POWER.
MADE IN 3,4, 5)4, 7)4, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17 and 25 H.P.
THE PRICES ARE RIGHT. FOR FULL PARTICULARS write to NEAREST AGENT.
Agents—
VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, TASMANIA—
Acme Motor & feng. Co., 355 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—HaII Bros., 51=53 Druitt Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND— Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—W. Sandover & Co., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—Ayers Baker & Co., Fort Street, Auckland.
SAMOA—H. J. Moors, Apia, Samoa.
<QHhnmmiixtaJlllllJt>s*™ Dtnniir, *Eni>
An Enjoyable
Dinner.
An Enjoyable Dinner
largely depends on the
quality of the cooking!
When you partake of a
“ Sargent '' Dinner there
is a delicacy of flavor —
a delicious goodness —
that instantly reveals
the culinary skill of a
superior chef.
Sargents' Chef gives
to every dish a ** finish-
ing touch" that adds zest
to an already dainty and
appetising meal. Sar- _
gents' Dinners are excellent, and are served quickly and courteous y,
amid the pleasantest surroundings, in dining-rooms that are spacious
and appointed in the most tasteful manner. Every conceivable idea
that forethought could suggest to make dining perfect has been carried
out by Sargents' for the comfort of patrons. Moderate Tariff.
XPFf.IATTIRX • WpiUins Cakes. Pastrv. Fruit Pies and Meat Pies.
W J*
Ps:
s
3
Sargents’ Ltd
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-52 Elizabeth St. *»>.


Peter F.
*
HEERING’S
CHERRY BRANDY
distilled from the native
Copenhagen Cherry is the
Best Liqueur
Those women who go grey prematurely look
much older thart their years.
One lady who was cured of premature greyness by the
Hygeia methods, without any stain or dye, writes, after
only three months’ treatment
“My hair has greatly improved, and the grev hairs
certainly have not increased, also those I had are most
surely disappearing gradually, and the whole of mv
hair has grown a good deal. I must say I am very
pleased about it, because, as you say, it does make such
a difference in one's appearance. Please send next treat-
ment right away.”
Then a month later she writes :
“I have just finished the last parcel of preparations
and would like some more if you will kindly send some
by return mail. My hair is looking just lovely, and all
my friends are remarking on it. I have spoken to many
of them about your treatment, so no doubt vou will hear
from some of them shortly.— Faithfully yours, M. S
Tasmania.” ’’
The President may be consulted, free of charge, any day
but Saturday, between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
between 6 and 7. Those who wish to know more about
this treatment, and cannot call, may write, enclosing 3d.
stamps for booklet and many more testimonials, to” the
President, Dept. 8., Hygeia Limited, Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
D
01 \o
o
D
u
©
We chemists like good tea
as much as we disl | e taking
physic—tea’s a miid harmless
drink, that livens one up as
nothing else will—but, mind you,
there are teas and teas, with as
much difference between them
as in chalk and cheese. Of
course pure tea is the best,
and as Robur is the purest
tea 1 know, l always go for it.
Many of my friends use the
No. 2 Grade they say it is
good enough for anybody
but l must say 1 like the No. 1
Grade myself—l’m a man that
believes in the best of every-
thing for inside.
The Chemist
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN'S
LLTTLR
~ .. Sydney, June 28, 1910.
'lt Dear Arini,—
1 hese remarks reach me from London :
changes are promised in Court circles now that
Mary and George have taken over the throne and reign-
rVm,™ 00 3 '-n S I” I6 ° f tllose the know state fchac the old
nJ q a e 1 be p ' ssed out on its ear (as the girls
!.m d Par ' B Hous e), and that the changes
ill brin„ forward others more serious-minded
i “it . p F<> o seful ,°" e newspaper maintains that
o 1 improbable to the last degree that either the
what tn ° r Sl *' Thoinas Lipton will be to King George
«hat they were to his father.” Two wittv foreign
HmtreWo 1 ’ 8 ’ nlen «'ho owed their appointments less to
their cleverness as diplomats than to the fact that they
are most amusing companions, are classed as future
sentw e A J hey ai ' e Count All,e,t Mensdorff, repre-
PnrM £i A ? tr A’ ,r d l , he witt - v Mm-qnis de Several, of
Portugal. Lord larquhar, Lord Alington, Mr. Arthur
Uean® Ml 'f Wll > am Ja,nes ( the owner of West
favorite resort of the late lamented)
li£, c ' udecJ 1,1 a list of those who are not
ikMy to be members of the new set at St. Janies’.
Jiut it i» about our own sex that the tongues are most
busy, ltd ward s love for surrounding himself with
pretty women was well known, and there’s going to be a
lot of hurried baggage-packing when the new ladv starts
’'l' 6 Pa,lace ’ , In fact > jt appears that the
omPHw "' llbe , about as sudden and enveloping as the
o le Edward m ide when Ins mother gave up her earthly
orown for whatever was coming to her. J
A Government House party, consisting mostly of
1 idles—-the Governor-General was absent, insert-
ing the knife of a ceremonial opening into theMary-
borough Show visited the “Third Floor Back”
at the Criterion on Friday evening. Lady Dudley
made it her first public appearance since the
mourning set m, and then it was done in as unob-
trusive a manner as is possible to vice-regals
1 lay goers are taking “ the Passing” like a tonic
or a revival meeting. It is going to prove match-
less for the complexion, in one case at least A
Sydney girl declared the other day, “I felt such
a cat after seeing the ‘Third Floor Back’ that I
got up ana went to church iit seven next morning-
and I m going to keep it up.” As a piety pill, the
play is worth a guinea a box.
News has been received, by cable, of the
engagement of Dean Marriott, of Bathurst, under
romantic circumstances, A while ago his wife
died, and lie decided to take a voyage of recupera-
tion to England, ihe idea that he would ever
again enter the holy state of matrimony was
scouted by all who knew him. He is no chicken
in fact, he is rising 74. But shipboard life—the
surest matrimonial agent going—upset all calcu-
li S ' Within a few weeks of leaving Australia
the Dean uprose in the dining-saloon one night
and announced to the feeders assembled his
engagement to Miss Drake, a fellow-passenger.
Ihe ladv is English, and an heiress in a small
on July 2 Weddl ' lg vviU blke P lace at Winchester
A young Sydney medico bight Matthews—
recently appointed to the South Coast Hospital
-has just arranged (1) to abandon doctoring and
M, C «°« m Ti’K’ S °T> fc ? m ' ssionar y 5 (2) to marrv
Miss Eisie lain daughter of the Bishop of
Gippsland. Miss Pain, who was once a hospital
nurse is at present travelling with her gaitered
parent in Palestine. ' 6
The engagement of a wealthy Sydney widow to
a youthful member of the British aristocracy
which made such a sensation in her circle a short
tune ago, is now definitely off. The lady’s family
consisting of a grown-up son and three daughters’
tnoitly married, objected strongly; so the widow
lias started on a voyage of consolation. She is
10 Jy pursued by yet another overseas aristocrat
of sorts, in whose breast Hope has sprung like a
demented lamb on hearing the news that his
loathly rival had been definitely turned down.
Two Misses Morrison from the other side of the
world are visiting our side just now, and have
been in our city some weeks. Thev are sisters of
a well-known Fleet-streeter-George Morrison, of
, the Morning Post. The ladies are chiefly re-
markable for not being related in any way to
George Morrison, of the London Times. This
fact is stated with emphasis, as the ladies want
| themselves disentangled.
.1 8 2 ei ® ty engagements have pleasantly
! thrilled Sydney within the week. Miss Le
I atourel is booked to marry Dr. Blackburn, and
Miss Gwynneth Griffiths will become Mrs. Henrv
Baker, of the 17.8. Consulate. Vera Le Patourel
is one of the belles of our city, and has figured
; ; )ften as bridesmaid at swell weddings and in
fancy dress carnivals and balls and rinkings. Her
father was an A.D.C. of some prehistoric Gov-
ernor of this State, and her mother, who was a
. belle and looks it now. has charge of Society on
behalf of the S.M.H. Gwynneth Griffiths isaPoint
Pi peri te, daughter of the late F. Griffiths, well
known at the Union Club and A. J.C. On his death
the daughters pluckily turned up their cuffs and
worked for a little extra butter on their crusts for
they were left plenty for bread. Mrs. Griffiths is a
sister of Mrs. Edward Knox, also of Mrs
Gunther, also aunt of Mrs. Jas. Ashton and of the
lady who used to, be Daisy Willis. That is Miss
Griffiths family roster. It is to be hoped that the
Intended can display some aristocrats from
Knickerbocker circles in old New York to keep up
his end of the log. The Knox connection takes
some living up to.
Grace Watson, that vigorous political battler
passed through Sydney this week on her flight
southwards. Grace has never been quite up to
her best fighting form since the great cackle-
conference two years ago and more. That was
the time when she declared that courteous old
William Lyne had addressed a lady (she was
never produced) as plain “Smith.” Lyne has
clamored for the address of that woman at inter-
vals ever since, but I don’t fanev he got it
A visiting Dutchman who comes much to the
fore at social functions is Mr. Moans. (Say name
slowly and in two sections, and it doesn’t sound
so dolorous as it looks.) Wireless telegraphy is
the gentleman’s forte, and dancing is his foible.
At the Cinderella Floral Carnival Ball, which
came off as Well as could be expected on Thursday
evening in the Town Hall, the cotillon figure
which represented the second and third words in
the long title of the revel, was the great draw for
the gallery. Seekers after a little harmless ex-
citement waited up aloft quite a while to see the
flowers dance into the centre of the room and be
garnered up by T. H. Kelly as Father Time. It
was a Kelly festival. Although other names
appeared on the pink programmes, yet
that clever and energetic matron, who
was one of the hon. secs., was acknowledged
to be the moving spirit. Some notions of how to
quicken up the time a bit and keep it from lag-
ging, as it usually does at a fancy ball, were
borrowed from an ice-rink carnival. Tne
cotillon means a see-saw waltz movement in-
stead of a jerky march, and the figures of the
dance were prettj'. The subsequent confetti
throwing and battle of flowers were not reckless
foims of hilarity, but still a serious attempt was
made to be gay, and even jov must have a be-
ginning.
Flowers were chosen as the names of many sets,
and appropriate enough was the naming of the
peach blossom” group. The blossoms were all
of the best brand of Society peaches and cream.
Ihe names of Owen, Pockley, Piper, Parbury
Ford, Manning and Friend read like those of
some of our Very Best, don’t they? The bearers
were all a credit to their faiiiilies. “Dutch
r lower Vendors ” boasted in their ranks some tall
and slender figures; they had figured cotton
frocks and stiff lace caps, and carried yokes with
dangling flower baskets. “Poppies” and
‘ Onrysanthemums” were built of paper, and
grew ragged before the evening was over. One
dame trailed a black gown and shed spiders
about the floor. An authentic-looking Chinaman
hid from view Mr. Watson, of the Powerful
It was a complete disguise. Ethel Warwick
browned her comeliness and went as a Malav girl.
.Nobody knew her. Another mystery was Mr.
Jim Osborne as a gollywog. Mrs. John Sandes
was a handsome young Turkish party, and the
men in her set had chosen a neat but not gaudv
dress which showed up as about the most accurate
on the floor. The “ Carnival ” men and maidens
were smart. A Pierrot costume is one which any
man will adopt when other fanciful garb has no
lure for him. Miss Burdekin was Spring, in white
and innocent lily-of-the-valley green. Her col-
league was Mrs. Edwin Kyrie. Mrs. Walter
Brunton had some pretty “water lilies”
with her. Melanie Collins (the dark-eyed third
daughter of the Woollahra doctor), two Bruntoiis,
Hilda Bettington and Muriel Watson made up
the bunch of maiden lilies. Arum lilies, headed
by Mrs. Macneil Simpson, were as large as life
and twice as natural. There were many other
human vegetabiesin the throng, and the mingling
of all the floral and green stuff was animated.
A welbknown man about town had a sensation
at the Floral Carnival Ball. He was standing
solitary at the top of the room when a g rl in a
pale-pink domino and black mask rushed up
flung her arms round his neck and kissed him.’
“ Done for a bet, I suppose,” he gasped as soon
as he recovered his breath. The kisser is young,
pretty, and a member of one of the “ best ’’
families. In the ordinary course of things,
there is no reason why the’embraced one should
not rejoice at receiving the salute. But “it was
so sudden, dear.” Besides he can’t sleep for
wondering why it happened.
The football carnival on Saturday at the
Sydney Cricket Ground,-,as seen from the stands,
was mostly big hat and enthusiasm. When the
hats drifted apart occasionally, and a glimpse of
the surrounding landscape could be bad, the game
was the only thing visible. There were some
people on the ground, but they couldn’t be seen
for the crowd. As a society topic, football offers
few attractions to the feminine scribe.
When a poor little Cause looks like pegging
out from want df nourishment, a retired-
from-the-stage matron usually comes forward
and fattens-up-flhfn-small, obscure Cause with a
ball or a matinee. Then another lady comes
along and finds another deserving Cause, and per-
forms the samajidflating trick, with the same
pronounced Buee®eew-~*4’he Cause to be next
benefited will be the Bush Nursing Scheme,
and the generous niatrotj.’ who is giving time
and trouble to getting up a matinee is Mrs. J
Csborne (Maud Jeffries that used to be). She and
Julius Knight will be Pygmalion and Galatea to
each other for one occasion only on Monday next,
the day of the big fight. There was some doubt
at one time about the fight taking place, but there
is no doubt about the matinee. Seats have been
sold at fabulous prices—they are called “fabulous” 1
because everybody firmly believes that the prices
were actually paid. One energetic girl sold eight
f?r>t s a ff u * nea each in eight minutes. If
&nd Gftl&tCfi 53 won’t ruisG a, small
sum for the Bush Nursing scheme, something
must be very rotten in the state of Svdney. (The
compositor will please be very careful in setting
up this par., and not call it the Bush Cursing
scheme.)
Nurses have been waked upon the subject of
the Bush Nursing Scheme. The members of the
Council of the A.T.N.A. called Nurse Plughes
before them and solemnly questioned her as to her
credentials. Having put them wise to all her
record as a trained nurse, she enlisted the sym-
pathy and interest of that powerful body. The
journal of the A.T.N.A. (a very well-written and
interesting though rather technical periodical)
gives space to the scheme in its current issue.
The most sanguine person can hope only that the
Bush Nursing Scheme will be put upon its feet
before its originator flits away from Australia for
good and all.
• Home is an accomplished fact. It
1S ‘The king Edward Home for Dogs,”
and Professor David is going to lecture on its be-
half on Saturday evening at St. James’ Hall.
Ibis dogs hotel is the official abode for lost
canines. Miss Wardlavv Best, an energetic and
kind-hearted lady near Folly Point, had a dogs’
boarding-house in full working order for years.
She quarrelled somewhat violently with Mr. M.
Botherv, the hon. sec. of this new dogs’ mansion,
over some minor point which doesn’t matter,
and it doesn t always take.two to make a quarrel,
for the mild Rothery couldn’t quarrel with a
mosquito. He doesn’t know how to quarrel. But
that was in the long ago, and Miss Best has now
merged her animal hospital in this new ven-
ture. Miss Best owns an island in the Indian
Ocean, and wishes to go and live there (or has
gone); and if vqu had seen the pictures of her
island home and its surroundings, you’d like to go
there too. There are persons who can charm and
hypnotise animals, and Miss Best has that un-
canny power. Dogs follow her and obey her ;
they almost talk their thanks to her when she binds
up their woundsand sprains, and wouldn’tdare re-
fuse to get well after her doctoring. Their joy in
meeting her again after a prolonged absence of,
say, 30 minutes, is pathetically unhuman in its
intensity. To realise the meaning of pure adora-
tion you should see a poor, disabled cur gaze at
Miss Best after she has washed and fed the un-
pleasant little animal.
The Fresh Air League has decided to work up
a ball for its Charity Fund. Mrs. Allen Taylor,
the president, held a meeting for this intent on
1< riday morning, and that was the decision arrived
at.
A belated par about the Alliance Francaise
party on June 16. Cedric Cohen, who spoke the
foreign tongue of Rostand’s play so well, is a son
T-J. Cohen, a member of the Mouth Stadium
in Macquarie-street. Consul Fraudin, who was
played in by the Marseillaise, just to give the
show a truly Gallic flavor, was prepared to wel-
come Calve had she been present; but the singer
had not been able to accept the invitation. That
was the second occasion on which the Consul
was thwarted in his desire to give the copious
hand of welcome to his illustrious countrywoman.
It comes out now that Fraudin cabled to the
powers at Pans to know if he should hold to his
original plan of giving Calve a public reception in
the week of mourning, and the reply was “Post-
pone.” But the party will be given when next
the singer comes amongst us.
The great disadvantage of a contralto is “Abide
with Me”; but Linda Johnson, who came out
vocally an invitation concert at St. James’
Hall last Friday, will probably overcome that dis-
advantage by settling down (she is young and
good-looking) as a mezzo soprano, for her voice is
a light contralto of that devotional quality that
sounds at home in oratorio. A crowd of well-
groomed men and women applauded the young
singer, who warbled very charmingly.
The Austral String Quartet gave its second
concert on Thursday, when the wet and the
general dismalness of weather did not succeed in
keeping away a very large audience from the
Y.M.C.A. Hall. The liking for chamber music
ks growing, and the compositions played by Cvril
Monk, Gladstone Bell, TschaikoVand S. Janssen,
assisted, where first aid at the piano was required]
bv Godfrey Smith, pleased the taste of the en-
thusiasts in this branch of musical art. The prin-
cipal solo of the evening was Bach’s Chaconne for
the violin, which every. fiddler of note must
take in his career, just as if it were measles.
He is not a thoroughly inoculated violinist
until he has that difficult, but unfortunately not
quite impossible, violin piece. Only the next
door neighbors of a violinist know how much
practising goes to one perfect performance of
Bach’s Chaconne. Bach’s great aim in life was
to write his music as hard as he could, and in the
Chaconne he did the trick. Cyril Monk played
it most brilliantly, and his admirers felt justified
of all their faith in him. His tone grows better
and better every time he plays in public. Mrs.
felapoffski pleased with several songs. yhe
adopts the Calve dramatic fervor in her arias now.
For a student’s warble, the efforts of Jessie
Sheath last Tuesday evening were full of pro-
mise. In the first place, she sang in a
sweet soprano, well trained by Steffani; and
in the second, she packed the Hall of
Song with friends and admirers at some shil-
lings per head. She had also good assistance.
The clappers were mostly flappers with hair tied
m butterfly bows. It is the season of concerts
and school break-ups. Yet another musical party
to be recorded was that given by Misses Minnie
Daniel, Irene Lewis and Beatrice Pearson, at
Paling’s, on Monday.
Political exiles fleeing from Siberia and the
knout are supposed to be among us in the per-
sons of the Russian singers now appearing inter-
mittently at the Y.M.C.A. Hall. The lady is a
bright-eyed, sweet-voiced Zoe Dolinsky ; and the
man, Ossipoff by name, is obviously a Russian
scratched, for his appearance is very Calmuck.
Quite sensational was the applause l given him on
Saturday evening. He distinctly caught on. He
has a. trick of raising his left eyebrow that ought
to bring him in good money, if he were properly
boomed. He probably caught it while keeping
that eye lifting for the police in his Nihilist days.
He breaks all the rules oibclcantoin a loud, derisive
top note, but his efforts in plain and fancy devil-
ment are most engaging. As a singer of devil-
songs he is a treat. He can be diabolical in any
style, as he proved to the delight of his audience
on Saturday. He was a sneering, snarling devil
for Rubinstein, a lofty, contemptuous fiend for
Gounod, and a gloating, mocking imp in “Will
o’ the Wisp.” The audience wanted more and
more devil-songs, and the singer’s eyebrow winked
like a mad semaphore as he responded. If he
could do all this without accessories, he
would frighten a nervous person into fits
were he to appear in the limelight dressed
in the regulation get-up of Mephisto. The
ad vantage of Ossipoff is that he is a new, strange
foreign devil—a Satanovitch or Demonoffski or
Sheolopolous, not answering to any familiar name
like Deuce or Dickens. With all his faults the
Devil is not a Tartar. Ossipoff will wink his left
eyebrow again on Friday night, when the under-
signed fully intends to go and join in the devil-
worship.
Mr. and Mrs. Matheson Lang vary their scrub-
Pi in SOU J S a, ‘d linoleum as the Stranger and
the Slavey in the play of nights, by a gay social
round every day. Mrs. Phil Morton gave a
luncheon party in their honor at her house in
Koslyn Gardens on Friday. The hostess, who
has been ill for sometime, is not quite recovered
yet, but her health is much improved. Hostesses
can usually snare an actor-man as a lunch lion.
Stage folk never dine. They peck a little some-
thing about 5.30, to keep fit and lively for the
evenings work. Supper is always the meal of
the sort which actors call “square.”
Goulburn is one of the most musical of our
centres. Two rival societies—Liedertafel and
Operatic—keep things humming. Amy Murphy
went to Goulburn last week and warbled for the
Operatic body at a crowded function in the Town
nail. Afterwards supper and speeches were
handed out, with Miss M. as chief guest. She
made a speechletin return. The secretary of the
rival society was present, and went round to con-
gratulate her afterwards. In Goulburn that ranks
as a deed of magnanimity.
Like a bargain-sale was the rush for tickets of
invitation to the Dolores reception, which will be
held on Thursday in the Town Hall. The lion.
the Philharmonic, Orchestral and Lieder
tafel Societies all had a hand in the deal, but yet
there were not cards enough to go round, and
musical folk were told they could get invitations
at Palings, thence the scurry. If only they rush
the booking office in the same degree all will be
welh The first opportunity for that kind of rush
will be for Saturday night’s concert.
The Flag of the Commonwealth ” is acclaimed
m song bv Amy Juncker to words by A. L.
Pahner. This patriotic lay is published by
Paling and Co. It is in the key of F and the top
note is E, so it is fitted to be sung in schools and
places where they raise their voices in patriotic
melody.
Here is a cleverly-touched-off portrait
There was a certain disdainful woman, beautiful with-
out grace—no, not beautiful, but pretty at first sight—
v\no pursed lier lips and lowered her lashes apropos
of everything. She was an ermine, a fault-finder,
a sniffer of improprieties, the most fastidious that
was ever born. She found something to condemn
in all the eyes, the- foreheads,, the lashes, the noses
the mouths and the faces that she saw. She never
saw teeth that did not geem to her to he black, broken
or too long. According to her idea, no other woman
knew how to speak or to walk, and all were so badlv
built that their clothes wept on their backs. When
she saw a man look at a woman, she would sav
She is as God wills; she makes herself more
and more talked about. But who would ever have
believed it of him? I would have taken him for mv
confessor She blamed the women who didn’t stand at
them windows, and those who did; in short, she an-
pointed herself the living censor of all women, and all
fled from her as they would from an evil adventure.
It was written of an Italian woman by Aretino
more than 300 years ago. But doesn’t it fit dozens
of bydney women to-day ?
Yours, as of old,
CLKO.


m
BK
\
Vi.
m
£.4
fi’i
£
«<
%
sf.&i
tfl
%\
%J
&
If
P> $
i
3P4
7
M
m
[ ?s
Wl
\T <:
rt.v-
-/>
«
m
mS
/A
r/A
r
<s-
-
o
N
L
&M?
C-O-B-R-A Sfte Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Says, “H ere’s Christmas
Coming ! You
“ Must look slippy !
Don’t stand dreaming
H ave your footwear
Bright and gleaming
“H ere’s Bill Gumleaves
He knows what
Brand of polish
Beats the lot !
“ Hoiip la ! Billy !
There ! He’s through !
‘COBRA’ is the
Stuff for you 1u....l u ....


ITNDER VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE, and in the
presence of the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
"“HOSPICE ANNUAL BALL
in aid of the Hospice for the Dying, Darlinghurst,
will be held in the
Sydney Town Hall, Wednesday, 6th July, 1910.
SPECIAL GALLERY ATTRACTIONS.
President: Lady Mayoress.
Vice-Presidents: Mesdames M. Deer.v, Boesen, C. A.
Muller, G. L. Goodman, F. W. Lmgton and Barlow.
Hon. Treasurers: Mrs. A. McElhone. Mrs. P. Lealiv.
Hon. Secretaries : Mrs. J. Kearney, Mrs. J. F. H yes '
BALL TICKETS, 7/*» each. DANCING 8.30.
GALLERY TICKETS, 2/- each. Book at Nicholson’s.
DUNLOP
Comfbrtabl^^C^^^^;
a La sy \\
v * iii 'f-i®i,iJ'
:/,
">.•
ri
'• &
m
Uncouallcd,
for Quality & Wear
I To Ensure Satisfaction .You Must Use
l DUN LOPS. Obtainable Various Styled
> All Leading Boot Stores.
RUBBER
HEELS
::
DUNLOP
’MOTOR
’TYRES
can be relied upon for
Long Service and Satis-
faction. You will find
they have no equal for
Wear and Reliability.
* * *
PRICE LIST POSTED ON APPLICATION.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and Christchurch.
$0
Medical & Toilet Black & Green ticket R e i 4
—-iww .*■*.*-* orumu ana SULVPIOL SOAP.
onnrhfltfo pons: ’ the beautiful and accomplished actress, who cotnmenced her stage career in Australia
sends the following unsolicited testimonial to the manufacturers of SOLYPTOL SOAP ’
Messrs F. H PAULDING & CO. Savoy Hotel, London, W.C. July 31 1909
I havMound efv r h S °h P Gv reCentl -y brought under my notice, and you may be interested to know that
-‘t a hsolutel> the best skin soap I have ever used. It lathers most freely in the hard London water
any'otl^'r'so'aD^^nbis'^narthml^rlv leaVeS the ! kin soffc and velv ety in a manner unobtainable with
nrodnnrinn P ‘ 16 partlcularl y gratifying to me to know that Australia is the home of such a perfect
p oauction. y ours faithfully> HILDA SPONG. ,
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Mkubournk, Junk 27, 1910.
My Dkar Yarrik.—
Caulfield has at least one public-spirited citizen
who is prepared to do legal battle for his claim to
peace and quietness. Seeing that early muffin-
bells and furious “ milk-ho ! ” cries are prohibited,
this citizen and his wife issued a writ against the
parson and office-bearers of St. Paul’s Church.
The plaintive pair want an injunction to restrain
the various defendants and their man-servants
and their maid-servants and their ox and their
ass and the stranger within their gates from
“ringing the bell, or bells, in connection with
the said church so as to be a nuisance or annoy-
ance.” Also, they claim £5 damages for the
wrongs they have already suffered from bell-
clangs. The church has 12 guardians, and each
of them got a summons. Of course, there is a
good deal to be said for the sturdy citizen who
objects to being rung out of his first sleep or his
sixth nap by a bell that doesn’t appeal to his
spiritual feelings. Church bells are horribly
autocratic, and though we may admit their
claim to holiness, there’s no denying that they
often make an unaesthetic noises at hours com-
monly known as ungodly.
Bess Norris is going: to have a party to view the
First Day of her miniature show, but the minia-
tures are already on their screens in one of the
drawing-rooms at The Grand. The Carmichael
two take a keen interest in them, and are making
their visit unofficially because of the court
mourning rigidity. Tne show is to drift open on
its own, in the way such shows do, in London. It
appears to be thoroughly local—our wild demand
for an Important with a corkscrew to get into
such things.
Governor Carmichael was particularly inter-
ested in a study of Calv A-unfinished so far,
owing to the snatchiness of the sittings granted
by that volatile lady. It has got the real spirit
of her devilsome fascination and beauty. There
are two portraits of Helen Sexton—that clever
medico. One shows her wearing her professional
air—a business-like way she has of buttoning her
glove while “summing-up” a case. Mrs. Smith
lent the portrait of dead journalist Smith—
a work of Bess Norris’ done seven or
eight years ago, but full of character.
There is a portrait of the daughter of George
C. Williamson, the highest authority on minia-
ture work, who has just published that exquisite
thing, “The Studio Supplement,” full of minia-
ture reproductions. He has been an ardent
admirer of the Australian girl’s work, and helped
her in London.
Australian sheep evidently pay. All the
" I’uppall” Faulkners—those Riverina squattah
wealthy folk—are miniatured. Mrs. Faulkner,
with the two children, and gran’ma Faulkner—a
young beauty herself in spite of her title.
There is one baby that is an exquisite sketch
of a real baby “flop.” The kiddy is down on
the floor with an armful of primroses. It is like
Kipling’s George in “ An Enforced Habitation.”
There are about 40 altogether of the gems.
The artist could not bring all her precious posses-
sions. So many had gone beyond her ken. A
lot of her work has gone to ’Murka. The
Clara Butt bit was left behind—but a
photograph of the work is there. A most
characteristic thing is the portrait of Mrs. sculp-
tor Derwent-Wood. Mrs. Wood was Florence
Schmidt, of Brisbane, a singer of some note. The
miniature brings out forcibly her wonderful color-
ing—eyes that are green as sea water and mer-
maidian red hair.
The big shops are bringing off their little hops
these times, and great is the joy thereat. T’other
Wednesday night the staff of the new Don Store
chased the glowing hours with flying trilbies at
Hawthorn Town Hall. Among the 250 dancers
there were some conspicuously pretty girls, who
looked like real bargains for male customers in
need of matrimonial goods. The Mayor ancj
Mayoress lent an air of municipal dignity to the
lazy quadrille, and boss Bethune of the store,
with bis wife, smiled genial proprietary smiles
upon the shivoo.
Miss Lina Stirling, daughter of baronet Charles
Elphinstone Fleming Stirling, of Glorat—an
i iicient pile of stone at Milton-of-Campie, near
the vulgar, tail-chimneyed, boiler-making city of
Glasgow, in Scotland—is pledged to Maorilander
Harry Guthrie-Smith. of Hawke’s Bay. The
wedding is to happen in Scotland, and the pair,
on the way back to Hawke’s Bay, will smash their
journey in Melbourne and stay a while with the
Stirling cousins—the Rennies, of Holme, Toorak.
The wedding of Lassie Forbes and her Colombo
young man caused a stir in the Toorak end of
our subbubs. Struan is the dwelling of papa
Forbes, who was in earlier days a magnate in
Bendigo. The ceremony was as befrilled and
begilt as such a thing could be. Mr. Colombo
Arden, the bridegroom, almost achieved im-
portance—rather a clever thing for a
bridegroom to manage. The poor malt* crea-
ture is so handicapped with his dress, for
he must wear practically the ordinary bags
and sundries. There were five bridesmaids
following in fluffy excitement after the billowing
white externals of the chief star, and a small
Baillieu baby made a page for the upholding of
the train. The Mia Mia girls were turned on in
full force to feed the crowd. Mr. and Mrs. Arden
departed for Sydney and Brisbane. Later, they
go to their Cingalese home.
Mrs. Masseran has just appeared again after a
bitter struggle with the ’flu’. She departs for
Sydney, and will be wandering round the warmer
harbor shores next week, glad to be rid of the icy
winds of this winter city.
Excited gossips have discovered that the
elopers (in highly respectable life) have gone
to America. Mrs. Eloping-one has left baggage
behind her in the person of her two-vear-old son,
who adds to the distractions of the left-behind
husband. That the affair should have climaxed
at a most important suburban boarding-house
(paying-guestery, I should say) is unfortunate.
What could be hushed up in a hoarding-house?
The mad she-meanderer will be peacefullv happy
(“ I don’t think—l don’t think—l don’t* think,”
as Gilbert might remark) seeing that the real hu's-
band has the money, and the amateur husband
has nothing but an Hebraic nose.
Dogs, cats and chooks—that’s been the pro-
gramme at the Exhibition all last week. Women
exhibitors round up chiefly to the Ladies’ Kennel
Club ; but this year there was a large percentage
of women owners at this big annual show in the
doggie classes. Women spend a lot of time with
their dog property on the benches, and it is amusing
to see how the types of owners fit the dogs. A fine
brisk girl will be the owner of a manly Dane
or an ugly good-tempered bulldog (or “ boule-
rlogue,” as I once read in a dog-show notice in a
French newspaper). On the other hand, the
average poodle-exhibitor is as curious a class in
herself as the poodle is. The poodles are dolled
up in pink and blue ribbons, with “Pet” or
“Daisy” worked in tawdry tinsel, and cheap
colored decorations perk up the puny exhibits’
boxes. The fond mistresses who sit and knit and
watch these pampered woolly darlings could
never be associated with a large animal that
possessed big ideas. The poodle women look the
epitome of petty scandal.
I wonder, by the way, what kind of girl keeps
an elephant in countries where these animals are
to be had !
Cats are becoming a vogue. They may soon be
back at their Egyptian pedestal of worship. The
,array of blue Persians and other feline aristocrats
was startling in its variety. The Chinchillas
have the palm for dainty coloring in their delicate
fur. Pussy, at such an elevation, commands a
ridiculous price. Several women in the suburbs
are making a lucrative business of breeding Puss-
aristocrats, and Puss is becoming a mere expen-
sive ornament perched on cushions, with a
complete forgetfulness of her sphere as a mouser.
A lady pianist, Miss Marie Liebner, has arrived
in Melbourne with Berlin labels on her luggage,
and is going to give a concert anon. She is
“late of the Leipzig Con3ervatorium,” and
Faulkner Smith has the “direction” of the frau-
lein, for nobody can make a musical way into
public favor without an explicit direction nowa-
days. He issued invitation cards for an introduc-
tory Liebner recital, to be given at the Inde-
pendent Hall, last Monday as ever was. On the
next night Minnie Bull and Evelyn Ashley were
to give a song and pianoforte recital at the
Masonic. Why, O why, is winter the musical
season? One is expected, seemingly, to-look out
at the front door of the domicile at 7 p.m. on a
wet cold night, and say between chattering teeth :
“It’s raining hard. Let us go to a draughty
concert hall and shiver.”
The Victorian Professional Orchestra gave the
third concert of its existence on Thursday after-
noon, and it is proving itself a power in the musi-
cal world. There are signs that it is shaking
down into harmonious working order. There
is a fine, free spirit about this combina-
tion. Other conductors—permanent musicians
in Melbourne or visiting artists of note —
are invited to run one of the shows. But
Alberto Zelman is throwing all his enthusiasm
into the affair, and he is practically acknowledged
as conductor-in-chief. Thursday’s concert showed
musical folk that they are in for a good thing.
The audience grows in strength, and soft pur-
ring, befurred pussies of fashionable “suckles”
made a good house with the “really musical.”
One section of the “really musical” closes its
eyes in ecstasy throughout a concert like this,
and another section (the kind with long, thin
fingers and dreamy eyes) anxiously follows
massive “ scores.” It only looks up occasionally—
either with fevered elation or with the reproachful
look of a trodden-on dog, when the “tempo” is
revised or reversed.
Closed eyes show a predominance of soul, but
a budget of half a dozen soulful she’s, who leant
against each other’s seal stoles with drooped eye-
lids, made a cruel mistake in the posing. They
were in the tiered seats, and they one and all
rested their feet on the seat in front. There was
one yast line of flat broad shoe soles. The soles
and the souls didn’t match. Closing the eyes is
also dangerous at times. You may forget to open
them again, and get locked in when the premises
shut for the night,
Muriel Matters is not pointed on the right road
to help the Cause. She is obviously in the
hysterical zone—on the fringe of the Extremists.
There are many sympathetic women working
heart and soul to relieve the awful oppression of
economic laws in Great Britain. Thev are
suffragists, of course. To quote one of them,
“We must be associated with arid sympathise
with the Extremists—while we can only deplore
their methods.” Muriel Matters appears to he of
the cat-clawing class ; in fact, throughout her lec-
tures she shows real joy in drawing attention
(modest!y, as toan obvious virtue) to her aggressi ve-
ness. Miss Matters was a rnummeress first, and the
dramatic appeals to her. Her elocution is good,
so is her theatrical instinct, and the lectures have
the effect of being well rehearsed, and the
“ lines” and “ business ” carefully studied. She
is one whom the Creator evidently intended to be
pretty, and she is pretty—but the unwise woman
has developed a “suffragette” mouth. There is
a strong section line on either side of chin and
neck. It has worked loose with too much talk-
ing. Her woes and wails are too personal. There
is too much of Muriel Matters’ excited experi-
ences, and too little of the real Socialistic cause
and reason of the Women’s War.
Holloway prison, as described by Miss Matters,
isn’t up to much as a hotel. Still the costume
appears fairly good. Miss Matters puts on the
prison dress and expresses her horror of it. Yet
it is neat and comfortable looking. The apron is
large and tidy; the cap would be quite fasci-
nating if worn at a charity fair. Tucked into the
waist-belt is a large square check handkerchief,
which really looks serviceable enough. Probably
Solomon in all his glory didn’t wipe his brow at
Jerusalem with anything more convenient. A
woman prisoner ought to be proud of the way
“everything matches.” The pattern on the
apron is exactly the same arrow-shape as the
dress, and there is a small duplicate on the hand-
kerchief and cap. Just It in fashionable frocking
now—that matching of design.»
The official bath Miss Matters found cold and
uninviting, and the paint was .all peeled off the
large vessel in which an undressed prisoner is
urged to insert herself. And a prisoner has to
get up at 5.15, at which cold and godless hour she
has handed to her a pail of water, for floor-
scrubbing purposes. It isn’t good policy to get
into a British gaol in the winter time. To scrub
a cold British floor with a buckfet of cold
British fog and water in the bleak hours before
the British sun has climbed over the Bull horizon
must be a very frosty occupation. Somehow,
Miss Matters reminded me of the German convict
in “ The Man from Mexico.” “ I will not do it,”
stuttered that exasperated imprisoned gentleman ;
“I would rather leave the gaol !”
Calve at the Princess’s, with scenic effects and
an orchestra, is in her own world, even though
the programme was of the species Concert. Calve
:ind Gasparri, dressed in ordinary garb, sang con-
cert numbers from “Faust” until the interval.
After the pause came a full-blown grand opera
act —scenic and dressed, and with full orches-
tra. It was the fifth act of “Faust,”
and Calve excelled herself. Her singing
was superbly dramatic. This wonderful woman,
who can look a devil of impishness, transformed
herself into a young girl with a smooth innocence
of face and wide, round eyes of wonderment.
Fair hair hung in long, roughened plaits over her
shoulders. Gasparri sang his Faust beautifully;
but his stage make-up was rather bizarre.
Tiie black cloak, like a wispy tail that hung
over his red-tighted understandings, seemed
to trouble the gentleman. He flung it left-back,
then whisked the bothersome thing right-about.
At last he held it happily forninst his lower chest
like a waiter’s apron, and that seemed quite com-
fortable. A fair wig took the sails out of his
matinee beauty—the smooth black locks of effect
were quite covered. But he sang like a stage
angel--like one of the angels that did not
appear in the scenes. One Schmidt provided a
fine bass; but his Mephistopheles was of the
kindest sort —he was a devil with the look and
temper of a good-natured mastiff.
The orchestra was a large affair, swelling right
■out into the stalls; in fact, conductor Freddie
Beard was waving his tree over the head of Mel-
bourne’s prettiest little society matron. The
orchestra was a fine thing, as far as strings went ;
but the scramble among musicians just now hit
the brasses loose. Manager Tait was chasing a
bassoon all over Victoria earlier in the day, and
only unearthed him in Carrum swamp an hour
before the show—so the “ winds ” and brasses
sputtered a bit in excitement; but the general
effect was beautiful.
Incely the Great is dead, and the Elect mourn.
“Bulldog” Incely was the centre of that small
concentrated mart of fashion and expensiveness in
Collins-street where an idea never put its nose
out of the door without the Cheque-Writer and
Permanent Car Fare of the she who bought it
doing a double somersault of impotent rage at the
size thereof. It was not the idea that was large
—merely the cheque. The idea usually was the
sweetest duck of a thing—possibly a hat with a
magnetic Incely tag inside to keep the head
glowing. Incely was just returning from a diplo-
matic tour —an inquisition into the latest and a
bowing at the London and Parisian shrines. He
felt ill at Colombo, and his wife met the home-
coming boat at Adelaide—to find, with a horrible
shock, a dead man aboard. “Bury the great
man with great lamentation.”
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide: —
Our Admiral and Excellency set sail for Broken Hil
last week to look into the naval defence scheme. All the
Hill came to meet him in its best fancy waistcoat, and
he was carted up shafts and over every square inch of
available wild-cattery. Broken Hill’s god-parent, Delprat,
dropped his business in order that he might have time to
be kind to his Excellency, and one day he had a garden
party. Many people think that all the garden which
Broken Hill possesses is what you see flying overhead on
a dust-storm day ; but it isn’t so.
For some dark and buried reason the good people who
have been holding up their claws in horror at far more
orthodox plays, went to the Appendreena performance of
“ JohnGlayde’s Honor,” and labelled it “sweet.” Some
of the performers were guilty of good work and
others of good chiffons. One or two were even accused
of both. Wilfred Neill,, did some po.werful acting as
John Glayde ; and Maude Plunkett, as his frivolous wife,
did not rant or tear her hyaointhine locks. Ethelwyn
.Robin shed general lustre as Lady Lerode, very smartly
gowned ; and Rita Gardner’s Princess was a very ex-
quisitely chiffoned and attractive person. Dorothy
Temple was a charming, solemn little niece. The best
character sketch, however, was Reg Sabine’s work as
Michael, which hadn’t a touch of the amateur in it. A
Wald boy, as Collington, was pleasantly natural. Of
course, the thing had patches, like Henry Lawson’s
clothes when they “began to go,” but the patches weren’t
very bad.
His Excellency was lured to Port Adelaide on Thurs-
day eve by president Rohert Oruickshank and his com-
mittee of the local Institute. This Institute is one of
the most up-to-date and complete south of the line, and
was the first of its kind in Australia to found a children’s
library and reading-room. No less than 240 scholarships
are given annually among the schools of the district,
each,scholarship entitling the winning infant to a year’s
free membership of the library. The dist ribution of the
certificates is made into a ceremonial of much weight.
The Town Hall was packed to the rafters, and the’vic-
torious 240—a remarkably smart-looking set of infants—
sat in orderly rows, and were firmly spoken to by his
Ex., the Chief Secretary, and other founts of wisdom.
An interesting fact was divulged in the course of the
speeches: If you want to study any old science or ’ology
you have only to mention it to the institute, and the best
book on earth dealing with that science or ’ology will be
lent you free of charge for four months.
This world is punctuated by anxious-eyed small girls
in large hair-ribbons, for the youth and chivalry of St
Peter’s College are getting their invitation list "in curl.
An annual dance, hosted b.v the boys, is one of the
features of Peter. Each young Romeo may onlv ask one
miniature Juliet, and the grief of the Juliet who is left
is harrowing. Elderly ladies who have put up their hair
are ejected from the list of guests. There is generally a
sudden outcrop of nevvly-grown-ups the day after that
dance.
St. Peter’s boys don’t drop the hopping habit with
their schooldays. One of the gayest committee revels
organised in this village is the “ Blue-and-White ” dance
which most seasons fills the North Adelaide Institute
with a gladsome throng of girl, and is manipulated by
ex-Saints. A similar “ Blue-and-White ” gladdens the
fair maids of Broken Hill, where many old Saints are
doing battle with the drought and the slag-. Also, once
a year in every part of the globe where there are enough
ex-Saints to form a quorum, there you will hear of"a
“ Blue-and-White ” dinner.
Jack Deeney, an ex-Adelaide boy, has been back here
with the Geach co. He was intended for a medico, and'
actually grappled with the course at the’Varsity for a
while until he heard the grease-paint calling. Taking it
all round, though, the Slowly City doesn’t provide the
theatrical firmament with many planets. Otto Heggie,
Charlie Sparrow, Jean Martin and one or two more are
all the Irving and Sara Bernhardt we have raised in a
good many years.
Not a thousand years ago—in fact, long after the Dago
invasion of Britain—a moneyed, South Australian
bachelor fell a victim to the sweet smiles of a little singer
girl from a neighboring State. The maiden took her
talents to Europe, and the South Australian immedi-
ately found urgent business in Britain, where he still
lingers. Now rumor is busy with the affairs of an even
more be-sheckelled bachelor from these parts, who is said
be engaged to another young songstress—a South
Australia n one this time.
Ar ° u ma Y soeer at the size of our river Torrens, but
y°« slla fi "°t sneer at its looks. On that point we are
soll< ?‘ For some tlme P ast we have been pl a ntl n K’
gardens along-the shores of our little Nile, and making it
a heavenly circumstance. Now Mr. Barr-Smith has
handed a bag of money to the municipal fathers for the
continuance of the work, and the parish dads are doing
tbe ' r best.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANAN.


DEWAR’S
‘lmperial’
WHISKY
feM
*
,W
A MO N G the multitude of
stimulants devised and offered
for the gratification of mankind
there is none appealing with
greater success, and certainly none
possessing greater merit than
Dewar s Whisky. In all that con-
stitutes whisky perfection Dewars
Imperial’ stands pre-eminent, and
to specify this excellent brand is
but to echo the preference of the
world’s connoisseurs.
The Spirit Splendid.
359


AT A. SAUNDER
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Tourmalines or Peri-
dots,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set with
Amethyst and Pearls,
12/6.
SOLID
SILVER.
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, High
Grade, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance, 25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/,
£4/10/ £5, up. Guaranteed
Free Repair for 1, 2, and 3
Years, up.
SOLID
GOLD.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Cfircle
BROOOH, set Turquoise
and Pearls,' 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco PEGGY BAG, Chamois-
Jmed, Extra Division, Best Rivet-
ted Nickel Frame, IS/.
Other Styles, 4/6, 6/6, 6/6, 7/6,
8/6, to 32/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACELET, set with 11 Fine, Pure,
Fiery-cut Opals, Chain attached,
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar and Circle BROOCH, set
Red or Green Stone,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set with
Diamond Hearts,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set
Turquoise, Olivines, or
Rubies,
21/-
WRITE FOR A
COPY OF
OUR LARGE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
SENT, POST
FREE, ANY-
WHERE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, SO/.
Smaller Size, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Fine Tourmalines,
. £2/10/-
F,or Pierced or
Unpierced Ears.
A. Sau.NjjERS.
9ct Gold CROSS, set
Fine White Pearls
and Rubies, or
Sapphires,
17/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold
Horseshoe
SCARP PIN,
5/6.
Larger,
7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “For-
get-Me-Not”
Heart CHARM,
10/
J8S
A. SAUNDERS.
Sot Gold PEN-
DANT, Green-
stone, Petrified
Wood, or Cor-
nelian Stone,
10/6-
(tO I ft
OPEN
FACE,
20/-
A. SAUiNURRS.
Gent, ’s Nickel, Open-face, Keyless, Knock-
abjut WATCH, Non-magnetic, Patent Ad-
justed Balance, Dust and Water Proof
Cases, 20/-
Higher Grades, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
Guaranteed, to last from 20 to 25 years
Kept )n.Fr“<' PmW r for 1 Year.
A. l.. . ...AS.
9et Gold 2-Bar BliOOGH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires,
25/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-
u
„ „,, A. SAUNDERS.
9ot Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds and Rubies or Sap-
phires, Chain Attached,
£2/15/.
18ct Gold, Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2/10/.
All Diamonds, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold WEDDING
RINGS, 10/, 12/6 ;
loot Gold, 20/, 25/;
18ct Gold, 20/, 30/,
40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold KEEPERS,
12/6; I5ct Gold, 20/,
25/; 18et Gold, 22/6,
30/, 40/.
m
m,
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct.. Gold, set Two
Fine, Large, Pure
Double,-eut Diamonds,
£35
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Fine,
Pure Double-cut Dia-
monds, £15.
Smaller Diamonds,
£10, £12/10 1.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 5 Fine
Pure Double-cut Dia-
monds, £50/-
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphire, £35.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SIGNET
RING, 20/-
15ct Gold, 40/; 18ct,
Gold, 50/.
9c t Gold NECKLACE,
SAUNDERS.
Set Fine Pearls and Rubies.
Turquoise,
£3-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Rubies, Sap-
phires, Pearls,
or Opals,
£12/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
8 Diamonds and
Ruby, Sapphire,
or Black Opal,
£lO.
SILVER,
SOLID
£2
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
LEVER, f-Plate, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly
Timed and Adjusted, £2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
£4/10/, £5/10/. Solid Gold, £7/10/
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, up to £lOO.
Guaranteed Free Repair from 2 Years Up.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
!>ct Gold “Best
Wishes” LINKS,
c 20/-
15ct Go±d, 35/-
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct' Gold S!' \ RF-
PIN, set Pearls and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, 120/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield and Oval
LINKS, set Double-cut
Diamond, £3/10/, £4/10/,
£5/10/, according to size
of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
mond and Ruby or
Sapphire, 35/-
2 Diamonds, £2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set with
5 Fine Pure Double-
cut Diamonds,
£10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
I8ct Gold, set Fine,
Pure Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£8/10/.
All Diamonds,
£10 and £12/10,
According to size
of Diamonds.
WBS
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold. Diamonds,
and Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £‘Jo-
All Diamonds. £45.
SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set Fine,
Pure, Double-cut
Diamonds,
£12/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Hand-clasp
RING, 20/.
Heavier, 25/. 15ct
Gold, 40/; 18ct
Gold, 60/.
I A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pure Double
cut Diamonds, Pearls, and Rubies, or
Sapphim £8/10/.
s»
15ct Gold BROOCH,
set with Turquoise
or Olivines,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Pearls, or Rubies, or Sapphires, £6/10/.
WE SEND ALL
GOODS
(CLOCKS AND
CHINAWARE
EXCEPTED),
POST FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
£3.
For Pierced or
Unpierced Ears,
Other Styles,
12/6, 15/, 17/6,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Hall-
marked Motto
RING,
10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold
Lace PIN,
4/6
Larger, 5/6.
a
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT, set
with Fine White Pearls
and Peridots or Tourma-
line,
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pearls and
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2.
OPEN
FACE,
10/-
HIGHER
i GRADE,
A. SAUNDERS.
WAT e ™ aC l° Pen - faC f d Keyless
WATCHES, Strong- and Accurate
lnnekeepers, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/
17/6, 20/. h
a©
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set
Pearls, Ruby, and Turquoise,
or all Pearls,
. £3/10/.
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, 9ct Gold, Fancy Scroll Mount
17/6.
Lighter Mount, 15/.
Other Styles, 15/. 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACELET, set with 30 Fine, Pure, Double-
cut Diamonds,
JEWELLER,
v//
LAUNDERS
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER! — «
-§PL 809,8ll.8l? 1 81$.8l?. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sterion) SYDNEY. W.S.W
SILVERSMITH
C OWSULT/# e
OPTICIAN


Teddy Silks was cured by
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
READ WHAT HIS MOTHER SAYS:
There is no better medicine made for babies than Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
This fact has been advertised extensively, still some mothers are just finding it
out, and when they do, they are so pleased that they write and tell us of it, as
you will see from the following letter from Mrs. H. Silks, 29 Dowling Street,
Camperdown, Sydney:
s
.: ■w ■
m
vtmm*
m
'<• \ Vs* i ~
. (fi> : 9fM
; t A*
m
™&i**'* ■"
vm
***
afc
Sftgg;:
I
:«S
i 1
■
*:*
% l !
*s* v
“I really cannot let the opportunity pass without thanking you
for the good done my little son by using Chamberlain's Cough Remedy.
He had a very severe cold. The doctor gave me medicine for him, but it
did him no good. I was recommended to try Chamberlain's Cough Remedy,
and before a small bottle was half finished he was as well as ever. In fact,
after the first two doses he seemed to become bright again. Whenever I
hear of anyone having a cold now, no matter how severe, I recommend
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy."
MRS. H. SILKS.
NEVER NEGLECT A COLD.
A cold should never be treated lightly as it is
always more or less serious. Many people make
the mistake of neglecting a cold until some
serious lung trouble results. If Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy is taken when a cold is first
contracted it will promptly cure it, and not only save
doctors bills but much suffering and annoyance
later on.
Sold Everywhere 1/6; Large Size 3/-.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
GOUT
r m *
teen
Of all Drapers throughout the World. Manufacturers 57, Newton St., Manchester, Hng.
DISTINCTION IN DRESS
No dress looks so rich and feels so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. 11 is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
A Pot of CAPILLARINE
——3—— MOMB— M—mw—wraiM
will work wonders for your moustache.
It is a hair producer—the only genuine
moustache grower, and it has been
doing its good work for over 20 years.
Price lOs. 6d., post free anywhere .
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
Makes you lookmanJjr
Before
ifte*
A HUGE SUCCESS r
glffSaSgaaiiSga
BIRDS
kC.USTARD^
"wins
Bird’s
Custard With Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wale8,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
i Adults and the Youthful alike.


MKLMD’S
KALYDOR
FOR - Sim
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PIJ.ES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2)3.
BILIOUS ATTACKS.
Suffered for Years. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills Restored Her to Health.
Mrs. Martha Simmons, 8 Cove Street, Balmain,
tells how she was ailing for years, subject to bili-
ous attacks, periodical headaches and constipation
from her schooldays to womanhood. “Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills were,” she states, “the salvation
of her life.” Read what she says : : —
“In my teens I suffered very badly from bilious
attacks. My blood was very poor, my whole
system became completely ran down, and on
g
Mrs. Martha Simmons-
(From a photo.)
many occasions I was so
weak that I had to he sup-
ported home by my school -
maces. As I grew older I
did not seem to overcome
my weakness, and I was in
this state of health for a
long time. Periodica] head-
aches, bilious attacks and
constipation were my con-
stant ailments. I gave
many medicines a fair trial,
but I did not receive any
permanent relief. Thesal-
vation of my life was Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills ;
it was wonderful how they
relieved me of bilious at-
tacks. They put life into
my body, regulated my
system, and I gradually
grew stronger, until I became a perfectly healthy
woman. I still use Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
occasionally, and heartily recommend them to
everybody. You may use this testimonial just as
you like for publication.”*
STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
We9t Australian Agenta—RICHARD HOLMES & Co. f PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Saturday was Maoriland’s day out in Sydney,
and when the violet shades of evening fell like a curtain
both Australia and the United States of America were
under the heel of the Cow-spanking 1 Dominion. Aus-
tralia was vanquished by six points to nil and America by
14 to 11. But the disaster didn’t stop short in Sydney, for
at Brisbane the Englishmen wiped the floor with the
Queensland Leaguers in copious style, running.over them
to the tune of 33 points to nine. It was a great day for
the otherfellows. For this fellow it was no kind of a day
whatsoever.
In the sihsence of the English at Brisbane the
Rugby Union very reasonably looked forward to a big-
crowd at Sydney Cricket Ground to see the Maori team
play the Yankees and the All Blacks measure themselves
with Australia. (“Australia” was somewhat of a mis-
nomer, as the only States represented were Noo South
and Queensland, the latter having three men in the
XV.) But the Union must have been disappointed, for,
including “dead-head” ticket-holders, the crowd did
not exceed some 25,000. 1 It was a small attendance to
watch two potent international scraps.
The match between the Maoris and Yankees
came off first, and the colored fellow subjects who eat
dried shark, having won the toss, decided to play against
the wind. The Yanks took the offensive, and showed
that they had grasped to the uttermost the beauties of
line kicking. Although the Maoris went into it with all
the vim of the race, the deadly use of the line enabled
the Yankee captain to come back again and again to
knock loudly on the Maori front door. The Brown
Beople struggled desperately, and just managed to save
a couple of scores by the skin of a pint of beer. The
Yankees played splendidly, and every Maori charge that
was repulsed was followed up by a counter movement
that demoralised the forwards and greatly worried the
backs. A fine passing charge saw the Eagle go right
through the Maori crowd and over the line. The Yankee
five-eighth, Elliot, converted and made the score : Fried
Nigger, 5 ; Dried Shark, nil. Then the Maoris blazed out,
and with a herculean rush they carried the struggling
Yankees right down on to their own line, where a large
disagreement took place. One Yankee got laid out,
but his place was filled, and the heaving and
dead-lifting went on. The free and independent
citizens of the U.S. managed to kick clear; still
the Maoris came again, and a score looked certain. But
the Yanks pulled them all down just as they were getting
over the line, and the full-back getting the ball used the
line kick, and sent the enemies right back to their own
25. In the throw-in, Christopher Columbus secured,
and, with a beautiful passing charge, outwitted the oppo-
sition and, scored. This time, the kick failed. The
Yankees were playing- with machine-like precision. A
mixed passing and dribbling charge again swept the
Maoris into disorder, and before they could recover
George Washington was over the line once more. It
began to look like a rout, but the Maoris kept cool, and
tried to play the Napoleonic defence. They were still
trying when half-time arrived, and the score was : Burnt
Nigger, 11 ; Maori, nil. Backed up by the wind, which was
blowing somewhat fresher, the Maoris started the second
half with a great rush, in which Kaipara, outstripping
his mates, ran right into a horde of Yanks. Tearing the
ball from him, they started a counter-charge. It got, to
within a yard or so of the Maori line, when the
ball changed hands, and the two teams went
thundering down the field together in pursuit
of three brown men, who swept over the line and
wiped off nearly half the deficit. Over-eagerness caused
the Maoris to play wild, and certain scores were lost by
forward passing. The same anxiety apparently' inter-
fered with the kicking, and nearly lost the match,
for twice the Maoris scored tries hut. failed to add the
points. But from this time forward Benjamin Frankiin
and Abraham Lincoln were on the defensive and were
tiring fast, The only person w'ho w'as more weary than
Ulysses S. Grant was Jefferson Davis. But the complete
badness of the Maori gqal-kieking almost saved them,
for it was right on time when the Maoris wriggled over
the line and won by a margin of three points.
* * * *
The Australian and All Black teams found a
crowd worked up to a white heat of excitement as they
filed on. The Maorilanders again w-on the toss, and de-
fended the southern goal. Maoriland rushed Australia
into the 25, and would certainly have bullocked through
had not Australia gained respite by forcing. Australia
then got aggressive ; but the All Blacks, after a very
brief struggle, cleared and were raging on the Australian
line in less than no time. Again a certain score was
saved only by prompt forcing. A beautiful passing
charge was blocked by the Australian fullback, Dwyer,
w-ho kicked to the centre, where his men got possession
and looked like crossing. But long range kicking sent
the Australians back to fight for their lives on the line,
where a penalty kick was narrowly’ missed. For the
rest of the first half the Australians played
beautifully, tw'ice sending the ball over the Main-
land line, but failing to score. Excellent kicking,
brilliant passing and splendid dribbling kept the Blacks
hard on the defensive ; still they managed to pull down
every attempt to get over, and half-time arrived w'ithout
either side scoring. The second half opened with a series
of beautiful passing charges by Australia. They were
met w’ith a defence which was just as perfect, and the
crowd roared in excitement like the Zoo lion at feeding
time. Narrow escapes occurred almost every two
minutes, and some good saves were done on both sides.
Once the Australians took a shot from a free kick, but it
was charged down. The Maoriland captain was shouting
orders in the Brown language, and the whole team re-
sponded. A series of charges was let loose. Dwyer
(the local full back) struggling like a demon, blocked the
enemy again and again, and booted the ball back to half-
way. But the only certain defence in the circumstances
was to get the leather and attack. Australia failed to do
so, and Maoriland crossed, but failing to add the points
led by only three to nil. After that it was back and for-
wards, each side securing in turn, till close upon time.
Then Maoriland came again with one of its well-concerted
movements, and rushed once more over the line. Again
the Black kicker failed, and before either side had time
to do anything further the whistle blew, with the Blacks
leading by six to nil.
* * * *
The Rugby League had nothing of an extra-
ordinary nature in Sydney on Saturday, and the grade
matches resumed. At the Agricultural Ground there
w as a long, tough struggle between Eastern Suburbs and
Newtown. At half-time East was leading by 13 points to
eight. The second half saw both teamsgo mad, Newtown
apparently being 1 the madder ; but somehow Eastern
Suburbs always managed to turn the tables at the last
moment, and when the numbers were up East was on top
with 20 points to 11. At North Sydney Oval the
local Leaguers met the South Sydney crush, and a very
pretty meeting it was. When the dust and howl of
battle had passed aw'ay, it was found that North had
scored 27 points to South’s 21. At Wentworth Oval
Glebe fell upon Balmain to the tune of. 21 points to five,
and at St. Luke’s Park, in Burwood, the baby club
(Annandale) crumpled up Western Suburbs by 21 to 12.
Interest in Saturday’s Vic. League hoofball was
concentrated in Geelong, whose citizens, realising that
they have at last raised a tfeam that is some potatoes,
turned up in great masses to view' the discussion with
Oollingwood. Tait’s gradual express was, as usual, about
half an hour overdue, and when the Magpies had rushed
themselves into their togs, they hadn’t got their land
legs, so to speak. So Geelong made the most of its
chance, and by half-time had put up a tall}' —35 points to
18—that sent its barrackers beside themselves with joy.
In the third quarter, the visitors got their machine work-
ing properly, and added 22 points to Geelong’s two, giving
them a three-point lead, but the effort exhausted them,
and in the last term the Seasiders had things all theirown
way. They won easily by 69 to 47. Geelong has this
season renewed about half its team, and it is steadily
drilling into the youngsters the fact that combination is
the essene - of the game ; consequently it is well forward
in the procession, and should form one of the final
four. Of the Melbourne games, only that be-
tween Essendon and Richmond promised any joy ;
but Richmond has still to learn the lesson that
Geelong has assimilated,, and went down bump
in consequence, by 46 points to 68. Richmond has two
brilliant high markers, a speedy sprinter, and perhaps
three boggers-in—but six men don’t make a team, by a
jugful. The’Roy-South disturbance was expected to be
“ willing,” but the battlers forgot their old grudges for
the nonce and nothing riotous occurred. By dint of much
exertion the Maroons held the thick end of the stick up
to three-quarter time, but the disastrous inability
of the forwards to kick straight disheartened
the rest of their- mates, and in the last
quarter Skinner’s hirelings did much as they liked,
coming out on top with 72 points to 55. ’Varsity and
Melbourne held an elegant debate, w’hich would have had
more interest for spectators had the latter grasped the
fact that behinds don’t count as much as goals. This
omission left them in default at the close of the contro-
versy by 14 points—3s to ’Varsity’s 49. Carlton visited
St. Hilda, and, having piled up 55 points to 10 in the
first three-quarters, let the Saints down gently with a
final record of 64 points to 31. This being its ninth
successive defeat, St. Hilda is hereby urged to commune
with itself or get itself inspected or analysed or some-
thing.
As for the Ass. teams, the irregularity of their
performances gets on the nerves. A few weeks back
’Town administered severe castigation to P’ran, and a
little later Brighton jumped on ’Scrav with many jumps.
On Saturday P’ran downed Brig-hton by 79 to 48, w'hich
being interpreted would infer that ’Town would gallop
over ’Seray like a whirlwind ; yet ’Scray on Saturday
turned to and played the very devil with ’Town, bumping
it down the ladder with a tally of 100 points to 27. See-
ing that’Town ran the mighty North to a single point,
only three weeks before, it would take a Fusion
leader or a Freetrade paper to account for this last
di-aster. The aforesaid invincible North filled in a
leisurely afternoon by potting 17 goals and 32 behinds to
Preston’s four goals one behind, which is indeed a fear-
some record, but one that argues a sad lack of direction
in the winners’ efforts. Essendon rolled over ’Cote with
a score of 100 points to 59 ; while Brunswick, after toil-
ing hopelessly in the rear of Port for three-quarters, got
a move on, and ran out with 67 to Port’s 40. Port is
understood to have been much upset at the catastrophe.
It is possible that we are getting too much
football just noiv. With four over-seas teams raging
round Sydney the local follower is getting so sated that
when club games resume he will be full up. Monday
being- a holiday, became a boot and leather carnival. At
Sydney Agricultural Ground the English Northern Union
team met the old Kangaroo crowd ; while on the Cricket
Ground the Maoris and U.S.A. teams played again as
preliminary to the Australia-All Blacks match. Around
half a dozen suburbs the Soccer and Australian Rules
people went on with their competitions, drawing their
usual crowds. About 30,000 rqlled up to watch
the English and Kangaroos, and another 15,000
were at the Cricket Gtound watching the two
international matches that were fought out under
the Union banner. The League is very much
top-dog this season. A sig-nifieant item in the struggle
between the old and the new Rugby is the movement
now on foot to form an Amateur Rugby League.
The Kangaroos were mostly the same men, or
some of them, who toured England about 18 months ago
and made a, mighty splash. So, when they met the Eng-
lish on Monday, they were old friends and enemies. Un-
fortunately, the English had just arrived from Brisbane,
and the long railway journey had not helped their condi-
tion. The Kangs were very fit. Yet England had all
the best of the first half, during which the light
breeze from behind gave some slight assistance. The
Kangaroos drew first blood with a try, which Messenger,
by some miracle, failed to convert. Then England came
along with two for a penalty goal. The Kangaroos scored
another try and Messenger another miss. It was his off-
day. This gave Kangaroo a lead of six to .two. Butthatdid
not stand long, for England intercepted a return and
scored a try, to which Lomas added the extras, making the
score : England seven, Kangaroos six. Not feeling in
the condition for much forcing, the English resorted to
guile, and in less than a minute had added another try,
to which Loinas, however, failed to add the points ; arid
half-time arrived with England leading b.v 10 points to
six. But England was done, dog--tired, and the slight
advantage of the wind being lost, the team justcrumpled
up. The Kangaroos let loose.. A try, secured by good pass-
ing, lifted the score to nine ; a goal raised it to" 14, and two
more unconverted tries sent it up to 20. And all the time
England’s tally never moved, and the game finished with
the Kangaroos on top—2o to 10. In the second half
England had never a hope, and played on with dogged
courage to make the certain defeat as light as possible..
* * * *
At the Sydney Cricket Ground the match
between the Yankees .and'Maoris was. a somewhat dreary
affair. The Yanks had resolved to save the best men for
the match against Sydney University on July 9, and the
Maoris had a comparatively soft thing on. For this
Yankee team has a very decided tail. Although the
Americans started with the wind behind them the Maoris
assumed the offensive at once and the butchery began
from the jump. At half-time the Maoris were 11, the
Amurk ins nil. It was dispiriting. It was not till well
into the second half that the Yanks broke their egg with
a try, the getting of which was their one brilliant flash.
While the U.S. men made three the Maoris totted up 10
more, and finished comfortably with 21 points to three.
But if the curtain-raiser was dreary, the All
Blacks against. Australia gave some compensation— to the
patriotic. Although this Maoriland team is a degenerate
concern compared to the old-time footballers who came
from the land of the silver fern, it is still a formidable
combination. ( The Australians, on the other hand, are
probably better all round than at any previous period of
their history. In Monday’s match they passed well (no
sign of hanging on), followed up keenly, and kept their
combination excellently. The result was that the
Maorilanders were walked over. The forwards worried
them, and the backs ran over them, and all was rout and
disaster. Although the home team won by only 11 to
nil, the margin does not express the difference in play.
It was a debacle.
* * * *
The Australian game is forging ahead in Sydney
as it never did before, and the benefit of having a ground
of its own is now becoming very apparent to the League.
But it requires at least three more grounds, and then its
game will take rank with the other forms of football in im-
portance. Not only is the number of players increasing,
but the quality of play is rising steadily. No other
branch of football is so devoid of violence. Barring New-
town, the Australian Rules clubs ruthlessly drop
out any members guilty of anything of a shady
nature. Newtown is the solitary exception, and
one of these days the League will be driven, for the credit
of its government, to biff out the whole club and make
the innocent suffer with the guilty. On Saturday, Pad-
dington downed the gentry from Newtown by 34* points
to 25 on the same ground which, this time last year, saw
a disgraceful riot. This year there was no riot, but
there was rough, not to say foul, play in plenty. Red-
fern beat North Shore by 72 points to 55, and East Syd-
ney downed the Training College by 95 points to 17. The
Holy Ones dealt out defeat to Sydney by 63 points to 43.
A Cockney cricketer (E. H. Sewell), re the Aus-
tralian Board of Cricket Control and its refusal to
guarantee a £5OOO minimum share of to a
visitingS’African team, suggests that “the Cornstalks
are afraid of the S’Africans.” The obvious absurdity of
which suggestion lies in the fact that the All-Englanders
are not yet afraid of the S’Africans. What the Board of
Control fears is that a S’African team would not be,a
very strong draw. International feeling in the Australia
v. England tests is kept alive by the British-born section
of the community under the patronage of the Stinking
Pish party, and Stinking Fish has no bigoted belief in
the superiority of S’African things, anyhow. Young
Australia gets a lot of its entertainment in a Test
match by listening to ithe comments of Anglo-Aus-
tralians. A staunch old Britisher who has struck no luck
in this country is a grand institution at a Test match. His
vehement barracking brings out all the good humor of the
crowd. The interchanges of chaff help to pass the time
pleasantly. The crowd in.general admits its own bias by
sympathising with the violent partisanship of the old ’un
even whilst it is chaffing him. Without a good sprink-
ling of barrackers for the Englishmen a Test match in
Australia would be a dull show for the bulk of the crowd.
And in an Australia v. S’Africa series of matches, where
there was no strength of counter demonstration, public
interest would probably slump after the first event.
There doesn’t seem to be any strong foundation for a
heavy “gate.” S’Africa is neither sufficiently foreign nor
sufficiently kin to Australia. Its team would be half-Boer,
half- British, and wholly dependent on sporting rivalry for
attractiveness. Now, an ounce of national prejudice is
worth a pouud of sporting rivalry in a gate-money propo-
sition.
.** * *
A N.S.W. cyclist worth watching is L. A. Wal-
cott, who finished third in the Picton-Ashfield road race,
having done the 45 miles, including the dreaded Razor-
back, in 2hr. lmin. 23sec. This remarkable run suggests
that a new star is about to rise over the rim of the wheel,
and as he will meet Larcombe and Horder in the forth-
coming Goulburn-Sydney Dunlop race, the event should
be worth watching.
* # # If
Thaddeusßobl, who, the cable tells, was crushed
to death under his collapsed aeroplane at Stettin (Ger-
many) last month, was a fearless pace-follower. In Aus-
tralia, in ’02, with Piet Diekentmann, he proved an eye-
opener to local-cyclists. Diekentmann used at times to
lose his pacer, but Robl seemed, as he careered round
the banked tracks, to be part and parcel of the tumultu-
ous motor ahead of him. With his eyes glued to the
wheel in front, he kept his own wheel an unvarying 6in.
away, and though this writer saw him many times he never
saw him fail to maintain that exact distance. Pace-
following demands more nerve than open racing, where-
fore Itobi would have made a great ’pianist, but his luck
failed him, and at 33 he has gone where, if there be any
flying at all, it is done with wings and directed with a taii.
The Parramatta to Sydney road race on Satur-
day' wasn’t an inspiring athletic display. For a few miles
on the journey there was a little life in the proceedings ;
after that the contestants fell by the road-side. A big
field started, but only a handful finished. The first
three were: Hayden (12min.), Shiner (lOmin.) and
Symons(2omin.). The race was spoiled by the allowance
of excessively long starts. Although champion A. R.
Sime didn’t finish among the first 10, he gathered in
fastest time (87min. 53sec.) —only a trifle slower than
Johnson’s train.
The “walking championship of Australia”
(50 miles) at Adelaide was a hair-raising affair. H. G.
Wilson (Vic.), R. Leitch (S. Aus.) and H. O. Wilson
(Queensland) were the only competitors for the title and
£6O purse ; and the Victorian hung out long enough to
take the stake and verdict over Leitch by only a few
yards. The 50 miles were covered in 9hrs. 12min. ; and,
as the competitors performed' on a 17-lap-to-the-mile
circuit, and thereby buzzed past the same spot 850 times,
it was a monotonous trip.
* * * *
Although the late King Edward was no great
shakes on horseback, he was an enthusiastic wheeler,
and each of his grandchildren, as soon as he or she was
old enough, received from him a present of a wheel. He
was conservative in his tastes, and always supplied the
same make of machine. As he advanced in years he gave
up the bike and tried the tricycle. For a while he
abandoned that also, but last year he again took it up for
the sake of exercise, and was seen regularly riding in the
grounds of Buckingham Palace. George V. rides a bike,
and so does the present Prince of Wales. Other royalties
who bike are Princess Victoria of Wales and Queen Maud
of Norway. Queen Mary rides a trike, and so did the
Duke of Connaught. Probably the old boy has given it
up by this time. His legs are not as good as they were a
year or two back, and he is said to have now a preference
for sitting behind a pair of high-steppers—like George
Reid.
* * * *
Louis Pkulhan, now one of the boss aviators, is
quite a new arrival. A shade over a year ago he was
quite unknown—a mere mechanic working for about £2 per
week. He is only 26 y'ears of age, and in less than a year
he has piled up a fortune of abont £20,000. He made
£lO,OOO of it in one swoop during a night and a morning
by winning the London to Manchester Daily Mail flying
prize—-the one that redoubtable paper hit the insurance
co. for. He started life as a circus acrobat, then turned
sailor, then left the sea and became an artisan. Then he
was engaged by de la Meurthe, who owned the Ville de
Paris dirigible—the one that was presented to the Frenc h
Government to replace La Patrie, when the latter broke
from its moorings in a gale and was last seen in full fight
over Ireland, causing great alarm to the pigs. Paulhan
was an Observant cuss, and while floating round in the
dirigible he took particular notice of air currents, and is
now the authority on the subject. It is knowledge that
has repaid well the trouble it cost him to acquire it. He
got his first rise, literally' as well as figuratively, by win-
ning a prize in a model competition. The first, prize
entitled him to have his model reproduced full size by
the celebrated Voisin people ; but the factory' was work-
ing overtime just then, and the firm compromised by
offering him one of its own machines instead. Paulhan
accepted, but as the machine had no engine he was
stuck. He went round offering to pay for an engine out
of his winnings ; and four thrifty firms turned him down.
The Gnome Co. was more enterprising, and gave him an
engine. If he made any winnings he was to pay for the
engine ;if he didn’t the engine was gratis. At his first .
appearance at Douai he won about £2OOO, and paid
up promptly. Then he w'ent to Rheims, but Farman,
Glen Curtiss, Latham and Bleriot collared all the lime-
light there, and most of the money went with the
illuminant. Still Paulhan pocketed about £4OO by
covering 81J miles, and returned home quite satisfied, for
he was a man with a future. At Blackpool (England) he
covered himself w'ith glory and sovereigns, carrying off
about £4OOO. He has been, picking coin up in shoals ever
since, and the Daily Mail’s £lO,OOO was the finishing
stroke. Now he has had the satisfaction of beating the
Wright Bros, in the action they' brought against hint in
New York, and he rakes in some thousands of dollars by
way of compensation for being prevented, under certain
injunctions, from flying over the free soil of the U.S.A.
* * * *
Matters in connection with the big fight grow
more interesting as July 4 approaches. Things have been
very solemn. First Jeffries got an attack of boils, which
made him seriously wonder if the J in his name stood
for Job. Then he sprained his thumb, and had to rest it'
for a week. Then the Governor of California “ roasted
the whole show as a fake, and finally suppressed it.
Johnson got into trouble with an ex-munager, but
eventually bought him off in time to move on
to Reno, in Nevada. The Reno people drew the
color line; and refused the nigger accommodation,
and it looked as though the champion of the
world would be starved out of the State. So,alto-
gether, the two gentlemen have been having a parlous
time of it. Now comes word that a racial riot is expected
over the affair, and Johnson is certain to get killed, any-
how, either by Jeffries in the ring or the mob outside of it.
Harry Lewis, sairl to be the world’s champion
welter-weight, lately figured in a remarkable m6l6e at the
Salle VVagram, Paris. Lewis undertook to fight three
pugs one after another, and stop each inside 10 rounds.
His first opponent, an Englishman, took the count in
half a round. The second, another Bulldog, received an
opiate in'a round and a half. But the third, an American
negro, refused to be knocked out, and declined to be
quiet. Fouling Lewis as well as the rules from the start,
he grabbed the white by the left arm, wrestled
and stoushed him on the ground, and then pro-
ceeded to strangle him.. Thereupon Lewis’ man-
ager, one Lippe, disgusted at the powerlessness
of the referee, strode in to finish the battle with a bottle.
He banged the black over the cranium with his imple-
ment. The Ethiopian rose and fled into the audience,
where he was saluted with sticks, furniture and general
debris. Almost immediately after, Lippe bit mother
earth from a blow on the chin ; the referee fell into a
doze from a hurtling chair ; and the audience furiously
mixed it among themselves. When the police arrived
the scene was wild but enchanting; for the whole atten-
dance of about 4000 was more or less engaged in battle.
They were torn apart, and the premises closed up for the
night.
# * * ■»
Douglas, of S’Africa, and Whitelaw, of New-
castle (N.S.W.), put up a long, indecisive sort of fight in
Melbourne Sports Club’s ring the other night. Whitelaw
had a decided advantage in weight and scope, and
propped Douglas with a long left when out of range of
the stocky Boer’s very limited swipe. By this means
only YVhitelaw succeeded in securing the decision after
20 rounds of strenuous effort, in which Douglas did most
of the plugging-in. After midway Douglas was particu-
larly aggressive, and the twelfth round was all his by
virtue of vigorous mauling. Whitelaw, at the con-
clusion of this brisk three minutes, had the pained ex-
pression of a pug who finds it all vanity and vexation of
spirit, but freshened up under the spray, and came again
with much esprit in the later spasms. He just about de-
served the verdict, which, however, might have gone the
other way without occasioningwild surprise.
* * * *
The V.R.O. “National ” meeting' starts on
Saturday, when the big Hurdle Race and the Maiden
Steeple are the chief troubles, The field for the Hurdle
is not likely to exceed 20 or go less than 15, and, at time
of writing, the man who puts his boots-on any special
fancy seems likely to acquire corns when walking' home.
With the ground in good order, Attahua, at list. 71b.,
should beat most of them ; King’s Ransom, Lord Des-
mond, The Reckoning and Diterrogator look dangerous
among the middle-weights, whilst Volta and Harvest aie
the pick of the bunch placed below the lost. mark.
Harvest is a six-year-old that took the big jumps before
coming into notice as a hurdler. In the Steeplechase
his handicap is list. 31b. In the Hurdle Race he will
have 9st. 131 b. to carry, and if this son of Harvester is as
open to improvement as some people say he is, the weight
can’t stop him. Running at Caulfield, the other week,
he “ hung out ” a lot at the finish of a two-mile race, but
over the three miles at Flemington he is expected to run
straight enough. Hazarding an attempt to pick it in
once The Bulletin will take Harvest in preference to
King’s R insom, Attahua, Lord Desmond and “ the field,”
which latter is a mighty good ’orse, as usual.
* * * *
“ Billy ” McGregor, having ridden in the South-
eastern Steeplechase at Mount Gam bier (S.A.) Cup meet-
ing, and been cheered on completing the course (though
his mount was not fast enough to win), Adelaide Resister
recalls his career. He rode the winner of the same race
in 1879 ! That was its first year. He has won it several
times since—often on horses of his own—and has only
failed to start in it two or three times in the 31 years. He
has been riding in cross-country races for 40 years.
The Melbourne Cup weights knocked a big hole
in reputations. “J. Baron,” owner of Prince Foote, was
strong-headed enough to imagine that his four-vear-old
prad was the equal of Carbine at the same’age ; but the
weight-adjuster only piled 9st. 71b. on Prince Foote,
whereas Carbine ran second in the Cup with 10st. 41b.
Looking at the weights from the point of view’of figures
(and leaving the tipping to the foolish), there are only
three horses asked to carry over 9st. in the Melbourne
Cup ; 17 are burdened between Bst. and 9st. ; 66 between
7st. and ‘Bst. ; while 112 are weighted under 7st., of
which 52 are on the minimum (6st. 71b.).
fr * * *
“A.H.” writes from Buluwavo, S’ Africa :
Arnst and the rest need have no great fear of malaria, as
it isbad onlv from February till about the beginning of
May. Word has just come of a considerable drowning
fatality on the Zambesi through “hippo” upsetting a
boat. Since Roosevelt has been along the track the
“hippo” have legitimate grounds for unpleasantness;
but, to give them their due, they are not vindictive.
Your hippopotamus never interferes with you after he
has smashed your boat up. Once he gets you into the
water he leaves you alone, and it is doubtful if he would
make any fuss if you used his tail for a tow-line. Take
him allround, “ hippo” is a sport and a gentleman, which
is more than can be said for most of the bounders who
harry him with explosive shells while the cinematograph
fellow works his handle vigorously.


Missing Friends.
WILL CHARLES and PATRICK
FRANCIS SOMERS, of N.' Queensland,
write to their sister NELLIE,
Yundamindera, W.A.
THE “MOTA” <*.<«•>
m -
mm
SMARTNESS, good taste and a certain in-
dividuality characterise the “ Mota.” It is
more than a lounge felt —more dressy and
stylish. The crown and brim can be adjusted to
suit the taste of tire wearer. The “Mota” is
stocked by leading retailers throughout Australia,
in all fashionable colors. Prices 7/6 to 12/6.
Look out for the registered trade mark “ Mota ”
stamped on the leather, without which none are
genuine. Ask for the “Mota,” and insist upon
getting it.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
Public Notices.
£l5O REWARD.
STOLEN from WESTGROVE (Upper
Dawson, Queensland), about FEB-
RUARY this year, EIGHTEEN (18)
head UNBROKEN HORSES (seven fillies and
eleven cojts—two saddle and balance draught-
majority bays), branded B V 5 over distinguish-
ing number on off shoulder, with number seven
(7) on cheek. „ „ .
THE ABOVE REWARD WILL BE PAID
to anvone giving information which will lead to
the CONVICTION of the thief or thieves and
the recovery of the stolen horses.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION refer to
the POLICE or to the undersigned.
JOHN COLLINS & SONS,
Tamrookum, Beaudesert,
June 4, 1910. Queensland
Shell Motor Spirit.
ITS PERFECT PURlTY—
that’s the Point.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
EXTREME SHOE COMFORT
is experienced the moment you slip your foot
into this Shoe.
It is unquestionably one of the most comfortable
Shoes it is possible to wear.
It is very dressy, stylish, well made and extremely
serviceable.
It’s a Black Phoenix Calf Derby.
19,0, 21/-, 22/6.
Also in Tan, 23/6 and 25/-
Ditto in Boots. Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our new Booklet.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
sfdg
Celluloid Collars.
Comfortable to wear, finished exactly like the best linen collar. Economical.
We are one of the largest importers in the Commonwealth of these goods,
and stock all shapes and sizes. We only keep the best.
We have a splendid
range of Gentlemen’s
Collars in various
shapes.
Mothers ! You will effect a
great saving in the laundry bill
if your boys wear these collars.
We will post direct to you.
Eton, 9d. each.
Charterhouse, 1/= each.
Price 1/- each, or
3 for 2/6, post free
to any part.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue “ B,” post free.
Novelty Rubber Co., 250 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
CMD
is
M
?68
1U
-Clifford
you m
tU
c^2
U- J
Li—3
2= Z=
o <— l
z
■Tut-
• 51LVCRT Own • RUD&CR ■ C?
■ 279-G[oR6['5 T SYPh[Y-
The
July issue of The Lone Hand
appears in russet brown. It is a
special fiction number, comprising
“The Best Australian Stories by
the Best Australian Authors.” No less than
eight big stories are packed into this issue.
Henry Lawson, Francis Kenna, G. B. Lan-
caster, Aldridge Evelyn, “ Kodak, W. Sabel-
berg and May Siecle are the contributors of
splendid yarns. But The Lone Hand for July
is not only fiction, good as that fiction is. J. FI.
M. Abbott contributes a sane appreciation of
George V. He succeeds in expressing what is
probably the typical Australian view of the
business of kingship. Other kings come in for
consideration in “ The Commercial Kings of
Australia,” a series that begins in this issue and
includes three outstanding commercial men.
Their life-stories and characteristics are inter-
estingly dealt with by O. C. Cabot. C. A.
Jeffries has a timely article upon the bungle of
our wrongly-built railways, with suggestions
for reform. Roosevelt s “ Hunting on the
Equator,” “ The Stage,” “ Ihe Dictates of
Fashion,” and “ The World’s Doings ” make
up the best issue to date. As both the May
and June issues were sold out within a
few days, you had better sprint for this issue.
Pitblished July i. Price 6d.
fds
OVER 2000 CYCLES!
Over 2000 cycles are leaving our
factory every year, and we are doing
the biggest cycle manufacturing
business in the State.
Send your name and address for
our Catalogue.
We build the
B. and B. MODEL 3
of the best imported parts, fit it with
first-class tyres and guarantee £ | |
it a year for Mil*
With free wheel and back rim brake or coaster hub, £1 extra.
OUR PITT STREET DEPOT IS OPEN EVERY FRIDAY TILL 9 P.M.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Buildin
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
THe
<zr
ROYAL MERCEDES
HE ROYAL MERCEDES.
(The Exclusive Car)
Owned by every Crowned
Head in Europe, and the
Nobility of the World.
The MERCEDES Car is
known by everyone to stand
by itself, and is without
doubt the finest car money
can buy. Year in and year
out it sets the fashion to the
motoring'world. If you want
the best car that money can
buy, well there is only one
car for you, and remember
that although the Mercedes
is by far the most expensive
car in the world, we sell them
for less than other cars of the
same power on the market
here. Why ? becau-e we are
satisfied with a fair profit.
B.S. A. CARS (Birmingham Small Arms Co.)
Undoubtedly the very best English car manufactured. The firm who mamifacture these ears have a world-
famous reputation for workmanship and quality of material used in the nuirrufaetiu e of tlien p»oc ucts.
S. C. A. T. (Societa Ceirano Automobili Torino)
The Italian car that is designed and manufactured by that motor genius Ceirano, and the only car. in
the world tbat.has a reliable pneumatic self-starter and tyre inflater. See the new 15-h.p. S.C.A.I.
before deciding on a car.
THE, “COMMER” COMMERCIAL CAR..
British-made, the most substantial, powerful and economical motor lorry made, owned by most of the
leading firms in England ; and all firms that have bought these cars have given repeat, orders. YVe can
prove to intendin', purchasers that the COMMER is doing work without the slightest hitch that many
other Commercial cars have broken down at. Call and see us and have the COMMER shown you.
The Reliable DAYTON MOTOR BUGGY.
A Motor Car on buggy wheels, 20-h.p. 2-cvlinder water-cooled engine, dual ignition, Bosh magneto.
We only ask you to see and try the DAYTON before deciding. If you will do this, we have your order.
Motor Body Building Department
We would like the trade, and everyone interested in this
class of work, to inspect our up-to-date plant of machinery
and factory. We are in a position to turn out the best
work at the lowest cost, and in the shortest time. Give
us your orders for this class of work ; we guarantee to
give you satisfaction.
MOTORIES LIMITED,
280 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 4902 Central. Body Building Dept., 470 Paddington.
COMMERCIAL CARS,
LTD.
a
iii
See the CHALLENGE REINFORCED INNER TUBE. It prevents blow-outs, and allows of old blown-out
and discarded covers to be used. By using them you will reduce your tyre bill by more than half.


Emaciation
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Scott’s Emulsion perman-
ently cures emaciation in
all its stages. This statement
is made because hundreds of
parents have written to say
their children were cured of
emaciation by Scott’s Emul-
sion. For example, Mrs. J. H.
Vears wrote, 16th August,
1909, from corner Stephens
Rd., Botany, Sydney, N.S.W.:
‘At 7 months my daughter began to fail,
suffered from chest colds, and became very
weak and emaciated. The doctor told me
I would have to use great care to rear her.
gsd
At 17 months I tried Scott’s
Emulsion, and she at once
began to gain weight and
strength. Appetite improved,
and she teas soon able to walk.
She is no longer troubled
with chest colds, and is a fine,
healthy child. This trademark
was on the emulsion I bought. ”
If you wish to get rid of emaci-
ation and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Sc ot t’ s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient-and
b L appr y ved by your Doctor for
Emaciation if you ask him.
° f all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
X V'
THE STRONG
and Vigorous Man will always succeed
" here the weak, nervous and debilitated
man must fail. We restore health,
strength and vitality with Nature’s
remedies. Ohr advice is free to all.
herbal dispensary,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Established 27 Years.
FROOTOIDS
3ure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
ion, and Biliousness. Tliey are elegant
ri appearance and pleasant to take;
;hey are immensely more valuable than
in ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and interna) organs,
waste poisonous' matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that”lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in §uch cases when
other aperients have not done any gbod
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested,
frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually bec®mes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being- a curse in your home and a_nuisance ho
your friends. The Devil of Drink cUn be banished
for ever by D 3. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCDHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S. W.). A harmless renfedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS: 54 Russell Street, Melbourne ; IXOI Hav
Street, Perth, W.A. jg
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘ TENASITINE
-Cements for breakages, iiiaiuifacturiiif; purposes,- etc;
g
b-i«* d d => r* JTXH
WHO HAVE USED “H E LA
VV e HELA ’ removes pain immediately and.cures diseases. It supersedes
v a err -v a tatR 0 , 1 !^’ 1068 and ointments, stops bleeding: instantly.
nJwJ Ll -^ PPLIED ’ DOES NOT IRRITATE, IS CLEAN and'EFFECTIVE.
ore giving: up hope or undergoing: an operation for anything, try
~ . . . Dr. H. F. Bell’s Wonderful Remedy. “HELA.”
Externallv n f a or y ABSCESs” S A BCRNS C FCyPMT iF BvI'^ ZA ’ RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA, etc.
Sen-ator M‘CnZl ,::,k BUR J NS > ECZEMA, EYE COMPLAINTS, RHEUMATISM, PILES, etc.
your pamphlet has been ful,y verified in
S °A bookie t^nfauibmfuinnfo?n C r 8 ° nB ’ri CIVII Service s °ciety, Cole’s Book Arcade, and all Medicine
Pr,C «^^
— ' HKEA atnal - Tel. 290 Yarra. South Yarra. Vic.
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest ?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat ?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9- “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
“A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS. AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N S. W. Branch Office : 522 George Street, Sydney.
HAVE
YOU?
mm
m
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W
and Victoria, .thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Oidinaij gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 C0„ 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
Pi
fr>
Restores GREY and FADED HAIR
TO A NATURAL BROWN or BLACK.
McGEE’S CELEBRATED HAIR STAIN
is a distinct preparation from the old-fashioned hair-dves
It will not wash nor rub off—and does not discolor linen.’
Price 4/6 and 8/6 a bottle, or posted 6d. extra.
ANDREW McGEE,
Gentlemen's
Hairdresser,
5 »nd 7 Castlereag'h Street, corner Hunter Street,
Sydney.
The Inky Way.
Wang; : As head serang of a fairlv-large lending;
library I can vouch for the statement that women have
no sense of humor. If humorous writers depended for
a living- on women they would starve in a week. They
t ,, sta . , ' d ”^ he Australian humorists—Henry Lawson,
w C vv W Edward Dyson, Paterson, and so on ; nor
n-'J u . 0 Dick , e '“ s > Jerome K. Jerome, Mark Twain,
llret Harte, Max Adeler and Artenlus Ward, just to men-
tion a few. Put show them any of Charles Garvice’s
sausage- wrappers—“ He gazed into her liquid hazel eyes
while the perfume of her hair carried him back through
the lost days to that sweet hour beneath the old, old oak
when his blood surged to her first kiss "—Lord, how they
wolf it 1 When I first took on the job I used to make an
unholy mess of things. A woman would come in and
ask to be recommended a good book. I would recom-
mend one. It would land back next day, and the lady
to whom it had been recommended would inform me
, L at she couldH tread it. I know the ropes now, and
when Miss Jones asks for a book—“ one that you can
recommend, you know I pass her over two gallons of
tripe. It can’t make her any more foolish than she is.
and it pays me. ’
* * * *
“ A.V.”: It’s about time that Fitehett devoted a few
pages of Life to Australian stories by Australian writers.
He boasts of his mammoth circulation, yet he does little
or nothing to encourage local writers. Modest periodi-
icals, such as Tub Bulletin, Sydney Mail, etc., which are
»Ot guilty of skiting about their circulation, purchase
local material every time.. Last year Life announced
that it intended to publish a series of short stories bv a
well-known Australian writer. On the strength of this
announcement I subscribed to the magazine, and felt
sure that the scissors and paste periodical was going to
turn over a new leaf. But, alas ! when the yarns turned
out to be Dorrington’s “Bully Hayes’’ - stories, re-
printed from the Pall Mall Magazine, a loud and fierce
damn rent the atmosphere. I uttered the cuss word.
* * * '
“Scribe”: A piragraph on newspaper “readers”
awakens a recollection. A Victorian paper once came
out with this apology: “Please excuse shortcomings.
We have this week been our own publisher, editor, sub-
editor, reporter, canvasser, compositor and reader ”
Say this was editor Potts. Well, editor Slurk, of the
rival paper, quoted the paragraph, with this addition •
“After all this trouble.it is very hard that Mr. Potts
should be the only reader.” But Potts got in on him
Slurk was an awkward writer. He finished up a report
of the toasts at the local Agricultural Show banquet
with: “ The Press was Drunk, and the Ladies was
Drunk.” Potts dipped his pen in gall and wrote : “Hav.
ing been unavoidably absent ourselves, we can under-
stand that the press was drunk, but for his libel on the
local ladies Mr. Slurk ought to be flung into the
Oampaspe.”
* * * *
“The Grafter”: I yesterday came across this item in a
Smart Set story dealing with the mad variety of get-busv-
do-it-now yellow journalism of Yankeeland :
“Copy-readers have been known to swoon while read-
ing graphic descriptions of hideous events written by
skilful writers.”
I am glad lam not a Yankee yellow journalist. Even
when the brains are on the ceiling and the skull has re-
bounded across the street, I am afraid I couldn’t be so
graphic as all that.
* * * *
Federal Minister King O’Malley told an Adelaide audi-
ence on June 14 that, when he was in the United States
he ran a paper called the Fighter. It came out on
Saturdays, and the articles were so hot that all the staff
left town each Friday night. Then when the people who
were criticised fired their revolvers into the windows on
Sunday, no one was hurt. He urged the Labor journal
not to be too namby-pamby, but to emulate his old
editorial methods.
* * * *
“M.A.P.” which, being interpreted, means Mainly
About People, and which is run by a‘ London person who
is supposed to be eminently fitted to write about people
recently referred to .Lord Brassey as having been
“Governor of Victoria, British Columbia.”
. ?; * * * *
“Kobbi" : What tickles my fancy most about the
country rag is the delight with which it advertises on
the front page : “ With which is incorporated the Dog-
tail Times, 1891,” and so on, giving the dates of its
various victories over the rivals who came to steal half of
its half-existence. Some of them have swallowed half a
dozen unfortunates in the course of time, but, like a
kangaroo dog, they get no fatter. And the four pages
and a supplement assault your front gate at regular in-
tervals with heart-breaking thinness of news.
* * * *
At the Melbourne pressmen’s spree to Mark Twain, it
was poor Lambie, the Age war correspondent and the
first Australian shot in the Boer War, who proposed the
health of Mrs. Clemens. Lambie had brought a basket
of rosesjfrom his own garden, and these he presented to
Twain rin the course of a modest little speech. This
brought, Mark to his feet again, with a genuine and
graceful appreciation of his wife, expressing sentiment
as clean as his humor was pure. He credited his wife
with the full responsibility for the advent of three
daughters. But he wanted a son everso badly—he would
have claimed all the credit for that branch of the family,
he said. That want of a son was clearly one more of
Mark’s pretty numerous trials.
* * * *
The Atlantic Monthly f>r April has an article on
“The Waning Power of the Press,’’its text being a speech
made by Gavnor, the new Mayor of New York, in which
he thanked the papers that opposed him (comprising all
but one in the city) for his election. The writer,"one
Leupp, in discussing the phenomenon, is inclined to
attribute it to the disappearance of personally-
influential editors like Horace Greeley, and to think it is
only local. Australia, however, has just gone through a
similar experience in the Federal elections, in which the
Fused Government, supported with enthusiasm by almost
the whole daily press of the Commonwealth, went out
with a bang. And 20 years ago the Demo-
cratic party in Maoriland started its amazing
period of success' with hardly a single paper
to give it a leg up. The simple explanation seems to be
that some papers have influence, and others haven’t.
Also that papers haye influence at some times and not at
others. Further, some papers can tell which way the cat
is going to jump and can’t—but it isn’t always the
sanie paper, nor is it always the same cat.
THE THE CROSS-BRED YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spinners of cross-bred yarns are busy, -Daily paper.
It is not the aboliar that is here referred to, plainly,
For the thing that he produces is of pure merino, mainly;
purest super combing, he discourseth sagely,
But the spinners of the cross-bred yarn have other wheels
for turning.
Wl 'burning OMgS ° f cIaSS a,ld party they are ever fiercely
As to dreadful doom Australia travels downward past
returning. r
Yes, the shadows of destruction gather round us grimly,
greyly, 6 •”
And the cross-bred yarner sorrows, and when all resources
fail he
Writes an awful warning letter in the columns of a
daily.
And he curseth all Australia with his curses, loud and
bitter,
And declares that this were reason, and that that were so
much titter,
W bile Australia passeth, smiling, never heeding where he
nit her.
1 es, Australia passeth, smiling, nor his cross-bred story
heedeth, J
Though perhaps she wonders sometimes how her soil
such hatred breedeth,
And whence cometh all the venom in the awful screed
she readeth.
For fifty years ago she read the same old awful warning,
And she knows the strength and texture of the futile
cross-bred yarning,
A,l< Varni'ii^ U,f * n ' t US6 0116 ree^ld ** Ber stockings wanted
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


c
IV
V *
J/
>
£2 S
) y
am
mm
jiKfl
V'
jf
>
mRm
ii
sss
mi infe
'. o <*
4, ■. .
A Drawing by Miss
O'Neill Latham , the Cele-
brated American Artist.
let the
CHILDREN
KODAK.
The No. 1 BROWNIE KODAK, for
pictures 2±in. x 2|in., costs but 55., and
is loaded and unloaded in daylight.
THE KODAK —the
Standard Camera
of the World
1
Kodak Photography is photography
reduced to its simplest terms. There is
nothing mysterious about it, nothing
complicated or difficult, and every opera-
tion can be carried out in daylight. You
will find it a healthful, fascinating and
interesting pastime at all times.
For holiday tours, outings and gather-
ings at home it provides a great deal of
innocent amusement, and at the same time
enables you to secure pictorial records of
events that in after years will be a source
of delight and pleasant recollection to you
and yours.
Kodaks range in price from 26/- f
Brownie Kodaks from 5/-, and no matter
what amount you determine to expend
on your Kodak, you can be quite sure of
its reliability, and also of the fact that
right from the start you will be able to
produce excellent photographs.
We instance below two Kodaks which
are general favorites. They are undoubt-
edly the most popular cameras extant.
You should call at one of our branches
and inspect these famous cameras. If that
is not convenient, write for a copy of the
Kodak catalogue.
THe No. 3 Folding
Pocket Kodak
takes splendid pictures, measuring 3iin. x 4|in. —
the popular quarter-plate size—and has a capacity
of 12 exposures without reloading. It is fitted
with a Rapid Rectilinear Lens, of good quality,
a F.P.K. Automatic Shutter, brilliant rever-
sible View Finder, two tripod sockets, and an
automatic focussing lock. The total weight'is
only 230 z., and the price
£3 12s. 6d
Postage 1/3
extra
Tke No. 3a Folding
Pocket Kodak
weighs only 410 z., and embraces all the practical
features of Cameras several times its bulk, yet
retains the Kodak simplicity. It takes grand
pictures of x and is fitted with a
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, the F.P.K. Automatic
Shutter, two tripod sockets, a brilliant reversible
Finder, with hood and automatic focussing
lock. Price
£4 lOs.
Postage 1/3
extra.
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill.
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
Model “ T ” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials: —
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy orf Tyres.
5. Cheapness of-Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in sto-k
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Cinematograph FHms_ on a//
Subjects for Hire at Jerdan’s.
©
©
(H
Q)
0
©
©
©
We Stock Everything for the Showman.
Write Us for Your Wants.
We have over 250,000 feet of Films —on
practically all kinds of subjects—for hire
or sale.
All of them in good condition —most of
them new, and many just arrived, and
not yet shown.
In addition, we are selling Cinemato-
graphs, duplicate parts, etc., undertake
repair woik, and have competent
operators always ready to assist you.
We Make Films on
Special Subjects.
Our reputation for reproductions of
Australian subjects is well known—we
have made practically every successful
film on local subjects, and our prices are
moderate.
JERDAN’S (Formerly OSBORN 8 JERDAN),
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
? <
n
K
/
Alcock Billiard
TaWes Excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “Alcock’s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the recent match between George Gray and Fred
Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coming off the red,
making a world’s record, and for which Gray received a gold
medal, is an example. This score is another proof of the mar-
vellous accuracy and perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK 6? CO. Pty. Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney; 114 Edward St., Brisbane; Lower Cuba St., Wellington
15S Elizabeth St., Melbourne; 7 Ring William St., Adelaide; Murray St., Perth


■V
\1
This Sweater
2s. lid.
This is a Child's Sweater in Navy,
with fancy collar and cuff; to button
on shoulder, 2s. lid.
Men's Sweaters, similar in style, to
button on shoulder, in plain Navy, with-
out fancy trimmings, 6s. 6d. j in Navy,
Green or White, Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d.
We have Sweaters to suit everybody—
man, woman or child. Shall we send
you a catalogue of them ? We can surely
save you money.
FINNEY, ISLES 8 CO.,
LIMITED,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND.
A dozen of Queensland’s pioneers*—men
who were living there before the Separation from
N.S.W. in 1859—interviewed Andrew Petrie,
M.L.A., the other day, and asked him to try to
persuade the Bananaland Parliament to do some-
thing for them as a reward for their services in
opening up the country. One of the aheients
showed an original faded receipt given him by
Dr. Lang. He paid that energetic person £6O
for land, and never got the land. Some of the
others had similar documents, which had proved
equally valueless. Sixty pounds, with compound
interest for 51 years, is a good deal, and the appli-
cants reckon they ought to get the land now. It
is said that there are in Queensland about 500
veterans who date back to before Separation, and
who would all have claims if land grants were
being handed round. Andrew Petrie, to whom
they applied, belongs himself to one of Banana-
land’s old families. The Petries landed in Bris-
bane as far back as 1837. They came in the
James Watt, the first steamer which entered
More ton Bay. One of the family, John Petrie,
was Brisbane’s first Mayor.
Under Federation and its fostering tariff
the tobacco industry is flourishing in Bananaland.
Texas, which is lusty enough these times to holler
for a railway, now raises half the pipe weed pro-
duced in Australia, and there is no reason why it
should not supply sufficient for the whole of the
consumption, seeing that its leaf is declared to be
the best for the purpose produced in the Common-
wealth. At one time it was thought that when
the local output reached 300 tons the market
would be. glutted, but the tariff has swelled the
market space visibly; so much so that
this year the crop weighed 500 tons
(worth £32,000), and the manufacturers are
asking for 800 tons next year. In addition to the
men who grow the leaf, 50 hands are employed in
the stemming factory, which cost £6OOO. The
smartest hand is a girl of 16, who makes £2l2s. 3d.
per week, while the average stemmer makes 30s.
per week. There ought to be much better times
ahead when the industry is nationalised. The
blot on the industry is the fact that Chows still
do most of the labor on the farms.
A CRITICISM.
JOR : “If Rockfeller was to say fO me, ‘ Joe’ ere’ s
er thousand quid, and when yer want more
come to me,’ I’d say, ‘ Thank yer, Rockfeller,
but a thousand quid’s ernuff for any man!”
HIS MATE: “Course it would for you, Joe;
you couldn't put a thousand down yer neck;
you’d be dead.”
The steamer Empire called at Pinkenba,
lately, with no less than 240 returned Chinese
aboard, among.whom was discovered one solitary
package of opium: North Queenslanders tell of
a steady influx into the Cairns, Atherton and
Geraldton districts of new chum Chows ignorant
of English, whose antecedents no one can trace
and whose date of entry into Australia no one can
ascertain.
Two of Brisbane’s doves came before the
Police Magistrate last week on a charge of having
bailed up with revolvers a decent citizen in the
gloaming. It was elicited in the course of the
evidence that Tottie Turpin and Lottie Duval
had sold their jewellery by way of procuring cash
to purchase guns and cartridges. When
questioned as to the why and the where-
fore of the purchase of the aforesaid artil-
lery one of the ladies alleged it was
their joint intention to drown themselves. Hence
the sacrifice of jewellery, the buying of guns, the
sticking-up of John Doe, and the subsequent ap-
pearance in the police court. Neither lady got
within half a mile of the river.
THE EXCEPTION, [?]
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TRSCHER (to slum orphan): “ You are very dark, Polly; were your parents
white people ? ”
Polly : ‘‘ All on ’em ’cept one Wot was drowned whin I wos a kid.”
“San Remo”: The Bulletin is correct
when it says that “ they don’t go much on the
sectarian racket up North.” Rockhampton is
fairly free from it; but to find the true sp rit of
friendliness and goodwill amongst rival denomi-
nations go to some of the bush towns of Central-
west Q. —Longreach, Barcaldine, Emerald, Cler-
mont, etc. In some of those places, on St.
Paddy’s Day, all the Friendly Societies march in
procession with the Hibernians, and the Boys in
Green reciprocate when the Lads in Yellow have
a time of rejoicing. And there isn’t a dashed
town in the bunch that would turn round twice if
it saw Dill Moran and Patrick Macky drinking
together in a bar. Rockhampton boasts the finest
cathedral in Queensland. It isn’t a Protestant
church, but there’s a heap of Protestant money
buried in it. A Scotchbyterian firm built and
donated the altar, and sent a cheque to help deck
it out; the Government Architect, who-wasn’t a
Roman Catholic, supplied the plans of the build-
ing ; and quite a crowd of donators weren’t of the
Pope’s way of thinking. If the sectarian devil
isn’t dead up here, he’s getting that way. Last
time I saw him he had hardly a tail left to stand
on.
Tact.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONE morn awoke our Gracious Lord the
King,
And cried : “ I dreamt last night a
curious thing :
My teeth fell out, like useless pegs of lead,
And left me ne’er a grinder in my head.
Ye courtly sages, hither and divine,
What hidden meaning hath this dream of mine?”
And to the King his oldest sage replied :
“Thy dream portends that in thy full noontide
Of youth and power and glory there shall pass
And perish all thy kinsmen as the grass;
And thou shalt hear them make their dying moan
And find thee helpless on thy golden throne ! ”
The King called in his henchmen with a frown—
‘‘Go, cast him in my deepest dungeon down,
And when his foolish face hath gone from here
Bid then, straightway, my second sage appear !”
The second came ; a wily wight was he,
Who bent before his lord a supple knee
And smoothly said : “ The dream is clear as glass
And pointeth plain how things shall come to pass ;
How he whom Persians love and poets praise
Shall flourish, blessed with length of laughing
days,
So that, when kin and family fail and fall,
Our Glorious King shall long outlive them all ! ”
The sage departed— not without subvention
And smiling prospects of a noble pension.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
Non-Proven.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[F I could have proved you were forsworn,
The wide, brave brow of you marked with
lies,
There would have risen for me some morn
Of frank forgetting of your blue eyes.
After one night of Hell’s despair
Love would lie slain and buried there.
If I could have known her fingers light
Had made your blood sing as mine have done ;
; The curve and press of her bosom white,
Her blossoming beauties every one,
Could make your heart in its shackles fret
Though I had died I would forget!
But you hold me still, for f do not know ;
I hope and shudder . . . and faint . . . and pray:
“ O ! God, if he loves me, keep him so
For one little night—and one short day.
Whatever waits in the years for me,
Just for to-day, God, let this be ! ”
I would cheat Time with his greedy blade
To win from your mouth that slow caress;
Pay all . . . that the hour might be delayed
When your eyes grow cold and your passion
less,
And from my heart let the red life flow
That I might die —while I did not know !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORRKST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 25, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
We have been treated to weather of a type so
depressing that if it continues the lunatic asylums
will be over-crowded. For weeks the bleak, grey
skies and drizzling showers have made life unen-
durable to every form of animal life, save the
common or egg-depositing duck.
But chill as are the atmospheric conditions,
they are genial alongside the welcome that was
afforded the Dudley lord when he happened in at
the Central station rather after 10 p.m. last
Wednesday. The youthful A.D.Q., repre-
sented the State Government. His authority did
not run to the ordering of the State motor, which
was awaiting the arrival home from a suburban
call of Mrs. Arthur Morgan. Realising that to
trundle his Ex. to the Queensland Club
in a mere cab would be Use majeste, Cap-
tain Foxton besought the State chauffeur
to take the sacred personage in hand ; but that
worthy, with the fear of God in his heart,
stoutly refused to move, and a cab had to
be resorted to in the long run. Other officials
who turned out to shake with vice-regality were
Colonel Lyster, Lieutenant Bowen, Colonel
Chauvel, and Commissioner Thallon. None of
them, much less the Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment, seems to have made the slightest arrange-
ment for the feeding of the tired travellers, and
the final retreat to the Club was only resolved on
when his Ex. announced his resolve to patronise
the coffee-stall. Brother Cyril Ward, Sir A.
•Napier and Mr. Callan were also in a starving
condition; and had the worst happened I have
my doubts whether there would have been enough
hot pies to go round.
When the horrified committee that had our big
ball arrangements in hand discovered that 20
debutantes were to be forced upon it, there was
almost a panic. But by energy and faith much
can be accomplished, and on the night this whirl
of satin and ninon found itself adequately sup-
plied with partners. Heaven knows where they
came from, but they were there.
This city has suffered at odd times from various
species of holy healers, and now a wave of mad-
ness—engendered by a colored person who hails
from Bombay and his ancient she-companion—has
swept over the city. The aged, the halt and the
blind have been flocking to the brace in shoals, but
so far the expected miracles seem to have hung
fire somewhat. There have been many miracle-
workers in Australia, but so far the only miracle
I have heard of was the fact that Thomas Bent;
should ever have been a Premier.
The Hughes lady has arrived to tell us all
about the Dudley nursing scheme, but as yet
nothing new has transpired. The real pull is the
cost, and it remains to be seen how this charity-
ridden State will welcome yet another burden.
I’ve nothing to say against the scheme, which is
a very fine one ; but if every Governor’s wife is
to land us with a new chanty the question arises
—Where will it end? The Governor’s wife goes
away, but we and the charity remain, and we
have to find food for the animal—not only for one,
but for a whole row of animals.
After all, the District Court Judgeship will be
filled pro tem. by barrister W. F. Wilson. His
appointment is for a very brief period; and
indeed the disinclination of the Kidson person to
fill vacancies of any sort seems as strong as ever.
Queensland has its musical hat high in the air
this week, for the elegant musician, Percy Brier,
has received his certificate admitting him as a
Fellow of Trinity College of Music, London. Let
me think ? Isn’t he the very first native-born
Australian to climb that giddy tuneful height?
At any rate, he is the first Queenslander, just as
he was the first of our State to win the travelling
scholarship. Born at North Pine, where the
butter and the boxes come from, he began, in col-
laboration with the family piano, to be a private
nuisance at the early age of 7f. To be,
at 25, organist at St. Mary the Virgin’s, and to
have composed several pieces of church music,
songs and an organ piece, isn’t a bad record.
The engagement I foreshadowed last week
(that of pretty Lattie Cameron and Mr. B. Perry,
one of the Gay Moretons and a son of Mr. and
Mrs. Herbert Perry of this city) is now public
property.
There is also a rumor of a like matter between
one Chadwick, of Undulla station, and a daughter
of Mr. P. R. Gordon, late Government Inspector
of Stock. The bridegroom has a rich and generous
father.
The Woolcock lady gave a hen-tea in honor of
her newly-budded daughter at Rowe’s Winter-
Garden last Monday, and on Thursday Mrs. E. S.
Jackson fed the members of the Weavers’Club.
They attacked the viands after hearkening to
their annual report, which showed that by their
efforts the General Hospital had benefited to the
extent of £133 odd and some 823 pieces of linen.
Lord Plunket, who is paying a sort of angel’s
visit to this State, arrived by mail train on Sun-
day evening, and told a reporter who pursued
him with determination that he could not say
enough for the comfort of the Queensland trains
and the hospitality of the local Department:
He found himself feasted like the proverbial
fighting fowl and packed into the cosiest corners.
He couldn’t understand it, and neither could the
reporter. Later it leaked out that, in response to
a frantic wire from an agitated aide in the south,
private-secretary Musgrave had arranged a series
of feasts—consisting of a morning snack at the
border, lunch at Warwick, dinner at Toowoomba,
and supper at Ipswich. But the train declined
to wait while supper was served, which saved
his Ex. from severe indigestion.
Vice-regal mourning is to be relaxed sufficiently
to allow of the appearance of the clan Macgregor
at the annual ball of the Irish Association.
Another item in high life is that the Kidston
family is moving house to the lately purchased
south-side residence.. The guid wife has been an
inmate of the Mater Hospital for a lengthy period.
Why doesn’t somebody see to it that the birth-
day honors are more fairly distributed ? Here we
are again with Joey Bell and our Chief Justice
left out, while the South African C. J. is made a
baron. It’s not that it matters so much for Joey,
though he would made a presentable duke, but
just think how Mrs. Joey would fill the bill.
The death of Lady Geraldine Chermside, wife
of ex-Governor Chermside, which is announced in
this week’s cables as having taken place in Switzer-
land, recalls that good lady’s pathetic personality.
During her residence here I doubt greatly if any-
one saw her really gay. It may have been
that Sir Herbert’s taste for faultless fact had a
depressing effect upon her, but a none too robust
constitution and the death of her little son added
their quota. A brother, Captain Webb, married
a connection of the Wilsons of Carpentaria
Downs.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“ The Prodigal” : Queensland is no longer
regarded as the Grave of the White Man. Cairns,
with its back country, has probably the finest
atmosphere in Australia, and Rockhampton
(Central Q.) and Charters Towers (Northern Q.)
have a lower mortality rate than Sydney or Mel-
bourne. Delicate Southerners swarm north in the
winter months as far as Thursday Island, and the
one-time alleged Grave is fast becoming the
sanitorium of the Commonwealth. Governor
Macgregor, who should be an authority after his
experiences in the Solomon Island, Papua, New-
foundland and other parts of the globe, declared
at the opening of the Longreach Show that
Queensland has the best climate he ever sampled,
and that the western portion of the State is
equal to any part of the world for consumptive
treatment.


An Income for Life
from a TROPICAL PLANTATION IN WONDERFUL PAPUA.
Chum’s Papua Plantations Limited,
ONE OF THE OLDEST PLANTATIONS in PAPUA.
Rubber, Cocoanuts,
Murva Hemp.
This is a plantation in actual bearing. # r
There are 7000 Cocoanut Trees on the Estate, the majority of which
are over six years old, and in bearing, besides innumerable Rubbei
Trees, from which an immediate income will be derived. I here aie
already growing on the Estate Ceara, Assam and Paia Rubber Fiees
more than five years old, and the remarkable growth of the lattei demonsti ates leyonc
all doubt that Para Rubber is the most suitable foi this distnct. ative a 301 in
Papua is the cheapest in the World. . .
Do you realise the enormous profit to be made from Para Rubber Cultivation .
In Papua Australians have the finest Rubber Growing Country in the \Voi c. .
Millions of pounds are being invested in Papua by English and Foreign Capital-
ists, while Australians, to whom this wonderful country belongs, have had few oppoi-
tunities for investing and sharing in the enormous resources of this country. .
The early Investors in Tropical Countries of the East aie now reaping a 11c
reward. People who invested a few pounds in Rubber Plantations five years ago aie
now worth thousands, and have an income for life from their dividends.
10,000 Shares of Clunn's Papua Plantations, Ltd., have been underwritten, and
the formation of the Company is assured.
The Plantation has a magnificent ocean frontage of over a mile to Milne ay,
also a frontage to the Ramaga River. The whole of the district of Milne ay is
thickly populated, native houses occupying all other water frontages, and there is no
difficulty in securing all the labor necessary.
This Estate contains Freehold and Leasehold Lands, which will amount to 2000 acres and ™' the Estate
Manager’s House, with outbuildings, store rooms, extensive Native Quarters, Hospital et -c ; a lso a garden of 10 acres
planted with food supplies for the Native Laborers, including Yams, Tara, Sweet Potatoes, Tapioca, Bananas, Lor .
etc., thus reducing cost of labor to a minimum. . , _ , ..
QUICK. PROFITS.— SUBSTANTIAL PROFITS should be earned by the c °mpany from the Cul ti-
vatlort of Murva (Bow-string Hemp). This crop has produced 13 tons of fibre per acre per annum,*®n T L^ S
Para Rubber will produce £4OO PER ACRE within a few years of planting, at present prices. This will give you some
idea of the. profit to be derived from Tropical Agriculture. y ...
The Vendor is supplying to the Company 10,000 growing Kubber Trees, one to two years old, and planting will
Clunn’s Papua Plantations, Limited, has a capital of £30,000, divided into 30,000 Shares of the value of £1 each.
20.000 Shares, of which 10,000 have been underwritten by the British-Australasia Investment Company, are now
offered for Public Subscription.
Provisiofial Directors:
WM. SIMPSON, Esq., J.P., “ Etwell,” Marrickville.
W, LAURENCE, Esq., “ Galaha,” Sans Souci.
WALTER L. YOUNGER, Esq., “Wyalla,” Pitt Street, N. Sydney.
J. T. WALL, Esq., Boa Pitt Street, Sydney.
GEO. S. HERNE, Managing Director, Australasia Chambers, City.
Bankers :
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., Sydney.
Auditors:
CHARLES KING AND CO., 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Solicitor :
G. H. TURNER, Norwich Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Brokers :
BRITISH-AUSTRALASIA INVESTMENT COMPANY, Bank of
Australasia Chambers (facing G.P.0.), Sydney.
Company' 1 s Offices :
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
To the Directors, CLUNN'S PAPUA PLANTATIONS, FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
c/o British-Australasia Investment Company, Australasia Chambers, Martin Place, Sydney.
Gentlemen —I enclose herewith the sum of £ being a deposit of five shillings per share on shares
in the above-named Company, and I request you to allot me that number of shares upon the terms of the Company’ s
Prospectus. And I hereby agree to accept the same or any smaller number that may be allotted to me upon the terms of
the said Prospectus, and to pay the further sum of five shillings per share on allotment , two shillings and sixpence pa-
share at three months,, and the balance as required in payments of not more than two shillings and sixpence per share at
intervals of not less than three months. And I authorise you to register me as the holder of the said shares.
Name in full (Mr., Mrs., or Miss)
Address
Occupation or Description Date
Ordinary Signature Exchange should be added to Country or Inter-State Cheques.
Apply for Prospectus with information about Papua and the wonderful profits to be made from Tropical Agriculture to
THE BRITISH-AUSTRALASIA INVESTMENT COMPANY, Bank of Australasia Chambers, Sydney.
WWHJUMiUM'M
yts
if
a
/
'
A


To prevent dry, thin and falling
hair, remove dandruff, allay itch-
ing and irritation and promote the
growth and beauty of the hair,
frequent shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, assisted by occasional dress-
ings with Cuticura, are usually
effective when all other methods
fail. In preserving, purifying and
beautifying the skin, from infancy
to age, these pure, sweet and
gentle emollients have no rivals
worth mentioning.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: Loudon 27
Charterhouse Sq.: Paris. 10, Rue de la Chaussee
d'An tin; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India,
B. K. Paul, Calcutta: China, Hong Kong Drug Co.;
Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Tokio; So. Africa, Lennon,
Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; TJ. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., 133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
83~ 32-page Cuticura Booklet, post-free, tells all
about the Best Care of Skin, Scalp and Hair.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION IN THREE MINUTES
PULCHRIT,
A GENUINE SKIN TONIC, AND SUBSTITUTE FOR
FACE CREAMS and ALL OTHER SKIN SPECIFICS.
(1) Pulciirit is the only powder which produces
amazing' effects after being- washed off. (2) If used
as ordinary powder (dry), lightly rubbed into the skin
it becomes equally invisible. (3) It produces a dazzling,
beautiful skin, and idealises the complexion. (4) It im-
parts to the roughest skin a velvety softness, and pro-
duces that fascinating appearance which is so much
admired. (5) It is indispensable for the culture of the
hand. (6) Instead of clogging the pores it cleanses them
removing all blemishes, such as wrinkles, freckles, red-
ness, yellow skin, pimples, etc. (7) It creates a feeling
of comf >rt and ease by neutralising perspiration ; there-
fore indispensable at balls, theatres, etc. (8) It stands
for health and hygiene of the skin.
Price 45., post free, from the wholesale agent, for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street,
Brisbane, Queensland ; or a sample will be forwarded on
receipt of Is. in stamps or postal note. [2
010
WOMEN
SUFFER More
Than MEN!
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men.
Excess fat takes away a
a Woman’s loveliness—
gives her an ugly, ungainly appearance, im-
pedes her gait, interferes with her maternal
instincts, injures her general health and
makes life a burden, rather than a pleasure.
“Fatcure”
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable, non-poisonous and harmless.
The fat, once reduced, does not return.
“Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe and
harmless treatment for Obesity. Send 2d.
stamp for FREE TRIAL Sample and full
particulars, or call if convenient. 9 till 5.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE So'rf by Ail Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXA TINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
■ t
PEED
“FLITE
TYRES
That this is so was proved
last season in every race of
importance. See that your
machine is fitted with
CLASS*
FLUE TYRES.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
and ALL STATES.
LEEMING’S for
Ladies’ Footwear
of STYLE and QUALITY.
V DERBY SHOE,
PRICE, 16/6
The Shoe illustrated is one of the latest models—
can he had with either pump or welted sole—just
the Shoe for Winter Wear. PRICE 16'6
Postage.in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra..
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
LEE MING’S Boot Stores,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne: 257-259 Bourke
St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St., Prahran : 1 & 3
Errol St., North Melbourne.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion— prolects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
dfg
df
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/ The Bunch,
/ Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Kote.
Catalogue Free.
SYHLLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Corne- Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY: also at
Corner of Bcur .e and Swansto.i Sts., MELCOURNE
! Mem ion The Bulletin.] ' [3
M
forces ernwtll °f moustache and
u tuskers. Bottles, 25., post tree.
American loi.et Agency. Bex 466 G.P.O, Melbourne
LINSEED COMPOUND”
C.ilils. Relieves Asthma and difficult
f
for Coughs and
breathing-.
U.S.PA^
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFIN6
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
385-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Sg v&M
I r '%■
SMiaaiagi
V
F.WOIFF4SOHN
<5
kVi
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
F.Wolff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE j
BERLIN * LONDON
Cbtainabe from
all the
leading establishments.
A Splendid
Phonograph Offer
The possession of nn Edison Phono-
graph during the long winter even-
ings will help to pass away many
pleasant hours, and to keep the
family circle intact, when otherwise
the younger members may be oeeking
entertainment elsewhere."
You can purchase an Edison Gem
Combination Phonograph (which
plays both Four-minute and Two-
minute Records) complete with six
Amberol (Four-minute) Records and
four Standard (Two-minute)
Records for the small
sum of
Any Edison dealer will
supply you, and yon can
have your own choice of
£4
Records from the thousands included
in our lists.
Write for catalogue and lists of
Edison Phonographs and Records.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
“Ted”: He was leaning: against a post in the vicinity
rninnf 8 Theat « e ’ M * lbou, ' ne - “ D’.ve know what’s the
rtun of main a fine actor, my boy ? ” said he. “ Modestv.
Yes, modesty. Now, Xam the finest artist in my line iii
Australia. 1 am, by G . What keeps me down and
practically out ? Modesty. You grin. See here. I put
Pnin r . cnia . lkab '- v thoughtful and vivid interpretation of
Polomus, in Hamlet. Whose pictures do you see in all
the papers? Blanks. Blank, the unenlightened cow who
blunders through as the Prince of Denmark, sees his
insignificant face smothering a hundred pages. Ido a
strikingly human thing as an old villager in ‘The Silver
King. Whom do the papers rave about? Dish, a con-
ceUed prig, whose Wilfred Denver is a cross between any
assumed idiot and a corn doctor. It has been the same
throughout my career, sir. Modesty has damned me.”
“Edyson ” : lie the University Dramatic Club’s pro-
duction of Galsworthy’s “The Silver Box” at Melbourne
I rincess s, there s more than a ray of hope for lovers of
plays in the histnomc ambitions of our University ama-
l eu « S - f ,^ he olub ha ? a leaven of talent, and aims to place
stuff of literary quality that is the scoff of the dominant
business man in Private Enterprise theatres. The poor
pla.i ers from the big schoolhouse have a grip on a lai-o-e
society following, which makes the financial aspect less
bedraggled than it appears in most ventures of the sort.
“ lb ; 2 - 4 ”i Wat fu hingr ? ere > 7 at vvork . at Her Majesty’s
(Sidney), the other night I seemed to glimpse as
lifeoTp O • f ] ark , ly ’ the '' eason for the success in
life of George Reid In appearance, Reid and Percy are
of course, unlike, but their methods are much the same’.
1 ercy lacks Reid s immense girth and absurd face. He
makes up for it by wearing maroon-colored clothes of a
fantastic cut, and a, yellow waistcoat. The hungry not to
say famished, appeal which Percy makes for the merri-
ment of his audience is amazingly suggestive of Reid at a
public meeting- or banquet. Some humorists achieve
their end with little apparent effort. Not so the brace
under consideration. They demand hilarity at the point
of tbe . axe > 80 Gvspeuk. I don’t like to think what
would happen to Reid if—having manipulated his eve-
glass, contorted his face, extended his waistband to'its
utmost, and in his queer Cockney treble confided to the
mob some horrid detail about his anatomy—there were
to follow a chill silence. As to Percy, I am sure
that if ever the day comes when he will leap
volently about the stage and grimace to no purpose he
will burst into tears and then fall on the point of his own
umbrella and Here is an extract from Reid’s speech
(4/5/10)*— h ' nX C~b aS reported b 3’ Kondon Daily Mail
Wh y do 1 S' o t0 „ al! tbese dinn €rs ? Whv do I risk mv
Aus'tra'lia S ” manner ? To advertise tbe Commonwealth'of
Percy with appropriate face and body spasms, would
have brought down the club-house with that ga«-. Con-
sider the people who are convulsed at Percv Thev are
the identical idiots who stamp and howl when G. Reid is
being publicly facetious. In my opinion, with a little
training in the art. of heavy feeding, Percy would make
as useful a High Commissioner as Australia has known.
“Singemoine”: The entente between Church and
Stage grows closer daily. According to the American
papeis. Rev. Ed Davis, a U.S. Metholean parson, ren-
dered desp rate by the sparse attendances at his kirk
recently evolved some bright, new plans to force the
multitude to hearken to the Word. Noting-a scarcity of
theatrical artists in his congregation, he offered his'ser-
vices as a comedian to a variety show. Every week nhdit
he canie on and did a knockabout turn in check trousers
and red whiskers. Between the turns he rounded up the
chorus girls stage hands, etc., and preached to them.
On a recent Sabbath he paralysed his flock by expound-
ing the Gospel to them in the scarlet tights, feathered
cap, etc., of a stage Mephistopheles. “People will
always listen to the Devil,” he explained. Here in
Sydney, Count Hannibal”—which gave one aspect of
an old-fnne Carthlick-Prodistant unpleasantness—has
ju-t made way for “Henry of Navarre,” which deals with
another aspect of the same trouble. And when “ Pete ”
which is chock full of Scripture, departs from the On-
tenon, Matheson Lang stars as the Lord in Jerome’s
“Passing of the Third Floor Back.”
“ Bloggs ” | When is it going to lie made a criminal
offence for any theatrical manager to put up a “ standing-
room only” notice outside his theatre? There are nights
—Saturdays and holidays mostly—when the dullest show
attracts a crowd in this amiisement-lovino- land On
snob occasions, the number of folks admitted is limited
only by ( the 'holding-capacity of the four walls of the
building, ‘Serious” drummer and mere flickergraph
shows are on a par in this regard. I have fought my
way out of an up-country moving picture entertainment
where frantically-interested bucolics stood on boxes’ at
the back of the hall, every inch of available .space
between them and the screen being occupied. At
Sydney Royal, for the first night of “The Third
Degree,” the gangway near mv seat in the D C
was stocked with humans, as was the back of the
circle. The |)lay wasn t good enough to compensate for
the atmosphere, and I left in a hurrv. We haven’t had
a holocaust by fire,.after the American plan, in an Aus-
tralian theatre yet. The,fact is attributable tnerelv to
luck. Few of the elements for a swift, comprehensive
burning are lacking. When a conflagration smites cer-
tain Sydney and Meibourfie playhouses I wot of, the
stout Hebrew “first-nighter” in the circle will perish iri
a common pyre with Billo and his voting woman in the 5
packed gallery above. In fact, the cinder of Billo and
his girl will fall from the sky on the burning financier -
WOWSERS WANTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
u , i as 1 ' von »o advertisement from the
' ° m S - T, elr l°" d disapprobation would have been
/Sto£."WW. treasury. Bulletin "Sundry
Ir wa8 a " allc ' e,| t manager ; he said—’tween drinks, said
' 1 comedee- Id "' ake a fort,lne ' viUl that Frenchy
Instead I made a ‘ liloomer,’ and I lost nigh every cent—
1 SW S l ; at 8how " aS boillld t0 ‘ S' 0 .’ and—woe is me—it
A bit thick !’ said the first-night house; ‘ spicy and
somewhat gav,’
Tl ' e d'a' 1 - 03 al ’ Cr ‘ e<i ‘ Naughty ! ’ in their notices next
I chortled as I thought: ’Twill get the Puritans
amused—
I reckoned on the wowsers, but the wowsers never
vvowsed.
“ Our audiences afterwards took up but little room,
And those who came were not much shocked. I waited
for the boom.
' 0 ‘'piece" a "°" Sr "°' l,d arise >’ I prayed, ‘ to say the
Is dreadfully immoral,’ and ask ‘ Where are the police?’
" eie ReUi de sperate; the night’s receipts,
Were scarce enough, between ourselves, to pay the
blooming g is 1 > r j
"^c'ast 16 n '* rllC ' n tIle 8tal,s 1 (,a "’> as round the house I
come a°t hsiT end Rent- in blaclc - lor >g looked for,
“ 1 'the°8lmw him aM U,e e ' ening ’ J ' es ’ 1,e sat a11 through
Th °vfle and'low 1^" 6 " (P ' aise be !) he thou ” ht ifc " icked .
EaC wows k ers 1 can ; CaU8ed him (I thou * ht > to sc °"' a8
Each situation made him (so I hoped) a wrathful man.
“ T minister- fe "’ 1 followed him-that outraged
Unto the exit door, where stood my business manager ;
Tlie reverend gent, unto him spoke with evident delight,
‘ A play ! I m coming in again to-morrow
“ PU com°edee "'°' VKers > si ”- They killed my
If ’ "they rLr e ’ U,e - V Kke Ule 8h0 "-« ba t good are
When next (if ever) I a play produce I beg to state
t will not be a risky piece—the risk is much too great !”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TORNER.


Shipping:.
LUND’S BLUE_ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
g
♦ Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
OAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10b.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklbournk Aornts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adri.aidk & Frkmanti.k Agrnts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA. E. N GLAN D.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial IDutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
F °R
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hf.ao Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chikf Offick for Nf.w South Wauf.s :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Robkrts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Brock Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors :
R. M. Phillips, Esq., J.P.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
D. W. Watkins, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day. F.T. a.
Ilead Office :
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Apency Staff lor reliable and trustworthy men. i
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Dirkctors— Svdney: J. Campbrll-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, ILL.A. ;E. Owbn Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write,for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
EXECUTORS
THE TRUSTEES,
A AND
AGENCY COMPAN - LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (In vested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36.000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman .
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esc., M.A., Li,.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it. can be olitained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pit.
Street, Sydney, Sole Atlanta for Australia.
“LINSEED COMPOUND”— Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
Shipping;.
N ord
D eutscher
L
loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
sdfg
Unsurpassed Seag’oinpr Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnasre, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Ajrents,
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
7 Bridgre-street, Sydney.
Tel. 698.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)eui Z ea l ani *.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
£750,581 0 .0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. r ~
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr. :,E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
dsf
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUE VIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 6.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 3.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIO to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £-4 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 34 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€H LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
g
•Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD.. Agents in Australia.
fdg
WINTER TOURS <
to Papua and the Pac.fic Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns £2O
June 24, Aug. 12 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands £2O
July 29, Sept. 9 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) ... £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.— INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to ,£25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
CONGO
DAMP
COURSE
GRQUHD
LCVtt
5-PLY
PROOFING
A RAMPART AGAINST DAMPNESS
Congo Damp Course gives perfect underground protection on foundations and cellar
floors against dampness and vermin in the soil. This material is very tohgh, with suf-
ficient elasticity to prevent its being punctured by the roughness of ordinary masonry
surfaces. Dampness cannot pass through it, and the inner walls and floors thus pro-
tected will be dry. Ihe antiseptic nature of the saturation in Congo Damp Course
effectually prevents damage by ants and other underground vermin. Lime in mortar
has no chemical effect on it. Made in seven convenient widths. Skilled labor not re-
quired. Sample on request.
CONGO ROOFING (S-ply grade) comes ready to lay without special skilled labor and
can be trusted to give perfect protection for upwards of 10 years. Sample free on request.
C. C. DELMAR, Box 1740, C.P.0., Sydney, N 3.W., Australasian Representative frr
“ CONGO.” NOYES BROS., Sydney & Mel nut ne : MILLARS’ KARRI & JARRAH CO.
LTD., Perth ; HARROLD COLTON & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
STEVENS RIFLES
“ BULL’S-EYE KIND”
More Records hold than all other makes combined!
E. W. Fielding recently won the Tanunda, South Australia,
Kingship (a notable Rifle Tournament) for the second
successive time. Total of 148 out of a possible 156 points
under most unfavorable weather conditions.
Write for Catalogue to
Ask your Dealer and
insist on STEVENS.
There are no sub-
stitutes.
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telespope ar* ci
Stevens - Pope Catr -
logues. [i
Shipping. —,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to an,l from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports#
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, July 1.
(Melbourne only.)
S.S. Kanowna, July 23.
S.S. Bullarra (from Fre-
mantle), July 27, calling
at all N.-West Ports to
Derby.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Gran tala, July 2.
S.S. Yongala, July 9.
Best and Cheapest Route to GoltffleMs,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on al
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Asrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
TH E ALL-RE D RO UT B.
♦
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
sdf
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fit ted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* New Steamer.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 (Jeorge-street, Sydney.
F.— H.—s.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
Fox* London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “DORSET,”
11,400 Tons. VV. L. Prentice, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 13th July
„ „ MELBOURNE „ 16th, July
„ „ ~ ADELAIDE „ 19th July
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied .with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
l’ £49 10s ' £l3 13s ' £tslss> 1:17 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON, England.
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
of Parliament.
A tbp,roughly .comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Sinj.de bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
front 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request
GEO. J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St , London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable ind Healthy Locality.
EORGE HOTEJ.,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria,


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Bright Musical Comedy,
THE DOLLAR PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MLJSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE fe CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
EVERY EVENING.
THE OF THE THIRD
FLOOR BACK.
MATHESON LANG as THE STRANGER.
HUTIN BRITTON as THE SLAVEY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee & Manager : .1. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Emphatic Success of MR. JULIUS KNIGHT,
MISS KATHERINE GREY,
and A BRILLIANT SUPPORTING COMPANY,
in the Romantic Drama,
HENRY OF NAVARRE.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE WINTER HOME of the Popular and Unrivalled
W E ST’S PICTU nE S,
Managing Director : T. J. Wrst.
WEST’S PICTURES Stand Alone Superior to
All Others, and are “The Window of the World.”
6d. to 2/- People's Popular Pricks (id. to 2/-
Owing to Limited Capacity, Seats should be secured
at Nicholson's.
JH E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY.
MATINEE at 2.30. EVENINGS AT 8.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
PICTURES.
SPENCER IS SYNONOMOUS WITH SUPREMACY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s, 2/6.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY’S MATINEE.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM;
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY
10 to 12 Noon ; 3 to 5 p.m. ; 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHILDREN —Admission Morning and Afternoon Only, Is.
Saturday Morning Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season Tickets will be sent on Application.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
LIEUT. FRANK TRAVIS, the Tramp Ventriloquist.
MARJORIE DEAN, Burlesque Actress and Danseuse.
CHARLENE and CHARLENE, Comedy Juggler and
Lady Xylophone Expert.
LILLIE LANGTRY, Comedienne.
MENDEL, The Wonderful Blind Pianist.
BILLY WILLIAMS, Laughter-Making Comedian.
GODFREY JAMES, Welsh Vocalist.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
KREMO FAMILY, World’s Greatest Risley Performers.
OLIVE LENTON and her Eight Singers and Dancers.
THE FALCONS, COMEDY Acrobats.
RAYMOND TRIO.
VAUDE and VERNE, Comedians.
ALBURTUS and MILLAR, Eccentric Comedian and
Lady Cornetist.
Plan at Allan’s. ,T2T PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co. in
THE SAILOR’S WEDDING.
The action of the play takes place in the lovely
district surrounding Naples, and each of the
scenes will be of exceptional beauty.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 2,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
T U E ORCHID,
A QUEEN AMONG GAIETY SUCCESSES.
Cast includes Florence Young, Fanny Dango, Andrew
Higginson, Bertie Wright, Langford Kirby, Florence Vie.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
M EL BO URN E.
JHEATRE ROYAL,
FOR A FKW MORE NIGHTS ONLY.
OSCAR ASCHE—LILY BRAYTON
CO.
IN SHAKSPEARE’S COMEDY,
THE MERRY WIVES of WINDSOR.
RI..CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees : Rupert. Clarke and Clyde Mevnell.
SATURDAY, JULY 2, and for THREE WEEKS only,
Rupert Clarke and Clyde Meynell introduce
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S ENGLISH COMEDY CO.
in R. C. Carton’s Famous Farce, in Three Acts,
MR. PREEDY AND THE COUNTESS.
Universally eulogised by the London Press, and
ap’tlv termed by the Daily Mail,
“A PERFECT MAELSTROM OF MIRTH.”
Prices—s/-, 3/- and 1/- Box Plan at Allan’s.
J. B. Montrie, Business Manager.
Athenaeum hall. Melbourne.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
\At E ST'S PALACE, MELBOU RN E.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, T1)B 15EST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiie World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—(id. to 2s, Box Plan at Glen's.
| C E SKATING.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM
EVERY
AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
Wl RTMSOLYMPIA.
. EVERY EVENING AT 8
M ATI MEtS -WEDNtSDAYS. SATURDAYS AMD HOLIDAYS AT 2 -30.
C PENCER'SIiTtATRKCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
SIRE SUPERIOR. TO PLL OTHERS.
Popular Prices ->»- Plan as U6Ual-i>
F
R E E—F R E E—F R
HINTS to SHOOTERS by Donald Mackintosh
(of Shooting: fame) also Price List of Guns, Rifles
Revolvers, etc., handsomely illustrated It con-
tains valuable information. Send name and
address and it will be sent FREE by return post.
Donald Mackintosh. 400 Bourke St. Melbourne
X
Leads you Into danger!
Then why not use
WILSON'S “COMMON
SENSE” EAR DROMS?
They relieve Deaf-
ness and Head Noises,
and are invisible and
comfortable in use.
Particulars free, or
order at once, send-
ing £1 for outfit, and
full directions post-
paid, by return mail
Sole Agents:
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229 Collins Street. Melbourne,
BRANDT DE LUXE.
THE LATEST ACETYLENE BURNER,
THE BRANDT DE LUXE
Gives the most light and the least trouble. No metal
arms to warp, only the best lava used in the manufac-
ture. Solid hexagon base, will not crush when screwed
on with pliers.
Send us 10/= and we will forward SAMPLE
PARCEL OF ASSORTED BURNERS.
Booklets on Air Gas and Acetylene Gratis.
BRANDT BROS.’ LAMP HOUSE,
197-199 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; and 236 Pitt St., Sydney.
YOUR RAZOR!
You want your Razor to glide smoothly over
your face—to cur. clean and keep right on
doing it. The Razor that does it best is
THE PLUM —every time.
PRICE
10/6
POST
FREE.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong- Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6,
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG $ AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
&
ft
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161KINC ST., SYDNEY, between Elizabetli &Castleieagh Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Fringes, from 7s. 6d.
TRY OUR GLORIA HAIR TONIC. " COMBINGS MADE UP.
Telephone 2138 Central. Country Orders Promptly Attended To.
gd
Zaw Points
£>*• inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing 1 your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patents
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cc/dially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLIN AN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings. Collins Street, Melbourne.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S 1
tree Witches
CIGARETTES
em/n
10
6° for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
AMUSING AND AMAZING
MU-FACE MASKS
No. 8. MASK ON.
Quite
Novel
Only
Bd.
posted
Slip on and off in
an Instant
, NO END OF
.. FUN . .
PUZZLE YOUR FRIENDS.
Absolutely Unrecognisable
'T'HE Nn-Face Masks are quite
different from anything you
have ever seen. They fit
closely over the face,* and
can be put on or off in an
instant. The shape of your
face is unchanged, but the
expression is altered be-
yond recognition. This is
what puzzles every-
body. You can have lots
No. S. MASK OFF.
of fun. There are* the
following Full Masks:
—l, The Smiler ; 2,
Grandma; 3, The Geisha
Girl; 4, The Motor Man ;
5, Pious Pete ; 6, Jolly
Masher ; 7, Doleful Dan;
8, Country Cousin ; 9,
Dads Way back ; 10, Uncle
John ; 11, Mandarin ; 12,
Hoogenheimer ; and (13) a
Ghastly Skull ; also the
following Half Masksl4. Bung-Eye Bill ; 15, Weeping
Walter ; 16, The Majah ; 17. Motor Maniac ; 18, Simperer ; 19,
Squinting Simon ; 20, Prayprful Paul ; 21. Sambo ; 22. Jolly
Jenkin ; 23, Chinkie ; 24, Old Happy : 25, Champngne Charlie ;
26. The Colonel ; 27, Beerv Bob ; 28.' The Owl ; 29, Battered
Battler ; 30. Boozekin ; 31, Netrro ; 32. Hairy Harry ; 33, The
D ah Boy ; 34, Maiden Aunt ; 35. Irish Molly O ; 36, Huntress;
37, Wise Judge ; 38, Weary Willie ; 39, Littl* Jap ; 40, Old
Hick ; 41, Lovely Mrs. Nick ; 42. Black Jack ; 43, Black Jill :
44, Maid ; 45. Highland Soldier ; 46, Pasha ; 47, , Spanish
Beauty ;• 48, Beau Brummel ; 49,Ladye Pa ire ; 50, Jeanotte ;
51, Jennot ; 52, Mdlle. Pom Pom : 53. Rubv Sweetlips. Use
nurpbers when Otidering. PRICES: One Mask for EIGHT
PENCE, Three for Is. 9d., Six for 35., Twelve for 6s 6d. ; we
pay carriage. Each mask is lifelike. Obtainable only from
THE < TXIOX COMPAXY
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
f
&1U
* ? /a
wmm
RhnaMjfcr -> >w< ~w.
<■«*
fc=
v ■-
The FALKINER'BOLL
PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINE C°
Our ...
Elecflric
Shearing' Machines
INCLUDING THE LATEST INVENTION,
The Four and Six Stand Portable Shearing and Cnitchiivg Plant,
WILL BE SHOWN UNDER WORKING CONDITIONS at the
New South Wales Sheep-Breeders’ Association Show,
in SYDNEY, 29th, 30th JUNE.
ALSO AT OUR AGENTS’ PREMISES AS FOLLOW
South Australia—H. C. Richards, 6& 8 Blyth St., Adelaide. Queensland—Ruthning Electrical Installation Co. Ltd.
Tasmania—A. E. Evershed, George St., Launceston. New Zealand —R. P. M. Manning, Hereford St., Christchurch.
West Australia—J. H. Noble, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Representative in Sydney—G. W. Hellicar, Lombard Chambers, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HEAD OFFICE MELBOURNE, 103 and 105 WILLIAM STREET.


“The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” —The “Stockport
Remedy ” for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
*
FOOD
is soothing and satisfying. It contains all the elements
of a natural food in a condition suitable for immediate
absorption.
When milk alone is heavy and unsatisfying, Benger’s Food
made with milk, is appetising and nutritive.
Benger’s Food should be used for healthy development in
infancy, for rebuilding strength in weakened systems, and for the
preservation of old age in usefulness and vigour.
For INFANTS , INVALIDS , AND THE AGED .
The British Medical Journal says Benger’s Food has, by its excellence , established a reputation of its own.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Bender's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere. 832
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers! Confectioners !
Make your own AERATED WATERS
fg
Price, £lB
and up.
Cash or Terms.
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL
99
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to othtß<s. and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ECKERSLEY g SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
] Queensland Agents :
ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane. _
fdsg
fsd
g
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent;
injury; Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
w ate h men, and
others. Can be
charged with- water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, relia.ble and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX.* Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, justi
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
fdg
OF THE.
20^rr«i2
Cl
No. 73.
‘ Attach to, the
eye in the Sarhe
manner asj;fche
common matr-
'nifying lens,in
use by watch
repairers,beths
careful to tul'n
t'ne small open-
ing in sijpare
tube to the
outside, feat
is, ‘away from
the nose... When
placed to the eye you can see what is taking- place
behind and in front of you at the same time. No
need to wish for eyes in the back of your head, as
with thi3 article you can observe all that occurs in
that direction without even turning- your head. You
will find lots of fun in owning a Sebackroscope.
Made of hard-rubber, and finished in an excellent
manner. Price, securely packed and posted to any
address free on receipt of 1/-
“ PICKITOUT.” A perfect Puzzler
to the uninitiated. JUST OUT.
The Effect—Three cards are shown
—the ace, deuce and three of
hearts. Someone is requestedito
pick out the ace when the cards
are placed on the table. But it is
absolutely impossible to pick it
out. Price complete, with full in-
structions, 7d. post free anywhere.
df
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market , SYDNEYj.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarkef Post Office.'
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney. ’
2 Branch : lit King Street, between George and Pitt StreetSi Sygngy,
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED.--
Wool Store's: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in theinterestsof their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
A
m
m
0.0
lueurWT^
btU
‘Minin'oiic*
A little of
Old
qrknev
tbe Real Liqueur Scotch,
is better tban a lot of an
inferior wbisKy. Our en-
tire output is reserved for
tbis, our own brand,wbicb
we guarantee for its qua-
lity, age, and flavour.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, andallthß Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1 s 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, ill us., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Gd. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests.for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
: (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posced.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil EnG. Handbook, ns. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is Gd.
gd
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, *sc- f with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is- 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d., Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for-all Games), lsi ! How to;
Mesmerise, Is'3d. Man-From Snowy River; 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, is posted. Parlor Magic,, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases. Is 3cP posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, .is 3d posted." Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is, posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and, portraits, !#;• post
Is 2d. Electricity Made! Simple (new), 4s Gd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Homan
Nature as exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that Occur to the minds of young and Old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician., Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riilge, which makes it a superior guide tq the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future,' and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The "hew 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete,' unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will fye posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. , Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDoilgall Topped the Score; &
Other Verses, Is 3<d. The Oay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 3d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted,' Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron' of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and piany
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d..
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t toe fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ' "■ 'Kstablished 25 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
O
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Oi,d Bupii Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is, Champions of the King,
Is 2d. ’ Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(J as. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cuevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar- !
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of. Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1010 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
“ Sheep-dip s ” warm tale :
The old Police Magistrate told me the story in the
smoking room. Twenty-five or 30 years ago he was
stationed in country lying south of Port Darwin, where
the blacks were very troublesome. On. one occasion the
usual trouble —or the trouble that was usual in those
days—arose, and ended in a surveyor, who had taken a
lubra, losing his life per medium of a spear. Two niggers
were subsequently rounded up by the police and taken
to Port Darwin, where they were acquitted of the charge
of murder on a doubt as to identification. The same
police party was ordered to escort the pair back
to their own tribe. Midway 7 on the journey 7 they
stopped one night with an old Scotch storekeeper,
and the whisky bottle was spun to a late hour.
Old Mac was, of course, told how the nigs had
escaped the Sudden Drop, and it was his idea that there
should be no mistake about the pair in future. Nobody
objecting, except the niggers, he put his cattle-brand
(O.T. with a broad arrow pointing skyward through the
two letters) on their backs. But the more extraordinary
part was to follow. In the morning a couple of strays
from a blackfellows’ camp in the vicinity 7 carried home the
news of two strangers at the store, with unknown tribal
marks on their bodies. Forthwith all hands went to have
a look at the visitors, and learned that the white men had
conferred these decorations. In five minutes old Mac was
besieged with demands for similar honor. The branding
irons were heated up again, and for the next three
quarters of an hour Mac sat on a kerosene case beside the
fire, frying his sign of O.T. and the broad arrow oh along
procession of godless heathen. It was a heavy job, and
when it was finished the smell of sizzled blackfellow was
over all the land.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
K6e LEADING
HOUSE FOR.
CANT
B
BEAT
6'porting Goods
Fishing TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
ANGLERS!
The Australasian Fishing Tackle Catalogue
IS NOW READY.
By far the Largest and Most Comprehensive Fishing Tackle
Catalogue ever published in the Southern Hemisphere.
Full of interest from first page to last.
Every disciple of Walton should possess it,
We know that YOU would like a copy.
CALL OR WRITE for one—GRATIS AND POST FREE
... FROM ...
MicK Simmons,
“THE Fishing Tackle
House of Australasia,”
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
li
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
msii\
nr cOC -
ikH
' illl
rr
xc
'gffi
EMC
■
B
7®
= . -"V\ •
='=^yt«
"\|®i
sax*'
!#s£■..
j&W?
Miff
&> " "TIIIIS
:=-c
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your sp ere time by studying at home some
of the following subjects
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “S” and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors), hublic Service. Sanitary
Inspectors', or any other examination.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and overate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing 1
Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A. Sole Distributing Apents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co.. Liverpool.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
Ts just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music.and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell'Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30/“, Post Free.
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 15/*, Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
27S Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
g;> sz.
surgeon
WML
LE
□
'O
■m
PILLS.
drives many men and women to a mistaken dietary regime,
and—chronic dyspepsia. It is the greatest mistake in the world!
Anybody who knows the supreme corrective value of Cockle’s Pills
can enjoy all the rational pleasures of the table with impunity. Cockle’s
Pills thoroughly purify, regulate, and strengthen the digestive system.
They ensure natural functional activity. Physicians have recognised
this for the last century.
Prompt Relief
I (rom Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
S- JACOBS
Sold everywhere.
fg
removes soil, stains, spots, scratches,
greasy finger-marks. Brings out the
natural finish of the wood beneath a bright
lasting lustre. Not a varnish, not a paint,
but an oil compound free from grease, acid
or odor. Won’t gum—collect dust, or soil
the clothes. Helps any furniture.
Write for free sanfple to
REID&REID (Dept, A ), Australasian
Wellington, New Zealand.
Ladies’ and Gent’s Watches FREE.
S'
f
Test your Size.
Send us your Number.
N? 2
N? 3
Solid Sterling Silver
Rings FREE
seas
©ns©
111 SS3B
D &\\ IP
IF THEY FIT YOU.
They are not made p of brass, tin or white metal, but are
Guaranteed to bai PURE STERLING SILVER through*
out, STAMPED and WARRANTED, and are sold retail
from 2s 6d to 4s 6d at all jewellers. THESE RINGS ARE
FREE IF THEY FIT YOU.
Sss*K
MOTHER
HOW TO WIN ONE.
Cut out the inside of the Kings marked No. 1, N 0.2, and
No. 3, and try on any finger of either hand, forward us
the number of the one that fits your finger, and we will
immediately forward one of these SOLID SILVER KINGS
W/yMn'J*
KIA-ORA
FREE. With the ring we will send you also FREE 12 of our NAME or MOTTO BROOCHES (as illustrated)for
Distribution Among Your Friends. These Brooches, which are very strongly made (acid proof), and unique in
design, are sold Sydney Price 2s. each, and WE GUARANTEE THEM to be the BEST VALUE IN BROOCHES
EVER PLACED ON THE MARKET.
All We Require You to Do
is to place these Brooches among your friends and collect Is. from
each. Return us the 12s. collected, and We Will Send You FREE
A RELIABLE WATCH and CHAIN (Lady’s or Gent’s)
OR ANY OTHER PRESENT FROM OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST which we will send with the Brooches.
Remember, We Require No Money
in advance. Simply send us your Name and Full
Address, and we will send the Solid Silver Ring
and the 12 Brooches by return mail, postage paid, at our own expense. We know you will HAVE NO TROUBLE
in SELLING THESE BROOCHES, owing to their Excellent Value, or we would not go to the expense of sending
them. We send them out at our own risk, and if you are unahle to sell the 12 we will reward you according
to the number disposed of by you upon you returning us the balance unsold.
All letters must be
addressed direct to
the Sole Manufac-
turers,
Jewellery Supply Co.
Pitt-st, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.


o * *
fa.
f Yi
iR
Mo
tnslai\d
A Busy Housewife’s Terrible
Suffering Ended.
“I was a most terrible sufferer from con-
stipation,” says Mrs. Or. England, of No. 1
Avon Place, off Haines Street, North Mel-
bourne, “ which brought on severe headaches
and torturing indigestion, and I owe my
deepest gratitude to that grand family
medicine, Bile Beans, for my wonderful
recovery.
“ I was so bound up with constipation that
and they
treated me there with various medicines,
but failed to give me any relief.
“ The indigestion inflicted terrible tortures.
The pains in my chest were awful, and a sensa-
tion as of a large lump would settle there and
make life really a perfect burden. Then I would
get a short, sharp pain in the left side, like a stab
from a knife, the suddenness of which would make
me gasp. Violent headaches used to nearly rack
my head to pieces, and I lost my appetite com-
pletely, and became very thin.
“It was at this time that my attention was directed
to Bile Beans. My mother had some time since
used this splendid medicine for her complaints, and the thorough and
perfect manner in which they cured her we regarded as really marvellous;
so I thought I could not do better than adopt my mother’s remedy and try
Bile Beans. I did so, and have been richly rewarded for the trouble, for
Bile Beans at once broke down the constipation and regulated the bowels ;
removed the pains in the chest; the heavy, distressing feeling, as from a
weight, disappeared ; the dizziness, to which I was previously a great
victim, ceased to prostrate me ; and my appetite began to return. It was
simply wonderful the relief Bile Beans gave me, and, persevering with
them, the unpleasant and painful symptoms gradually died away, and I
began to feel my health rapidly returning. After undergoing a full and
thorough course of Bile Beans I was completely cured of the constipation,
indigestion and headaches, and able to eat and enjoy my meals as of old.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
n
FOR
Bile Beans are a
natural and proved
remedy for indiges-
tion, biliousness, liver
trouble, constipation,
flatulence, stomach
disorders, bad breath,
piles, colds, rheu-
matism, liver chill, in-
fluenza, general de-
bility, loss of energy,
anaemia, lack of am-
bition and ail female
ailments. Of all chem-
ists and stores at 1/1J
and 2/9 per box.
ONE BEAN—ONE DOSE.
Beauty’s Favourite.,
THe article wHicH excels all otHers
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite# This has been tbe
acknowledged & and Honoured
position Held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years# It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of tHose special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tHe
skin# No other soap possesses
these qualifies in sucH a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion^
The Chase of Ages.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIGHT of my lives ! Is the time not yet?
Lo, I’ve brooded on a star
Through many a year, with the hope held
dear
That, in some future far,
I would know the joy of a love returned.
Are my lives lived vainly, all ?
Since that cosmic morn when life, new-born,
First moved on this mundane ball ?
Yea, I mind it yet, when first we met
On a tertiary rock,
How the graceful charm of your rudiments
Imparted love’s first shock.
But I was a mere organic cell
In that early eocene,
While you were a prim, primordial germ,
And the mother of protogene.
So I loved and died, and the ages sped
Till the time of my second birth ;
When I took my place in the cosmic race,
And again came down to earth.
Once more we met. Ah, love, not yet!
You were far above my state !
For how could I raise my mollusc gaze
To a virtuous vertebrate ?
Again we died, and again we slept,
And again we came to be —
1 as an anthropoidal ape,
And you as a chimpanzee.
You as a charming chimpanzee,
With a high, patrician air ;
And I watched you waltz from tree to tree
As I slunk in my lowly lair.
And yet again, in an age or so,
We met, and I mind the sob
I sobbed when I found that I was what?
And you were a thingumbob.
You had sold your tail for a kind of soul,
You had grown two thumbs beside ;
And I knew again that my love was vain,
So I went to the woods and died.
As a humble homunculus, later on,
I crepe fo your cave at night,
And howled long, love-lorn howls in vain
To my lady troglodyte.
And I insane at your cold disdain,
And nr? howlings tilled the place,
Till your lather sought me out one night,
And—again I yearned in space.
Then, light of my lives ! Is the time not yet?
Say, in yliat distant life—
In what dun age that is still to come
May I win and call you wife ?
Still high above ! My love, my love !
Nay, how can I raise my eyes
To you, mv star of the eocene,
My e’er tlusive prize?
Lo, Time speeds on, and the suns grow cold.
And the iartli infirm and hoar,
And, ages wist, we are here at last—
Ay, both in the earth once more.
But, alas, dair heart, as far apart
As e’er in his cosmic whirl ;
For I’m but a lowly writer-man
And you are a tea-room girl.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
The Tender Passion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PETER’S ideas about the use of girls were
very vigue till he was moved into the
upper jfth. Here, with a whole row of
them behind him, he began to pay
them a certah perturbed attention. They
appeared on hs vision for the first time, as it
were, life-size. 1
The particulansmall girl who absorbed Peter’s
attention sat immediately behind him. This was
doubtless the primary cause of her selection. She
had certain otter distinctions, of course—a
valuable tin pencil-case, and long golden hair,
and black stockings, and an atmosphere of clean
linen. Intimacy progressed slowly. There was
no established pecedent for this business. It
took a bit of doing as Peter could have told you.
There were small sourtesies, of course; questions
as to “How the small girl was poppin’?” the
gracious acceptane of quinces, and the answer to
the sum in long dvision. Peter had to be very
insubordinate to uie teacher when the small girl
was looking, and leads in her vicinity were likely
to be punched without cause or warning.
One afternoon be small girl and her friend
passed Peter a conversation lolly with these
words inscribed ol it: “Are you married?”
Peter was convulse! with ecstasy. After school,
he showed that ha considered the' incident pro-
pitious. “ See yei up the street one o’ these
nights,” he said, and ran off without waiting for
an answer.
Peter had been selt to buy butter, and saw the
small girl walking in the street. He followed
her, whistling at intervals. Whenever he whistled
the small girl turned and smiled encouragingly,
whereat Peter wavedhis hand. This was gratify-
ing, but indefinite. |
Presently the small girl set him a problem that
took a bit more than yhistling to solve.
She stopped at the corner and beckoned him to
approach. Peter made incision into the butter
with his finger, and pondered. Obviously the
only way to reach the linall girl with dignity was
by a circuitous route, via the piles of shutters,
round the tree guards, skipping, sidling, walking
sideways and backwais, and, in fact, any way
but frontways. It todk some time to do, but at
length Peter reached the moral support of a
verandah-post and became aware of the small
Kiri.
“What-o,” he said.
“ What-o,” said the small girl. *
“ I thort it was you,” said Peter.
The small girl thought it was too.
“That was me whistlin’,” said Peter modestly.
“ Was it?” asked the small girl with interest.
Peter nodded.
“I thought it was,” said the small girl.
“I—l thought it was, too,” said Peter.
There was a pause. Peter took a turn round
the verandah-post.
“ Where you goin’ ? ” he said at length.
“Home. I got to go for the milk. Our cow’s
calvin’.”
“ So’s ours—about a month ago. Where your’s
to?”
‘ What?”
“Your cow.”
“ How ? ’’
“Where’s she to?”
“O, up Wilson’s paddock.”
“ So’s ours, when she was—she ain’t now,
though.”
What next to say ? Peter sidled into the gutter,
picked up a stone, and threw it at the tree-guard.
Then lie came briskly back to the verandah post.
“ Where yer off Saturdee night ?” he asked.
“ Nowhere,” said the small girl, promptly.
Peter made a great pretence of examining a
crack in the verandah post, and made a whistling
sound the while. Once he stopped, and almost
said something.
“Well, look” he began. The small girl
looked obediently, but nothing came for a space.
Peter scratched his head vigorously. This conver-
sation was the devil. He began again briskly.
“ Well, look ”
A small boy of Peter’s class came down the
opposite side of the street. He waved his arms,
bird-like, and made shunting noises. Probably
he was a traction engine or a fire brigade.
Peter hailed him at once.
“ What-o, Digger !” he yelled.
Digger looked round vacantly, and presently
focussed Peter. “ How yer poppin’ ? ” he shouted.
“ How’s yer uncle?” inquired Peter, politely.
“ Give yer a game of alleys.”
“ I will to-morrer.”
Digger livened up. He was evidently a keen
sport.
“ Come on. I’ll play yer glassies up.”
“I’ll play yer six Frenchies up —any day yer
like, to-morrer,” said Peter, for the small girl’.-
benefit.
Suddenly Digger divined the reason of Peter’-
reticence.
“ What price?” he yelled, pointing.
Peter stared. “Look who yer with !” shrilled
the entranced Digger. “Look who yer torkin'
to ! Look who yer are.”
Peter put the butter down and frowned majes-
tically.
“ She’s yer sweetheart,” announced the mocker.
“She’s yer sweet” He fled precipitately,
accompanied by stones. Peter came back, puff-
ing, and wasted some breath talking about what
would happen to him to-morrow.
Then he took a fresh grip of the verandah post
and said, briskly :
“ Where yer off Saturdee night ? ”
The small girl gave the required answer. Peter
gymnasted rapidly.
“ See yer up the Ballarat-road, if yer like,” he
said, without stopping his gyrations.
The small girl closed with him at once. “If
I’m let out,” she added. “ You let out much of a
night?”
“No fear,” said Peter; “’less I clear. Then I
am. If I don’t I ain’t.”
The small girl nodded.
“So am I—if I do,” she said.
“Me mother’s the one,” said Peter. “How
does she roust! ”
The small girl’s old Aunt Johnson, it appeared,
also rousted. So did Jo’s mother. AH the
grown-ups of their world, in fact, were singularly
endowed with ability in that direction. It was
an interesting subject, but not to be prolonged.
Peter was presently back at the verandah-post,
gyrating. The small girl waited a reasonable
length of time for him to resume the conversation,
but as Peter’s activity seemed to increase rather
than diminish, she sidled up and nudged him
with her elbow.
“ What about what time, Saturdee?” she said.
Peter ceased instantly and thought hard. Then
he took off his cap, examined it closely, and put
it on again, pulling it well down over his ears.
“ What about how ? ” he asked.
“Well, look,” said the small girl in an ex-
tremely confidential tone; “what about three
o’clock up behind the bowling green ? ”
Peter was enchanted. In a spasm of audacity
be reached out and gave the small girl a pat on
the back. She smiled and walked off sedately,
leaving Peter gazing after her, consumed with
admiration. Then he ran home exultantly, and
got into a devil of a row about that butter.
* * * *
That Saturday’s walk was a great event —much
more important than the arrival of a new groom,
or a half-crown, or a punch on the nose, or any such
minor episodes of a strenuous existence.
They walked gravely up the creek, past the
football match (even that tremendous event failed
to entice Peter, prominent barracker as he was),
and so on up into the bush. All the afternoon
they climbed actively about the landscape, con-
versation being much facilitated thereby. The
small girl picked maiden-hair fern, and Peter
jumped from all the high rocks that his worthi-
ness might be apparent.
His immense and conscious superiority as he
went home after saying good-bye to the small girl
would not suffer him to walk. He had to proceed
by a series of skips, bounds and plunges. Gutters
were jumped with an extravagant display of
energy, fences scaled with utter recklessness. A
post-and-rail fence could not be merely scaled—
it had to be walked on.
A string of Chinamen went by in single file.
They had to be pelted.
The local schoolmaster, stalking past, bereft by
the hour of his brief authority, might reason
darkly in his mind why he should be described
from a distant treeguard as “ Monkey Brown, the
dirty skite”; but he certainly did not ascribe it
to Peter’s lately acquired knowledge of the
mystery of love.
At the tea-table, Peter’s exultation was com-
pletely misunderstood. How could Peter’s elder
sister, for instance—an objectionable person, who
(Continued on next page.)


THERE’S NO PEACE
FOR THE KIDNEY SUFFERER
With the back always aching; work impossible; no rest at night;
afraid to bend; standing erect causes a sharp, stab-like pain, that almost
takes away your breath, and leaves you weak, nervous and despairing; or
suffering the tortures of rheumatism, or gravel, or urinary trouble —there’s
no peace for the Kidney sufferer. But there is a safe, lasting cure—Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. They bring the health and peace of mind that only
the man who is free from kidney trouble can appreciate.
Bead the case given below of this Sydney man, aged 74, who has been
cured of serious kidney disease by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They
brought peace and health to him—they will do the same, for you.
Erskineville Man-Cured to Stay Cured.
Mr. John Loaney, 20 Swanson Street, Erskineville, states : —“ Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
cured me of very serious kidney disease. My ill-health commenced three years ago, when I first had to
lay up. I had terrible pains in my back and right side, and my secretions scalded, and were thick, and
contained sedimentary matter. I also had fits, of giddiness,, and every day I would have a violent headache.
For two years I spent an average of two weeks out of every three in bed, and even when up I was very
ill. I was very weak, and fell away. I had the best medical advice and treatment to be procured ; ten
leading Sydney physicians treated me in the three years of my illness ; their bills totalled £lBO. The
general idea was that I suffered with stone in the kidneys, and I was constantly advised to undergo an
operation. At last a specialist put me under the X-rays. He found no foreign substance in the kidneys,
but a dark veil enveloped the right kidney, showing pronounced disease. I gave up all hope of recovery,
and fully expected to die soon, and my friends were of the same opinion. My lawyer was brought home,
and made out my will. I was held up to sign it. Not long after this I was advised to use Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. The man who urged me to give this remedy a trial had been cured by it, and had the
utmost faith in its healing properties. One could not but be convinced that he was in thorough earnest,
so I sent for a supply to Ellis’ Pharmacy, Erskineville. I used nine boxes, and was cured. I felt no good
effects until I was using the third box ; but after that my recovery was* gradual. I might mention that
an opeiation which had been suggested was to cost me £6O. My cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cost me less than 30s. If I had used these pills when I first got ill I would be considerably over £2OO
richer to-day.” .
Four years later Mrs. Loaney says “I am pleased to be able to say now that my husband is
still free of kidney trouble, and has been for the past four years. In fact', he was never better in his life,
and is without ache or pain. I think his cure is marvellous, for he is 77.”
'Every Ticfure
Tells a Story.’*
r-./
N>
hr
1
&
fc/
/
/
V/
y
IJ
DOAN’S
Backache
PILLS
For sale at all Chemists
and Stores, 2s. pd. per
bottle (six bottles, 15s.
3d.); or from Foster,
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
suffered from chronic indignation at the state of
, , s 'lands accept Peter’s request for her to
ug her head as an evidence of Peter’s new-born
affection ?
How could Peter's elder brother—one who
never entered Peter’s presence without objecting
to t le perfume of the stables, said to come from
refers boots—understand that he, Peter, was no
ouger to be so cheaply rated, however loud the
effluvium of his footgear. Could Peter’s mother
oe expected to read emancipation in the Homeric
rown ie )R nt upon her as he munched his bread
and jam ? Bill might understand, Peter thought.
i w,is 10, and lie ate his food as though he knew
it was poisoned, but didn’t care. That was Bill’s
genera] attitude to life at that time, chiefly be-
cause he had had four long beers at the Shamrock
on Saturday night, and had needlessly advertised
tne tact by falling down in the passage when be
came home.
Reflecting on the honor that Bill would do him
w len his deed was know ». Peter followed him up
ie passage and sidled into the bedroom after him.
ee ing a certain delicacy about approaching
tlie matter, Peter closed the door, and with the
intention of insinuating on Bill’s understanding
that something in the nature of the remarkable
was about to happen, be laughed hoarsely and
punched Bill gaily in the back.
Certainly Bill’s temper was an unreliable
quantity, but Peter hardly expected to be
pounded, throttled and bundled out of the room
like an intruding fowl.
, ixr ,^ ear hell,” shouted Bill, ferociously.
Y come bummin’in here agen, an’ 1 11 choke
yer’
Hoot him, ’ said Peter, making a feeble effort
to retain a little dignity, but the door was shut in
his face.
I eter went off gloomily to the back garden and
ate a turnip ; other fruit there being none. Fall-
"i°!i H ler f il^er ' into a gentle pessimism, lie con-
cluded that sorrow would visit Bill on the day
that he (Peter) was tossed to death by wild bulls.
* * * *
® ourse T since the addition of a girl to Peter’s
worldly belongings, it was absolutely necessary
for bis mate Jo to have one too. Peter gave the
matter out as settled. He engaged himself to
procure one with ease and precision.
“You leave it to me.” said he ;so Jo,left it to
him, and Peter supplied him with much windy
assurance, hut no girl. At first Jo listened with
complacency to Peter’s boasting, as a foretaste of
what was coming to himself, but at.length he
began to get a little peevish over it.
Peter had promised him a girl; and since he
had no girl, and Peter had, it required no very
complicated process of induction to conclude that
I eter ought to give him his. This honorable
solution to the difficulty Peter basely refused to
accept, so Jo very properly considered that lie
had a grievance. It took the form of unreason-
able reminders on any occasion when he liappened
to meet Peter.
“What about me girl ? ” he would shout, bear-
ing down on Peter, bat in hand, red-faced, de-
nunciatory.
He even took to passing notes in school:
What about that?” and “Arst her now.”
It all hinged on this matter of “arsting.”
Peter having refused to “arst” his own girl, it
was decided to “ arst ” her friend. Peter had to
do l all the “arsting,” .To peremptorily declining
to move in the matter at all. So Peter duly
“atst” Dolly in school to “ arst ” Stella,, arid
got a whack over the head from the teacher for
Ill's pains. ,
After school Peter and Dolly held an earnest
consultation. Stella was By, as one disinterested,
and Jo lurked behind a tree-guard.
“I arst her,” said Peter, subsequently disen-
tangling the affair to Jo in the stable, “an’ she
arst her, an’ she’s on, on’v you gotter arst her.”
This, of course, brought the affair back to the
starting point, and there was perplexity and much
amazement.
“I tell yer I won’t arst her,” shouted' Jo,
when a third rendering of this unprofitable dis-
cussion had clearly evolved that necessity. “Y’
arst her yerself—y’ said y’ would, y’ proved y’
would' 1 ’
“ I tell yer I arst her,” shouted Peter.
Jo took his voice down a trifle lower.
“ Arst her again,” he said.
“ If I arst her,” demanded Peter, “ will yer arst
her yerself ? ”
“I’ll arst her,” said Jo, “if you’ll arst her
first.”
On this clear understanding, Peter carried his
bedraggled request to school next day, and
smuggled it over the desk between lessons.:
“ He arst me to arst her,” he said hurriedly to
Dolly, “ if Stella’s on fer him.”
“ Stella’s on fer him,” said Dolly, “if he arst’s
her.”
“Why don’t he arst me himself?” suggested
Stella, disinterestedly.
Peter looked over the heads of three boys and
caught a frantic eye fixed on him. He made
symbolic gestures, indicating Stella, find framing
the words “After school ” with his mouth.
It was the teacher who definitely postponed
the matter till that hour. “ And if I catch j-ou
talking to those girls again,” he said, as Peter
strove frantically to apply friction to the small of
his back, “ you’ll go to the office.”
Peter scowled along the desk at the back of
Jo’s head, notable for a red ear. Let him procure
for himself in future. If girls were as plentiful as
blackberries, Peter would get no man a girl upon
compulsion.
* * * *
However, the matter adjusted itself, despite
the delay occasioned by Peter’s’assistance. ■
Jo met Stella walking in the street, and from
the safe distance of about 100 yards fired a solicitous
inquiry after her health. Having done this
entirely on his own responsibility, he ran off and
exulted openly in the presence of Peter and the
groom.
The following afternoon, to make good his
boasting, lie was led to the Smiths’ back fence,
and after a feeble resistance, thrust into the
society of ladies. He .certainly did not con-
tribute, much, to the conversation, except to laugh
hoarsely, flush frantically, and remark “Hoo!”
whenever addressed.
However, as Stella was very gracious, and Dolly
supplied apples, and Peter talked and skited and
climbed about the fence with enouglr activity for
several small boys tolled, into one, the afternoon
passed off well, and Jo went to bed that night in
such a state of exultation that lie could hardly
sleep for admiring himself.
Thereafter he and Peter spent all their leisure
hanging about the back fence, whistling at the
front one, or w-alking stately in the bush.
The section of their existenbe passed between
these doings they counted as nothing, except
when they were talking things over with the
groom, who, "being a man of the world himself,
'could safely be made privy to the business.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Outposts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BEYOND the noisy railway, outside the
postal roads,
Where swing' no swaying coaches, no
coaster wharfs her loads ;
Where brood dark-gullied ranges, where brown
plains meet the sky—-
In scrub and brush and jungle the lone bush Out-
posts lie.
The vanguard lags behind them ; the rearguard
rests at ease ;
The citv-fed battalion doth bivouac in peace ;
But constant is their vigil, their duty long and
keen
Who keep the distant Outposts through fatted
years and lean.
They read no current cables ; no inky herald
brings
To them each morning early the hews of men and
things,
The policies of nations ; the world, both grave
and gay,
Is but a formless shadow—an echo far away.
They face the raging summer and pray a cooling
change—
Dust-reddened in the desert; fire-haunted on the
range :
They nurse the stock to water, fly-pestered
through the haze
And heat and desolation of dry, drought-devilled
days.
They toil through trying winters, foregoing
present needs,
For misty future chances—for tools, or stock, or
seeds.
They walk in homely raiment; coarse fare the
cupboard fills
Of those who keep the Outposts along the plains
and hills.
Blazed tracks through forests gloomy—steep,
stony trails they know ;
By flooded fords and marshes, and gullies white
with snow,
The thunder on the hillside, the loud tornado’s
flight;
Bruised flesh and strong limbs shattered, and
sickness in the night.
Aye. doubts and dreads uncertain, child-bearings,
fevers, chills,
Long, sleepless nights of watching, all human
griefs and ills,
Are theirs to bear and battle when hard the
burdens press,
Of solitary trouble and pain in loneliness.
Their dead lie buried near them ; the loved they
might not save,
A panel and a paling to mark the quiet grave,
White stars their tapers burning, the wind among
the trees
To sing above the sleepers its soft bush melodies.
The creaking of the saddles, the stockwhips
sounding clear
And gaily in the morning, the gallant Outposts
hear;
The bell-birds in the blood woods, or, from the pale
lagoon.
Green frogs in rain-time croaking hoarse greetings
to the moon.
Great pictures spread before them; the sky s
unfathomed arch ;
Dark clouds like feudal ramparts, white clouds
upon the march,
Red mornings on the mountain, red sunsets o er
the plain,
The moonlit river windings, the paddocks wet
with rain ;
The Canvas of Creation, whose thousand tints
and shades
On endless prairies linger and dwell in everglades,
With all its form and color, its desert and its
dew—
While pass the changing seasons —is ever theirs to
view.
Bare, ring-barked patches standing like white
bones far away ;
Bark walls and roofs that mirage to castles ’neath
the play
Of mocking suns down-pouring fierce heat-waves
o’er the land ;
The flats below.the gullies, the sweet soaks in the
sand—
These mark in turn the Outposts. By lonesome
trail and track
Ye may, so suited, seek them by Far and Farthest
Back.
Warm hearts will give ye greeting, strong hands
will freely grasp
Your hands in hearty welcome with honest,
friendly clasp.
Through sunshine and through starshine, through
failure and success,
In fair and flowing seasons, in seasons of distress;
Beyond the touch of culture, without thfe ways of
ease, I
These soldiers of the Outposts their v|gils never
cease.
Lank heroes clothed in moleskin, browil heroines
in print;
Although you gain no medals nor in the social
mint
Are stamped with high approval, net all that
• silken crew
Of snobs and city loafers can boast the worth of
you.
Ye have your faults and failings; the pressure
of your need
Forbids angelic sweetness and bars (the saintly
breed ;
But ye are Men and Women and fit ,nd worthy
peers
Of them who hold the Outposts thrcjugh all the
fighting years.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


r?
s
l a *
*«•••
r»®i
1 A^*
The Leader of Them All!
That is, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla; not
some other kind, but “Ayer’s.”
This grand old family medicine
has stood the test for over sixty
years. That’s the kind you
should take. You cannot afford
to experiment, your health is
too precious.
You may not now be really ill
from some well-defined disease, and yet
you know you are all run down, your
nerves are unstrung, and you feel weak
and discouraged.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
is the strongest and best medicine you can
take to remove this tired and exhausted
feeling. It brings cheer, hope, courage.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disap-
point you. Be sure that you get “AYER’S.”
df
TOOHEYS LIMITED
\
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale* Club Rum.
og Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky,
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Thi Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical i
Testimon $
with each j
bottle.
SOLD BY JILL
CHEMIST
Prices In
England ■
1/I£, 2/9 *-4/6
gs
Checks and
. arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHfEA, and is the only
and DYSENTERY.
YOU require a stimulant.
Doctorc recommend Port Wine for invalids.
Y.A.i.BtidgcrrcePort
Nature’s Cti,
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
[make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
gob stock “Budgerree Port,”
id us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
we will forward you a
izen properly packed with-
|it delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers apd Merchants,
Basement, 78 FVT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILkBP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
M BiitisMustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published lj| Australians in London.
44 p|sT FREE, £t per year,
rntC UU. iildvanee, all over the world.
Australians visit! g London are cordially
invited to visit the 1 lading Room where files
of all the leading !s istralian papers may be
inspected. Letters lay be addressed care .of
the British- AdstklaSian during the first
two months of a visi ; to Great Britain. In-
formation on all tt >ios of importance to
visiting Australians i supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
Lone
ddress-
!OJh (Near]
IDOL W.C.
HOLBORI (Near Kings way),
LON!
“LINSEED COMPQJND” for Goughs and
Golds. Of proven efficacy fdfchest complaints.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
/each POST FREE I/s
Ouality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEED FOR OUR TRADE LIST
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A S it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear:—
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading (funs, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re- “
bounding locks, pistol* grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price .. ..£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECr.AU quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-b01t,., Usual Price, £9. Sale Price ..£5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Priee, £3. Sale Price £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity .game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders.excellent stock,
with cartridge machine anti cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price .. .. .. . .. .. .. 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. os. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
majle payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
■ All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
fg
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
IPAIBA.
the same
diseases without
inconvenience
(JOT
Each Capsule bears the name
Well Regulated farqiUes
are fully alive to the importance of being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general,
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
Buchan’; fill;.
Sold, everywhere in boxes, price I in, (56 pills) 2/P U6S pills).
Magazine Talks
By the Editor of THE LONE HAND.
p
No. 2.
EOPLE don’t buy yesterday’s paper to-day.
In a month from now the current issue of THE
LONE HAND will be a back-number. A
live magazine, like a live newspaper, must
be up-to-date. Yet when you buy an imported
magazine you buy a magazine, that is a month, or more,
old. Suppose you bought a newspaper that had -to-day’s
date outside, and yesterday’s date inside, you would be
annoyed, wouldn’t you ? Maybe, want your money back ?
Certainly be careful to scrutinise any other copy of that paper
you might buy. One imported magazine actually dates its cover
a month ahead. For instance, its July cover contains its June
issue. “July” is plainly printed outside—where you will
see it first; “June” is as plainly printed inside. It is the
June'issue masquerading for unwary buyers as the July. Yet
the publisher is not to be altogether blamed. He recognises
that by the time his magazine reaches Australasia it is a
month old. THE LONE HAND does not need these
subterfuges. It is published on the first of each month, and
on sale on the first of each month. It is always up-to-date.
(To be continued.)
w ©
m m
A a
honestty and without charge
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
S.H. HENSHALL,
Regd. Chemist,
bv Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
dg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froo, le.
Send Stamp for fUnttratpd Lit* of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
313. G.P.0.. SYDNEY .
ASTHMA CURE
CRIMAIILT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES I
~ Herrons Coogfcs,
iresslon immediately
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT A Co’s INDIAN CIGAR'
RTTES. Sold by all Chemitti.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Tiiibaolt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centnnee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
Tn nee since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aik your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. London, El g.


Perdriau’s Good
Sporting Footwear.
White Canvas Tennis Shoes,
with Jin. best quality red
robber soles; toes and heels
hand sewn. Men’s, 12/6 per
pair. Women’s, plain, 10/3
per pair; with cap and strap,
10/8 per pair. Postage extra,
1/- per pair.
The “Dally ML” Football Boot
is a very popular style. It is
boilt on very good lines, and
is of solid leather through-
df
out. 11/9 per pair.
The " Perdrlau ” Football Boot is extra strong', and is
made of Box Calf. 9/6 per pair. Postage extra, ty-
per pair.
We guarantee satisfaction if you order by post. Write
for a copy of our Catalogue if you cannot calL
PER DR!A U RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,"
270 George Street, Sydney .
HAULAG
Electric
PLANT
N,-i
FOR
■ ri ‘' ' > l¥j
HINES.
30 Pitt
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
ORIGINAL AND
<INE BALATA.
TRADh
warn
gd
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet r .
Every Belt, GUARANTEED. As a iruard against .
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every fe
James ffardie &
Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbou
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
J Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. 6d.
fg
At all times
♦ .
asR for and obtain only
The beverage
that benefits.
Two
Crank
Com-
pressor.
Series B.
Size No.*
Double.
800 cuhio
feet per
minute.
Pres-
sures up
to 1301 b.
mm
*
IS
.
■
m
. «• »> L -n i v *
FOR STEAfI, QAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted toy British Admiralty, and used|
by the Largest Power Users of the World.
mm
p
s
■ ;
SI
~T or ELECIteIC
1. I
Simple, Double or Triplf Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
'pr* ttßjjji
&
THE
.. -
Give Wonderful Satisfaction.
Several Styles to choose from. PRICES from 6/9 to 11/$ each.
An Illustrated Booklet sent to any address In Australia—Free. S
Sole Agents for Australia—-DALGETY 8 COMPANY, LTD., Miller's Point, Sydney.
dg
6
1
HI
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Castlereagh Chambers,
10 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
'Phone: City 2325
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Offices Gastlereagh Chambers, 10 Casdereagh Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Add
“ MINE SMELT
SYDNEY.
We Manufacture
in Sydney
PERCUSSIVE ROCK DRILLS
AIR (HAND) HAMMER DRILLS
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.!
ds
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUES.
MINING SUPPLIES FROM
Drill Steel, Oil, Candies,
Explosives,
etc.
%w
%
TO
ROCK drills,
, AIR COMPRESSORS,
, ,|gg;:; CONCENTRATORS, and the
World-Famed B. & M. Agitating Tanks for Cyanide
kerosene hoist
