

-THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. Q. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street;, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Stf&TO. fc- SSsr
Recke=Ruston
Positive Valve Gear
Steam
es
for the
Heaviest
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
£COB^.H.T.
(jadleys Orient [jotel.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING *V
Guaranteed.
«/. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Take it back,
I must have-
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs. s
HANSEN’S
9 Js\, «&•-
r „ INDIGESTION
and dyspepsia
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
GUfaaff. J®
Cs
mWMkIL.
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
AL
CH
is the Queen of sJI Cocoas
Ifoi^
Arom^StrengtK^Purity:
MALTHGID ROOFS
WILL KEEP YOU COOL and COMFORTABLE.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
ECONOMY
4
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
-
-r
St
w
m
PUMPS
yioois ni
ld3M S39IAUIS ntf aod
Send for Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 S 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
WHISKY.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
** It is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical man
of Helidon Spa, HELIDON SPA is Nature's Eliminant
DEWHURST S HALLORAN, Ltd.
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol .31— No. 1597.]
[Thursday, September 22, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
ROBERTSON’S, 238 PITT STREET
(Opposite Sydney School of Arts).
STEAMSHIPS AND
his sumptuous volume is beautifully illustrated, with Frontispiece in Color, and over 150 illustrations, with Hand
soinely Decorated Cover, 255., posted 265. 6d.
Chesterton, G. K.: What’s Wrong With the
McKnight: Marine Mnltituhular Boiler, 4s, posted 45.5 d.
Lawrence, Sir D.: Bacon is Shakespeare, 3s, posted 3s 4d.
Dicksee’s Business Organisation, ss, posted 5s 6d.
Allen’s Corn Organic Anat.v-sis, 245, posted 25s 3d.
World (new supply), price 7s, posted 7s 6d.
Percival : Agricultural Bacteriolog-v, 9s, posted 9s Bd.
Porter’s Sanitary Law, 3s, posted 3s 4d.
Hobart’s Electric Motors, 21s, posted 22s 6d.
150 Practical Hints on Motor Cars, Is 3d, posted Is 6d.
DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIPS’ WHITE MAGIC, 3s. 6d., posted 4s.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes/'
AN IDEAL REMEDY
MEDICAL CkAXrnt
'should prove or great
on) 9
C.HUDS
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug,
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective bactericidallj
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUSIENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on*Receipt of
1/6
in Stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY; LTD 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
VENETIAN DAUGHTER.
We stood on a glad September night,
I and Venetia’s daughter,
And watched in the quivering pale moonlighb
A little boat sail o’er the water.
Lightly she held on her golden way,
The ripples following after,
Music floated over the bay,
And the sound of a girl’s light laughter.
A passion of longing filled my heart
And a pain that was past enduring,
My old love’s child was near to me,
The charm of her sweet, alluring.
I drew her close with a murmured word,
And presently she grew bolder ;
Astir, like a newly captive bird,
She pillowed her head on my shoulder.
So we two dreamed in the old, old way,
I and Venetia’s daughter ;
Music came floating over the bay.
A little boat rocked on the water.
N.S.W.
MARJORIE QUINN.
Sid Long
Photo, by Appleby.
Sydney Long is the latest Australian artist
to go London wards. The trip is partly for
recreation—he is 38 and has worked hard
for a .good many years—and partly for educa-
tion : 38, but it is never too late to learn.
Born at Goulburn, N.S.W., Long received
all his training in Sydney, principally under
Julian Ashton. When Ashton led the
break away from the old Art Society, the
secessionists formed the Society of Artists,
and Long was appointed president. For
some years he was a teacher of painting in
Sydney.
Long tried early to represent his own
ideas, which were mostly poetical ideas.
“Pan” was an outcome of the exuberance
of youth—a failure; but an honorable
failure. In “ The Spirit of the Plains, ” an
original fantasy was more skilfully realised.
“ Flamingoes,” in the Sydney Gallery, is a
gorgeous feast of color. It is not likely
that Europe will chasten the opulent color
sense of Long ; it may enable him to develop
it more fully.
This is what he had to say before he left,
at the beginning of this month
“ I should have gone seven years ago ;
anyhow, it’s not too late now. I want to see
the great pictures, to see the big work of to-
day, to study technique. Every Australian
artist ought to go to the capitals of the art
world—Paris and London—and come back.
Of course, lam coming back. I can’t
imagine the possibility of living away from
Australia permanently. Besides, why should
I ? Australia is my own country, and I love
it. She has treated me well. I have
no complaint whatever to make against Aus-
tralia. An artist here gets as much
encouragement as he has any right to expect.
If he goes to America, England or France
he enters into competition with hundreds
like himself and better.
“Eighteen months ago, when I decided
definitely to take this trip, I began to save
money. I have made enough since then
to live upon comfortably and keep me for the
next 18 months if I never paint another pic-
ture. By that time I hope to be back.
“ Certainly the artist has a rocky road to
travel at first. So he ‘has anywhere. You
can’t do any good in art as an amateur,
treating it as a side show. Poor old Harry
Garlick worked all day in an office and used
himself up before his time by studying and
drawing at night. If you throw yourself
into the professional stream you take risks,
of course. But I don’t remember that any
have drowned here.
“ The worst of it is that the picture buyers
are comparatively few, and an artist has to
depend more or less on teaching. Once he
gets a class going he is anchored. That is
why so many of us can’t get away as early as
we would like in order to go on with our own
education. Australia is a greats, place for a
man to begin in ; he is likely to let himself
go, to get himself on to the canvas, if he has
anything to say ; but, of course, he may not
have the same chance of saying it well.
That’s what I want to go to Europe for—not
to pick up tricks, but to learn how to express
myself better. And when I return, I hope
to go Out Back. I should like to jog about out
there and get the spirit of the real Australia
into my blood, and then paint the plains,
the heart of the country.”
In Divorce
Those who enjoy the spicy breezes which
blow so oft in the court of matrimonial
jurisdiction will be attracted by H. E. Fenn’s
Thirty-Jive Years in the Divorce Court (Syd-
ney Book Club). Thirty-five years at the
washing of dirty linen—some of it the very
finest quality lawn with a coronet in the
corner—might easily make a man cynical;
but Fenn seems to have preserved a “ jolly-
and-fat ” view of life.
Judge Hannen, with his affected cough and
theatrical air, said: “Every good Judge
must be something of, an actor,” though he
sternly enforced the rule that “ This court
is not a theatre.” The public interest in
divorce cases is partly due to the salacious
details; but mainly to the essence of drama
in them Fenn, as a reporter, was a privi-
leged spectator, and lie protests against the
struggle for places at the show by the junior
bar, the male loafers and well-dressed
women.
To them it is the same as going te a theatre, only
more exciting, for instead of seeing others pretend
to suffer they see men and women undergoing a
terrible ordeal.
One of the most interesting of the divorce
lawyers mentioned is Sir Rufus Isaacs, the
present Solicitor-General. In his early days
he went to sea “before the mast.” On one
occasion he was taken prisoner by Chinese
pirates. At 20 he tried piracy on his own
account—as a member of the Stock Ex-
change. Later on he breasted the Bar, and
quickly rose to the top of the profession.
The methods of pleaders have changed a
good deal in 35 years. No longer does the
barrister depend upon an impassioned appeal
to the jury, or act as did Willis, counsel for
Mrs. Newman Hall in a famous case, who
“shed copious tears during his address.”
This Willis was engaged in another case in
which the son of Charles Dickens appeared
for the other side.
Little Willis had been conducting his case in
his usual strenuous manner, and had, in the
course of his speeoh, referred personally to the
opposing counsel, remarking that rarely, if ever,
were the sons of great men blessed with the same
superabundance of intellect that distinguished
their fathers. in reply, said that he
would not have thought of introducing his father
into the case but for the remarks of his learned
friend, which reminded him of a well-known
phrase in one of his father’s novels—“ Barkis is
willin’” As he listened to his learned friend’s
speech he could not help saying to hiinself
“Willis is barking.”
Another of the novelist’s sons. E. B. L.
Dickens, who sat in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly, made the same remark about a
speeeh by W. N. Willis.
Fenn quotes Lord Young’s saying that
there are three kinds of witnesses— ‘ * the liar,
the d— liar and the expert ” —and says that
there is no tribunal in the country in which
perjury is so rife as in the Divorce Court.
Servant girls are the best witnesses. Women
generally lie less clumsily than men. Women
have advanced all along the line. They take
a larger size in boots than formerly. ‘‘ Eight
is no uncommon size for a lady to wear.”
They have greater facilities for divorce.
Though it is still the law that a man may
beat his wife “in a reasonable manner,”
he does so at his peril. “At one time it was
an unheard thing for men to complain of
the violence of women; now it appears to be
quite common.”
In .a police-court case a witness stated that his
wife inflicted injuries which prevented him from
following his vocation. “What is your business,
sir?” said the magistrate. “Your Honor, lam
a lion tamer.”
E. S. Emerson
Anew edition of E. S. Emerson’s A
Shanty Entertainment (Geo. Robertson and
Cos., Is.) is welcome, as the first was out of
print long ago. While waiting for the coach
at a bush shanty some half-dozen or so
characters pass the time by making love,
swapping yarns, singing and reciting.
Accompanied by an accordion, such songs
as these would go well :
For it burns ’ere like an ember
An’ I can’t well disremember
’Ow we uster lip a chorus
As we stroked along the track—
When the world was all before us
An’ we made our way Out Back.
For a-ridin’—or a-rovin’—
Or a-shearin’—or a-drovin’—
There were fiery spirits movin’
In the good ole days Out Back.
Some of them are better than the occasion
warranted, such as the “ Rain Song ”
There is music in the Mallee—
Lilting music, soft and low,
Like the songs in vale and valley
Where the summer waters flow ;
But an anthem of elation
Wedded to a woman’s mouth
Is the message from each station
From the Mitchell River south.
For it’s raining ! raining ! raining !
How the iron roof tops ring !
How the waters, swiftly draining
Through the straining down pipes sing !
Every drop a golden rhyme is.
Every shower a stanza Strong,
And each day of raining time is
Canto sweet of God's great song.
Emerson has written enough good verse and
prose since A Shanty Entertainment to fill
two or three books, and he has a comic
opera, “Antarctica,” in the hands of a Lo#-
don agent. Emerson leaves N.S.W. this
month for Kalgoorlie, where he will edit the
W.A. Worker. He takes a load of good
wishes with him.
The late William Holman Hunt was one of the
founders of the famous “ P.R.B.,” which made a
big splash in the middle of last century’s art.
Hunt, in his Pre-Raphaelitism and the P. It.
Brotherhood claimed thatheand Millais were
the only genuine P.R’s. in the brotherhood, and
Millais very soon deserted its principles. These,
he maintained, did not mean medievalism, but
thoroughness and elaboration of detail. (The name
was chosen to signify their dissociation from the
followers of Raphael, and re version to the methods
of Raphael and his predecessors.) Rossetti, the
most magnetic influence in the movement, went his
own way. Hunt complained of him that he treated
the Gospel story as on the same level as the
Arthurian legends. He himself tried to preach
in paint. Biblical subjects occupied him for the
best part of his life, and to secure faithfulness of
detail he spent much time in Palestine. Any old
goat would not do him for “ The Scapegoat ” ; he
must have.a Jerusalem goat, and paint him on the
shores of the Dead Sea. The painter kept a gun
across his knees while grafting at the easel, but
he had no weapon for the predatory insects. It
was magnificent; but not—necessary. Hunt was
credited with unusually keen eyesight, hence the
prominence of minute details, and his pictures
have all the hard virtues of photography. “ The
Light of the World,” which aroused the admira-
tion of religious critics, is almost the equivalent
in paint of Edwin Arnold’s poem. The odds are
in favor of the poem, as the picture needs a com-
mentary.
A Reviewer of 'wenty-Eight
The first; number of the Australian Quar-
terly Journal made its appearance in January,
1828. Its death was eventually brought
about by that heart failure induced by finan-
cial anaemia, to which so many successors of
its kind in Australia have succumbed. It
was a good, sound, stodgy, well-edited
quarterly of the sort that might be expected
from an editor who takes five long lines of
the title page to set forth his own attain-
ments and glories. The principal attain-
ment is that of having been a scholar of
St. John’s College, Cambridge, and his glory
is that he is at present “one of his Majesty’s
Assistant Chaplains in the Colony of New
South Wales.” After this, it surprises you
to find that the Rev. Charles Wilton, M.A.,
turns out such a good review of “ theology,
literature and science ” as he does. It
would be too good to be a paying produc-
tion in Australia to-day if it were a local pro-
duct.
In its second and third numbers the
Journal reviews, at somewhat awe-inspiring
length, one of the best books of the period
about Australia—that of Peter Cunningham,
Sui'geon, R.N. : Two Years in New South
Wales (London, 1827). This Peter is not to be
confused with the Allan Cunningham whose
bones are enclosed in the little obelisk in
the waterhole in the Sydney Botanic Gar-
dens. They were not even related, although
they were contemporaries, and both notable
enough in the annals of Australia. Peter
Cunningham made four voyages to Sydney
as surgeon-in-charge of convict ships. After
the book under Mr. Wilton’s notice appeared,
and, was eminently successful, he settled
down in New Wales. But he settled
in bad country and encountered droughts,
as has happened to other people, and he was
back at sea again as a naval surgeon in
1830. His last ship—-which the present
writer has been aboard of in Portsmouth
Dockyard—was H.M.S. Asia, one of those
splendid old three-deckers of which the
Victory alone remains in commission. He
left the sea in 1841, and died at Greenwich
in 1864.
In his April number the Reverend Editor
gives Surgeon Cunningham’s book 24 pages
out of 95, and in next month’s issue it gets
19 out of 102. The author had not much to
grumble at in such a liberal allowance as
that. Even J. Foster Fraser’s valuable
pronouncements upon Australia must be
content with less—and. Fraser knows manf
more editors and book reviewers than Peter
Cunningham did. To be sure, Cunningham s
book is an infinitely better one than the
hasty Fraser could ever write ; but, even so,
one wonders at the amount of space it gets
in the Australian Quarterly.
As a reviewer Mr. Wilton is minute to a
degree, and he fairly wallops the surgeon,
from time to time, not only for slips of the
pen, but also for printer’s errors which he
has overlooked in his proof-reading. He
had also that intense admiration for, and
utter belief in, the divine beneficence of
constituted authority which finds such noble
expression in epitaphs of the eighteenth cen-
tury. The literature of the period does not
wholly agree with Mr. Wilton’s estimate of
the character of Governor Darling, although
Peter Cunningham’s seems to do so. But it
was an age of “ smooging.”
The author mentions the good beer brewed
by one Squires at Kissing Point. His
reviewer begins in this eminently character-
istic fashion :
From an advertisement in the public Journals,
we perceive that Farnell, the present owner of
the Brewery (which, if he obtains a license for his
house as an Hotel or Tavern, will be denominated
the Pilgrim) bids fair to equal, if not to surpass,
his far-famed father-in-law, in the good things he
intends to produce. Yet, think not, gentle reader,
that the mantling liquor which you intend to
quaff when, on a trip either up or down the river,
you are forced to put in at the Pilgrim by stress
of thirst, is none other than the generous juice of
John Barleycorn. Be not mistaken —you shall
have, however, the best beverage, that good maize
and English hops can give you.
This leads to mention of the residence of T.
Walker, Esq., J.P.- which stands a little
above the “ Pilgrim,” on the opposite side
of the river—whence you may see the
“new Church of the Field of Mars.”
Follows a description of the church,
together with the information that the
people of the district, “assisted by some of
the neighboring gentry,” are getting up a
subscription “ for the purchase of a Barrel
Organ.” Here we get a little essay on the
advantages of barrel organs—“an instru-
ment which is now brought to such a state
of perfection ”•—and a comparison of them
with “ finger organs.” Next we discover the
“ Brig Dragon, from Van Diemen’s Land,
150 tons, laden with 4000 bushels of wheat
and 300 bags of sugar, for the stores of
Thomas Raine, Esq., at the Darling Mills,
on the Windsor-road.” We progress, for
several pages, right up the Parramatta River,
have a good look round Parramatta—calling
at several of the public-houses and giving
them generous mention—discuss the question
of a line of coaches between there and
Windsor, have a look at the outline of the
Blue Mountains, and so from them to the
Malvern Hills in Worcestershire. At last,
with a bump, we come back to Surgeon
Cunningham’s theory as to the hot north-
west winds which afflict the colony, and
with which—although it is entirely correct
in the light of what we know to-day—the
reviewer disagrees with violence.
But he likes his author, and concludes his
notice of the first volume with an intimation
that if the second proves as agreeable “ we
shall pronounce his work to be not only one
of the most entertaining that has of late
years issued from the press ; but one of the
greatest value to the emigrant to these
shores.”
And although we might, perhaps, have
pointed out a few inelegancies in his style, yet we
will not be fastidious and find fault; and the
more so when, upon looking back, we discover
that we have ourselves committed an unpardon-
able error in omitting to mention among the
ornaments of the Parramatta river, the water-mill
of Mr. H. M’Arthur.
There we have it, the pathetic feature of
many and many a “ straggler ” in the ranks
of periodic literature. Messrs. Raine, Far-
nell and M’Arthur are all in the subscribers’
list. They must be kept there. T. Walker,
Esq., is not yet in it, but he is a “possible.”
Here is the reason why the reverend
reviewer rambles. One wonders whether
the surgeon ever really understood that the
vast notice of his book was not solely due to
its merits, unmistakable as they are.
But it is a readable review of a readable
book. If many of the careless, uncertain,
prejudiced books about Australia that have
been produced within the last 30 years had
been written in the same spirit as Two Years
in New South Wales, and their authors had
possessed the same keen power of observa-
tion, the same sense of humor, and the same
capacity for thought as Peter Cunningham
possessed, the “extraneous” literatux-e of
Australia would have been of a much higher
order than it is. And if critics had as little
regard for “space ” as had the Rev. Charles
Wilton, M.A., there' would be no more
critics. Which would be very sad.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


XL
No. 0112— Nightdress in Madapolam
Trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace
Beading- and Ribbons, 8/6
No. 318. Combinations in Nainsook,
trimmed Valenciennes Lace, with
Insertions and Ribbons. Women’s,
5/9 ; 0.5., 6/6.
203
No. 20S.—Chemise in Pine Lonjjcloth,
trimmed Embroidery, with Medallions and
Ribbons, Women’s, 3/6 ; 0.5., 3/11.
773
No. 778.—Nightdress in Nainsook, Trimmed
Valenciennes Lace Insertion and Ribbons, 14/-
FOR FAMILY DRAPERY
Try a course of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Top Quality at Bottom
Price is the Golden
Rule at the NEW
PALACE EMPORIUM.
320
No. 320. Combinations in
Madapolam, trimmed Imita-
tion Maltese Lace with Bead-
ing and Ribbons. Women’s,
7/- ; 0.5., 7/6.
No. 132—Combina-
tions in Nainsook,
trimmed Torchon
Lace, Insertion and
Ribbon, 5/-
No. 321.—Combinations in
Madapolam, Trimmed Imita-
tion Maltese Lace, Beadinsr,
Insertion and Ribbons,
Women’s, 7/-; 0.5., 7/6.
No. 1371. —Princess Petti-
coat, in Madapolam,
tucked, inserted and
trimmed Real Torchon
Lace, 21 /■
Many other charming styles are illustrated
in our Price List of Ladies’ Underclothing.
Write for a copy, posted free on application,
and reap the full measure of economy always
to he found in
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 218.— Combinations in
Lonjrcloth, Trimmed Em-
broidery and Insertion,
Beading and Ribbons,
Women’s, 6/9 ; 0.5., 7/6.
Wo. 1606.— Combina-
tions in Nainsook,
Trimmed Torchon
Lace and Insertion,
7/11.
Consult our Illustrated
Price Lists for anything
you want. Write for copies,
posted free on request.
No. 305. —Madapolam Chemise,
inserted and trimmed Torchon
Lace, 3/3.
No. 652— Combinations in Madapolam,
trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace
Beading and Ribbon, 4/6.
TERMS:
SPOT CASH ,
No. 350.—Nightdress in Madapolam,
Trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace
and Ribbons, 6/-
No. 400.—Nainsook Nightdress,
trimmed with Valenciennes Lace,
Insertion and Tucks, 6'/11.
No. 177—Nightdress in Nainsook, trimmed
Real Torchon, Swiss Insertion, Beading, and
Ribbons, 12/-
No. 300—Nightdress in Madapolam, trimmed Torchon.
Lace, Insertion and Ribbons. Women’s, 4/3 ;
0.5., 5/-
No. 206.— Nightdress in Madapolam, trimmed
Embroidery and Beading, Insertion and Ribbons.
Women’s, 10/6 ; 0.5., 11/-
mi
r
xat
i ;
No. 122.—Chemise in Nainsook, Trimmed
Valenciennes Lace and Ribbons, 2/9*
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
i J
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrape ~ BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Trick’s,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, ]/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3'6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, l/-
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
\L
Marvellously Simple I
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the finders (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling- the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Thk Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and '
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
and Chemists,
**ADE MA.R* 1 *
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUEROEN tk SAINSBURY, Melbou
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATMG
The Unire—l Htneir for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiectionß.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
m
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand gagr- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST-
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. .lames Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, E«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
pastes
m
srarr.
ESUfi
anijs
~nU:
IXDI
9
ll' 'll: .Ml -..1i villi «■
rn-
V>s &5 =4=sfc£?
"•rrr:—3 — >~ '(S’ r /r~Ln 7
30| 1 I: Ip
V^PJ^EE
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects :
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “ S ” and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Creek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors), Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors', or any other examination.
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. 14
03BSB&
THE RIGHT RIFLE FOR THE YOUNGEST BOY.
Parts attached to action itself, making it very simple. Weighs pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will also shoot .22 Long
R, F. and .22 Short R. F.
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues-
A Clergyman’s Testimony to Clements Tonic.
Ilf
REV. R. HEFFERNAN, V.D.
The opinions of Ministers of the
Church must be treated with re-
spect. In this instance this testi-
mony is given as an act of charity
for the good that it may do the suf-
fering public, by the Rev. Richard
Heffernan, V. D., of St. Paul’s
Rectory, Canterbury, one of the
best-known churchmen of N.S.
Wales, and for 20 years Chaplain
to the military forces. The poor
in health should read each word.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ St. Paul’s Rectory,
“Canterbury, Sydney, 22/8/’io.
“ From the personal experience of those who have used
your tonic, and from my own experience of same, I can say
that it has very special qualifications as a nerve and brain
medicine for anyone requiring it, especially in cases of
Nervous Breakdown, Brain-fag or Insomnia. It is also
beneficial in creating a good appetite and aiding the digestive
organs. It seems to me what it is claimed to be, ‘ a nerve and
brain tonic,’ from the testimony of those who have used it.
“ Faithfully yours, RICHARD HEFFERNAN, V.D.”
Those who suffer from Anaemia or Poor Blood, Lassitude or Weakness, Poor Digestion
and Appetite, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Low Spirits, Broken Rest, or Bad Kidneys should
use it. They will find it gives renewed strength and health. It proves its worth by the tes-
timoni.es accorded it. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.


“For Valour”
The foundation of all greatness is
laid in the food of the children,
which should give them the strength
of future years—the courage of life.
Cerebos
Saif
makes all food more nourishing.
Agents—Harrison and Attwood, Sydney.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days' approval, oar
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, ami
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £&
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
P TOO to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Lame oroflt.
easily made. Write _iv.
for free Art Catalogu
pijcb. using sufficient postage,
es and our Speolal Offer
an (ample machine.
MEAD CYCLE C0..d. p ,28o LIVERPOOL
a« JAS * J * GIL TINAN, Agent,
Clarence Street. SYDNEY
BLED TO DEATH.
*
NOBODY KNEW FIRST-AID.
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.
Irt the absence of the knowledge of the prin-
ciples of first-aid by those about him, Thomas
Howland, farmer, 50 years of age, bled to death
to-day at his home, four miles from Dimboola.
Howland knocked an ulcerous sore and burst a
varicose vein near the ankle. His daughter
attempted to stanch the bleeding by applying
flour, but this had no effect, and he died within
10 minutes.
The above news item will serve to show how fallacious
is the opinion held by many sufferers from Varicose
Veins that they are “ really not dangerous.'*
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, or have a relation or
friend who does, and if the veins should burst, would you
know what to do ? Let us send you an illustrated free
book describing Varicose Veins in all their forms, the
methods to adopt in bandaging, and the course to pursue
if they should burst. This book also fully describes the
vecsey Method of treating and curing Varicose Veins
without operations.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of
Treatment comes as a great boon. Previous to its dis-
covery no painless, permanent palliative was known.
It cures the veins absolutely, and once cured thev do
not return. J
Do not fail to send for our free book, which gives full
information and particulars. Post free to any address
upon receipt of 2d. stamp. Call for free advice.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney,
Corner Market and Castlereagh Streets.
Lift to 2nd Floor.
[606
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT I
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PATENTS
A
ColIison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
I doubt you wish to becured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
AN Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
$
.y
iws»J!&!r
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 (EL 2/6.
have stood fame!
Bonningtons
Irish Moss
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
*0
&
HOU
IRISH
r-N
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
HEALTHFUL.
ECONOMICAL.
CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS " Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
IV
f IDEAL FOOD %
-for children From birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constit-
uents in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch, and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infant Foods containing’ Starch.
_ . Cooking. No added Milk.
Of all Chemists, Wholesale & Retail Stores
Samples : 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Eng!
ihiJl
/
Latest Evolution of Modern Pharmacy.
“ GOLCRYST ” is a Combination of
Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger.
crystals dissolve in water, forming
a Blood-Purifying and Rheumatism-Curing
Aperient Medicine.
SOLD IN 3d., 6d. and Is. PACKETS.
Write for Free Sample to the Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., MELBOURNE.
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
•rS ,
1»
sr>s
*SK
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERB
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
Zaw Points
inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing- your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicet3 - of drawing is not essential -
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cc/dially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings. Collins Street, Melbourne.
<3/ft(9/ne
removes soil, stains, spots, scratches,
greasy finger-marks. Brings out the
natural finish of the wood beneath a bright
lasting lustre. Not a varnish, not a paint,
but an oil compound free from grease, acid
or odor. Won’t gum—collect dust, or soil
the clothes. Helps any furniture.
Write for free sample to
REID & REID (Dept, A J, Australasian
Wellington, New Zealand.
*
NATURE’S lines are graceful,
smooth flowing, healthy lines
like the Venus Medeci not
broken, injurious, and harsh as
produced by the ordinary corset.
Nature intended you to have graceful, smooth
and flowing lines —these are the lines our new
Corset, the D & A Diredtoire gives you.
The resultant health you 11 enjoy by wearing
the D& A Diredtoire—the resultant fine shapely
physique are Nature s smiles of approval.
We looked the fashion centres of the world
over in our quest for a perfect corset.
Our designers studied the styles at the
Longchamps race-track, Paris, in the tea rooms
where fashion’s leaders meet, in the great dress-
making establishments of the Rue de la Paix.
Then our ideas were developed on the human
form, and our D & A Diredoire is the result
See it before buying your new corset.
For Sale at all leading drapers. A.-4
THE DOMINION CORSET COMPANY, QUEBEC, Can.
CANADIAN
CORSET
&/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OR TWELVE f(f. PACKET CF TEN sd.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Whalers’ Shed.
The Magpie, ketch, with firewood
From Barrenjoey Head,
Lay snugly berthed at Mosman
’Longside the whalers’ shed,
Stacked taffrail-high with box and gum ;
Her boom swung barely free—
You need be slick or lose a stick
When ketches sail the sea.
’Tis reef and luff,
And rough enough,
Brave boys, out on the sea.
Red Pirate—so they named him—
Was crew and skipper-o ;
He wore a shirt of scarlet
And tapped a timber-toe ;
Red-whiskered, like a hardy Norse,
He’d red unbarbered hair,
And eyes so mild they’d soothe a child—
His one lean foot was bare.
Sing hey, sing ho,
Old Timber-Toe,
His one lean foot was bare!
Five knots an hour from Broken,
Her Plimsoll-mark hard down.
Her dirty yellow canvas,
All patched with dingy brown,
At Bradley’s hung as flat as boards—
He swept her in like lead
To Mosman wharf, the old stone wharf,
’Longside the whalers’ shed ;
Heave ho, heave hey,
To Mosman Bay,
’Longside the whalers’ shed !
The Mosman lights were glinting
Like stars between the trees,
The night was all-suggestive
Of harbor mysteries;
Red Pirate smoked the pipe of peace,
And watched the ferries glide
A-blaze with lights and thoughts o’ nights
When whalers beat the tide—
When whaler-crew
And whale-fish blue.
Came swimming with the tide.
Red Pirate, old wood-freighter,
By light of midnight stars,
Abaft the battered hooker
Espied a whaler’s spars.
He smelt the blubber-reek and groped
Aside for his harpoon,
And, dream or no, old Timber-Toe
Began a chantey-tune—
“ Ho, there she blows,
To where she blows !”
He hummed a chantey-tune.
Red Pirate, young harpooner.
Stood by to cast the steel,
Boat-steerer and line-coilers,
Brave sailor-men at heel ;
“ To where she blows !” they followed fast
With wildly-quickened wits,
He struck the whale, she flicked her tail,
And smashed the boat to bits;
Red Pirate cried,
From out the tide :
“ Oh, lads ! I’m smashed to bits ! ”
They filled his hat with dollars
And cheered him from the bay,
And cheered him when the Magpie
Came tacking in one day,
With hull and taffrail painted blue,
A n< l coachhouse red and green—
She s carried ten new suits since then,
But never painted been;
She’s had her joys
And griefs, brave boys,
But never painted been.
Some swore he was a pirate;
In stealthy whispers, they
Declared he hoarded treasure
A-down by Broken Bay ;
But one that heard him hum a song
A chantey-song— recites
silent, gaunt, dead whalers haunt
The whalers’ shed o’ nights,
In language terse
They wail and curse
The poster-fiend o’ nights !
The Magpie ketch, for Mosman,
Passed Barrenjoey Light.
At sundown a nor’-easter
Came with the starless night!
Howe’er it were—a flying jibe,
A squall, or "Rocks Ahead !”
ext day at e’en in Narrabeen
Drift wreckage curvetted. . ..
’Twas years ago,
But Timber-Toe
Still haunts the whalers’-shed.
N ' s
W. M. WHITNEY.
At Eventide.
At eventide, when glaring bars
Claim those who turn to boozing,
I wander out beneath the stars
And lose myself in musing.
Then fades the future and the past,
And I, dream-led at even,
Am metamorphosed ’neath the vast
Concavity of Heaven.
I wear a gorgeous uniform
(Lord! how it charms the ladies!).
And towering citadels I storm,
Like someone loose from Hades!
I whirl a sword in battle smoke.
While cannons roar and thunder.
I seem a most tremendous bloke
At tearing ranks asunder !
I feel the pressure of a crown !
My brain’s immensely supple—
I pull a score of kingdoms down,
I also build a couple !
But . . . looming largely in the dark
1 see a form—and know it—
It is a small financial shark.
And fifteen bob I owe it!
Future and past environ me,
Perish my Eldorados !
I dodge the lamp-light skilfullee,
And sneak home in the shadows *
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
■* l.< x ' ' * .-A-
fcgJu 'V- <► V- *. •v- V.'V Jf. »
Lnji
sai'V*
CLOSED AS COUCH
SK
3*.
§§s£
=«c*i
3k
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered. ...
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
... fid
... 5d
SAVE MONEY
by buying one of SAWYER'S VEHICLES- They cannot be
equalled for Bfeauty of Design, Durability and Light Running.
Fadories WOLLONGONG and NEWTOWN.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
■ CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full_particid^
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
:v,"'
»«)
<r
&
>ll. I
QtMEGA
W/TCHES
IF THEIR COST WERE
TEN TIMES WHAT IT IS f
OMEGA Watches would
still be “ worth the
money.” The enormous
facilities of production
in the OMEGA factory
have, however, brought
the price of OMEGA
Watches within the
scope of the most
modest purse.
In COLD, SILVER, NICKEL and CUNMETAL CABES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
ABDVLLA
CIGARETTES.
Made of the finest selected Turkish,
Egyptian and Virginian Tobacco.
Awarded Grand Prix against all
comers at the present Japan-British
Exhibition.
&
PALQETY&C? LT?
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA.
W
m
.
3555
No. G42S6—Finest quality cSilverplate on
Hard White Metal, Embossed Pattern
Biscuit Box, £2/7/6.
Wo. 84990 —Finest quality Silverplate on Hard
White Metal, Revolving Vegetable Dish. Each
dish can be removed and ueed separately.
£6/61-
TEWART DAWSON f,
STRAND
CORNER,
412 George Street, Sydney.
HANDSOME WEDDING PRESENTS in Sterling Silver and Electroplate.
THOSE of you who are interested in approaching Weddings should make a point of
inspecting our fine selection of High-Grade Goods. As we purchase direct frmn
only the actual manufacturers for Spot Cash, you may be sure of getting supreme
value for every shilling spent with us. Our stocks are always u P; to :f at ®“ ea^J v ® el '
sees new shipments arriving. If you are unable to call, write for our new Art
Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully Illustrated in fine art cover. We post it Free!
No. 5263—Best quality Silver-plated
2-Bottle Inkstand, 16/6.
No. J26ls—Solid Silver
Flower Vase, 8 inches
high, 21/-
No. G4269—Finest quality Sheffield '.Silverplate
Asparagus Dish, with Removable Rack, £2.
No. J2BB2—Fine Cut Glass and Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Dinner Cruet, 16/6.
Other designs at 27/6, 37/6, 50/-
No. P4B49—Embossed anti Fluted
Silverplated Fern Pot—
4in., 22/6 4£in., 27/6
6fin., £2 'Sin., £3/7/6
No. H2o9s—Handsome Claret
■ Jug, Finest Out Glass and
Silverplate, £3/15/-
Ottaers at 16/6, 25/-, 35/-, 60/-
"Siv+\c^r. ;
re
m
i
•'§*
ir
&
sm
a
s
No. G2s34—Finest quality Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Triple-Expanding
Biscuit Box, £B/10/-
No. F942l—Six Solid Silver Afternoon Cake Forks
with Mother of Pearl Handles, in Silk-lined Case, £3
No. H366—Fine Polished Oak Tray, with best
quality Silverplated Pierced Border Mounts,
20 inches long, £4/10/-
Other designs from £l/5/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1597.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1910.
Pbice 6d.
SCORNING A REFERENDUM.
T he Ya ssberra, vote in the Senate last week resulted in a dead-heat. Nevertheless, Mr. Hughes (Attorney-General) says that
"finality has been reached, [?] a Bill to provide for taking over the Yassberra territory will be passed without delay.
L.B.M.: “Here, you re steering for Yassberra, and I told you to hold off and wait for owner’s instructions.”
HUGHES: “Owner’s instructions be blowed! My girl lives at Sydney, near Yassberra-and what’s owner’s instructions against
a man’s own girl?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musyrave and McLeod Streets. Mosman. for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper 00.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. IN.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
"TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City.
7’RUMS TO SUTiSORIJiRRS.
(In Advance. Only)
Per Annum ... ... £l6 0
Half-pearly ... . 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ’ ’ 0 7 0
*.V ending direct to Tiik Bum.ktin Office Twenty-Six
Unlhnps sterling you can have Ttik TUii.i.kttn posted
i egularly to you every ireek for a- year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
11 be addressed to William Maulkoii. Manayinp Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Thr Bullktin would ohliae the nane.r
(and, to an extent, themselves) by ta.ki.na some care a.s to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with reyard to snhscri.ntions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case he addressed to the Editor,
hut to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a yood thiny to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Hitllictin." is the nroper
superscript ion for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressi.no to persons instead of
oft rials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to he refused.
The contents of this paper are copyri.yht by the nub-
Ushers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivi columns in length, or, say, At>oo words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tun Biili.kttn udll return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But. no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention, Thk Bitllictin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bullktin ori.idnal humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and. adapted for iiirkct reproduction, or
anit interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but untitled for direct reproduction
—i-e., any picture which has to be re-dra.wn~tvi.il be. paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
.applying to MS.
Thr Bullktin is forwarded, direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West, Australia, Queensland. Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at b/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from, Messrs. Gordon and
Got eh, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolbnrn, London. W.C.
South Africa.- —The Central Hews Agency, Canetoivn;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancou v icr. Thomson Stationery Co. . I 'a.ncouver, B. C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A .—lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; 1 nternational
Neivs Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and. Neivs Stores, Port Said,
HongKong. —Brewer and Co.. Pedd.er-st., Hong Kong.
.Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
'Tiik Bullictin metal advertising plates,size 6sin. x Ihin.,
will be forwarded, on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1910.
THE WHOLE OFFENCE OF WADEISM.
Anti-Labok in N.S.W. has taken to a thin old
device in the struggle to save its Wade. The
idea is to represent that Labor accuses Wade of
being a criminal, and then to show that this sensa-
tional allegation (which, as a matter of fact, no-
body has ever made) is untrue ; from which it is
.argued that his assailants are necessarily such
.-slanderous mud-slingers as to be unworthy the
.attention of decent men on any subject whatever.
,In pursuance of this plan, the Evening News
refers scornfully and often to “the wicked
Wade,” and the Telegraph becomes satirical:—
Such a blood-thirsty Ministry never existed in this or
any other country ; it would take the life of anyone it
could get hold of. ... Mr. Wade had no more intention
.of torturing the ancient wife-deserter to death five years
; ago than he had afterwards of similarly treating the
cmythical rockchopper, or of plotting to take the life of
iPf.ter Bowling.
.And much more to the same effect. It is known
avs “ clouding the issue”—a common trick with
those who are right up against it. In this case, it
doesn’t cloud to any extent worth mentioning.
No one has been so absurdly superfluous as to
attack Wade on the moral side. It is freely
granted everywhere that he is a man of probity,
that his family life is above reproach, that he pays
his way, swindles no one and would recoil from
murder or the mere thought of it with as much
fervor as C.J. Cullen himself. The trouble
is that these everyday attributes don’t avail
to make Wade an intelligent and humane
administrator, or a decent Crown law adviser,
or a good Democrat, or even a Liberal in the
rightful acceptation of the term ; nor do they make
him anv one of the 150 other things a civilised
State looks for in its Premier. Wade is repre-
sented by his supporters and the Tory press as
having suffered intolerable wrong, owing to his
political opponents heaving at his sensitive head
the McKye case and kindred breaks on his part.
But just where the wrong conies in—unless it is
wrong to state any fact whatever to the detriment
of Wadk —is hard to see. So far as the McKye
case is concerned, the records of the court show
the position with perfect clearness. Until those
records are dynamited, together with a whole
army of witnesses, it is futile for the loudest of
“Liberal” yappers to deny that the gentleman
whom they describe as “the rich baker” was
fined £l5O for repeated offences against tlje In-
dustrial Disputes Act, and afterwards freed of
half the penalty by Wadk, without reference to
the Judge who tried the case. By taking that
step, Wadk permitted a twice-convicted haunter
of his own Act to break the law for nothing, and
be a bit to the good besides. McKye saved £B5
in wages by underpaying his employees, and was
only fined £75 for it—which is something the
same as if McNab were mulcted in a five-pound
note for stealing and sticking to £7 10s. Wade’s
handling of the McKye case doesn’t amount to
criminality or wickedness or anything of that
sort, nor has anyone outside the ranks of his own
supporters been such a tragic ass as to suggest it
did. But it is a glaring instance of perfectly
rotten administration.
* * * *
As Attorney-General, Wade has been a com-
bined disaster and public nuisance from the start.
He has cost the State of N.S. W. more money, in
the form of law-expenses, than any of his prede-
cessors, as a result of his extraordinary mania for
litigation, and at the same time he has done a lot to
lay the purity of the Courts open to suspicion.
This hasn’t been due, in any sense, to innate
wickedness, but simply to sheer, hopeless incom-
petence. Consideration of Wade’s record as a
litigant sheets home the dreary fact that he is
about as much fitted to run a Law Department as
he is to steer, stoke and navigate a battle-
ship. That is not to say that there is any-
thing ethically wrong with him, but only that the
job is too big for him. It wasn’t wickedness that
inspired the idiotic wire-netting business, owing
to which N.S.W. suffered the humiliation
of being dragged to Court by the ear, as it were,
and fined; it wasn’t wickedness that caused the
vast heap of other law-cases in which the N.S. W.
Government went down with a bump at the ex-
pense of the N.S.W. taxpayer; it wasn’t wicked-
ness that was responsible for the two cases in which
Wadk gained victories of the Pyrrhic variety—
the Hart case, where the State, after tremendous
litigation, won and scored five shillings; and the
Greville case, where, after two years steady
Costs, the State won and scored nothing what-
ever. It wasn’t even wickedness that produced
the Bowling jury-panel affair, wherein the police
were instructed, before Bowling was put on his
trial, to take the jury panel and “sound” the
jurors who were on it, regarding, as Wade naively
put it, their “impartiality.” The wicked mostly
do things more subtly than this. All through the
piece Wade has shown himself not villainous, but
simply fatuous and blundering, and possessed of
an awful knack of falling into the soup on the
lightest provocation, and remaining in it for long
periods.
* * * *
This weakness has been shown as much in his
attitude towards every new legislative Act that
has been cried for by the populace, as by his ad-
ministration of the Acts already on the statute
book. When the clerks first started to hesita-
tingly suggest they might be accorded a Wages
Board, W ADE turned and rent them. He short-
sightedly scoffed at the idea of this humble and
jumped-on class getting the same consideration as
wharf-lumpers and suchlike aggressive people.
Then came the Clerks’ Union and the Horror of
the 13th April;' and Wade, who had committed
himself hopelessly against Wages Boards for
clerks, climbed rapidly down. For years Wade,
as became a good Sydney lawyer, fought for
Sydney centralisation. Latterly, the clamor from
the country districts on the question of the
strangled ports grew too deafening, and Wade
was fain to make a show of going back on the
vested interests of Sydney and appoint a Royal
Commission. It is almost superfluous to note
that the concessions to the clerks are so framed
that the clerks probably won’t thereby benefit to
the extent of a farthing among the lot of them ;
also, it is unnecessary to remark that the Centrali-
sation Commission isn’t likely to do a thing to
prejudice Sydney or advance the fortunes of the
harassed outbackers. Wade’s attitude towards
the changing: aspects of these and other questions
of the sort has not been wicked ; it has simply
been feckless and foolish. He followed his
natural intensely-Conservative bent in opposing
them furiously at first, and, when he had to yield,
he yielded in such a way as to make the fewest
concessions to democracy that were possible. He
has probably acted within his lights, and it isn’t
his fault that they happen to be dim ones ; but he
is none the less a tragedy as Premier of N.S.W.
He is a tragedy, not because he is bad, but because
he is stupid. The worst has been said about
him when that has been said, for indeed
it is the worst that can lie said about
anyone in his position. A confirmed evil-
liver, gifted with a moderate degree of
intelligence, would have avoided half the ruinous
errors of administration and legislation that have
stained the Wade regime ; and it is hard to think
he would have perpetrated any fresh ones. The
worst sovereign England ever had—one who was
so insupportable that the people arose in despera-
tion ultimately and removed his head—was one
of the few whose moral character stood above re-
proach. The great Pitt, on the other hand, habi-
tually drank himself sick, and Fox gambled till
he was bankrupt. In short, the ethical standpoint
of the Sabbath-school teacher is not essential
to statesmanship. It may be a good thing to
have, just as a knowledge of the Catechism
is admirable in a Hoogly River pilot. But the
real crying need is the man of capacity who can
accomplish his task without disaster or loss. No
one, outside a Sydney Telegraph cartoon, thinks
Wade “wicked” or “bloody-minded.” His
entire misfortune—which is, incidentally, the
misfortune of N.S.W.—is that everyone with a
fragment of perception realises that he is a
deplorably narrow, short-sighted, shifty and
mentally-inferior person, of the type which does
well enough presiding over a Progress Associa-
tion meeting or a suburban municipal council, but
as Premier of a large and populous State is an
anomaly.
THE DUTCHMEN AT OUR DOORS
Though next-door neighbors, Holland and Aus-
tralia have been total strangers ; and the visit of
the Dutchmen, in part of their East India fleet,
serves as a sort of formal.introduction. Happily,
we have Australia to ourselves ; but Papua we
share with the Netherlands, which holds, besides,
nearly all of that wonderful island chain stretched
from Cape York to the Asiatic coast. We are
more even than neighbors. For years this con-
tinent carried the alternative name of New Hol-
land ; and though the title had no hope of sticking,
it is significant, nevertheless, of the ser-
vices of the Dutch navigators of two and three
centuries ago. That a Van Something is not
Governor-General in place of u Dudley is only
clue to the fact that little Holland didn’t possess
enough colonizers to go round, and not enough
' capital to pay them to go round even if it had
possessed them. Even to-day the population of
the kingdom is but millions ; and when, with
but half that number, it formerly considered its
East Indies and their possibilities, it concluded
that it had helped itself to all it could comfortably
chew. For those Dutchmen did not humbug
themselves with hypocritical yarns about spread-
ing the blessings of civilisation. They were out
after trade, and they owned up to it frankly.
Van Diemen, that Governor at Bata via whose name
is still as well preserved in Australia as it is in
Holland, had his own ambitions ; but the halter
of cold commercial considerations was thrown
over his head. There is a record of the letter
the “ Lords Managers ” wrote to him :
We do not expect great things of the continuation of
such explorations, which more and more burden the
Company’s resources, since they reqpire increase of
yachts and sailors. We do not consider it part of our
task to seek out gold and silver mines for the Company.
The gold and silver mines that will best serve the Com-
pany’s turn have already been found, which we deem to
be our trade over the whole of the Indies.
Thus Van Diemen was pulled up short, and the
gold and silver mines that he had cunningly
dangled before the eyes of the “ Lords Managers”
were left unfound for another 200 years. But,
though they got none of the reward in the shape
of the trade which was the only thing the
“Lords Managers” worried about, they branded
the Australian coast from CapeLeeuwin to Coen ;
and they gave, possibly for all time, the name of
their commander, Tasman, to Australia's island
State. To a hard-bargaining Dutchman, per-
haps less than most .people, that kind of monu-
ment is very poor pay ; wherefore the least we
call add now' is a “Thank you.” If it is rather
late in the day, it is hardly our fault.
* H * *
But besides the welcome Australia owes the
Dutchman because of these historical assoc.a-
tions, it owes him one on the more practical
ground that some day be may be of service to us,
just as we may be to him. For one thing above
all others Holland stands in the East Indies—the
supremacy of the white man. Audit is obviously
over that matter that Australia is most liable to
have its great trouble. Even the most thorough-
going White Australian has not dug such a wide
and deep gulf between the white man and all
others as the Dutch have officially decreed in
their East Indies. It is quite true that there has
been a good deal of the mixing of blood. But
while the Dutchman, deplores it, he points out
—apparently with complete truth—that even in
that matter the sovereignty of the white
has in a way been preserved; for while the
white man may take the native woman, it
is utterly unthinkable for a colored man to look
in the same way upon a white woman. Whether
he he prince or coolie, the colored man knows that
the line may never he crossed ; and the lesson has
been taught so well that apparently he never
thinks of crossing it. That there is some self-
interest at the bottom of the Dutch policy is quite
possible. The brown population of the one island
of Java alone is six times greater than the entire
white population of the kingdom of Holland, and
about 450 times greater than the whole of the
white population of the island. A nation facing
that kind of proposition can’t afford to encourage
ideas of racial equality; and still less could it
afford to stand by and see the white race of a
neighboring island go under before the onslaught
of colored invaders.
* * * *
And the Dutchmen may need our help, too.
It is not that their rule in the East Indies has not
been successful. On the contrary, their vast suc-
cess constitutes their danger. In 1795 the island
of Java, by far the most important of the archi-
pelago, had a population of only about 3,500,000.
Down to that time wars and pestilences had pre-
vented any rapid growth of numbers. But tribal
wars were stamped out and pestilences were pre-
vented—or, at any rate, minimised—and since
then the population has, on the average,
doubled every 30 years. To-day a count
of heads would give a total of something
between 32,000,000 and 35,000,000 —probably
the most amazing growth of population that the
nineteenth century witnessed, and the most
astounding tribute to the success of the Dutch
methods of government. It is all very well so
long as the subject-race is content to keep in sub-
jection; but obviously the tremendous growth of
the subject rhce in numbers would add enor-
mously also to Holland’s difficulties supposing the
race decided that it would not remain in sub-
jection any longer. No Hollander in the Indies
openly speaks of such a thing as a native
outburst; but that "he dreads it is clear
from the fact that his best energies are
devoted to nipping in the bud any movement that
might possibly lead to trouble. No doubt he is
helped by the fact that the more the natives be-
come educated the better they can understand the
vast improvement that the Dutch have wrought
in the condition of the islands. And the mure
they learn of the status of other subject races, the
more they are likely to appreciate the degree of
self-government which the Dutch concede to the
Javanese and other natives of the East Indies.
With most of their laws and customs no inter-
ference whatever has been attempted. Holland has
not, for instance, grabbed their land and parcelled it
out among absentee and other white landlords. All
the money in Holland could not buy a square
mile of territory in Java. True, there is a little
private property there; but none has been got
rid of for close upon a hundred years. To save
him from himself—and he is mostly a shiftless
person who takes k good deal of saving—it is put
out of the power of even the native to traffic in
his land. Nominally he does not own it ; he
simply has the right to use it, and the village sees
that he does use it. Either he uses it or he loses
it. There can be no progress, says the heated
Australian opponent of land taxation, where
there is not an absolute title to land, which neces-
sarily involves the right to do as the owner pleases
with it. Java’s growth of population f.om
3,500,000 in 1795 to 32,000,000 in 1910 is a com-
plete answer to that; and the Dutch fleet drops
in conveniently to stress the point.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Half a Million Going Begging.
A return which Customs-Minister Tudor laid
before the House of Reps, lately should make
him and his fellow Ministers think. It sets forth
in so many words the failure of the bounty sys-
tem of encouraging manufactures —at least, as it
has been practised so far. Under the Bounties
Act of 1907, and the lion Bounties Act, 1908, the
Commonwealth offered £571.500, and of that sum
only £24.218 has been claimed and paid. Here
are the details :
Amount Amount
offered, claimed.
Ginned cotton .. £lB,OOO £76
Tobacco leaf .. .. .. .. 12,000 397
Preserved lisli 30,000 2,038
Cotton seed .. .. .. .. 3,000 22
Flax Fibre .. .. .. .. 24,000 : 240
Sisal hemp 9,000 59
Coffee, raw .. .. .. .. 4,500 348
Dried Fruits 18,000 1,193
Combed wool .. .. .. .. 30,000 5,259
M. L. flax .. .. .. .. .. 9,000
Jute 27,000
Linseed .. 15,000 6
Uncleaned rice .. .. .. .. 3,000
Rubber .. .. .. .. .. 6,000
Dried dates .. .. .. 3,000
Pig and bar iron and steel .. .. 300,000 12,432
Galvanised iron, wire and tubes .. 60,000 2,142
£571,500 £24,218
And, of the £24,218 that has been paid, far more
than half has gone to one firm, G. and O.
Hoskins. Putting this latter aside as a special
case, the bounty has been apparently effective in
but two items, combed wool and preserved fish ;
and in the latter its virtue seems to have already
lost its savor, for though nothing was paid the
first year, £1727 was paid in the second, and only
£3ll in the third. As most of these offers
to Private Enterprise expire in 1912, it is
evident that the new industries they are likely
to set going won’t be worth noticing; where-
fore Tudor, Fisher and Co. are invited to
consider why. One reason is the brief period for
which the bounties are offered. Nobody can rely
on getting anything after 1912, wherefore the
necessary help is liable to be withdrawn long
before the enterprising pioneer of a new industry
has found his feet and can fight competition.
Another reason is the humorously inadequate sum
offered, though the £3OOO set aside to start the
rice-growing profession and the £4500 for coffee
are more grotesque than amusing. But the chief
reason, as exemplified by the case of jute, is lack
of faith in the permanence of the tariff. Even
though in a few instances fair Protection is
already given, neither the present Government nor
the previous one could be relied on to guarantee a
continuance of effective Protection — effective
against the cheap labor of India, for instance—for
10 or 15 years. Given such a declaration on the part
of Labor, and the appointment of a small, work-
able tariff committee with power to raise duties
at short notice, but always giving proper effect
to the policy of Protection, the grower and manu-
facturer would feel moderately sure of keeping
solvent even if the policy of giving bonuses were
reversed at the end of a decade. But to expect a
man to start a big industry in competition, per-
haps, with the cheap labor of Asia on the offer of
a bonus of £3OOO, of which he might get only a
small portion, and which might cease altogether
in four or five years, is merely fooling with a
serious problem.
Help from the Enemy.
A favorite plan of the people who are kicking
against the Progressive Land Tax is to recoid the
case of poor Thinshanks, owner of Grabthelot.
Poor old Thinshanks, it seems, has a property
worth £lOO,OOO. and the tax will come to £3500 or
so a year; yet, to show how monstrous the
Commonwealth Government’s proposal is, poor-
old Thinshanks has only been making £5OOO a
year out of the property. Poor old Thinshanks
has been heard of now from every State. He
appeared at the Sydney meeting of “ protest ” the
other day :
There was an area of 44,711 acres, the unimproved
value of which was £107,850. The total tax at the rate, in
this case, of 7d. in the £ would be £3146. That made a
capital value at 5 per cent, of nearly £63,000. The average
net income of that estate for the last five years, without
taking into consideration interest, was £5396. The per-
centage of taxes to the average net income was 58"29 per-
cent. The amount of tax in the £on income was nearly
11s. Bd.
That is supposed to settle the matter. There can
be no discussion beyond that. The gentlemen
who use this alleged argument apparently don’t
see that they are supplying instances to
prove the chief contention of the land-taxers.
If property with an unimproved value of
£107,850 is yielding only £5390 a year, it is
fairly plain that it is not being put to its best use.
Many a farmer with only £3OOO worth of land
makes £5OO a year, and lately has been making a
great deal more than that. Either, then, the
estate alleged to be worth £107,850 a year isn't
worth that much (in which case it wouldn’t carry
the tax mentioned) or it is being held out of its
most profitable use ; and in the latter ease the
country is being robbed of some of the wealth
that it ought to be producing.
Bellowdrama in Politics.
This is the kind of mock-heroism that the Sydney
papers have taken to latterly :
The Premier will beard the strike lion in his own den
by speaking to-night at Newcastle.
And again :
The energy of the State Premier continues unabated.
Having boldly faced his opponents at Newcastle, he
caught the late train for the north.
And elsewhere Wade is represented as bhing
counselled, for his own sake, to speak to the
blood-thirsty devils of Newcastle “through the
telephone”; while the action of Jock Garland,
in “hitting straight from the shoulder,” “pre-
senting an unflinching front to the Labor-
ites,” “attacking the enemy’s stronghold
with undaunted courage” and so on, is re-
ferred to as though this cautious little
Scotsman were a combination of Napoleon
I. and J. Johnson. What mysterious peril con-
fronts Wade, Garland and the rest, when going;
about their political business, anyhow ? Where
is the fearlessness in addressing any crowd of
Australian Labor sympathisers? The
party has been in existence in Australia a good
many years now. It has had to endure, during
that time, fairly harsh verbal assaults. And the
list of platform-speakers whom it has killed or
injured is small—so small that this paper hasn’t,
hitherto, been able to identify it with the
naked eye. The plain fact, which can be verified
by a visit to any of the meetings addressed
by the most vituperative of anti-Laborites,
is that the Australian worker, who goes election-!
eering, is one of the most harmless and good-i
humored characters in existence. He doesn’t gpt
infuriated with his Wades and Woods and Gar-
lands. The very worst he does is to jeer at them.
Crude melodrama apart. Wade stood in precisely
the same peril when he spoke at Newcastle,
as if he had been arguing a law point
in the Equity Court—which is to say, bar-
ring the act of God, none at all. He
was in a far more perilous position in
the old days when he acted as Crown Prosecutor.
There arc cases on record where officers of the
Court have been murderously assailed while in the
execution of their duty. Only the other day a
dipsomaniacal old lady hurled an inkbottleat the
skull of a Sydney Water Police Court official.
But nothing of that sort happens to anti-Lahorites


who go in for “bearding strike lions” and such-
like pastimes. No one even throws an egg at them
these unsensational days. A laugh, an awkward
question or two—these are the deadliest weapons
in the armory of the modern Australian Laborite.
Since no platform speaker, however sensitive, is
likely to suffer serious damage from being ques-
tioned or laughed at, it is difficult to understand
the justification for this sudden journalistic dive
into the flamboyant phraseology of the Deadwood
Dick novelette.
The Remarkably Varied Constituencies
of N.S.W.
The main electoral rolls have been got in readi-
ness for the approaching Cornstalk election, and
the first impression they give is one of staggering
discrepancy. N.S.W. has the principle of One
Adult One Vote. It is also supposed to recognise
the principle of One Vote One Value ; but when
the number of electors who are required to return
one member is anything from under 5000 to over
16,000 the ideaof One Vote One Vaiueseemsto have
been very recklessly thrown overboard. Here,
for instance, are the seven largest constituencies
and the seven smallest ones as things stand at
present:—
Northumberland, Middle Harbor, Canterbury, St.
George, Waverley, Lane Cove and Randwiok : Total
voters on roll, 95,560 ; average per member, 13,651.
Darling, Clyde, Monaro, Queanbeyan, Deniliquin,
Wynyard and Allowrie: Total voters on roll, 42,570 ;
average per member, 6081.
The discrepancy is amazing, and one naturally
inquires how it came about, for it is dead certain
that the electoral districts weren’t originally laid
out so as to produce any such result. On com-
paring the present year’s figures with those given
in the “ Year Book of Australia” for 1907 (pages
313 to 316), as existing at the time of the general
election of 1904, it appears that the trouble has
practically all grown up in six years. It was in
1904 that the Assembly was reduced to 90 mem-
bers. The constituencies were then quite new,
and had been arranged as mathematically as
possible, but these changes have happened along
since
Electors, Electors,
' 1904. 1910.
Northumberland .. 8,068 16,205 Inc. 8,137
Middle Harbor .. 8,964 15,185 „ 6,221
Canterbury .. 8,397 14,157 „ 5,760
St. George .. .. 8,346 12,938 „ 4,592
Waverley .. .. 8,724 12,607 „ 3,883
Lane Cove .. .. 9,121 12,326 „ 3,205
Randwick .. .. 7,516 12,142 „ 4,626
59,136 95,560 „ 36,424
Electors, Electors,
1904. 1910.
Darling .. .. 7,200 4,872 Dec. 2328
01 -v<le .. . 5,607 5,318 289
Monaro .. .. 6,068 6,182 Inc. 114
Queanbeyan .. 6,537 6,399 Dec. 138
Dendiqmn .. .. 6,349 6,493 Inc. 144
Wynyard .. .. 6,386 6,592 ~ 206
Allowrie .. .. 8,218 6,714 Dec. 1504
46,365 42,570 Dec. 3795
That explains the 14 worst discrepancies. The
two sets started fairly level, but in six years the
seven purely country constituencies have lost
3795 voters, while the six Sydney constituencies
and the one coal-mining constituency attached to
the big town which ranks second to Sydney have
gained 36,424. It is a wonderful result of the
congestion policy—the policy of dragging every-
thing to Sydney that isn’t so hot or so heavy as to
be undraggable. Yet the list of dreadful in-
stances isn’t by any means exhausted. There are
two other country constituencies (Bathurst and
Blayney) which are in the fading category, mak-
ing nine in all ; and, in addition, there are many
others where the figures are almost stationary.
Obviously, there will soon have to be a re-distri-
bution of voting power, and members will have to
be taken from the country and given to the city ;
and the political preponderance of Sydney, which
is already very marked, will become still more
conspicuous. Probably the party in power will
regard that result as rather desirable than other-
wise ; but there are many people who have doubts
about the wisdom of a policy which aimsiat the
making of a State which shall be mostly head,
very little body and no tail.
The Drift from Tasmania.
As Tasmania has for many years been actually
losing more people by emigration than it has
been gaining by immigration, and as its total of
citizens is now only equal to that of a decent
town, it might have been expected that any pro-
posed alteration in its economic conditions would
be at least cheerfully, if not thankfully, received.
For Tasmania has no drought problem ; it has
several excellent ports ; it is an extremely healthy
place ; and it has a wide variety of natural re-
sources. It is. therefore, only fair to assume that
the reason of its going backwards is to be found
in mismanagement and bad legislation. No
sooner, however, does the Australian Govern-
ment propose to really do something to stop the
disaster from which Tasmania in particular is suf-
fering, than the air is filled with wails and moans.
It is impossible for the wailers to deny that more
people are clearing out than are coming in ; but
the thing is explained by the Australasian in
this fashion
The truth is that, although Tasmania has a reputation
for having a fertile soil, there is a large quantity of land
fit only for the rearing of sheep, and not very good ever,
for that; and, if a heavy tax has to be paid, these areas
will cease to yield a profit, and will be abandoned.
Here, once more, we have the delightful apostle
of Stinking Fish—the unpatriotic person who,'to
save his own skin, is prepared at any moment to
traduce his country and cry its alleged poverty
to the world. This paper, having a thirst for
details, will be glad to receive particulars of
those sheep-stations which are to be “abandoned.”
It would also like to know whether amongst them
there are any of the huge holdings of the iniquit-
ous V.D.L. Co. —the absentee who has been lying,
like a whale, on the chest of Tasmania for half a
century. Until it gets those particulars it will
kick the “ abandoned land ” bogey into the same
heap with the Petriana myth and the Six Hatters
perjury. Prima facie , Tasmania calls for some
reform. A country which is losing population
the best and most vigorous of its population—
obviously needs a change of some sort. Fisher
offers one. If that isn’t the right one, what is ?
It is not enough for its opponents to say it won’t
do; in view of Tasmania’s disastrous drift, they
must be prepared to suggest one that will do.
_— l 4.
The Fatman’s Scream for Socialism.
Squatters and farmers in S. Aus., believing that
they have a prophet in their own country, are yell-
ing for the Government to Socialise him imme-
diately. The expert in question is John Lane,
for some years a postmaster under Charles Todd,
but now out of business. His weather forecasts
have for some time past been remarkable In
particular, he foretold in August that a flood
would happen a month later in one district where
floods are almost as scarce as Polar bears, and it
came accurately to time and place, being a real
flood thereabouts, while, merely a good rain hap-
pened elsewhere. This success may he luck, of
course, but it looks uncommonly like science.
Forthwith squatters anti farmers have rushed in
deputation to the Government, asking for a sum
which will make Lank independent for a year or
two while he gives the whole of his time to this
work ; and this despite the fact that the Com-
monwealth has taken over meteorological affairs
from the State, so that obviously the latter has no
appropriate billet to drop him into. Now, what
is it worth to a farmer to know that a flood is
coming ? Or to be warned to make prepara-
tions against a drought? Some 60 men,
throwing in a five-pound note each, would
probably satisfy Lane’s ideas of an income
handsomely. Well, there are as many S.A.
farmers as that who have in the last three or four
years c'eared £5OOO each every season. There are
probably 1000 who now clear £lOOO each every
season. Adelaide importers look to the country
for their chief sale of motor-cars and phono-
graphs. The Farmers’ Union has just had to
open a large show-room for its pianos. Yet
when they have a man in whom they declare
their “unbounded confidence,” they rush to
the State to maintain him. Private Enterprise
used not to be afraid of putting its hand in its
pocket when it saw what it thought a sure re-
turn ; but these times it seems to want to sit back
for the profits, while it plots to get State Socialism
to do the paying—the same Socialism which it
says it hates, because it can only benefit the Labor
feilow.
♦
A Matter of Tactics.
From the Professor of Strategy :
A Tory gibe at the N.S.W. Labor party which carries a
certain amount of weight, has reference to the lack of
definiteness on the part of McGowen and his colleagues in
regard to the constructive legislation they propose.
Andrew Fisher didn’t sweep the country last April
owing to his expressed hostility to the past deeds of the
Fusion so much as because he had legislative goods to
offer which his opponents hadn’t. If the Fisher party
hadn’t talked Graduated Land Tax hard and often, or if
it had failed to convince the country that it was
in dead earnest on the Defence question, it wouldn’t
have enjoyed half the triumph it did ; in fact,
it mightn’t have enjoyed a triumph at all. The
McGowEN-ites have been talking too much about the
things “ Liberalism ” hasn’t done, and too little about
what they propose to do themselves. Thus it comes
about that, though the general elections are only three
weeks distant, the country is still in a state of doubt as
to McGowbn’s attitude on the Sydney centralisation
question, on the gas monopoly and State coal-mine
questions, and a whole raft of others. On the subject of
Wade’s attitude towards centralisation no one is in any
doubt. He stands for Sydney interests first, last and all
the time. The uproar in the country, which cul-
minated, the other day, in a deputation from West
Riveriha interviewing him and demanding railway-com-
munication with some less disastrously-distnnt port
than Sydney, spurred him into appointing a Decentral-
isation Commission—just as the force of public opinion,
combined with the enthusiastic way in whjch the people
sheered off Dreadnausea, drove Joe Cook to an appear-
ance of agreement with the Australian navy idea. The
electors didn’t believe in the sincerity of J. Cook’s light-
ning conversion to Australian defence then any more
than they believe in the sincerity of Wade’s lightning
conversion to Decentralisation now ; and many of them
supported Fisher in consequence. But they* wouldn’t
have supported Fisher with any particular zest had he
side-stepped all mention of his own proposals, and
wasted valuable time scarifying Cook on his past antis
defence attitude. Sydney suffers, at the present time,
from an oppressive gas monopoly. The gas is absurdfy
dear and not particularly good. Bathurst, which has
tried the experiment of municipal gas, has nothing but
praise for the article on the score of quality and economy.
What is McGowen going to do about the Sydney Gas
Company—a Private-Enterprise concern which Wade is
pledged to stand by till the last gasp ? A plain statement
of his intention in that regard is going to alter the
direction of thousands of votes. A few months back
trade was dislocated in N.S.W., and numbers were ruined
by a coal strike. It isn’t suggested that State coal-mines
mean a total absence of strikes ; only that strikes are less
likely, for various reasons, in State than in Private Enter-
prise concerns. It isn’t claimed that coal can be had for
nothing from State coal-mines, only that it can be had
for less than under the present out-of-date system. Does
McGowen intend to do what Wade can never attempt
without stultifying himself utterly, and give N.S.W.
some State coal-mines? The fact that his platform com-
mits him, in general terms, to State ownership isn’t
enough. The public wants explicit statements. Mean-
while, the horrible experience of G. Reid in 1903 should
suffice to show the unwisdom, in Australia, of a campaign
which is largely “anti.” The still more painful ex-
perience of the Fusion, which also relied on the “anti”
cry, showed it some more. The McGowen party ought to
take all sorts of care that it doesn’t fall in in the same way
Victoria’s Make-Believe Block System.
The Bulletin has already shown how the Special
Board appointed by the Victorian Government to
inquire into the Richmond railway butchery
whitewashed the Railway Department, and
threw the corpses and the injured on to the door-
step of Providence. But if the public, and
especially that part of it which has to travel regu-
larly over Melbourne’s suburban railway system,
is satisfied with this most unsatisfactory finding,
then it is easily chloroformed. As a matter of
fact, about the only thing revealed by the inquiry
was that the signalling department needs over-
hauling and bringing up to date with all speed.
Over most of its lines Victoria has no real safety
appliance. It has a system of bell signals a,nd
record books, which are supposed to be a check on
the memories of the signalmen ; but then it care-
fully discounts any degree of safety which that
system may confer by adopting the dan-
gerous “One Five ” signal. The trains run too
closely and too fast for the present system
of block telegraph, so-called, to confer any real
safety. There is only one system which supplies
any reasonable degree of safety in the form of an
automatic check on the actions of the signalmen,
and that is the lock-and-block system, or, as it is
generally known, the electric interlocking signal-
ling system. Several varieties of this system
have been devised by various combinations of
brains. The Victorian Railway Department ex-
cuses the delay in layingdown any one of them on
the ground of cost; but, as a matter of grim
fact, the Winter-Prkece system would cost
very little more than the method in vogue
to-day. Certainly the compensation which
will have been paid for Sunshine and
Richmond would have installed the apparatus,
inasmuch as the Victorian suburban system is
already fitted with practically everything except
the electric attachment by which the starting
signals are locked till they are opened by the
joint operations of two signal-boxes. It has been
said that, under the existing system, it always
takes two or more men to make a smash. But as
far as could be gathered from the evidence, one
man can-have a smash any time he likes. All he
has to do is to make a mistake and lower his
starting signal too soon ; and if the second train
entering the section is sufficiently fast to
catch the first before it reaches the
safety of the home signal, there is the
smash, unless the brakes act quickly enough to
prevent it. With the interlocking system the
starting signal cannot be lowered till both signal-
boxes are agreed that it should be lowered, and
the train that was last admitted to the section has.
got clean off it. And the mechanism is automatic.
This is not an expensive system, and could be in-
stalled for a few thousands, and the cost of upkeep
is very small. So cheap is it that it lias been in
use on the comparatively poor Maoriland suburban
systems for over 20 years. Still, if the Vic. Rail-
way Department is really too hard up to afford it,
Tait might possibly negotiate with Miss Nellie
Stewart to come to its rescue with a couple of
Safe Railway-Travelling Matinees.
-4.
The Horrors That Come Home to Roost.
Maoriland is beginning to reap a crop of horrors,
which commenced to sprout when the old C. D.
Act was suspended, at the instigation of
Wowsers and other ill-informed freaks. For
years every attempt to have the Act dusted up
and sent out to work has been met by these people
with anguished cries about the wickedness of the
State recognising and regulating “ vice.” But
that method has about come to the end of its
chain, and Something Has Got to be Done. Not
many days back, Dr. Findlay, Minister for Jus-
tice in the Dominion, addressed a meeting in
Wellington on pleasant vice and upleasant dis-
eases. He said
The existence and effects of these foul diseases were
hidden from knowledge and view with the utmost care.
Even their mention was deemed indelicate, and while
silence, ignorance or indifference towards them prevailed,
they were spreading like a cancer through an ever-
increasing number of our people. . . Let us, of course,
attempt to check this plague by moral and educational
influences. But they must, in the present situation, be
supplemented by more direct and stricter remedies. We
do not now hesitate to isolate sufferers from certain con-
tagious and infectious diseases for the protection of the
health of the community. lam told that the best calcu-
lation that can be made on the statistics and other figures
obtainable is that 60 percent, of all males contract sexual
disorders before they reach 30. (Voices: “Shame.”
“Don’t believe it.”) I have it on high authority that
from 65 per cent, to 80 per cent, of the abdominal and
pelvic operations on women are due to the infection that
ensues.
Findlay’s proposal is that every doctor, chemist
or other person consulted by anyone suffering
from disease of a certain class shall report it to
the Public Health Officer or risk a heavy penalty ;
that the Law shall fall like a ton of pig-iron on
the person, irrespective of sex, who, being diseased,
wilfully exposes others to contagion ; that the
orders of the Health Officer shall be obeyed by a
diseased person, even to the point of actual isola-
tion, if that be necessary. Dr. John Ewart, for
many years Medical Superintendent of the Welling-
ton Hospital, and, in many respects, the most ex-
perienced doctor in Maoriland, stated recently that
during his length of service at the big hospital
approximately 30 per cent, of the out-patients,
men, women and children , were affected with the
loathsome disease. And M.L. is not singular—
a fact which was proved at a recent medical con-
gress held at Melbourne, where the overwhelming
feeling was in favor of legislation to check the
scourges which are falling on the innocent. The
congress itself was, in fact, startled by the
appalling death-rates in children’s hospitals
due to the disease, and precipitately urged the
then Prime-Minister, Deakin, to prompt action.
Deakin agreed with the views of the Congress,
but he had hardly started to draw up the plans
when the curse of Jokook struck him and pushed
him through the window'. Findlay, in his cam-
paign in Maoriland, will certainly be met by the
same old freaks who already “regret the pro-
posed introduction of penal clauses under the
Public Health Act,” and urge, instead, “that the
Education Department should secure the services
of specialists to educate the young people on the
dangers of misuse of the functions of the body,
and the value of healthy self-control”; but a
sufficient answer to that crow’d is that the remedy
they propose in this case is precisely the remedy
which the same freaks declare to be utterly in-
adequate in regard to drunkenness and its
attendant evils.
There was a certain dreary humor about the
refusal of the Melbourne tramway monopolists
to consider Premier Murray’s suggestion that
they should institute penny sections. Nearly a
column of the dailies was taken up in enumerating
the alleged “ concessions ” they have already made
—giving an extra quarter-mile on a transfer, selling
adozenthreepennyticketsfor2s.9d.,andsoon. The
whole lot don’t amount to a ha’porth of pins, as the
co.’s own figures prove. In the past four years alone
the co. has paid 154 per cent, in dividends on the
capital subscribed by the shareholders. That is
to say, in those four years alone it has paid to the
shareholders all the capital they put into the
business, and half as much again; and it put by
almost the same amount for division later on. A
transport company that can perform such feats is
doing one thing for certain, and doing it
thoroughly : it is plundering the public. That
public has the right, through Parliament, to
revise the fares exactly as it sees fit, and the
figures prove up to the hilt that the right ought
to be exercised promptly.
The Wade Government’s Railway Superannua-
tion Act is going to make history—a whole heap
of history—before everything is finished. It pro-
vides superannuated railway and tramway officials
with exceedingly liberal pensions in return for the
exceedingly small contribution of per cent, of
their salaries, and on the surface it looks a really
lavish affair. Long before it got through it was
discovered that things would probably not work
out within miles of the result alleged ; but the
end of the Parliament was near, and the election
was near, and there was no time for any serious
reconsideration, and even if a dreadful blunder
had been made it didn’t seem good enough to own
up to it, especially at such a time, and the rail-
way and tramway vote was wanted badly,
and there was always the certainty that the
Wade Government would be out of office before
the worst, or anything dimly resembling the worst,
could possibly happen. So the Bill was pushed
through— McGowen, Hollis and other Opposi-
tionists who sit for railway constituencies shov-
ing manfully behind. But there is a dead vulture
in the honey, and the size of the decomposed bird
is enormous. Roughly speaking, the contribu-
tions of the railway and tramway officials should
meet quite one-tenth of the demands on the fund.
For the gigantic balance the fund is to rely upon
yearly appropriations , and yearly appropriations
are a horribly, uncertain crutch to rely upon in
one’s old age.
The S. M. Herald is giving the Wade party a
lift with a daily column of “Campaign Notes” ;
and the other morning it therein printed this :
“ The statement has lately been made by my opponent,
Mr. Craig, and others that, through neglect and delay,
the Government had so increased the value of lands influ-
enced by the Barren Jack irrigation, scheme that the
Government would now have to pay much in excess of
what was originally estimated the land could be pur-
chased for. How could Mr. Craig oranyone else attempt
to make electors believe such a thing when everybody
well knew that Government resumption will be on the
value of the land as it was before the irrigation scheme
was propounded?”—Mr. Mark Morton, at Kangaroo
Valley.
“ Mr. Craig or anyone else ” didn’t have to wait
long to find reasons for attempting to “ make the
electors believe such a thing ” ; for the same issue
of the same S. M. Herald printed this as its own
On the Land ” statement of the case
r unde . rslood tha t under it [the recent Act] the
thl f. " ,S em P owered to resume all land affected by
vnf„to W S rk at a retrospective value—that is, the
e a l ld " hen the work was begun. If that is
carried The See how Uis ° oin '-> to be
The trouble is that a good deal of land has
*! ands within the last three years, and in many
has been sold more than once at increased prices,
the irrigation work is undoubtedly responsible to a large
degree for that increase, but at the same time portion of
must be credited to the general improvement in land,
values that, has taken place throughout the State. The
increased value up to the present has passed into other
hands and cannot be obtained by the State. To penalise,'
the present holders would he confiscation purely and
simply , and is a course that cannot he contemplated hyi
the Government.
Which last is the truth—it is unlikelv that the
Wadf. Government intends to resume the Barren
Jack lands at the old price. The Bill authorising
resumption was rushed through as a bluff,
chiefly owing to the Herald’s acid remarks con
cerning the land-trafficking that was going on in
the irrigation area—remarks closely akin to those
which the same paper heatedly stigmatised, later
on, as “ slanderous.” Thousands of pounds have
been made by certain folks as a result of the
Government’s neglect to secure the increased
value of the irrigation lands caused by its own
scheme; and it has little hope of getting that
money back now, even if it has the desire to do it.
A debate in the Vic. Assembly on Premier
Murray s proposal of a Coal Miners’ Wages
Board brought forth some strangely confused
arguments from the most Tory members of that
benighted House. Their objection to a Wages
Board for the coal industry is pinned to the
pleasing circumstance that the Government itself
owns and works a coal mine, and that if employees
in the State mine were brought within the radius
of Board regulations, railway employees, police-
men and State-school teachers would be equally
entitled to a Wages Board. At the same
time, they admit that the men on some of
the Private Enterprise mines are now “ work-
ing at rates which hardly keep body
and soul together ”; but this admission
is made as a further argument against a Wages
Board, on the ground that it would “ very likely
knock out some of those mines” where the
bodies of the hewers are retaining possession of
their immortal souls under such grave difficulties.
The critics of Murray’s proposal drew a false
comparison, and naturally arrived at a false
conclusion. There are no Private Enterprise
railway employees in need of a Wages Board,
nor any State schools whose managers can
flout the Education Department, nor any
policeman in the employ of private com-
panies. On the other hand, Victoria has six:
coal mines worth mentioning, and the Government
owns only one of them ; and the fact that it feels;
called upon to pay fair wages has drawn particu-
lar attention to the fact that some of the Private:
Enterprisers don’t feel called upon to do anything:
of the sort. Hence the growing demand' for a.
Wages Board in the industry. Presently the-
Government will be forced to establish a State:
pub on the State coalfield, and then, presumably,
these opponents of a miners’ Wages Board will
shriek for the abolition of the Board that now
regulates wages and hours of work for employees
in all pubs. Meanwhile, they have forgotten to
remark that the Government has a printing estab-
lishment of its own, which, by all Tory argument,
should put all printers outside the pale of wages
legislation.
Maoriland’s No-License fraud secures another
reference as to character from advance sheets of
the Dominion’s “ Year Book ” for 1910. For the
past five years the consumption of liquor per head
of population is shown thus :
Including Maoris—
Beer. Wine. Spirits,
1905 ( 3 No-License districts) .. 8777 0-24 0'695
1906( 6,, „ „ ).. 9-085 0'136 0734
1907( 6 „ „ „ ).. 9-649 0 151 0766
1908 (6 „ ~ ~ ).. 9-689 0-150 0757
1909(12 „ „ „ ).. 9-256 0736 0 705
Excluding Maoris—
-1905 9-212 0-30 0730
1906 9-569 0743 0773
1907 10 750 0 769 0-806
1908 10 779 0 758 0 795
1909 9710 0 743 0 740
There were last year six additional “ dry ” dis-
tricts, making 12 in operation ; but the official
compilers of the “Year Book” evidently don’t
regard these extra drought areas as a factor in the
slight shrinkage in the liquor consumed during
1909. Says the “Year Book ”:
It would appear that during the period covered by the
table [five years] the consumption of alcohol has in-
creased, the comparative falling off for the last year
being no doubt due to toeakness in purchasing power
brought about by depression of trade.
Further, it is set out that during the past 10,
years, in which the number of no-license districts.,
increased from one to 12, the convictions for,-
drunkenness per 1000 of population jumped from!
950 to 11 - 01 (1909). The number of convictions
for drunkenness and drunkenness with disorderly
conduct during 1909 was 10,697, or 88 more than
in 1908. On a population basis, the “drunks”
convicted during 1909 in Maoriland—with 12 no-
license districts, 10 o’clock closing, etc.—were
I’o4 per cent, of the population, whereas in Vic-
toria, where No License hasn’t got a hearing, the
total number of persons arrested and summoned
in 1908 was only I'o3 per cent, of the population,
and the proportion of convictions was, of course’
still less.
“ Crass” : Westraliahas its own little centralisa-
tion trouble. There should be a railway from
Norseman to Esperance Bay, but there isn’t,
because Esperance Bay isn’t Perth. The writer,’
who put in 20 years of an ill-spent life in agri-
cultural districts, walked from Esperance Bay to
Norseman in 1896. He had run out of motor-cars
for the moment. Agriculture was even then
being successfully carried on at the “Grass
Patch,” about half-way through. Recent applica-
tions for land for agricultural purposes on the
long-ago surveyed railway route total about,
100,000 acres. A man named John Reynold.%,
with his son and another, cut the first horse-team,
track from the port to Norseman, about 120 miles.
I met John later (1907) in Coolgardie, selling his
teams, waggons, etc. Asked why. “Can’t com-
pete with the Afghans and their camels. X
was getting £4O a ton, and even then it wasn’t .
too good, and now these mongrels chip in at
£lB a ton. ” Yet Reynolds (a man of 60 or there-
abouts) didn’t squeak once to me that he and his;
sons were the first track-cutters. I learnt that else-
where. Thepeoplewhonow wanttherailwayhavea.
worse proposition to contend with than even old,
Reynolds had ; but they are not taking things;
quite so philosophically, though they don’t swear-
so much. Reynolds didn’t waste time arguing
with the Afghans. He just sold out and “got.”
There is a population of 40,000 people there, who
need the Esperance railway, and who won’t sell
out and “get”; but if they don’t get the line
there’s going to be a healthy struggle to establish
a new State thereabouts before long. Not a State
with a lot of frills, but a sensible one-House affair
that just means business.


s
One of Sydney’s Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving: Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney-386 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place ; Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
Common-sense wots of many more capital
questions than that of the Capital Site. Inspired
to wisdom by D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise,
and common-sense is vastly concerned about
increased safety and prosperity by increase of
population. The starry light of D.C.L. wisdom
leads to the sunny dawn of peace and happiness.*
Dear Mr. Bulletin, —As I am shortly leaving
for the East, I need no longer conceal myself.
For some years I have been engaged in your
amiable country, noting its indifferent defences
and patent unprepared ness to resist attack.
Needless to urge, I have not found my duties par-
ticularly onerous, for your military, politicians
al ?d other persons have invariably treated me
with an exquisite candor. I shall not record the
whole of the knowledge that I have gained to
your disadvantage, since I desire to leave you
with a shred of self-respect and just an atom of
your amazing self-sufficiency. Learning that I
was a cousin of Viscount Sodawata, First
Grand Candlestick to the Mikado’s Bed-
chamber, your authorities have been so lo-
quacious on gun shields, gun-ranges, maga-
zine positions, etc., etc., that I have had to
request their silence through very weariness.
In justice to the military, however, I must state
that I have secured some of my most refreshing
items from what you call your Federal Parlia-
ment. Your politicians are so inquisitive and so
hopelessly stupid that they have saved me many
inquiries of a perplexing nature. The other day,
they were kind enough to inform me—per
medium of an answer to a dreadful questioner—
that it would require 63 days to transport 30,000
mounted troops from Melbourne to Brisbane
under present conditions, and about a third of
that time if the railway gauge were uniform
between the two cities. I have duly filed this
item with many others, for it will be of invaluable
importance when we call in with our army any
time after 1915. Adieu till then.—Yours very
cordially, Shikisawa Moji.
♦ ;
In its comparatively short life, the N.S.W. Local
Government Act has provided as much work for
the lawyers as the Crown Lands Act. A few
minutes ago the btate Full Court was confronted
by a problem which added a few grey hairs to its
wig, and promises to raise a wail throughout the
country loud enough to drown the hoots with
which “ Liberal ” candidates at e being welcomed
in the electorates. The Pastures Protection Act
enjoins upon landowners the duty of keeping, not
only their own lands, but the public roads front-
mg their properties, clear of blackberries, thistles
and other hogs and colored aliens. But one Armi-
dale pastoralist, on the ground that he paid a tax
to the shire under the Local Government Act
for the upkeep of the public highways, did not
molest or otherwise club, bash, or deal it out to the
brambles on the road fronting his stately home or
demesne. So he was summoned, and he dumped
the two Acts of Parliament in front of the local
magistrate. That luminary selected the Local
Government Act, it being the later statute, and
dismissed the case with Costs. But the Full
Court, on appeal, decided that the Local Govern-
ment Act gives the surface of the road to the con-
u f khe shires, while the noxious weeds growing
in the strata below come under the care of the
Pastures Protection Boards. The result of the
decision is that while the P. P. Act can compel a
property owner to remove the prickly swear from
the road in front of him, the L. G. Act can prose-
cute him for making a hole in its road for the pur-
pose. This shows the versatility of the prickly
curse. In its time, as Shakespeare says, one pear
p ays many parts, and as a vegetable which it is
illegal to dig up and unlawful to leave in the
ground it plays two important parts at once.
+
Yarrum,’ from the N.S.W. South Coast, where
the big landlord lias sat more heavily than in any
other part of the State :
I’ve travelled N.S.W. from one end to the other ; but
in no spot have I found the decrease in birth-rate more
marked than on the South Coast. Round about Kiama
there are three schools that, 20 years ago, had an ag'irre-
trate average attendance of 120. Now one school is closed
throusfh lack of attendance, and the other two average 16
between them ! “ Too mean to have children,” is the ex-
planatron of vigorous men who can still do their own
thinking— they find it comes cheaper to get the help of
State kids.” r
The old story: unable to get a bit of land of his
own at a reasonable price, the enterprising young
man has moved out, leaving behind the poor, mean,
dull, unimaginative sediment; and left to itself
the sediment has become poorer, meaner, duller,
and still less imaginative and more sedimentary,'
until it naturally prefers the State kid, because
the State kid hasn’t to be kept for the first un-
profitable 10 or 12 years of its life. But behind
all, and above all, and at the bottom of all is the
big landlord and the dear land curse.
—
Thus Gordon Inglis (from London): The horse is
passing out of modern business for certain. Casual
observation shows that to be so, but cold calcula-
tion clinches the argument. Here, in Fleet-street,
London, three years ago, 74 per cent, of the traffic
was horse-drawn, the rest being motor-driven,
10-day the horse-dragged traffic is 48 per cent.—
less than half the total. On a fine Sunday after-
noon at Putney Bridge, five years ago, about 84
per cent, of the traffic was horse-trailed and 16
per cent, mechanically-shoved. To-day the figures
are practically reversed, 88f per cent, of motor
against 11£ per cent, of horse. Some of the
British papers are anxiously inquiring as to
what the result of this will be upon horse-
breeding, and they point out that, useful as
the motor will be in war time, it cannot
enter into competition with the four-footed
animal for the conveyance of cavalry or mounted
infantry. Says one paper : “ Let us beware that
the passing of the horse does not take us by sur-
prise, for the last half of the revolution may be
even more swift than the first.” Personally, I
don t think it matters much. The rapidity of
improvement in airships, aeroplanes and sub-
marines persuades me that one-half of the next
great war will be fought on the roof of the sky,
and the other half along with the sea-serpent, at
the bottom of the Atlantic or the Pacific.
The horse is no good at either game.
Plain, ordinary, dry, two-legged, pedestrian
man will see nothing of the fighting.
When 40 or 50 ruined airships crash down on one
of his cities and bury his banks and insurance
offices in ruin, he will guess that a battle has
been fought above the clouds, and he may identify
enough of the wreckage to form an idea as to
which sky-admiral has won. And when the
kraken and the mermaid and the ichthyosaurus
sprint in terror up the Thames and climb ashore
into London, he will guess that a big struggle is
on in the mud, down at the roots of the ocean.
But he won’t see things. In one case he will find
a few of the dead floating out on the ocean. In
the other he will himself be killed' by the dead
falling on him from a height of seven miles.
What will the poor old horse signify in any case ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
.7£? rmen ” and “La Bohfeme.”
PaJace «mu he 9 hance of a Lifetime.”
T IV „ The Little Breadwinner.”
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
TnwKHi'rr Spencer’s Pictures.
Town Hall Carreno (22nd, 24th).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
S® ! ’ 8 ' ••; “The Sign of the Cross.”
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
•• •• “ Sergeant Brue.”
s - • • •••'.. “ The Winning Ticket.”
J IOU ' S T>' Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athkn/eum Hall Taits’ Pictures.
West s Palace W est’s Pictures.
Glaciarium i ce Skating.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
“ Our Miss Gibbs ” arrives at Her
Majesty s on Saturday night next, vice “The
Urcliid which is retiring to the quiet of J.C.W.’s
play-refrigerator. The new show is right up-to-
date, and its traction-power is so stupendous that
a young woman confided to a London paper last
month that she had paid to see it 152 times—nor
were there any signs of brain-softening about her.
I here is an act in Harrod’s (the playwright calls
it Lrarrod s), the vast and fashionable emporium
in the Brompton-road ; also, the White City is
shown, with Mr. Amalfy (who is, in real life, Mr.
-L he ? lre ° tor thereof. And, lastly, there
is Miss Blanche Brown, who is understood to be
a perfectly scrumptious Miss Gibbs. Altogether
things at Her Majesty’s look promising.
** * *
Ihe Arcadians 1 will live the smart-
simple life for the last time, so far as Svdney is
concerned, to-morrow (Friday) night. On Satur-
day, in the haunts where these charming folk have
danced, sung and frivolled for the past two
months, the snarl of the Villain will be heard, in'
conjunction with the short, sharp yelp of the In-
jured Female, to be followed with automatic
suddenness by the reproving howl of the lady’s
Hero-Deliverer—for Bilanderson’s dramatic co.
comes with “ The Chance of a Lifetime.”
“A WOMAN’S REVENGE,” AT THE
SYDNEY PALACE.
Nellie Strong as
the Adventuress.
Jephthah Grimwade
(a bad egg).
Carreno is back in Sydney for a season of
four concerts ; and persons who have music in
their souls (not merely in the outer ear, surface
eye and insensitive finger tips) are prostrating
themselves before her as one of the three living
goddesses of the piano. The other two, Sophie
Menter and Annette Essipoff, Australia doesn’t
know save by reputation. Carreiio, virile or
feminine in her playing as the composition
demands, started her season on Saturday night
at the Sydney Town Hall with a Beethoven
masterpiece, the Appasionata Sonata. A Chopin
bouquet and a Schumann group followed, and the
audience, which was made up almost entirely of
the very musi.cianly amateur, and of students and
men and women who earn their cake and caviare by
music, were roused to a pitch of emotional inten-
sity by the player’s power and nervous force. Most
of them recognised Carreno’s music as the
heavenly maid. Mr. Benno Scherek, the star’s
manager, promises concerts for to-night (Thurs-
day) and Saturday, with changes of programme.
** * *
“Lovers’ Lane,” after proceeding unde-
viatingly in the direction of affluence for some
time, is due to reach the inevitable turning on
Friday night. The Theatre Royal, through whose
premises the Lane runs just now, has been be-
spoken by the Williamson Grand Opera Go. ;
so the frequenters of the thoroughfare are tearing
it up and taking it to Maoriland.
** * *
Morris Cronin, the tall, thin juggler who
stalked on to Sydney Tivoli stage last Saturday,
is the proprietor of a genuinely funny act, and the
silent and dignified boss of a couple of adroit
assistants, who play the parts of doddering servi-
tors what time they are not falling unexpectedly
round corners just in time to snatch a flying club
or two from the atmosphere. A cheerful bit of
by-play is provided by one of them taking off a
large top-hat and converting it by one bang into
a foaming glass of beer on a tray. The clever turn
concludes with a dazzling display of whirling
colored lights on a pitch-dark stage. “A
Champagne Headache ” would be a good
or B ar nes and West, billed as
The Fashion Plates of Vaudeville,” sing
3 P® rfectl y unintelligible song, and step dance
with great rapidity on a jointed wooden mat.
Iheir clothes do them great credit, and the lady’s
figure is a joy. The demonstration of the New-
man aeroplane lends an unusual interest to the
programme. The machine is shown at work by
means of a revolving horizontal rod on a fixed up-
right stand, beside which the inventor sits on a
low stool and operates the levers. The ’plane,
which has three speeds, can rise into the air and
come down as straight as a city lift; it can also
hover like a thoughtful bee before a rose. It
looks a fascinating toy as it whirrs round ; but the
impressive announcement is nightly made that it
has been submitted to the intensely serious
-British War Office. Flitting from science to
diversion, it may be mentioned that the pro-
gramme is further aided by the Quealy’s burlesque
boxing bout, Tom Dawson’s songs, Olga Grey’s
imitations and the harmony of the Australian
Gold Diggers’ quartette.
** * *
Miss Lillian Delany’s Sydney concert was
uncommonly good, and deserved the appreciative
audience it had. The young pianiste intends
further study in foreign atmosphere, and the con-
cert cheque will be devoted to helping her on the
way to her ambition.
“ The Whip,” produced at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) last Saturday, seems rather less enterpri-
sing and ambitious in story than some previous
Drury Lane dramas by Raleigh (and Hamilton)
which had their being on the stage of the local
Royal. But the dialogue is of the same superior
melodramatic order, and the plot is more fullv
charged throughout with sporting interest than
any former play of like size and weight. What
“The Whip” needs to give it a deeper effect of
reality is a deeper stage in a deeper theatre. Her
Majesty’s is, as it were, an oval-shaped house
placed lengthways, instead of widthways to the
audience, like the Royal. The unrealities of
melodrama are brought too near to general
observation. The audience is too much up
against it. Looking right down on the horse-race,
with its fully exposed bearings, one gets the im-
pression of a mechanical toy at work. The ex-
press engine that collides—oh, so gently !—with the
horse-box from which the noble gee-gee has been
rescued is hardly less unconvincing. Perhaps
the rolling-stock at Her Majesty’s is bigger and
stouter than any Blandolt achievement of that
particular kind ; nevertheless, its falseness touches
the audience too nearly. A better attempt at
illusion is the Chamber of Horrors at Tussaud’s
Waxworks, where the simple-minded horse-
trainer gets locked in at closing time, after a
protracted scene of comedy-relief and exciting
revelations. And there are other scenes, well
painted by Coleman, Upward and Co., and
well managed, in which racehorses, scarlet hunt-
ing-coats and sporting interest are freely dis-
tributed. Of solid human interest there is little
or none in “The Whip.” The characters are
stage-creations, with dramatic force in them, or
without it.
* * * *
Eleven people have been imported to fill
the principal parts, and, with one exception, they
are personally suited to their job. The exception
is Ambrose Manning, an old favorite, as the
serio-comic horse-trainer. Manning is a popular
success, but his acting has no truth in it, some-
how. It doesn’t smack of the stable. Only
when he gets, agonised at the impossible absurdity
of being imprisoned for 36 hours in the waxworks
is he quite the right Manning in the right place.
Alfred Bucklaw, another re-visitor with an honor-
able Australian past, appears as an elderly
marquis, and speaks his lines impressively. Miss
Marie Illington, as the widow who shares the
comedy-relief with Manning, is an actress with a
sense of humor and a well cultivated contralto
speaking voice. If she were older, stouter and
more pronounced in style, she would pass for Mrs.
G. B. Lewis ; but Mrs. G.B. W.L. would never
have worn her skirts too tight for walking
purposes. Miss Ulington’s display of the latest
European fashion was unintentionally ridicu-
lous. Fred Penley gives a spirited perform-
ance of an overdrawn bookmaker. Miss Kerry
is a pleasing heroine in pleasing garments;
Lionel Attwill is likewise as the hero; whilst the
jockey, the adventuress, the cool, hard Captain
and the Girl who was Betrayed are satisfactory
in the foregoing order of merit. The wicked
Captain, to be sure, is somewhat angular and
mechanical, but is apparently a more experienced
artist than the haunted curate, whose chief re-
commendation—as a specially imported person —
is that he looks as a hysterical curate would look
in a Family Hekald picture. Among the unim-
ported actors in very small parts, Vivian Edwards
divides the remaining honors with Master Burns.
The small boy in question represents an enfant
terrible of the deepest dye, and gives a fine im-
personation of a horrible young nuisance at the
waxworks.
** « m
At the Princess’s the reign of “Henry of
Navarre” terminates on Friday. Julius Knight
will soon be leaving Melbourne for a long, last
time, and the management reckons that he ought
to make his departure in the character of Marcus
Superbus, the famous lion-feeder. Therefore,
“The Sign of the Cross” comes due for revival
on Saturday, and for 12 farewell nights Mercia
and Marcus will become one flesh in the interior
of the king of beasts.
** * *
The sporting Horsetralian drama at the
King’s, having been abbreviated since its birth-
night, is supplying an Anderson'ian want until
further notice. Between the mechanical devices
of “The Whip” and “The Winning Ticket,” the
long arm of coincidence (ahem !) has drawn re-
semblances which remind one that Anderson got
in first as far as Melbourne is concerned! The
"HENRY OF MAVARRE,"
AT MEL-
BOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Susie Vaughan
as Catherine.
de Medici (the
Queen’s may.
Julius Knight—
when knights
were hold.
horses in his Cup race behave fairly well, as a rule,
and his remarkable locomotive coughs up fire-
works from its funnel with unfailing ardor. Also,
Dick the Rabbiter continues to be full of beer
outside Cole’s Book Arcade, which would be a
scene of stirring local interest if the scenic artist
ha,d painted it very differently. Dick and his
missing mate Cusack (who won the egg-laying
competition) are seasonable propositions, and the
local constable (Max Clifton) might have just
stepped out of the witness-box.
# *■ * *
To-night (Thursday) closes the chapter of
“Pete ” at the Royal. The Stage Employees’
Sick Fund will have a benefit performance to-
morrow; and on Saturday the new season of comic
opera starts with a revival of “Sergeant Brue,”
played by the Arcadians, who will give an air of
novelty to that wild romance. “Brue” will be
funny for one week only.
*- * * *
At the Melbourne Town Hall last Satur-
day the V.P.O. gave a comparatively frivolous
concert. Wagner got only one look in, and the
principal item was Schubert’s “Joy Symphony,’’
which seemed to invite the audience to get up
and dance. Next time, the Vic. Pro. Orchestra
will divide all its attentions between Beethoven
and Wagner; but this next time is not until
November 12, when Laver takes the baton.
Meanwhile, the orchestra will continue to make
music at Olympia on Sunday nights, and the
Lord will see that it is good.
•* * * *
Dolores starts her series of song recitals at
the Town Hall this Saturday (24th). Melbourne,
thusfar, has only heard of the lady since she re-
turned to this hemisphere, and the warm desire to
hear her voice and behold her incomparable smile
once again is now almost as hot as wintry condi-
tions will permit.
** * *
Reappearing at Melbourne Opera House
are the Meymotts and the Charlenes. The
Meymotts are frisking through a soft gust of
gentle farce touching on dentistry and klepto-
mania. Popularly pleasing are the Charlenes,
who are encoring much of their former business.
Their turn consists of juggling and xylophone
music, punctuated by the antics of an' ardent
assistant and the copyright smile of Miss Lily
Charlene. Other items in a well-packed bill in-
“A WOMAN’S REVENGE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two weeks have gone since she started out
To seek her revenge on the Man Who Sneered—
The man who treated her cheap throughout;
Loved her and dropped her and elsewhere
steered.
Each night to the Palace the folk have trailed,
Put over their money, and laughed with glee
When faded CUrtain dropped on her ven geance
Nobody felt for her misery.
The stalls, the boxes and family pit,
They swear by the Law and the Decalogue;
But from “curtain up ” to the last exit
They howl for the blood of the under-dog.
Revenge is sweet; but the job must wait
When there’s bills to settle and rent to pay,
So “ The Little Breadwinner ” is on the slate”
To start at the Palace on Saturday,
N.S.W.
J. B.
“THE WHIP.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A reckless Lord with his brain awhirl,
A Captain base and a sporting Girl,
Whose late papa was a noble earl ;
A Wily Woman whose wiles are “ crook,”
A rowdy Sinner who makes a “ book,” ,
A Curate weak with a worried look;
A Jockey lad with a heart of gold,
And a Sister wronged by the Captain bold,
As in twenty dramas you’ve seen of old ;
A Trainer, courting the fond caress
Of a Widow, who soon will whisper “ Yes,”
And can hardly move in her walking-dress—
This is the drama from Drury Lane,
Introducing a railway train
And a horse-race run on a moving plain
By tethered horses that can’t advance
(As one may see at a careless glance)
Unless their tethers give way, perchance;
A drama of comic relief and things,
Of the “bird’’that’s “dead,” and the bell that
rings,
And a plot broad-based on the Sport of Kings ;
A drama melo. and mixed—in short,
Sensational farce of the Blandolt sort,
Which spreads its scenes to the World of Sport.
One of the best in its old, old way,
Luridly colored and merry and gay,
Peopled with puppets in brave array ;
Crowded with incident, scant of sense,
Not worth remembering twelve months hence,
Prettily staged at large expense.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Re-opening of JERDAN’S PICTURES,
WENTWORTH PARK OVAL, 26th Sept.
The Best Picture Show in Australia.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS* LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged,’
’Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
(SYDNEY IL CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
fJ9. 3
r),
/
MEN
AND WOMEN
In middle life can avoid
that most disquieting
sign of age—grey hair
—by using
Or. B. Allen’s u.s.a. Mexican
Walnut Stain ( Registered >
which imparts a natural colour. light
brown, dark brown, or black, and does
not inlure the hair, but makes It soft and
glossy. It Is a perfect, cleanly and harm-
less stain, washable and lasting. Being
one liquid It Is most easy to apply. It
has no odour or stickiness, and does not
soil the pillow.
Sold by All Chemists.
elude Godfrey James, whose songs are unsuited
to the sinister blue light in which he sings them.
They ought to be produced to the reverential
aooompaniment of altar candles.
** * *
A cinematograph of current European
history is still being provided by “ Pathe’s
Gazette.” The flicker, which is a serial at West’s
Melbourne branch, parades further important
jottings this week. Items include irrepressible
Parisian fashions, yachting on the Thames, a
pageant of flowers at Carlsbad, and the wreck of
an airship at Cologne. “Two Plucky Young-
sters ” unfolds a tale of a burglary in the best
French scenery; while “A- Child’s Impulse”
yarns of a young man’s bites at two sorts of love.
Also there is “Rio Janeiro,” which is mainly a
picture of niggers of varying degrees of darkness.
** # *
Charlotte Hemming, who is herself
always interesting, gives a dramatic recital at
Melbourne Masonic Hall on the 28th inst.,
assisted by interesting amateurs.
* * * -*■
“Madam Butterfly” has run its regula-
tion week at Adelaide Royal, with its two hero-
ines and three heroes—for Reginald Roberts
came in for one evening as Pinkerton. The dailies
unconsciously but enthusiastically damn it with
faint praise, begging everybody not to mind the
acting or the libretto, but to think of the music.
The music is certainly great; but the present
writer is barbarian enough to wish there were less
of it. Such bald remarks as “ I must be going.
Please excuse me,” and “Won’t you have a
whisky ?” would surely be more satisfactory every
way if spoken instead of sung. Probably one
would appreciate the opera more for not hav-
ing seen the deeply-moving rendering of the
drama by Rose Musgrove, years ago. Show
week has crowded all places of amusement.
Of the many flickergraphs, the Lyceum cutely
makes a feature of pictures just secured at
the Show itself. “ Come and see yourself on the
screen ” is a straight appeal to the strongest of
human instincts. The Kremo family have livened
up the Tivoli programme immensely. Manager
Marcus professes himself unable to fit them with
superlatives. It is a dangerous thing, these
times, to call anybody “ beyond the last word ” in
any art; but the Kremos certainly deserve the
whole dictionary. The Literary Theatre has
finished its winter season with two performances
of “Prunella,” by Granville Barker and Laurence
Housman. Into an old-world garden comes Pier-
rot with his merry crew, and carries off the girl.
That is all—in three acts. The principals caught
the spirit of the thing to perfection, but the sup-
porters were in trouble. This kind of fantasy is
literature rather than drama, and reads better
than it acts. A merry crowd surrounds the
youth and the maid, for instance, and crowns
their nuptials with a fantastic revel. One reads
that direction, and the mind instantly pictures it
all satisfactorily. But in real flesh and blood, and
on a small stage, your casual amateur—with a
horrid dread of “ letting him (or her) self go”—
can’t revel for Nuts.
The iconoclastic Labor Government is at
work on more ancient forms and institutions.
The superfluous habit of commencing official cor-
respondence with “ I have the honor, by direction
of the hon. the Minister,” etc., and completing
the screeds with “ I have the honor to be your
obedient servant,” has been scrapped by the
Minister of Customs. In future, officials of his
department will get straight to business with
“Sir” or “Dear Sir,” and conclude with the
simple “ Yours obediently.”
“The Religious Editor ” ; In almost every
second shop window in my suburb are exhibited
hand-written notifications that a fur, a handbag
or a bracelet has been lost, and that a small re-
ward will be paid to the person who finds and
returns the missing article. I think the reason
for all this everlasting dropping of personal
property is that women will insist on carrying
their belongings in such a way that they can’t
very well help but lose something the minute they
allow their attention to wander. The average
man, with his keys,'pocket-book, papers, smoking
outfit, glasses, watch, money, handkerchief, ticket
case and newspaper, carries as much personal
property with him as the average woman ; but,
having pockets distributed all over his garments,
he is enabled to stow everything away and leave
both hands free to hang on to trams, jostle through
a crowd, push off drunks, carry luggage, eat,
write, or do any of the million and one things an
able-bodied man must do every now and then.
The average woman, having elected to do without
pockets, has to attach her belongings to her with
thongs and chains like the primeval savage, or
else carry them loose in her hand. See a woman
getting ready to go out. She puts on a couple of
brooches and four rings; clamps on three or four
bangles; flings the upholstery of a wild beast
loosely round her neck, and harpoons her hat on
with long, silver pins. Then she picks up a
small and inconvenient handbag and stuffs into
it a purse, a powder-puff, a handkerchief,
the brooch she wants mended, a list of books,
a paper pattern, some breath lollies and her boat-
ticket. After that she straps up a couple of
library books or seizes a roll of music. Then she
gathers her umbrella from the liallstand, and
hurries off covered with flimsily-fastened valu-
ables, and carrying at least three separate
bundles. She is in a perpetual state of doubt as
to whether she has left anything behind, and
keeps counting to make sure. She occasionally
fingers her brooches to see if they are secure, and
her hair to see if it shows signs of coming down.
Generally she makes the outward trip without
loss. Her troubles begin after she has raided a
few shops and added four small packages to her
load, or paid a visit and been presented with a
large bunch of flowers. It is when she starts
home, fagged out with counting and carrying
enough loose property to fill a wheelbarrow, that
something drops by the wayside, or is left in the
tram and lies there unless some honest man,
woman or child retrieves it and pursues her.
When one comes to consider it, the wonder is
that women don’t lose a lot more than they do.
If the average man were commanded at the
cannon’s mouth to go without pockets in his gar-
ments, to hang his pipe and tobacco-pouch round
his neck on a chain, to keep his watch in a belt,
and his mofiey, papers, spectacles and handker-
chief in a small ornamental bag, he would tell the
lunatic in charge to touch her off and be d d.
Yet the average woman does all this, and seems
to enjoy life.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The cable records the death of Hawes Craven, the
grand old daddy of English scenic artists. Australia saw
some of Craven’s finest work in the Courtneidge produc-
tion of “As You Like It,” which Musgrove imported a
few years ago. The backcloth of the last scene—a broad
landscape with a trout stream meandering along the
meadows —was a charming bit of painting. One felt
tempted to get some fishing tackle and throw a line in
that trout stream.
“ 0.K.”: Australia will see an absolutely great and con-
vincing actress if Ethel Irving comes out next year, as
promised, under engagement to Clarke and Meynell.
It was in “ Lady Frederick ” that she made her first big
hit in London, some three years ago, after a long time of
waiting for a chance. Till then, she had been known only
as a minor light in musical-comedy and pantomime ;
therefore the Cockney public, having reckoned her a
woman of no importance, would never have accepted her
as a remarkable emotional actress in “straight” comedy
had the evidence not been irresistible. In the days when
she was nobody she visited Australia, says the “Green-
room Book ”; but her name is not remembered by old
theatre-goers here. Ethel Irving is not related to the
Henry Irving family, noris there anything “ Irvingesque,”
save personal magnetism, in her performances. Judging
from her realistic acting as Lady Frederick, the only
character I have seen her play, I would say that she has
no marked mannerisms. She seemed the embodiment of
the author’s creation. In later characters, of different
types, she has been equally successful, the critics say.
“Konini”: The Wanganui (M.L.) borough council,
which owns the local Opera House and runs it as a
Socialistic venture, is throwing the gibber of disapproval
at the scheme adopted
by many managers of
using all stall seats as
reserved stalls at (gen-
erally) ss. a time, and
the seats behind the
pit barrier as ordinary
stalls at 3s. each. The
Wanganui Council’s
patience seems to have
been fractured as a
result of the recent
visit of J. C. William-
son’s “Aladdin” pan-
tomime co., and the
Opera House commit-
tee has been instructed
to devise a scheme t*
put an end to the prac-
tice of charging more
than scale prices. One
suggestion was that
the rent should rise
along with the prices.
This threat set Dick
Stewart whooping like
Aged Henry. He an-
nounced (1) that ordi-
nary good business at
ordinary charges
would not pay the ex-
penses of taking such
a company or con-
glomeration as “Alad-
din ” through Maori -
land ; (2) that when
the show was at Wan-
ganui, theatre-goers,
who were charged stall
prices for pit seats,
were duly warned of
the increase (this
doesn’tseem to explain
anything, but Richard
appears to set some
store by it); (3)to raise
THE LATE ARTHUR
EDWARDS, comedian
and dancer, of “ The
Arcadians” company.
the rent would be absurd (raising- the ticket price is merely
business intelligence); (4). Wanganui would be cut out,
or the prices of admission further advanced. No. 4
should close the argument; no educated community
could afford to miss “ Aladdin ” —especially in a sky-blue
suit that looks as if it was liable to burst the day before
yesterday.
The tragic death by drowning of Arthur Edwards will
be a big loss to the Clarke-Meynell people. He was a
draw. He was not only the cleverest
eccentric dancer that Australia has seen for years, but
an artist who would have made good by his acting if he
hadn't been able to dance a step. His “ dude ” was not only
funny and original, but life-like, which are rare charac-
teristics in stage dudes. In addition, Edwards was to
have arranged all the dances for the forthcoming pro-
duction of “Tom Jones.” The art of dancing was a
passion with him, and he knew more about the stage-
possibilities of it than many professional producers three
times his age.
“ D ” : There seems to be something wrong with the
luck of the Criterion Theatre. Herbert Flemming played
there, and shortly after died, while still in his prime. John
Gunn passed over—a young man—after a brief service
there. Now Arthur Edwards follows them from the same
address. Also, several prominent actors and actresses
have appeared there who have not died—which is another
sample of the ill-fortune that attends the place.
Charles Coleman, a young Australian actor who did
well here with the Julius Knight-Ola Humphrey Co., has
made good in London. He has succeeded to Laurence
Grossmith’s part in “ Hello . . . People ! ” the new revue
at the Leicester-square Empire. The revue brand of
entertainment is new to London, and was imported
there from Paris by George Grossmith, junior. In
Paris it is a regular dramatic dish. It consists of a
plot just robust enough to support a multitude of topical
hits, skits and satires, served up by the best available
comedians. Coleman plays “A Keeper,” “A Judge,”
“Sherlock Holmes” and “ Polaire,” and in the course
of his labors sings three songs.
J. Youlin Birch, author of “A Moorish Maid ” (an
opera produced a few years back in Maoriland and Syd-
ney), and latterly chief reporter of the Auckland (M.L.)
Herald, is now on George Willoughby’s staff as press
agent with “The Night of the Party,” which unpacks
itself at the Sydney Criterion on October 1. Birch has
completed another comic opera, “The Golden Wedge,”
based on an old legend of the Incas; music by Thomas
Humphries, an Auckland doctor.
“ The Squatter’s Daughter,” in cinematograph form,
threatens to rival “The Kelly Gang” as an attraction in
all districts where the original Andersonian melodrama
has been played or talked of. When Eugenie Duggan,
Bert Bailey, George Cross and the rest of them appear on
the screen they get receptions from the audience. Heroic
rescues and comic reliefs excite cheers and laughter as
though the characters were in the flesh. The film is ter-
ribly long—6oooft.—but not too lengthy for people who
are caught by its title. There’s moneyin it, and seem-
ingly the authors of the amazing bellowdrama—Bert Bailey
and Ned Duggan—are part proprietors with Anderson in
the dumb show.
Conan Doyle must be running Barrie very close for the
position of the most-played and best-paid dramatist
“The Fires of Fate” is being done all over England-
also the bare-flst-flght play, “The House of Temperlev ”
has two companies out. The Sherlock Holmes snake-
story, “ The Speckled Band ” (for which Williamson has
the Australian rights), is also “ on the road ” with two
companies, and another is playing it in London. In one
co., Sherlock is played by Otto Heggie, the actor from
Adelaide.
“Stargazer”: In “La Bohfeme,” as presented by
Williamson’s Grand Opera Co., the need of a great com-
poser who will devise characters to suit the prevailing
stamp of soprano, and
the usual shape of the
existing tenor breed is
again urged upon the
observer. Not one of
the principals resem-
bles the bright, juvenile
spirits of Murger’s “La
Vie de Boh6me.” The
idea of a romantic
young bard starving in'
a garret is not forcibly
conveyed by a bulky
singer with prosperity
written all over his
large, round, dimpled
visage; nor can a
buxom soprano, who
looks as if she might
eat nine meals a day,
seven of them in bed,
give a suitable impres-
sion of the Bohemian
Mimi, a fragile blossom
with a canker in the
hud. I want to see
Giacomo Puccini build
a grand opera round a
parcel of fat men and a
bunch of buxom, deep-
chested women, so that
the heavy tenor and
the massive soprano
may realise themselves
and throw their whole
energy and avoirdupois
into the representation.
THE HON. LEWIS
THOMAS, M.L.C.,
Eisteddfod Patron, of
Queensland.
“0.K.”: The Asches’farewell message, with its busi-
nesslike mention of their engagement to return to Aus-
tralia in 1912, reminds one that they owed their remark-
able success to Shakspeare’s best friends—the women.
In the case of Asche and his pretty wife, the main sup-
port of the Shakspearian revivals was the enthusiasm of
the amphitheatre girls—wage-earners mostly—who out-
numbered the men by three to one. But in all parts of
the house women were more than usually demonstrative.
Shakspearian “ booms ” have always been inspired by the
more frivolous sex. There was never a real demand for
the Bard in England until Garrick came to light as
Richard 111., and even Garrick, the most natural elocu-
tionist and most forcible actor of his time, might not
have attracted the town in a series of Shakspeare char-
acters had a taste for poetic drama not been previously
cultivated, in a measure, by a coterie of fine ladies
who formed themselves into a Shakespeare Club. The
clubwomen of 1735 or thereabouts were sworn to patronise
any of the Bard’s comedies and dramas they could get,
and every week they gave an order for one or other of
them. But the acting of Quin and his contemporaries
was so stilted, and their delivery of blank verse was so
w’earisome, that the public had almost ceased to follow
the Shakspeare Club’s lead when Garrick came to show'
how the thing should be done. Garrick didn’t restore
Shakspeare’s plays to the stage. He popularised them
after they had been thrust upon the notice of theatre-
goers through the influence of a society of refined women.
In those days men formed the large majority of theatre-
goers, except in the upper circle of society. Nowadays,
women form the majority, save in the pedantic circle!
which clamors for dull “realistic” drama in place of
romantic drama, regardless of the fact that a craving for
romance and color is the most solidly real thing in
human nature.
Premier John Weary says he would like to have dancing
taught in Vic. State schools.
’Tis wise to teach the sportive whirl
To Susie, Kate and Sally,
Since, soon or late, each Melbourne girl
Is prancing in the ballet.
So give aspiring soles to all
That when school days are fled,
Plump into fortune they may fall,
Heels over head.
“Bill the Goose”: Bendigo is chiefly cursed with
miner’s complaint, too many pubs, picture shows, Chows
shrieking parsons, bad roads, goats, illicit gold buyers’
fires, non-paying mines, and a dramatic co. styled
“ The Bohemians.” The Bohemians play melodrama
yellowdrama, ordinary drama, red drama and drama
—with comedy and a fliekergraph by way of a
change. I wot of a night a friend and I recently
spent at their house of pleasure, drawn thereto by' the
adventurous show of “The Kelly Gang.” During the
first couple of acts sundry actors, who appeared unneces-
sary to the smooch running of the show, were shot,
stabbed of otherwise slain ; but the climax was reached
in Act IV. Scene .2 (the bar parToc of the Glenrowan
Hotel), when Dan Kelly and Steve Hart agreed, sooner
than be.captured, to shoot one another. Having decided
the details, each departed to his corner of the room to
get busy on the good work, which was to happen, at
the count of three. Only one gun went off; bpt
like trained actors both men dropped mortally wounded.
The audience reckoned it had been cheated, whereupon
an obliging member of the company, whose turn to be
murdered hadn’t arrived, shot Steve from the wings,
thus relieving the audience of a horrible doubt. I’ve
read Rolf Boldrewood’s version of the wickednesses of the
gang, seen the fliekergraph pictures of it, and lis-
tened round about Benalla to manv versions of the gang’s
doings by alleged eye-witnesses, but in no case can I
recall more than 26 corpses which owed their deadness to
the Kellys. Here in Bendigo, however, with a company
15 strong, 63 dead people can easily happen each time
“ The Kelly Gang” is produced. But this, of course, is
merely an average ; on special nights, I am told, the
death-roll amounts to considerably over 70 people.
The small sum of £560 lately bought certain premises
that probably couldn’t have been got for 10 times that
amount in the “ early days.” This was the old Theatre
Royal, Oastlemaine, with the delicensed hotel adjacent,
on u'hose boards had appeared most of the stars of the
digging days. A dull, drab grocery establishment is to
arise on the once joyous site. Doubtless the ghost of
other days will walk with more regularity, though less
exuberance.
Word comes from the Big Fog that Ruby Riley— good
old Ruby, as the boys called her —is doing well on the
music hall stage, where her good Australian voice ranks
high above the average. Another source of income for
the sole remaining spinster of the Riley sisters is her
hair. She is in great demand for hair-restorer advts.,
and her face, framed in woman’s greatest glory, stares at
Melbournians in London with a smile of recognition from
a thousand poster pictures.
Moving pictures in the U.S.A. are up against a new
trouble. A girl in Philadelphia committed suicide just
after seeing a deserted film-heroine do" the same thing.
Six youths in Pittsburg stuck up a tram-car and shot a
policeman who interfered ; and instead of blaming Dead-
wood Dick, as of old, they confessed to having been in-
spired by pictures. Hence many cities are now prohibiting
the exhibition, per film, of “pocket-picking, burglary,
highway robbery, safe-cracking, murderous assaults or
suicide.”
“ Stony ” : The other night, at a fliekergraph show, a
young film-lady threw herself down on a comfortable
film-sofa and moved her lips. Obviously, what she
was supposed to remark was, “ Oh, lam so tired ! ” Now,
in real stage-life, the real stage-lady would bang herself
on the sofa, breathe a sigh like escaping steam, and
bellow, “Oooh, Ai am soo tai-yjd 1" That is, to me, one
of the most attractive points about the galloping-picture
show. The ladies don’t have a chance to say, “ Oooh, Ai
am soo tai-yid,” and words to the same deadly effect.
.. j^! l -So long- as they stick to dramatic and educa-
tional subjects the Path 6 pictures are It; but can’t thev
give us a change in the humorous studies ? The central
figure of these is nearly always a “comic"man whose
mission is to break, or bump, or push over everything
p ‘ ' n Wft y> fr °m drawing-room ornaments to
H< T’ and . the more crockery he smashes
the more the audience is expected to enthuse. These
the al U *r a y e ? d U P with everybody chasing
I ®U, eBre ? co, . liedl ? n - wh “t time they trip over sundry
obstacles to give the female portion of the pursuers a
chance to show their legs ; and, as a grand climax, the
pursuers fall upon the luckless comic man in a body, and
proceed to thump him until the film is switched off. Is
my sense of humor atrophied, and is the smashing of 2681
it to be ? tS really aS fUnny a ® the lOUd fruffaw Pfcclmms
Ami : Some have pleasurable memories of reading
McOrae s Australian-written poem of “ The Man in the
iW K IaSk ’ u IC - filled a lict,e book - The biograph has
just been showing- in Melbourne a Parisian dramatic
version of this subject. It is quite fictitious, but makes
a stirring play. Fouquet invites Louis XIV. to his mag-
nitieent palace of Vaux, and the scenes of the biograph
are actually played there. Fouquet has the temerity to
make love to the King’s mistress, de la Vallibre. For
tm® and other offences he is turned into the Man in
the Iron Mask. In real history Fouquet was not in it.
Ills lengthy imprisonment was at Pignerol. The Man in
the Iron Mask died in the Bastille, after manj r years
there, with occasional mysterious journeys in custody to
other places. In travelling he wore the mask, a helmet
with the vizor down ; in quod he was allowed to wear
velvet. At least 15 persons have been variously supposed
to be the masked individual. They were : (1) Matthioli, an
Italian diplomatist bf Mantua, who made the great mis-
take of bowling out Louis XIV. on a political matter;
(2) Eustache Danger, confidential servant to a Protestant
conspirator named Marsilly; (S) Marsilly himself; (4)
bouquet’s valet, La Riviere, supposed to be the reposi-
tory o f some of the secrets of the famous Superintendent
of Finance; (s)a son of Oliver Cromwell; (6) the Duke
of Beaufort, who vanished at the battle of Candia; (7) an
illegitimate elder brother, or half-brother, of Louis XIV.,
the son of the Queen and the Duke of Buckingham ; (8) a
twin brother of Louis XIV. ; (9) a Protestant preacher,
name unknown; (10) a very untraceable conspirator
named Marchiali; (11) Louis XlV.’s illegitimate
son, the Count of Vermandois; (12) the Duke
of Monmouth; (13) Anedick, Patriarch of Armenia;
(14) a gentleman of Lorraine (no name given) with
a notorious poisoning-record and a deep design on
the King’s life ; (15) Fouquet, already mentioned.
Another theory is that there was never any Man in the
Iron Mask. Marcus Clarke made- the alleged prisoner
the King s brother in his drama of “ Plot,” played in the
old wooden Princess’s (Melbourne), with Eloise Juno as
the hero. If the Vatican could only be taken by surprise
and its archives seized by Dill Maoky, the chances are
that this and hundreds of other mysteries would be
cleared up. There was mighty little news from Roman
Catholic countries which didn’t reach the comprehensive
Papal ear in the days of the clerical ascendency.
“ R.D.” : This is a true copy of the day-bill of a show
given on the Island of Atiu (Cook Group), just before the
last Union boat called in there :
TEATA OPENGA.
RARE K TEATA AKAOU.
MAATA TE TUTU OU.
Is. Tangata. 6d. Tamariki.
Me Kare a Kotou nioni i te tutaki i te Teata, Ka rave
au i te maroro.
15 Maroro Tangata.
8 Maroro Tamariki.
Po Maanakai.
The which translated is ;
LAST THEATRE.
NO MORE THEATRE AFTER THIS.
LOTS OF NEW PICTURES.
Is. Adults. 6d. Children.
If you have no money to pay for the Show I will
accept Flying-fish.
15 Flying-fish .. .. Adults.
8 Flying-fish .. .. Children.
Saturday Night.
“ Boh ’’: They were up in the “ gods.” The lady wore
a bankrupt poultry farm as a hat. Her companion (whom
she addressed as Heric) was only remarkable for his bad
manners. Then the
lights were lowered,
and with a weary sigh
the fowl emporium
was removed and the
lady proceeded to feed
herself pensively with
peanuts. Kot so Heric.
He had a pair of
ancient opera-glasses
repaired with string,
and he focussed them
on poor Butterfly’s
shoulders. As the
music wailed and
sobbed the dreary
little tragedy gripped
you by' the throat.
Shutting my eyes tight
I tried to forget that
the woman in front
was eating peanuts,
and that the man be-
hind me had 151 b. of
cheap blacking on his
boots; and almost I
forgot my old pal, the
gas stove, that I had
left at home. Soon I
heard someone give a
miserable sniff—and
then another. I
looked quickly at the
peanut - eating fiend.
Perhaps I had mis-
judged her ; perhaps
“ YOU CANNOT HARM
ME NOW”
Suggested dress for Eistedd-
fod adjudicator.
she did feel the music and the story. She gripped
Heric’s arm as I looked. He was also crying over Butter-
fly. “ She dots care,” I muttered to myself; “ she is in
sympathy after all.” . . . “Heric,” she whispered
fiercely, “ stop that and strike a match. I’ve dropped me
fur ! ” And she sniffed again.
One metropolitan paper that had the audacity to state
that a certain very large actor was an ugly man received
by return a portrait of the actor with its par gummed
on and a lofty note from the pro: “Sir, X defy you to
reconcile these two printings.”
The latest English idea for helping the theatre to com-
pete with the variety and picture shows is a “quintuple
bill”—five short plays in an evening, so that late arrivals
will not be bothered by what they have missed. The first
programme included a Kipling drama, two by Conan
Doyle, one by a new lady writer, and one by Anstey
—who has been much boomed as a playwright by the
success of his “ Brass Bottle.”
The Besses of the Barn blow a farewell to Sydney in
the Town Hall next week—from Monday till Friday.
HIS BREAD AND HIS ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was an actor, seedy, sad,
Who stood within the gate ;
Long weary marches he had had—
He had not dined of late.
He sighed : “ I hope I don’t intrude.
Believe me or I die :
For days I have not tasted food.
A stranded player I.”
“An actor man ?” the lady said.
“ What is your favorite role ? ”
“ Hot, madam, and with butter spread,”
He answered from his soul.
VICTORIA.
D.


r
mm
faj
1 W:
MODELS—
-7 H.P. 1 CYLINDER
... to ...
70 H.P. 6 Cylinders
Illustrated Catalogues
posted on application.
Enquiries should state
approximate horse-
power and style of car
required.
The Very Best Motor Cars for AUSTRALIAN USE
are those Imported by Dalgety 8 Company Limited.
The above statement is a real fact, for Dalgety’s Car Agencies were specially selected
of the advantages they offer to the Colonial buyer. Apart from this, all models for
use are specially equipped to lur
stand our rough conditions.
on account
Australian
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
By Special
Appointment
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, M "» s '
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot. VltlOKlA.
Wedding- Receptions dnd At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
King-up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, vvheD
our Manager will call and give all details.
Barked Your Shins?
Weil, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment ; it
will take away all the pain and stiffness, and you
will forget all about it. Price Is. fid. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
THE MARTYRDOM OF MAN.
(By an inartistic contributor.)
BILLY: “Nate, Belinda, where did you get the
stylet ”
BELINDA: “It's a tube skirt, silly. I cut off a
leg of father's pants, and the rest I made
meself.”
“The Shover”: “Rabbit-running”
Chows are to he found in large quantities at
Brighton (Vic.) where the sluggish lettuce is
grown for the gratification of the anti-Labor
Melbourne housewife. In Brighton and the sur-
rounding country there is a great deal of cabbage-
country, assiduously tilled by the heathen ; and in
the Brighton backblocks, where cabbages extend
for unbroken miles, there are to be found strange,
isolated, moss-grown pubs, which bear no out-
ward evidences of a brisk, hustling trade. Busi-
ness is good, nathless, for the Chow likes his beer.
Not whisky; beer. The Chow of Brighton
can “swipe a sleever ” or a “butcher” with
the best of’em. He also “runs the rabbit.” and
may be seen at certain times of the day cantering
out from among his green-stuffs with a drinking
vessel in either hand, and returning presently to
the Chow-sty, where his mates awa.it.his homing,
kinowball, M.L.A., cold-tea apostle, represents
the Brighton Chows in Parliament; but, as Snow-
ball doesn’t know a rabbit-runner when he sees
one, he can hardly be blamed for permitting the
presence of these offensive Chow-encouraging
beer-houses in his constituency. Snowball
doesn’t know that Chows drink beer, and, as his
party approves of Chow, it is hardly worth Snow-
ball’s while to bother about knowing.
A VICTORIAN OPINION.
TEACHER : “ Now children , what
is the chief end of man? ”
MELBOURNE BOY: “ Railway acci-
dents, Miss.”
“Scribo”: Was attending the funeral of
an old councillor, ex-mayor, justice of the peace
and such like, in a suburb north of the Yarra the
other day. The cabby who was driving our party
of followers presently leaned over to me and
whispered confidentially: “By the way, who is
the gent on ahead?” "“The gent on ahead!”
Doesn’t it fit the bill ?
“L.D.S.”: The “painless” dentist is
busy raking in the cash and heaving out the
dying in Southern Maoriland. I saw a
“ demonstration ”at a pub recently. Five
patients in a row were treated, the in-
jections being made by the same hypo-
dermic needle, without any attempt at
disinfection. The gaping crowd was
amazed and delighted* Result: Unknown
to date. In the same district, I was
called to attend a severe case of necrosis
of the jaw owing to benzine having been
injected as a local anaesthetic. Result:
Patient may recover. Again, a hoy on
his way to leceive dental attention was
snatched from the doorway of a duly-
qualified resident dentist by a tout for a
quack, hustled into a so-called surgery, and
an injection of some infernal preparation
put into the gums. Result: Septic poisoning, and
death after weeks of suffering. Just one more
case. A patient was attended at her own home
in the country by one of these cheap jacks, and
given an injection similar to that last-mentioned.
That was two years ago, and the girl is still an
invalid. There is, however, some hope of her
recovery. Meanwhile, the quack hasn’t even been
arrested, and the Dental Act has apparently been
drugged and thrown into a waterhole.
* * * *
“X” tells of his escape :
Even a churchyard sometimes yawns politics. Stand-
ing near Surgeon Arndell’s grave in St. Matthew’s
churchyard at Windsor (N.SAV.) a few days ago, I was,
while meditating on the venerable old Surgeon-General,
startled by a sharp cough and noisy clearing of the
throat. The sounds came from behind a headstone a few
yards away. There was no living being but myself
within sight; so I moved cautiously to investigate.
Behind the stone indicated I found a man lying on his
back, with a red face up-turned to a noonday- sun.
“ What’s the matter?” I asked. He shifted to one side
and calmly asked : “Why?” “Because, if you stay as
you are,” I said, “the sun will set fire to your beard.”
“ Oh, that’s it! ”he said, looking up. Then turning to me
sharply, he said: “You haven’t a vote for here—l mean for
this district. Never saw you before, and I know every-
body.” “Are you a candidate ?” I asked. “No,” he replied,
“ but I’m canvassing for a candidate. You see, it’s this
way. Canvassing for a candidate gives you a fine pre-
liminary canter. You learn the course, the height of the
hurdles and the spots for showy spurts. I intend taking
to the course next, election.” “ But isn’t it rather too
late to hunt for votes here ?” I asked. “As far as I can
see everybody’s dead except you and me, and I’ve no
vote.” “ It’s not that,” he answered. “I was up most
of last night, and I’ve got to make a long speech to-
night, so I came here as a quiet place to think. The sub-
ject for to-night is” He rose to his feet, fixed me
with inflamed eyes and spread his arms. I saw he meant
to practise his oration on me, and I fled.
Tait’s rolling stock doesn’t all get smashed.
Some of it wanders off and gets bushed. At least,
that is the most feasible explanation of the mys-
tery of truck 678 R.Q. A Ballarat firm has for
three weeks been vainly trying to trace this
vehicle. It was seen to leave the yards at
Rutherglen loaded with iron and other soft,
goods, but its subsequent wanderings are
shrouded in gloom. Possibly it, too, has
been jin a collision, and the Department has
omitted to publish the fact; or it may have
toppled over a bridge and been decently buried or
cremated. Anyhow, it is missing. If anyone is
casually accosted by a stray truck, wearing a tar-
paulin hat and a coat of red paint, he would do a
public service by locking it up in the fowl-house
and ringing for the police.
Agitation prevails in the flunkey circles of
the Vic. State Parliament over the appointment
of an old gentleman named Pitts to the drowsy
billet formerly adorned by George Jenkins
and his alarming whiskers. Jenkins, who is
07, has retired from his slumbers as Clerk
of the Leg. Council (they called him Clerk
of Parliaments in consideration of his titular
absurdity) on a pension of £BOO a year.
Pitts, his “assistant” clerk, is said to be
08, and his nomination to Jenkins’s billet
is regarded as an injustice to T. G. Wat-
son, a younger and more active'cere-
rnonialist, who acts as Clerk to the As-
sembly. Watson, having done sufficient
work, of a kind, to impair his health
somewhat, is thought to be entitled to
the lighter job and advance of salary he
would get if he stepped into Jenkins’s
shoes; also, in that case, his assistant
would likewise get promotion, and both
of them seem less undeserving of pro-
motion than the gentleman who has
grown aged in the capacity of Jenkins’s
understrapper. The trouble in all its
bearings is sadly distressing. These
easy billet-holders in State Parham
ments are first cousins in official blood
to the upper servants in a ducal
household. The question as regards a
successor to Jenkins is pretty much the
same question that crops up beween
the head footman and the under butler
when his Grace’s chief butler is renioved to
another sphere by the gout.
“ J.NY.” discourses on fools :
Who said the Australians don’t want to see the Hag of
Nippon flying over their continent ? During the visit of
the Japanese training squadron to Albany (W.A.), the
officers of the ships bought maps of the surrounding-
country, made notes and took photographs openly
around Mounts Clarence and Melville, and generally
were permitted to learn all they wanted to know. As it
turned out, they did not want to know a great deal, be-
cause the officers of the previous squadron had acquired
the bulk of the information. They were courteously
shown over the forts and water supply, and expressed sur-
prise that the Bluff Headland, 700 ft. above sea level, had
not been fortified. Regrets were expressed when the
Japanese doubted the accuracy of the local charts, but
an apology was accepted with an offer to have Middleton
Bay re-surveyed. Later, the Jap admiral graciously
apologised when he was timorously informed that his
men had trespassed by fishing in prohibited waters under
the flanks of the forts. The same evening the people on
Middleton beach, watching the searchlight display, were
treated to an exhibition of special boat-drill, a large
party being landed on the shore, near the unpro-
tected back door of Fort Arthur, within half an hour.
Next day I visited the flagship in the hope of seeing the
wireless system which the Japs claim is ahead ofVlar-
coni’s. The flag-lieutenant was most polite and affable,
and full of anxiety for the welfare of the town —asked me
all about local industries, such as machinery shops ;
their capabilities of repairing ships ; size of their lathes ;
number of inhabitants, and so on. And when I men-
tioned the reason of my calling his sorrow knew no
boundaries. For himself, he would make me a present
of the wireless outfit; but the regulations were so framed
by bowelless authorities that he could not even describe
it to me. I nearly wept for the pain I had caused him,
and, when I left, I could have kicked myself for being.the
one clumsy Australian who had cast a moment’s gloom
upon the pleasure of the allies of the dear old Motherland.
“Billy B.” : The Reverend and x were
just blowing the froth off the third when the
Stranger dropped in. The most noticeable thing
about him was his bulging paunch. Thirty
seconds after he had ordered his drink he had
shoved his vast circumference between us, and
was arguing down the Rev s throat that Socialism
was hurrying the country to a nameless grave.
These were his remarks :
Don’t you tell me [we hadn’t mentioned it]. The ’ole
social fabric’s being turned inside out. When I was a
voung man it was a fair thing to do a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay. Now, all these sort of things
have been revolutionised. The ’ole trouble is that people
don’t want to work nowadays. The working man V
“ Loafin’ ’ound ”’s what I call him. YVhen I was a young
man it w'as considered a fair thing to give ’alf a crown for
a fair day’s work. In those days, sir, people ate plenty
of potatoes and whips of oatmeal, and things of that sort
of a kind ; but now nothing will do your working man
but r-ump steak, ha-am and aigs, and all those things
that lead to dissatisfaction with natural conditions.
“ Guzzlin’ ’ounds,” I say. Here’s Mr. Wade wanting
working men to construct 50 or 60 new railways to meet
urgent necessitv, and not a navvy can he get to sign
on under 30 bob a day. Hetoldme’imself! And itwouldn’t
be so bad if they’d do the work, but they point blank re-
fuse to do a hand’s turn —nothing will do but spell-o,
smoke-o, arbitration, r-ump steak, ha-am and aigs and
all that sort of thing unsuitable to that class of people.
Don’t tell me ! [We hadn’t a hope.] When I was a
young man
What he went on to say I don’t know. I was
engrossed in watching the Reverend. Standing
as close to the Stranger as that person’s bulge
would permit, the Rev. was gazing into the other’s
eyes as if spellbound by his eloquence, and, as he
gazed, he had tilted his pewter so that its contents
streamed silently down the vast, sagging paunch
of the enraged Tory. We left him standing in
the puddle, and headed for the next pub.
Tasmania isn’t more than half as dead-
asleep as it used to be. Unions are sprouting
everywhere. Even the long-suffering grocers’
assistants have formed a union of five at Laun-
ceston, and after that anything may happen—
even a union of bank clerks. A compulsory half-
holiday agitation is also going full tilt at the same
township, while the revelation of wholesale
sweating has made quite a lot of people
do some serious thinking, almost for the
first time in their lives. Still, Tasmania
has a long way to go. It is probably the only
place in Australia where, for instance, a butcher,
caught with some humming hams in his shop,
could plead that the meat wasn’t meant for
“ gents like the health inspector and Government
medical officer,” but merely for “the poor
classes, who couldn’t afford to pay good prices.”
And it certainly is the only place in Australia
where that vendor of humming hams would be
discharged without a stain on his character. Yet
that is what happened there only the other day.
NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
LIFT-BOY: “ Goin’ down , Miss ?”
The other day, when the Ballarat (Vic.)
Presbytery was considering the advisability
of abolishing picnics and discussing divers
other openings for improvement in church
affairs, the Rev. A. Moore appealed to have the
“Mother’s G’atechism ” knocked out. “I am
strongly averse to it,” he said. “Itis an extraor-
dinarily lurid affair.” This pricks curiosity. In
the absence of a literary censor the masses want
to know what Judkins is going to do about it. Of
the picnics a stout Presbyterian said that “ most
regrettable scenes had been witnessed,” and
parents should be warned of “ the moral risks
their children run on these occasions.” Meantime
the Wowser wastes his precious time counting the
harmless grasshoppers in the park !
IN CHURCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
People sleep in church because the continual breathing
<>'■ carbonic acid fas makes them drowsy.— Medical wit-
ii, mx at Westminster County Court.
This day I went to sleep in church,
My head lay heavy on my breast;
I felt it nod, I felt it larch,
Ah, ’twas a painful rest
That forty winks I had at Mass,
’Twas all carbonic acid gas !
The organ blew with all its might,
The preacher’s voice was harsh and strong,
And yet I fell asleep in spite
Of homily and song.
. Was Ito blame ? Alas! Alas !
I breathed carbonic acid gas.
Dim through my dreams, I heard the sound
Of fierce denunciations hurled
Beneath, above and all around
The Devil and his world.
I thought it strange, but let it pass—
’Twas all carbonic acid gas !
I knew in dreams the preacher-man
In many places hit me sore.
His thoughts to weird effulgence ran
E’er I began to snore.
He brayed aloud with lungs of brass,
Breathing carbonic acid gas.
1 wakened when the plate came round,
I felt the burden of my sin,
I sought in haste until I found
A thrummer to put in.
Saints grinned. I knew myself an ass,
Filled with carbonic acid gas.
n.s. w.
MARY McCOMMONWKALTH.


itfiniis
Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
DIRECTIONS ROUND EACH TABLET.
1
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
‘PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
A dose for the dear little children,
A dose for the grandsire, too ;
A dose for the father and mother
And a dose for the maid will do.
For we never have colds at our house,
And you never hear a cough ;
Woods’ Peppermint Cure is so useful,
For it always drives them off.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
OUR SPECIAL SHIRT FEATURE OF 1910—
THE SOFT NESS SHIRT
For this Summer we are introducing a special fabric—best
Egyptian Cotton—in shirting.
It has a delightfully soft feel, and is extremely comfortable
for warm climates such as ours.
The material is pre-shrunken and of great durability,
cool—in new Blues, Helio, Pink and Black Stripes,
self colors, white, and launders with every satisfaction.
The price is a moderate one, but the quality is something
quite beyond the ordinary.
Styles are soft front and body, with soft, turned-back or
short, stiff cuffs in all sizes'.
Price, 6/9; or 3 for 20/-
Posted. 6d. singly ;
or 3 for 1/-
Give size of collar worn when ordering,
will send our New Men’s Fashions Handbook
beiny published to any address post free.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,'
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A surprising end to a Melbourne romance
lias left Scandal foiled and Gossip in a state of
supreme dejection. She was 16 or so, and wore
a settled expression of “ Keep off the grass.” He
was somewhat older, and paid her discreet, if
nattering, attentions. One night the pair voyaged
abroad, per tram, and alighted at a house of
fashionable exterior. Both entered the dwelling,
and later emerged, when the damsel laid a charge
against her devoted companion. He was instantly
arrested, and trucks of bail were demanded by an
outraged Law. Subsequently, when the case
came on, the accused dealt the Bench a crushing
blow. He had married the girl in the interval,
with the consent and approval of her mother, and
she signified her wedded state by refusing to give
evidence against her husband. Kesult: Case
dismissed, and the Law celebrating its defeat in
disconsolate tears.
* * * 4r
The Melbourne municipalities have sud-
denly leaped over the dividing fence of conflicting
interests and decided that the existing and all
future tramway lines should be municipally
owned and managed by a trust. Also, they say
that new lines should be laid forthwith, without
waiting for the termination of the existing lease
to the Tram Go., and that the ordinary receipts
and expenses should be pooled and profits or
losses distributed according to the mileage
run. Of course, the councils haven’t yet individu-
ally accepted these proposals ; but if only half of
them do so, the others must presently be forced
to join in. The success of the P’ran-Malvern line
has been so great that there is more danger that
extensions will be suddenly pushed too far than
that they won’t be pushed far enough. Still,
Melbourne has almost stood still for 20 years in
the matter of transport service, so it can stand a
lot of pushing.
Private Enterprise isn’t even allowed to
poison itself as it pleases, these times. Formerly,
it was a common practice for desperate persons,
mostly young women in the flapper stage, to dis-
solve match-heads in water and succumb by phos-
phorus poisoning. But, latterly, match-head-
swallowers have failed to die; in fact, it is
impossible for the crazed flapper to pass out by
the old gate, for the simple reason that Federal
legislation prohibits the manufacture or importa-
tion of matches tipped with phosphorus. The
wax Vestas now on sale are harmless, though not
nutritious. Socialism, in this unhappy country,
pursues the inhabitant from the cradle to the
tomb—sometimes it won’t even let her get near
the tomb, but stands at the gate and jeers at the
fury of the distracted person who would be dead
save for what the Tory press calls “ pernicious
and harassing legislation.”
“E. Gad ” : Observe the difference in
treatment meted out to Nellie Stewart after her
radium effort for the poor of Sydney and to Hugh
J. Ward after his effort for the children’s hospital
here at Wellington (M.L.). Nellie was made a
life governor of the Sydney Hospital, and a cot is
to be named after her for ever and ever. On the
other hand, Ward was passed out like the swaggie
when he has “ blown ” his cheque. Over £7OOO
(carrying a Government subsidy of 245. per £)
was collected, of which Ward, by direct gift and
personal entertainment, provided £560, or £1177
with subsidy; and not half £7OOO would have
been raised if the swish of “The Girl From
Rector’s” reputation had not roused the
place. At the winding-up meeting of
the committee, the other day, jam
was laid thick on the plate of
the - Mayoral Wilfords, and
it was decided to name
the two wards in the
new hospital “Georgia”
(Mrs. Wilford’s fiont
name) and “ Wilford.”
Hugh Ward had set his
heart upon his name
being connected with a
children’s hospital, be-
cause his love for
children craves remem-
brance in theirthoughts;
but all he and Grace
Palotta and the others
got was a belated sug-
gestion, hurriedly
agreed to at the end
of the proceedings,
that “Mr. Ward
should be thanked
and furnished with a
copy of the paper re-
porting the meeting.”
However, I will say
with the Dominion
newspaper that “the
strange behavior of
the Children’s Hos-
pital Fund Commit-
tee must not be taken
to reflect the feeling
of the Wellington
public.” I don’t be-
lieve it reflects the feel-
ing of even the public hangman.
From .the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Apropos early colonial ships (B. l/9/’10). In April,
1805, James Underwood launched the first colonial ship
and named it the King George. Old pictures of Sydney
show the vessel on the stocks at the eastern end of
Underwood’s George-street property, which ran down to
the water about where Underwood-street (or lane) is
now—right at the back of The Bulletin office. The
harbor then came to a muddy conclusion about Bridge-
street.
PERHAPS.
THE PARSON : “ And when the animals were,
lining into the Ark can you tell me, my boy,
what Noah was doing?”
THE NIPPER (who has been to the circus): “ Yes,
sir, taking the tickets.”
The death of “ Soldier ” Rogers in the
boxing ring at Ballarat was right into the hands
of Wowserdom, and Judkins harps on it. Here is
a scrap from reports of his most recent out-
break : a
It was peculiar that everybody who gave evidence at
the inquest tried to prove that the man was not killed as
the result of the fight. It was said that he fell on his
head on the floor. According to that reasoning, if he
(Mr. Judkins) pushed a man over a cliff, and the man was
broken up on the rocks below, he (Mr. Judkins) would
not be guilty of his death.
There is another way to look at it. If Willie
Judkins were playing blindman’s-huff at a Wow-
ser picnic, and he (Willie Jud.) “tigged” a slim
Wowseress with such sacerdotal exuberance that
he broke her sylph-like vertebra,' and she died
impenitent, would it be proper or necessarv for
the law to seize on him (W. Judkins) and" per-
emptorily choke him with a rope ?
* * * *
There was a touch of pathos about a Chow
who tried to land in Melbourne, lately, with a
package of opium. Questioned concerning his
peculiar luggage, he said that be wanted to dis-
pose of the drug to buy soap. And still the Law
was unmoved. Evidently it thought that he was
going to attempt a disguise for some other bad
purpose.
Brother Worrall, licensed wowser, counted
30 couples canoodling on a quarter-acre plot of
garden-land in Melbourne. Brother Judkins,
on another occasion, counted
50. The most recent re-
former makes it 80. The
plot thickens !
ON THE FIFTH DAY.
RAILWAY COMMISSIONER (examining Sunday-
school): “ And what were made on the fifth
day of the Creation? ” (Dead silence.)
“Now, don’t you remember —the things that
creep upon the earth”?
THE INSPIRED SCHOLAR: “ Yes sir, I know, sir-
trains!”
Holland, which is sending some of its
Ease Indian fleet for a cruise round Australia, has
its own methods of ruling its brown brother.
There are only about five and a half million
Dutchmen altogether, while there are something
like 45 million brown brethren ; and as brown
brother, with the help of brown sister, is adding
millions while the Dutchman is only add-
ing thousands, Holland begins to reckon
that it has a sizeable proposition ahead of
it. In one remote part of Sumatra the
brown brother of Atjeh, or Acheen (you can
spell all these East Indian names in five-and-forty
ways, and every way is right) has been giving his
white bosses trouble for over a quarter of a cen-
tury, and Atjeh is, apparently, as far off as ever
it was from admitting that the Dutchman is boss
of those parts. The bill for that one little local
trouble has been just about as much as Holland
can stand up to ; so the Dutchman knows per-
fectly well that he must rule the rest by brain
and not by brawn, not having nearly enough
braWn for the purpose. His plan is beautifully
simple. In effect he says to the most influential
brown prince in every district: “Here, take a
steady job. If you went on in the old way you’d
probably get your throat cut, and you wouldn’t
have a steady, reliable job, anyway. We’ll make
you a regent at 12,000 guelders a year (£1000).”
Sp far, the steady job—and pay—has appealed to
brown brother. Then, in case the regent should
get up to tricks, a Dutch Resident is dropped
down alongside him. This Resident calls the
time, and the regent does the dancing. Practi-
cally the Dutchman doesn’t give an order to the
native—he makes the regent do that; and the
regent, being a prince!, is the person the native
has been in the habit of taking orders from. It is
a great idea, and all goes to show the tremendous
potency of steady jobs! when offered to the right
people.
“Vavau”: Vessels that trade among the
islands where brown brother boils his missionary
have a way of taking colored gentlemen as deck
cargo. Lately, on ope of these boats, a fire broke
out in the wildly-inflammable copra cargo, at a
time when there vvere about 400 samples of the
brown deck luggage on board. As there obviously
wasn’t enough lifeboat-accommodation to go round.
I asked what wopld happen in case things went
very far wrong. “Oh, the natives will have to
swim for it,” was the cheerful reply. Then I had a
look at that deck cargo and made up my mind
that if any swimming had tp be done it wouldn’t
be brown brother who would do it. Isn’t there
any law which can have a say in this matter?
Gentleman James,” from the regions
where the Dutch East Indian fleet trails its
smoke :
Torrpi 8 ! 1 p ®f. rlin P P> a ''t left the Aru Islands for
iSnnTh ' ° rde, ' s t 0 Prospect Timor Laurel
Islands on the way. This we did, and for everv ton of
oat !n"r e he O fn £ 100l 00 W °l‘ tl ', of P earls - One night the look-
on Vhe htf Bret °P swhted the smoke of a Dutch gunboat
fleetof h l« ho"V We , dldr i t vva ' t to argue the point—our
Under welerh a " d lifc out for Port
\r 1 on for water. There we were shown by the
tii?pfl^" S P ea n ln " > ' ac ' is t 0 a B niall lagoon, from which we
more £i By the , W( K' the bill ffhies in this district all
more or less speak Malay, and blacks and Malays are
intermarried (another piebald-Australian problem). One
“.S r ;° w 10111 1 spoke had his binghy harem and a half-
grown family, and had not been to bis home for seven
years, lne prows come over every nor’- west monsoon, and
oring supplies and take back what trepang- and shell have
been collected. They moor up the numerous back-
water creeks in the bays ; but I have never heard of
more than one being seen by the Customs officials, who
collected duty from that one on a few hags of rice. Yet
m those days prows came over in dozens, and probably
do so still. I myself have seen their trepang-curing
camps as far east as Blue-Mud Bay, in the Carpentaria
Gulf, and as far as Vansittart Bay, in the west—a nice
stretch of coast-line to police ! When these prows come
over there are high jinks in the binghy camp for a week
or two, for some of the bamboo spars are usually filled
with arrack. They bring over a few cases of square-face,
too, for their Chinese friends, and no doubt opium as
well. Square-face c sts them 16s. a case in the East
Indies, and the Chinamen pay them about £2 10s. for it,
and retail it for from 10s. to 15s. a bottle. If any reader
has accepted bush hospitality anywhere between Burke-
town and Wyndham, nine times out of 10 he will have
noticed that it was moistened with a bottle of square-
face. Good old square-face ; not much of it pays duly 1
It was at the “opening of Parliament,”
that function which is as useful as the poulticing
of a wooden leg. The members and their dames,
the befrilled attendants, the stately Rajah of the
Black Rod, and the magnificent Sergeant-at-Legs
were all awaiting the arrival of the Governor.
Suddenly a herald or an argus or some other old
thing yelped out: “ His Excellency thah Oovnnh
approaches the Charnbah .” Then a military buzzer,
who may have been a colonel, started to go
through the crowd, shoving it back with the
strong and careless arm of authority. Unfor-
tunately for his magnificence, he shoved back and
corn-trod a very prominent man on the Labor side
who never was blessed with an angel’s temper.
The zealous major promptly received two shocks :
first, lie was himself pushed just as rudely and
roughly back among the crowd, and then he—
even he !—saw the very prominent man turn to
the Premier and ask: “What's he doing here?
Shouldn’t he be working ?”
THE PITFALLS OF SCIENCE.
THE PATIENT: “ Yes , they grafted some of a
sailor’s arm on to my nose all right; hut
they might have been a little more careful
where they took the piece from.”
It seems that Germany suffered from
Dreadnauses too. Edward Bernstein, a leading
politician of the KaYser]»nd/i writes thus to the
London Nation (30/7/T0) .
At a General Assembly of the German Ladies’ Naval
League, held at Heidelberg last week/it was stated with
deep sorrow that a collection initiated'fi ve years ago for
the purpose of presenting the Fatherland with a Dread-
nought, as a gift from its patriotic daughters., would, if
the subscriptions went on at their present rate, realise
the required amount not earlier than in 2111 a.d.
—say 200 years hence. And this, although the League
is composed of women of the wealthy classes of the
Empire, and is patronised by the highest members of the
aristocracy.
So even the fearful slump that overtook the
Dreadnought idiocy h *re wasn’t original.
MUMPS AND MAN-O'YVARSMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On arrival from Brisbane H.M.S. Challenger was placed
in quarantine, in consequence of an outbreak of mumps
on board.
Rule Britannia! There’s a warship snugly moored in
quarantine,
And her skipper’s in the dolefullest of dumps,
For his vessel’s out of action,
While a very tidy fraction
Of his officers and men have got the mumps.
When our tars have gone a-cruising in some ports in
foreign parts
We have known ’em get the “jim-jams” and the
“jumps,”
And the grog that’s made by Roosians
Undermines their constitooiions ;
But we never knew that sailors got the mumps.
Did the tars of ancient story—those who used to give
their foes
Such particularly awkward bumps and thumps,
Braving shot and shell and fire—
Ever happen to acquire
Such an infantile disorder as the mumps?
W hen bold Oollingwood and Nelson used to boss the
narrow seas,
And to make the French and Spaniards stir their stumps,
Jack at sea and Tom in barrack
Got blind drunk on rum or arrack ;
But we never heard of either getting mumps.
Picture Nelson at Trafalgar, fancy Grenville on the seas—
Twould be quite enough to give ’em both the grumps
If the French were in the offing
And their own Jack Tars a-coughing—
Down with measles, influenza or the mumps.
Or imagine Drake and Hawkins madly storming on their
decks,
And their sturdy backs adorned with wrathful humps—
Spanish sailors in the Channel,
And their own all swathed in flannel
In their hammocks under hatches with the mumps !
Mumps make sea-controlling Britons like a lot of helpless
kittens,
Turning able-bodied seamen into frumps ;
British tars may rule the ocean,
But the doctor with his lotion
Takes the helm when man-o’-warsmen get the mumps.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.
A SUMMARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What is Life ?
Love and strife,
Peace and war by turn in patches ;
Kiss and blow,
Weal and woe—
Hatches, Matches and Despatches.
Here on earth,
Panjr of Birth
Day by day the door unlatches ;
On the bier
Falls a tear—
Hatches, Matches and Despatches.
Gladsome cry,
Sob and sifrh,
Joy and yrief in briefest snatches ;
Birth and breath,
Love and Death—
Hatches, Matches and Despatches.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN


1 S - r C'fixen " lirerc P° ; " 15
rvjucVi "'sccrfecy Ibe Cc»iy»s.
Well We fe le-r everybody Know
lIOW lone wve been
ou-Tof e*>|>loy«je>i+\
' " 6>« t '
<^wd 1 "$e quejltoM of
beve^pes.^' 1 !
jcConficfe*il7aJ •
DANCING AS A RECREATION.
MR. MURRAY’S ADVOCACY.
From the recreative point, he was an
advocate of the innocent form of danc-
Ing, as it added to the refinement and
- carriage of the individual, and if he had
his way he would add it to the curri-
culum of the State school.
2>ee«
gla^ncuTgr^
s'lly •'— J)o rfey cajl
lop- Kolll
_ "
n ojr i c e.
NO IKYMtN
AUUO'N E. 0
V/ITHItW A [
-/A,RO OF THIS
TAW K
i E NIACKEY
LAW FOR. LAWYERS.
HU latest productions are a Bill to.
Amend the Supreme Court Act of 1890.
fnd a Bill to Amend the Law Relating
to Arbitration. The first seeks to pro-
hibit persons other than, bar- srs ,
risters and solicitors from:
prepacing legal documents for
fee or reward. It also pro-
vides penalties for persons pretending
falsely to be barristers and solicitors,
or sending, delivering, or causing to, be.:
published any false
process. «Mr.
Norman Bayles,
is joined with
Mr. Mackey
in the intro-
duction
of the
measure.
In due course It was decided to appeal
to the people of Victoria for funds
wherewith to erect a memorial to
perpetuate the memory of Thomas
Bent. The result of that appeal to-day
has barely reached £IOO.
VicWhin ve Ifrey qoit7j> 1° f ,x
Statue ? ) io ifiroW tnual
bt it I"
'pfi Holier of tVe W. C.TU Iv^eo+s
Ae Kv*»s 11
10 {ayour ™eTed4v
&w.' - A
Rtferro I A-t
t . b.'Wb.re ifibt ve
Vibei' in Your boy»tn Teddy y
vet*, first:s-teb on % J /
downward ay -fitJ /
-fIW aliped
T)Rouc*f
r
STATEMENT BY
MR - QRaham.
The Minister for Agriculture (Mr.
Oraham) says: “ I know myself that
farmers are being influenced by reports
that a drought has been predicted. I
would just like to tell landholders to.
go ahead with, their own affairs, and
forget all about this talk, of droughts.
They have nothing to fear."
EVENTS IN VICTORIA.


Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAfIONDS REDUCED Enormously
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings, Pendants
and Jewellery generally, at prices never before
attempted in Australia.
WHY?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency
that calls for an enormous output, and we
have to live up to it, and so, to increase our already
large output, we are offering all Diamond Goods at
merely a commission on the actual cost.
will pay us, because of the advertisements, and the
increase of customers.
w, ;
,<r : v-
>7;
Specially Selected Diamonds, £2O.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax <& Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Te Babarantiko,” on one brand of the
cullud person that J. Currie Elies swears by :
For 10 years I have traded for copra in the Central
Pacific, and I could use up a month telling of the tricks
and swindles the niggers have practised on me and other
traders, and with perfect immunity too —how they
begged and wheedled and cajoled for goods on credit,
with the most solemn promises of payment, promises
they never kept and never had the faintest intention of
keeping. When requested to pay they laugh. One
village owes me £l5O at the present moment —has owed
it for nine years now, and will most enthusiastically and
unanimously owe it for ninet.v-and-nine more years.
■Once I called a public meeting for a final discussion of
the matter. They didn’t deny their indebtedness; only
they wouldn’t pay. A good deal of the debt was money
borrowed to put in the mission collection-box, so I may
get my reward in Heaven.
In my dealings with the Kanakas I have rarely known
one tell t,he truth about even the simplest matter. Yet I
have never known one tell the same lie twice. It has
always been a different lie. I have seen the brown man
do a certain thing when I stood looking at him, and saw
him do it, and he knew I saw him do it, yet he hassworn
to my face that he hadn’t done it.
I have doctored him when he was sick, helped him with
gear for getting his food, and have never found one who
really knew what gratitude meant. Men and women
under the greatest obligations to the traders behave
worse than the others. You may do everything in the
world for a Kanaka—you may even save his life ; but he
will always turn dog on you sooner or later—generally
sooner. If it is later—well, he turns more dog to make
up for the delay.
THE CAUSE OF DEFEAT.
GINGER: "Garni Who got beat on Saturdee?”
MICRO : “ You wait till next match. Our men
'ad been eating green quinces on Saturdee—
that's why!”
“ Harry Butler ”: One instance of Riverina
'(N.S.W.) hospitality. Struck a place one night
when it was raining as if the sea that laves the
■Golden Shore had fallen through the bottom of
the wine-cellar of Heaven. In answer to my
knock, a tin-whiskered person poked his skull or
■cranium out of the door. “ Can I stay here for
the night?” I asked. “Yes,” snarled the
apparition; “y’ can stay there as long as y’
blanky well like.” Then he slammed the portal.
UNREASONABLE.
FATHER : “ Why don't yer answer me when I call per?"
SON: “I didn't hear yer.”
FATHER: “ Why the blazes don't yer listen when I'm going to call yer yer little fool!”
“W.L.”: With reference to a par in
The Bulletin (25/8/TO) re Mrs. Dost Mahomet.
Not abo vea two-hours’drive from Mudgee(N.S.W.)
lived a family that I remember well. An Indian
hawker happened along, took a fancy to the 16-
year-old daughter, paid the mother £2O (she
wanted £3O) for the girl, and married her. In the
same locality a Frenchman married a black
woman, and the issue was a half-demented
daughter, who married the son of a white woman
and a Chinaman. A daughter by this last mar-
riage married a full Chow, but subsequently
divorced him. I don’t think the remedies sug-
gested by The Bulletin to prevent this sort of
thing are severe enough. I think the bridegrooms
should be arrested and thrown into a quicksand,
each with a grindstone tied to his feet.
* # * *
“ Caber “ Scapegoat ” (B. l/9’/10) casts
a glare of suspicion upon my knowledge of the
prickly pear and its evil influence on the
morals of an otherwise respectable com-
munity. Got my knowledge “from the
carriage-window of a passing train,” did I ?
Great Heavens ! What blasphemy ! I, that
have known the spiked anathema when
there wasn’t a square mile of it in Queens-
land ; I, that have tried to burn, drown
and poison the vegetable horror; I, that
have hoisted tons of it on the roof of a
galvanised shed, and seen it luxuriantly
blooming after three months ; I, that have
fed the blighting curse to my neighbor’s
nannies, and have borne the look of
withering scorn those goats bestowed on
their benefactor ; I, that have sat in the
silent watches with a pair of tweezers, ex-
tracting the three hundred millions spines
garnered in the day’s wrestle with the
abomination—l, even I, am to be told that
mine was only a passing acquaintance with
the blasting cactus ! When “ Scapegoat ”
remarks that he boiled the pear spines into
a jelly it’s my turn to perch in the scoffer’s
chair. Nothing short of a steam hammer
will reduce the spines of a fully-developed
pear to pulp—you might as well try to boil
a slab of myall. As a matter of fact, our
girls use pear spines for hatpins. Either
“Scapegoat ” caught his pear in infancy or
he boiled down sow-thistles in mistake.
Anyway, there’s a short cut to a fortune
right before him. Queensland’s Land
Minister Denham is offering the title
deeds of a reserve near Clifton and £1 an
acre bonus, and “ Scapegoat ” should grab
that opportunity hard by the top knot.
There is pear enough there to feed all
the cows he can muster; and Denham
will probably throw in a few casks of
molasses to counteract the “astringent
properties of the pear acid.” Having no
other use for it, “ Scapegoat ” can then
buy beer with the £1 an acre that the
Government will throw in.
“ Gilrooney ” : The prospector, although
always living in hope, is generally a pessimistic
cuss who chases the rainbow’s end—and never
expects to reach it. Yet, withal, he is a splendid
example of a scrap of humanity fighting patiently
against fearful odds. Rough living, sickness and
suffering, thirst and famine, and “no tick” are
part and parcel of his existence, but these handi-
caps deter him not—nor will they till the end of
time. A prospector out in the dreary Barrier
ranges summed up the situation fairly well not
long ago, when he wrote as follows to a friend in
Broken Hill: “ A prospector’s doom: He comes
into this world without being asked ; he works
hard, fares hard, dies hard—and then goes to
Hell after all ! And if he doesn’t hurry up he
won t even get there; Hell is becoming fearfully
overcrowded.”
“Silas Snell” : Many people had noticed
the strange man hanging about Palmer's house.
Palmer lived on the outskirts of Rosella, and
Rosella at its best was not a densely populated
centre. The stranger was a short, thick-set,
sullen-looking man, with black clumps of eye-
brows and large ears. Two or three spoke to
Palmer about it, pointing out the loneliness of
Mrs. Palmer and the danger of the situation.
Palmer said nothing, but it was reported later
that he and the stranger had exchanged blows on
several occasions. Then came the aggravated
assault. The black-browed unknown had actu-
ally invaded Palmer’s home in broad daylight and
carried Mrs. Palmer off by force of arms. He had
carried her as far as Hogan’s corner paddock,
when Palmer, who had been hastily summoned
by a cow’s valet, arrived on the scene. Then
Palmer and the stranger fought. The engage-
ment was brief but vicious. It was ended by the
arrival of reinforcements from Rosella. Rosella
was enthusiastic in support of the domestic
virtues. Its deputation seized upon the loathly
stranger, and threw him into Hogan’s dam.
Three times he crawled out, and twice he was
thrown in again. While a goose was being
plucked and tar was being warmed forhisentertain-
ment the sullen stranger took to his heels, and
found refuge in the hills. Palmer, who had been
heating the tar, was quite disgusted. “These
blokes wot go runnin’ off with wives orter be
taught a lesson,” he said. Divorce proceedings
commenced a month later. Palmer was co-
respondent, a circumstance Rosella couldn’t
understand. It called on Palmer and Mrs.
Palmer for enlightenment, and Palmer offered a
full explanation. Mr 3. Palmer was the other
fellow’s wife.
Old Tweed River (N.S.W.) timber-getters
—they are mostly cow-cockies now—have hung
many a yarn on a giant cedar, said to have been
cut down in the wild country at the head of
Wollumhin Creek, a tributary of the Tweed. The
monster began to be reckoned a myth, until two
young bush men came back from a search for the
stump. They had found it—l2ft. high and over
60ft. in girth. The head of the monster was also
measured: its diameter where the log was cut,
just below the first branch, was a little over Bft.
The stump is well-preserved, and there is many a
good coffin in it still, although it has been stand-
ing for about 30 years.
“ Dandalup ” : Where did “C.S.A.” (B.
1/9/10) pet his notions re the unpalatable char-
acter of the wallaby as a Sunday dinner dish?
Some pal from Circular Quay must have palmed
ancient water-rodents off on him under the dis-
guise of wallaby. I have lived to a great extent
on the small, succulent animal for weeks. I’d
just as soon have a serving of wallaby as a big ’roo
steak—and I’d rather have a slice of big ’roo than
any city dish ever served at the Australia or
Menzies. “C.S.A.” ejaculates that lie would
“sooner eat jugged Chinaman.” Weil, I wouldn't.
Still, if “C.S.A.” likes to dine off Chow, he’d
better start to work at once—Australia’s got a lot
of heathen to get rid of. When Matilda and I
strike Paradise I won’t growl about the tucker as
long as I get nothing worse than grilled wallaby
on toasted halo, served up at eternity’s breakfast
table.
• * * *
“ C.V.E.” : In The Bulletin (1/9/TO)
“ C.S.A.” says he has never known an Australian
to eat wallaby. In what part of Finland does
“ C.S.A.” reside ? I’m an Australian, and I say
wallaby is first on the tucker list provided in the
bush—easy. Cooked any old how, wallaby is
good ; stewed, better ; braized in a camp oven
with a few onions, bosker. If “C.5.A.,” un-
knowingly, was served with braized wallaby he
would think he was enjoying a tender piece of the
negative of the cow’s paramor.
**’ ‘ * *
“ Pick ” : “ C.S.A.” is just plain liar when
he avers (B. 1/9/TO) that no Australian will eat
wallaby. I have eaten wallaby, as the only beef
obtainable, for many months at a stretch, and
have met dozens of good Australians who agree
with me that the flesh of the red hill wallaby is a
first-rate substitute for the juicy veal of a nine-
months calf. Wallabies, when poor, have para-
sites, certainly ; but I have never found them re-
duced to the shuddery condition to which poverty
will often firing cattle, sheep or pigs, and I have
the most supreme contempt for the cuss, bloke or
cove who says their flesh is worm-infested. Of
course, a hunter, when after wallaby-tucker, must
pick his game, just as a shepherd picks his ration-
mutton. The brown brush, or the black swamp
wallaby, especially if he is an old male, is some-
what Kosciuskan, both in the matter of scent and
flavor; but, then, old bulls, rams and boars are
not regarded by epicures as tasty, and I opine
that even “ C.S.A.” in his perverted preference
for jugged Chinaman, would have drawn the line
at the late old Empress-Dowager in her last
hours.—[Eighty-seven other people write to tell
“C.S.A.” that he is a liar.—Ed.]
A LEVELLING-UP.
APPLICANT: “ I am, sir, the Right Honorable
Lord Maderbrasse, K.C.M.G. My card and
seal.”
ST. PETER: “ Maderbrasse? Maderbrasse? No
such name in my book. Any baptismal
name ?"
APPLICANT: “ Yes — aw—William Jones.”
ST. PETER: “ Right — aw — Jones; try round the
back.”
“ Thoughtful Theo”
Let’s see, what were we talking about? Bush cook-
ing, wasn’t it? Remember when I was travelling between
Fowler’s Bay and Eucla I hit the Bight Hut. There’s no
place nearer Nowhere than that. An old shepherd was
in charge. He was so ancient that his wiry whiskers
were eaten through in places with the rust. As he didn’t
have a visitor every year, he cooked a meal worthy of the
occasion. It was cold mutton, damper, jam, mustard
and rice pudding. The pudding was the thing that was
calculated to be worthy of the occasion. I had a lot of
meat and a little mustard. He had a lot of mustard, and
a little meat. Also he took mustard with the rice pud-
ding ; also with the damper and the jam ; also in his tea.
He said his palate was nearly worn out, and nothing but
mustard tickled him—except whisky. Whisky was the
only thing that didn’t call for mustard, he said. I had
some. It raised blisters right down. It even caused a
twinge in Old Hundred’s interior. But he smacked his
lips, and asked whether it wasn’t worth coming to the
Bight to get liquor like that.
A LAST ENDEAVOR TO MAKE MacGILLICUDDY
COME HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our friend, the Sun, is gone behind the hill;
The forest, like a baited army corps,
Against a sky of red is standing still;
And hark ! the boom of surf along the shore !
In smokihg clouds of foam the rollers roar
A last, salute with master gunners’ skill.
Put on your hat, MacGillieuddy, for
Our friend, the Sun, is gone behind the hill !
Our friend, the Sun, is gone behind the hill ;
Gone is the liquor that we brought to pour.
Where are the ships that used to back and fill
Afar upon that lonely, leaden floor?
Oh ! pay attention to me, I implore 1
And answer me abruptly if you will;
But ansiver me, MacGillieuddy, for
Our friend, the Sun, is gone behind the hill!
Our friend, the Sun, Is gone behind the hill
(I must repeat it, though it is a bore !)
Look not at me as if you meant to kill !
You take no stock in versifying lore?
Well, take the bathing garments that we wore,
And seek the pub, and pay the final bill!
We must away, MacGillieuddy, for
Our friend, the Sun, is gone behind the hill 1
Mao, though you brain me for it, with an oar,
Or make me eat my words (a bitter pill !),
I must destroy your dream with it once more—
Our f riend, the Sun, is gone behind the hill!
N.S.W.
KODAR.
INEXPLICABLE EVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
I have no vain desire to air
My much superior common sense,
Nor on the subject of the fair
To offer points to Providence ;
But true it is, with my advice,
•Man might have stayed in Paradise.
There was, in those times, to be sure,
Small chance of studying the sex,
But still Eve’s weaknesses endure
The calm of Adam’s life to vex.
And what she did in Eden then,
To-dav the wretch would do again.
With calm she faces terrors dire,
And faints for awe of little things.
She gave the world to sin and fire
For love of serpent whisperings.
Now, had a mouse been in the plan,
There would have been no fall of man !
EDISON.


What’s the time? . Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming; Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE, the world-wide Cold
and Grip Remedy removes cause. Call for full name.
Look for signature—E. W. GROVE. I/l£. [2
Edinburgh.
The Old Blend.
Whisky
OllieCT PROM DISTILLER &. ▼
ALWAYS THC SAME. PURE
MATURED SCOTCH MALE* *
Skin Diseases,
Including eczema, pimples, rashes, boils, chil-
blains, ringworm, shingles, ulcers, old sores,
have their cure in Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Sold iii triangular pots at Is. Gd. and 3s.*
Ideas. It doesn’t look like work. It is
done so smilingly, with such unfailing good
humor, such alacrity, such a spring of welcome
toward each new phase of the job as it presents
itself, that you say to yourself, this man is at
play. But he isn’t quite—he’s doing something
more interesting. Thanks to invention lie’s per-
forming a task that used to leave him in beads of
perspiration. He’s lightened his task and is
delighted thereat. See him smile. Before
publishing it he’s writing at once to Phillips
Ormonde’s, the patent agents, 266 Flitiders
Street, Melbourne.*
“ The Mussel ” tells it beery tale :
The only placeX'know of where things are intelligently
arranged is Mildura (Vic.). All the streets running east
and west have numerals. All the streets crossing at
right angles are called “Avenues”—such as “Apple
Avenue,” “Gooseberry Avenue,” etc.
I arrived at Mildura early one morning, and niv friend
was waiting for me. He showed me round the town.
He showed me over the Mildura Club, the Settlers’ Club
and the Working Men’s Club. Also, he showed me over
the Settlers’ Club, the Working Men’s Club and the
Mildura Club. He rung the changes on me till late in
the evening. Then we started off up Apple Avenue. He
lived in 19th-street.
When we arrived at what he asserted was 19th-street,
he said, “ I will make sure about this,” and he called in
at a house near the corner. The.man told him it was
17th-street. “We have only two streets to go,” he said.
This shows you the beauty of numbering streets.
We walked two streets, but my friend said the place
seemed unfamiliar. He roused up another man, who
came out in great anger and informed him it was 15th-
street. We had been going in the wrong direction, and
this only shows whata good thing it is to number streets.
We sat down and had a drink, and discussed the ques-
tion (for we carried a bottle). Then we started off for
home again. George (that was my friend’s name) called
in at another house and asked the nanie of the street.
When he came out he said; “That darn’d man must
have shifted his residence. He’s the same bloke I met
before."
“ He told me to go this way,” said George, sweeping
his hand round the horizon. “ But which door was I at?
You can’t tell from here.”
“ I thought you knew your way about these parts,
George,” I said.
“So I do,” said George, a bit indignantly. “But if
you don’t know where you are, how can you tell where
you ought to go to?” The argument was irrefutable.
We had a drink. Then George tried another house. I
leaned over the fence and waited for his return.
George returned backwards, a huge black dog with
bristling hair and rumbling voice following him. George
was saying, “ Good doggie ! Good old dog ! ” He got
safely out of the gate, and told me he was trying to coax
the dog out, as he was well bred. We had a drink, and
George called at another house. A man came out with a
club.
“ Same man,” said George disconsolately.
“You must be in love with that man,” I remarked.
George refused to answer. We had a drink.
We came to another house. George suggested that it
was up to me to make inquiries. I saw George was a
little bit off, so I undertook the responsibility.
I met a savage dog half-way down the footpath
and backed out the same as George—speaking very sooth-
ingly to the dog all the time.
“ Wot are you doing with my dog?” said George, sar-
castically. “I saw him first.”
“George,” said I, “if I can only induce that dog to
come out, he is yours for life.”
We had another drink.
George called at another house.
A man came out with an axe. This time he came right
out and showed us home just about daybreak.
This shows how easy it is to get home if the streets are
properly numbered.
* * * *
“ Wonga ” : Re “ Geofred ” and shearing
Angora goats (B. 8/9/’10). That writer evidently
ate a brewery before lie visited the shed, or else
the Bananaland goats are a different sort from
the ones down this N.S.W. part. At Wyalong,
about the main Angora goat place in the Ma
State, there is no trouble in shearing the horned
beasts. In fact, plenty of the shearers reckon
they would sooner handle them than flock rams, or,
for that matter, the ordinary station sheep. Only
last year one of the old hands sent word that he
couldn’t come to shear the sheep, but would
happen along later, if it suited, to take a hand at
the goats. As to the perfume—well, it must have
been the beer. The real Angora is neither a
stinker nor a furious outlaw, and is as far removed
from the backyard William goat as he is from a
stud merino ram.
“ Tabua ” : “Vigilans”’ statement (B.
30/6/’10) that the estuarine crocodile is found in
the Fiji group hits me where I keep my stock
of interest. I cannot claim to have gone out
looking for crocs., hut in the course of
several years spent in Fiji I have never
seen one, nor have I heard of the man,
black or white, who has had better luck.
Still, there may be something to war-
rant “Vigilans”’ statement. Any-
way, there is a legend among some
of the Ba River natives of a vast
lizard of amphibious habits, whose
existence was a continuous source of
annoyance to the niggers of older days.
He was dealt with as ' follows:
That essential character of all native
legends, “the bravest; man in the
tribe,” volunteered to stand by
the river bank and act as bait.
When the reptile reached out for
his kai-kai, the other nigs. • heaved
good and 'hard on a noosed rope
which had been put ready, and
hoisted the creature right up out
of Fijian history. The yarn stops
tnere. Its natural conclusion was
too obvious to be worth tell-
ing—the beast was con-
scientiously devoured by
the nigs., and found
favor in their eyes,
for the Fijian values
food in proportion
to its toughness and
stringiness. Nothing
very definite in
this, I admit; yet
it creates a horrid
doubt, and I have
decided to always
take , the family
blue-bag out with
me when I go bath-
ing in future. Or,
after all, was “Vigi-
lans’ ” reference to
the Fijian crocodile
just his subtle way
of referring to the
co. that runs our leading industry?
A MEMORY OF THE PAST.
TEMPEBANCE PARTY : “Ah, my •pore fellow, do you never wish that you could live your, past
over again ?”
DINGO RADDLES (with fond, moist memories): “My oath, mate!”
“G.R.F.”: The Thursday Island pearlers,
who are just now having trouble with the Japanes e
divers, deserve all they get from the Monkey
people. In the old days these pearlers had white
divers, but turned them adrift because they
wanted decent pay. My experience of master
pearlers convinces me that they are dashed
sweaters, whose only reason for employing Asiatic
divers is that they (the Asiatics) spend most of
their earnings on , the pearlers’ slop-chest.
All the same, I am satisfied that the time will
come when the industry will be once more in the
hands of the white men. They will work the
boats, and rear families of staunch seafarers on the
northern coast of Australia; but the Australian
Government will have to take a hand. You
haven’t any idea, have you, when the Govern-
ment proposes to make a start?
IT HAD PROVED
UNNECESSARY.
“Call that a road! Why, blime, yer oughter
’ave a notice up saying it's a man-trap!”
“So we did for about two years , but nobody never
got hurt, so we took it down again."
MATE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Boulder parson, named Beukers, shot this off hiachest
the other day: “The word ‘comrade’ sounds better
than‘mate.’ ‘ Mate ’is vulgar. An orator can address
a crowd better when he says ‘comrades.’”— Westralian
paper.
Oh 1 I thank you, Mister Beukers, from the bottom of my
heart 1
And sincerely, right away, I wish to state
You have acted in your teachings a most philanthropic
part -
By denouncing such a vulgar word as mate l
From the time we’ve finished mooring till'the “stand-
by ” bell is rung,
(It may be noon or four o’clock or eight),
There is always some stentorian and harsh officious
tongue
Calling, like a blanky parrot “ Where’s the mate ? ’’
“ Mate 1 ” “ Mate 1 ”
(Yelled like Billingsgate)
We want a “fall ” for “ number two” and really cannot
wait 1
For the stevedore’s offended
’Cause the cargo work’s suspended,
Who in h—l has seen that lazy brute, the mate?
There are seven able seamen ; but the stevedore has four
Driving winches for his cargo night and day,
And the bounders from the “ office’’—living peacefully
ashore —
Say : “ The ship is in a most disgraceful way 1
Please instruct your mate as follows,” does the skipper’s
letter run,
And he hands it on to me with looks of hate,
And 1 mutter: “ Well, you tell them that we’ll get the
d d work done
If they’ll get another hand to help the mate! ’’
Mate 1 Mate 1
(Curse my rotten fate!)
The ship is all to blazes, and her gear’s all out of date !
What with chippin’ and with paintin’
It would send a blessed saint in
D——d hysterics, if he took the job of mate 1
There is timber to be ordered to make “fittings” for the
sheep
We are bringing from the sultry nor’-west ports,
And old “ Chippy,” with a fat head, gets about like one
asleep,
And a blasted able seaman’s out o’ sorts.
There’s a coalie got his head split with a cob of bunker
coal,
And the “ super ” says : “ The ship must not be late.’’
Whilst I tie the coalie’s head up comes a sound that sears
my soul—
’Tis another rotter yelling for the mate 1
Mate 1 Mate 1
(A man of high estate),
“More cargo slings in number four!” and “What’s
that boiler’s weight?”
All for fifteen “ quid ” per “lunar”
Month, and I, indeed, would sooner
Be a bless&d bottle-washer than a mate 1
But when I become a “ comrade ’’ things will be as right
as rain,
For the word will “ tie their tongues up,” so to speak ;
And to Parson Beukers gratefully I give my thanks
again,
And he’s welcome to my thrummer once a week.
’Twill be, “ ’ave you seen the comrade ? ” Bless my soul!
It couldn’t last 1
They’d come back to the old word I reprobate 1
And whene’er I’d got to thinking all my troubles had
gone past
I would hear a wild voice yelling: “Where’s the
mate ? ”
Mate, Mate,
Pass around the plate 1
And may there be no stretch of sea inside old Peter’s
gate.
But when I pass through the portal
I am sure some d d Immortal
Will exclaim, in jeering tones: “Oh 1 here’s the mate 1 ”
AT SEA.
A. TROSS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice fexcent of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken. re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. xoill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.K.: Rubbish. The Labor party doesn’t want
“ victims.” It says there are too many already. It
doesn’t want land-tax revenue. It wants land. It isn’t
“ bitterly' opposed to all immigration.” But it is bitterly
opposed to immigration before decent land is available
or the immigrants. Riverview : Don’t know anybody
who would be likely to take it on ~ Spes: Heavy aa
lead, and not half as useful. ...Chas. B. : “Picnic” very
cheap stuff, about three-ha’pence a yard, and full of
knots at that ...V.J.: Too vague ; and when did
“ Dagoes ” begin to wear turbans?. .. .Funnel: The
grandfather of all chestnuts.... Jobber : ‘The One-
Armed Man ” fell into the hold and broke his neck, in
consequence of which his head had to be amputated
Boggabri: Thanks for the information that you have the
letter of that high official denying that one of his police-
men looked on approvingly whilst “plain Bill Marlin-
spike,” of H.M.S. Hogwash, loyally laid out the alleged
Empire Da,v Socialist, who refused to remove his hat
when commanded to do so by the mannerless sea-ele-
phant. We don’t, however, feel equal to dragging that
salted romance out of the tomb. Public interest in it
faded out some months ago F.G.: Will print one
round of your wife-beating' poem. It reads as if it had
been written during a family riot:
The Woman You’ve Treated Cruelly.
There’s a woman you’ve thrashed and beaten—a woman
you can’t forget,
There’s a woman you don’t like meetin’ for fear y T ou will
kill her yet.
Lo ! her threats sound there, and the moaningfollows you
down in the years.
If you ever think of atoning, just think of her spiteful
jeers,
For you were incessantly trying to shut out fierce dreams
of her.
While, her friends, and her relatives were sighing you
slink away like a cur.
She’s the woman you’ve thrashed and beaten with a stick
that you took from the rack,
If she follows you while you are fleetin’, bid her beware
of another dam whack.
....Claudius: Get you a match, good Claudius, and at
midnight burn it, lest on you fall the wrath of mighty
Caesar! Give place !....F.L.P. : The sonnet is under-
done and your handwriting is a severe handicap. We had
to look several times at “ the blithesome sausages of
Pump" before we discovered that what you really meant
was “the blithesome messages of Spring.”... .R.McL.:
No; regret to say it was unsuitable....l.M. (V.): Your
bald-headed and unilluminated address to Venus has two
false rhymes in the second verse. Ask the star to ex-
cuse you, and go inside and mend the mistakes with your
rhymingdictionary... .N.L. : Fell asleep from exhaustion
three times whilst reading it, and had to buy a whisky at
the end to help us through the rest of the day. Have
debited you with the cost of the whisky. Poem is fear-
fully lengthy and jog-trots along in an uninteresting
fashion. Build a rhyme of reasonable dimensions and we
Will have a look at it.. ..V.E.T. (V.) : Unfortunately, yon
have not sufficient skill as yet and “ Chaildhood ” doesn’t
live up to its joyous title. It is refreshing to see the
word spelt as the heroine drawls it in the third act
It.H.J. (N.S. W.): A hopelessly bald-headed production.
...H.H.G.; The verses are ragged and the landlady’s
protest re the late piano-smiting disturbing her boarders
seems a reasonable one. The fact that some of the
boarders sleep in the drawing-room, and that her fowls
fly over the fence into your garden, are side issues, and
have no direct bearing on the subject. The question is:
Are your people competent players or mere keyboard
bangers? The curse of bad music and insanely late music
is a very real one in the suburban terrace; and unless
you can prove that your crowd turn loose the real dream-
ful article on the midnight air, we will give the landlady
a verdict for the full amount with costs and declare the
innings closed Kalinin : Too slight C.V.E.: Poli-
tical rhyme too rough ; other may d 0... .Temp: Pleasant
jingle, but rather shallow and rambling An Unknown
Contributor: Two unsigned anti-wowser rhymes type-
written in purple ink on pink paper unsuitable. ...
Argon : The central idea is not new. Remember reading
an American humorous sketch some years ago in which a
mean poultry farmer played the same trick
Tauruga: Too slight W. Wallaby: Daresay you
had a thundering good time, but it is a dull narra-
tive as written E.C. (S.A.): Tea-rhyme reserved
for a second reading; others rather commonplace
J. Rudd: Billy’s pilgrimage is too long. You seem, to
have forgotten the First Commandment: “ Thoushaltnot
write on both sides of the paper.” The Listener : Mining
rhyme may pay a divvy Margaret Richard: Graceful
enough, but a little out of our line. Try another paper...
Fieldsend : Regret to say that the lifeboat capsized in the
angry surf that beats about the basket ...S. Runner:
Verses unsuitable J. F. Maguire: Many thanks for
letter Kunkurri: Pointless; you merely erect a bogey,
which nobody takes very seriously, and then knock him
down again .. .T.E.S. (Vic.): Merely the transposition of
a line D.R.8.: You say, "Is this paragraph up to the
standard required—if not, treat it as poetry.” What
kind of poetry would you prefer?....M.M.B. (Darling-
hurst): Sorry we can’t oblige you.... The Nondescript:
Though from all the major errors it appears to be
immune,
Still the jingle is a faint one and a little out of tune.
Arkite : Local interest only. And too stiff and stilted
anyway... W.M.M. : Doesn’t matter a cuss, so far as we
can see, whether he signs “ J. Jones, for Brown and Co.”
or “ For Brown and Co., J. Jones.” And we hope no-
body else will ask the question again for 37 years....
Subscriber (Cairns) : All the w’orld over it is cheaper to
send goods over long distances by water than by rail.
On short runs the railway holds its own ; but once the
100-mile limit is passed it begins to lose ground rapidly,
and the longer the distance the more hopeless becomes
railway competition.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Lance M. : Don’t care a straw whether he took the
farm with him or had it sent A.V. : Picture of a hunk
of rock rejected... .J.W.W. : Two awful-looking women.
E. Sheppard : Merely a picture of a man standing
outside a pawnshop. Many "men stand outside pawn-
shops. Apparently they will continue to do so as long as
there are men and pawnshops Cliff Saunders: The
man who had had many trials, but was chiefly
troubled about the convictions, has been doing his sen-
tence in the wastepaper basket for the last 26 years...
R.G., Alf M., T.E.D., W.P.M. : Fired out on general
principles.. ..Dan Cor. : Ditto (with violence),,.. A.S.R.:
Not a glimmer of hope in them G.F.F.: Too technical.
The joke that has to carry a note of explanation in its
tail is too heavily handicapped for this quick age....
H.A.8.: Some humor in the situation ; but not worth
redrawing.. Homo, J. 8.: Too hard-labored J.A.C.,
P.W. : Gags worked to death... .F.F.: Not a ripple in It.
. .. Barker: Can’t be allowed to bark in that par-
ticular key in this paper....G.R.: A fat woman on the
shore isn’t widely different from a fat woman any-
where else. And a fat woman may be almost any-
where. In fact, she may be almost everywhere....
Johnstone : No demand for picture of one man making a
pun to another, especially when the man and the pun
are both small Cherry: (1) The picture ig not much
good. (2) The proverb is bosh, for second thoughts are
not always best. (3) Your ignorance of Soripture is
shameful. You say : “God’s first thought vvgs of man ;
his second of woman.” According to Genesis, the dlno-
saurus and the foxolophodon and the eohippug must have
been before either of them.


%«)1;
hr'lft JMtymJ -'"jjtm an Mmi,
0W mttit thjlu mw* k?lw mU
- j nfc %*jl)
IW
oli ki"
(jprl fie- lift,
kttiitd him
i °Uit hi His in, mm
%at iif&re m Otyory
VoW CWiMft- Ha! kWkaile
n&»6a»et - One oj fer jwfettf;
.WirwMls 1 .■
'icitt'&yhlklr ~ Tt
\lwsi fiillWt).
iJ -IP Wwe. . ,
Wfc r) l -(jo»to» and. Wide- typhmw
ffc political Situation to J?clmir«l 'Vanlio^s
THE DEAR OLD DUTCH.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Have a dash of
Am
B (Trade Ma
Exn-acTof ■
fruifsiHerbs.
m
s&
v
m
Hi
fw
m
&),
iS>
Moderate Drinkers take O.T.
with Whisky, Gin and other
Spirits, to moderate the effects
of the Alcohol. Try O.T. with
Schnapps or Gin.
FINNEY’S
SEMI-READY
SUITS.
You see, it’s this way:
11 Very often you need a suit in a
hurry—you have some function
to attend, or you’re going away,
or for some other reason.
11 You don’t want a ready-made
suit; nor have you time to
order a suit to measure in the
regular way. Still, you want
something tailor-made.
IT The semi-ready system comes to
your help. You write or wire
us —your breast measurement;
inside leg measurement; fore-
arm measurement, and the
kind of material you like.
IT We despatch the suit One Hour
after your order is received.
A grand idea? We should say
so !
Prices start at 42/-
Shall we send you a book of
patterns ?
Finney, Isles & Co.
LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A son of Justice Higgins, of the High
Court, has just taken a degree at Oxford. After
vacation he will continue his study of the law
before returning to Australia to begin his pursuit
of the profits.
ANOTHER INJUSTICE TO MA.
The headquarters of the destroyers Yarra and Parra-
matta will be at Port Phillip. They will, of course, visit
the other States. —Daily Paper.
The suspension of two members of the
Queensland Assembly in one recent evening re-
calls that in the stormy times of 1894, in the same
House, the same thing happened to Charley
McDonald (now Speaker of the House of Reps.)
and Turley (now President of the Senate).
Allison G. O. Pain, musical and dramatic
critic, of Perth (W.A.), died suddenly in that city
on Sunday. A fortnight previously, after having
played at St. George’s Cathedral, he slipped on
the steps and fractured a kneecap. He was a
Cambridge M.A. and 52 years old. He came to
Australia 20 years ago, and worked for some years
on the Sydney press before going west, in 1896.
“ H.H.D.,” about some Melbourne
ancients :
“Lud” (B. 8/9/’10) mentions a Melbourne Morning
Herald Almanac of 1849 that is in the British Museum.
I have an earlier one still—lB47. It was compiled by
J. J. Mouritz, and “ printed at the Herald Office, Little
Oollins-street, by W. Clarke.” The Resident Judge was
the same Hon. W. A’Beckett who ruled two years later.
They paid him pretty well for those times—£lsoo a year,
the same as Latrobe, the Superintendent or Deputy-
Oovernor. Among other functionaries was Robert
McCord, “ Superintendent of the Treadmill ” ; but that
Superintendent only got 3s. 6d. per diem. The Chief
Constable, William Johnstone Sugden, had to manage on
£l2O a year, though there may have been pickings in
those days too.
Death has retired Frederick Race Godfrey,
one of the best-known of Melbourne men, at 81.
Landing in Victoria in 1847, he early indulged in
pastoral pursuits ; but subsequently took to
finance and church government, interspersed
with politics. As politician he lasted for three
years in the middle ’7o’s, representing East
Bourke in the Vic. Assembly. As a Melbourne
Anglican he was a better stayer, and filled almost
every position that a layman can hold. In finance
the best thing he did was to popularise the
trustee co.—the concern which nowadays so
largely takes the placeof the muddling old person
who used to look after his deceased friend’s affairs
in spare moments, and very frequently made a
horrible mess of the business.
One-time Sydney city organist Arthur
Mason, he of the golden head and Wagnerian
prepossessions, who forsook the keyboard for the
pen a couple of years ago, in order to represent the
S. M. Herald in London, is returning to Aus-
tralia shortly to write leaders and other romantic
literature for the Hunter-street organ. Mason’s
entry into journalism was the result of some
descriptive articles he wrote for the paper during
a pleasure tour of Europe. Mason’s place in
London is being taken by Charles E. W. Bean,
the young journalist who made a hit with his
“specials” (afterwards collected in book form,
“ With the Flagship in the South”), descriptive of
the Pah’f’l’s visit to Auckland to meet the Ameri-
can Fleet in August, 1908.
George Jenkins, prattling of his 45 years’
experience at the Vic. Parliament House, stated
that the most “ exciting ” scene in his recollection
was provided by Tom Bent and Bryan O’Loghlen
when Graham Berry, as Premier, was “carving
out the Constitution ” for the State. Bent, the
brawling Tory, was whip for the Opposition;
and, finding that one of the votes promised to his
side had been seduced (by liquor) to the Govern-
ment side, the rampageous market-gardener was
about to fight O’Loghlen on the floor of the House,
when the august Assembly crowded in and pre-
vented bloodshed. It was the same Bent who
once chased a man down Bourke-street in his shirt
sleeves, when he was Minister of Railways,
because the fatuous citizen had criticised his
method of log-rolling. A list of the exciting
things that the bull-necked Bent did would fill a
pamphlet.
Colonel A. J. Godley, Assistant-Adju-
tant General, Aldershot (Eng.), who has been
appointed Commandant of the Maoriland forces,
will be the last boss-swaddy imported by the
Loanly Isles for some time, if a hint given by
I(J U Ward had the breath of truth in it. The
next man to get the job will probably be Colonel
Davies, a Maorilander, who was recently ap-
pointed to the command of an infantry brigade
at Aldershot for four years. Davies was
once a surveyor at Taranaki. He joined the
Hawera Mounted Rifles as a ranker, and passed
up to captain. Then came the war in S’Africa,
and Davies served in five contingents, command-
ing the 3rd, 4th and Bth. After that, Davies took
to soldiering for his daily bag of flour, corned beef
and accompanying trifles. In 1901 he was given
the command of the Auckland district, and five
years later he was Inspector-General, with the
rank of Colonel, and third member of the Council
of Defence.
One of Premier Wade’s most painful re-
collections of the last electioneering campaign
surrounds a meeting he held in Singleton. It was
an important occasion, and Gregory, the Little
Australian, was gratified to face a full house.
But Gregory didn’t know that amongst the
audience were about 50 enthusiastic scoffers, who
had conceived what he would call a “diabolic”
scheme for breaking up the meeting. The 50
arrived early, and spread themselves at intervals
about the front rows. When Wade got well into
his first stride, two men in the most prominent
seats began to fidget and yawn, and finally upended
themselves and strolled out. A few minutes later
a man on the other side, with a “ can’t-stand-any-
more-of-this ” expression on his face, rose and
followed suit. Wade tried to ignore the proceed-
ing, but two more removed themselves, and
every few minutes twos and threes reached
for their hats and departed, until the whole
50 were on the other side of the door. Then
he became so unstrung that he lost the thread of
his remarks and fizzled out about the third round.
The Daniel Cooper whose Waterloo and
other Sydney suburban lands are so much talked
about in connection with the Federal Land Tax,
is not descended from Sydney’s first Daniel
Cooper, but from that immigrant's brother
Thomas. Daniel and Thomas left Lancashire as
lads, and set up together in Sydney as second-
hand dealers. Daniel, the elder, was the sharper
of the two. He could make a profit out of any
old thing, and he took the initiative in most new
ventures. Dying, however, without an heir, he
transferred most of his goods to nephew Daniel,
the son of Thomas. That nephew simply flour-
ished on unearned, increments, blossomed into a
politician and by a donation of £50,000 to a war-
fund, secured royal notice. The yarn was that he
was made a baronet for his services in the N.S.W.
Parliament, but it was really because he threw
some of his unearned increment where it would
make the most splash. Then came Daniel
Cooper third, the grandnephew of the heirless
first Daniel, and grandson of the comparatively
dull Thomas ; and, on the strength of the N.S.W.
unearned increments, that Daniel went to school
with Rosebery, Churchill, Tweedmouth and
others, married a sister-in-law of the Earl of Stair,
and plunged on the turf. The line still goes on,
but the prospect of losing a fraction of the
unearned increment fills it with dismay.
The number of retired bishops in England
is one less by the death of Nathaniel Dawes, at
the age of 67 years. He was Coadjutor-Bishop
of Brisbane from 1889 to 1892, and thereafter
wore his gaiters at Rockhampton, in the same
State, till failing health drove him to seek a less
strenuous job in the vineyard.
FIRED OUT.
DISREPUTABLE PARTY: “He mushta thought I
was Judkins in disguise."
Judge Chomley, the •senior iOSf the Vic-
torian County Courts Bench, has been granted 12
.months’ leave of absence on full ipay, ithe
-chances are lie will .never find tor the plaintiff any
more, or extend the King’s hospitality to the
stranger within his spiked gates. The ancient
entered the public service in 1853, but has been
wearing the Ihorse’slfly-whisk for 47 years.
Frank Wilson, wlho has succeeded the
lethargic Moore as [Premier of Westralia, hails
from Sunderland ((Kng.j, where he was born in
1859. He originally .eame to Queensland, but
later sprang iup in .the western State as manager
of the Canning Timber (Co. In 1897 he entered
the Perth Assembly., .and has been Minister of
Mines and Railways, and Agriculture, and Edu-
cation, and Public Works, under different and
indifferent Premiers, and lately has been Newton
Moore’s Treasurer. Wilson, who is regarded as
fairly able and experienced, is a speaker quite
devoid of rhetorical loveliness.
Of all the ancient Governors and Acting-
Governors of N. S. Wales, Grose was about the
most profligate, so far as the public estate was
concerned. He scattered Sydney and suburbs
among his favorites in 100-acre blocks. John
Palmer received 100 acres of what is now Woolloo-
mooloo ; Colonel Johnstone received what is now
called Annandale; Rev. Richard Johnson got his
lot between Parramatta and Cook’s River ; John
Harris got 100 acres at Parramatta; John Mac-
arthur got Elizabeth Farm; and Lay cock 80
acres at Parsley Bay, or what is now Vaucluse.
Nearly all these and many others received addi-
tional grants later; but those mentioned were
gifts made by one wave of Grose’s pen, in one
wild burst of exaltation, and without the public
getting one copper in return.
The Ronald-Harper case recalls something
that happened to the late John Colton when he
was Premier of S. Aus. A wag told Colton a
humorous but innocent story. Next day the two
met among mutual friends, when the knight, the
best of good Wesleyans, broke out: “Mr. Wag,
I can’t get that story of yours out of my head.
Last night I told it to some ladies, and you never
heard such laughter. They want to be introduced
to you.” Wag was filled with assumed consterna-
tion. “ And you told that story to women, and
mentioned my name with it ! ” “Of course I
did,” said Colton, amid questioning looks from
the crowd. “Let us have it, Wag,” was the
general request, and Wag reeled out an atro-
ciously spicy yarn, while Colton spluttered out
denials, and the others told the good man that he
ought to be ashamed of himself —at his time of
life, too.
“ Vic *’ drops in promiscuously on various
people:—
Outside the Other-Worldly altogether there is matter
in an article by Annie Bright in the Harbinger of Light
on Book Arcadian Cole. The writer is 'Jh§ widow of
Charles Bright, a brilliant Melbourne journalist. He
would rank with Aspinall as a talker, and was the star of
the Yorick Club. The Argus employed him to write
down spiritualism, but he got converted. Afterwards
he went into insurance work, then broke out into lectures
on the Uncanny. His first wife was sister of Mrs. J. G.
Knight, and Knight shared with Kerr in the design of the
Victorian Parliament House. The sisters had a cele-
brated brother. However, to King Cole. Up to middle
life he was sneered at by business men as an un-
practical visionary. Yet he whips most of them even
in biz, and has far higher claims in other ways.
Born in Woodstock, Kent, in 1832, he did not get into
the proper hang of commercialism until 1866. First, he
started a little second-hand bookshop in the Eastern, or
IPaddy’s, Market; next, he leased the whole Market, and
(raised the rant roll from £l5OO to £6OOO. His first Book
Arcade was a bit lower down Bourke-street. Boys
served there in red Garibaldi shirts. Next, he took his
present premises, aforetime the Spanish Restaurant.
This stand he has developed in the course of years, so
that now he goes right bang across to the Collins-street
Block. Talmage said the two greatest Australian won-
ders were Sydney Harbor and Cole’s; and Sala and
Froude gave equivalent testimony. Yet the place has
been immensely developed since, and the stock of books
runs to I,3oo,ooo—with other important lines of business
to bopt.
Maryborough (Vic.) has lost sight of the
last of the Simsons, who gave their name to the
district at the start of things—Simson’s Ranges.
The first of the family was David, the father of
David Dalgety and John Coghill. David the
elder came from Monaro (N.S, W.) in the early
’4o’s, and, settling north of Garisbrook, grabbed
nnrl r»11 orl TV* IID
acre after acre, and piled mile
upon mile, until, with the help
of two brothers, the whole
country had the Simson brand.
Then trouble began to fall.
Brother John was drowned while
pluckily trying to save some em-
ployees in a flood. Old David
died, too, and the sons had their
fling. It was about the most
lavish fling Victoria ever saw.
In a spare moment J. C. fled
to Europe, and came back mar-
ried to a Bavarian countess, or
something such. She was thrown
from a buggy, dashing home
from a race-meeting, and was
killed. The huge property had
just about gone by this time;
but, almost up to the last, J. C.
had a lavish habit of scattering
handfuls of silver from the pub
balcony when he came into the
township—the township the Sim-
sons had made. David the
younger died about three years
ago; he had been running a
little labor agency in Melbourne.
As for J. C., he just faded away
from his old haunts ; and. if he
should happen to be dead, may
the grass grow green on his
grave.
Although J. C. Watson
would not submit himself for
selection, he is taking a vigorous
part in the current N. S. Wales
electoral fight. Not being a
candidate, he is devoting his
energy to a daily sheet, the
Vanguard, which refutes each
evening the fallacies published
each morning. This is putting
ginger into the fight, and the
“Liberals” are so pleased at his “in-
terference” that the same people who
lately called the exPrime Minister a
statesman, and regretted that the State party
wasn’t like him. are now very busy calling him
a liar and other unpleasant ‘iiings.
Archpriest Sheehy, of Sydney, who died
last week, aged 83, was the last but one of the
R.C. clergy in receipt of the ecclesiastical pen-
sion. He was ordained a priest by Bishop
Davis, who was supposed to be Bishop of Mait-
land, though he was never in that diocese. Dr.
Sheehy was nominated as Assistant-Bishop to
Archbishop Polding, but refused consecration,
though his name is on the roll of bishops at the
Vatican. The Archpriest came to Sydney with
his parents in 1838, and was schooled at old St.
Mary’s, of which he afterwards became the head.
George Gidley King, superintendent of
the Peel River Co.’s vast property at Tamworth
(N.S.W.) and great grandson of Botany Bay’s
third Governor, died a few days back, aged some-
thing over 00. George Gidley bad followed
Philip Gidley at Peel River. Parry, the Arctic
explorer, was the first superintendent, and the
man who engineered the colossal grab. The
Australian Agricultural Co., which was formed
in 1825 with the usual snuffle about looking after
the aborigines and promoting civilisation, got the
right from the English Government to select a
million acres in Australia. The million acres it
did select were along the coast near Newcastle ;
but some years afterwards, better land having
been found inland, Parry and his influential
friends worked the oracle with the Colonial Office,
and got 600,000 acres of the old selection ex-
changed for the same area on the Peel River and
the Liverpool Plains. The awful transaction
completed, the 313,298 acres of Peel River land
were passed over to a new co. ; and it was for
about a third of this area that N. S. Wales last
year had to pay the cormorant co. a cool half
million pounds.
TEMPTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have known what it is to be tempted.— Rev. Henry
Worrall.
Did she come with her brightness and badness—
Was she lovely as Helen, and fair ;
Did his blood boil in moments of madness
As he toyed with her exquisite hair?
Was she bad like the nymphs of Astarte,
Were her arms filled with rapture and bliss ;
Was there fire in the mouth of that party —
Did she sting half to death with each kiss ?
Did she come like a laughing Delilah—
Was there meaning intense in her smile ;
Did he leap glad and free on his tile, or
Did he flee from her warmness and guile ?
Did she come with proposals immoral,
Or invite to delicious repose ;
Were her arms clasped around Brother Worrall ?
Henry knows 1
Did he fall like a man that is human—
Was he weak, was he stern, was he strong ;
Was he lured unto sin by the Woman,
Did he say: “ Sister, dear, this is wrong ” ?
Did he fall on his knees and beseech her—
Were her lips a temptation too great;
Did she swoon in the arms of the preacher,
Did he say “ Let the old gospel wait ”?
Was she tall, was she short, was she naughty—
Did she sit on our dear brother’s knee ;
Was she old, was she young, was she forty—
Was she childlike or sweet twenty-three?
Did her eyes shine like meteors in Heaven,
Was her hair butter-yellow or red?
Did he stay till the clock echoed seven
Ere he fled ?
Where the old pulpiteers sit together,
Shall we hear, whilst they murmur and rail,
How he sank to the depths that were nether,
And beheld old Beelzebub’s tail?
Will he tell of the siren who sought him,
How she came with her lips and her hair ;
How she chased—how she captured and caught him.
How he dodged in the dark from her lair?
Will he picture her brightness and badness—
Dear Delilah, so fragrant to woo ;
And the old pulpiteers full of sadness,
Will they grieve they were not tempted, too?
Jealous eyes wildly glare at the sinner,
And the teeth of True Sanctity gnash
As they dream of that heavenly winner
With his mash !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVY.


ms*.
mi
VN.
m
M-
''>h\%.
; \M|V
UOj
Is
m
m
93 £
4.s£
,H' •
«
•&F
m
m
Hi
m
S- H
\ I \
8 c 1
■n
m
II
■f •.
tttti
jwTr/,
J ,A .
Pi
mas
HI
K\
4 • • * ,fI X ! jKSS®7
B
n
©*>.\
II
|2**"
i
i
V 4sh<sS«s
% /
mm
ippi | %iwa
0 i#
/mmlimlofwmM u
/MSjßplliMWi: M’ M ; II /If
Ilf mti
sSfeS^
*»«*■
I i
•5 /
* V
llliy/
P/
P
ml III!
whlum
pMWii >
Wiim
mt
<whh
itffl
.••.<• vf
. y; .1 . /t
ifiiife 1
;g«!l|I
1
ik
m
/.<
•37-
«*«
YirtS
$W\ v \ 1
S^m l - V'i I
KS
7?t
*£?
■
•V ■:
{»
is ’i
$B*K- * ft
K
v,y\
I ~
S»VSi
;il
Hi
ii
#■
IBM
m
3$
; W/Mf •
.r
kwoo^\
fti)
l .t S
Mi
I
;v7S
iiim.
Ii ill®
11
u rt
S&'SS
', \
■VI
ww
WM
JjW.V.v
!‘fi
grtS
'ffi
-K®»
: > S# \I
lif'lvll v 7
45lfeir 7
i|!i«i
• ?4 •
■v! • ls‘& iW St-
/infer
THE AUSTRAL TWO-GARMEHT SUIT.
We have evolved something 1 special in “ The Austral Two
Garment Suit” which will strongly appeal to those who desire
a smart, fashionably-cut suit combined with easy fitting, so
requisite for Spring and Summer wear, either for the busy man
or the “ week-ender.”
Messrs. Vicars have manufactured for us some special
Royal Club Flannels in blue and grey, on the lines made so
popular by Army and Navy men for easy “ mufti.” We quote
755. hand made, and 555. machine made. If you cannot call,
send for self-measurement form and patterns.
GOWING BROS.,
Pioneer Distributors Australian Goods,
486, 488, 490 George Street, and
7,9, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
P.S. —Carriage paid throughout Australia.
THE AUSTRAL TWO-GARMENT” SUIT.


“National” Gas Engines and Suction Plants
Known as the “ Royal ” Gold Medal Engines and Plants, beat all comers
m England after exhaustive trials.
EXCELLENT RESULTS FROM EITHER COKE OR CHARCOAL.
SOLE AGENTS, with experts from the English Works
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., 2 Circular Quay East, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
MT “NO WITH ANY COMBINER
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Maoriland State Bank—Advances to
Workers Department:—
Advances
Mar., Outstanding. Loss. Deficit.
1907 .. £5,490 £434 £434
1908 .. 203,143 228 662
Profit. Reserves.
1909 .. 482,436 3757 3095
£1424 Loan Expenses written off.. 1671
1910 .. 518.341 1396 3067
This business was established by the Government Ad-
vances to Workers Act of 1906. Its object is to enable
workers to become owners of their homes. Loans may
be made up to £450, though it doesn’t follow that a man
may not add to that a bit of his own. The amount
actually advanced as at March 31 last was £818,341 ; the
net amount authorised as at that date was £1,032,325,
divided among 4105 people. In volume the year’s tran-
sactions were quite satisfactory ; but the profit wasn’t
good enough. The shrinkage, when compared with the
previous year, isn’t explained ; but it appears to be
simply a case of the Department having been obliged to
pay more for the money it borrowed, although debarred
from charging any more for the money it lent. Even if
the whole £1396 profit could have been added to reserves,
instead of being counterbalanced by a loss on a loan flota-
tion, it would not tiave been enough. A great many of
the advances —no doubt most of them—are for terms of
30 years up to 36£ years ; and, as the superintendent
points out, there are many places which are liable
to snuff out long before 36J years have passed. When
that happens the Department will have to do a lot of
writing down, and at the present rate it won’t have the
reserves to draw upon to wipe out the losses. The ex-
penses are very modest; so the whole explanation of the
poor progress is that the Department set out to do more
than it can afford to do. When it began, money was
cheap : it is dearer now—in Maoriland, at any rate—and
it will probably be a good deal dearer still. At present it
can’t be said definitely that the terms should be altered ;
but a keen eye will have to be cast on the figures of the
current year, and if they are no better than those of the
past year the trouble will have to be faced.
* * * *
Wright, Heaton and Co. (Sydney), carriers
and suppliers of station goods;—
Writ- To
Dividends ten Re- Re-
Profits. and Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
jg £ £ £ £
July 1903 f 5610 10 p.c. = 3500 2110) oa koq
3 ’ Ud " (Unexplained additions .. 8600/ 28 ’° 23
Jan., 1904.. 2840 10 p.c.= 3500 27,863
July, 1904.. 2911 10 ~ ~3500 13,000 -- 14,274
Jan., 1905.. 5052 71 „,, 2626 2427 16,701
July, 1905.. 6254 7£ „ ~2625 3629 20,330
Jail., 1906.. 6593 7J„ ~ 2625 3968 24,298
July, 1906.. 6311 10 „ ~3500 2811 27,109
Jan., 1907.. 6275 10 „ ~3500 2775 29,884
July, 1907.. 7955 10 ~ ~ 3500 4455 34,339
Jan., 1908. 8826 10 „ ~ 3500 5326 39,665
July, 1908.. 8054 10 ~ ~3500 4,000 554 40,219
Jan., 1909.. 7167 10 „ ~ 3500 5,000 ’38,886
July, 1909.. 7056 10 „ ~3500 4,500 37,942
Jan., 1910.. 7415 10 ~ ~ 3500 3,000 915 38,857
July, 1910.. 7252 10 „ ~ 3500 3,000 752 39 609
This co. has been having a wonderfully good time. Six
months ago it was remarked here that for the previous
half-dozen terms the profits had been £4245 per half-year
in excess of the 10 per cent, div., or enough to pay
another 12J per cent. The directors have now considered
the situation, and decided to pay out a bit more, not,
however, by increasing the rate of dividend, but by
issuing another £lO,OOO of capital, to be paid up out of
the reserves. That means that each present holder of
seven shares will get a free share. The shares are £2 10s.
fully paid ; present capital, £70,000; capital after the
watering-pot has been used, £BO,OOO.
Wright-Heaton’s was at one time purely a
carrying and produce-dealing firm, pursuing business in
N. S. Wales, Queensland and Victoria. In the last-named
State it trades as the McCulloch Carrying Co., having
secured or provided the whole £25,000 of capital in that
concern. Recently—about four years ago—it sold out
of Queensland, and put the money and a good deal
besides into station supplies, and much attention has
lately been given to that branch of the business. Stocks
amount to £34,860, of which £24,729 represents general
merchandise, and the balance is produce. Other de-
tails and their movements are shown next: —
July, ’OO. Jan., ’lO. July, ’lO.
Liabilities—General .. £34,276 £27,334 £29,983
Assets—
Gash .. .. 7,421 15,011 10,696
Premises, plant,
etc 15,378 15,245 16,052
Stock .. „ 8,117 29,566 34,860
Book debts .. 48,902 66,119 58,433
McCulloch Co. .. 15,050 25,000 25,000
In 10 years the assets have been increased by £50,175,
and the liabilities have been reduced by £4293, making- a
total improvement of £54,468 in theco.’s position as dis-
closed by the published accounts. Some of that—£33,o3o
to be precise—was used up in 1901-2-3 in paying up capital.
In the first table it will be noticed that large amounts
have been written off. Some of this has been transferred
to a contingency fund and swept out of the balance-
sheet altogether. Apparently it has been used to reduce
the book-value of the large amount shown as book debts.
The rest of it has been used to write down plant. The
contingency fund is apparently a sort of debt insurance ;
and whether it will be called for or not depends largely
upon the sort of seasons that are ahead. In 1901-2-3, when
some of the shares were being paid up for the shareholders
—under special agreement— various transfers of this con-
tingency fund were made to profit and loss; and it may
be that the directors could shake a bit out of a long
stocking now if they wanted to. But they had better
leave it there—it may be wanted presently. Nothing is
more certain than that some of the troubles of the earlv
’9o’s will be repeated in various parts of Australia
owing to the excessive prices which have lately been paid
for land. The men who have had, or will have, three or
four rattling good seasons to help them wipe out some of
the debt may be all right; but the last men in will have
a bad time of it.
* * * *
Walkers, Ltd., engine-builders, etc. (Mary-
borough, Q.): —
Dividends and Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves
1899 .. £2,003 5 p.c. = £3344 £4 722
1900 .. 4,126 5 „ „ 3344 5’514
1901 .. 6,113 5,, ~ 3363 5’264
1902 .. 1,629 Nil £2OOO 7’,893
1903 .. 1,485 Nil 9 37g
1904 .. 1,523 Nil lo’goi
1905 .. 1,428 Nil 4600 7’, 729
1906 .. 2,182 Nil 6500 3 411
1907 .. 2,593 Nil 2500 3 504
1908 .. 3,288 3 p.c. = 2026 2000 2 766
1909 .. 7,248 5 „ „ 3376 2500 4,138
1910 .. 11,144 7 „ ~ 4726 3000 7,556
Of that last 7 per cent. 1 per cent, really belongs to the
previous year, for “ the value of the contracts in progress
as at June 30,1909, has been found to have been under-esti-
mated, and is sufficient to allow of an additional 1 per cent,
to be paid.” For the same reason, part of the profit shown
for the past year evidently belongs to the previous year.
And some of the other profit isn’t as true profit as it
might be. The total is made up in this fashion :
True profit, £5144 ; added to Insurance Reserve, £3000;
depreciation account, £3OOO. An insurance reserve is
always a doubtful item : it is an accumulation of revenue
to cover risks, and whether the money will be called for
or will revert to the co. only the future can tell. For a
good many years while working under the Queensland
State tariff the co. did moderately well. Then that tariff
disappeared, and the first Yes-No Commonwealth tariff
arrived; and the table shows what happened. Also, the
table at least suggests that the Lyne tariff saved the
works from ruin a couple of years ago. In 1905 the gross
profit had got down to £1428, while the wear and
tear on the machinery was probably three times as
great, so that it was only a matter of time
when the whole of the capital represented by plant,
etc., would be consumed. Even with the help of the
Lyne tariff the last couple of years wouldn’t have shown
such good results but for the remarkable expansion of
Queensland. Much railway-building has been done, and
new stock has been called for ; and it can at least be said
of Queensland that of all the States it takes the most
pride in giving work to its own industries, where-
fore good solid engine-building contracts have gone
the way of Walkers. Financially the co. is in an
easy position. Its liabilities total £13,382, and its book
debts, cash balances, and other liquid assets, including
the value of work done on contracts, amount to £44,740.
This position is largely due to the co.’s very prudent
policy of dropping divs. when they were not honestly
earned. To a great extent the liquid balance is an accu-
mulation of profits written off to cover depreciation *
and, given assurance of effective Protection, the money
will, no doubt, be put back into plant to the great benefit
of Australian workmen and Australian manufactures.
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £5516 6 p.c. =£6ooo £25,245
June, 1904.. 7438 6 „ „ 6000 £1438 29,683
Dec., 1904.. 5685 {\ ” ’’ s»} 435 ‘ 30,118
June, 1905.. 6102 « - - «00 J. g 52 30 970
Dec., 1905.. 5879‘ 6 ” 6000 ’ - 30,849
June, 1906.. 5382 6 ~ ~ 6000 30,231
Dec., 1906.. 9650 6 ~ ~ 6000 3650 33,881
June, 1907.. 9375 6 ~ ~ 6000 3375 37,256
Dec., 1907.. 7774 6 ~ ~ 6000 1774 39,030
June, 1908.. 9710 6 ~ ~ 6000 3710 42,740
Dec., 1908.. 8326 6 ~ ~ 6000 2326 45,066
June, 1909.. 7327 6 „ „ 6000 1327 46,393
Dec., 1909.. 7200 6 ~ ~ 6000 1200 47,593
June, 1910.. 7542 6 „ „ 6000 1542 49,135
This co. was registered in its present shape in 1899, and
in only three of the 22 half-years of its life has the
ordinary dividend got as low as 5 per cent. On the
other hand, it hasn’t once gone beyond 6 per cent.
There are 150,000 ordinaries and 50,000 preferences, all
fully paid to £l, and that amount of ordinary
capital means very fine protection for the pre-
ferences. Some of the gilt is taken off the
preferences’ gingerbread, though, by the existence
of £148,300 of debentures ; and they, of course, come in
first. No whale’s innards were ever darker than those
of this co. Never does it hint at the amount written off
against depreciation ; and whether it is writing off too
much and therefore stuffing away some profits, or
whether it is writing off too little and therefore really
earning less than it says, is beyond the powers of this
paper to say. It doesn’t, however, look like a co. which
does desperate or reckless things, and it hasn’t got that
sort of Board. At the best, the accounts are probably
only intended to give a general indication of the trend of
business; and looking at it in that way a hint seems to
be given by the substantial additions to reserves that the
past few years have been very good, and that the divi-
dend has been much more easily earned than it was a
while ago.
* * * *
The Federal Palace Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne):
Written To Re- Re-
July, Loss. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £125 Nil £i 436
Profit.
1900.. 2002 10J p.c. =£1458 £544 1 980
1901 .. 3923 21* „ „ 2920 - 1003 21983
1902 .. 1700 Nil _ 1700 4,683
1903 .. 673 Nil - 673 51356
1904 .. 1753 Nil 1753 7 i O 9
1905 .. 1221 Nil 1221 8,330
1906 .. 1816 Nil _ 1816 10,146
1907.. 2458 lOJp.c. = 1465 993 11,139
1908 .. 2411 lOf „ „ 1465 £8506 3,579
1909.. 3040 10J „ „ 1465 1000 575 4,154
1910.. 3963 14J „ „ 1953 1000 1010 5,164
Somehow the people who gummed their faith to the tea-
cup got more intoxicated than anybody else during the
Melbourne boom in land and etceteras. In this
case the freehold premises were valued at £151,082
during the Great Drunk ; and when only the head-
ache was left in the morning, a revaluation put
the premises down at £65,000. Unfortunately for
the co., it had a mortgage of £68,000, or more than the
property was said to be worth ; but besides the capital
there was a small amount of reserves, and this saved the
situation so far that the co. didn’t have to just walk out.
From £123,586 the capital had, however, to be written
down to 25., with Is. callable; and thereafter ljd. was
got in. The paid capital stands now at £13,493.
Naturally, the mortgagee wanted his little lot attended to
also ; so the directors have had to go slow in the matter of
dividends until quite lately. Even now, though 14£ per
cent, looks magnificent, it is less than l| per cent, on the
old, original capital. In 10 years the face of things has
been beauty-parlored as follows :
1900. 1910.
Liabilities .. .. £60,195 £48,311
Liquid assets .. 1,714 2,459
Deficit ~ .. £58,481 £45,852
That is an improvement of £12,629 in the 10 years. But
it doesn’t necessarily mean that net profits have been
that much in excess of dividends and other outgoings,
for there may have been some wear and tear and depre-
ciation of the premises. To some extent, though, this
has been counterbalanced by an addition of premises and
plant where the F.P.H. Go. washes its dirty linen, and
upon this purchase £1398 has been spent. The debt is
still, of course, very heavy ; but every little bit wiped off
makes it a little bit easier to wipe off the rest. The last
10 years’ effort alone has lifted about £4OO per annum off
the burden of interest.
*;.#**
The N.S.W. Fruit Exchange Co-operative
Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1901.. £1564 10 per cent. =£2so £1314 £6,395
1902.. 724 10 „ ~ 250 474 6,869
1903.. 902 10 ~ „ 250 652 7 521
1904.. 1027 10 „ „ 406 621 s! 142
1905.. 1386 10 ~ ~ 500 886 9 028
1906.. 1397 10 „ „ 500 897 9,925
1907.. 1498 10 „ ~ 500 998 10,923
1908.. 1551 10 „ „ 500 1051 11,974
1909.. 1778 12 b „ „ 625 1153 13,127
1910.. 1908 12 b ~ ~ 625 1283 14,410
About six years ago this co. provided itself with new
freehold premises at a cost of £29,680, and nothing has
since been written off them to cover the depreciation,
which must be pretty heavy. Repairs, certainly, have
been charged up with working expenses; but they
naturally haven’t been as much as they will be later on.
Though it has been, and still is, a remarkably prosper-
ous concern, the circumstances have been in favor of
big figures during the past few years. On the other
hand the rapid accumulation of profits has saved, and
will go on saving, the co. a good deal of interest. This
shows the position in that respect:—
1905. 1910.
Debentures and other debt £15,182 £11,500
Liquid assets 9 1,833
Excess of liabilities .. £15,173 £9,667
The municipal markets haven’t so far affected the
revenue: rents in 1908-9 were £3885 and in 1909-10
£4oB6. It will be a marvel, though, if this lasts, and if
the co. can go on making such huge profits in competi-
tion with a public concern which will presumably be
satisfied if it makes a shade over interest on the borrowed
capital. This co.’s capital is only £5OOO, and on that
alone (disregarding reserves) the profit last year was at
the rate of over 38 per cent.
* * * *
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria) :
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1904.. £2461 12 p.c. =£2520 £164 £18,418
Dec., 1904.. 3142 12 „ „ 2520 £622 19,040
June, 1905.. 2537 12 ~ ~ 2520 17 19,067
Dec., 1905.. 2710 12 „ ~ 2520 200 19,047
June, 1906.. 2563 12 ~ „ 2520 112 18,978
Dec., 1906.. 3271 12 „ „ 2520 761 19,729
June, 1907.. 2534 12 ~ ~ 2520 14 19,743
Dec., 1907.. 2576 12 ~ ~ 2520 200 19,599
June, 1908.. 2609 12 ~ ~ 2520 210 19,478
Dec., 1908.. 2424 12 ~ „ 2520 19,382
June, 1909.. 2752 12 ~ „ 2520 192 40 19,422
Dec., 1909.. 2523 12 ~ ~ 2520 • 251 19,174
June, 1910. 2636 12 „ ~ 2520 50 66 19,240
Of the reserves mentioned above £13,682 is described ns
“accumulated profits invested in the assets of the co.,
renewals of works, contingent fund, and wear and tear
account.” This is absurdly' vague. It seems to mean
that a part of this alleged reserve is invested in renewals
of works ; and if those works were paid for out of capital,
then the money' spent on their renewal is not reserve at
all, but simply replaced capital. A clearer view can be
got this way’:—
June, ’O5. June, TO.
Liquid assets .. ..£10,050 £7169
Liabilities .. .. 186 1497
Surplus .. £9,864 £5672
As against this shrinkage there has been a small addition
to the fixed assets—plant, meters, fittings, etc. ; but
there has been no increase in the revenue produced by
these goods. Income from gas sales in the first half of
1905 was £5452 ; in the past half-year it was only £5397.
It is quite obvious that the 12 per cent, dividend is barely-
earned ; it is possible, in fact, that the co. is not doing as
much even as that.
* * * *
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vie.): —
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Jan., 1904.. £4554 14 per cent. =£4725 £64,507
July, 1904.. 5012 14 „ ~ 4725 £287 64,794
Jan., 1905.. 4438 14 ~ ~ 4725 64,507
July, 1905.. 4800 12 ~ „ 4050 750 65,257
Jan., 1906.. 4455 12 „ ~ 4050 405 65,662
July, 1906.. 4112 12 „ „ 4050 62 65,724
Jan., 1907.. 4376 12 „ ~ 4050 326 66,050
July, 1907.. 3971 12 ~ ~ 4050 65,971
Jan., 1908.. 3680 12 ~ ~ 4050 65,601
July, 1908.. 3413 10 „ ~ 3375 .38 65,639
Jan., 1909.. 4019 10 „ ~ 3375 644 66,283
July, 1909.. 2319 10 „ „ 3375 65,227
Jan., 1910.. 4425 10 „ „ 3375 1050 66,277
July, 1910.. 3304 10 „ „ 3375 66,206
In the foregoing table profits are stated net, after deduc-
tions on account of wear and tear. For the past half-
year, for instance, £l4Ol was added to the wear and tear
reserve, and £872 was paid out for repairs, renewals, etc.,
while another £l4OO is now written off for depreciation.
The half-year can be viewed this way .-—Working profit,
£5407 ; interest, £360 ; total, £5767. Less spent on re-
pairs, renewals, etc., £873 ; depreciation, £l4OO ; income-
tax, £l9O. Balance, net profit, £3304. Trading profit
has moved this way in January-July half-years
1905 .. .. £5519 I 1908 .. .. £5348
1906 .. .. 5521 1909 .. .. 5755
1907 .. .. 5623 | 1910 .. .. 5407
The capital is £67,500 ; so the reserves, in proportion to
that amount, are very substantial. Yet, after paying divid-
end and keeping up the works, the co. has not lately been
able to put much by :
1903. 1910.
Liquid assets .. £20,966 £22,895
Liabilities .. .. 710 895
Surplus .. .. £20,256 £22,000
The co. has electrical competition, and probably that has
stimulated the reduction in the price of gas just an-
nounced. If it does not increase the sales, it looks very-
much as though the co. may have some difficulty in main-
taining even the reduced 10 per cent. div.
» * * *
‘ The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
June, 1903.. £1328 4 p.c. = £lO5O £278 £6107
Dec., 1903.. 1584 4 „ ~ 1050 ■ 534 6641
June, 1904.. 1403 4 ~ „ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904.. 1655 4 „ „ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905.. 1315 4 ~ „ 1050 £5OO 7364
Dec., 1905.. 1147 4 „ „ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906.. 1134 4 „ „ 1050 84 7545
Dec., 1906.. 1550 4 „ ~ 1050 500 8045
June, 1907.. 1143 4 ~ ~ 1050 309 7829
Dec., 1907.. 1743 4 „ ~ 1050 800 7722
June, 1908.. 1590 4 „ ~ 1050 200 8062
Dec., 1908.. 1561 4 „ ~ 1050 250 261 8323
June, 1909.. 1709 4 „ ~ 1050 200 519 8842
Dec., 1909.. 1520 4 „ ~ 1062 200 258 9100
June, 1910.. 1318 4 „ „ 1062 300 9056
This co. has had the misfortune to bump against a cheap
municipal electric-supply scheme ; and things are made
worse for the shareholders by the existence of a deben-
ture debt of over £35,000, carrying apparently 5 per cent,
interest. (The share capital is £50,000.) Between these
two the co. can just manage to pay a 4 per cent. div.
That there isn’t much to spare is shown by this
comparison :
June, 1905. June, 1910.
Liabilities .. .. £38,085 £38,240
Liquid assets .. 4,979 5,649
Deficit £33,106 £32,591
That is a gain of only £515 in five years after paying the
div., keeping up the plant and making such small exten-
sions as have been carried out. That the extensions don’t
amount to much seems pretty certain from the fact that
the gas revenue has only moved from £5201 to £5645, and
the gas manufactured from 18,417,700 ft. to 19,236,400 ft.
For once in a way, the light and power consumer seems
to have a box-seat at Launceston.
* * * *
Williamstown Gas Go. (Vic.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1903.. 1041 7b p.c. = 937 100 4 5,935
June, 1904.. 1237 8 „ ~1000 150 87 6,022
Dec., 1904.. 1252 8 „ ~ 1000 170 82 6,104
June, 1905.. 1321 8 „ ~ 1000 250 71 6,175
Dec., 1905.. 1357 9 „ „ 1125 230 2 6,177
June, 1906.. 1519 9 ~ ~1125 250 144 6,321
Dec., 1906.. 1787 9 „ „ 1125 350 312 6,633
June, 1907.. 1653 9 ~ ~ 1125 250 278 6,911
Dec., 1907.. 1894 10 „ ~ 1250 350 294 7,205
June, 1908.. 1860 10 ~ ~1250 350 260 7,465
Dec., 1908.. 1923 10 „ ~ 1250 250 423 7,888
June, 1909.. 2213 10 „ ~1250 963 8,851
Dec., 1909.. 2152 10 „ „ 1250 902 9,753
June, 1910.. 2204 10 „ ~1250 954 10,707
But note a thing or two, especially in connection with
the recent rapid growth of reserves. Down to 1908
something was written off visibly ; since then, nothing.
Part of the additions now made to reserves is, it seems,
merely a set off against actual depreciation—merely a pro-
vision for future renewals. The past half year’s profit and
loss account shows a profit of £1621 ; but another £583
drops mysteriously into the general renewal reserve. In
fact, apart from the additions to various renewal funds,
the profits for the half-year were only £1450. All this is,
however, more or less vague and uncertain. From an-
other point of view more positive results can be got.
Five years ago the surplus of liquid and semi-liquid
assets over liabilities was £6827. It is now £4129, or
£2698 less. Meantime, however, £7859 has been added
to the book-value of mains, services and meters ; and
that the money has been well spent seems to be proved
by the fact that revenue has sprung from £2820 as at
June, 1905, to £5280 as at June, 1910. To be able to
show that growth of trade without additions to capital,
and practically without incurring any debt, and while
paying out a substantial dividend, is a remarkably good
performance.
* * * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1904 .. £ll6O 15 p.c. = £750 £4lO £6,984
Dec., 1904 .. 1180 15 „ ~ 750 430 7,414
June, 1905 .. 1111 15 ~ ~ 750 361 7,775
Dec., 1905 .. 1205 15 „ „ 750 455 8,230
June, 1906 .. 997 15 ~ „ 750 247 8,477
Dec., 1906 .. 1079 15 ~ ~ 750 329 8,806
June, 1907 .. 1273 15 „ „ 750 523 9,329
Dec., 1907 .. 1097 15 ~ ~ 750 347 9,676
June, 1908 .. 1216 15 ~ ~ 750 466 10,142
Dec., 1908 .. 972 15 „ ~ 750 222 10,364
June, 1909 .. 1117 15 „ ~ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909 .. 872 15 ~ ~ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910 .. 1090 15 „ ~ 750 340 11,193
Depreciation is chanted to profit and loss; but the
amount is unspecified. At June, 1901, land, mains,
meters, etc., stood in the books at £13,061; they stand
now at £12,031. So, besides anything spent on exten-
sions, £lO3O has apparently been written off in nine
years. The position in 1901 compares with the present
this way :
1901. 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £4424 £10,404
Liabilities 317 324
Surplus .. .. £4107 £lO,OBO
Thus a dividend of 15 per cent, has been paid through-
out, extensions and repairs have been made, and £5973
has been put by. As the paid capital is only £lO,OOO the
record is very fine—from the shareholders’ point of view.
Tamworth Gas Co. (Tamworth, N.S.W.): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend-. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1904.. £642 10 p.c. = £546 £lOO £2009
Dec., 1904.. 631 10 ~ ~ 546 £B5 2094
June, 1905.. 635 10 ~ „ 546 89 2183
Dec., 1905.. 597 10 ~ „ 546 51 2234
June, 1906.. 595 10 ~ „ 546 49 2283
Dec., 1906.. 660 10 „ „ 546 100 14 2297
June, 1907.. 618 10 ~ ~ 546 72 2369
Dee., 1907.. 632 10 „,, 546 100 2355
June, 1908.. 607 10 „ ~ 546 61 2416
Dec., 1908.. 610 10 „ ~ 546 64 2480
June, 1909.. 604 10 ~ ~ 546 58 2538
Dec., 1909.. 606 10 „ ~ 546 60 2598
Premiums on new shares .. 544 3142
June, 1910.. 583 10 p.c. = 570 13 3155
This co. has issued 1000 new £1 shares at a premium of
30s. to 30s. 6d. Instead of this premium being added to
the reserve fund, it is taken to the credit of profit and
loss—the account out of which dividends are paid. The
money ought to be transferred straight away. It is
doubtful whether anything is written off against depreci-
ation : if it isn’t, then the profits are not true profits.
And if the amounts put to reserve are the only provision
made for renewals, it looks highly probable that the
dividends are in excess of the true earnings.
* * * *
The Permanent Building Society (Launces-
ton, Tas.), formerly the Northern Tasmanian P. B.
Society :
Dividends Writ-
and ten To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £1782 7 p.c. =£1335 £447 £14,498
1901.. 1595 7 „ „ 1462 133 14,631
1902.. 1745 7 „ „ 1633 112 14,743
1903.. 1733 7 ~ ~ 1613 120 14,863
1904.. 1612 7 „ ~ 1501 111 14,974
1905.. 1453 7 „ „ 1341 £2236 12,850
1906.. 1122 7 „ ~ 972 150 13,000
June,) 1905 7 ~ ~ 1318 346 241 13,241
1908 j Profit on sale of written-down assets 1379 14,620
1909.. 1438 8 p.c. = 1194 244 14,864
1910.. 1578 8b „ „ 1232 346 15,210
The dividend or interest regularly credited to share-
holders is 7 per cent.; and in the past couple of years a
bonus has been also credited to shareholders and bor-
rowers. The amount credited to borrowers ought to be
shown separately ; if it were it would in the fore-
going table be deducted from profits. As mat-
ters stand, the whole lot has to be lumped with
the dividend ; and the rate of the dividend can in conse-
quence only be stated approximately. Various move-
ments may be followed hereunder :
1900. 1905. 1909. 1910.
Share capital .. £20,871 £17,323 £16,125 £17,034
Deposits ... .. 47,643 15,354 33,061 29,335
Other debts .. 216 Nil 1,186 3,174
Mortgages, etc. .. 82,537 43,958 61,374 71,033
Premises .. .. Nil Nil 4,000 4,000
Cash, etc 718 1,469 105 94
Business has thus moved along briskly. Deposits and
other liabilities have much more than doubled in five
years ; but they appear to be still very well protected by
the capital and the reserves, the latter unusually sub-
stantial for a building society of this size.
Shares in the 1.0. A. (Insurance Office of Aus-
tralia, Ltd.) were much over-applied for, in spite of
the unusually large amount of paid capital asked for.
As there is evidently a great deal of money waiting to go
into this sort of investment, it is probable that a subsi-
diary co. will be formed, mainly to take some of the other
co.’s reinsurances. Numerous insurance offices have a
pony, as it were, in the same stable. The second concern
allows of a second agent being appointed in country
towns. And there are other advantages.
* * * *
Some remarks were made here lately regarding
the dangers ahead of the trading co. which carries on
business in premises held on lease, and especially short
lease. Now from Melbourne comes a case in point:
The recent sale of the Watson properties was a bad
thing for some of the city folk who had been renting
their premises from the trustees of the late Bendigo
millionaire’s estate. The prices paid in certain instances
were far above the estate’s estimate of value ; but the
purchasers, it goes without saying, will lose nothing by
their “liberality”; for up goes the rent. The invest-
ment of the new landlord demands justification from the
occupant who has a short lease or annual tenancy'. The
idea of a landlord not getting a “ fair return ” on his city
property is out of the question. He must get it. The
sacred law of supply and demand requires him to get it.
Besides, the tenant, as a rule, can’t afford to shift. For
instance, one of the Watson estate properties sold at
auction the other month was a small building in Flinders-
street, right out of the “expensive” radius; but the
purchaser, basing his calculation on the fact that the
tenant had done a flourishing business there for a dozen
y'ears, paid a comparatively false price for the place, and
promptly raised the rent by 41 per cent.
* * # *
Mount Lyell blister copper contract was lately
secured by the Port Kembla (N.S.W.)refinery. Thus the
product of two of the biggest Australian copper mines—
Mount Morgan and Mount Lyell—is now to be refined in
the Commonwealth, as it should be. Kembla must have
bid keenly for the work, for since that Australian refinery
started up, the American competition for Australian
copper has been quite unparalleled. That Kembla suc-
ceeded in competition with the world suggests that it
can refine as cheaply as any other part of the world. Or
else the refining co. has taken the business at a loss, or
Mount Lyell has decided to put up with a loss in order to
give some encouragement to local industry'. It is hardly
likely that Lyell directors would make a financial sacrifice
for patriotic reasons, although there are in the Lyell
group one or two decent barrackers for Australia. The
one thing certain is that Mount Lyell must have been satis-
fied that the Australian refinery can produce as good are-
fined electrolytic copper as an.vone. Following the prac-
tice of the United States, the Kembla refinery will take
the blister copper from Lyell on a toll charge— i.e., the
refinery will charge so much a ton for turning the blister
copper into high-class electrolytic copper, and for liber-


By- Appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
to adt as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorney’s tinder
Power, Agents, etc.,
You are assured of Absolute Security, Efficient
and Economical Management, etc.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Write for Booklet.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
: v. . Manager.
BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
f Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalg:oorlie.
[1
Every engineer in charge of factories and 'mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & COi,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* • • *
“Ferrodor” Paint,—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesbur.v, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell’s
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipes and boilers with Bell's Asbesios
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Sydnej-.*
* * *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465): —“The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenridge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables ’with longitudinal riffles.. has
been greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478)remarks:
“One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability to separate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made by any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wilfley Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [I
* * * #
“ Fibro-Cement” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets.
In large size, Bin. x 4in. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and
581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* • [1
* * * *
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue
of 30/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited:—“The Colonial Mutual
typifies, to a great extent, the Australian spirit, the
keynotes of which are ambition and enterprise. This
Society has much which commends it for acceptance to
our countrymen, while its reputation f- - aightforward
dealings largely explains its success ir- „ther countries
in which it operates.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE has become a \ _ry definite item
in the specifications of Australian Waterworks pro-
positions, and for its economy and great durability is
being more and more extensively adopted. Catalogue
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from. Felton, Grinnvade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* • * •
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
*** i *
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs.
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of, high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”*
* * *• *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automaticlubrica.
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and' c.omes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
• * ’ » . ft'
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria;*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
•* • * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals: etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
*tin;r the gold and silver. Mount Lvell’s duty, therefore,
was to see that the refinery which secured the contract
could give them back a copper which would realise the
highest possible value in the market of the world. Port
Kembla must have been able to satisfy Mount Lyell that it
can do this. There is no reason why it should not. It
is, in fact, already well known in Europe that the copper
produced at Kembla is equal to the world’s best.
The Kembla refinery will have to be enlarged
to accommodate the Mt. Lyell production of blister. Its
modest beginning was conceived in an atmosphere of
patriotism and business. Captain Richard, of Mount
Morgan, and his Board supplied the patriotism ;
Francis H. Snow, the Hirsch metal-buying firm’s
attorney, threw in the business. It is probable
that the crowd behind Kembla are too strong
to be squashed by 7 American combine methods of
competition ; but despite all the economies of refining
locally, those engaged in the smelting business in Aus-
tralia are never permanently free from the necessity to
fight for their lives. Metal businesses and industries are
better organised and protected in the United States and
Germany than the average Australian ever dreams of,
and if those two countries can get control of most of the
metal the world produces, then they are in a fair way of
telling the rest of the world what it may do and what it
may not do. If Australia to be of real live service
to England in matters of defence, it had better consider
carefully where the bulk of its ores are being treated, and
the commercial metals actually produced.
Kembla has got the Lyell contract for three
years. The time seems short enough ; but perhaps by
the end of the period the copper-refining industry will
have developed sufficient strength to stand up to the
fight it will again have with the American and German
combines. It is noteworthy that the co., in calling for
tenders in Europe and America for its output, inserted a
provision for cancellation in the event of the Australian
Government imposing an export duty on ore or unrefined
metal. It takes Australia a long time to realise the
methods by which its industries are being hampered and
undermined by the foreigner; but now that a Labor
Government is in power a suspicion arises in some
quarters that a practical view may be taken of things.
Broken Hill Block 10’s best mine has been on
the surface for a good many years past. Its ore was hard
and close-grained and the losses of metal were so heavy
that, long before there were any zinc-concentrating
works on the mines, it was able to sell quantities of its
tailings to the German magnetic-separation people. Since
then it has made other big deals, out of which nearly all
thedivs. of the past five years have been paid. Now it
has got rid of the balance—l3o,ooo tons on the dumps
and 22,000 tons which it expects to put .there
bv the end of the year. The Amalgamated Zinc
(De Bavay’s) is the buyer, at a total of 440,000,
equal to 8-s. per share. Underground the position is very
glum. The other week it looked as though the Sulphide
Corporation next door had found a new ore body for
Block IQ ; but the latter’s luck was out. Its area isn’t a
rectangle ; one corner is cut off. This cut-off corner
does contain a good body, but the latter seems to pinch
out either before it reaches Block 10 or very soon after.
* * * *
Old hands smile at the press booming of the
Broken Hill South Extended. The history of the concern
inspires w vast amount of no-confidence. The J. Bull co.
which owfis it used to own the Consols. While it rum-
maged for ore in that patchy mine it underwent several
changes, and was always just on the point of doing some-
thing tremendous. At last J. Bull got obviously tired,
and then the scene was changed ; shareholders
were told that they could get rich by taking
up some of the waste places at the south end of
the Broken Hill line. These waste places had been
prodded and abandoned by various ops., but it was easy
enough to say that these various cos. hadn’t prodded deep
enough, in order to encourage John B. to prod deeper.
It may be that he will succeed ; but on past records of
the co., and in view of its unwieldy bulk, it will probably
pay even the gambler best to think twice before he
plunges once in the South Extended. Its nearest biggish
neighbor is the South Blocks; and the South Blocks
haven’t yet earned a div.—and it is about 15 years since
they began to try.
* * * *
The co. which, a couple of years back, started
to prospect a coal property near Wybung Head, on the
Sydney side of Cat herine Hill Bay, had its annual meet-
ingin Sydney lately. The directors reported that the
4ft. Wallarah, or Bull!, seam had been proved at 220 ft.
and the Great Northern seam at 380 ft. The co. proposes
now to gef to real coal-winning work. The mine, when
opened, will be the most southerly of all the Northern
properties; in fact, the property is just about midway
between Sydney and Newcastle.
* * * #
Hampden, ■Oloncurry (Q.), lately called for
tenders for carting some" 5000 tons of ore from the
Duchess, about 45 miles; but evidently the tenders
didn’t suit. Anyway, the co.’s own teams have been
carting. For the most part, though, Hampden will have
to depend upon its own ore for the smelters until such
time as a railway is constructed to the Duchess. So far,
this line has not been sanctioned by Parliament; but a
Bill would be certain to go through, though no doubt
the Hampden Co. would be asked to show its faith by
nutting up half or two-thirds of the capital. At the
Hampden plant-construction is being proceeded with.
The trestle work and ore bins are being erected, and
shortly part of the smelter plant is to arrive.
* * * *
HampdemCloncurry has invested in a powerful
gas engine. Producer gas will be made from charcoal
obtained in the locality. To pay for this and other
t'nngs the fourth call of Is. has been , made on con-
tributing shares. Both Hampden and Duchess are
patchy; but a long course of development has placed
them in a position to produce some rich ore ; so there is
bound to be fireworks sooner or later, as there is now in
the case of the Elliott.
* * # *
As soon as the railway line reached the mine, and
the first parcel of coke (130 tons) came to hand, the
Mount Elliott (Q.) treatment plant started up. That was
on the Ist September. To start with such a small tonnage
of coke on hand, and the works so far from the seaboard,
was risky ; but subsequent deliveries of coke have kept
the works going without stoppage, and a coke reserve is
now accumulating. At the smelters and converters
everything has worked smoothly, and an unusually good
job was evidently done both by the designers and builders
of the plant.
The scheme for the reconstruction of McGregor,
Oloncurry (Q.), is to be-amended in one respect to meet
the wishes of J. Bull. The first idea was to make the
shares a nominal 55., paid to 2s. ; J. Bull wants them
nominally 10s., paid to 7s. The co. won’t, of course, be a
penny better off for the change ; but it may make it
easier for shareholders, who want to get out by-and-bye,
to push the shares up.
* * * *
O.K. Copper Co. proposes another reconstruc-
tion. Hitherto the management has been alongside the
mine, in North Queensland ; but as the baby’s nurses are
now mostly South Australian, the office is to be shifted
to Adelaide and a new Board appointed. The new
Board which has already been arranged, proposes to send
out 112 685 pref. shares of 4s. Knowing that the outlook
is very blue, the directors propose to offer a 10 per cent,
cumulative preference for 10 years, with participation in
ordinary divs. as well, three votes for each share, arid a
preference as to capital. The idea is to get down and do
some sinking ; and the Queensland Government is to be
begged to help. One doesn’t feel like hitting a co. when
it is floored ; but the Government would be justified in
telling these people that they have got into the present
me«s through pouching the profits and laying-by nothing.
And any grant should, therefore, be regarded strictly as
an advance. „
* * * *
Oaks Rush mine (North Queensland) is going
in for a 10-stamper battery, and has applied for a piaehine
area on Copperfield River. Development above the 100 ft.
level has shown a fairly big tonnage of crushing stuff,
and the adjoining block is showing good prospects at
50ft. near the boundary. These workings are all very
shallow, and different conditions will obtain below the
oxidised zone. The crushing recently put through—22B
tons for 437 oz. —is highly payable. It was divided into
90 tons firsts for 2950 z. and 138 tons seconds for 1420 z.;
but it would be better to give the collective tonnage.
Also, as the quality of Oaks gold varies," the value of each
lot should be set out. Charters Towers takes an interest
in the mine, and Manager J. A. Waters may be expected
to give shareholders a fair go.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, has a
more hopeful look, for a winze started from No. 3 level
in blank ground had a face of fair looking stone at a
depth of 37ft. No. 3 west level is in 321 ft., with a few
inch's of stone showing in the end ; and also with fair
prospects of getting a good make, since No. 6 winze
(some distance ahead of the face) has good stone at 70ft.
No. 3 east is also being extended parallel to the dyke in
the hope of picking up another run of payable ground.
No. 4 plat is being cut in readiness to start No. 4 level.
The latter coincides with Mills’ United’s No. 10, which has
been extended in N.B.F. ground for 154 ft., though with
very moderate prospects. It is now practically certain
that the N. B. Freehold has a big slice of poverty at
depth, so a good crushing like 1159 tons for £5407 doesn’t
help the market much.
* * * *
At Charters Towers Bonnie Dundee continues
to receive much attention—more than the capricious
show warrants. The idea has gone round that it has a
formation identical with the Queen Cross, which paid big
dividends. But the Queen Cross worked more than one
reef, and the Bonnie is only suspected of getting on the
trail of one that was worked 20 years since.
* * * #
Kulamadau, Woodlark Island (Papua), reports
a crushing of 1914 tons for £4452. This is nine weeks’
work. The average per ton was £2 6s. 6d., compared
with £2 18s. 3£d. for last half-year. -Working costs are
not likely to be much over £1 per ton ; but shaft-sinking
and new machinery will make a hole in the co.’s pocket.
There is, for all that, talk of a small dividend.
* * * *
A splendid yellow sapphire, weighing 19dwt.,
was got the other day by a miner at Sapphiretown
(Queensland). It is one of the largest stones of that
color found there, and is estimated to cut into somewhere
about 30 carats.
* * * *
The first return of the new Perseverance mill is,
as anticipated, not too comforting. The quantity put
through is small (13,138 tons), and the value per ton
(255. 4d.) is 4s. 6d. lower than when the old mill was
running. Costs are exceptionally high—Bs. 4d. for
mining, 13s. sd. for treatment and 2s. 4d. for general exes.,
or a total of 245. 2d., compared with 18s. 9d. last August.
Adding capital and development expenditure, a loss is
shown of £1576. Briefly put, the new mill’s first run
shows: ore, 13,138 tons; yield, £16,696 (255. 4d. per
ton); working exes., £15,899 (245. 2d. per ton) ; total ex-
penditure, £18,272 ; loss, £1576. The old mill showed
for last August: ore, 19,692 tons ; yield, £29,385 (295. lOd.
per ton); working exes., £18,481 (18s. 9d. per ton); total
expehditure, £22,382 ; profit, £7003.
* * * *
As if in disgust with the trend of recent Golden
Horseshoe returns, Nature lately took a hand, and shook
herself to such purpose as to close up a big section of the
upper levels, and cause a flurry as to the safety of the
plant. There have been some previous alarms, with not
much notice taken of them ; but a firm resolution to do
some underground filling has been compelled by the
latest shudder. Cracks in the surface went perilously
near the foundations of the main compressor and the
boilers, but the sacrifice of some firewood down the
holes saved the situation. The main shaft will have to be
stripped to clear the pressure on the timber to
the sixth level, while general safety is to be
studied by some much-needed filling with sands.
The Horseshoe is unfortunate in having to place
all its plant on the hanging wall side, and with so many
lodes through the lease the ground is literally honey-
combed. The only wonder is that, with the 100-head
heavy stamp mill shaking things up night and day, filling
was not kept close up to the stoping. It is officially
stated and generally believed that not much ore has been
lost. Some idea of the state of the ground was given by
the disappearance of a 40ft. telephone pole, which was
discovered by a repairing gang just showing out of
ground.
8 * * * *
The Golden Horseshoe return for August shows
up a little better, a few more tons having been got out
of the mine, but of a fractionally lower grade: 23,867
tons were treated for £34,043. The surplus over working
expenditure was £6418, or, with capital and development
charged up, £l6O. In July there was a loss of £1558.
August last year showed a profit of £20,040, and a grade
of 40s. 2d., so there is big leeway to make up.
* * * *
The efforts to hide the conditions at the Oroya
Link (W.A.) prove more and more difficult. August
profit shows £l7lB compared With £3614 for July, and,
more significant, the falling away is due more than any-
thing to grade, which was 28s. for July and 245. lOd. this
last month. The assay value of the ore is not given, but
it looks very much as though the cleaning out of the
Orova-Brown Hill, which puts an end to the mixing of
oxidised and sulphide ore for the mill, is about to result
in the looked-for shrinkage in extraction and tonnage
treated. Moreover, the Link leasesalone arenot prepared
to yield the tonnage demanded of them. London holders
of promoters’ scrip think a change of management may
do something to relieve them of their burden, but the
new man will have to put some ore in the ground and
make the mill do impossibilities if he is to escape the in-
evitable necessity of 12 months’ solid development work
and slower mill extraction.
* * * *
The Flag, of Ravensthorpe (W.A.), wants some
money. Present cd. is in 38,000 shares fully paid to 55.,
and another 50,000 are now being sent out at 2s.
premium. So far the Flag has given £25,067 worth of
metal from 6431 tons, of which 1934 tons have been
smelted and the rest milled; but the battery is
crude, and only a 50 per cent, recovery -has been
made. The object of the present issue is i the pur-
chase ■of the neighboring Harbor View, on which
there 1 are tailings said to be worth £25,000, and
the erection of concentrating plant. This plant
would, it is estimated, bring up the recovery from the
Flag to 75 per cent, and take £6OOO of profit out of the
Harbor View tailings. Alex. Montgomery, W.A. State
mining engineer, says the Harbor View )ode is “a good
strong one, and the ore body is solid and clean ; ” while
in the Flag the lode has been proved to average sft. down
to the 300 ft. level. Beyond that no work has been done,
though the Phillips River Co. (same field) is working
down to 500 ft. on ore. No estimate of ore in reserve is
put forward ; but, on the other figures submitted, the
proposition looks well worth •considering.
* * * *
Gwalia Consolidated, which, after many changes
of management, is now in the 8., M. and Co. stable,
reports a development of 15ft. of ore at the 200 ft. level,
worth 565. a ton. As the existence of the lode was pre-
viously known, and as there is no mention of its possible
antimony and other like contents, the announcement is
regarded merely as a kind of consolatory message to
anxious holders. This show has plenty of ore, but how
to treat it at a reasonable profit is the problem.
* * * *
The Murchison (W.A.) is getting some fresh
attention just now on account of the reported find of
miles of reefs at a place called Mount Egerton. Some
four miles of reef have been pegged, and the finders of
the original claim talk soz. to the ton. Mount Egerton
is about 210 miles from the coast, and is south-east of
Carnarvon, the chief port of the Gascoyne sheep country.
* * * »
Shades of the old General Gordon and many-
little Gordons 1 The local company holding the old
General ground has come across a rich run of ore going
80s. to the ton. The total cost of mining and milling at
this show is 15s. lOd. a ton, so 80s. ore represents a
bonanza. But what is the quantity proved ?
* * * Jr
At the moment (writes a man at Kalgoorlie)
one hears more of wheat than of gold, and I believe
there would be a bigger rush for a new-found wheat-belt
than for a mining field.
* * * *
The Uriah Heap spasm of virtue which struck
the Ballarat Stock Exchange last week over the pre-
mature disclosure of some find at a Daylesford mine is
over, and the patient can be said to be out of danger,
under the careful treatment of Drs. Bell and Buchanan.
What Daylesford mine managers have to be careful of in
the future is not to subject people to such sudden
shocks. The warning given by the great specialists
named is that all news ought to go through official
channels. Then it can be judged whether it should be
passed on or broken gradually, so as not to
tell too severely on the patient. It may be
added that the attempt to charge men in the
telegraph department with having broken confi-
dence, is rebutted. No one of the friends of the sufferer
ever thought blame rested in that direction. The up-
and-down prices have been the result of pure accident at
the Ballarat end —at least, that' is what the Ballarat
brokers say. Per contra, another story is that, at more
than one Board table, charges and counter-charges
of getting “ in the know ” early have been slung about;
but no dirty linen has so far been washed openly.
* * * *
Whisper says that Great Southern Consols,
Rutherglen (Vic.), intends to “do a buck.” Before
taking on any pranks of that kind it had better remem-
ber its age and its many weaknesses begotten of past high
jinks. No one can run through £326,000 worth of gold
and £45,000 of subscribed cash without having a few
aches and pains as legacies. Divs. paid tot up £19,000,
but they have been so occasional that the present gener-
ation can hardly recall the last payment. So far as the
“ buck” goes, recent work cannot promise more than the
payment of expenses. Six thousand fathoms averaging
13fdwt. was the last tally. That might leave a bit of a
margin in better country and in a new mine, but the
Consols has to use up a forestof timber whenever the lead
widens. A slab of wash 600 ft. long .between Nos. 24 and
26 shoots is about all the drained ground the mine has to
draw on. If the market is as green as the wash ahead,
it will listen to the old story, and will then add to the
wealth of those who have put the yarn about, by re-
lieving them of the packet of scrip that they may want
to get rid of.
* * * *
The deep sinking being carried on by Jubilee,
at Scarsdale (Vic.), is not disputing the legend that in
the Ballarat district gold thins out at beloiv 1000 ft.
Jubilee is 1600 ft. deep, and whereas half-year after half-
year, it used to pay six one-shilling divs., it now looks
like dropping down towards the sixpenny stage. The
last five half-years’ work panned out thus :
Tons. Value. Divs.
July, 1908 .. 18,009 £24,393 £7200
Jan., 1909 .. 16,688 19,697 3600
July, ,1909 .. 19,096 25,499 7200
Jan'., 1910 .. 17,278 23,022 7200
July, 1910 .. 15,928 20,776 3600
The co. has done well for those who handled it, as, on. a
capital of £36,000, it has paid £145,000 in divs. Whether
it will add much to that total depends on the way the
No. 17 level opens up. Stone from that part is needed,
seeing the progress of stoping at 15 and 16 levels.
* . * * *
Bowes Kelly sticks to Tasmania. He has a big
bale of free and other shares and a lot of country at
Mount Balfour. No one thinks he is deep in Lyells, but
there.is a belief that he has more than a finger in the
Hercules and Tasmania Copper show at Mount Read.
Now he owns up to the intention of having a cut at Sligo’s
tin sections at North Dundas. The risk there is
not so great as at Mayne’s, whither memory does not
want to flit. Kelly and his friends are to put'up £l2OO
to test Sligo’s ground. If good, £lO,OOO cash will have
to be dumped out for equipment. This does not state
where Sligo comes in, nor do Bowes and his pals let out
that secret. Sligo has been throwing his good stuff into
the Dundas shows for a decade or so, and the inquiry is
whether he is too tired to hold on longer.
■** * #
There are still some staunch believers in the
possibilities of the Maroomba field who think that Wilson’s
verdiet on it was too hastily arrived at. To be sure, he was
on the job for 18 days, but in an alleged metalliferous field
which is at least four miles square there is room for an
expert to miss a good many indications. Still, the wind
from the Northern Territory is not whispering either
“ Gold ”or “ Silver ” just now. The word is Radium, and
the locality the Pine Creek district. The mysterious ore
on which one Nieman’s hopes are fixed is plentiful enough,
and should his crude tests be confirmed in Melbourne
laboratories, the discoverers will introduce their property
to the market.
*.» t * *
The big Waihi (M. 8.) continues to gouge out
great quantities of ore from the bowels of Maoriland, and
pay fat dividends with some of it. During 1909, 416,813-
tons returned £959,594, and the divs. were £446,316. The
ore comes from nine different lodes, but the old original
Martha still supplies about half of the total. Ore reserves
at the end of 1909 were reported to be 1,335,586 tons—
enough for three years at the present rate of crushing.
During the first six months of the present year over
231,000 tons were treated for £491,500. The dividend
declared for September brings the total so far for this year
to £401,000 odd; and the grand total to £3,962,322.
These are brilliant figures, but the co. hopes to go still
better. The fly in the management’s honey-pot has been
the necessity to leave behind large quantities of ore not
worth sending to the mill at the present working cost.
But the co. has got a concession from the Government to
take electric power from the Waikato River at Hoiahora
Falls, above Cambridge, gome 50 miles away. A start
has been made on the head works. The installation is
put down to cost £150,000, of which the directors have
voted £40,000. It is more likely to cost close on £250,000.
The Waihi may be required to supply other cos. with
power at reasonable rates ; and the Grand Junction will
likely call on them.
All this looks promising for bigger dividends,
yet the shares lately got a set-back from which they
have not yet fully recovered. It was said that values at
the 1000 ft. level were low, and that the shrinkage had
been concealed. The concealment charge, at any rate,
was untrue, Further, values have lately improved. The
fact is, values do not correspond perpendicularly from
one level to another ; and as the shaft goes down to the
next 100 ft. level it takes further driving to reach the.
same make of reef. Thus costs must' somewhat increase.'
Another reason for the slump was heavy gambling in
shares. Yet another, which is only whispered, is the
danger of a creep in the hiine. This Whisper is always
smothered quickly. Yet the plain fact is that the reefs
are so wide, and in places the ground is so rotten,
that it is difficult to pack the filling earth tightly enough
to hold things up. The system of filling in by contract
does not tend to improve matters either.
. Waihi Grand Junction, next to the big mine,
is beginning to feel its feet firmly under it. After a
costly and badly managed infancy, it is. now lusty. It
produced for the first six months of this year bullion
worth £66,853 atacostofaboutlfis. 2d. per ton. This out-
put is £28,000 beyond that for the corresponding period of
last year. The Martha, Royal and Empire, three of the
big lodes of the Waihi, have been definitely located in the
Junction. Its shaft is down to 1010 ft., but over 500 ft. of
that is in barren zones, which is a common experience at
Waihi.
*** * ■
J.P.S. : It is a limited co. You undertook to
pay a certain amount, and you may be compelled to pay
that amount, hut no more Wilkie: No, thanks. We
like writing our own libels.


❖
*
f-
NOTED
*
Cherry Brandy.
v
The Best of Liqueurs
S./J
EST. 1818.
o
D
Oil®
a
■<i\
-A
&
A washin’ and dryin’ clothes
all day long and foldin’ ’em up
ready for ironin’ is pretty ’ard
work, and makes yer back-
ake —1 wish some o’ you men
had to do a day at it every
now and then, it u’d open yer
eyes a bit to th’ sort of work
a woman ’as to do.
There, 1 ’spose if 1 didn’t do
washin’, I’d have to do somethin’
else jes’ as bad, besides when
yer gets used to it yer don’t
seem to mind so long as yer
can get a decent cup o’ tea now
and then.
1 likes th’ No. 1 Grade
Robur best when 1 can ge«
it—it cost thrupence a pound
more than most people likes to
pay—but there, bless . yer ’art,
it isn’t any dearer in the end,
’cause it goes so much further
than th’ tea what most shops
sells —what I’d like yer to do
is use th’ Robur No. 1 Grade
in your house in case 1 ever
comes to work for yer.
The Washerwoman,
fC
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 20, 1910.
My Dear Arini, —
Mrs. Carreno did not play the Moonlight
Sonata on Saturday night at her opening concert.
She wore it instead. The great pianist is thinner
than when she made our acquaintance three years
ago and her moonlight-blue satin, embroidered in
shaded blue beads, showed herslenderer lines, grey-
ing hair and glowing dark eyes to great advantage,
xor nearly two hours the beautiful musical thun-
derer crashed out big tonal or orchestral effects,
or anon charmed her auditors with the tender
delicacy of her interpretations. Dolores, on her
vvay to Melbourne, was amongst the charmed
circle of listeners, and after the concert the two
stars met for the first time, and struck joyous
musical fire from the friendly impact.
lhat sedately-tuneful institution, the Sydney
Liedertafel, broke out into starched shirt-fronts
and song on Wednesday evening last in the Town
Mall, and the welkin chimed like a peal of cathe-
dral bells. It was the 154th concert, and the
stupendous fact was relentlessly blazoned on the
programme. Lest anyone should imagine the
Liedertafel men have been singing part-songs for
more than 150 years, I hasten to explain that the
Lieders gather together several times during
every 12 months to make harmonious remarks
about “ the pure forest altar, whose flames never
falter. To get an idea of how many years the
Liedertafel has been in existence, the number of
the latest affair should be divided by 4 or 5 •
and the earnest investigator will please do it for
himself as I hate sums. The “Bacchanalian
Chorus of J W. Elliott, Raff’s “Fisherman’s
‘ he ", ®'^ ,ne Wine Song ”of Mendelssohn,
and Brahms s “ Lullaby ” were the most captivat-
ing volumes of sound that floated up through the
blue tobacco-smoke to where I sat.
Miss Kate Rooney, the contralto bird, has
started back for the land that has proved itself
such a good stepmother to her, and given her a
pretty home with a wonderful mulberry tree in
its garden, to say nothing of a husband thrown in.
(JNot into the garden, of course.) Her tour proved
a good money-gatherer.
Which reminds me that a new Australian
singer came on the stage one day last week. Mrs.
H. B. Allard that is, and Miss Emma Sussmileh
that was, has the chief responsibility of training
the little vocalist. 5
Little Fanny Dango quitted the “Orchid” a
week before it was due to be cut by “Our Miss
bibbs.” She took a quantity of gifts and flowers
fitter the final curtain, and a day or so later
wearing his last gift—a 600-sterling string of
pearls—-she took also the Southern express. Later
she will take the Osterley back to her own country
and later still her miner-squatter admirer will
follow and she’ll take him in holy matrimony.
Bretty I anny has taking ways, and in a sense her
takings of gems and a fine husband ought to be a
good advertisement for the land she will presently
leave behind her. Other first-class india-rubber
talent, viewing the properties and the man, will
want to come out here; and we shall be the
gainers if they are up to the Miss Fan Dango
sample. &
Such a beautiful frock was letting its light
shine in a Pitt-street shop last week. Some
eight or nine others were in the windows
of the same firm, and all were intended for the
bibbsian girls in the production of next
Saturday night. But only one out of the
dummy parade of gowns was the gown
tnat reached my heart. It seemed to be of
apricot ninon, wide gold wire (like the mesh
the seraphim use for keeping the baby cherubim
from premature flying), some indescribable
silk embroidery, and a courageous introduction of
black satin shining out of the golden gloom near
the elegant dummy s golden left foot. It was not
a cylinder gown either. Of hobble there was
none ;so there won’t be any wobble. Some 79
model articles, gowns and hats have been made
tor the new musical comedy piece; and the 39
Articles are nowhere in comparison. A number
of Sydney shops shared in the making, and one of
the makers has confessed that she has tried to
‘ convey something spiritual ” in the lot entrusted
to her. ‘She had tried to make them speak the
language of color.”
It reminded me of a short story I had just read
in some (I forget what) magazine. It was mainly
about a lady who wore one of the picture-gowns
which get along without fitting and have a
tendency to slide off at the shoulders. The
confection was a mass of orange and gold
(not unlike the frock in tiie Pitt-street
window), and the wearer’s bronze hair was
twisted filletwise about her head, with a daffodil
—Heaven knows where she got it at that time of
year !—above one ear. She designed her own
clothes, and once remarked of another woman •
‘Just think of her in something of the color of a
Persian lilac, the highest-soul color, falling from
her shoulders in long, straight lines.” She was
always talking about auras and spiritual bonds
and all the time making soft eyes at the other
woman s husband. And, after all, she had nothing
to do with the Gibbsian gowns.
The doughty Runciman, one of the foremost of
English-speaking musical critics, a man given to
putting dynamite charges or charges of dynamic
phrases into thecomposer’s musical goodsand blow-
lngthem to pieces, is arrestingly appreciative about
Mr. beorge Clutsam’s opera, “A Summer Night ”
Clutsam is a Victorian—lived most of his life in
Melbourne, and lately married Mrs. Minna
Fischer, the well-known voice-trainer. Runciman
says that “A Summer Night” is the best work by
an English-speaking man yet produced in England.
Ihe story is based on a tale, in the “ Heptame-
ron, ’ of Marguerite of Navarre, but so carefully
expurgated and purified that it wouldn’t shock a
young nun. For the phraseology of the libretto,
the cumbrous way thestory is told, Mr. Rui.ciman
has no praise—only bricks and vitriol. But for
the music : “‘A Summer Night’ is the work of
a master, the most masterly opera lately written
by one of our race.”
As the critic later refers to it as a “ brief
masterpiece,” let us pray that one of our Sydney
musical bodies will manage to let us hear it one
of these summer nights of 1910.
Concerning veils. Some of our well-known
Sydney women are going about disguised in the
new wire-netting and geometrical-pattern veils
that hide not only make-up but features as well.
They are expensive, too. The other day I assisted
a friend to buy one. It was a black mesh with a
thick rhombus pattern. (You know that four-
sided figure whose sides are equal, but whose
angles are not right angles.) There was only a
yard and a quarter of it, but it carried a one-
guinea penalty. It looked only a four-and-nine-
penny disguise. Foreign fashion intelligence says
that the two-veil standard is being adopted :
The fashion of the combination of colorings in veilings
one over the other, which has become such a pronounced
vogue in both evening and afternoon dresses, has spread
to the veil itself, and women are soon to be mysteriously
hidden behind folds of mauve over blue, mole over pink,
dark blues shading rose and pale blues. A lining of pink
under black lace or white has been recognised for a long
time as very becoming.
Lady Poore must have done as well as she ex-
pected for the Bush Book Club by the pastoral
party at Greenoaks. Some three hundred pounds
sterling were taken.
No wonder the much-tapped artesian supply of
Charity occasionally dries up. A Mosman woman-
friend tells me that, a month or so ago, she was
beguiled into giving backsheesh to a small, silent
girl who handed in a crumpled note, which stated
briefly that her mother and father were walking
barefoot about the house, and woujd be glad of
some assistance or boots. (Apparently the couple
did not regard boots as assistance.) The charit-
able householder got together two pairs of boots,
a,n old dress, a round of beef and a few sundries.
She made the lot into a parcel and presented it to
the child with a piece of silver. The infant de-
parted with cheerfulness and rapidity, and the
Protector of the Poor resumed whatever house-
hold job she was at. Three weeks later, she re-
moved to another villa a few streets off. On the
second day there came to the 'door the same silent
mendicant, and mechanically handed in the same
old crumpled note. The Declaration of Depend-
ence was greasier than before, and had acquired
a strong aroma of gin. “ Wait a minute,” said
the Dispenser of Gifts. Five minutes later the
small girl was on her way home with a sealed
envelope, containing a battered threepence and
the Declaration endorsed with two lines from
Omar:—
Come, fill the Cup, what boots it too repeat
That Time is slipping underneath our Feet?
And she had underlined the “ boots.”
One of the sincerest mourners in Sydney for
poor Mr. Edwards, the clever actor-dancer’ who
fell out of a dinghy and was drowned last Satur-
day in the harbor, is a small girl of five or there-
abouts. She was at the house where the unlucky
boy (he was only 21) put up, and the two
became devoted to one another. He took her with
him everywhere. In his spare time he started to
teach her to dance, and found her an apt pupil.
She quickly learned Miss Perrin’s dance in “ The
Arcadians,” with the “dive” and all complete.
The child was on the yacht within a few yards
of her friend when he went .down.
The death of Mr. G. Gidley King throws a
number of families into mourning. He was a
near relation of the Macarthurs and of Mrs.
Colonel Onslpw. A daughter married Mr. Leslie
Wills-Alien, at whose station the Chelmsfords
stayed last week.
Hon. Sec. of the Child Study Asso. makes an
appeal on behalf of that most worthy charity,
whose funds are now at so low an ebb that grave
danger exists that a number of very sad cases,
under Dr. Alan Carrol’s free treatment, may have
to be given up for want of necessaries, such as
milk, cod-liver oil, ointments, medicines and sur-
gical supports. Many of the serious ailments are
caused by deficient nourishment, injuries, wrong
feeding through want of knowledge, etc.; and
some of the children can neither walk, stand nor
sit. Some of the mothers are widows, who have
to earn, by charing, support for themselves and as
many as five children. Donations in money,
clothes or food will be acceptable ; the hon. sec.
will be found at Australian Chambers, 289 Pitt-
street.
Cardinal Moran’s friends are making as much
joyful fuss over his 80th birthday as if he had in-
vented being twice-forty years old. I suppose
that on the morning of the 16th he told Dr.
O’Haran to bring him Cicero’s “De Seneotute ”
with his early-morning tea. Cicero’s opinions on
advanced age are so much more consolatory and
respectful than King David’s. The Cardinal is,
or has been, a good workman, and “good work-
men,” says Beranger, “ live long.”
A mineralogical wedding occurred early this
month at Summer Hill, when Mr. Jack Atkinson,
of Ashfield, married Miss Emily Grant, also of a
western suburb. Father of the bridegroom is the
chief collieries inspector, and the groom is a
mining engineer with a Cobar billet. Coal-mine
interests and the University Engineering School
were well represented in the guest-list.
Small-girl Vera Parker, who came from Bris-
bane to enter her contralto voice at the Common-
wealth Eisteddfod, would seem to be the star per-
former in her class. She annexed first prize as
champion contralto soloist, and as solo warbler in
a sacred song test she also came out first winner.
Her friends hope that the newspaper portrait
published last Sunday will not shade her young
days with sorrow.
All the liners that will struggle out to sea during
next March are already booked to the utmost
passenger-berthing capacity. It is no use your
trying to get a passage that month, and if you try
to book for early in the following month you wiil
be an April fool. Intending departers all mean
to be in London for the Coronation. It is to be
hoped that King George is a better shot with a
crown than he is with a gun, else he is liable to
brain the Archbishop of Canterbury with the
implement. (The intense reticence preserved
about the name of the person who nearly slew the
countenance of Lord Kilmarnock at the royal
shooting party leads everybody to assume that it
was George V. who went off so suddenly.)
A new disease seems to have attacked the play-
wright and librettist. It manifests itself jn their
“show-room” and “shop-girl” scenes, with
appropriate dialogue on the frocks, hats and
model corsets on view. Even some of our ama-
teur playmakers—Mr. Clarence Lee and Miss
Agnes Chambers, for instance—have made a very
good job of the clothes-horse scenes in one of
their recent plays. Well, they write down to
woman’s vanity, and, as a woman-writer has re-
marked, “ the only way to kill a woman’s vanity
is to kill her, and then 10 to one if the corpse isn’t
wondering if her shroud fits.”
Miss Ola Humphrey was announced in English
papers just to hand to appear on the 10th of this
month in the leading woman’s part in “The Man
from Mexico” at the Strand Theatre. So, pre-
sumably, the bright Californian is now dancing
and blithering and making alarms and excursions
in the play in which we saw Miss Grace Palotta
and Mr. Hugh Ward. It is difficult to imagine
Ola in such an outrageously farcical rdle. The
Morning Leader publishes her portrait,
and St. James’s Gazette tells of the state
of nerves into which the manager of the
Strand was thrown when he got a letter from
Ola J., telling that she was about to fly the first
25 miles from Munich to Oberammergau to
witness the Passion Play. He wired forbidding
the airship frisk ; but Miss Humphrey had already
started, accompanied by five men. The flv was
successful, and the remainder of the journey was
made by motor.
Australia has not yet got the Mannequin. An
English publication lately had something to say
about the new institution. She is scarcely known
in New York ; a few years ago she was not heard
of in London. France invented her:—
The primary essential is that she should possess a good
figure and the social historian of the future may find a
table of her proportions valuable—such as a 22 to 23-inch
waist measurement; 40 to 42 hip measure; and a 34 to
36 bust. The wearing of a 42-inch skirt is the guide for
height. Other dimensions, such as length of arm and
breadth of shoulders, have also to be considered. In
many establishments, especially those in Paris, the
slighest deviation from the foregoing scale will debar a
candidate. But that is not all that is imperatively
required. There is grace of movement and carriage and
deportment.
There is a Mannequins’ Club now in London.
It meets daily at a certain tea-shop, and the
jocular boast of its 15 members is that it is the
best-dressed club in Europe, although the wages
of its members does not come to more than 30s. a
week each. Some of the dialogue heard :
“ I wore to-day three street gowns, four new tea-gowns
—very chic—five evening gowns and a court robe, with a
train of silver cloth studded with pearls.”
ou have looked charming.” (Not a
syllable, by the way, of her interlocutor’s being over-
dressed, as a chance auditor might expect.) “As for
me, I wore eight evening gowns and two court gowns,
one with a perfect dream of a train of azure brocade
trimmed with old lace.”
bounds a pitiably make-believe existence, for the
girls then talking were dressed in their own
apparel—the plainest of ready-made blouses, coats
and skirts.
Someone sends me from the Land of the Star
Murder a press cutting of essayist Filson
Young s denunciation of Captain Kendall, who
“wirelessed ” Crippen and Le Neve. It is.a fine
bit of invective. It scorches so : “ Captain Ken-
dall s messages to the Daily Mail are a disgrace
to the mercantile marine and to the profession
of the sea. They are an insult to the
King, of whom the commander of a British
ship is a direct representative; to the
law, whose powers are vested in him ; and to every
sailor. What his temptations may have been I
do not know ; the responsibility for that lies with
the Daily Mail editor and with its principal
proprietor, Lord Northcliff. But he proved a
sufficiently apt tool.” This “ precious reporter-
captain ” told the chief-officer (of the Montrose)
that the discovery must he kept absolutely quiet,
as it was “too good a thing to lose.” “For a
Judge on the Bench, or the governor of a prison,
or a general in the field, to send reports of his
doings to a newspaper would be no more im-
proper than for a ship’s captain to do what this
man has done.” A certain piquancy is added to
Young’s assault on the Daily Mail by reason of
the fact that he was the paper’s literary editor for
some time.
As Crippen and Le Neve are the first (alleged)
murder-makers to be caught by wireless, the cap-
tain seems to have been rather vain of the fact
that it was his wireless. He talked so much and
got photographed so often that one wonders if he
ought not to be an actor instead of a sailor.
Mr. Biard d’Aunet, who consulled here for a
space, and ended by wedding the widow of the
late Justice Innes, has been lecturing to the
“ International Congress of Freetrade” at Angers
France. It appears that our old friend was a
fervent anti-Protectionist when he was with us.
He still holds to the view that Australia, if it
does not immediately drop Protection, will burst
or go bankrupt or something; and he made the
Congressmen at Angers shiver last month with
the figures he quoted in support of that theory.
Meanwhile Australia forges calmly ahead, in
total ignorance, seemingly, of the fact that its
doom has been pronounced.
In a crowded room the other night, one of those
sudden, inexplicable hushes was fractured by the
following masculine bleat: “ Oh, I detest false
teeth ; they.make a person look positively horrid
when dead.' JVLere feminine vanity surely cannot
go further than that.
Such an artful and useful work-basket for
travellers made mv acquaintance at the Boy-
croft Library. I believe it is the invention of an
Australian girl. It is not easy to describe intelli-
gently, but here s an essay : For packing it lies
quite flat—as flat as a pancake. In fact the
centre—a circular piece of cardboard—is about
the size of an average pancake. Bound this are six
pieces of cardboard (or whatever the stiffening
material is) and through loops in the middle of
the six run a slender cord. When the traveller
takes her basket on deck she draws the cord, and
up fly the six sides, making a nice safe hollow,
full of little silken pockets and other tricks.'
Ihe outer surface is covered with olive green
suede.
Another sea-faring invention by an Australian
gir is an apron with pockets like the old-fashioned
wall pockets, to wear when the ship is rolling and
the lady is dressing. The pockets will hold all
she needs in the etcetera line, and she will be
saved the trouble of going aboufthe floor eight
times on all-fours in pursuit of combs, brushes
hairpins, powder-puff, ties and the like.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
N.S.W. has had 17 Premiers in the 55
years of its responsible Parliamentary life, giving
each Premier three years and a fraction of rule.
Wade is still a trifle under that average. Keid
put up five years one month 11 days; and Parkes
did one stretch of four years 15 days, though his
aggregate was 11 years nine months 16 days.
What brings the average down so much is the
record of the Premiers choked in infancy.
George Dibbs was once laid out in one month 19
days, and another time in two months four days.
Waddell went off after two months 16 days;
Donaldson after two months 20 days; and
Cowper after one month eight days. There have
been 33 Ministries formed in the 55 years, which
shows pretty swift shuffling.
S. Aus. is putting one of its Rhodes
Scholars —the first one appointed—to a practical
US9. Norman Jolly took a diploma in forestry at
Oxford, and then had a year’s experience in the teak
forests of Burmah. Latterly he has been teaching
mathematics at Geelong (Vic.); but that seems a
waste of time for a man with his special know-
ledge, so now he has been put under the
Conservator of Forests in S.A.. with the primary
duty of conducting a class in afforestation at the
Adelaide School of Mines.
The girls of Sydney have a “Pioneer Club”
now, as well as the men. At its first annual meeting
it was said to have reached 180 members. Only de-
scendants of pioneer or old families are chosen as
officers and committee girls. The newly-elected
president is a great grand-daughter of Colonel
George Johnston, of Annandale, who came out as
a lieutenant of marines in the first fleet. The
vice-presidents, six in number, all bear early-day
names—-Cox, Darvall, Gidley-King, Manning.
Suttor and Windeyer. The committee may be
described as a mixed lot —Antill, Blaxland, Bray,
Balmain, Lamb, Stephen. The organiser is Miss
Christine Spark, descendant of A. B. Spark, who
was a merchant in the ’3o's and afterwards. He
built Tusculum House, in Macleay-street, the
first residence of Bishop Broughton, and after-
wards the home of William Long. The honorary
treasurers are Norah Throsby, descendant of
Betsy Broughton—the child who was rescued by
Alexander Berry after the Boyd massacre. Her
colleague, as treasurer, is a Darvall.


/
£
Hr
y
isi *
I
i\
Mi
< :<
tMs
». V;i 5
asv!
ti:- 1 -
1.1 if. V*
iiillS.lli
StMSB
GOB**
;r4 SPO?
i
«S& J
mm
$
s&s! «* I:
>d^
; £
RfeJ
??
S i
H
o
i!
!
/
X
/
38
jaa
. ,/t
**'**s#**
. *£s&*'
a
*r
-4 *../7
•*& r ~"
C-O-B-R-A 15he Boot PolisK!
Chunder Loo I
Of Akim Foo,
With his Cobras
Driving thro’,
Wrings admiring
Shrieks from all :
“ Here he comes
From Old Bengal 1
Chunder Loo !
For Black and Tan
Very polished
Sort of Man 1
All the. other
Sorts he loses I
Cobra is THE
Stuff for Shoeses I


Madame Wdgd’s P&tteriVS.
SYDNEY Agents-
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD., King & George Streets.
J. W. JOHNSTON, 440 George Street and
746 George Street, Haymarket.
MELBOURNE Agents-
W. H. COOPER, 23 Royal Arcade.
BALL & WELCH PTY. LTD., Flinders Street.
MADAME WEIGEL’S PATTERNS.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA.
THE FIRST and STILL THE BEST.
Sold at prices from 3d. to 1/- by Agents Everywhere.
FACTORY: RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
S SI
J/[(
w
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE
Gives Years of Hard
Service.
Does Not Kink or
Burst.
Specify "BUNLOP” Brand
if You Want the Best.
Obtainable all Leading Stores.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER OO. f
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.
Vrv"''
v.</I«*
mb
Theres r
SATISFACTION &WEAR
aDimlop
Rubber Heels
OblaiivaJMe aJI
BOOT STORES
ACCEPT ONLY ;
‘ DUI\LOP”
|
d
Dunlop 1
Rubber Co'
£ra.les
1)
Medical & Toilet. Black & Green fkket r^?
GOLD MEDAL FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION. —
AN IDEAL TOILET SOAP . . .
A DELIGHTFUL NURSERY SOAP
being absolutely Non’-Irritating
most delicate skin.
even to
the
A Perfect-BATH SOAP, being most Refreshing in use and at the same ti me Antiseptic
AN IDEAL soap for the hair, as it cleanses the Scalp perfectly, and makes the
. / hair Soft and Glossy.
A PERFECT SHAVING SOAP, as it Lathers Freely in even t}ie hardest water.
F. H. FAULDING 8 CO., London, Adelaide, Perth, Sydney.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 19, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Forrests are just now handing out heaps of
entertainment. A recent dinner-party at the
Grand filled Spring-street so full of blazing motor
lamps that ordinary traffic could only force a
way through by the eloquence of the chauffeur;
When politicians blaze like this, it usually means
that the Parliamentary barometer is falling.
There being no dafightet Forrest, Mrs. Forrest
tucks two Westralian nieces under her wing to
play the clinging parts at these significant festivi-
ties,
Carreno has gone, twirl over the n and all.
She came one Friday and departed the next, and
scattered the balm of five beautiful concerts in
that short time. At the Thursday matinee—it
was a hot day—she sailed coolly on to the plat-
form in a mermaidy gown of foamy sea-green.
Above the waist-line, the dress was mostly white
net 5 but a huge, black bat of embroidery spread
covering wings to port and starboard. Julius
Knight listened eagerly in the centre of
the front row, and made the pilgrimage
behind the scenes during the interval. With
him was Katherine Grey, who buried a small,
nervous, white face in the depths of a huge
plumed hat. The two Carreno daughters, rapt
students of their mother, sat in the sacred front
row also, and never missed a bar. The von
Pinsehofs besieged the family, turn about.
Melbourne has never had anything quite like
Carreilo's playing; but the fashionables and the
climbers who rush to hear the Boomed were
inconspicuously present at the exquisite music-
making of this great woman, who refuses to be
announced by the brass gong of advertisement.
She is used to being taken to the heart of musical
people, in whatever city she happens to sojourn,
without any banging of the brazen instrument.
Wattle had such a boom last week that it
crowded out the daffodil. And the daffodil
takes a lot of crowding out. It is the flower of the
day with culturists, and growers twisted them-
selves into Catherine wheels of ecstasy, last week,
over the Royal Horticultural Society’s show. The
function is certainly an exquisite one; but it
needs the eye of the enthusiast to see why a man
should tie himself into knots over a pink rim on
an orange cup, or an infinitesimal kink in a cream
petal. Alister Clark, who breeds racehorses, also
breeds the sacred flower. He is a worse daffodil-
arian even than “ Tith.,” and takes prizes by the
armful. He was one of the happy creatures to
turn the other growers dizzy at this last Show.
A friend of the Glenara amateur gardener,
but an enemy on the show stand, is Leonard
Buckland, who takes champion prizes with daffo-
dils grown in his Keyham garden at Camper-
down. Another hot rival, D. U. West, sends his
blooms all the way from Casterton.
At the Alister Clark’s place, Glenara, the
daffodils grow over acres of grass slopes, under the
trees, and they are like so many children to their
grower. Among the dozens of varieties there is
not one he cannot call by name. The small ex-
perimental bulblings are his “babies.” Mrs.
Alister Clark is a sister of R. H. Rhodes,
of Christchurch (M.L.), who also breeds daffo-
dils and racehorses. After wandering round
the show here and comparing notes with his nose
to the ground among brother-in-law “Glenara’s ’
blossoms, Rhodes bolted over to Sydney to
watch his animals hurry at Randwick. Mrs.
Alister Clark shares the family hobby. The garden,
which is a designed wilderness, with the design
carefully disguised, grows all sort of flowers, and
is kept as a sanctuary for wild birds. It is planted
in the valley of a creek, and climbs up the steep
sides, all among massive granite boulders. Mrs.
Clark, laden with chopped meat for her feathered
pensioners, goes out to a lawn and chortles a weird
call. From far over the creek and the wilderness
beyond come wild magpies—whirring and rushing
—to the gracious almoner. They cry for their
breakfast at daybreak every morning, with the
liquid cry that is like a ripple from a harp heard
over water.
The Governor, with Dame Carmichael and the
beautiful Captain Vaux, clambered up the many
stairs to the upper plateau of the Athenaeum on
Thursday afternoon. His Ex. is getting quite
used to those stairs and that room ; for he is a
keen hunter of pictures, and the shows there
have been continuous. Bernard Hall was the
Thursday attraction, and Carmichael mounted
the platform and declared the show open. His
graciously superfluous remarks were heard by all,
so he must be "getting the range” after much
practise. Bernard Hall’s “backgrounds” made
a blaze like a house a-fire. Orange and lemon and
French-niustard color are his favorite colors for
“ throwing out ” the heads. (This sounds like
“ Two up,” but it’s merely paint language.) One
sitter (a man) is favored with a vivid rose-pink as
his off-setting. By usage the color is sacred to the
bedroom tapestries of young brides or of senti-
mental fluffy girlettes. Hall employs the rose
color voluptuously in another picture, wherein a
dreamy-tinted model is shown waving wine and
roses over the head of a prostrate artist. With a
theatrical eye for contrast, a gruesome canvas is
put next-door—a skull, from which eyes seem to
glare, squatting on parchment. “Curses that
Live ”is the cheerful label. The beautiful brazen
lady sleeping in front of a burnished brass shield,
has a place of honor. It will be remembered
that the reproduction of this canvas in
The Lone Hand hurt the feelings of a
person in Maoriland. There is a fine bit
of color and movement that Johanna covets—a
sprite, with clouds of gorgeous auburn hair, clang-
ing cymbals in midair, like a glorified Salvation
Army lass who has aeroplaned to Heaven on her
enthusiasm. A powerful bit of black-and-white
is a sketch of a head for the big canvas, “The
Colosseum,” where the black-haired figure is
tumbled in a strange anatomical heap on the floor
of the dungeon.
The Fall of Julius is imminent. Like the
prodigal of old, he answers the call of the fatted
calf; and so we are to have “The Sign of the
Cross again* It seemed inevitable when
‘ Navarre ” followed “The Third Degree.” In the
modern American drama Knight seemed to have
turned into a thorough-paced modern, in middle-
aged spats and decorous trousers. As Henry of
.Navarre, he fell just a little from grace by pulling
off his riding boots for a few quite unnecessary
minutes, while wooing his Princess Margot in
true Petruchio spirit. Those beautiful black
silk legs, twefe plainly a shame to hide them !
-D rotn that the descent to Superbus Was easy.
Cyril Maekay shows good points as a “Navarre s'’ 5 '’
dandy* As the Duke of Guise he is exquisitely
garbed* and looks as though he is exquisitely per*
fumed. His neck was built for a ruffle. When
men do, they do. So Guise Maekay even wears
diamond earrings, and his eyebrows are archedlv
pencilled. Margot—Miss Warwick—gets there
somewhat with her frocking—though a mere she-
bird is overshadowed by the finery of the male
strutting cocks. Her farthingale, “the biggest
in Paris,” gets plenty of stage room. “ Did you
think it was me ? ” she asks her lover, with the
maiden modesty of the times, as she pinches her
two voluminous hips.
There was a silly rumor in Melbourne, a while
ago, that Arthur Edwards had captured the
affections of a clever young heiress. Asa matter
of fact, their acquaintance was hardly a friend-
ship, and the sprightly damsel resented any men-
tion of the rumor. All the same, she must be
sincerely Sorry to know that it never can be re-
peated. News of the death of the nimble dancer
shocked.everybody in Melbourne who takes any
sort of interest in theatrical people. Many are
heard inquiring which of the young men was
Edwards; and when they learn that he was the
high-shouldered boy who danced so bonelessly,
and surprised them by his strength when Essie
Perrin took an angel-flight into his arms, they
wish they had seen him in another part, and taken
more interest in him on that last night of “The
Arcadians ” in Melbourne. The tragedy of
Arthur Edwards sets one thinking of Houston’s
lines in A Shropshire Lad ”
I wish one could know, I wish there were tokens to tell,
The fortunate fellows that now you can never discern ;
And then one could talk with them friendly and wish
them farewell.
And watch them depart on the way that they will not
return.
But now you may stare as you like and there’s nothing to
scan ;
And brushing your elbow unguessed at and not to be
told,
They carry back bright to the coiner the mintage of man,
The lads that will die in their glory and never be old.
At the time this is being printed, Melbourne’s
most elevated citizens are getting themselves into
bizarre raiment, and muffling themselves for the
big ball of the winter—-the masque ball for the
Foundling Hospital. The ball only begins to roll
at 9 o’clock, and the masquerade must be kept
up until a quarter to 11, when a gong will
call off the disguise and awful revelations will
happen.
Somebody reminds me that there wasn’t a
recent election of the “she-committee of the
Foundling Hospital” ; therefore it could not have
been that committee which lost two of its oldest
members through a cattish electioneering dodge.
The victimsof the trick were connected with quite
another hospital than the Foundling, but a men-
tion of its name would be stale news this week.
It can be taken as read.
The Mayoress and Mrs. Albert Miller, backed
up by Mrs. Fred Payne, Mrs. Buchanan, Mrs.
Wertheun, Mrs. O’Hara and a host of other
enthusiastic dames, send cards out for a massive
reception at the Grand to meet Dolores on Friday
afternoon, September 23.
Mrs. Longstaff, mother of artist Longstaff, has
gone to Sydney, and is staying at Petty’s Hotel,
where she will be “in” to old frends of herself,
and old and new friends of her gifted son, on
next Saturday afternoon. Two daughters—one of
them Mrs. Muntz—and a son-in-law accompany
Mrs. Longstaff, who is a pretty and vigorous
old lady whom no one would ever guess to be the
grandmother of John Longstaff’s eldest, a lad of
20. The family trip has been taken to allow the
senior lady to see her son’s pictures of the late
King and the Queen-Mother at the Gallery.
Grimwade, the millionaire chemist, just dead,
was wondrous wise in the provision he made for
his widow’s peace of mind. He left several nice,
comfortable annuities to women “on condition
that the said So-and-So remain in the service of
my wife.”
A double-page illustration in one of the London
papers shows Sassiety rushing out in its motor to
the Goodwood summer races. The women, with
their heads bound in mummy veilings and snug
motor bonnets, are all carrying huge boxes on
their knees. Hats, by all that's wonderful !—to
put on when they reach the racecourse. There is
a hint for the windy, dusty road that leads to
Flemington.
Apropos race-hats and race-hat troubles. Agi-
tated husband rushes up to steward. “Do you
happen to have seen my wife anywhere ? ” “ Oh,
yes; the lady under the eighth hat—that’s your
wife.”-
The implacable ghost of the railway smash has
a long arm. The Richmond Horror scored
another victim only last week, when James Munn,
secretary of the Trades Hall Council, was found
drowned at St. Kilda. Munn, who had taken
over the job of Council Secretary after the retire-
ment of Stephen Barker, received a bad shaking
whilst sitting in the wrecked Brighton train.
He was apparently uninjured ; but his nervous
system had been ruined, and he became a melam
choly sick man to whom life was a burthen.
Engine-drivers nowadays have no end of bftd
luck. Engine-driver Dick and Fireman Chamber-
lain, having got free of the dangerous railways,
were cycling home at 1.15 on Sunday morning!
when a motor, out for a pleasuring in the moon-
light, struck the awful rock-gardens in Elizabeth-
street, skidded, and knocked both cyclists out.
Chamberlain escaped with bruises, but Dick went
right under the car. He has since died of his
injuries. There seems to be dogged Fate follow-
ing up Victorian railway men.
It is enough to make the ghosts get up and
wail ! When the Elingamite was wrecked there
was a well-remembered tragedy on a raft. Now
ft Sydney man who bought that raft has found a
soldered tin of stores—biscuits, raisins and,rum—
carefully planted in a hollow. The goods re-
mained quite sound, though years have gone since
the wreck. And it was on that raft that men
starved to death, and a stewardess lost her reason
through privation and hunger, and drowned her-
self !
Friends of Mrs. Houyet-Howard, thg clever
pianist, had intended to give her a farewell con-
cert ; but the concert is to be abandoned, and-
some solid testimonial is to take its place, since
dates for sing-songs are so crowded in this most
musical city. The Howard Conservatoire of
Music, begun by ’cellist George Howard, wfts ear-
ned on pluckily by his widow after Howard’s
tragic death. It began very well. At the open-
ing, way back in the ’Bo’s, ' Dolores christened
it with some glorious warbling. Then a broken
boom made it impossible for Melbourne people
to support the school, and it crumbled away.
Toorak people are taking the leading odds in this
farewell ; for Mrs. Houvet-Howard has long been
planted down in the Tooraketty suburb, carrying
on her piano part of the Conservatorium lessons,
even though the violin and singing and other
branches had to be lopped off.
The Scandinavians hereabouts are getting ready
for festival, On Monday next there will be a
concert in the German Turn Verein—llSVictoria-
street—and the menu is sumptuously musical.
Jansen, decorated by the King of the Swedes,
and Mrs. Ohristesen are to sing; and Una
Bourne is to play. Afterwards there will be a
tableau—" The Bridal Return from Hardanger ’*
—and a scena from Verdi’s “Otello.”
Mrs. Railway Commissioner Tait and daughter
Winnie begin to pack for a trip to London and
’Murka. The Fred Paynes also are dusting out
their Saratogas in readiness for a quick bolt as
soon as they’ve seen the Cup run.
A strong draw to one of the charity shows due
to happen next week is the whisper that a former
living-picture is to be repeated in the tableaux
part of the show. The animated picture presents
a shapely lady sitting on a substantial tree-limb,
garbed lightly in a quantity of tulle. The Lady
of the Vision almost wept at the whirlwind of
excitement she raised the first time, and protests
that the peculiar lighting was responsible for the
startling Eve-like effect. So she is going to do it
again to prove her words ; and people are falling
over each other to buy the five-shilling tickets.
Incidentally, of course, sweet Charity scores.
The woolly youths of Dalgety’s have a joke that
has lasted them quite a while. This season a
Japanese woolbuyer “appeared in their midst,”
as the clergymen say, with marks on his visiting
card which, translated into English, made
“Mister Ba-ba.” Nowadays you have only to
make the complaining sound of the sheep, and
Dalgety’s rocks on its foundations, and for the
time being forgets its fancy socks utterly. When
Commerce strikes a joke in its own line of business
it hangs on to it real hard.
Mumps have reached the stockbrokers. Alas,
alas ! Such are the troubles of Fat. It cannot
keep even mumps out of ’Change in these de-
generate Labor days.
The craze for decoration of any exposed part of
the human frame makes the young feminine of
the species something of a jest. Her neck and
arms have long been well adorned, and now her
skimpy short skirts leave a fresh field to be
exploited. Not every girl can get her wrist bangle
on her ankle—there is the foot to navigate—
but a wrist-watch and strap are adaptable. The
pert flapper buckles her watch to her lower limb
and does a high kick sideways to see the time.
Since the skirt has become tight a sharp hitch
precedes the high kick.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The girls of Glenelg entertained their brethren at the
local Town Hall on Friday evening. Mrs. H. J. Pearce,
Mrs. Healy and Mrs. S. C. Tolley received on their behalf,
and pretty Dolly Tolley—a vision of cream and gold—was
an unimpeachable secretary. Other human decorations
were a Pearce maiden, in pale pink ; a graceful, yellow-
clad Pybus girl; and a pink silk Miss Bayer.
The Literary Theatre redeemed a session of mediocre
performances by a special show on Saturday and Monday
nights at the Walkerville Hall, the play given being
“ Prunella,” by Lawrence Housman and Granville Barker.
It is a fantasy, half make-believe, half stern-reality.
Prunella, brought up on strict early-Victorian lint s by
three maiden aunts, is lured away by a fascinat-
ing Pierrot, who, with his band of roysterers,
breaks into the garden. He marries her, but explains
pathetically that he wasn’t used to being married, and
people laughed at him. So one day he left her, having
given her money and fine clothes and everything but his
love. This he took with him ; but it became bad com-
pany, and at last he returned—to find his Pierrette gone.
Going sad-hearted to the garden where years before he
had found her, he discovers that two aunts are dead, the
third poor and broken-hearted, and the place falling into
decay. He buys it for its ghosts and memories, just as
Prunella, in rags, comes back. The dialogue is poetic,
charming and delicately satirical, and the play crowded
with opportunities that the amateurs, almost without
exception, grasped with artistic zest.
The prevailing wetness washed the Port race-meeting
from the 10th to the 17th ; so Agricultural Show visitors
had the privilege of seeing the jolly little Cheltenham
Park course in its best flowery raiment.
The boys and girls who make the Celestial noises for
which our Conservatoire is famous, gave a dance in the
Elder Hall the other night. The manly element was so
pervasive that every girl in the room had a lovely time,
and the only wall-flowers wore white shirt-fronts. Mrs.
Ennis and Mrs. Willie Magarey (Guli Hack, of adored
Conservatorium memory) took the receiving labors from
the shoulders of the hosts of hosts and hostesses.
The unlimited monarchy which controls South Aus-
tralia’s Art Gallery has decided to fish £125 out of its
stocking to buy Phillip Fox’s copy of Titian’s “ Entomb-
ment.”
We are getting every day in the calendar labelled.
Some dear, sweet people are rushing about trying to en-
snare a “ Peace” day, to hook on to the Sunday next to
Christmas. On that day anyone found battering his
neighbor with an axe will be chided severely.
Father and Mother Hay-Rick, and all the little Hay-
Ricks down for the Show, have so crowded us out of
house and stable that Amy Castles couldn’t find a hole or
corner to store her high G’s in. Finally, she sought haven
at the North Adelaide Hospital, where the charming
Little Sisters of Mary are guarding her. The Hay-Ricks,
used to the lightest of theatrical fare, went to “ Butter-
fly,” but regarded it as just plain Noise, arid said it was
a dull piece. One or two stout souls in Adelaide-for-
Culture have actually been heard to"say they thought so
too. Still, theipox-office is perfectly happy, raised prices
notwithstanding!
We laid ourselves out to be most beguiling to the Hay-
Ricks this Showtime. On Tuesday we had a Manu-
facturers’ Day, to show them what a mighty fine country
they have about them. Paris models, German sausages,
Russian coats, Scotch whisky, and other foreign bric-k-
-,brac were banished, and everything that ventured into
jj»he light of day had to be made in Australia. Exhibits
rarigcd from corkscrews to grand pianos, and divulged
the fachshat little Australia is getting very clever with
Its finge£sjVspecially in frockery and frjllery.
The two day^following, quite another variety of Aus-
tralian maid was let. loose upon the Hay-Ricks, each
with a collecting'box at the end of her strong
right arm. The first day, almost three hundred use-
ful pounds were filched for “Minda,” the deserving
home for weak-minded children. The next, several more
hundreds fell to the lot of the also-deserving haven for
Incurables. After that, the Deluge—literally, and not
metaphorically, in this instance. Jupiter Pluvius let his
water-butt overflow, and Mrs. Hay-Rick spoiled her
purple-plush frock with the emerald-green braiding.
Yet another strange person has been sending £lO
anonymously to the Government, accompanied by a
pretty little moral legend telling how he stole it and
repented.
The Army Medical Corps has locked Terpsichore up in
the ambulance, and dared her to stir until October 10.
On that date it will let her into the Unley City Hall, and
entice a giddy multitude to frolic with her. The entire
military forces are expected to get their guns off the top
of the wardrobe and turn out to guard the perilous
passage Up the hall, for their Excellencies will be there.
l|At the moment of writing we are expecting the visiting
Admiral Henderson, who is to tell Australia all about
“wireless,” and the Army and Navy are looking for their
bayonets in a hurry.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


PATHE FRERES (AUSTRALIA)
SYDNEY, 73 York Street. HELBOURNE, 50 Queen Street.
. ) ;Ul )7 • ; ' % • •
THE WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS OF
Films, Moving Pictures, Cinematographs, Pathephones.
> -rv>
THE LATEST ADDITION TO THE SUBJECT OF CINEMATOGRAPHY IS
PATHE’S ANIMATED GAZETTE.
Every Exhibitor should get acquainted with it immediately. It contains ALL THE BIG EVENTS OF THE
WEEK, as well as Minor Topical Titbits of interest to Exhibitors, Sporting and Athletic News, and Musical
and Theatrical Intelligence from all parts, including Australia. If you wish to keep your shows up-to-date
make it your business to become a subscriber at once. It is the finest publication of its kind in the world.
9u
D &
PATHE FRERES’ HIRING DEPARTMENT
contains over. 500,000 feet of Assorted and Picked Subjects to choose from, and embraces all our special features, including
Pathe’s Natural Colored Pictures, Pathe’s American Films, Pathe’s French and American Comedies,
and all the Best Productions of other Makers, giving, without doubt, THE BEST RENTAL SERVICE OBTAINABLE,
a dr- Pathe Freres are the only Makers of NATURAL COLORED SUBJECTS, and the assortment now on hand for sale or hire contains some of the
most fascinating Color Studies ever shown upon the screen.
THE AMERICAN FILMS are an exceedingly choice collection, and include some of the most stirring Cowboy and Indian subjects ever produced.
NEW FEATURES ARRIVING EVERY WEEK.
AN IMPORTANT ADVANTAGE: Please note that in dealing with Pathe Freres they do not stipulate A FULL PATHE PROGRAMME. On the
contrary, they encourage a MIXED PROGRAMME, and the entire choice of the London Market, which embraces Films by the Best Manufacturers in
the World, is at your disposal—an advantage which no other Firm in the Commonwealth can offer.
LOOK FOR THE PATHE TRADE MARK (THE CROWING COCK)
on all Pathe Films, Moving Pictures, Cinematographs and Accessories. Goods offered as Pathe’s without this brand are spurious imitations.
tH*
Supreme among Disc Machines.
The Machine with the Homan Voice.
PATHE FRERES ARE THE INVENTORS
of the PATHEPHONE, and the High Standard of Excellence they have achieved in this
instrument is only equalled by their pronounced success in CINEMATOGRAPHY.
THE PATHEPHONE is the
Cheapest of any Disc Machine
of value on the market—
Cheapest because it is
BEST.
THE BALL-POINTED SAPPHIRE
of the PA I HEPHONE is the original invention of Pathe Freres, and accounts largely for the vast superiority
of this machine over all other reproducing instruments. It brings out the tone-quality of the Record with clearer
enunciation and greater charm ; it does not scratch or require changing like the needles, and neither wears itself
out nor injures the Records. Users of the Pathephone appreciate these great advantages, also the fact that
THE PATHE SOUND-BOX
is superior in construction and sound-producing material to that
of any other make of machine. The Pathe Sound-Box has
always been ahead of others—even when the science of sound-
reproduction was in its infancy—and will fit any other Disc
Machine, enabling owners to play Pathe Records even if they
are not fortunate enough to possess a Pathe instrument.
THE PATHEPHONE is fitted with a long-
running spring motor, so silent in its movement that all you
hear is the VOICE ITSELF—absolutely true to Nature, with
the most delicate vocal inflection faithfully reproduced.
If you want to hear good music as you
have never heard it before, make it your
business to hear the PATHEPHONE—the
instrument which stands supreme among all other
sound=reproducing machines.
THE PATHE RECORDS are all Double-sided
one selection on the front and another on the back, thus
giving two selections where only pne is given elsewhere,.
Particular artists like s Ada Crossley, Ben Davies and others
declare the Pathe Records to be faultless.
Ada Crossley, Harry Lauder,
Ben Davies, Kirkby Lunn,
Constantio,
H.M. Scots Guards’ Band,
and many other world=famed artists sing and
play for the PATHEPHONE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE PATHEPHONE IN AUSTRALASIA
W. Cornell 8 Son, 95 Grenfell St., Adelaide
(For
5. Australia)
Findlays’ Pty. Ltd., Launceston
(For
Tasmania)
A. Macrow 8 Sons, 274 Little Collins St., Melbourne
(For
Victoria)
King 8 King, 77-81 Queen St., Brisbane
(For
Queensland)
Max Wurcker, 99 8 101 York St&et, Sydney
(For
N.S. Wales)
(For W.
Australia)
The Optical S Photo. Supplies Co., Perth


J r | ’WILL be better for your boots
2 if you use Cherry Blossom
Boot Polish —the most bril-
liant—the easiest in use. Requires
no hard brushing’ in the old-
fashioned manner, but just a little
light rubbing with a cloth or
polisher. Cherry Blossom is the
best for all boots—box calf, glacb
kid, etc., black or tan. Tins, 3d.
and 6d. Outfits, 1/6. If you have
any difficulty in securing it locally,
Write direct to us, and vve will see that you are supplied!
iiniuediately. Managing Agents for Australia :
•WIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney..
We read, “The Speaker took the Chair.’’
Now, did he take it anywhere?
If not, why cannot people say
The thing’s they mean from day to day?
But when I tell you that I’ll take
Woods’ Peppermint Cure for pain and ache,
I take it, swallow it, in fact,
The words agreeing with the act.*
Diabetes.
This highly dangerous disease will, in its earlier
stages, be susceptible of cure by prompt treat-
ment with Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Take them
in time. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
Foster Fraser has set tongues wagging on our
continent. Had he gone into the the back country and
sampled the real Australian, his conclusions would be
more worthy of respect. The only trouble many Aus-
tralians have is the r using of a moustache, and in this
connection Capillarine is most, effective. Not only is it a
strengthener of present growth, but it induces a tine,
healthy moustache to appear where none existed pre-
viously. Messrs. Craig and Aitken are the Australian
representatives of this marvellous application, and they
affirm that a little rubbed on each night is all that is re-
quired to produce a permanent moustache. Capillarine
has been steadily increasing in sales for the last 30 years,
and during that time it has given satisfaction to thou-
sands of men who were unable to grow a moustache.
Price 10s. 6d. per jar, pastgd to any address in the world
in plain wrapper.*
LET IT BE KNOWN.
The widest publicity should be given to the fact
that summer diarrhoea and dysentery canbe cure
by the judicious use of Chamberlains Co c,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy. It never fails.
When reduced with water and sweetened it is
pleasant to take, which is important when the
medicine must be given to small children.
CONSIDER YOUR
RHEUMATISM.
The- Only Way to Permanently
Cure the Complaint*
—— —C* ——
If you have rheumatism it is worth while con-
sidering how you can lie cured. The rheumatism
doesn’t exist without a cause—there s something
in your system to make the aching, swollen joints
and hot burning pains Now, if y° u^coulc l clear
that cause right out of your system wouldn t the
rheumatism be cured? Well that ls ®'
Williams’ Pink Pills way. Although many
doctors differ as to what is the real cause of rheu-
matism, the greater number agree that it is acid
in the blood. Most treatments aim to keep
down ” the acid in the blood. The tonic treat-
ment with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills builds up the
blood to a point that enables it to cast out the
poisons through the regular channels-the bowels
the kidneys and the skin. When this is done the
rheumatism is cured, and as long as the hlood is
kept pure and rich there will be no further attacks.
‘‘l caught rheumatism through living in a
damp house, and gradually it spread to every
ioint ” said Mrs. Marion Wilson, Bel more Street,
St. Peters, Sydney. “It appeared first in my
knees, and the pain was so intense I had to have
them bandaged in flannel. The joints would
swell terribly—wrists, fingers and elbows. My
fingers would go quite knotted. Ihe shoulder
blades and ankles got it as well. I tried liniments
and acetic acid and salicylate of soda, hut could
not find any relief. I had great difficulty in
walking. It was more like hobbling ; acute pains
would dart through me and I would feel fair y
criDoled. On a cold or windy or wet day I would
feel worse than ever. I dreaded to get my feet
damp, and if I put my hands in cold water I
would feel the cramp-like pains. At night too,
I would be kept awake for hours with the attacks
and be afraid to move. The warmth of the bed
always made me suffer worse. I would be so stiff
in the mornings I could hardly get about till the
middle of the day. I might be free practically
from pain for a few days at a time, but the attacks
always returned. I had to wear easy-fitting
boots, and much larger than usual my feet would
swell so. I was in great trouble for years, but a
course of Dr. Williams’ Pink PiUs drove the
poison right out of my system. I used to be afraid
of anyone coming near me or touching me, I use
to break out into a perspiration with the pain.
My appetite was very poor, too, for I was pulled
down in every way ; I had not the heart to enjoy
a meal I had no’color but all the symptoms
passed away as I took the pills. After a little
perseverance, I noticed that the pains were cer-
tainly less. My joints became more subtle. I
could raise my arms more freely and get about
the house better. I gladly kept on, and after a
good trial every symptom left me; and, though it
is some time ago, I have not had a trace of it
Williams’ Pink Pills are 2s 9d. a box, six
boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers or from The Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
Sydney.*
THE MOST EFFICIENT
DENVER
©
Truss yet in-
vented is
DENYER’B
SPECIAL
ELASTIC
TRUSS.
It ensures
complete safety to the rup-
tured, permitting the hardest
physical work or recreation
without inconvenience,
and comfortable. No springs to irritate.
Exact fit guaranteed. Call or write.
17/6 Single. 22/6 Double.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss and Abdominal
Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter StQ^SYDNEY^
POLITICAL
POINTS
“0.K.”: My trouble is to discover
whether the Laborites in the Federal Parliament
are a Yass-No or a No-Yass party.
“Senator Rae,” screams the angry, S.M.
Herald, “ is the only traitor to his State ” —over
the Yassberra business. Whether he is true to
Australia is evidently a matter of no consequence
at all.
The great Bank of Australasia welcomed
the impending ruin which is to come through the
Fisher Land Tax by putting up its dividend to
16 per cent.—the most that has been paid for oyer
20 years. That action branded the Stinking Fish
cry of coining ruin for what it really is—bluff.
HOORAY FOR DEMOCRACY!
There will be no real peace or prosperity in Australia
until we shake off the shackles which are sought to be
fastened on us; until we meet face to face upon a footing
of equality—pursuing the every-day task of ploughing
our furrow through the heavy soil and light, and to make
the,land for the Australian and the Commonwealth of
the future, etc., etc. — Deakin on Liberalism.
HIS FREETRADE-ANTI-SOSH MANAGERS : “My
word, that orter fetch 'em!”
The working of the Vic. State coal-mine
needs to be closely watched, seemingly. The
other week the Mines Department attempted to
create an extraordinary billet at Powlett. It was
proposed to bestow a salary of from £5OO to £7OO
per annum on a “manager of the sale of slack
coal ” ; but whilst 80 applications for the job were
in’hand, and 79 of them were being doomed to
failure, the Government decided that the sale of
slack coal could be “managed ” well enough by the
man who superintends the boring operations at
Powlett, apd whose salary is £4OO a year. Thus
ended somebody’s scheme for finding a fat billet
for a quite unnecessary somebody else.
Commenting on Australia’s great empti-
ness, a writer in the London Outlook observes: —
Ten years soon pass, and by no conceivable process
could a continent., “ nearly as big as Europe,” be peopled
in such a time by a nation resolved, as is the Australian,
to exclude from the whole of it, as their permanent
residence, all but men of British or Australian birth , or
of British extraction.
Thus do Petriana myths and. other Stinking Fish,
thrown upon the waters, return to cheer us after
many days. And they mostly find us with an-
other crop of the same sort of Fish ready to bn
sent out on their travels.
There is at present a deadly plot in Mel-
bourne to erect a statue to the memory of the late
Tommy Bent. Various persons are sedulously
touting for subscriptions, and the Victorian
Assembly is assisting with its petty cash. It has
not yet been decided whether it shall be in
marble, brass or bronze. The Bulletin suggests
mud.
This is the sort of comment that the ex-
posure of horrible sweating in the Hobart clothing
trade has extracted from the stodgy press :
The plain truth is, as everybody knows, that there is a
big demand for girls and women to do household work,
and if they will go and be “ sweated,” they have only
themselves to blame.
So the sweater has nothing to answer for. It
isn’t his business to think or inquire—it is his
business to get the cheapest goods. True, if the
goods are not human goods, he may even be sent
to gaol for doing this —on the ground that he
might reasonably have assumed that they were
not come by honestly. But if they are human
goods—well, he has no responsibility whatever.
It is a cheerful doctrine, and quite worthy of the
people who propound it.
The Wade candidates have adopted an
easy method of disposing of some of the charges
hurled at the Government. They characterise
such trifles as the McKye scandal, the “drum-
ming” of the Bowling jurors, the leg-irons, etc.,
as “ mere nine days’ wonders that are soon for-
gotten.” Similarly, William Sikes, garrotter,
might advance this weighty plea when charged in
the dock, and yawningly inform his ’Onah that he
had forgotten all about the occasion ; that it had
been a sort of nine days’ wonder at the time ;
that it had since been forgotten, or was bound to
be forgotten some day; therefore he was not
guilty, and if his ’Onah could spare the time he
(William) would shout.
Horrible result of the approach of the
land tax, reported, too, by the S. M. Herald :
The threatened land tax has probably had something
to do with the chance which came recently to the
Queensland Government to purchase the Inkerman
estate of 80,000 acres in,the Bowen district, for £130,000,
or at the rate of £ll2s. 6d. per acre. This is excellent
sugar land, and a private company is about to spend
£lOO,OOO on a sugar mill on the estate, and following on
the purchase two lines of railway will be extended into
it, from the north and the south, and junctioning at the
mill.
Even William Kelly, who in his mind’s eye can
see £300,000,000 of foreign capital fleeing over the
horizon, hasn’t yet tuned up his imagination high
enough to see 300,000,000 acres of land fleeing in
the same direction. If they leave us the land
they can take the capital. A couple of years or
so back the Peel River Land Co. took half a
million pounds out of the Tamworth (N.S.W.)
district, and Tamworth was never so prosperous
in all its life as it has been since the disaster
happened.
This anonymous letter (in a feminine
hand) comes to The Bulletin from Moonee
Ponds (Vic.): —
Some people should be very careful about making sug;
gestions of a lying nature about one of the most distin-
guished members of the State Ministry. It is only
jealousy, and deserves contempt. Anyone respectable,
virtuous and honorable can only get sneers and evil
suggestions from you. God in His wisdom knows why
you exist for such wicked purposes.
When William Watt became a member of the
Victorian State Ministry The Bulletin began to
receive anonymous letters galore, all in a lady’s
handwriting, about his virtues, his doings, the
things he was going to achieve, his mental
capacity, and the impossibility of the
country getting along without him. Later,
when this paper didn’t put Watt on the
very highest political pedestal, the letters
in the same handwriting became admoni-
tory. Now, they are filled with anger, but
no matter how the tenor changes the fist is
the same. Why it has been selected as the
victim of this correspondence The Bulletin
knows not. It begs to suggest that the scribe
of Moonee Ponds might give the Australian
Hen a turn —or the Meat Trade Journal.
Over the Federal capital struggle, the next
step to take is plainly up towards Australia’s own
door-bell. If Parliament is so completely divided
on the question that one-half of it ,says Australia
wants one thing and the other half says Australia
wants another thing, there is only one honest
course to take —to knock at Australia’s door and
ask the lady to say plainly what she does want.
Which is no more and no less than a referendum
amounts to.
The dual anxiety of Premier Wade for (1)
the man on the land and (2) a decent wage for
Government servants, is shown in the following
advertisement: —
ASSISTANT EXPERIMENTALIST, Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College, Department of Agriculture. The salary
of the position, which is in the General Division, is at
the rate of £75 per annum, with board and lodging.
Applicants must have had ah adequate training in scien-
tific agriculture, and be competent to assist the Experi-
mentalist in all experimental work. Suitable applicants
already permanently employed in the Public Service will
receive first consideration.
Add, say, £1 a week for board and lodging, and
the “saiary ” for a man with an “ adequate train-
ing in scientific agriculture” works out at Bs. a
day. It would be almost impossible to obtain a
man with an adequate training in drain-flushing
for less than that.
Said Joe Cook to Prime Minister Fisher
a day or so ago -
A statement had been made that relations existed be-
tween Mr. Fisher and Mr. Wade w'hieh retarded a settle-
ment of the capital site question. Was Mr. Wade
responsible ?
Replied Fisher to Cook :
Let me inform the honorable member that there is no
conflict between Mr. Wade and myself.
This is inexpressibly reassuring. Judging by
Fisher’s aggressive attitude towards Wade during
the last few weeks, this paper was beginning to
dread murder or something horrible.
“ Geofred ” : The coming event casts its
shadow ahead, provided the event has its back to
the sun. Three years ago a Labor man was hope-
less at North Sydney or St. Leonards. On
April 13, 1910, Labor-candidate Tighe surprised
everybody by securing 7000 votes at the Federal
elections, though the local P.L.L. had only about
30 members. To-day the league numbers over
370. Recently the St. Leonards League decided
to hold a concert to help swell the fighting funds
for nutting Down into the Assembly, and so great
was the rush that some hundreds were refused
admittance for fear of bursting the hall. And
while Down is quietly and steadily expounding
the Labor platform to audiences of 1500 and over,
the Wade candidates are expounding nothing but
Hie unlovely rumpus in their own camp.
Says Mr. “ Inclement ” Wragge, lecturing
at Moe (Vic.)
Yass-Oanberra is an absurd locality for the Federal
capital. Rather should the capital be in the Snowy
Ranges, where the bracing- atmosphere and a pure water
supply would breed a race of gritty statesmen.
On the other hand. The Bulletin doesn’t know
a place where a Parliament would be grittier
than at Yassberra —unless it is Menindie or Poon-
carie. And even at Menindie and Pooncane
there is sometimes a river where members could
have a bath.
TOO INDEFINITE.
According to the Times the Fisher Ministry has shown
a disposition to relegate the two transcontinental rail-
way proposals to an undated future. — Cable.
AUSTRALIA: “ That's no use to me, old man,
unless you date it."
The dead-heat in the Senate on the Yass-
berra vote ought to knock the bottom out
of the Sydney press yarn that opposition to
the proposed dust-heap capital is a “ Victorian
conspiracy.” Of the 18 Senators who either voted
or paired against the dust-heap, only four were
Victorians.
Premier Wade, in his present extremity,
is more heavily handicapped for an election battle
than even Joseph Carruthers was at the close of
his political days. With practically all his
Ministers fighting for their own lives in scattered
positions, Wade is left with Jock Garland as a
lieutenant to conduct the campaign—commander-
in-chief, leader of forlorn hopes, ambulance,
brigade, scout, sentry, manufacturer of ammuni-
tion and the only man available for V.O. expe-
ditions. Garland, as lieutenant or orderly, was an
unhappy choice. Few men on the “ Liberal ” side
or any other side have been so consistently beaten
at the polls. Still, there was nobody else for the
job. Perhaps Nobody Else would have done as
well. The Tory press, growing more anxious day
by day, has been hollering for Carruthers,
Ashton and others to rush in and lend a hand ;
but so far a dead silence has been the only answer.
Carruthers and Ashton have heard the banshee.
Melbourne Argus made these unimpeach-
able observations the other day :
During the last two decades there has been a tremen-
dous aggregation in city populations all over the world.
The farms have been drained of young and enterprising
people, who prefer city to country occupations. In the
increasing world demand for farm products lies Austra-
lia’s opportunity. More men on the land, and improved
methods of farming mean increased prosperity for all—
We could double and treble the output, and the world s
markets would take it, at prices which would afford
attractive profits. . . . We cannot take full advantage of
it unless more people go on the land.
Yet, when it is proposed to make farm life more
attractive by improving the wages and conditions,
the first yell tobreak the calm comes from the same
Argus office. And when a tax is proposed to
smash up the big estates and make more farms,
the Argus curses the proposal to the utmost limit
of its vocabulary.
How the N.S.W. political situation has
changed is evidenced by the daily-paper list of
candidates. Of the 90 seats, the “ Great Liberal
Party” is allowing no less than 10 to go by
default, and in eight others outside Liberals are
splitting the vote. Labor, on the other ha.nd, is
fighting every seat, and in only four cases is the
vote being split, and of these two are seats that
have been abandoned by the Liberals. Labor isn’t
merely the defending party nowadays, with all its
work cut out to save its face and hang on till the
call of time. It is the attacking party in this
fight—which explains the anguished cries of the
Tory crowd. That crowd hasn’t been used to
being hit; it has only been used to hitting.
From the Man in the Corner
He was large, well dressed and affluent, and he dis-
cussed the political situation with a thin-faced, narrow-
lipped friend in a frock coat.
“My objection to Mr. Wade,” he said solemnly, ‘is
that he has the art of rousing the other side to do things.
Why, he is worse than an army corps of ‘ walking dele-
gates,’ or whatever they call these fellows who go round
canvassing for the unions ”
“ Organisers !”- chipped in the thin-lipped man.
“ Yes—worse than a dozen organisers. Look how the
unions have been forming since he’s been Premier!
Every clerk in my office is a unionist now, although they
all deny it. My cook’s a unionist. Everybody’s a
unionist. The curse has spread like an epidemic since
this man’s been in charge. Now I hear the fellows who
draw the pictures for the advertisements are forming a
union. What use is it having a man that stirs up trouble
like that for a Premier ? It makes me that disgusted I feel
like clearing out ; it’s all so hopeless. If you vote for
Wade, the thing will go ahead worse than ever; if you
don’t vote for him, the other party gets on top ; and I’m
d—d if I know whether to vote or not.”
Verran, Premier of S.A., is honest,as we
as plain. Last week he was congratulating toe
local Chamber of Manufactures on its work. rs
is a great thing,” he remarked casually,
justify your existence. I know my Government
is having a beggar of a job to do it! ”
John the Reformed wants to suppress
Melbourne’s faint imitation of a rational Sunday.
He has circulated a Bill which provides that
“any person receiving, collecting or demandi g
from any visitor any money or ticket in token ior
which nioney has been paid or is payable, or *J
person paying money for entertainments on bo -
day,” is liable to a fine of £5O. Church services
or other religious performances are excepted, ana
power is retained to prevent the Bill applying to
entertainments that the Chief Sec. honors wi
approval. One effect of this measure will be that
shows which supply cheap, clean amusement wm
out up their shutters. Another effect will be that
many vivacious young patrons will be forced to
hunt for other diversions, and the diversions they
will find probably won’t have the approval ot
Master Willie Judkins.
The Wade crowd and the N.S.W. Fat
papers have a pretty tough contract on lian P’S
now. In one breath they have to prove that the
Wade Government looked after the interests Of
the selector by preventing the big landlord getting
the unearned increment arising from the puDi c
work at Barren Jack irrigation reservoir ; and in
the next they have to prove that the Labor par y
is a robber and a confiscator for trying to preven
the big landlord getting the unearned incr eme ™
arising from the public work at a thousand
other places. Wade says he is going to take the
land benefited by the Barren Jack work at its
value before the work was decided on ; m otner
words, he is going to confiscate all the value
added subsequently, and he wants the selectors
to therefore say “Whoop!” and sing
Jolly Good Fellow.” But when the Labor party
seeks to do exactly the same thing in a genera
way, but on a modified scale, Wade wants! tne
same selectors to cry “Thief!”. Which shows-
over again what an honest politician Wade is.
LABOR’S TROUBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What has the Opposition to complain of ? Mr. Wade
has filled the Statute Book with Labor legislation.—
Favorite “ Liberal ” argument.
A Superannuation Fund he’s planned
That’s damned by ev’ry expert in the land ;
A scheme whereby the lorn,
Lone railway man is torn
From all the surplus cash he has in hand,
While his hopes of getting back
His money from the wrack
Are of-a most emaciated brand.
Wade’s started to decentralise the State,
Perceiving that this question cannot wait.
That is, a Board (of sorts)
Is visiting those ports
Which, erstwhile, have been coldly left to Fate.
They’ve starved for years and years,
And now the epoch nears
When they’ll be promised things, at any rate.
The clerks have got a kind of Wages Board
(The measure which Wade utterly abhorred
A month or two ago).
And yet they fail to glow
With gratitude. They do not feel they’ve scored ;
Their screws remain the same —
Or so, at least, they claim.
Whereat they curse—a fact to be deplored.
A hundred other cases of the spread
Of Labor ideals ’mid the crowd that’s led
By Wade might be set down.
But where’s the use? Each town
And country man with brains inside his head
Quite clearly understands
In Lib’ralism’s hands
The best-laid schemes of Labor fall down dead.
N.S.W.
M. SAFRAN.


9<§> A
(Sleg 1 ? Brand)
iSehd Tor
Ekmiyts.
C®©l §5
Obtainable
Only from
MELBeURfIE, S.£.
5^
*
<o
THE RING
OF PIANOS
wrWithotit an Equal Without a Rival"*
NICHOLSON s CO.
LIMITED
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOR PIANOS
*
hr
342 George Street, Sydney
and at Newcastle.
A
V
The man who
lubricates with
Vacuum Oils is
Master of his en-
gine-room expenses,
repairs and worries.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre®
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for* the Complexion*


RHLUD’S
KALYDOR
FOR - Sim
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
A man’s way and a lad’s fvay,
And a way that’s,within call;
A maid’s way and a wife’s way,
And a way that’s safe and sure
Is to take at once for coughs and colds
Woods’ Famous Peppermint Cure.*
THIS WILL INTEREST MOTHERS.
Chamberlain's Tablets are the ideal medicine
for children. No more nasty medicines that you
have to coax the child to take. After they have
once taken Chamberlain’s Tablets, and realise
how easy they are to take, they will be ready for
them again. They are perfectly safe for the
youngest child, and their use will not result m
constipation.* /
L
RESCN’S SELECT
&
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
J Bkkwkrt 'and Offices :
Dowling {street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Goulburn-to-Sydney cycle road race, on
Saturday, aroused more interest than usual this year,
which is saying a good deal. No less than 10 riders blew
over from Maoriland to take part in it, with an eye on
the big Warrnambool event later on. Victoria also sent
a contingent, and South Aus. was represented by one man.
Among the riders was one who, two years ago, had both
hands amputated, and who steered his machine by
pressing his wrists against the handle-bars. This intrepid
rider actually negotiated the dreaded Razorback, and got
through the contract uninjured. The Razorback is a
horrible piece of road, and it wasdown this declivity that
Humm, the Maorilander, was rushing into Camden when
he struck a stone and was thrown heavily. When picked
up he was unconscious and was taken to Camden Hospital,
where he was found to be suffering from slight concussion.
Of the 145 nominators 111 started, and 42 completed the
131 miles under eight hours. Another remarkable thing
about the contest was that one of the riders hailed from
Canberra. Although wind and heavy rain had swept
over the road the night before, it was in splendid order,
and the weather on the day of the race was charming ; so
that all things pointed to some fast times. The outstand-
ing feature of the run was the utter failure of the back-
markers, who, instead of makingup on the middle-markers,
actually lost time. Which is a smack at the handicapping.
The Dunlop Rubber Co., which promoted the race, was in
a state of ecstatic delight, as the first seven men all rode
Dunlop tyres, and the co. professes to see therein a link
between the milk and the cocoanut. Downie (N.S.W.)
made a fearsome struggle for the first place, and for 100
miles tore along at the rate of 21J miles an hour, only to
he beaten 30 miles from home. The first and second men
were two Victorians, D. Kirkham and J. W. Wilson.
Kirkham was on the 26min. mark, and Wilson was close up
to the limit with 41 minutes’ start. These two bowled
along steadily, letting the others make the pace, till
about 22 miles from home. Then they went ahead, and,
pacing one another till Ashfield was in sight, raced for
tiie winning line, where Kirkham arrived first. It was
near Liverpool they overtook and passed Downie,
who was running alone. Kirkham beat Wilson
by 20yds. Downie was third, smin. 40sec. be-
hind the second, and dead-dog tired. This is
the second year the race has gone to a Victorian. The
most unsatisfactory part of the business is that Kirkham,
who received 26min. start, actually won the fastest-time
prize, running over the course in 6h. 47min. 435e0., or
12min. 43sec. inside the record for the race put up by
Tom Larcombe. And a man like that should not get
26min. advantage over men who are only equal to him-
self, if not inferior, as regards speed and endurance.
* * * *
Eight mad airmen determined to race from
Brieg, in Switzerland, to some place in France, to reach
which they had to soar over the Simplon Pass, in the
Alps, at a height of 7000 ft. When Monday arrived a bad
wind was blowing', and six retired; but two, Chavez and
Weymann, who were apparently quite mad, made a
start, and their friends wept for them as already dead.
They didn’t die, but returned to the place from whence
they had set out, and reported that, although they
reached an altitude of 7000 ft. all right, the clouds ob-
scured the course, and the gusty wind made the passage
too dangerous for even them. So they retired also.
* * * *
The newest of the Zeppelin dirigibles has gone
up in smoke and flame, and intending passengers across
the Atlantic got a nice hint of what risks they run in the
fact that the whole burning, from the first spark till the
flames died out, occupied only 19 minutes. Could any-
thing be more horribly sudden? How the thing came to
ignite is not very clear ; but the latest account indicates
that an electric spark had something to do with it.
Zeppelin has been unusually unfortunate with his dirig-
ibles, and an impression is growing that his type of
machine is too costly and too short-lived to be of any
practical value.
From Umtali, in the innards of Africa : The
World’s sculling championship, 3i miles, was rowed to-
day (August 18), in magnificent weather, on the Zambesi.
There was a slight head wind, but the surface of the
water left nothing to be desired. There was no doubt
about Arnst and Barry being fit for the contest; both
had been up here several weeks, putting' in excellent
work. If anything, Arnst had trained a trifle light; but
the subsequent result proved him none the worse for
that. Barry’s style at practice has been greatly
admired, and, naturally, he had a good follow-
ing. But what a power Arnst has ! The two men
got off to a good start. Arnst shot his boat out,
and the wash somewhat incommoded Barry; but it
wasn’t many seconds before both scullers were well at
their work. Barry pulled a slightly longer stroke than
Arnst, but they kept together until half the distance had
been covered, when Arnst took the lead and kept it.
About 20 lengths from home Barry put on a spurt and
tried to get on level terms, but broke down ; and Arnst,
continuing in magnificent style, passed the post an easy
winner. There was a very fair attendance, considering
the contest was held on the fringe of civilisation, and
both contestants had a splendid reception on leaving the
water.
The winter battle came to an end in Sydney on
Saturday ; and the brawny figure of Newtown suburb
sprawls over all, champion in both League and Union
divisions. The Soccer Metropolitan championship
went to Ultimo, and in the Australian Rules division
Balmain annexed the Association championship.
The League final was a grim game with an
exciting finish. The spectators declared themselves
disappointed ; but the trouble was not that the game
was uninteresting : it was not spectacular ! But
it was football. Almost evenly matched as they were,
both teams knew it would be the field goals that would
decide the day, and in the first half South kicked two of
them and started the second half with four points to the
good. Later on, Newtown became frantic, for in the
fading sunlight it could see the championship slipping
away. But right through its madness there was a perfect
order, and suddenly a free kick right in front of the
South’s goal gave Newtown its first chance. Over soared
the ball, and then with time running out horribly fast
it set to work to bullock through a try, and
win out by at least one point. With only five
minutes to go Newtown found itself still two points
behind a draw, and a draw was as good as a victory to
the club with one competition point to the good. And
South was just as eager. With a sudden rush the
Southern pack swept down into the Newtown country,
full charge for the goal. Then W. Farnsworth, of New-
town, swooped, caught the ball, and started for the other
end. Hands closed on him ; he twisted himself loose,
and sped away to South Sydney territory. The full hack
awaited him grimly, and while he waited two men took up
positions behind him. There was a sudden rush, a pass,
a knock on. Then a scrum, and Newtown’s heart sank ; and
a Southman coining round kicked hard to send it clear.
“Mark ! ” shout d Hayes, of Newtown,drivinghis heel into
the turf. And Newtown, looking at the almost impossible
angle, accused Providence of having plaj’ed it a scurvy
trick. Russell, the captain, took the kick, and as the
ball soared on its w r ay 15,000 people held their breath.
As it suddenly faltered a sudden gust of wind caught it,
gave it a helping heave, and it curved downward between
the posts, just clearing the bar. Newtown had made a
drawn game and saved the premiership, and the wind
had literally blown South Sydney’s chances away.
* * * *
The Newtown Union crowd, although closely
pursued by South Sydney, made a wonderful run through
the season, getting to the end without sustaining one
defeat. The only time the club failed to win was when
it drew with South Sydney, with six points each. Not
since 1891, when University won 10 matches and drew
one, has such a record been put up. But so low has
Union Rugby sunken in public estimation that this fine
team, playing its final match, could draw only 2000
people to Sydney Cricket Ground. The opponent on
Saturday was Glebe, and it had no show against the
champion team. It was stamped flat and put through
the mill by 14 points to five.
* * * *
Saturday in Melbourne was South’s day out,
the prologue to the League semi-final being the collision
of Leopold and Carlton District in the Metropolitan Ass.
final. Leopold is practically South Juniors, and when
the preliminary terminated in the smashing of Carlton
Juniors, the red-and-white barrackers forecasted a sure
victory for their senior pets. The victory transpired all
right. But it wasn’t the sort of thing to go gay about.
Just before the game started Carlton’s committee heard
rumors, and decided that three joints of the team’s
backbone would be the better for a rest. The three sub-
stitutes, though willing, weren’t up to standard;
also, at least three others were passengers.
Some of the Old Blues bogged in, " but the
concerted play that had beaten so many good teams
was lacking, and their lop-sided kicking was disgraceful.
All the while Skinner’s hirelings were bogging in, and
their accurate shooting kept them well in the lead. Yet
ever there was the thought that the Carlton 18, playing
as usual, would have made hacks of the others. At half-
time the score was: South, 5 goals 2 behinds ; Carlton,
2 goals 11 behinds—a discrepancy in aiming that wants
accounting for. On resuming, those of the Blues who
were playing, plunged around with more energy than
ever, and slowly overhauled the Southerners ; but before
the bell rang South had put on three more, running out
winners by 12 points—lo goals 5 behinds to 6 goals
17 behinds. Next Saturday Souths collide with ’Wood,
and on the recent play the latter must win. Fine
weather brought a crowd of 42,600, worth £1503.
* * * *
Simultaneously the first semi-final of the Ass.,
between Essendon and P’ran, on the North Melbourne
ground, brought 15,000, who parted £275, and got little
joy for their sixpences. The play was genuine enough,
but P’ran, after leading with the help of the wind in the
first quarter, tailed hopelessly for the rest of the after-
noon, and finally passed out with a tally of 19 to 39.
* * * *
Queensland’s September summer sun gave a
warning, so the League extended itself and finished its
premiership final in a hurry. The bit of silver which
occasioned the argument would, in fact, have been
annexed earlier, only the two leading clubs were incon-
siderate enough to draw. Consequently the bauble had
again to be put up, and now' Ipswich will have the privi-
lege of carting it to the city of Athens and putting it in
a barber’s window for a year. The game was a good one,
bubbling with open and sparkling play. In the first half
Toombul had an advantage, but the bigger man with a
bigger foot made himself felt, and cleverness failed
against avoirdupois. It was the old story of the good
little man up against the good big man. Score, 17 to
two. Some of the Athenians had just returned from
Sydney, where their Cambrian choir had appropriated
the honors ; so they are a versatile crowd.
★ -k * -k
The small-boy barracker rails against the secre-
tary of one or other of the Melbourne football clubs :
“ We’ve done with him. Out he goes on ’is block next
yer. The idear ! Only givin’ the blokes twelve-and-
sixpence a week to play footy all the season ! Re-
dicklos, I reckon. Anyhow, he had to shell out a bit
lately. The boys saw' ’im about how it was, and since
then they’ve bin gettin’ three quid a week ; so they’ve
’ad a bit of heart to play the last few weeks. Lots of
members is full of the bloke, and got up a pertition, an’
’is name’s Mud for next year. But his troubles! He’s
bin buildin’ houses all over the place. Houses ! And
them gettin’ twelve-an’-six. Yah ! ”
* * * *
Billiardist George Gray, at latest dates, was
practising his deadly hazard stroke for eight hours a day
(with occasional intermissions of “ all-round ” play) in
the north of England. Probably he will make his first
public appearance in the Cold Country next month at
Leeds, and, if he achieves a sensational break as soon as he
gets fairly going, he will certainly be booked for London
after Christmas. The idea is to have him starred on his
performances in England before he tackles the leading
billiard showmen in ‘ the Big Smoke. Meanwhile the
Australian expectation of young Gray’s immediate de-
feat of the best men has been considerably discounted
by the recent performances of John Roberts, and the
vastly-improved “ form ” of A. E. Williams. Roberts, it
must be admitted, has shown a complete mastery over
Lindrum. In Sydney he won six games of 3000 up, giving
500 start; in Melbourne he won three successive battles
of 6000, giving 1000 start, and his final victory was the
most brilliant of the series. In the afternoon “session ”
on the last day the “old man’s” average was 250 points
per innings. Lindrum, it seems, thought that Roberts’
“ starring ” terms were not justified by the results of
the two long games they played at first, and
he declined to engage himself for the Westralian tour
which begins this week. Thereupon Roberts settled
down to show his young friend that there was “ only one
in it ” as an exponent of skill and tactics. The balls were
never “ safe ” where he was concerned, but he often left
them “safe” for Lindrum. Williams, too, has struck
“ form ” which, in the opinion of experts, would make
him the favorite if he were matched against Lindrum,
who beat him so easily a few months ago. Now, it was
against Lindrum that boy Gray put up his remarkable
performances in exhibition games, in which the Australian
“ all-round ” champion made little or no attempt to out-
general the lad. Gray had many more openings for his
losing-hazard play than he could hope for if he were
pitted against Roberts, Stevenson or other of the English
top-notchers. But he will get there, sooner or later.
* * * *
One little finger broken and the third finger
crushed, face damaged and eye blackened, knee bruised
and shin cut, hoot saturated with hlood, mouth cut,
shin cut through shin-pad. These casualties weren’t
acquired in a football or lacrosse match, nor yet in a
wrestling bout or a prize.fight, but in a friendly game of
hockey between the YVaratah and Thistle clubs of Broken
Hill, the players being ardent damsels'intent on victory.
Altogether three Warat ih and 10 Thistle girls left some
of their gore on the field of friendliness.
* * * *
The inuch-discussed Jeffries-Johnson pictures
have been exhibited in both ’Frisco and London. In
’Frisco “Tex’’Rickard has been arrested and admitted
to bail on a charge of having shown prohibited films ;but
in London a worse fate hit the proprietors. Nobody took
legal action against them, but the Times remarked,
wearily, that they represented a very dull fight, and any-
body demoralised by seeing them would lose all his
morality if he saw a cab accident. The Law has no
terrors like that.
* * * *
Sydney Stadium will throw off its winter
mantle and blossom out into gay and festive stoush
on the 28th inst. The opening bout will be between
Johnny Summers and Hughie Meeghan. Later on,
Summers will bump Arthur Douglas, and by that time
“Cyclone” Thompson, Billy Papke, Ray Bronson and
Jimmy Clabby, all bright stars of the U.S., will have
arrived and be in the way of shaking things up.
* * * *
The Mclntosh is in England looking for a white
champion to slay Johnson, and at present he has
a glimmering that he has found a man in “Bom-
bardier ” Wells. This youngster is said to be a very
promising institution, and to give him every chance
the Mclntosh has taken him in hand for six months,
which period will be spent in a systematic effort to make
him capable of eating up the gentleman with the gold-lined
mouth.
* * * ”
Jeffries has started to make excuses, and the
result is that the flood-gates have been opened and the
fountains of the great deep broken up. Nobody on earth
can talk like these Yankee stoush-champions once they
get going. It is a mercy to mankind they cannot fight
as well as they talk, or the earth would be a Yankee
dependency.
* * * *
The N.S.W. bowling team, that went north
recently', struck trouble in Brisbane, where it lost the
rubber to Queensland. It was a good team, but it was
not the pick of N.S.W., owing to the champions being
unable to get away. And on its own greens the Brisbane
crowd is a tough one indeed, against which the Ma
State’s best would have to play all they'know. N.S.W.
scored the first blood in a 92-points-to-81 victory. The
second saw N.S.W. overwhelmed by 100 to 65, and the
final, which was to decide the issue, was a strenuous
battle, in which everything was possible. Victory swung
this way and that, and finally rested on Queensland by
the narrow margin of one point.
* * * *
After wasting much language and temper, the
N.S.W. Bowling Assoc, has thrown all its bowl-testing
troubles on to the broad shoulders of Alcock and Co.
This bowl-testing business has distracted half the
brightest intellects in thebowl-test.ing world, and Sydney
is lumbered over with patent machines which were said
to do the trick with cleanliness and civility, or some-
thing like that. It is a difficult subject, and the
N.S.W.B.A. gives it up in despair.
* * * *
What is happening as regards the N.S.W.
Lawn Tennis Assoc, no man knoweth. Members are as
loud-mouthed as oysters and know nothing. And till
they choose to speak we will know no more. Seems more
than likely that Australia’s possession of the Davis Cup
will not be challenged this year, and that neither
English nor Yankees will try to wrest it from us.
* * * *
What an octopus the Melbourne Cricket Club
has become was revealed in the annual balance-sheet.
The .year’s takings were £12,955, of which £11,910 came
from subscriptions and entrance fees, and was about
£3OOO more than the same takings for the previous year.
The membership had increased by 567, which brought it
up to 5353. When figures like these get abroad no won-
der visiting sporting bodies demand guarantees and scoff
at talk of percentages of the gate.
* * * *
Victorian Cricket Ass. is giving T. S. Warne a
benefit during the season. It will probably take the
form of a match between Australia and “The Rest.”
And Warne will rest on the takings. Warne made his
great splash in 1898 by scoring 402 in the Carlton-Rich-
mond struggle, and in 1899 he appeared in the State
team.
* * * *
Rupert Clarke doubtless heaved his tile aloft
the other day, when Canteen, the gee-gee he gave 3000
guineas for, brought him a final 90 without having
gathered in a race in the meantime. Still, the bart. will
no doubt find solace in the fact that his loss saved some-
one else who was less able to stand the shock.
*■ * * *
This will be the jubilee year of the Melbourne
Cup. Ettie De Mestre’s Archer won the first race, with
Johnny Cut.ts in the saddle, and the same horse won
again the next year, with the same jockey up. Mr. De
Mestre still lives, his home being at Moss Vale (N.S. W.).
The most sensational “Cup” was perhaps Assyrian’s
(1882), when Thomas Reibey’s Stockwell lost by a nose.
When the numbers went up John Tait and Reibey were
standing under one umbrella (the race was run-in. a
heavy shower) and John Tait’s emphatic opinion, ex-
pressed to Reibey on the spot, was that Stockwell had
won.
Papua is becoming civilised. Port Moresby
had its first race-meeting on September 1. The spectacle
of some of the supposed black Jews of Papua wearing
check loincloths and shouting the odds through their
noses may yet be seen.
English amateur swimmers are complaining
that, under existing conditions, visitors like Beaurepaire
are almost certain to beat the local men and annex the
championships. The reason given is that the visitor
comes to swim and swim only. For the time being, that
is his business, and when he is not swimming he
is training. They suggest that, to equalise things,
the swimmers who are to defend the local cham-
pionships should be taken care of and kept by
the Swimming Association for some months beforehand.
They argue that a man who has to look after his business
and swim in his off-time cannot be a match for the
swimmer who has been relieved of all business cares, and
is free to devote all his time and energy to the task of
becoming a champion. And there is a mighty lot in it.
But the swimming people are not likely to adopt the
suggestion, all the same. It would be regarded as'
“ yeiled professionalism.” *
A field of some 26ffatlilet;es faced the barrier at
Caulfield Racecourse (Melb.) on Saturday to contest the 10
miles cross-country championship of Victoria. The event
has happened thereabouts, annually, during the past 19
years; and,; though the field is invariably bulky, the
peds with any sort of a chance can usually be boiled/
down to hall a dozen. Some Weeks ago present writer
mq.de a gladinoise about Frank Kerr, the 'Varsity athlete.
On Saturday Kerr looked all over a winner at the last
juinp, and actually drew away from the select bunch—
Luton (Queensland), and Lister and Richardson (Ballarat).
But his sprint was a trifle early, and he failed to sustain
it., The gritty Bananalander, fighting every inch of the
wajy, drew level with Kerr 50yds. from the tape, and beat
him home by about syds.—the closest race ever seen on
the course. Lister beat Richardson for third place. The
course w'as in excellent condition, despite recent heavy
wettings, and a fresh breeze assisted the runners to the
halfway post at Oakleigh. ■>
The champions of former days—Tom Blake,
Charlie Herbert, Charlie Bennett, Bill Cumming and
George Blake —were truly giants of their time. They
never waited with the bunch, but simply shut their teeth
like bulldogs, and raced and raced until they shook the
pack off, and then galloped home winners with a mile up
their sleeves —so to speak. On the other hand, Alek
Stillwell, who won in 1901-2-3, was possessed of a
phenomenal turn of speed which enabled him to let the
otfier fellow do the donkey-work, and then come away
at the finish. Saturday’s event proved conclusively that
the men were of an even calibre, and the time, 60min.
Bsec., W'as nothing to howl about.
•V, * ■ * * *
Ranji has managed to arrange another summer
in England, in spite of the broad hint he got from the
British Government last year that he had better stick to
his own kingdom if he wants to go on being its ruler.
There is to be an Indian Eleven next year, with him as
its captain. It promises to have at least three quite front-
rank hats, and as many bbwlers, with good general sup-
port, and it will take on each of the counties separately.
The V. A.T.C. recently threw out its chest and
lifted up its voice to the effect that since it began, in
1875, it has handed over £542,955 in prize-money. Last
year the swag was £30,050. The assets are said to over-
whelm the liabilities by £21,000. Yet apparently the
club is not satisfied, for it has decided to crack on six-
pence to all admission charges to Caulfield. . Or perhaps
it dreams that the increase in quality justifies the
upward move in price. Or it may be that it knows its
public— for an ass.
“Quan”: The Austrian Archduke John,
alias John Orth (B. 1/9/To)', may be dead, hut
Captain Lecointe, commander of the Antarctic
expedition ship Belgica, doesn’t think so. He
says that on his return from the Polar regions he
left the Belgica at Santa Cruz and went to Lake
Leone, in the disputed area between Chili and
the Argentine. There, nearly 300 miles from any
human habitation, he dropped across a hermit
who spoke English, French, German and Russian
fluently. His only companions were a few dogs
and horses. Lecointe stayed with him a week
and took his photograph, which, however, he says
he has since lost. When the Austrian Courts were
recently asked to declare John Orth a corpse the
Brussels newspaper, Derniere Heure, published
his photo, and Lecointe told a representative of
the journal that he was certain that it was a
picture of the man he had put in a week with in
the South American wilderness.
Freetrade, after all, is of some use to
England—you can import 9000-year-old mummies
without having to pay duty on them. This
magnificent fact in favor of Cobdenism was
recently discovered by the Egyptologist who
brought an ancient corpse from the Nile to the
Thames ; and it is being hooted across the Channel
at the French, who recently collected duty on a
withered Pharaoh under the heading “dried fish.”
The tariff list did not mention dead Pharaohs;
so Jules, of the Custom House, classified it on the
highest scale, and held out his hand for the
francs. J. Bull thinks it a great joke. What is
the use of haying duties and industries and jobs
for everybne, he asks in effect, if you have to
regard the dead body of a foreigner as dried fish,
and pay a few shillings on it before you can put
it in a museum for your unemployed workers to
grin at ?
The Yic. State Governor is kept busy
these times opening Art shows. Sometimes the
Art is allied \yith Craft ; but, as a rule, the show
that pleads for the patronage of Carmichael and
the assistance of the press is Art straight.. The
presence of a little soul among the Art is the
exception, not the rule, and, anyhow, these
eternal offerings of individual exhibitions to
view, private view and public view have
come to be an infliction on the few people—
always the same few people—who are expected to
be grateful for the offerings. Next month there
will be an exhibition of pictures in Melbourne by
the Yic. Artists’ Society, including works by
Australian artists abroad, and this should have
been welcomed by the public as a chance to see at
one fell swoop all thp recent Victorian Art
that is worth seeing. But it will be merely one
in 30 or more lots of pictures hung up for press
view, private view and public view since Christ-
mas. This year’s epidemic of Art has been
horribly severe. Every artist has been a star
unto himself 'or herself, and has presumed to
shine in solitary luminosity. One would think
that Melbourne was full of distinguished painters
and sculptors, and that the limited art-loving
picture-buyers had unlimited leisure for inspect-
ing the latest masterpieces. If the press were to
discourage the egotism of studiosyncrasy by
taking no notice of these monotonous exhibitions,
they would soon dry up, and the interest in large,
periodical picture shows would have a healthy
growth.
Phillips, the man who was last week found
guilty of the shuddersomely-brutal murder of his
own little daughter at Willoughby (Sydney) and
sentenced to death, was the coolest customer any
N.S.W. court has had to handle for many a year.
In fact, he was. morp than cool—he was several
hundred degrees below zero. Even when the
jury returned to deliver its verdict he didn’t
begin to thaw—he just went on being a frozen,
unemotional mass, wrapped in a coat that had to
be.dragged together with a bit of twine. Asked the
usual question whether he had anything to say why
sentence of death should not be passed, he replied
promptly and briefly that he hadn’t. When he
had been informed that on a day to be appointed
by the Governor he would be hanged by the neck
till he was dead, he jerked out “ Thank you ! ”
seized his hat and dived down the steps with the
warders, showing about as much emotion as if he
had been asked out to a drink. People who watched
him agreed it was better he should go. That ice-
house calm of his gets on the nerves.
“Gideon”: In the Wellington (M.L.)
Times (27/8/TO) Frank Morton, poet and virtuoso
in shoe-ribbons, contributes an article entitled.
“Is There a Maoriland Type?” He finds there
is—strongly marked, presenting notable charac-
teristics and pervading the community. One
slab: —
The Maorilander is only superficially humorous. All
subtleties escape him. He is often rollicking and gay,
but very seldom witty. On the side of art, he is so far
undeveloped. He likes twaddling drama, foetid or futile
farce, tinkling music, pictures that simper and leer. He
is much more anxious to harden his muscles than to
develop his mind. He is a frantic devotee of the minor
interests.... He is proud of his smartness, but there
are few men so easily fooled. In the course of years he
becomes twisted by the constant efforts to scratch his
own back. In short, the Maoriland type is still rudimen-
tary. It hibernates too much, and when it awakes it
crows too lustily.
There speaks the virtuoso in shoe-ribbons. But
hear the poet: —
He [the Maorilander] really believes, deep down in his
soul, that for him suns rise and dews fall, that for him
morning dawns and evening ripens gladly into dusk, that
for him the planets wheel and the great stars spin on
their appointed courses.
Finally, Morton : “ Humor your typical Maori-
lander, and you will find him an honest and
comradely chap enough.” Nothing could be
more Frank.


nu
SHOE TfllK
Can you afford to purchase
shoes made by machinery that is
no longer up-to-date—that pays
a tax to The Shoe Machinery
Trust of Thousands of Pounds
a Tear in Royalties—and which,
in addition, wastes an equal
amount in materials through ob-
solete methods that are necessary
to operate same ?
fl The Marshall Shoe Company has
displaced all the old and antiquated Machinery
of the Trust, and has installed in its place, a
complete line of the New Non-Royalty
Shoe Machinery —which it owns outright
and pays no Royalties on whatsoever.
*1 The saving effected on Men’s Welted"
Shoes alone by the use of this Non-Royalty
Machinery, approximates in our Factory £5,000
a. year over what was possible by the use of
the antiquated machinery and methods of the
Trust.
*1 This great saving enables the Marshall
Shoe Company to give to its Customers—the
wearers—Values and Styles that cannot be
duplicated by any other shoe manufacturers.
*1 Can any live, progressive Shoe Retailer afford
to overlook the advantages we thus have
over our Competitors ? If your dealer do£s,
write us direct for Style Book and instruct ions
how to order.
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in Stock.
If yours don't, write and we will send you
address of the nearest Dealer , with Catalog.
MARSHALL SHOE CO.,
:: :: MAKERS OF MEN’S FINE SHOES, :: ::
RICHMOND, VIC.
Confomat” Hard Hat
REGD.
‘‘THE ACME OF COMFORT.”
T sneoili e « t / r ridel de HARa HAT ' hand-made in a
* forms r n fh f L O, V" e '' hoicest materials ; con-
able and “asv filv head ' making it most comfort-
shadedhend even " hen new, and fits any
snaped head. Exceptionally %ht, very durable
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED. ’
r „.u Price 13/6.
I rMist" u * ‘‘•^Try^one^
Trade Mark “ Confomat „ ?r ® nuine besfc with the
“~^«a*S!ssr-
“TSsL&lzs*-
Missing Friends.
W i er^ bon i M of GEORGE ROBIN-
oUIN, wno left. P orbes for Queensland about, picrhf
years ago. Address John Robinson. Solicitor, Forbesf
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H P £,500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
“ mHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
JL he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
it tmffected by climatic conditions.
That’s another point I
" Anont Copt. Scmtt'r Sooth Palo EmoJSHtm
thm " Motor,” 20/61 10, Maya —
‘•ln this expedition of Captain Soolt’a, ‘Shell’
motor epirit hu been selected. The intrusts
eslue of thie order may not be BO eery great
bnt when one remembers the momentone n-
eponeibility thna thrown on to ordinary cans of
’Shell,' the confidence and good opinion of the
e. lectors is better expressed than any uonla
BATHURST
K
BRAND.
ASPARAGUS.
K STANDARD QUALITY, 6s. per
case of 12 bundles
SPECIALLY SELECTED, 12s. per
case of 12 bundles.
Orders received at 137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
I WALES. MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDIC-
TION. No. 7403.
Between EMMA MAY SEERY, Petitioner, and TIMOTHY
SEERY, Respondent.
To TIMOTHY SEERY, late of Toogood Street, Erskine-
ville, in the State of New South Wales, quarry man,
but now address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMMA MAY SEERY has
commenced a suit against you in this Honorable Court
and is applying for a dissolution of her marriage on the
grounds of your having without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during a period
of three years and upwards. And take notice that
you are required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court on or before
the first day of December 1910. And in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned free of charge. Dated the
seventh day of September 1910.
H. HARDY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
58 Royal Arcade, Pitt Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar, JOHN GEO. LEARY (L.S.),
Chief Clerk.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
X PROBATE JURISDICTION.
IN THE WILL of JAMES ARMSTRONG, late of Mut-
tama in the State of New South Wales grazier
deceased.
TO ROBERT ARMSTRONG brother of the above-
named deceased formerly of Ardnatinney Omagh
County of Tyrone Ireland, last heard of at Muttama
aforesaid in the year 1892.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that in accordance with
the directions of the Honorable PHILIP WHISTLER
STREET Judge in Probate made herein on the twelfth
day of September One thousand nine hundred and ten the
said Robert Armstrong one of the legatees under the Will
of above-named deceased is required to communicate with
SAMUEL HIGHFIELD DICKSON and WILLIAM LITTLE
the executors of the Will of the above-named James Arm-
strong care of the Undersigned on or before the Fourteenth
day of November next and NOTICE IS FURTHER OIVEN
that in the event of the said Robert Armstrong failing to
communicate with the said executors in the manner and
at the time aforesaid the assets now remaining in the
hands of the said executors will be distributed on the
assumption that the said Robert Armstrong predeceased
the said James Armstrong AND NOTICE IS FURTHER
GIVEN that all persons having any knowledge of or
having been in Communication with the said Robert Arm-
strong since the year one thousaad eight hundred and
ninety-two or having any knowledge of the date or place
of his death are hereby requested to communicate such
information to the said executors care of the undersigned
forthwith.
MORGAN and MORGAN, Solicitors for the Executors
of the said James Armstrong, Central Chambers, Parker
Street, Cootamundra.
By SLY and RUSSELL, 369 George Street, Sydney.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
LAW REPORT.
(Before the Chief Justice, without a jury.)
FAIRFAX AND OTHERS v. BULLETIN NEWS-
PAPER COMPANY, LTD.
Mr. Broomfield and Mr. D. G. Ferguson, instructed by
Messrs. Cape, Kent and Gaden, appeared for the plain-
tiffs ; and Mr. Shand, K.C., and Mr. Sheridan, instructed
by Messrs. Laurence and Laurence, for the defendants.
This was an action for libel, and it had been agreed be-
tween the parties that it should be settled and heard
before his'Honor without a jury.
Mr. Broomfield handed to his Honor a copy of the
following terms of settlement:—
1. Verdict for the £52 10s. paid into court.
2. Costs on highest scale, to be taxed as between
solicitor and client by way of indemnity.
3. One of plaintiffs to give evidence of the relations
existing between proprietary of Herald and Mr. Cook
and in denial of article complained of.
4. Counsel for defendant to apologise and express re-
gret for publication of libel. This to include a direct
reference to the possible insinuation in the libel
against the present general manager of the plaintiffs,
who undertake that on same being included no action
will be brought by him.
5. Defendants to publish at their expense twice in the
special column of Sydney Morning Herald on first
Saturday and Wednesday or Wednesday and Satur-
day available after conclusion of case, and twice in
first available consecutive issues of Sydney Mail the
apology already published.
6. Defendants to publish in first available issue of
Bulletin report of case in court, and in doing so to
adopt the Herald report, such report to be limited
to the proceedings in court and without comment.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, being examined by Mr.
Broomfield, said that he and his sons, Geoffrey Evan and
James Oswald, were the proprietors of the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald. He had been a proprietor since 1866.
He had read the article complained of referring
to the relations of his firm with the late Samuel
Cook, formerly general manager of the Sydney Morning
Herald. His relations with Mr. Cook were always of a
most friendly character from 1865, and even before that,
and he was never dismissed from the employment of the
firm.
Mr. Broomfield : This is the article of which you com-
plain :
“‘Pitman’: So Samuel Cook has taken a holiday at
last. For the half a century that he was on the S. M.
Herald he couldn’t be persuaded by the Fairfaxes to take
a real holiday. He knew a thing or two, did Samuel ;
and amongst the things he knew, inside out, were the_
Fairfaxes. Whilst he was on the spot they were all he'
could wish ; they recognised the value of his services ;
it was he, in fact, that made the paper what it is.
But Sam Cook realised that, the moment his back was
turned, some wily person would easily induce the thrifty
millionaires to believe that they could get twice as good
a general manager at half the screw. And so it hap-
pened. When Sam was entertained on the occasion of
his jubilee of service, which was also the eve of his
departure on a world tour, there wasn’t a word said
about that being the last time he would meet the,
Herald employees as one of themselves. He ceriainly
didn’t know it, and it was not until he returned from
his holiday that he was informed of the decision which
had been arrived at in his absence. The old. gentleman
took the blow bravely. He ought to have been prepared
for it; the survival of the cheapest is a great doctrine.
Newspaper men who knew Sam Cook found him always
straight and honest. He was kindness personified. The
Herald observed a deep silence as to the severance of
his connection with the office, and the leader about him
was merely piffle re journalists as a class. It might apply
almost as well to the gifted gentleman who wrote it as
to Samuel Cook, for, with the exception of a sentence or
two at the beginning and end, it had no particular refer-
ence to him. The Telegraph notice was a bit better,
Editor Ward descending for the moment from the con-
templation of his exalted position as a D.C.L. to remem-
ber the time when he was Cook’s subordinate.”
Now, is there a single word of truth in that article?—
Not a single word. This was explained by witness, in
answer to counsel, to mean except in so far as the article
spoke in praise of Mr. Cook, of whom witness said it
could not speak too highly.
Q. : Up to the time of his death Mr. Cook remained in
your employment, did he not? —Yes ; he remained at his
own particular request, and was never actually taken off
the staff of our firm.
Q. : Is there any truth in the suggestion that when Mr.
Cook’s back was turned some wily person induced you to
believe that you could get twice as good a manager at
half the price?—There is absolutely no truth whatever
in the statement.
Q.: Mr. Cook, I believe, took a long holiday before this
article was published, did he not?—Yes. He had a num-
ber of holidays at different times, and on one occasion he
went for a special trip to the islands.
Q. : And you say that your relations with him were of
a very friendly character throughout?—Yes.
Q. : Was there really a saving of expense in appointing
Mr. Cook’s successor?—No ;on the contrary, there was
increased expense. And I may say that the appointment
was made with his approval.
Q. : How long after Mr. Cook’s death did the article
appear?—The article was published on July 14, a short
time after Mr. Cook’s burial.
Mr. Shand: The terms of settlement having been
handed up to your Honor, I wish on behalf of the de-
fendants to say that the article sued upon was published
in The Bulletin in the absence of two gentlemen who '
ordinary supervise matters that appear in The Bulletin,
and from the time the article was brought to the atten-
tion of the responsible officer of The Bulletin that jour-
nal has not only been willing, but anxious, to undo any
wrong its publication may have done to the plaintiffs.
They admit now, through me, that the allegations made
in the article against the Messrs. Fairfax and Sons are
altogether without foundation, and if there are any
insinuations against the present general manager of the
Sydney Morning Herald (Mr. Conley), the defendants
also wish to repudiate any insinuation or reflection cast
upon him as being without foundation. In conclusion,
the defendants, through me, desire to express their deep
regret that the unfortunate paragraph should have
appeared in their paper.
A verdict was then recorded for the plaiijf.ffs for
£52 10s. with costs as in the terms above.
Here’s a Gent.’s Comfortable Shoe
But it’s not only comfortable--it’s decidedly smart
and extremely serviceable, too.
Rignev Shoes are positively the highest grade it is
possible to procure.
The Shoe illustrated is a Black Phoenix Calf
Derby Shoe,
215., 225. 6d., 255.
iUso in Tan, 235. 6d. and 255. Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
How B. & B.’s Make Good !
B. & B. Cycles made somewhat of a scoop at the Nambucca Cycle Club’s
meeting on the 3rd inst. They got three firsts, one second and one
third—only losing one place out of the whole series of events.
Riders who wish to be mounted on the fastest, lightest but most reliable cycle almost
invariably choose aB.& B. Their discriminating choice should be your guide. Follow
in the footsteps of the wise and get aB.& B. Send for catalogue, if you cannot call.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castiereagti Street,
Sydney.


A. SAUNDERS’ £lOO,OOO PURCHASE
Of the Famous “James Dixon” Silverware-
lamed All Over the World for its Wonderful Beauty, Finish, and Long-wearing- Qualities.
OFFERED NOW AT 25 PER CENT. LESS THAN YOU’D PAY ELSEWHERE.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND,
Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, Sin
high, Strawberry
Design, Opal-tinted
Glass Tube, 5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLE-STICK, Pure Silver-
plated, Petunia Design, Pierc-
ed Base, 9/6.
Other Styles,. 6/6, 7/6.
mfj
mv
m
m
n
n
B
DM
o
D
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION DINNER CRUET, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Hobnail Cut
Crystal Glass Bottles, £3/10/-
Without Shield, e 3.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, Rustic
Stand, Richly Embossed,
£2/10/-
Other Styles, £2, £2/5/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed, tJ/o-
Other Styles, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Crystal Cut
Glass Bottles,
Other Styles, 7/6, 10 '6,
15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Richly
Embossed, Gilt-lined,
20/-
Brush to Match, 12/C.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/6.
. . SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver-plated, Hand _ En-
graved, Richly Finished,
Fern Design, 207-
Other Styles, ’ '/6, 21/, 25/
XIIPM
1 ' ! i" l T!
sSßis^g
A. SAUNDERS.
FRUIT and FLOWER EPERGNE, A 1 Quality,
Pure Silver-plated, Australian Design, Kanga-
roo, Emu, or Stag Subjects, including Common-
wealth Coat of Arms, Finest English Cut Glass,
£5/15/•
This is a
Magnificent
Design of
Beautiful
Workmanship
and Finish.
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION DESSERT EPERGNE, containing 3 Detachable Dishes, Hand-
Hand Embossed and Engraved, Giltdined, Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Base 2ft long, height 15in. £l5-
An Ideal
Presentation
Gift.
Handsome,
Exclusive, and
Long-wearing.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER-DISH and KNIFE,
Shell Shape, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Satin
Glass, 15/6-
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, A 1 Qual-
itv Silver-plated Nickel fell-
ver Amber Tinted Glass,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Pure
Silver-plated Mounts, Hand
Painted Floral China,
20/
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6,
15/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND,
Pure Silver-plated,
Thistle Design,
Opal-tinted Glass,
Bin high, 7/Si-
Other Styles, 5/6,
7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Handsomely Hand-embossed,
Oval Shape, Silver-plated Nickel Silver, A 1
Quality, llin long, £3/»/•
Other Styles, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/.
A. SAUNDERS.
INK-STAND, Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality Hobnail
Cut Crystal Bottles, Richly Embossed,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPORTING CUP, Pure Silver-plated, Hand
Embossed and Engraved, Victory Subjects,
Gilt-lined, height 15in,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Hand Fluted
and Embossed,
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 O’CLOCK CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-
plated, Al Quality, Full Size, in Silk-lined
Case, 12/6-
Other Styles, 6/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure
Silver-plated, Hand-
Engraved, 20/*
Other Styles, 17/6, 20/,
25/, 30/.
z/i.ysutncfe'ZJ.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS Pure
Silver-plated, Handsomely Finished, m Silk-lined
Case, 12/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 16/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUJNDERS.
. vn OOFFFE SERVICE, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream,
Al Richlv Engraved, Butterfly Design, Gilt-lined, with Covers, £4/4/.
3-Piece, 4 O’clock Size, £2/10/.
JEWELLER,
o«tf cHB CLOCK
k MAKER ft
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
RO7. RO9-ftll.ft 15.815.817. GEORGE ST. t flnnnsite Railwav Sfafion) SYDNEY, N.SW
SILVERSMITH
fO HSUL77/y c i


A remarkable Series
of record breaks on
the XLCOCK TABLE"
GRAY
836 (World’s Re=
cord), 800, 591,
588, 564, 534.
ROBERTS
631.
WILLIAMS
593.
LINDRUM
507.
$
S
■"w
I
The Table
on which all
the Professional
and Amateur Records
were made.
The Table
with half a
century’s reputation
for reliability behind it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
AlcocK’s Billiard Tables.
THE splendid performance of George Gray, the youthful Queenslander, when he made his big break of 830 in
the match against Fred Lindrum, jun., thus breaking the world's record, caused something like a sensation in
" Billiardopolis."
That break was made on a standard "Alcock " Billiard Table, duly certified by the Amateur Billiard Association
of Victoria (which is affiliated with the Billiard Association of Great Britain and Ireland).
To prove that this big break was no "mere flash in the pan," Gray made other breaks of 800, 591, 588, 564
and 534 —every one of them, be it noted, on an Alcock Table.
Following closely on Gray's wonderful performance, other famous players have established new records.
During the last few weeks the world-famous veteran, John Roberts, made a break of 631—the record for pro-
fessional players visiting Australia; F. Lindrum, jun., made 507 —his best break; Williams, the English professional,
made 593 —second only to Roberts's break of 631; and H. Rumball established a new Australian amateur record by
running up a break of 180.
All these records were made within a few weeks, and they were all made on ALCOCK STANDARD TABLES.
The fact that all the important billiard records have been made on Alcock Tables furnishes striking and
convincing evidence of their superiority, all-round quality and accuracy.
Alcocß’s Bijou Billiard Table.
Alcock's "Bijou" is an ideal table for home billiards, fitted with slate and fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard cloth, beautifully finished, and made in sizes most suitable for home use. By a simple adjustment
of leaves this table can be converted into a dining table. Easy terms arranged if desired. Prices on request.
AlcocK O. Co. Pty. Ltd.,
MELBOURNE : 155 ElizafaetH Street
ADELAIDE: : 7 King' William Street
PERTH ; Murray Street.
SYDNEY: 307 George Street.
BRISBANE: 114 Edward Street.
WELLINGTON : Lower Cuba Street.


Teething
TROUBLES can be CURED
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
which is not a medicine that
merely gives temporary re-
lief, Scott’s Emulsion per-
manently cures all forms of
teething trouble. Hundreds
of parents have written to say
their children were cured of
teething trouble by Scott’s
Emulsion. For exam pie, Mrs.
W. Des Jardines wrote, 2nd
June, 1909, from 4, Grove
Street, Balmain, Sydney,
N.S.W.:
“My two children were veiy peevish and
restless while teething, and I had almost to
force Eva to eat. After a few doses of
Scott’s she began to eat heartily, and
now both children are putting
on flesh Thomas, nine
months, weighs 21 lb., and
Eva, 2\ years, 2k stone— and
looking the picture of health.
They are cutting their teeth
without any trouble, and are
as good tempered as they were
cross before. This trademark
was on the emulsion I bought.”
If you wish to cure teething
trouble, and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it. is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the trouble-
no matter the age of the patient and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Teething Troubles if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MILNERS' SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
HI
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Bigrgr.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
“The Tie
that ,
will not
Crease
f-
IRIS'bM
Real PoplinTtesJ
None''
Genuine
withoui
th is
Red<*. Tab.
IRI
Woo/.
REC?
BEALPOPUN
Obtainable AH Mercers
Ladies’ Stylish
Summer
Footwear
PRICE,
1616
Stylish Shoes give any woman a well-bred
and up-to-date appearance.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the finest im-
ported models, and is eminently suited to the
present fashions.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Brown,
large tin, 6d.
Write for our Booklet, “Shoelight.”
LEJLMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
25/-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran;
1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. [2
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST!
A painfully thin
woman is placed at
a great disadvan-
tage nowadays. No
woman now need
stay thin and un-
developed.
w
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD
is a natural tissue builder, a scientific bust
developer, that will add five pounds to your
weight weekly, and adds inches to your
measurements. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Dept* 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagii St. ,
SYDNEY
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
&
MORRIS® I
hreeWttches
b CKIARSTTeS
for
Made
tendon
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
For the P.M.G.—and others
1. Gambling is trying to get gain at
another’s loss ; it is a part of a larger whole,
an outward trouble begotten of something
inward — viz., love of money, excessive desire
for gain. .
2. Finding money and keeping it and
winning money by gambling, are morally
about equal.
3. Betting is, upon occasion, both lawful
and right; but gambling never is.
4. An opinion worth having is worth back-
ing ; but let it be done more to show that
you believe in what you say, that you have
the courage of your convictions, than to
make money. Many a battlefield has been
but a backing of opinion.
5. If all backing and betting were done m
silver coin only, and winnings given to
charitable purposes, there would be increase
both of real sport and of enjoyment from
same, as well as of income to the charities,
with a corresponding decrease of desire for
unlawful gain.
6. If some of the “upper ten were to
set example as above suggested, same would
spread to the multitude ; and what is now
largely a nuisance, if not a curse, would
become a means of amusement, for all equally
pleasurable and useful.— Advt.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1506.
Australian Blight,FallingEyelashes, Weak Sight
. .V for its historr-the book is free-or write
Ask your chemist for its history-the book is free-or write
Sj. GREEN. &10. Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng.
I
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victorfa. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating »
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN S CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Richardson Cushion
Bearing Roller Skates.
TT J 1 ,~„ 0 i„ in nil of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America,
Us ed excl sivel y in aU @ fast and fancv . RICHARDSON
SKATES have heW all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Iflfs how to 6 open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
? £
UNDER VICE-REGAE PATRONAGE.
For the Latest Style of Head-Dress, Puffs and Swathings, £2/10/-
Very Light and Easily Adjusted. Obtainable only at
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth
Telephone 2138 Central.
& Castlereagfh Streets.
COMBINGS MADE TIP.
Business, Robbery, etc.
This isn’t the age of the steam-engine—anyway,
not of the small, retail steam-engine. There was a time
when the fireman had to come in by the early door to stoke
up ; nowadays there isn’t any fireman—except at the
wholesale power factory. Victorian Government Statist
Laughton has been counting up the engines employed in
his State’s factories, and finds that the, various sorts,of
power have changed positions like this in so short a time
as five years:—
1904. 1909.
Steam.. 31.0 per cent. 25.1 per cent.
Gas .. 17.4 ~ „ 16.4 ~ ~
Electric 6.2 ~ ~ 16.9 ~ ~
There are 112 factories which used steam five years ago
and now use something else ; 45 more use gas ; and no
less than 541 more use electric current. Then there’s oil
and water, and wind, and horse, and mere man-power;
but none of them is shoving ahead much, and some are
not shoving ahead at all.
“The Squib” (from Chicago): “Gideon”
(B 12/5/TO) mentions with enthusiasm the complete and
lucid wording of the recent indictment of the American
Meat Trust. It may interest him and others to know
that that very indictment was thrown out by the court,
as" being incorrectly drawn up, and a couple of States-
Attorneys have been debarred from further participation
in the case. Things like this are by no means uncommon
in this glorious “Land of the Free and Home of the
Knave ” where large interests continually get into Court
and where States-Attorneys and even Judges hold their
positions for short periods on political favor. To the
Australian the higher U.S. courts are a tragedy, while
the police courts wobble badly from poor comic opera
to worse farce. * * *
Casual remarks forwarded to a Tasmanian
fi rm •!_“ Dear Sirs in refrence to acount of 3s. lid. for
Goods seplide to Mrs. of I have to inform you
that the Lady was not haney relation to me onley she
had 3 children to me and I paid for their siport By order
of the Cort and I have No Dobt if you inquire from the
Cort. you will find this is rite. I done all I Could to help
her in honor of the children and she had no one to help
her I paid all the funrul expenses and I have to siport
the children and I have no Account with you. You are
strangers there was No Mrs. but I may say she went
under the name of and got goods in that name she
was not right in her mentel helth as she was only relest
from newfolk assiryal she never recovored her sensses
her name was her husband is some part of North West
Cost I respected the lady but I canot setel her acount.
I remains respectable J .” No gentleman could re-
main anything else who merely “ respected the lady but
canot setel her As a rule, the position is re-
versed —the .account is settled and the lady isn t re-
gpected worth tuppence.
BRITISH RAILS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
British Rails for Australia.—The Westralian Govern-
ment has accepted tenders for 20,000 tons of rails and
fishplates of British manufacture. The tender has been
secured by a firm of merchants on behalf of the North-
Eastern Steel Co., Middlesborough.— The Times {London).
Rails !
British rails 1
The delude never fails,
Still they ship the same old goods upon the steamers
f.o.b.
And the merchant far away lifts his satisfied “ Hooray,”
As he thinks what helpless creatures must these fool-
Australians be !
Though we beat the nation’s drums, still the same con-
signment conies —
Will we ever in our history build a railway for ourselves?
With the same sepulchral tones, 10, we call for rails and
loans,
And we stack our foolish orders on the distant Briton’s
shelves !
Rails !
British rails!
W.A. and New South Wales,
All the States are heaving orders towards the foreign
person’s mills ;
South Australia, Q. and Vic. howl for fishplates cheap
and quick,
And we hasten to the Lombards at a pace that surely
kills !
’Tis the Briton far away who supplies the rails to-day—
’Tis the Middlesborough merchant who is grasping orders
sure;
If the mere Australian man dwelt afar in Hindustan,
He might win the approbation of Westralia’s Newton
Moore !
Rails!
British rails!
Kidston faints and Murray quails—
Shall they hire the base Australian, shall they help the
people here? N
It were folly to propose schemes unheard of such as
these ;
So the fervent Foreign-Traders lift their large, emphatic
jeer!
Thus the engine on the grade grips the rail-lengths,
British made,
And the Great Imported Fishplate lies in heaps beside
the track ;
Whilst the common local man finds employment where
he can,
And he humps the vast Loan Burden on his bent and
weary back !
Rails !
British rails !
These must bear our freight and mails—
Never let the poor Australian get a chance to start his
mills ; •
He is just the person who must redeem the I OU —
He’s the handy human camel whom our statesmen load
with bills!
Twenty thousand tons or more, speeding to Westralia’s
shore—
Twenty thousand White Australians waiting here with
able hands ;
But the Newton Moores and Wades seem to hate Aus-
tralian trades,
So they drag their rails and fishplates from the cheap and
distant lands!
Rails !
British rails !
Every British ship that sails
Carts the Briton’s rails as ballast to the fool-Australians
here ;
And the tenders as they go from the distant British Co.,
Find enthusiastic welcome from each foolish State boss
here.
All unanimously shout: “Send the British fishplates
out —
Send the rails from distant England to this helpless,
. mortgaged shore ” ;
Moore and Kidston, Murray, Watt—hear the loud, im-
porting lot,
And be silent. O ! be silent, re Australia’s iron ore !
Rails !
British rails !
These must join our hills and dales,
These must bear Australia’s produce to the crowded
wharves and quays ;
’Twas the mad and foolish creed of the vanished, clown-
ing Reid,
And his fool-successors suffer from the same Freetrade
disease 1
For the Mere Australian Man droops beneath the states-
man’s ban—
He’s the uncomplaining camel whom each Premier flogs
and flails ;
And ’tis very clear to us; as we drag the nation’s ’bus.
There is something grand and special in these sacred
British Rails!
victoria.
GRANT HERVEY.


Always take a Kodak with
you.
No. 3 Folding Pocket
Kodak- £3/12/6
The No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak is a
camera that will produce splendid results
for you, even though you have had no
previous experience of photography.
lakes pictures x and is
fitted with R.R. Lens, the F.P.IC. Auto
Shutter, automatic focussing lock and
two tripod sockets. Body is constructed
of aluminium, covered with fine quality
black seal grain leather, and the weight
is only 230 ZS.
Price £,3/12/6. Postage Extra, 1/3.
No, 3a Folding Pocket
Kodak £4llO/-
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak is
the most popular of all cameras; takes
the full-size postcard picture, x
Provided with every feature for
the most serious work, yet so simple as
to be effectively handled by the novice.
Equipment includes double Rapid
Rectilinear Lens, Kodak Automatic
Shutter, Automatic Focussing Lock,
Brilliant Reversible Finder and Tripod
Sockets. Covered with fine quality black
seal-grain leather, nickelled fittings.
Top-coat pocket size.
Price £4/10/- Postage Extra, 1/3.
/G
■m
r
£
■-
S3*
O
m
ONE of the occasions when three makes really delightful
company is when the third member of the party happens
to be a Kodak. It will not intrude when intrusion is not
desirable, and it is always ready at a moment’s notice to
faithfully reproduce a charming piece of scenery, with your
companion as the centre of interest, or any happening or
incident whatsoever which you may wish to photograph for
future use or present pleasure.
With the Kodak every operation, as you know, can he
carried out in daylight. There is no need for previous experience,
no occasion for resort to the discomfort and inconvenience of
the dark room —in fact, Kodak photography is truly “photo-
graphy with the bother left out.”
Call at one of our branches and get a Kodak to-day, dr
write for a copy of the Kodak Catalogue giving complete details.
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating: Baker
& Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z
The New Edison
Records are
Now on Sale
at all Dealers.
A GLANCE through the lists of the new Edison Records for October
wili quickly convince you of the desirability of adding some of the
numbers to your collection. There are 41 records in all —22
Amberols and 19 Standards. The artists are those whose names are a
guarantee of goodness, and there is variety enough to suit the most
fastidious.
You certainly should call on your dealer and get him to let you
hear them.
We will send complete lists of machines and records on application, and
supply the name and address of your nearest dealer if you do not know it.
Amberol Records for October
(Four-Minute).
394 I’m Longing for the Old Days, Marguerite
. Romain
397 Sheridan s Ride (Recitation) .. Davenport
398 Old Jim’s Christmas Hymn
Anthony & Harrison
400 Cavatina from “La Favorita ” (Saxophone)
. Henton
402 Down in the Little Mossy Dell
Stanley & Gillette
403 The Two Happy Darky Boys.. Golden & Hughes
404 Thunderer* Gladiator Marches Sousa’s Band
405 Betsy Ross .. .. .. Potter & Chorus
406 Saved by Grace .. Ed. Mixed Quartette
408 Mia Cara Waltz American Symphony Orch.
409 My Love is Greater than the World. .Thompson
410 Ludwig’s Air Castle .. Jones & Spencer
411 Wait for the Waggon Medley
Premier Quartette
412 A Day at West Point N.Y, Military Band
HnK 0'!,,, ™ i n ,
12105 The Girl in the Clogs and Shawl Forde
12109 Put On Your Old Green Bonnet Fay
12110 I Only Got Married To-day .. Pleasants
12121 The Light of Day (The Blind Boy’s Song)
Payne
12122 Pull Yourselves Together, Girls Forde
12124 Since Poor Grandfather Died .. Formby
12145 The Inharmonious Blacksmith.. Osmond
HAWAIIAN AMBEROL RECORD
11500 Ninipo .. .. Toots Paka's Hawaiians
Standard Records for October
(Two-Minute).
10335 Dixieland Sousa’s Band
10336 I’d Rather Say “ Hello . .. Remain
10339 Before I Go and Marry Jones
10340 Blest Be the Tie That Binds
Anthony and Harrison
10343 Uncle Josh in a Chinese Laundry . .Stewart
10344 The Belle of the Barbers’ Ball
. Jones and Murray
10346 Cloud-Chief.. American Symphony Orch.
10347 Can’t You See ? .. .. ' Harlan
10348 A Coon Wedding- .. .. Peerless Quartette
10349 Miss Liberty March N. Y. Military Band
1°933 Mary Took the Calves to the Dairy Show
Forde
13939 Brown Wings .. .. .. Kirkbv
13942 The Hot Cross Bun .. .. Osmond
13947 Ranking Two-Step.. National Mil. Band
1394 S Dear Old Bow Bells Pike
13949 Settle Up—Settle Down .. ..' Williams
13950 The Jolly Japanese (Concertina) Prince
13903 It’s the Alpine Dress You’re Wearing
13955 Coldstream Guards March
National Mil. Band
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. 8., KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
:
m
... ■
"t
mm
...
:
> .. ~.:
Hi?# llSllß &
‘A*
SSid
Path of a .351 Caliber Soft-Pointed. Bullet in Dry Pine.
It enters like a needle but tears a hole like a spike „
High-Power Self-Loading Rifle
,351 Caliber
IT HITS HARD AND SHOOTS FAST.
4] This new Winchester hits hard because it handles
cartridge which represents the highest develop-
ment in smokeless powder ammunition. Its 180-
grain hunting bullet will penetrate a quarter-inch' steel
plate or thirteen J/i -inch dry pine boards and tear a
killing path as big as that shown in the illustration.
Clt shoots fast because the recoil is utilized to do
the reloading. To shoot six times it is only nec-
essary to pull the trigger for each shot. This places
reloading as well as firing under the control of the trigger
finger, and permits rapid shooting with ease and accuracy.
For big game hunting, where the quarry often has to be
shot on the run, this makes it a particularly effective rifle.
CThe barrel of this rifle does not move back and forth
in a jacket, but is stationary like other rifles, and the
sights are attached to the barrel itself, which accounts
for its superior accuracy. This rifle is safe, strong and
simple in action, easy to load and unload, easy to take
down, and a handy and handsome gun from butt to muzzle.
Winchester Guns and Ammunition-The Red W Brand-are Sold Everywhere.


A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
aXUSTARD^S
SR
Bird’s
Custard
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
. Adults and the Youthful alike.
CONGO
DAMP
COURSE
GROUND
LEVEL
□
3-PLY
EES
FLOOR LEVEL
m
mm—r.
i C P*» c o Zj°
cr
A RAMPART AGAINST DAMPNESS.
Congo Damp Course gives perfect underground protection on foundations and cellar floors
against dampness and vermin in the soil. This material is very tough, with sufficient
elasticity to prevent its being punctured by the roughness of ordinary masonry surfaces.
Dampness cannot pass through it, and the inner walls and floors thus protected will be dry.
The antiseptic nature of the saturation in Congo Damp Course effectually prevents damage
by ants and other underground vermin. Lime in mortar has no chemical effect on it. Made
in seven convenient, widths. Skilled labor not required. Sample or, request.
CONGO ROOFING (3-plv grade) comes ready to lay without special skilled labor, and can
be trusted to give perfect protection for upwards of 10 years. Sample.free on request.
C C. DELMAR, Australasian Representative for “Congo,” Sydney, N.S.W.
Agknts—Millar’s Karra Jarrah Co., Perth, W.A. ; Noyes Bros., 109 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W. ;
Noves Bros., 153 William St., Melbourne ; Harrold, Colton & Co., Currie St., Adelaide ;
Brabant & Co., 157 to 163 Charlotte St., Brisbane ; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
An Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
9
©
I
0
xw\W
\w \
I
\\N^v
ttlttlU
4v/r
&
w-
'T''^
«L
yj\
r-
-4
%
•MV'
M\
£
sw>m»»
V//
&*£i!7--\
•o.d.t
">o^
• •lli’iWllliiP*
"X
• Mill' ii '•'!(/
m
»i t?r\j*~ &
~=*w
r r .
I|||l'^
till >
U"l
“ f/».'
"l/l 1
hum
It’s all very well to
Make Hay while the Sun Shines
but the question arises: How to make the Most Hay for the Least Money?
Our stock of Haying Machinery comprises an assortment greater than can be found among the
combined stocks of all other Machinery Houses in Australia.
It includes several Money Savers that are not procurable elsewhere.
Among the lines constantly in stock each in a variety of sizes are:
" Deering” and “McCormick” Mowers, “Deering” and “McCormick” Self Dump Rakes, “I.H.C”
Side Delivery Rakes, Push Rakes, Hay Loaders, Swinging Stackers, and Baling Presses.
A considerable number of the largest Lucerne Growers in Australia are now gathering their crops by
the use of “1.H.C.” “Side Delivery ” and “Push” Rakes, and stacking them with “1.H.C.” Swinging Stackers,
at a tremendous reduction from previous costs of Harvesting.
Every shipper of Hay who hasn’t yet provided himself with an “1.H.C.” Baling Press is paying
heavily in waste for his failure to do so.
Every man who cuts Hay whether on a large or small scale should post himself on the advantages
offered by
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
ZVO Roma Street , Brisbane. 37 Broadway Sydney. 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD , Hobart, General Agent for
Southern Tasmania.
(312)
Is
W/
■w
M
0
AN
Ax
, - •
r
QV^UjSDI
v.’M^r-
VMli
*»s
ru/"- 0
m
3K
■/fto/f.r,.
-#r
M
«OKM
rn**
-ion
Sr-^'m
~c: lvi ‘"-ml
©
Haiti F
a?
<•"<11


Some of Phraser’s tired Third-Generation
Australians have been getting: together in Ade-
laide. David Strongman and Joseph Dix came
from England to S. Aus. 50 or 60 years ago, and
settled near each other. Two Dix boys married
two Strongman girls—and then there were other
Dixes. As many of the two families as could get
together met in a public hall one evening last
week, and celebrated old times, and counted up
266 descendants that the two pioneers had left
behind them.
“ Christopher Crash,” who says he doesn’t
care if the signals are against him :
I see that a truck has just failed to splinter up a Vic-
torian railway carriage containing 15 people. I pre-
sume that, later on, someone will be fired, fined, sus-
pended, let down lightly or reduced five decimal points
for not observing Regulation B10J?? —% Z. It would
give me a heap more satisfaction if Tait compelled the
found-guilty party to take a full course in undertaking.
Johnson of N.S.W. has an ambulance class in his Railway
Institute ; but that sort of trifling isn’t of any use to the
sort of service that Victoria possesses. What Victoria
wants is undertakers, so that, immediately the crash
happens, all porters and guards in the vicinity who have
been through the course could touch a spring in their
patent crush caps and transform them into belltoppers,
and let down a couple of reefs in their coats and
make them into gloomy, long-tailed garments. By
forcing each and every delinquent to learn how
to do things decently, Victoria would in time have
the service honeycombed—or catacombed—with under-
takers, ready to glide to the wreckage with patent col-
lapsible coffins taken from racks under the seats of the
carriages, and wire-wreath frames taken from clips
attached to the inner sides of the wheels. (The station
gardens would supply the flowers.) This suggestion is, I
consider, a valuable one. At the time of the South
African farm-burning a parson, who writhed at the usual
untidiness of death on the veldt, suggested publicly that
each contingent should take away with it a number of
small, blank tombstones. It was a fine idea; but some-
how it got trampled down in the general confusion. The
Victorian trains could easily carry with them complete
funeral kits ; and the passengers would have more use
for them than the farm-burners had. If, in addition, the
Department got together a fine body (good word,
“ body ” !) of trained coffiners, ready to appear as fast as
they could touch off their patent caps and shake down
'■heir tails, there would be nothing left to wish for,
except, perhaps, a swift ending.
Amusements.
”|“OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction .. BENNO SCHERER.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF
MADAME TERESA
CAR REN O
(Pronounce Car-rain-3’o)
THE CELEBRATED PIANIST.
FAREWELL CONCERTS—
THURSDAY and SATURDAY,
SEPTEMBER 22 and 24.
Prices—6s., 45., 3s. and 2s. Tickets at Paling’s.
H ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE ORCHID.
SATURDAY NEXT. SEPTEMBER 24,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
IN
O U ll MISS GIBBS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Criterion theatre, Sydney.
Lessee .. FRANK MUSGROVE.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 24
(and Five Following Nights),
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in NAT GOULD’S Sporting Play,
The CHANCE of a. LIFETIME
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Early Door 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Booking Fee, 1/-
RETURN SEASON NOVEMBER 26.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Mr., J. C. WILLIAMSON presents again in Sydney
THE GRAND OPERA COMPANY.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 24, MONDAY, SEPT. 26,
TUESDAY, SEPT. 27, CARMEN.
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 28, LA BOHEME.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 29, FRIDAY, SEPT. 30,
CARMEN.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE R O Y A L, SYDNEY:
1 Direction .. ALLAN HAMILTON.
SEASON CLOSES FRIDAY NEXT.
HARRY PLIMMER and REYNOLDS DEN-
NISTON present the new Clyde Fitch Play,
LOYEBS’ LANE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices—3s., 25., Is. All Booked
Seats, ss. Day Sale Tickets, Row’s Confectionery.
ALACE T H E A T R E, SYDNEY.
Lessee ..- ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLAN HAMILTON and MAX MAXWELL’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A WOMAN’S R VENGE.
(Bv Arrangement with Bland Holt.)
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 24,
THE LITTLE BREADWINNER
(By arrangement with Rupert Clarke and Clvdr Meynell).
Prices —35., 25., Is. Box PI n at Elvy’s.
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
" Opposite Railway’ Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICT LUES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at, Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
THE. LYCEUM ..
— Leyery evening at 8
M ati mees -Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
SPENCER'SIfit ATREJCOPE <?.
PICTURES
'<• SUPER.I OR TO SILL OTffERS.
Popular Prices Plapi at Pali no a.
“|“lVOLI THEATRE, a Y J .U S Y.
* Sole Proprietor & Manacer —Mr. Harry Rickards
jf MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
MORRIS CRONIN AND COMPANY, Famous Jugglers.
BARNES and WEST, Specialty Dancers.
THE QUEALYS, in Farcical Comedy, ‘Fun in a Kitchen.’
THE AUSTRALIAN GOLD DIGGERS, by a Quartette
of Leading Vocalists (Messrs. A. Sharpies, H. Powell,
E. Harrison and J. McKellar).
BERT TERRELL, Dutch Comedian and Yodeller.
TOM DAWSON, Popular and Favorite Comedian.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Palinsr’s.
Amusements.
O PE * A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
POWELL & VESEY, Duologue Entertainers.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Piquant Musical Artists
MR. & MRS. MEYMOTT, Society Sketch Artists.
LILY THOMPSON, Serio Comic and Dancer.
GODFREY JAMES, Singing Collier.
FANNY POWERS, Mimetic Artiste.
DONNELLY TRIO, Song and Dance Artists.
FRED BLUETT and HIS BOY SCOUTS.
Plan at Allan’s. <tg~ PRICES—3s, 2s. Is.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anderson.
A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS. .
William Anderson's Famous Dramatic Co.
in a New and Picturesque Australian Drama
of Sporting Life,
THE WINNING TICKET.
Magnificent New Scenery and Effects.
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents his NEW LONDON
COMPANY in the Greatest of Drury Lane Dramas, in
THE WHIP.
A SERIES OF SENSATIONAL SCENES,
SUPERLATIVE SPECTACULAR EFFECTS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
-J-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 24,
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC OPERA CO. in
SE R G 14 AN T BRU E.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 24,
JULIUS KNIGHT, KATHERINE GREY
and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
—IN—
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
POSITIVE LAST TWO WEEKS IN AUSTRALIA.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
w
EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, TH e best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
|y| ELBOURNE GLACIARIUM,
ICE-SKATJ NG
EVERY AFTERNOON
AND
EVENING.
W~ IRTMSOLYMPIA.
.EVERY EVENING AT 8
M ati nets -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 230.
SPENCER'SInEATRKCOPE <?.
PICTURES
m HRE SUPER.IO/2 TO ELI OTHERS..- a
Popular Prices Peats as Umjal^
A
THEM /£ U IVI
Lessees
HALL. MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
J.tN.TAIT'S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Glass Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
Business Announcements.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being a curse in your home and a nuisance to
your friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S. W.). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly (>■ taken voluntarilv. Advice
Free. Write or call. "1. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street, Melbourne ; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [3
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing 1 it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Atnaxlngly Clmeap
Barometer Weather Glass
v> an 9e
Made
Entirely of
Metal
PRACTICALLY
EYERLASTiNG
Very
Sensitive &
Accurate
Width
4% Inches,
Dial 3 Inches.
idr
» OBSERVE THE PRICE,
Only 4/ 6 , carefully
packed and carriage paid.
'T'HE value of a Barometer Weather Glass is so evident that
- 1 - everybody would have one but for its high cost. Having
obtained a large number under exceptional condition , we
have decided to sell them to gain new customers at 4s. 6d.
each, that is less than a quarter of the usual price. I*tease
notice: ONLY POUR SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE;
there is no mistake about it, and we pay carriage. The Bar-
ometer is of good appearance and excellent finish ; it is made
entirely of metal, so that it can be exposed to all weathers
without damage. The dial is covered by a close-fitting glass,
carrying a brass indicator, by which the slightest movement
of the steel pointer is shown and any change of weather fore-
told. You should order at once. This advertisement may
not appear again, for at this price they will soon be all sold.
The Union Manufacturing Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
j
WM
-
m.
V \\ >
1%
-i-jt
ft
. V
- ’
111
J*
!
"7"V <3otf» flDctot,
B&JStaalcurtn, tS33 •fjtM&Jt'
SP KRUSE’S
LUH) MAGNESI A
M* Wiliams ixMMtICL A» » «
I tttrt twriortty So iU'«&«ri. Uo J-Jrtn
tit Ktlbmrst XxhlfcWoa. 1006-7. is '.iuif
Wajrf» U> twm'oTaa? o tthirVxfciWtiA.
grass
SSESE
«U-A Wia*6lu*fal oa«« or twit* t U.l ;
CiUlno, two or tirw touyooai'Jlv
ffi-TpH, CJjjlijjrW XToTtltiBOUPj
MAGNESIA
LL\_k_ \/o lix'iij >_ !Ar a t ( c- cl) ;
/ U-IKDIOBSn^
p ACLDITp! ciJ c
Hji-Ltiei-'c
RteP
ytIPERVVt^S
.-s'
’ 'A
V.
4^
~. /lr
(ttoy*sr :
m*
" y
r\ ‘
4
>m
Wi
m
fp.
%**.%'%***' ■*-'■'*&■’ J
'^2>
Cooc/Dey s>r,
IT you please could you fer me
some oFyour Fme Wool
For The A USTRAL lAN KNITTING
. Mills pure Woollen
UnderWesr,
Absolutely Pure Wool Underwear for
1 " • • —- 1
. T - f v;
Australian Men, Women and Children.
GUARANTEED UN SHRINKABLE.
“ MADE IN AUSTRALIA/'
See that our Registered Trade Mark "GOLDEN FLEECE ”
is on every garment.
Stocked by all reputable retail houses.
Made in our own Mills, Richmond, Victoria.
Sole Proprietors :—
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS, LTD.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund's Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Tvvin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
BOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany's Mail Si earners, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mki.ikh'hnk Aukntb : JOHN SANDERSON CO.,
11l Wjllimn-street.
Anrci.AinK & Fkkmanti.k Aqknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE:
AUSTRALIA ENCLAN D.
12,00 p-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Bertb Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BR.ISRANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Plack, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
jjank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Estl. (Burns, Philp &Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout, (QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other planes.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fix»d period', and
transacts all other usual lianVr
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1!) >•) 11 ns let- the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000.000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAD OFFICE— George and Kin l ? Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—PhiIip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles. E<q. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ; Mon.
Sir Francis B. Sottor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74.500 0 0
£750,581 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. s==s==s
Gen. Mtigr.: Edwd. 1). Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid .Up 4i3,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAMES MUNRO, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A.
J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ;
JAS. MILNE, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Au stralasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial ffjutual £ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hoi.. C. J. Roukr'tk. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The-Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
I
BY
N ord D eutscher L/loyd.
I \; ~ - '■
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
L OHM ANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & il Bridge Street, Sydney.
npHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
X Senes. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet or Ten, sd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12.000 tons, to sail on
October 1.
AFFIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 26.
Si EVIC, PEUSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Kitted with Wireless Telegraphy ami
Submarine SifrnaUiny Apparatus.
Oniy One Class of Accommodation.
FAIiK& —* mieuiwnorDurban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. front 24 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Dav of Railing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Ageir s in Australia.
TH€ RB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. 77 i/rnouth, ami
Lon/l on.
DISCHARGING AT * DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
* Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saioon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 0s to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins oii upper,and bridge decks.
THIRD-GLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on dav of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WINTER TOURS i
to Papua and the Pac fio Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Sept. 23, Nov. 4 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Oct. 21, Dec. 2 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPAR I MENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to ,£25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OYER 31 YEARS.
P ull particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
offic - J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
DIIiEC'iOKS
£2,500,000
£1,750,000
£2,500,000
£6,750,000
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Norniand MacLaurin, Kt., JI.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucklapd. Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors : William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shephenrol Edgeeliff I.aidle.v, Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 305 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua ; and Agents and Correspondents
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable rem Vances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
tLi—FRENCH, General Manager.
Insurance, &c.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
R. M. Phillips, E°q., J.P.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.U.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
D. W. Watkins, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting 1 Actuary
W. R. Day, F.I. A.
Head Offi.ce :
30 CA3TLEREACH ST. (facing- Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland :
Metropolitan Building's,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Metbeurne.
The “ Metropolitan ” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Lid.) ; Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. . 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
Early Spring'
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions 'in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us.
We have received the first two consign-
ments, and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
qPHE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins>Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUAD (In vested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36.000 0 0
Dir i crons : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.C., Chairman ;
John Urice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. .1. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esu., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FUEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Shipping.
THE AOELAIOE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
Vest Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PTRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yonjrala, Sept. 23
(Melbourne only).
S.S. Kanowna, Oct. 15
(To Fremantle withou
transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAV
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Yonjrala, Oot. 1.
S.S. Innamincka, Oot. 8.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on u
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertain*
on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Marwiiiiiii: 259 (*eor<fe-st,reet, Sydney.
F.—H. —vS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK,”
11.300 Tons. p. Daviks, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 20th Sept.
.. » ~ SYDNEV ~ 30th Sept.
.. ~ .. MELBOURNE „ 4th Oct.
.. » „ ADELAIDE „ llth Oct.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining: room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets i.-sued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
l' l° s - LT3 13s. £l5 15s. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
JIcILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
Superior inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
LONDON
England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per day, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.


THIS
WITH
OPEN CO»
LI SIiTHEUA
i- >.
CLIFF g BUNTING’S FIRST PRIZE CHAFF CUTTER.
FOR Mr. Chlrnside’s Special Prize of £4O for the best Safety Appliance for Chaff Cutters
there were 25 competitors, and Messrs. Cliff & Bunting were the winners. The invention
consists of an endless band which travels in the direction of the feed rollers, and presses
down the long straws so that it is not necessary for the attendant to place his hand near the
feed rollers at any time. In fact, it would be almost impossible for him to do so, even if he wished.
Now is the Time to Start Using the ‘‘PLUM.”
Now ! Have done with the old Razor and enjoy a clean
quick, satisfactory shave with the pure Silver-Steel
“ PLUM.” It will last years—in fact, so pleased are
we with the r suits that the “ PLUiVL gives in our
own hairdressing business that we guarantee and will
keep it in shaving order for two years free of charge.
PLUM RAZOR, in Strong Case, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Singrle Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/- (Ivory)
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds of Razor Strops
from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post f'ree.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Send for our
Free Illustrated
Price List.
Craig gAitken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Tir
THe Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES IV. V. VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of*TWELVE. 6d. * Packet of TEN. 5d
KRUSE’S Insecticide
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
V ‘ •
■A\ "
' * ‘
i f ,
3 '
i .
"
r, j
Wm
mints to Me the!
mftor using th»F
m^sf
\".mx
SE’S
k
fiutroytng Bom, M*?
**rf <ni*ry other epecwr
'mtttiea ddtferiw ti l#
■ apptioattontodoii,^-
to ur.ft ‘ '
i&stfter usS.'-c f "' ?
|§ DBUJCTt-
, te4 Mh«r
k ■ A ra>»3
«7 *lll ih'* *PP«"
wlnrt.woraiotjP";,
Brkotti*.
Oon/a) or tiro OB r«J "Aft,
M. Uw **mo pmxa •** a
fsssi'S,"^ 1
SE S
WttrtmiHjf ft *•**. '■
ow-r
*«** fVoftOct a*tttn.
PIK2C
N 2*rt. o»se. wU <ru-p *«!•«» ’
4 n*»3 ow"'-”
inta£ , ir.?£
iml or » 6
tfe* mr.t ?t***
»Ut
R 3«
#*-iftutAKi MU •“ *"
GRIMWAfe
k4&ot«K3FtTs3?*-*
iN. GRtM«
lit TJSS AT <»•'
»WW«
ZV 6r?at Aid to Ntaltb ai)d CoruforL
am
mini.lß
r v'M-97
;«»
1
L-V:\
gr
L@=
V\ v V~
V\
frSt
m
r, \
.«v-
X!
Sargents’ Wedding' Cakes.
THE EXCELLENCE OF SARGENTS’ WEDDING CAKES cannot be over-estimated.
A proof of their perfection is clearly shown in the increasing demand, not only
in Sydney and Melbourne, but practically all over the Commonwealth.
Their superior quality is due to the select recipe and the particular way in which
they are prepared.
Whatever design of Cake is decided upon, whether it be simple or elaborate, of
either one, two or three tiers, there is not the least difference in the quality—each
possesses the same deliciousness of taste. Prices are most reasonable.
Sarg'ents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1873; Catering, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St. < ,ph ° ne ’c**
Hotelkeepers —Confectioners
Chemists
Soda
FoOptaipS
... and ...
Carboitators
that will do
you credit and
earn big profits
can be had on
Easy Terms.
J-
WRITE FOR
PARTICULARS.
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.
167 GEORGE STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents : PAUL & CONNAN, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.


Convincing Proof.
AS no one been struck by the fact that, in spite of the
regular daily cleansing with tooth powders and tooth-
pastes, the teeth (and particularly the back teeth) frequently
become decayed and hollow?
And is not chat a convincing
proof that tooth-powders and
tooth-pastes are completely in-
adequate for the purpose? - Our
teeth are not so obliging as to
decay only in places which can
be conveniently reached with the
toothbrush. On the contrary,
it is just in those localities which
are difficult of access, such as
the backs of the molar teeth, the
interstices of the teeth, hollows
and cracks, that causes of de-
struction of the teeth appear most
frequently and are most likely to occur. In consequence, if
anyone wishes to preserve his teeth intact—that is to say, to
keep them healthy-—this can be effected in one way only—
by daily cleansing and rinsing the mouth and teeth with the
liquid antiseptic dentifrice, Odol. During the process of
rinsing this preparation penetrates everywhere, reaching alike
the cavities in the teeth, the interstices between them, and
the backs of the molars, destroying bacteria wherever generated,
which Odol has been scien-
tifically proved to possess is principally due to
a peculiar property which causes it to be
absorbed by the mucous membrane of the gums,
so that they become impregnated with it. The
immense importance of this entirely new and
unique property should be fully grasped ; for
whilst all other preparations for the cleansing
and protection of the teeth are effective only
during the few moments of application, Odol
leaves an antiseptic deposit on the surface of
the mucous membrane and in the interstices of
the teeth which continues to be effective for hours.
In this manner a continuous antiseptic effect is
produced, by means of which the whole oral
cavity and the minutest recesses which it con-
tains are completely freed from and protected against all ferment-
ing processes and injurious bacteria.
It is this lasting effect, this precious and transcendent
quality, possessed by no other dentifrice and mouthwash,
that gives to daily users of Odol the absolute assurance that
their mouths are permanently protected against the pro-
cesses of fermentation and decomposition, which, if not
m
•a
I
Bacteria found in the human mouth,
500 times magnified.
guarded against, in-
evitably destroy the
teeth. It follows that
everyone who daily
and regularly uses
Odol will practise the
most perfect hygiene
of the mouth and
teeth that scientific
discovery has up to
the present time made
possible.
The taste of Odol is
most delicious and
refreshing. It is sup-
plied in two distinct
flavors—“ Sweet Rose” and “Standard” flavor. The former
is delightfully mild and in special favor with ladies, whilst
generally the “Standard” flavor is preferred on account of its
more expressed taste and rejuvenating and invigorating effect.
IN BANANA LAND
Australia—a Fat View.
(With. apologies to D.M.W.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AIN’T the scrub and timbered flats, ’tain’t
the rolling downs,
’Tain’t the wealth of smiling farms, ’tain’t
the happy towns,
’Tain’t the sturdy dairy herds, ’tain’t the butter
churned—
But it’s Boodle that’s Australia, as far as he’s
concerned !
That is why he’ll never bend his back to honest
work ;
Always at the shady game, always on the shirk ;
Him to go a-soldierin’— Him to learn to drill—
Why, the very thought o’ fight makes him sick
and ill!
He could fancy other lands quite as well as this,
He’s not held by little hands, tied by woman’s
kiss ;
Silly trifles such as those long ago he spurned
It’s Boodle that’s Australia, as far as he’s
concerned.
That is why he always votes for the Tallest Hat,
That is why he always prays for Blessings on the
I Fat;
\Vhy, if he went helping folks, lifting of their load.
How would he get time to hunt Dollars down the
i Road ?
’JTain’t the gleaming vistas of a golden nationhood,
’Tain’t no hifalutin’ of a glorious Common Good,
lain t the lips of Alice, when her kiss is duly
earned—
It’s Boodle that’s Australia, as far as he’s
concerned!
’Tain’t the river pleases him, ’tain’t the laughing
plain,
One thought only teases him: “ What have I to
gain ? ”
I® ll the a noble cuss ? Look at what he’s learned
Its Boodle that s Australia, as far as he’s con-
cerned !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
The Leaks in the Big Tank.
“ Atacamite ” on Australia’s biggest billy :
Saltbush William, doing in a buffalo cheque at Booroo-
loola the other day, was asked what he was going to do
after it was cut out. “My troubles ! ” said Bill. “ Let the
future take care of itself.” Bill is a true type of straight-
haired native all right.
Way back in the days when our beard was black the
Squatting Investment 00. imported from Our Lady of
the Snows driller Loughead, for the purpose of boring a
hole into the bowels of the earth. He bored so well that
he punched a leak into the largest underground tank in
the world. Straightway the Ma State, the Banana
State, the Holy State, and Messrs. Jumbuck, Horny
* At “*[. started punching hundreds of holes
into that big tank. For 30 years they have been
Pouching holes, and the leaks have been leaking day in
and day out, millions of gallons of water running over the
surface without This water is mainly used to
moisten stock, the method employed being to make
mfles of drain to carry the water as far as it will run. A
ni{in who took an interest in one bore with a flow of
1,P00,000 gallons per day, computed that 20 per cent." of,
the quantity might be drunk by the sheep, while the
other 80 per cent, ran to waste. But the bore water has
other uses. Several inland towns use it, and at Thargo-
miindah a bore provides the power’' to light the town by
electricity. In other places it furnishes power to drive
machinery for sheep shearing and wool washing. Since
the town of Hughenden has used artesian water typhoid
has almost disappeared.
The water certainly is not pure. But a chemist in the
Ma State has proved that the deleterious matter can be
neutralised and the water made beneficial to economic
plants. The value of this discovery is incalculable. Our
big tank is under the very driest parts of oiir great Lone
Land, where too often Drought is boss. By beirv able
to grow feed in the lean times this land would no longer
be the land of “dumb despair.” On irrigated land 27
sheep to the acre have been carried in the Ma State, and
3d head of horses, mules and cows in N.E. Australia.
Professor Stretch practically proved that there was a
limit to the artesian water in California. What applies
to California applies equally to Australia. Our bi~
underground tank has not an unlimited supply, as June-
buck, Horny and 00. would have us believe. Already
some of the bores have gonefrom artesian to sub-artesian
Some day the pumps will not suck, and then Jumbuck’
Horny and Co. will do a great amount of cursing. But
that won’t make the lands any the less useless for stock-
raising.
Just lately the Queensland Government borrowed
Elwood Meade from Victoria to advise on water matters
generally. Among other things, he strongly advised that
taps be put on the leaks of the big tank to stop the
waste. Now the voice of Jumbuck, Hornv and Co is
beirig heard in the land : “ interfering with Private Enter-
prise,” “ addling the biggest egg in Queensland’s basket ”
‘ putting a heavy weight on the premier industry ’’—the
same old “ mulgas ” that we know by heart, anrliare get-
ting: so full up of. Nevertheless, Jumbuck, Horny and
00. will be heard to some purpose. Those of the present
crowd in political office who have stock to water will
look askance at any proposal to put a tap on the bore.
They will consider it far easier to let the water run .to
waste than be under the expense of putting up tanks and
wu U ” hl r , tle £f ooc b easy, city member will not bother.
w “fP Jumbuck and Horny whisper to him that this
meddlesome cabbage-gardener is talking through his
neck, he will consider that J. and H. know more about
the matter than he does ; so his votes will probably go
against the taps. As for the State Labor members, most
of them will consider that it’s not their funeral, and will
let it slide. The chances of Elwood Meade’s taps are
therefore, about equal to Mr. Buckley’s.
But our big underground tank extends from the Gulf
of Carpentaria in the north, around the slopes of the
main range as far south as Moree, thence westerly across
Central Australia into W.A. ; and the western rim has
not yet been determined. It is one of our most valuable
national assets, and not merely a one-State concern. It
belongs to all Australia ; and if Queensland will not move,
it is up to the Australian Parliament to do it before all
the water has leaked away,
+
The most recent and eminent convert to-
wards Kid-Philpism is Clermont's Lesina. Al-
though still sitting on the Opposition cross-
HEREDITARY.
The millionaire baby M‘Lean, who is enclosed
in a cage for protection, has arrived at
Plymouth and entrained with a large body-
guard of nurses for London.— Cable.
PAUPER KID: “ What are you suffering
from ?”
YOUNG CRCESUS: “ The sins of my old man.”
benches, the fluent jaw-warrior has become of
late the chief apologist for the present Govern-
ment. Time was when language failed to express
Lesina’s utter abhorrence of that crowd; but of
late the tiger has ceased to roar, and the leopard
is visibly changing his spots.
“ What is the cow for ? ” asked the Too-
woomba Chronicle. The Hughenden Observer
answers quaintly—“ Well, from our experience in
Hughenden, the cow is chiefly used to furnish an
opprobrious epithet for other animals—including
humans.” That has the genuine reek of the Far
West about it, and ought to satisfy the
Chronicle’s thirst for information.
Premier Kidston has been landed by the pre-
sent iron-moulders’ strike in a predicament. He is
a member of the moulders’ union, and as such is, of
course, liable to be called upon to contribute to-
wards the up-keep of the strikers. As head of
the Government he may also, in case the moulders
wax riotous, have to turn loose the police on
them. As a union man, on the other hand, he
may be called upon by his union to assist in
“picketing.” Whether the Queensland Tory
party will expel Kidston from the Government
for aiding, by his contributions, in keeping up a
strike, or whether the moulders will eject him
headlong from the union as a possible capitalistic
adversary and strike suppressor, remains to be
seen. The rags of Kidston’s democratic past
cling to him and produce a weird effect as they
wave about in the present Tory atmosphere.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 17, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Clan Macgregor has been earning quite a
respectable crust this week. The Vision handed
out about 400 music certificates on Monday, while
the chieftain fled to Gyinpie and opened the
Show and an international question in one breath.
Next day he did a like show-duty at the German
settlement at Beenleigh, where the sausages were
yards long, and the sugar-cane reached to the
roof, and the bunches of sugar bananas weighed
801 b.
Our Governor, being Scottish, aspires to dis-
abuse the public mind of the illusion about
Scotchmen and a joke. At Beenleigh, when he
got iip to speak, he found himself, either by
malice or accident, surrounded by all the bottles
that had been emptied of whisky by the thirsty
Beenlegion. “Ladies and gentlemen,” was his
opening gambit, “ I feel quite at home.”
The Welsh harp was blown all over Ipswich last
Monday, when the local choirs came home
with the Sydney Eisteddfod laurels on their
brows. Ipswich took that Eisteddfod very seri-
ously. In the struggling mass upon the platform,
where the almost fainting Leonard Francis was
forcibly chaired, I discovered the Mayor, also
rather near the collapsing line, with about four
inches of ’possum fur around the edges of his
robe. Jimmy Blair was acting as gatekeeper,
and the Town Clerk clutched an address of wel-
come in one hand and a huge laurel crown in the
other; and when the circlet of vegetables had
been hung round the neck of Francis aforesaid,
the effect was something quite exceptional. The
cabmen of the town next arrived in a body with
blue ribbons streaming from their horses’ tails, and
drove the conquering heroes and heroines to a
Sunday-school building (they hold everything
worthy of notice in Sunday-schools in Ipswich),
and there the address was read, and afterwards
everyone took a turn and “ reminisced ” until—
well, I left at 10, and they were then going strong
and may be at it yet.
The remains of Bishop Webber, which some
half-a-dozen years ago were comfortably tucked
away in lead in a temporary plot in Toowong, will
be transplanted to the new red-headed cathedral
on Wednesday, and thereafter the altar, weighing
several tons, will ward off any further interfer-
ence with his ashes.
Death called this week, and one of Queens-
land’s best citizens answered the knock. This
was Mr. John George Collins, the third brother
of the pastoral firm of John Collins and Sons.
You may remember that William, the second
brother, died in January, 1909. Some rich men
are hated, some are tolerated, few are loved.
“ Mr. George,” as the whole of his district knew
him, was one of the few.
Terrible things are said from mere absent-
mindedness. Last week, at a National Council
razzle, they regaled themselves on divided
proverbs. You are presented with half an old
saw like “Many hands,” and then have to hunt
up “ light work ” —just as in real life. A highly
worthy trio of shes were perched in a row, when
there came rushing upon them an elderly girl,
who demanded of them: “Is there ‘ a virtuous
woman ’ among you ?” In a breathless moment
they all shouted “No.” And now they are
wondering why everybody looked that way.
A pretty maiden who has gone to the land of
fogs is Miss Taylor, of Toowoomba, a small bird-
like creature who flies rather than skates, and
floats rather than dances. With her mother she
will view the crowning of the new King, with the
prospect, later on, of having to run the gauntlet of
a presentation.
Since I wrote last week about the dreadful con-
iuct of Queensland legislators, Hansard has
come out; and now every time your Mario
innocently asks a man for Hansard No. 17 she is
told it is not good for little girls. But I gather
that all the language which is usually written out
and passed up to the Bench on a piece of paper
appears in full in the report, and that in conse-
quence No. 17 lays itself open to a charge of “lan-
guage and tearing me uniform.” And the most
crimson of all the interjections is attributed to a
member who, till now, has been understood to be
qualifying for an eldership.
Woolbuyers are descending upon Brisbane,
and the hotel visitors’ books are full of names like
Pfeifferstausend and such things, while the lobbies
after dinner resound to the voices of the Vater-
land. At one big Brisbane hostelry where buyers
most do congregate, the string band was instructed
to play something appropriate. It chose “ The
Girls of Gottenberg.”
Brisbane has not yet become quite used to
hobble skirts, and the one or two shes who have
aired them find themselves at the head of an
admiring procession. It is, however, when they
endeavor to combine this “ standing room only”
top-crust with last summer’s “petties” that the
fun really begins.
Professor Macallum, of Sydney Uni., has shed
his light upon various gatherings of the elect, and
given South Brisbaneites the benefit of his lecture
upon Kipling, revised and brought up to date
since I first heard him deliver it—well, I do not
care to say how many years ago. Anyway, it’s a
good lecture, and there is now a mild boom in
Rudyard among the intellectuals who dwell on
the side of the river that is under flood-level.
The concert of the Beattie sisters, last Wednes-
day, pretty well filled the Exhibition Hall, and
the hard-worked gold medallist who strummed
the fiddle and blew the piano gathered in many
floral offerings from juvenile pals and older and
more critical folk. There is no doubt of ,the
prowess of the young artist upon both instru-
ments, although the violin seems most worthy of
her ultimate pursuit. She bows like a finished
performer already, and draws such a sweet tone
from the wood that usually she gets over-worked
on the evening’s run.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Henry Missing, a pioneer Bananaland
squatter who did some exploring in Western
Queensland in the Ws, went to the big muster
lately. In partnership with Henry de Satge he
took up a cattle station about where the town of
Charleville now stands.
The mayoral cupboards in Brisbane are
pretty dry these times. The Mayor of Brisbane
is proud of having steered clear of tanglefoot for
the last 27 years, and his Worship of South Bris-
bane is a Rechabite of considerable tonnage.
The tobacco-growing business at Texas
(Queensland) looks like taking deeper root.
W. D. and H. O. Wills, who spent £6OOO some
time ago in putting up a stemming and packing
factory there, lately bought 600 acres of land
suited for tobacco-growing (there are 50,000 acres
or thereabouts fit for it), and are asking the Com-
monwealth authorities to let in 80 families of
Cold Country cultivators. Hitherto the Texas
growers have been mostly Chow ; but the Wills
people are trying to bleach the business.
According to a circular issued in Brisbane,
the “call” which a tabernacle sends to a new
parson may be loaded in both barrels —one to
bring down the shepherd and the other to bring
down the sheep. The people who sign this circu-
lar signed also a “call”; but presently the
shepherd and the sheep began biting one .another,
and the sheep stopped supplies, whereupon the
shepherd went to law. The matter never got as
far as the courts, for the sheep paid in something ;
and now the few of them who actually did the
“calling” have got a bill for law costs and sun-
dries with £661 at the foot of it, and they are
advised that they must pay. And naturally they
are bleating terribly.


1 '
M '
JP.
A Pill
occasionally
■assures
I Good
99
THE. CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
A Safe, Sure and Reliable Specific for WORMS in CHILDREN and ADULTS.
which infest the intestines^he^TOntoin^tdfiJproperfes^hicMestroTthe 11 COmp ? unded on a . scientific principle for the eradication of worms
the system. The Pellets are prepared in of a confection and ' h»vJ„ h ®- WOrms but cause no ln J ur y to the stomach or bowels, and do not weaken
them as they would an ordinary lozenge. The symptoms of the presence of worms ISagreeabl6 taste °[ smell i but, °n the contrary, inspire children to take
will do no harm whatever. An examination of the stools is the surest wav to determinp pronounced ’ but should the indications prove incorrect, this remedy
to rid the system of the parasites. 7 t 0 determme the presence of worms, and when found treatment should start at once
This variety also infests the large to mCheS m length ’ the upper portion being thin and the lower two-thirds about twice as thick.
to the female f 8 * ‘ S ab ° U ' ° ne ' third of an inch > this description applying
large bowel which forms the terminal portion of the intestinei These womfranine if-*® fem ? leS ,' The favorite situation of the Thread Wormlsthe
restlessness, irritability and loss of appetite are also frequent svmntoms ltchmg “ “ e loWer passage and picking at the nose. Anaemia
the „th The RoUnd Worm t n .tt s appearance, save in color, of coursl, somewhat resembles
the earth worm m shape. As in the case of the Thread Worms, the female worm very
tTne of?Mrt dS 'i ma e "t 0 ™ m - IZe - Wh!lst the Thrta<l Worm inhabits the large inlcs-
t ne of children, the round worm is found in the small bowel, or that portion of the intes-
J’ f which immediately comes off from the stomach and makes up the succeeding 2 o feet
Worm? and k e mafbe V a e dd U d e ;h ° f C ° mS \* re fTequently also affected with Round
COMSTOCK™ dTab s„OT^I ; y ORM“ 3 Ts“: W °™ S -
Se “ „ Th ,h Pe “ e,S ?' ep "' d “ the f °™ ""'“'conLhLTlo^, o^?: 1 ? disagreeable
l's T dfficlZmh'h W” H ,h T “ the f ordinary Lengi?
" dFarishS - d Wellington, bs M’ 4 ’ !
OOMSTOC/fr
“DEAD SHOT
Children
Sc Adults.


By the Constant Use of
QJTICURA
SOAP
Assisted, when necessary, by Cuti-
curaOintment. These pure, sweet
and gentle emollients preserve,
purify and beautify the skin, scalp,
hair and hands of infants and
children, prevent minor eruptions
becoming chronic, and soothe and
dispel torturing, disfiguring rash-
es, itchings, irritations and chaf-
ings. Peace falls on distracted
households when Cuticura enters.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27.
Charterhouse Sq.: Paris. 10. Rue de la Chaussee
d'Antin: Australia. R. Towns & Co.. Sydney: India.
B. K. Paul. Calcutta; China. Hong Kong Drug Co.:
Japan. Maruya, Ltd.. Toldo; So. Africa, Lennon.
Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U.S. A., Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., 133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
DS-Outieura Book, post-free. 32 pages of valuable
Information on Care of the Skin, Scalp and Hair.
SS
bL
NET
A
TYRES
m
e
ar
\
STREE
231
CLARENCE J
SYDNEY
£3
610
WOMEN
SUFFER More
Than MEN!
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men.
Excess fat takes away a
a woman’s loveliness —
gives her an ugly, ungainly appearance, im-
pedes her gait, interferes with her maternal
instincts, injures her general health and
makes life a burden, rather than a pleasure.
“ Fatcure”
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant cond.tions. It is certain
and reliable, non-poisonous and harmless.
The fat, once reduced, does not return.
“ Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe and
harmless treatment for Obesity. Send 2d.
stamp for FREE TRIAL Sample and full
particulars, or call if convenient. 9 till 5.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
The Oldest Established Pearl Buyers
in Australia. Established 1880.
PT- HIGHEST PRICES GIVEN.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
PROMPT CASH PAYMENTS.
P. KLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyard Street, SYDNEY.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to tempt death by Heart Disease,
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp and we will post, you a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET-“The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequence.'.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney. [i
Fashionafcie
Favorite-Perfume
F.WOLFF&SOHN
111 11111 ,.,1 .1,,,,!:i5W
F.Wolff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
J*ERUN * LONDON
J,
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
QREME LA FRANCE
An Exquisite Lotion and
Cosmetic for Beautifying:
and (riving- Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion, Neck and
Arms—is most bene-
ficial to the skin
when showing a
tendency to he.
come thin, flah.iy
and discolored.
It softens a hard,
dry skin, and is
perfectly harmless to
the most delicate skin.
Price 2/6, Posted 3/-
Ohtailiable only from
MADAME LEIGH, Hairand
Skin Specialist and Ladies’
Hairdresser, 23 The Block Arcade, COLLINS STREET
ENTRANCE, MELBOURNE.
Alexander’s Squash Bottles.
Alexander
Paterson
and
give
notice that they
will institute proceedings against anyone who makes
use of their bbttles which are branded with their name.
They are prepared to give 12s. per gross for their
bottles dirty, packed in straws and cornsacks, and
placed free on board Inter-State steamer addressed to
them at Melbourne—straws and bags extra.
DUGONG OIL
in any quan
tity, obtain
■ able from
H. L. GODFREY, Port Darwin, Northern Territory
iG
B.S.A.
B.S.A,
tu Rs A No 2 MODEL RIFLE is well depicted
Ibo e ve Indt e iust aW “he finest rifle yet produced suitable
forraAge or sporting work up to 200 f \hl Tamest‘pro-
»..ck
looting if required, and in this form it has put up some re-
markable records. . . ~
If you are interested write for Ulus'rated Booklet, mentio
ing the name of your gun dealer, to
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co., Lon.),
5 STOCK EXCHANGE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
B.S.A.
MINIATURE RIFLES
For TARGET and SPORTING WORK.
ALL BRITISH PROOFED AND ACCURATELY SIGHTED FROM
20 to 200 YARDS.
Bolt Action, No. 2 Model, price 35/-
Bolt Action, No. 2 Model, with one-size aperture, rear sight, bi/b.
Bolt Action, War Office Model, 50/- rlnhp R n foresight 70/-
Bolt Action, War Office Model, with_one-size aperture, sight and Globe b.G. lore. i„nt, /
Ditto, with six-size aperture sight, 78/6.
War Office Magazine Model, 75/-
Martini Action, with patent rear sight, 70/-
Ditto ditto, and additional aperture sight, 90/-
B.S.A. Air Rifles, ‘177 cal., 70/-; '22 cal., with aperture sight, 95/-
catalogues
and
PRICE LISTS
FREE.
ALCOCK S PIERCE,
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Postage on any of
above, Victoria, 2/9 ;
other States, New
Zealand and Thurs-
day Island, 3/9.
CHEAP 6PITION of ON THE NOP!
Prick 2/6.
Postage—N.S.W., 7<L j other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
“Scribe”: The Argus shakes hands with itself over
No. 20,000. The paper was begun in 1846 by one Kerr, a
conscientious firebrand, who found two years of hot
water enough, and sold out in 184 S. The paper was
bought by Wilson and Johnston, Mackinnon coming in
later. Wilson edited, though he had no previous ex-
perience, save for having written pungent letters signed
“ lota,” attacking the Government. He had been a
farmer at Dandenong. The first fight was against the
Melbourne Morning Herald, under Cavenagh ; and the
goldfields inrush proved Wilson’s superior ability. His
articles were devoid of literary quality : but they w'ere
on the nail and fired with intense Radicalism. Good
writers were secured in EbenezerSyme and Blair; but
they afterwards went to the Age, established towards the
close of 1854. The Eureka Stockade riot about that lime
frightened Wilson ; he drew in his horns, and the Argus
began its Tory racket. The Age was established
by Cooke Brothers, who sold to a co-partnery,
and they sold to E. and D. Syme. David
afterwards left, but went back on Ebenezer’s demise.
And then began the real tussle between the two. At
various times the Argus has been one shilling, eight-
pence, sixpence, threepence, twopence and a penny.
The Age has been sixpence, threepece, twopence and a
penny. Some liberal instinct of Wilson’s must have led
to Higinbotham being appointed Argus editor ; but he
held the position only nine months, being doubtless re-
pugnant to the other partners, Mackinnon, Johnston and
Spowers. Had he stayed, he would have blocked the
Age. Other Argus editors have been : Patmore,
Jarrett, Watts, Windsor, Haddon, Willoughby, Watterston
and Cunningham ; while the Age’s men have been E.
Syme, G. P. Smith, Harrison, Windsor and Schuler,
■* * * *
“ Moorabinda ” : Apropos “T.F.M.”(B. 25/8/10) and
the father of Australian printing. Neither Thomas Muir
nor George Howe was Australia’s first printer. Muir,
with the other Scotch martyrs, arrived at Sydney in
September, 1704. The first printing—a big lot of Govern-
ment rules and regulations—was done in November, 1788,
by a prisoner on a press brought out by Governor Phillip
iri the first fleet, which arrived in Botany Bay on January
20 of that year. So this prisoner, whoever he was, was
the first Australian printer. I cannot learn that he was
paid. Maybe he had a year or two cut off his
sentence. The press was not imported by Governor
Hunter, as stated by “ T.F.M.” One of the tir.-t
acts of Hunter, in 1796, was to establish a
small printing office. A lot of difficulty was experienced
in getting a printer; but at last, after some years,
George Howe was found. Howe was a native of the West
Indies, who arrived in the colony in 1800. He published
the first number of the Sydney Gazette and N.S.W. Ad-
vertiser on May 5, 1803, receiving a salary of £6O per
annum from the Government. The press and type had
not been used since 1788. He also published “ The Acts
and Orders of Governor King,” th@ first book printed in
Australia. The first Government Gazette was published
in 1832. The first Government Printer at Sydney was
John Kitchen, appointed in 1841; and he was followed
successively by W. F. Roe, W. W. Davies, William
Hanson and Thomas Richards. As to “ T.F.M.’s ” state-
ment that Thomas Muir beat George Howe “ by several
years”—well, this is the first time I’ve heard that Muir
was a printer.
* * * *
From Ernest Low: Re British East Africa and the Aus-
tralian journalists who have gone to buck up the East
African Standard at Mombasa. That journal was origin-
ally founded with the coin of a millionaire Indian, who, at
one time, practically “bossed” all the territory there-
abouts. He ran all sorts of businesses, including up-coun-
try stores and livery stables. He built houses on ground
granted him by a complaisant Government (not without
the suspicion ‘of “backsheesh”), and these houses he
afterwards let at his own figure to Government officials.
Then he started the Standard, which had as its editor
one Tiller —a capable journalist who did himself well on
the dusky one’s rupees while they were forthcoming. He
departed for England without having made the
paper a financial success. Then the Standard
passed into the hands of the present proprietors.
Had some experience of the country in the Backbloek
settlement of Nairobi when I went up from Johannes-
burg to edit the Times, which succeeded the Nairobi News.
Lord Delamere, of big-game fame, and all the Clite of the
country were on the directorate. I didn’t suit them —
my “ note ” was too democratic. I poked fun at the pre-
tensions of the second-rate clerks known as officials, and
even pulled the leg. of the Commissioner, which was
practically the same as pulling the tail of the Devil.
Ultimately I left—or was sacked—owing, as my valedic-
tory article stated, “ to a difference of opinion with re-
gard to policy.” Soon afterwards I came out with the
Star of East Africa—own money, own plant—and
started in to shake things up for the Times. I was
making things scoot round a bit, when I suddenly found
myself in gaol over a “ flogging incident,” my fellow-
“felons ” being Grogan (“From (he Cape to Cairo ”) and
three others, the charge being “unlawful assembly.”
Grogan and two more had whacked three impertinent
niggers outside the Town Hall, while I stood on the
verandah and looked'on. I was roped in because of the
Star’s attacks on the bureaucracy. We served our time,
but the convictions were eventually quashed as being
wrong in law and fact. After that the paper was more
popular than ever, and knocked out the Times in spite
of its swell connection. The Globe Trotter, run by one
David Garrick Longworth, who had conducted the Sphinx
in Cairo, also went quietly out. The Advertiser still
exists, I believe —it is a paper run on the principle of
giving offence to no one. My venture finally collapsed—
frozen out. It was popular, but people didn’t pay ; either
point blank refused on the ground that I drink whisky,
or else they went broke or set off to the Congo to slay
elephants and other feathered animals. The plant was
taken over by some people of wealth who had many axes
to grind, and the paper came out as the Leader—very
respectable and perfectly innocuous.
* * * *
Maoriland is to have an official Labor weekly news-
paper, to be known as The Maoriland Worker. The
preliminary arrangements have been made by the
Shearers’ Union, but contributions are being sought from
other organisations. A sample issue has been prepared,
10,000 copies of which are to be sent to wage-earners all
over the Dominion, and 5000 copies are to be distributed
by the various trades unions. The new paper, which will
probably be published in Christchurch, is expected to
<7-et into its stride in January next.
f " * * * : *
“ Lambton Key” : The Wellington (M.L.) TiMF.shas evi-
’dently found a hole in the Law’s fence during the past
few months, and has appeared again waving another
voting contest scheme. Candidates on nomination are
given 1000 complimentary votes,and then the main thing
is to drag, haul or lug new subscribers into the Times office.
One month’s subscription is worth 50 votes; three
months, 200 votes ; six months, 500 votes ; 12 months,
2000 votes ; and five years, 12,500 votes. For the indivi-
dual who obtains the most votes between September and
December 17 in Wellington and suburbs a first-class tour
of the world, costing £216 7s. with £5O for expenses,
is offered ; same for the greatest vote-accumulator or
circulation-booster outside Wellington: The second
prize is a trip to Canada (£96), via Fiji, Honolulu, San
Francisco, Papeete and Raratonga; third prize, tour
of the Commonwealth (£45 11s. 6d) ; fourth prize,
a trip to South Sea Islands (£32). There are also
several other prizes, and already the Great Cadge of the
contestants has become a popular nuisance.
MENTIONED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To be “ mentioned in the paper ”
Was the one, the life, ambition
Of Hezekiah Sims,
Shrill Tenderer of hymns,
With much fantastic caper,
At the Little Bethel Mission.
But the years rolled fast about him,
While his crimson head grew hoary.
And one sad day ’Kiah died
With his wish ungratified ;
So they sang the hymns without him,
For he’d gone away to glory.
Yet he’d scarce drawn his last breath
When the evening Empty Tankard,
Which contained his own pet views,
And gave “ most exclusive ” news,
In the column headed “ Death”
Gave him that for which he’d hankered.
N.S.W.
POET SCORNER.


Fo
H E
SUNn p" -
rest Devil
The Roots Must Come Out,
as well as the Trunk.
P 1 hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called upon to do is
gi u )bing. Ihe old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and trees is now entirely
revolutionised by the introduction on the market of the most marvellous labor-saving
Tiotr‘l ” V 'ru- ' Ol . mners - ever invented. It is called “The Bunyip Forest
• j 1 ‘. 1 his particular Forest Devil is far superior to any other Forest Devil in the market,
. l t ’t >s the very essence of simplicity in adjusting and in manipulating. The most
< mirable features of ‘ The Bunyip Forest Devil” are that it is not only light in weight
i • c<ln he moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
jlisted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it.
T» he tremendous strain which can be brought to bear with “The Bunyip Forest
makes ‘Absolutely imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely
ioo s and all, no mattei* how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or how
hrmlv it be rooted in the ground.
Many land men, ’ once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their
praises of the unbounded and entire satisfaction it has given in their case, and in many
instances they have paid for the cost of the machine in a very short while by hiring it to
their neighbors.
Convincing proof of its wonderful power and its durability, the quickness with which it
can >e adjusted, the labor and money it saves, will be found in a special and attractive
ca a ogue Messrs. John Cooper & Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued.
Copies will be sent free to every enquirer, together with any other information required.
W hen writing, please mention this paper.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
V
V:
O
.$ [ V? 6X lIJ 01
£
>AV*
cw
t'-'J
A
O
c>
UTIES
Tnc OrYLY /
TYRE /
BUILT ol\\
/ciEranc\
PRINCIPLE,/
. the
1 immm
/ dubbeq e
279GE0BGE/ r
j /YD HEY
4
§
on
AU
WOOL
f Hosiery &
Underwear.
When buying
stockings, half-hose,
socks or underwear ask for
• That is if you want the best.
Jfa6<rrL, h ave a Jj the good features of the
highest quality all-wool wear.
More than this.
wear is unshrinkable.
Do you realise the importance of this ? It means comfort and
longer life for the stockings and underwear.
Next time you are buying ask for
Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, ard Children
In all prices. Of Men's Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock "JlqAgnJ he can obtain it from his wholes
wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for Jason" Booklet and name of nearest Agents to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <P
HIGH PRICED QUAUTV
kwW'W A LOW PRICED CAR
Model T Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1: Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
_A Jarge, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat
4- A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
NAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
“A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE."
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N S.W. Branch Officc : 522 George Street, Sydney.
® The same blade dfl
but a new edge every
" X morning
i
\
Don’t
confuse
the
Auto Strop
with any
other
Safety
Razor.
To strop the Auto Strop Safety Razor, insert the
strop through the razor itself—move the razor to and
fro —the blade revetses automatically at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself—in an instant you have a keen edge. The
.4uio'sirop
k3SSk
is far quicker, handier, and cheaper than a no-stropping razor—
gives an easy and luxurious shave—obviates the continual expense
for new blades necessary; with ordinary safety razors.
25/-
and no The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated, self-s'ropping razor!
further one dozen specially tested lancet-steel blades; one horsehide strop; the whole
expense contained in handsome leather case, size 2 m. by 3J in.
Sold by all high-class dealers. You see it everywhere.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto. Collins Street, Melbourne, and
222, Clarence Street, Sydney.
i
ICAPILLAKTNF, the moustache producer'
A Sure Moustache Producer!
We certify here that, if you find it impossible to grow
a moustache as strong- as you could wish, by
using CAPILLARINE a marvellous improvement
will be made in your appearance.
Join the ranks of CAPILLARINE users—a little
ruhbed on each night is all that is required to pro-
duce a full, handsome “mo.” We send to you
by post in plain wrapper.
CAPILLARINE,
10/0 a jar,
post free to any
address in the
World.
s
r
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 30 Years.


Department of Lands,
Sydney, September, 1910.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT.
NORTH LOGAN ESTATE
(BETWEEN COWRA AND CANOWINDRA),
COWRA LAND DISTRICT.
34 FARMS will become Available 17th October, 1910.
Applications lodged from 17th to 22nd October, 1910, will be treated as simultaneous.
Full particulars, Lithographs, Application Forms, etc., may be obtained at the Information Bureau,
Department of Lands, Sydney, or any Crown Land Agent throughout the State.
5e Q ' ROBERT McDonald, Under-Secretary.
THE FLAG GOLD £ COPPER MINING COMPANY LIMITED
Registered under the Companies Act 1893 of Western Australia. j-y | p )
PRESENT ISSUE OF 50,000 SHARES.
CAPITAL—;£2S,OOO in 100,000 Shares of ss. each, of which
38,000 Shares have already been issued, and are fully paid up.
50,000 Shares are now offered for subscription at premium of 2/- per Share, that is at 7/- per Share, payable on application.
Such payment of 7/= per Share will constitute the same fully paid.
12,000 are held in reserve.
100,000
The 50,000 Shares, of 5/- each, as above, are now offered for subscription at 7/- PER
SHARE PAYABLE ON APPLICATION.
The chief object of the present issue is for the purpose of completing the purchase of the
Harbor View Gold and Copper Mine, Kundip, Western Australia, which adjoins
the Company’s leases, together with the plant on such mine, and of PURCHASING
AND ERECTING A NEW AND UP-TO-DATE CONCENTRATING PLANT
ON THE COMPANY’S PROPERTY.
Directors: WALTER DUNN, Esq. (Chairman), Ravensthorpe, Western Australia.
J. F. T. HASSALL, Esq., Perth, Western Australia.
H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Kundip, Western Australia.
CHARLES GILBERT, Esq.. Kundip, Western Australia.
CHARLES GRANT, Esq., Kundip, Western Australia.
Secretary and Registered Ofjice: RALPH A. ANDERSON, Kundip, Western Australia.
Solicitor: A. H. FOORD, Esq., Ravensthorpe, Western Australia.
Bankers: THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, FOR NEW SOUTH WALES;
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, MELBOURNE; THE BANK OF ADELAIDE, ADELAIDE;
WEST AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, Perth and Ravensthorpe, Western Australia.
THIS Company was formed upwards of three years ago, to acquire and work certain Gold Mining Leases, now
four in number, together containing 53 Acres or thereabouts, at Kundip, Western Australia, and has been
working its property continuously since with good results. The Company’s mine, which is kno'
working its property continuously since with good results. The Company’s mine, which is known as the Flag
Mine, is equipped with an up-to-date plant, consisting of hauling, winding and pumping machinery, and the neces-
dth battery, I ’all in good working order.
sary engines and boilers, together with 1
THE FLAG MINE.
The shaft, lift, by 4ft., is down 300 ft., and levels have been driven at 200 ft. and 300 ft. At 200 ft. about 800 ft.
have been driven, and’various rises have been put up to the surface, showing the existence of an important lode.
At the 300 ft. level 230 ft. have been driven, and rises put up connecting with the 200 ft. level, thereby giving
good ventilation to the mine. . , . . , ...
The work going on at the present time in the mine consists of driving and stoping at the 300 ft. level, ana t e
ptoduct is being treated with good results.
The yield to date from £he Flag Mine is as follows :
SMELTED—I 934 tons, containing 155 tons copper (= 8 per cent.), and 1888 oz. fine gold, value
MILLED—4497 tons, for return of 28410 z. bullion, value
£10,698
8,369
Total
£25,067
According to the Report, dated September 8, 1910, of Mr. Charles Grant, the Managing Director and Mine
Manager of the Company, assays show that the extraciion of the gold by the battery has only been 50 pel cent.
There has consequently been a large percentage of gold lost, owing to the want of a concentrating plant.
5000 tons of tailings, portions of which are still on the mine, have been sold to the Phillips River bmeiti g
There are still at least 4000 tons of tailings on the mine, belonging to the Company, which can be treated when
the concentrating plant has been installed.
It will therefore be seen that the Flag Mine is in itself a valuable proposition.
The Harbor View Mine.
This property consists of two Mineral Leases, containing together 53 Acres or thereabouts, adjoining the If lag
Mine, and is situated less than a quarter of a mile from the Kundip Railway Station.
There is a shaft down 140 ft., and the characteristics of the, lode in the drives are similar to those of the blag
Mm The Plant consists of a 10-head Battery, new 80-h.p. Suction Gas Engine, 50-h.p. Boiler, 3'o-h.p. Stationary
Engine, Small Winding Engine, Air-Compressor, Pumps and Tools. t .... .
There are also three Cottages, and a tank or dam, capable of holding 1,000,000 gallons Of fresh water, \Vhich is
full every winter, situated on this property. . ~ , , nn ...
The purchase price being paid to the Vendor for the Harbor View Mine and plant is £5451 and 500 fully paid-up
shares of ss. each in the Company. The Directors of the Company consider the Harbor View Mine and plant a
valuable property, and this an excellent and advantageous purchase. , , ~
To complete this purchase, and with a view to the purchase and erection of the concentrating* plant out of the
moneys subscribed, the Directors have decided to offer the 50,000 shares as above for subscription. ...
Tiiis concentrating plant, when erected, will enable the Company to treat the ore from both mines, also the
valuable tailings at present on both properties. The tailings at present on the Harbor 1 lew Mine alone are valued
by Mr Charles Grant at about £25,000, which, if concentrated, be estimates should give 50 per cent, extraction, or
a clear profit of about £6OOO, which should be sufficient to pay for an up-to-date concentrating plant.
From the ore bodies existing on both mines the Directors confidently anticipate a great future for both proper-
ties, and, when the concentrating plant has been duly installed and is in good working condition, the payment of
regular dividends.
The present issue of Shares is recommended to the investing public.
The following is a copy of the Report referred to of Mr. Charles Grant:—
[Copy Report of Mr. Charles Grant, Managing Director and Mine Manager of the Flag Gold and Copper
Mining Company, Limited, Kundip, Western Australia.]
The Flag Mine.
This property consists of some four Gold-mining Leases held from the Grown, containing together 53
acres or thereabouts, situated at Kundip, Western Australia, and was acquired by The Flag Gold Mihe and Copper
Mining Company, Limited, upwards of three years ago, since when the Mine has been continuously worked by the
C °T shaft (lift, by 4ft.) is down 300 ft., and levels have been driven at 200 ft. and 300 ft. At 200 ft. about 800 ft.
have been driven, and various rises have be|n put up to the surface, proving the existence of a lode of an average
The lode at this level"contains seven different shoots of from 30ft. to 200 ft. in length, all carrying pa3’able gold
and copper oie. stopinB . tias been done, and, in the oxidised zone large vugs or caves, carrying up to one hundred
tons, and containing bodies of copper ore, are, met with.
Gold in payable quantities is well distributed throughout the lode. % ~
At the 300 ft level 230 ft. have been driven,jgnd rises put up.connecting with the 200 ft. level, and the lode at tha
■Booft. level is in the sulphide zone, and averages sft., and contains gold and copper throughout in payable quantities.
The yield from this Mine to date is:— '»
SMELTED—I 934 tons, containing 155 tons copper and 1888 oz. fine gold value £16,698
MILLED—4497 tons for return of 28410 z. bullion, value
8.369
Total
£25,067
The Conner values are equal to 8 per cent. . .
Careful assay has shown that the extraction of gold has only been 50 per cent., owing to the want of a concern
trating plant The present treatment is by the battery only without concentrators.
With a good up-to-date concentrating plant the extraction would be at least 75 per cent.
The Harbor View Mine.
This property consists of some two Mineral Leases held from the Grown, containing together 53 acres or (there-
abouts, and adjoins the Flag Mine.
The two mines can easily and economically be worked together, and will form a very important and valuable
property. The proximity of the Harbor View Mine to the Kundip Railway Station, being: less than a quarter of a
mile distant therefrom, is of particular value and advantage to it.
There are some £25,000 worth of tailings on the Harbor View Mine, which, if concentrated, would give 50 per
cent, extraction, or a clear profit of some £6OOO or thereabouts.
A return, dated the 28th June, 1910, from the Warden at Ravensthorpe, W.A., shows that 5800 tons of ore from
this property yielded 3011 oz. of fine gold, 70 tons of copper, and 600 oz. of silver.
To these figures must be added the deductions of 2 per cent, copper, 2dwt. of gold, and soz. of silver per ton in
order to give the actual figures.
On the same belt of country the Phillips River Company, whose properties are distant some five miles only from
these mines, has, according to telegram dated 3rd August, 1910, received by me from the said Warden, produced
2612 tons of copper and 54960 z. of gold from 33,144 tons treated. The latter Company’s Elverdton Shaft is down
500 ft., and shows that the lodeTn this district lives to a-'d’epth.
In my opinion the Piag Mine and the Harbor View»Mine, whose ore bodies are very considerable, are highly
important and valuable properties, and with them the Flag, etc., Company should, as soon as an up-to-date concen-
trating plant of its own is erected on the property and in good working order, be in a pbsition to pay regular
dividends. '
The present costs of mining, milling, and general expenses, as shown in our last six weeks’ returns, are approxi-
mately one pound nine shillings (£1 98.) per ton. The last 440 tons yielded 3290 z. gold, value £1033. The returns
regarding copper are not yet to hand from the smelters for this period.
I feel confident that with a good equipment I can pay 35% in dividends on the total capital.
C. GRANT,
Adelaide, September 8, 1910. Mining Directpr and Mine Manager of the Flag, etc., Company, Limited.
An extract taken from the Special Edition of The Mining Standard, showing report of Mr. Montgomery, State
Mining Engineer, states :—“ The Harbor View was the'first of the Kundip Group to be discovered. In this mine
the lode runs north 20° east with a westerly underlay of 1 in 4, having been traced almost from the southern
boundary into the lease adjoining on the north. The main shaft is down 150 feet on the underlay. Near the
N.E. boundary of the lease another shaft is down on the lode, which is at that point over 12 feet, in width, with
8 feet of good crushing dirt. The ore carries sulphide of copper in considerable quantities, besides oxide and car-
bonates ; there are also a couple of other shafts on the lode. The country throughout the property is schist,
which becomes of a greenstone character with depth. The lode is a good, strong one, and the ore body is solid and
clean. The gold is associated with a large amount of silver, so that the value of the bullion saved in the.battery is
only £2 15s. per oz. The following assays and analyses of tailings obtained by Mr. Montgomery by boring across
the’tailings paddock and of grabbed samples of the concentrates and bagged for treatment
Gold
Silver
K
Tailings.
Per ton.
6dwts. Bgrs.
0-286
Per cent.
2.74
Concentrates.
Per ton.
2oz. 12dwts. 12grs.
0-612
Per cent.
12.54
Copper ~
Application for Shares should be made upon the accompanying form and sent, together with a remittance of
the amount of the deposit of 7s. per Share, to the Australian Bank of Commerce, N.S.W., the Bank .of Adelaide,
Adelaide, or the West Australian Bank, Limited, Ravensthorpe, or the Bank of Victoria, Melbourne, which
will issue to the applicants receipts for the deposits paid to such. Banks respectively.
No application for less than 20 Shares will be received.
Where no allotment is made, the deposit will be returned in full.
At any time after 20,000 Shares have b( en applied for the Directors may go to allotment.
Prospectuses and Forms of Application can be obtained from the above Banks, from the Agents for the Company—
Mr. W. B. WILKINSON, Brookman’s Building and Stock Exchange, Adelaide ; or
Messrs. W. GRANT MEUDELL & Co., Commercial Union Buildings, 413 Collins Street, Melbourne;
Adelaide, September 8,1910. or from Any Broker.
TO THE DIRECTORS, THE FLAG GOLD & COPPER MINING COMPANY, LIMITED,
KUNDIP, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gentlemen,—Having paid to the Company’s Bankers the sum of Seven Shillings per Share for
Paid-up Shares of Five Shillings Each of the above-named Company, I/we request
you to allot me/us that number of Shares,upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus, dated the
Bth day of September, 1910, and I/we agree to accept the same, or any less number you may allot
me/us, and I/we authorise you to register me/us as the holder/holders of the said Shares.
Name in full (Mr., Mrs., or Miss
Address (in full) -••
Description
Date
Signature
RECEIPT FOR APPLICATION MONEY.
Received this dav of on account of THE FLAG GOLD AND
COPPER MINING’COMPANY LIMITED, the sum of the amount pawOrfe
f or ... Fully Paid Up Shares of Five Shillings each of the above-named Company.
?0R
(THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OP COMMERCE, Sydney.
THE BANK OP VICTORIA, Melbourne.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, Perth and Ravensthorpe, Western Australia.
Cashier.
This Receipt, when returned to the Applicant, must he preserved for exchange
in due course for a Share Certificate.
To bo Retained by the
Bankers.
To be Returned
to the Applicant.
This Form should be sent entire with the full amoimt pay-
able, xoith exchange (if any) added, for the Shares applied for
to the Bankers of the Company: The Australian Bank of
Commerce, Sydney; The Bank of Victoria, Melbourne ; The
Bank of Adelaide, Adelaide ; or The West Austra lian Bank,
Limited, Perth and Ravensthorpe, Western Australia.
“Womga”: Be the pathetic story those
Riverina pastoralists have been telling Prime-
Minister Fisher, it is interesting to note that one
station in that part of the world, and one a good
way from the railway, South Yalgrogrin, was
bought some 15 months ago by a poor pastoralist
and since sold by him at a profit (so it is proudly
claimed locally) of £16,000 to another poor
squatter; and this other poor squatter held it
for two months, and then sold it again (according
to jubilant local report) at a further profit of
£15,000. It isn’t clear where that increased value
of thirty odd thousand pounds came from inside
of 18 months, and somebody will probably get
hurt in the end. Meantime, however, while
waiting for the injury to happen, a lot of fellows
want only a little slice, and can’t understand why
it is impossible for them to get, it at a price that
will allow them to make a decent living in an
average season.
Senator McDougall, who topped the score
at the N.S.W. Senate election, has eclipsed all
previous records. During the Yassberra debate
lie let himself loose on the water supply
question
As for water supply, I have made a practical test of it,
and but for swimming and grasping a twig on the bank
should have lost my life.
As a matter of fact, the silly fellow was in the
Murrutnbidgee and not the Cotter. Query:
Were the Senators shown the Murrumbidgee and
told it was the Cotter ?
“ Rooinek,” from S’Africa (2/8/’10), about
the Prime Minister who didn’t win his seat last
week:—
The elections for the first S’African Parliament take
place next month, and the storm has burst with fury
in two languages. The Government has the pretty solid
support of the Dutch and of a big section of the English-
speaking Africanders. Premier Botha addressed a
crowd of the latter at Johannesburg the other day, and,
with characteristic pluck, spoke in English in public for
the first time, it is said, in his life. Some unfair-minded
Britishers took advantage of the General’s halting speech
to heckle him ; but Botha’s brains were quick enough if
his tongue wasn’t, and, on the whole, he scored pretty
well.
But, though Botha’s party has scored all right,
Botha himself has fallen between two stools.
Some British, it seems, voted against him because
he spoke English badly, and some Dutch did the
same because he spoke it at all.
The Victorian Railway Department’s mania
for “ making the railways pay” by setting extra-
heavy engines to draw long trains of over-loaded
trucks has raised another, and apparently serious,
cause of disaster. An early-morning train, going
out to Sunshine, lately, bumped in such a wa,y that
investigation was hurriedly made, and it was
found that the rails had “spread” to the extent
of an inch in places. It is over this track that
the Adelaide and Ballarat expresses go, where-
fore chronic travellers on that and other lines
where long, heavy trains are run, begin to feel
more uncomfortable than ever. They remember
the frequent and mysterious rail-leaving episodes
of late, and this “ spreading” is now under a deep,
dark suspicion.
He that chaseth the opium smuggler hath
a trying time. While the steamer Empire was
lying at Victoria Dock (Melb.), last week, an
eminent Sherlock Holmes shadowed a man whose
movements he suspected. Holmes hid himself
between the two railway trucks on a track close
to the wharf, and, as the newspaper report had it,
“he was becoming interested in the stranger’s
movements when a stunning blow fell on his head,
and he remembered no more.” Then, like the
perennial young woman who appears with the
story of the Strange Man who assaulted her, the
incidents piled themselves steadily skyward :
He was in the shadow ; he was stricken down from
behind; he fell insensible ; his assailant made secure his
retreat; a knife-thrust, which narrowly missed his neck,
slit open the collar of his coat and cut his ear ; on the
back of his head were marks of a heavy blow, and on his
face peculiar bruising that is found in cases of sandbag-
ging ; on his arm was a big bruise that might have been
the result of a kick as he lay on the ground.
Just when it was growing apparent that every
smuggler in Heathenbourne had fallen on the
eminent Holmes, some meddling person made a
few commonplace investigations, which showed
(1) that the detective was between two of Tait’s
trucks ; (2) that shunting was going on ; (3) that
one of the trucks hit him on the ear. Meanwhile,
the big steamer was heading for sea, followed
as far as Geelong by another party of smuggler-
hunters, whose energy was rewarded by the cap-
ture of a large number of packages floating in the
vessel’s wake. There was, however, no opium in
any of them ; each merely contained a quantity of
debris and the echo of a Cantonese guffaw.
In ex-Labor-leader Daglish, who has joined
the reconstructed Ministry of Westralia, that
State has a Jokook of its very own. Joseph
changed his coat when George Reid him-
with the office of Postmaster-General of N.S.W.,
and since then he has been relentlessly dogged by
btj,d luck. Which can’t be a pleasant reflection
for Daglish, the ex-Victorian civil servant.
An examination of the “ Liberal ” candi-
dates selected to go to the polls in N.S.W. on
October 14, provides an answer to the mysterious
charges hinted against some unnamed member or
members of the Labor party last session by Wade
and his two footmen, Fitzpatrick and Henley.
Dim remarks were made that if Wade liked to
speak of the events that led up to the arrest of
St. Peter Bowling, somebody would be crucified
on the cross of public opinion. Naturally, there
was an instantaneous demand for particulars
and names; hut never a particular or a name
was to he had. Still, four members were
mentioned in hints; hut the hinted-at thun-
dered denials, and the session closed with
Wade brooding darkly and saying nothing, it
was, nevertheless, understood that once the .Legis-
lature went into recess either he or some of the
party (who, it was alleged, were being held in
leash with great difficulty) would tell the worst.
But not only has nobody dashed or even sneaked
forth to yield the information, but, in ordei
apparently to preserve the secret for ever, no
“Liberal ” candidate has been nominated for the
seats of the four men who were the hmted-at.
The Wade party had a chance to do the crucify-
ing it talked about; but it carefully dropped the
subject. And yet no party ever wanted four
seats worse than the Wade party does.


“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
♦
*
FOOD
is soothing and satisfying. It contains all the elements
of a natural food in a condition suitable for immediate
absorption. ,
When milk alone is heavy and unsatisfying, Benger’s Food
made with milk, is appetising and nutritive.
Benger’s Food should be used for healthy development in
infancy, for rebuilding strength in weakened systems, and for the
preservation of old age in usefulness and vigour.
For INFANTS , INVALIDS , AND THE AGED .
The British Medical Journal says Benger’s Food has, by its excellence , established a reputation of its own."
BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Fenoer's Fond is sold in fins by Druggists, etc., everywhere. 832
m
*c7
PRIZES Value £2250
IN THE
8-HOUR
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 20,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO. 2nd Prize, value £250.
3rd Prize, Value £lOO. And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Sawdy, Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To any person forwardinjr stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAY WATER PISTOL.
Durable, Reliable and Perfectly Safe.
Will stop the most vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury. In-
valuable lor cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more effect on
beggars and tramps than
a watch-dog. Reloading
unlimited. It creates great amusement for young
and Old. Length 5 inches, nickel-plated and nicely
ornamented. Price 1/6 post free anywhere.
~
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, 1/2.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and tnen closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price with full directions, 7c/« post free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. ,L. HUTCHINSON, Manager, Postal‘ Address: Box 3, Ha.vmarket Post Office.
• No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Aooount
Bank of N.S.W.
IP?
Z'
as*
n«iufur^
sss
JirsHfflP
Wjm
A little of
Old
ORKNEV
tbe Real Liqueur Scotch,
is better tban a lot of an
inferior wbisKy. Our en-
tire output is reserved for
tbis, our own brand, wbicb
we guarantee for its qua-
lity, age, and flavour.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents :
MELBOURNE—T. R. .Tones & Co., 366 Bourke Street.
BRISBANE —Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd.,
108-110 Eagle Street.
ADELAIDE —Lord & Heseltine, 90 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON—John McKenzie & Co.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mf.rk.ik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datb Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 25.. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING , CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c.,' with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working tor Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own ' Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
’ Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a;thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, . 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, <fc
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gat Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my price* with others and
save your cash. ISF - Established S 5 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROJT THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED, ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key: to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid .post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d- post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s HandbooJ;--
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 Nfe#-
Rf-citations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and"'
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather--
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
“ D ” makes a just complaint:—
It requires an optimist, one would think, to discover
food for constant pleasure in the reflection that he was
horn years and years ago, instead of more or less recently.
Such a one am I. Every time I pick up a morning- paper
a thrill of gratification—something of the sentiment that
doubtless pervades a swimmer who has just defeated a
shark in a dash for the shore —surges through my whole
being, and I rejoice in that I am not young enough to
have known a childhood when the “human element”
entered into the advertising business.
As I write a copy of a recent S. M. Herald lies before
me. It contains a vast nude photograph of Silas Bangs,
aged one year and nine months, son of Mrs. Bangs, King
George Villa, Empire Avenue, Bondiloo. In the matter of
figure, Silas recalls Dan O’Connor as seen in the hot room
of the Turkish Baths. Alternatively Silas looks as if he
were made of gutta-percha and had'been blown up to his
utmost holding capacity. His immense round face, full
of the unutterable brooding pathos of the unnaturally
fat, is sunk on his deeply-creased chest. He is a blot
upon the landscape and an outrage upon the fair face of
Nature. Lower down is a photograph of Herb Smith cetat.
four. Herb is afflicted with the same gigantic mis-shapen
head that characterises Silas. His little eyes gleam
horribly amid a wilderness of fat: His body-creases are
hidden by a velvet suit with a superfluity of large bows
and about 1500 buttons. If he resembles his picture he
should be drowned in the cause of Art.
My parents were honest and, hence, needy folk. As a
child I was stout. As a grown man I am sensitive to
ridicule and contemptuous treatment generallj\ I
shiver luxuriously as I muse on what might have
been had my progenitors been tempted and fallen.
It is likely that the enlightened law-dispensers of a future
generation will agree not to penalise the parricide who is
able to put in, by way of an exhibit in his defence, a
newspaper photograph of himself in a naked state, done
when he was a bloated and defenceless infant of 18
months or thereabouts.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
SZ>e LEADING
HOUSE
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
Fishing' TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
°” Special Snap
and Pegs.
5 x 12
5 x 15
5 x 20
5 x 25
5 x 30
We also carry in stock Rabbi, Nets, Fruit
Tree Netting, and all Net Sundries.
Bnd/cs
SEND FOR OUR NET PRICE LIST-POST FREE.
perfection, tfjy name is £ rooks!
The Brooks Saddle Character,
Real road-perfection, the fruit of 25 years’ experience, giving
that comfort, security and sense of
power which make cyclist and cycle
into one harmonious whole.
Why be content with anything short of
BROOKS
PERFECTION
Of all Dealers.
i
UNSHRINKABLE
<Sf/RINKASi
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. NIORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment,
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors.
SIR GEORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE, J P.
G. STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers— THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
‘‘Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
o'll lo
»£?ur ers»*»
Terms— One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F. 0.8. any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write for Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: “AVIATION, BRISTOL.” Codes—A r, A.8.C., and MOREING.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC,
BOV R I L
THE MIGHTY ENERGISER
stimulates, nourishes and sustains without digestive efforts.
The Power of Beef is in BOVRIL.
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 101-
Black, Whits,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Posl
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [5
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
f Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
at chemists
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Hu Etui Chemical Co.
Chrmnali, Ohio,
U.S.JL
Ladies’ and Gent’s Watches FREE.
%
Solid Sterling Silver
Rings FREE
Test your Size.
Send us your Number.
N9I
N? 2
N?
g XaSED
e&m Ii.l!
ohx
IF THEY FIT YOU.
They are not made of brass, tin or white metal, but are
Guaranteed to be i PURE STERLING SILVER through"
out, STAMPED and WARRANTED, and are sold retail
from 2s 6d to 4s 6d at all jewellers. THESE RINGS ARE
FREE IF THEY FIT YOU.
HOW TO WIN ONE.
Cut out the inside of the Rings marked No. 1. N 0.2, and
No. 3, and try on any finger of either hand, forward us
the number of the one that fits your finger, and we will
immediately forward one of these SOLID SILVER RINGS
FREE. With the ring we will send you also FREE 12 of our NAME or MOTTO BROOCHES (as illustratedlfor
Distribution Among Your Friends. These Brooches, which are very strongly made (acid proof), and unique in
design, are sold Sydney Price 2s. each, and WE GUARANTEE THEM to be the BEST VALUE IN BROOCHES
EVER PLACED ON THE MARKET,
MOTHER
KIA-ORA
Ail We Require You to Do
is to plaoe these Brooches among; your friends and collect Is. from
each. Return us the 12s. collected, and We Will Send You FREE
A RELIABLE WATCH and CHAIN (Lady’s or Gent’s)
OR ANY OTHER PRESENT FROM OTJR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST which we will send with the Brooches.
Remember, We Require No Money
in advance. Simply send us yqur Name and Full j
Address, and we,will send the Solid Silver Ring
and the 12 Brooches by return mail, postage paid, at our own expense. We know you will HAVE NO TROUBLE
in SELLING THESE BROOCHES, owing to their Excellent Value, or we would not go to the expense of sending
them. We send them out at our own risk, and if you are unable to sell the 12 we will reward you according
to the number disposed of by you upon you returning us the balance unsold.;
All letters must be
addressed direct to
the Sole Manufac-
turers,
Jewellery Supply Co.
Pitt-st, Sydney,
N.S,-Wales.


BILIOUS s BOYHOOD
Tortured by Retching and Agonising Headache—Could
not Eat—Forced to leave Work one Day every Week.
A more distressing case of Biliousness than
m
that of Hr. R. J. Little, of Baroona
Hill, Rosalie, Brisbane, would be
difficult to imagine. This man
was subject to bilious attacks
from boyhood, so that his cure by
Bile Beans, after all other remedies
proved unavailing, is all the more
remarkable.
Mr. Little says:—“l was subject to
bad bilious attacks, and, although I
tried many remedies in the hope of
getting rid of them, I found nothing
to benefit me so much as Bile Beans.
So terrible were the headaches which
afflicted me at times, that I could
not even stoop, and had to leave my
worji with tiie pain. The retching caused by the biliousness was
awtul. My appetite went completely, and even the sight of food
would sometimes make me retch. This state of things continued for
some time, and I had regularly to ceasejwork at least one day everyweek
and go home to bed. A friend who had used Bile Beans recommended
me to try them, and I am very glad I acted on his advice, for after a
steady, thorough course of this grand medicine I was perfectly cured,
l have been subject to Biliousness from boyhood, but I am thankful to
say this trouble has disappeared. If I ever have a suspicion of a
bilious attack returning, I shall always use my old remedy—Bile Beans.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Bile Beans are Nature s remedy for Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles
Swimming 1 in the Head. Soasms, Belching, Heartburn, Vomiting, Anaemia, Offensive Breath Im-
pure Blood, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed Sleep, Debility
and all Disorders of the Functions of the Liver
Stomach and Digestive Organs. Bile Beans are ob-
tainable from all Chemists and Stores at 1/H and 2/9
family size (containing three times the 1/li‘size) or
direct from the Bile Bean Co.. S 9 Pitt Street Sydney
N
A
T
U
R
E’
S
OWN
R
E
M
E
0
Y.
"It relieved my
backache immediately."
A REMEDY OF 60 YEARS* STANDING.
Allcock’s
ggggg PLASTERS
Apply Wherever There Is Pain.
Equally effective for
v Rheumatism, Coughs, Colds,
Weak Chests, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiffness of
Joints or Muscles,
Sprains, etc.
Sold by Chemists Everywhere.
What Ball-Bearings are to the Cyclist,
Ball-Pointed Pens are to the Writer!
they go easy , glide over the surface of the paper without sticking or
spurting, and make writing a pleasure. You write on a ball instead of
on a sharp jagging point— that makes the difference !
Ball - Pointed Pens
are sold by Stationers in 6d. Assorted Sample Boxes.
You’ll be pleased with them. Buy a Sample Box.
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers ! Confectioners!
Make your own AERATED WATERS with an
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to an v others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS :
Eckprslpv ft 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne
lsblieiMey o cons, and 3 Bond street, Sydney.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, 108-110 Eagle St., Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle.
S. C. BILLOWS, c/o New Zealand Express Co., Wellington
and Invercargill.
AULD & SONS, Gilbert Place, Adelaide, S.A.
To the Ancient Buried Ship at
Warrnambool
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEEP in the blown, white sand,
Back from the sea-washed strand.
Hummocks on either hand,
Buried, thou liest
Far from thy launching-place;
Ended, thy long, sea-race ;
Who shall thy presence trace,
Who shall come nighest ?
Say wert thou armed for war,
Bright as the Bucentaur ;
Cannon and culverin or
Howitzers brazen.
Winged, like an albatross ;
Wide yards, tall masts across;
Whence to the winds they’d toss
Holland’s proud blazon.
Thou, from thy consorts brave,
Bluff ships that beat the wave
Eastward ; as on they drave.
How wert thou sundered ?
How didst thou part from them,
Hugging the coast’s grey hem,
Stern facing coming stem
While the reefs thunder’d ?
Was’t under cloud of night;
Thick weather—masthead-light,
Stern-lanterns lost to sight,
Currents embraced you ?
Eastward, still scudding on ;
Westward, your consorts gone,
Wheeling their heels upon,
Red ruin faced you.
Burst from yon height to port.
Lurid flame ; dull report;
Brimstone in evil sort;
Pillar of cloud.
Darkness descending lowered,
Dust-drift down-pouring, showered,
Green forest shrank and cowered,
Ashes its shroud.
Red, yon volcano-glare;
Earth rocking everywhere
Myriad convulsions tear,
Rive her asunder.
So, the broad salt-sea-floor,
Out from the dim fore-shore
Rent with pangs sharp and sore,
Muttered like thunder.
Under thy pausing keel,
Sudden . . . with rush and reel,
Rose with a roaring peal
Water in mountains.
Rudder lost . . . gone thy guide;
Swept, the retreating tide,
Seaward, and far and wide
O’er the spent fountains.
Then, with a booming crash,
Swirling in swift back-lash,
Hurled thee with frenzied dash,
Poised on its summit.
Far past the tide-mark line.
Where, ne’er before, the brine
Left its ribbed countersign ;
Flung like a plummet.
Thee and the trembling few
Left of thy gallant crew,
Ne’er more to sail the blue
Spaces eternal.
Where be thy bravest now ?
Bravely they died, we trow ;
None here can tell us how—
Perished thy journal. ~.
That... and the tale it told ;
How... with thy seamen bold,
Thou hadst the chart unrolled
East.. j from the Leeuvvin.
Told of the Nor’-West Coast,
Plain tale without a boast;
Not of those leaves a ghost,
Vanished in Ruin.
Seekers have sought for thee,
Searchers have wrought o’er thee,
Penmen have fought o’er thee,
Thought out thy story.
The link in the' broken chain,
One day, they’ll find again ;
Point to where thou hast lain
Give thee thy Glury.
VICTORIA.
G. G. McCRAE.
Boarders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN father succeeded in wringing
damages from the company we decided
to make a splash. Father wanted to
splash in commercial waters, where he might
weigh butter and grow stout at leisure.
But mother proposed boarders. We supported
her motion. “Spek,” our brother, by a strange
coincidence, had a boarder already waiting for us,
and bronght him forth to our notice :
“George Bower ’sizname!” he said from be-
hind the towel, as he washed : “ boiler-cleaner rin
th’sheds! ”
“Boiler-cleaner,” we shrieked. “ Who next
will you want to introduce to us ? Where’s your
refinement, ‘Spek’? Boilkr-cleanek ! Might
as well ask us to associate with the dustman.”
(1 q What chou all barkin’ ’bout?” demanded
Spek, m pained surprise. “George Bower’s all
right, let me tell you. An’ if boiler-cleanin’ ’s no
class, what bout me—swabbing out carriages an’
fillin’ lamps?”
Spek,” said Alice, haughtily.
We are not discussing you. I think— How
l ou '' , 8 cr *6d, abandoning her frigid air.
Father, he s making faces at me again !”
, “ Be’ave yourself, sir,” ordered father, raking
the culprit with his sound eye.
Spek ’ was silenced. He kicked his dun-
garees into the scullery and his sister’s shins under
the table, and said no more.
After this slump father buttoned his pocket on
his damages and wrapped himself in a cloak of re-
serve, refusing to rise to any conversational bait
no matter how flavored it might be. Boarders, as
a subject of public interest, had perforce to lie
low.
f inally, • however, the damages went into the
pocket of a lady, who sold us a “ house and four
gents at great personal loss.” Her reason for
this sacrifice was that “she was tired of public
life,” and believing everyone truthful tilll we
found the reverse, we took her word for it.
After a chaotic week of lugging heavy furniture.
breaking glass, and crawling under a table
which blocked the way for days, we announced
ourselves as settled. Father’s attitude all through
was cold. He could not forgive us for selling the
ancient chiffonier.
He probably missed scrabbling in its one
drawer for lost articles. Never within the
memory of man had the missing article been
found there. What of that? Father could
always find something that should have been
elsewhere. That was his chance. Hecould then run
his hand savagely through the drawer’s collection
of bills, books, bootlaces, corks, hairpins, letters,
worn-out gloves and other rubbish. He could
lage and turn them over— scrabble, in fact. Then
he could slam the drawer, and jamb his finger,
and call his family rude names. Now his occupa-
tion was gone, and he moped.
tl I* l waa lucky for us we had bought our four
gents,” as competition, we were to find, for
unbought gents were very keen. Honor among
thieves there may be—among landladies it is
extinct.
One of them, courting mother’s friendship for
a period, wormed from her many details concern-
ln£ our gents’ stomachs, their digestive organs
and the like—what attentions they required and j
what tariff they agreed to. Armed with this
knowledge, it was an easy matter to undercut us
and capture the boarders. We lost Mr. Cubbins
our oldest gent, straight off the reel. He was
lured from us by the promise of two basins of
gruel at bedtime—we had given but one. And
mother’s friend was the thief.
He apologised on leaving—said that in this
world a man had to get the most he could for his
money. We replaced Mr. Cubbins by a lady
boarder, who wanted to start a laundry industry
in the wa,sh-house. She said she could see a for-
tune in it. Father very kindly offered her the
front garden as a drying ground. Our services
too, as wringers and the like, he pressed upon her.
But for some reason she took offence at this
’ Narsty sarcasm she ’ated,” she said, and left
precipitately, two days in arrears.
Misfortune dogged us. Our remaining guests
gave notice in rapid succession. One wanted
change of air. Marriage was calling the second.
Ihe third declined to give any reasons, and as
mother fancied they were connected with father’s
habit of glaring with his one remaining eye, she
did not press for them. Then we advertised
freely. From the dailies flashed forth the glad
tidings of our willingness to treat a paying gent
as our own kith and kin.
Next day at every ring of the bell mother dis-
posed herself prominently upon the steps. Behind
her glowed the hall—the burnished chair—alto-
gether an imposing tableau. But of the ringers
none were boarders. Mostly they were persons
who wanted to dispose of sewing-machines.
One white-lipped and magnetic-eyed person
almost forced mother to become a Seventh Day
Adventist. Another, a purveyor of teeth, show-
ing in a neat case the “patent self-adjusting
tooth, appearance natural, mastication perfect,”
offered as an inducement, after a glance at the
“ Vacancies ” which swung in our window, to find
us a boarder for every tooth purchased from him.
But funds were running low and we could not
throw this sprat, no matter how many mackeral
it might promise to catch for us, and we reluct-
antly sent the tooth-case on its wav.
Soon after this Alice became smitten with the
charms of a young Adonis who boarded at No. 20
round the corner. Seeing “Spek” on chummy
terms with this hero, it was suggested that he
should adopt the tactics of other boarding-houses
and lure the desirable into our net. His duty as
a brother was put before him and Alice’s break-
ing heart made much of.
“No. not me!” quoth “Spek. “I offered to
bring ’im once an’ ye sat on me—said ’e was
common—said ’e was no gentleman. Who is ’e,
ye say ? George Bower by name. Boiler-cleaner
in the sheds. Engaged to th’ girl at ’is ’ash-
tower, ’e was tellin’ me.”
After Alice had been carried upstairs in a faint,
Spek ” resumed :
“ George was tellin’ me the other three narks
that left hirst week is boarders there too. Says
th’ old girl that runs the show is th’ same
bloomin’ identical that uster run this. ‘Gone
inter public life again,’ an’ haulin’ in all her ole
boarders, an’ feedin’ on th’ fatted calf an’ all the
rest.”
There came a day when hope seemed dead..
Mother was fretting over the debts and father
was missing the chiffonier drawer.
We were looking through the front windows at
the driving rain when we beheld him. Like a
very dingy peri at the gate of Paradise he peered
over the railings. One saw little of him save a hat
of mobile manners, and under it a face, long and
anxious. He had foxy eyes and a nose keen to
scent victuals. Upon his chin was a growth
which looked like grey-black darning wool. Our
eyes drew him. He ingratiated himself on to the
verandah.
A modest personality he, whose trousers grew
whiskers where other men’s grow hems. Seen in
full, he was like a rheumy and very tired herring
stood on end. His head and toes inclined
together, so that, sideways on, he was modelled
on the letter C, and the dust of ages lurked in his
lustre coat.
“Er—er—l am looking for board and residence.
You have an apartment? Er—a modest bed-
sitting-room, perhaps. Something to suit me?”
he said.
It was the relief of Lucknow. We brought him
in. He needed little pressing. But a little
while, and he was gurgling pleasantly at the bed-
sitting-room. He thought the portable wardrobe
commendable. The bookcase, oddly enough, was
just what he wanted for his little library—“the
classics, madam, the classics; just a few old
friends who accompany me everywhere. Like
myself” (he indicated the lustre coat), “their bind-
ings somewhat worn. But gold, madam, pure
gold all through. ' y
He was exuberant over .everything, ecstatic
almost, till, happening to notice the mirror—one
(Continued on next page.)


THAT ONE WEAR SPOT!
Right in the Small of the Back*
j , • A
A bad back is N ature’s signal of distress, a call for help from the
kidneys. The aching tells of dangerous congestion that robs the
kidneys of their blood-filtering power, or painful, wasting inflamma-
tions. There is immediate need for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
to relieve the pain and heal the diseased kidneys, and to ward off
fatal and painful disorders. Learn to keep the kidneys well, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will do it for you. Grateful residents of
this city testify. Their statements prove it to you.
SYDNEY PROOF.
0.
sr
w
“Every picture
tells a story.'*
FROM REDFERN,
Mr. James Higgins, 96 Great Buckingham Street, Redfern, Sydney, says:—“Some
time ago I was taken very badly with kidney trouble. I consulted three doctors, and
underwent treatment, and each one, failing to do me good, advised me to go into the
hospital for an operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that an opera-
tion was my only chance, as one of the kidneys was diseased.- I took medicines of all
sorts * everything failed, and X was in such pain that X did not care if I died. I had
severe backache, giddiness, headaches and scalding urine. The day was appointed for
the operation when a friend asked me if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
He told me he knew of a man who was as bad as I was and had been cured completely
by these pills. I postponed the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I returned to work, and the men there could not
believe that the change they saw in me would ever have been possible. There is no
doubt it is wonderful. lam quite cured.”
Six years later, Mrs. Higgins says:—“My husband has been free of every symptom
of kidney trouble ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him six years ago.”
FROM BALMAIN, j
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham.Street, Balmain, Sydney, says:—“l used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a miracle in my case. I
had been under three doctors at different times, but their treatment did me no good.
I used to be so bad that I would have to be carried home on a cart if an attack came
on when working in the street. Sometimes I have been taken to the hospital when one
of these bad attacks came on. I suffered with a kind of biliousness and vomiting, my
secretions were very bad ; I could never bend my back or move at all when I had a bad
turn. The people at the hospital gave me medicines and recommended rubbing in
liniments, but it was of no use ; they did not benefit me. I saw an advertisement for
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and procured this remedy. I only took one bottle, and
was cured. When I finished them I started work, and have worked ever since.
These Pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was instantaneous.”
Mrs. Smith says, nine years later : —“ My husband has had wonderful health since
he used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I am convinced that he owes his life to this
remedy. He is now so well, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PHIS.
Price 2a. 9d. per bottle.
All Chemists and
Storekeepers.
FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO.
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
of our old ones—he was reduced suddenly to tears.
Asking, sympathetically, the reason, we found it
took him back to his old mother’s bedroom in
“ Scawtland.” In just such a mirror she had
viewed her features from sunny girlhood to vener-
able age. We had trouble in leading him from
these painful memories. To tear him from holy
thoughts of home and mother was a brutal thing
to do. He had to be beguiled gently.
He was the gentleman he looked, however, and
forgave us. And, painful as it must have been to
one of his refined nature, he himself introduced
the subjects of money and of food.
Unfortunately, he explained, he had not his
cheque-book with him. It was with his luggage,
and his luggage was in the care of a vagabond ish
carrier, who had not delivered it at the appointed
time.
“ Dear ! dear ! ” from mother. Grimaces at the
absent carrier from us. Pleas for leniency for the
offender by the chief sufferer. He would go out
at once and ’phone the carrier at headquarters.
He would give our address (here he made
mother a courtly bow) as his own, and in the
morning he would, on the arrival of the luggage
and cheque-book, be charmed to write a cheque
fora liberal amount to a kind and trusting gentle-
woman.”
Mother accepted another bow on account, and
asked him what he favored for his initial meal in
our house. Well, as to meals, he explained,, he
was not fastidious. “Anything will do!” he
said dreamily. “ A crust, a bite of cheese—a
stick of celery—anything.”
We were saved. We had caught a boarder.
We would probably soon catch other boarders,
who, like this one, were of independent means,
and would not cavil at a shilling.
With light hearts we cooked him a dinner which
he ate with zest. He made the table rock with
laughter. His jokes were calculated not to offend
the most Methodistic conscience. Even father
smiled.
He retired early. Worn out by the exciting
presence of this, our first-fruit boarder so to
speak, we did the same.
He went out next morning early. He was hurt,
and rightly so, at the shameful dilatoriness of that
carrier. He was going to see about it. Mother
must not be kept waiting for her cheque, he said.
In the most gentlemanly and condescending
way he accepted a modest loan from her, all his
assets being in his luggage, to pay cab-hire home
for the same, when he should have wrested it
from the carrier’s maw.
And then he chirruped, “Au revoir!” and
lifted his mobile bowler and was gone. He hasn’t
come back yet. Neither have the silver salt-
cellars nor father’s studs and watch.
Father blames the absence of the old chiffonier
as much as anything. He says, had it been there,
the stolen goods would probably have been lost in
its drawer, and beyond the power of any sneak-
thief. j
WEEROONA.
Inventors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SAID the Patent Agent:—
There are two kinds of inventors:
(1) Sane.
(2) Mad.
Out of every hundred, about two belong to
class one.
The sane inventors may be subdivided into :
(а) Those who may have stolen their ideas,
and are consequently free from the curious per-
sonal kink that prevents the true inventor doing
any good for himself.
(б) Those who conceive an idea—valuable or
otherwise—and sell it promptly. Neglect to sell
promptly shifts them, as a matter of course, into
class two.
Class two may be subdivided ad infinitum ,
butthe principal heads are :
(a) Those whose ideas have no commercial
value, but who cannot be dissuaded from spend-
ing money on them. Their friends bolt suddenly
round handy corners when they sight them. By-
and-bve they have no friends to bolt.
(b) Those who confide their inventions, under
pledge of secrecy, successively to Smith, Brown
and Jones, and then accuse Smith of having
blabbed to Jones, and Brown of having told both.
(c) Tidal machines and perpetual motion fiends.
It is true that fortunes have been made from
inventions. It is equally true, only more so, that
fortunes have been spent uselessly on them. The
inventor is seldom the man to reap any benefit.
That goes, as a rule, to the smart company pro-
moter, who has the sense to realise quickly by
selling the shares to gulls. The people he sells to
are just like inventors, only they don’t invent.
Many manufacturing companies have a rule
that any invention made by one of their employees
is their property. It is the cause of much dis-
pute. I know of one enormous company in
America which controls thousands of patents, but
interprets this rule generously. It gives the same
pecuniary reward to every inventor in its employ.
The reward is one dollar ! For this the inventor
has to assign his patent rights, and then is given
the opportunity to get riotously drunk on the
four-ahd-tuppence. Drinks in America cost only
10 cents, so he can have 10 “ widow’s kisses ” or
“ horses’ necks,” or whatever brand of cocktail he
sustains life with.
Fortunately, perhaps, the inventing virus is
like African fever. It never leaves the blood,
and breaks out at unexpected times, and so dis-
tracts the inventor’s attention from his.grievances.
The true inventor has no sooner been robbed of
his patent combination cooker and baby’s cradle
than he invents a new clothes peg that can be
turned into an omnibus by touching a spring.
If it were not for this happy dispensation of Pro-
vidence, there would be more lawyers and fewer
patent agents.
The patent agent is a much abused man. He
is really a public benefactor. True, he charges
about four times the actual patent fees; but he
listens patiently, without sign of being bored, for
hours at a stretch, and'so saves the inventor’s
friends from the worst of his rhapsodies. Surely
he is entitled to a reward. Take my own case.
A man came in with a brilliant idea for carrying
the mails to England in '4O hours. He rises 37
miles above the earth in a balloon (at,which height
he has figured out that the force of gravitation
ceases), and then waits for the earth to turn
round to the spot he means to alight upon. What
could be more sublimely simple? He has left me
to work out the little details of the invention
—how he is to get up, or having got up,
how he is to get down again when he is out-
side the range of gravitation. My fees will be
considerable, but he is a retired farmer with lots
of money. If I refuse his business, someone else
will take it. One must live. In three years he
will have to take to farming again, for one failure
will not disconcert him.
I read in a paper, recently, that a man in Vic-
toria had invented a machine for boring a fencing-
post hole in 25 seconds. A client of mine solved
that problem 20 years ago. He designed a heavy
cart-wheel with a 30in. steel stabber welded
on to the tyre. As the cart moved along,
this stabber was to make post holes. Thirty a
minute.was the estimated rate. I drew the plans
(and a cheque) for the patents in all agricultural
countries, including Thibet. He bound me to
secrecy, and would not even make a model, in case
someone should see it before the patents were out.
He has since circularised every farmer in Aus-
tralia and Maori land, but no machines have yet
been made. It is extraordinary how hide-bound
farmers are in their ideas. He was discouraged
for a while, but he is now consoling himself with
an invention to prevent a horse jibbing when it
meets a motor-car. I have doubts of his financial
standing, so will damn the idea, which will offend
him and cause him to take it to another agent.
Stony-brokers are no good to me.
The man who invented the rubber eraser on the
tip of the pencil will have to spend centuries in
purgatory, for he has been the ruin of thousands.
He is reported to have made £50,000. (If so, I
am willing to bet he was not the inventor.)
Every lunatic who is imbued with the idea that
simple devices are • the ones which carry untold
fortunes, points to this invention. That is unless
he instances Edison. Edison really belongs to
class 1, section a.
These simple ideas range from grease absor-
bent frying-pans to bullock-goads worked by
steam. ...
Many patents have great merit in themselves,
but not sufficient commercial value to pay a tithe
of the patent fees. What invention could have
greater merit than the truss for broken necks?
It is guaranteed to mend them if applied in the
right away ; but, unfortunately, so few people
can be persuaded that their necks are in any
danger of being broken, that they will not expend
even the humble shilling that would put them in
possession of this valuable safeguard. The in-
ventor endeavored to persuade Deakin to compel
the use of the truss; but Deakin had notsufficient
foresight to buy.one even for the Fusion party;
so it broke its neck on April 13, and has been in
disrepair ever since.
GALVO.
Caprice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BLUE and gold, and mist and sunlight,
Veils of color blent and blown
In melodic monotone;
Dark and bright and white and dun light.
Clash, and trembling into one light
Seen, as in a beryl stone,
Over green robes of the meadow
And the blue skirts of the sea,
Floating, spread in shine and shadow,
Hymeneal harmony.
Drums and trumpets of the ocean,
Violins of human kind,
Oboe spirits of the wind,
Flutes that breathe the wild-woods’ notion
Mix, in orchestral commotion,
Instruments with passion blind,
When, with chariots cavorting,.
Splashing bridal symphonies,
Horses snorting, banners sporting,
Ocean Seas wed Harbor Seas.
Salt of waves and scent of roses,
Seaweed, strown along the sand, ,
Blossoms blown from lofty headland,
• Now the Ocean Lord reposes
Where the harbor dreams and dozes
Fern and tree on sheltered strand.
Rock-grown shrubs, earth, fragrant grasses
Spiced with sand and sea and sun,
As the gay procession passes.
Form one odor, blend in one.
Over Nature Love stands warder.
Cloud seeks wave, while close behind
Cloud is followed by the wind.
Dionysean disorder
Laughs, and leaps o’er bar and border.
Breaks the shackles of the mind ,
And. in wine-enchanted weather
Culls, from Gardens of the Sun,
Grapes that bring all things together.
Mix the Many in the One. -
To the sun a wave laughs, leaping
In intoxicating air,
Like a child, with tossing hair ;
But a seagull, vigil keeping.
Musical with pinions sweeping.
Delicate and debonair,
Where the wave leaps, dancing, laugning
Like a flash of amethyst
Clasps the wave, then leaves her, quaffing
Nectar that the sun’s lips kissed.
Bird that brilliant pinion flies on
Through the nuptial atmosphere
Pipes a duet, sweet and clear,
With the wind the sunlight lies on
Sea meets sky on wide horizon,
And the distant joins the near.
Fishes hold a merry meeting
In the.offing; tree and bird
Love-entwined, give joyful greeting ;
Secret chords of life are stirred.
When the banners of Apollo
On the ocean bravely gleam
We two wander, and we seem
But as wave and cloud and swallow
That the wedding party follow,
Epithalamium dream — .
Mad with music, but discover
From the throng we stand apart.
All is love ; but every lover
Knows, sometime, an aching heart.
God, it seems, delights in shedding
Love that joins with benison
All the elements in one.
And, to-day, the feast is spreading
Till his creatures all are wedding.
And of sorrow there is none.
Ah, but you disdain my kisses,
Yours, to wind and wave are blown.
All else joys in married blisses,
Love’s outcast, I weep alone.
N.S.W.
LOUIS ESSON.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
used it. Previous to that I
was in very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.”
Mrs. E. Harrison,
Gawler, S. A.
When tired and debilitated, with
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
no^ s now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you are
„ Persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
Just as good.” See that you get “AYER’S.”
■Ayers Pin s are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Sc Co., Lowell, Mass.,.lT. S. A.
TOOHEYS limited
2!s?tlard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Club Rum.
°& Head Stout. King's Liqueur Whisky.
facturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
o* COLLIS BROWNE’!
w '» inut
tS?
Pr|
En
'ces ln
H> 2/9 4 4/6
antf Only Genuine
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and is the onl
speoific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
(JritcMe,
Au
Parker’s
Publications.
£1 Is.
600 pages, royal octavo.
12s. 6d.
[emy o<
SarvaaS,
straijj. ii* •
d °n*id aR d Metallurgy.
of # j'*
t >S. fTil '- t
’entilatio , 230 P a f? e s» demy octavo.
W «U«« 8 “"“ 2S - 6d '
Hew South w 1 ,nilus,ry - 5s -
Vict 0r j a es Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Gold * ts Mining Resources. 2s.
p*’ Donald Clark - 12s. 6d.
, N in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
Collieries
u . 1 • %v Krs p 8 € lds of Australia. £1 Is.
llw *y Map of Australasia. 10/6.
.~ ~ ~
AUStral- I ’°"g'h your Bookseller, or
Mining Standard Office,
Au “ pJ OK !I e iN y ‘^ elbour ne, London.
Che
British*
We,
Australasian
»nt(
Bkly
Pub llahey r ' h al ror Australians, written
Australia In I nnrlnn
Australians in London.
Ce . ~~~
v all thi? , V ’ s ' t London are cordially
Rnnm wlifirA
'L ans
Ab str a i
iv s Peetc,4 Boom where files
t l6 Ljtj.,' Lettera^ s^ra^ttn papers may be
f ( W ° 1 H ' A - Ds ’nuJ ay * Je addres sed care of
B °f a V „f/1 8IAN during the first
o n all V,Blt to Great Britain. In-
i' 0 fe es Ust ra]i ar .„ fP ,cs of importance to
■'Onfion' A Lttl« S Su Pplied by the paper.
Ue Patch of Australia in
Note the a,ij
Ijg H Addr ess_
H H ! 1 !; B0r N (NearKmgsw
LOnd on, W.C.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
1/each post free 1/2
Quality Not Better
i ft a
Gutnea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCOW/STS
SYOU to SEED TOR OUR TRADE UST
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
138 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary /or the Trustees to briny this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsorv
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib. left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price.. . .. .. .£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steei~
locks, walnut stock, rebounding- locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £6
3 Single-Barrel Haimnerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price ■.... .£1 16 0
3 Singie-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at UJO yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 16 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 g
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with everv Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—post'ed free.
0 0
ftllQ'ij
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
Each Capsule bears the name
in
48 hours.
swf-v y
dm)
You Know What To Expect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conelusipn. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news: and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments ! There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every ease of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected.
When Yon Kse
Beeeham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you —or if you cannot sleep or you
are bilious and headachy—to know that all you require is a course of
Bcecham’s pills.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels , Liver, and Kidneys.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/H (56 pills) § 2/9 (168 pills).
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
M
usic, as you like it,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms—torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishness, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
c
KL
o
PILLS
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
honestly and without charge.
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist.' Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
SH I Regd. Chemist,
.11. 11L.1^.J711/Ai_<l_< ? jjy Kxamination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion—protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers. F. C. CALVERT & Co,
MANCHESTER. ENGLAND.
ASTH MA CURE
GRIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty Id expectoration. Asthma, Nerrous Cough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIUMAT’LT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bti all Chemuts.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePoFt
Nature's Gift.
fYAV?
Y.A.V.
KUOUCRREi:
PORT.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerrae Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Perdriau’s Celluloid
Collars are Best!
Celluloid Collars have
come to stay, because
they are so cool, com-
fortable and convenient.
They save laundry ex-
penses and are easy to
clean ; a rub over with a
damp cloth will make
them equal to new.
The kind _we stock can hardly be distinguished
from linen—in fact, they are manufactured front the
best linen and coated with a surface of celluloid to
make them waterproof. They may be had in all the
latest shapes and sizes.at tOd. each ; postage extra,
3d. for two, 4d. for three.
Our Celluloid Catalogue gives details of many other
useful lines, and may be had for the asking.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
Electric Generating Sets, St’eam, Oil
and Petrol; and Storage Batteries,
with all necessary fittings,
Lamps, etc., for complete installations.
Write •for particulars to
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
the original and
genuine BALATA-
TRADb.
sae
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIEI
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a »u,
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK
Sole
Importers:
Hardie & co "
West Circular Quay,
npHE BULLETIN POST uai;'- , k ;
X Series. IV.. V., VI. Packet of i
Packet of Ten. sri.
The Most Wholesome Spirit Obtainable.
A real
Health
Tonic.
m^mvw
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
E
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
SENTINEL
Highest Economy
and Efficiencyj gi
special Designs to meet all requ' re,ne
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES ,
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Rel
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS,
The Best High=Pressure Trap now in
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering s ur
J WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd ,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s
Melbourne; 8 A.M.P. Buildin|sj fisi)3
THE
ELECTRIC Sheep Shearing Machine
Simple Light —-Portable Economical.
WRITE
FOR INFORMATION
May be suspended from any position inside or outside of shed.
No overhead shafting required. Same standard Wolseley Handpieces use
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Sole Agents,
MILLER’S POINT, SYONE *
TEL .
f 3236
1 5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATE SEND ON TYNE.
162 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
AH Sizes carried in Stock .
SINGLE AND DUPLEX
FOR
BOILER FEEDING ,
TANK PUMPS,
MINE SINKING,
CYANIDE WORKS, etc .
"ri:
Every Pump Guaranty^
Estimates Furnished'
Prices and Catalogues 0
application to
SOLE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALASIA :
PARKE it LACY GO. LTD.,
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney*
s
&
&
vO*
X*
aO
%v*
srt
&V
&
xc#
>AP
JK
o'*
sN
ME IiTD
263 George Street, Sydney; 525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
oncen traT ORe
® c^eei\i
B and M
