

DEWAR’S-THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. Car. «£& GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fir
Recke-Ruston
Positive Valve Gear
Steam Engines Heaviest Duty.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBAHT.
fiadley’s Orient fiotel.
piONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
I
4
Take it back.*
I must have
HUTTON* 5
fine Apple Brand
MAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organa.
h
ĥ
ħ
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prixe Medals.
QMhclU, J 9.
Cd &
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
h
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
DON’T BUY CAST-IRON PIPES OF ANY SIZE TILL YOU ENQUIRE ABOUT
MANNESMANN WELDLESS STEEL PIPES
Engineers everywhere are expressing themselves strongly on the advantages of these unbreakable Steel Pipes.
AGENT S - NOTES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET.
PABCO ROOFING
(WHITE MALTHOID).
Pabco Roofing has established a Record for efficiency unapproached by any other
Ready Roofing.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
ĥ
THE* CLYDE
NGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c - A - LTD " “The Hercules** Refrifterating Machine.
63 PITT
HELIDON SPA WATER
P/ease choose your ™ SPA ” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise .
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.31._N0. 1598.]
[Thursday, September 29, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


THE BEST SELLERS,
— ■ - ■ - *
ROBERTSON'S, 238 PITT STREET
We Obtain Special Editions for Australasia by Purchasing Large Quantities, consequently
WE SELECT ONLY THE BEST.
Here are a few of our most recent importations, all 3s. 6d, posted 4s.
FLORENCE BARCLAY : THE ROSARY, by far the Most Popular Book To-day.
Rajah’s People,
D. G. Phillips : White Magic.
O. E. Mulford : Hopalong Cassidy.
J. Oppenheim : Doctor Rast.
P. Wentworth : Marriage Under the Terror.
Robert Barr: The Sword Maker.
J. C. Lincoln : Depot Master.
R. W. Chambers’s Green Mouse.
B. M. Croker's Fame.
M. Nicholson : The Lords of High becisioo.
OUR NEW BOOK THIS WEEK IS-
HAROLD McCRATH’S THE SPLENDID HAZARD.
As delightful a love romance as any that has come from McGrath’s fertile brain.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote,”
ĥ
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
Of the Lungs.
KU
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
DSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London
Agencies in all
The RED PAGE
Wanted—The Best Ten
On the outer frieze of the National Art
Gallery in Sydney there are the names of
some famous artists of the old world whose
works are not to be found inside. Perhaps the
authorities hoped the names would be an in-
spiration to the artists of the new world, or
perhaps they put them there as a guarantee
of good faith. It is certainly better to have
them than the name of the mayor or
governor who did the silver-trowel act on the
foundation stone. But Michael Angelo,
Rubens and the rest did not need the
advertisement.
If the official mind should suddenly
awaken to the fact that there are no names
of authors on the outside of the Mitchell
Library building, the chances are that Homer,
Shakespeare and other eminently safe per-
sonages would get the ad. The place for such
inscriptions, if any are wanted, is outside the
Public Library building. The Mitchell
Library is mainly Australian. It is already
the largest collection of Australiana ; and, in
time to come, will be a great national library.
If any names are placed outside this building
they should be Australian. The pioneers of
literature and art in Australia should receive
honor in their own country.
Will Bulletin readers suggest the names of
ten Australian writers or artists, living or
dead, who are worthy of being commemorated
in such a way—not necessarily men of Aus-
tralian birth, but those whose work was done
in Australia or is Australian in character ? Of
course, the Library trustees are not bound
to accept the suggestion.
The ten names should be placed in order
of merit, and your reasons for the selection
f.ven in a hundred words or thereabouts.
1 Is. will be paid to the first sender of the
list containing the names in the order
which agrees with or is nearest to that
of the first ten in the total vote; 10s. 6d.
to the second. Contributions printed will
be paid for. They should be sent (ad-
dressed “ The Editqr of the ‘ Red Page ’ ”)
so as to reach The Bulletin office before the
10th November next.
The City of Beautiful Night
Long years past, the story goes, a shark
and an alligator met in mortal combat near
where the water now laps the stairs of the
Customs House. Whether Soura, the alliga-
tor, or Baya, the shark, was victor history
telleth not; but through that meeting of the
monsters, Sourabaya, the principal commer-
cial centre of the Dutch East Indies, is said
to have derived its name. Personally, I shall
remember it as the City of Beautiful Night.
' The hot day under which the Dutch villas
show blinding white, and the dirty canal
waters crawl sluggard wise, closes suddenly :
The sun’s rim dips, the Dutch rush out;
With one stride comes the dark.
They rush out in lighted motors, in car-
riages, on bicycles and by the thousand in
hired “ dokkars,” which is the nearest
the Malay pronunciation can get to dog-
carts. So great a variety of wheeled
things I did not know existed. Such
a multiplicity of noises issuing from
the vehicles bespeak many inventions in
phonetics. The well-to-do native popula-
tion, including Chinese and Arabs, make up
a large proportion of the sounding throng
running through the garden streets, by star-
litten canals and under miles-long avenues
of tamarind trees. Possibly from their
equipages come the cruder cadences. Bells,
trumpets, cuckoo-calls, whistles, hoots,
whimpering shrieks and a musical stave from
some well-known air, all used as warnings
for the other fellow to have a care where
he is driving; for all travel at high speed
and the footpath is more often absent than
present. All the one-storeyed white villas
are lighted without on the deep, tiled veran-
dahs, or “ front galleries ” as the Dutch call
them. Not glass, but iron rods are in these
windows, shuttered during the day-time
heat. When a Dutch householder is not
drifting, or his wife shopping, they are taking
the air of the close, electric night, with
their family and guests seated on the
front gallery, under bronze hanging-lamps
against a background of climbing plants ;
or they may be playing Bridge in
the lighted garden. There will come
no breeze to stir the- flame of the
lamps. Or possibly they may be at one
of the open-air restaurants listening to
an Austrian or Hungarian band. Eight-
thirty is the usual dinner hour in Java,
but 9 o’clock is not uncommon. By 10,
after a good dinner, the Dutch have
retired and the streets are deserted save by
native pedestrians going their barefooted
way, and the travelling restaurant carrier
with his plates of native food, little oil lamp
and tiny charcoal stove. Native watchmen
keep ward over the white villas ; the hours,
struck out with clubs on hollowed logs,
resound with a sullen resonance through
the land and the tamarind-belted city, still
gleaming with lamps through all its garden
ways, is very soundly asleep.
There are hundreds of miles of roads made
cloister-like by the shade of gigantic tama-
rinds or kenaries. Under Dutch compul-
sion, fora hundred years the native rulers
have been making roads and planting them
with shade trees. Nature liberally waters the
Garden Island, the natives have con-
served the rains for irrigation, and dug wells,
and the birthrate is amazingly prolific. Four
lines from “ The Light of Asia ” fairly ob-
trude themselves for quotation :
For holy books teach when a man shall plant
Trees for the travellers’ shade, and dig a well
For folk’s comfort, and beget a son.
It shall be good for such after their death.
Office chairs of Dutch statesmen are
already creaking with the weight of thought
their occupants are taking for the day after
to-'morrow : what to do—with the com-
ing surplus population. Javais some 500 miles
long by 50 miles broad, and its population
is approximated at 32,000,000. The Dutch
might withdraw from the island for a year
and leave the cholera, native riders and
internal strife to solve the problem ; but no
one seems to have suggested this solution.
Java is no place for a poor white, and
Dutch surveillance is so strict that no dere-
lict has a chance of entrance. Amongst the
natives there can be no legitimate poverty
because their food is so cheap. A root of
tapioca, for instance, on which an adult
might subsist for a day, costs half a cent.
Five cents go to the coin that equals the
English penny. In the market place at
Sourabaya, an area that corresponds with
our Paddy’s Market, an average of 10,000
guelders are taken every day in cents and
half cents.
Ninety per cent, of the cattle in Java come
from Australia ; the rolls we ate in the hotel
were made from Australian flour, and the
butter, from which we turned aside in haste,
wasan Australian product. Butter throughout
the East is awful. Like Macbeth’s offence,
it smells to Heaven ; but residents, so far as
it is concerned, would seem to lack the
senses of smell and taste. It is scarcely
necessary to mention that the butter does
not arrive in that condition. To quote the old
beau in “ Florodora,” “ it’s the climate ; it’s
the climate ” that’s at fault. The Dutch
understand hotel management from roof to
basement, from soup to nuts—all but the
afternoon-tea faget of the business. At five
in the afternoon your tea, with a tiny saucer
of sugar and a little jug of hot condensed
milk, is put on the table that stands on the
verandah outside every bedroom door. Once
I asked for something to eat with my tea. I
was given a big chunk of bread and two little
mounds of plum jam and the awful butter.
Though I never touched any of these
“ extras, ’ they continued to be 6 o’clock
arrivals for the rest of the time we stayed at
the hotel. The Javanese “boy” who
attends you rarely does any independent
thinking. On one of the Dutch liners I one
morning told the Hassan who looked after
my cabin to let me have a bucket of hot
water at 11. Next morning, at -the
same hour, he also delivered one and
a brilliant smile to me as I sat on
the deck with my friends. But I
believe he was a new “ boy.” The trained
and tried servants at the Sirnpang and
the Hotel des Indes made us .unpatriotic-
ally mad with our Alien Restriction Act.
All the same, no wages could tempt a
Javanese to a colder country than his own.
Those coming here on the Dutch boats rarely
make a second trip. In fairness to our own
servitors, it must he said that one of them
is equal to about two and a half Javanese in
working power. And not until we stayed at
the des Indes, In Batavia, did we see a
Javanese quicken his leisurely movements.
The reason was the manager of that
hotel. He was as a well-bred whirlwind,
yrith eyes for everything and .everyone.
At the Sirnpang, our respective Ilassans
and Mohamecs slept on grass mats, with
a dandy little red or other-hued pillow
apiece, on the verandahs outside our rooms.
They seem to sleep easily anywhere so long
as it’s not on the ground. In the bazaars I
have seen a native, sleeping soundly on a
foot-wide board slanted on a kerosene case.
Two bamboos, somewhat thicker than a man’s
wrist, sloped on an upturned wheelbarrow,
was another native’s couch.
\ Javanese, from coolie to prince, love dis-
play. A “boy”—quite an old boy for a
Javanese—in the service of a Dutch friend
of ours, had been for many years a mandor,
or, as we would say, head waiter. His wage
would be some 30 or 40 guelders a month.
When he had sedulously saved his earnings
during all the years of his service he left his
job and spent everything on a great feast to
his kampong or village. Then he took ser-
vice again as a mere “ boy ” at the (about)
usual rate of 12 gueldersa'month. “Doyou
not regret,” his employer asked him,
“ wasting all \your savings on that foolish
feast and having to begin all over again ? ”
The native’s eyes flashed at remembrance of
the revel, “ Oh, no ; I shall never regret
it,” he replied. “It is now three years since
I gave the feast, and the kampong talks of
it yet. It will be talked of while I lhe.”
The charm of Sourabaya for the stranger
is summed up in the kaleidoscopic life, Dutch
and native, of its commercial streets, its open-
air restaurants, the pageantry made up of irri-
gation and agriculture where rice, sugar-cane
and tapioca are cultivated; and the evergreen-
ness and beauty of its jungle hedges—cocoa-
nut palms, and bananas, and bamboos so thick
that they are utilised for drain pipes and the
carrying of water, and bamboos slender and
feathery, yet so tall that they suggest that
they are sweeping the cobwebs out of the sky.
A. CONOR O’BRIEN.
The Best Sellers
“People read more fiction than anything
else, and women read more than men.
Hence the most popular books are novels
which appeal most strongly to women. A
strong plot, plenty of sentiment, some
humor and a happy ending—that’s what they
like as a steady thing.” This, from a Syd-
ney bookseller, is probably true for Aus-
tralia,
“ The author’s name does not sell a book
nowadays,” said a Bookstall manager of long
experience. “Of course, the success of one
book will bring inquiries for the author’s
next; but if it is not up to the mark the
word is quickly passed round, and down it
goes. Even Kipling’s name did not make
much of a sale for Actions and Reactions.
There is still a big demand for Wells’s Ann
V&ronica, partly because of its emphatic sex
interest ; but there is -very little sale for
Mr. Polly. Some writers keep an even level
and sell all the time, such as Corelli, Caine,
Haggard and Pemberton. But new writers
have every chance of topping the sales if
they supply the stuff that the public wants.
Occasionally an Australian book has a very
good run.”
All the leading bookshops and libraries in
Sydney say that the book most in demand
just now is The Rosary, by Florence Barclay.
The writer, apparently English, is not a
new hand, but is hardly known, and this
book bad no preliminary puffs.
The story is a sentimental one with very
little action—the romance of a plain woman
and a blind man. It begins in this way:
Oh. I. Enter —The Duchess.
The peaceful stillness of an English summer
afternoon brooded over the park and gardens at
Overdone. .. . Beyond—the .wide park ; clumps
of old trees, haunted by shy, brown deer; and,
through the trees, fitful gleams of the river—a
narrow, silver ribbon, winding gracefully in and
out between long grass, buttercups and cow
daisies. The Sundial pointed to four o’clock.
That’s the right atmospheric note to strike at
the beginning. The reader’s soul is wrapped
in peace and respect. Then comes the
Duchess to prepare the way for he? niece,
the heroine—a plain girl (handsome heroines
are American), full of Soul, who is discovered
to have “a voice.” Her song, called “The
Bosary,” which forms the leitmotif of the
story, will give an idea of the mixture of
love and religion which women like :
The hours I spent with .thee, dear heart,
Are as.a string of pearls to me ;
I count them over, ev’ry one apart,
My rosary, rny rosary.
Each hour a pearl, each pearl a prayer,
To still a heart in absence wrung ;
I tell each bead unto the end, and there—
A cross is hung.
O memories that bless and burn ! -
O barren gain and-bitter loss !
I kiss each bead and strive at last to learn
To kiss the cross ... to kiss the cross. .
There was as much unanimity about plac-
ing the next two :
Simon the Jester —Locke.
The Dop Doctoi —Dehan.
The position of Simon shows that the artist
has a chance of popularity if he tells a good
story. Dehan is a new writer, whose con-
struction is clumsy; but he carries the
reader over the crudities by sheer vigor.
“South Africa and India” says one libra-
rian, “are the most popular localities in
fiction just now. Queer things about
strange places always attract readers.”
As to the second three, the lists vary.
George Robertson and Co. say that their
next best sellers are :
4. The Green Mouse —Chambers.
5. The Rajah’s People —Wylie.
6. The Sword Maker —Barr.
At Dymock’s Library these fill the places :
4. A Modern Chronicle —Churchill.
5. Tower of Ivory —Atherton.
6. White Magic —Phillips.
The three authors are American. Says
the manager: “On the whole, American
authors are more popular than English.
In the case of Chambers, readers do
not like flimsy yarns like The Green
Mouse so well as his society novels
—The Danger Mark, The Firing Line,
etc. Yet anything by McCutcheon sells.
Perhaps it is partly due to the Harrison
Fisher illustrations. In the Library, English
books which are “ reading ” very well are
Temple Thurston’s Greatest Wish in the
World and Gity of Beautiful Nonsense. And,
outside of fiction, My Memoirs by Princess
Murat. There are very few inquiries for
Meredith ; none for Hardy.”
The Lockley Library says :
4. The Fortune Hunter —Yance.
5. The Green Mouse —Chambers.
6. Drums of War —Stackpoole.
“Also Gertrude Page’s Rhodesian stories, lan
Hay’s A Man’s Man, and the Australian Mrs.
Gunn’s We of the Never-Never.”
The Sydney Book Club introduces a non-
fiction element:
4. In Lotus Land Japan —Ponting.
5. What's Wrong with the World —Chesterton.
6. The Making of Australia —Foster Fraser.
“Add another novel—Crispe’s Gorry
Thorndylie , *Mrs. John Lane’s According to
Maria, and We of the Never Never.”
Miss Peacock, of the Roycroft Library,
says that after the first three, O. Henry,
Anatole France in English, Foster Fraser,
Oppenheim and Gertrude Page jostle one
another in the ruck, and can’t be placed.
“ The anonymous Letters to My Son will pro-
bably have a vogue like The Englishwoman’s
Love Letters; the demand is just beginning.
Every now and then there is a rush for a
particular book, such as The Woodcarver of
’Lympus , when there isn’t a copy to be had.
Nothing makes people want a book so
badly as being unable to get it. A
tew months after the supplies arrive,
;he demand dies down. A novel that
asts over six months is exceptional. . . .
The best books for us are the good, safe,
steady-going Hocking, Oppenheim, Oxenham
and McCutcheon. I never read them ; but
I love them—they pay for the failures. . . .
Short stories don’t go, as a rule. O. Henry
s fairly popular amongst men ; women don't
care for him ; but then a woman’s sense of
humor is—well—different.”
* » * «r
There is a moral in this for young men
and maidens who are going in for the busi-
ness of fiction writing, which is this:
there are nine and forty ways of writing
popular novels, and forty-eight are bad.
-————fh
The King’s Colonists (Wm. Brooks and
Co.) is a little play for children, of which the
words, music and illustrations are all pro-
vided by Mrs. Helen Ashton. The music
has been lithographed from the author’s
script, and can be read without any trouble.
The sentiment is ultra loyal; but Victor
Trumper and the bunyip are not forgotten ;
and the “Song of the Swagmen ” is rich
with the odor of gum leaves and damper.
A handsome paper-covered volume of
Some Children’s Songs, by Marion Alsop
(words by Dorothy McCrae and designs by
Edith Alsop), comes from George Robertson
and Co. Of the five songs, “ Bubbles ” has
the prettiest setting. All of them are good
for kiddies, and the book should be popular
in schools and nurseries. The printing is
excellent. Unfortunately it was done in
Scotland. Local composers say that Aus-
tralian printers have never succeeded with
music. Perhaps they have not had a fair
chance.
The Sydney Sun did itself proud in welcoming
the Dutch sador3 ; but T'i Beazley exceeded his
poetic license in one line of “The Return to
New Holland'”:
“And Hartog’s name and Tasman’s fame,
And Tasman s waiting bride,
Shall rest enshrined in every mind
Throughout Australia wide.”
’Twas a pleasant story that made Abel Tasman
madly in love with Maria van Diemen, daughter
of the Dutch Governor at Batavia. The old man,
to get rid of the poor suitor, sent him off exploring.
The young man discovered capes and islands, and
named some of them after his true love; and when
he got back the girl was handed over. E. A.
Petherick traced the growth of the legend back a
long way, and gave the facts in that useful publi-
cation of his, The Torch, in 1887. The myth had
been exploded before then, but such things die
hard. At the time Tasman left on his celebrated
voyage in 1642, Maria was the wife of Governor
Van Diemen, and they had no children; Tas-
man was already married and middle-aged.


JL
w aae
The Triumph Ansonia, Black Walnut, Plate
Glass' Mirrors, Silver Cupids, Eight-Day, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, 24£in.;
Dial, 6in. 27/-
WORLD
RENOWNED
ANSONIA CLOCKS
|! Anthony Horderns’
4 Famous Low Prices
The Arditl Ansonia, Eight-Day Marble
Clock, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
Height, 9£in.; Width, ll|in.; Dial, 6in. 39/-
TERMS —
The Barco Ansonia, Eight Day
Marble Clock, Half-hour Strike.
Height, 12£in.; Width, 9in.; Dial,
' sin. 42/-
The Berlin Ansonia, Enamelled Iron,
Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong. Height, 9£in.; Width, 11 Jin.; Dial,
sin. 24/-
I!lust rated Price
Lists Post Free .
The Berkley Ansonla, Black Walnut, Eight.
Day Clock, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
Height, 22Jin. 12/6.
The Andes Ansonia, Black Walnut Eight-Day
Clock, Half-hour Strike. Height, 22in.; Dial,
Cin. 11/6.
SPOT CASH.
1
The Monarch Ansonia, Black Walnut,
Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong. Height, 24Jin.; Dial, 6in. 27/-
The King: Ansonia, Black
Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour
Cathedral Gong. Height,
Dial, 6in. With Alarm, 20 /■
out Alarm, 18/6.
Walnut
Strike,
24in.;
■; with-
The Windsor Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock, Silvered Cupids,
Plate-Glass Mirrors, Half-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong. Height, 21 Jin;
Dia., Sin. 23/-
\7
The Parisian Ansonia, Black Wal-
nut Eight-Day Clock ; Half-hour
Cathedral Gong Strike. Height,
23in. ; Dial, 6in. 18/-
The Bright Ansonia, Fancy Gilt Clock,
One-Day Time. Height,' 6&in. ; Porce-
lain Dial, 2in. 10/-
The Capri Ansonia, Enamelled Iron Eight-Day Clock,
Half-hour Strike; Cathedral Cong. Height, 12Jm. i
Width, 15in. ; Dial, sin. 38/6.
The Pinafore Ansonia. Eight-Day Marble Clock, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, 9jin.; Width. 14jin.; Dial,
sin. 52/-
The Brook Ansonia, Fancy Gilt
Clock, One-Day Time. Height,
s}in. ; 2in. Porcelain Dial, 10/-
The Beaver Ansonia, Black Walnut Eight-Day
Clock, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
Height, 22£in. ; Dial, 6in. 12/6.
The Venice Ansonia, Eight-Day Iron Clock, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, lOJin. ; Width, 16£in. ;
Dial, s£in. With Visible Escapement, 35/-
The Auber, Eight-Day Marble Clock, Half
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, 9£in.
Width, lOJin.; Dial, sin. 36/•
The renowned Ansonia Clocks set a standard of accuracy the world over.
The immense assortment offered at the New Palace Emporium is greater than
can be obtained elsewhere south of the Line, and our unique system of
Spot Cash Trading enables us to offer these reliable Timepieces at Bottom Prices.
ma&tir, ■ • - .uSth*
The. Aden Ansonia, Black Walnut Eight-Day
Clock, Half-hour Strike. Height, 22in.; Dial,
6in. 11/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade BOOKS.
How to Woo
and Win.
THE ART AND
ETIQUETTE OF
Love and Courtship
The Best Lover’s Guide
Ever Published.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3'6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
m~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
.
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d.; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ħ
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
0/ All Stores
*»ADE MAH* 4 *
and Chemists,
Wholesale Agrents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SALISBURY, Melbourne.
Vi.
HARLENE HAIR TEST
free
COUPON
To Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE CO ,
95*96, High Holborn, London, England.
Sirs,—Having carried out the inter*
estiug Hair Test described in your
article, I wish to apply for one of the
Free Outfits for seven days’ “Havleue
Hair Drill,” to which this coupon en-
titles me. <
I enclose 3d. postage, and shall be glad
If you will send me the outfit to the
fallowing address:
Name £
.Address
106
TRY THIS HAIR HEALTH TEST.
It will tell you the state of your Scalp or Hair.
A WEEK S TRIAI OUTFIT FREE.
Try this Test to-day.
It will tell you at once the 6tate of
health of your Scalp and Hair.
Take your stand before a looking-glass
and give your hair a thorough brushing,
afterwards passing your comb through it
three or four times.
Now look at your brush and comb.
Entangled in the teeth of the comb, or
among the bristles of the brush, you will
perhaps find two or three hairs, long
or short, dry or greasy, discoloured or
the reverse, possibly accompanied by a
certain amount of dandruff or scurf-dust.
If so, this is proof that your hair re-
quires immediate and careful attention.
These few hairs upon your brush and
comb are a certain and unfailing indica-
tion that you are threatened with Hair
Trouble of some sort or other.
But, fortunately, there is time yet to
assist your hair to irecover its strength
and luxuriance and beauty, to eliminate
every weakuess or disorder that may
attack it now or in the future.
Make the test described above, and if
it result in your finding any fallen hairs
or scurf-dust in your brush and comb,
then fill up the coupon with this
article and forward it, together with 3d.
in stamps for postage, to the premises of
Mr. Edwards, the world-famous Royal
and Court Hair Specialist, and discoverer
of the well-known “ Harlene-for-the-
Hair,” and “Hair-Drill,” and you will at
once be sent, or presented with, a free
Outfit for a Whole Week’s “ Harlem
HairrDrill,” containing everything you
require (including full instructions and a
seven days’supply of Harleue) to elimi-
nate the hidden weakness that is under-mining your Hair, to stop
your Hair falling out or losing its colour, and to renew its strength,
vigour, and luxuriance. If at the end of the week you desire to con-
tinue the treatment (as you are pretty sure to do), you can obtain
further supplies of “Harlene” for “Hair-Drill” at any leading
chemists’ or stores, or direct from the Edwards’ Harleno Co., 95 to
96, High Hoi born, London. W.C., in Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d. bottles.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold orLeasehol
City or Suburban Properties, o
3 Q.
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any tne
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTtnto
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying:
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- anv year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirrctors— The Hon. A. YV. Meeks. M.L.C.. Chairman': Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. YVinchcombe, ,
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. Geperal Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F. 0.0.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. YV. APPERLY, Secretary.
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious?
h
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
STEVENS FIREARMS
THE WORLD’S STANDARD.
m
Oar
POPULAR PRICED RIFLES
are notable for their ACCU-
RACY, RELIABILITY and
LASTING QUALITIES.
STEVENS FIGHTING LINE.
Our Demi-Bloc and Repeating Shotguns are "Superb for Trap and Field/'
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Insist on our make.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [7
MR. <J. H. IRWIN, J.P.
Where Doctors
are few, keep this Nerve-Strengthening,
Life-Lengthening Medicine,
Clements Tonic
y It has special claim to public use because
thousands bless its great health-creating
powers all over Australia, and praise it in
the Commonwealth press. This fact can be
proved by reading the Clements Tonic advts.
published weekly in this well-known paper.
i Joeve is a letter from Mr. J, H. Irwin, J. P., Mayor of Roma, Q., on two
occasions, and Magistrate of the Queensland Bench for years. His letter
is worth reading by all those seeking health :
‘ CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ Clements Tonic is the standard out west.
I spent 27 years in the backblocks, chiefly in Roma, Q.,
where 1 was Mayor on two occasions. Doctors were few
in the bush, and Clements Tonic was a reliable remedy.
For Indigestion, Liver or Kidney trouble, or weakness of
body or nerves, it has a great reputation among bushmen.
Often when a drover starts on a long trip, his last order is
for a bottle of Clements Tonic. He can’t take a doctor, so
he takes Clements Tonic as the next best thing. 1 have
known Clements Tonic to perform cures astounding to
anyone unacquainted with its wonderful powers.
(Signed) “ JOHN H. IRWIN, J.P.”
This medicine is without doubt without equal for the rapid relief of Insomnia or Broken
Rest, Sick Headache, Neuralgia, Indigestion, Weak Nerves and Nervous Breakdown, Low-
ness of Spirits, Hysteria, Heart Weakness or Palpitation, Biliousness and Constipation.
Keep it in the house if ill, and get well. All chemists and stores sell it.


“For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
4).
Vk
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
Mger’s
'Chemi 9eetoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
ĥ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
iB allowed on every cycle bough' of us. Your
money in fuh refunded with ut question
if not perfectly eatisfactor,. Higher grade
Coventry Cycles?
■warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon upprovai
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3aW to £9
Coaster Hnbs, best mokes of Tyres. Crobbc
Inverted Lever Kim brakes, variable gears
and all lates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. \Ve guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district
Large profits easily mnde
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our medal ojfcr on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE GO*, Dept. 280 Liverpool -
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Af>'e**t,
157 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
■-»-•'
>-
<<<£<
kmm 1
«V. «Sj
w
W C M
* '
1H ; |
S*
>i
Four I ELEY*
Favourites!
Tbeworld-wtdeand regularly in-
creasing sales of ELEY' Cartridges
among the most exacting sportsmen
afford ample evidence of their relia-
bility and general excellence
Above Ulus!' at ions show 12 buv< sviokelefs
Eley ‘Vulcan’— a ligbdy loaded smokeless
cartridge,
Eley’Universal’— a black powder cartridge,
witli an enormous bale
‘Eley Smokeless’— a popular smokeless car-
tridge , millions are sold annually-
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Illustration shows the
Eley 44
‘WINCHESTER’
Central Fire
Cartridge
Obtainable
through all
Gunmuktrs
and Dealers
Eley Bros. Ltd
London
;• '
WIN
ħ
H. Hillier,
< *
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer, Importer.
Sporting Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Phaetons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness,
j £5 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
h
BE SURE YOU GET
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bonnington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try it the next time you have a cold, and you will be satisfied. [1
healthful.
ECONOMICAL,
CONVENIENT
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
OXJR. JACK’* Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
WO CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A, M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
FOR
At
break-
fa s t
time or\
supper time \
H oi'lick’sX.
Malted Milk is\
a delicious substitute \
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlic k’s
Malted Milkisan
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
sick-
ness
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: ,82“, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’a Malted Milk Co. Slough. Eng.
Let
Us
Cure
You
VARICOSE
VEINS
IF you have learned to look upon your
Varicose Vein affliction as incurable,,
you will have to alter your point of
view. A few years ago, but temporary
relief, and then only by recourse to the
surgeon’s knife, was all a sufferer from this
complaint could expect. Now the knife
is obsolete.
The Vecsey Method of Treat-
ment offers not only permanent relief,
but an absolute cure, even in the very
worst cases. You need not lay up.
FREE BOOK.
Send a 2d. stamp for
our Free Book, which
gives full particulars. Write or call.
The Vccsey Varix=ari«m,
104 Linden Court, Sydney.
fiOl
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
ste 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Tull Part'culars Polled Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
the “TYPHOID FLY”
DANGEROUS DOMESTIC PEST.
This is our well-known domestic pest—the
common house fly. In addition to being a typhoid
carrier, the fly may carry nearly all the intestinal;
diseases and is the prime agent in the spread ofi
summer dysentery, being in this way unquestion-j
ably responsible for the death of many childrenj
in summer. The fly also possesses importance as
a disseminator of the bacilli of tuberculosis, thei
danger of human infection from tubercular flvi
specks being by the ingestion of the specks
on food.
It is a startling thought that a person who
drinks a cup of tea or a glass of milk into which a|
fly has fallen may take into his system 1,250,000
bacilli of typhoid, dysentery or tuberculosis. i
Summing up the position, the typhoid or house;
fly is a general or common carrier of pathogenic 1
bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic;
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus and other
intestinal diseases. It may carry the bacilli
of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases. It
is everywhere present, and it is disposed
of with comparative ease by the use of
INSECTIBANE.
INSECTIBANE is sold everywhere, but it
is necessary to be careful to' observe the spelling
of the name, as no other insect powder possesses
the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Sole Proprietors :
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped; —
«Jji
@@@6ll®
fEPI
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEENS
in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
to
Please write for
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
King’s, Queen’s, Piddle,
Rat-Tail, Old English, Albany,
Gadroonand Fancy Patterns.
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
4s. per dozen.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase cheaper
and better than you are now doing. Write lor our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6.000 Illustrations Post Free to any part ot the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
Xohe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEH sd.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Victim.
A home vignette, as glows the fire—
A wearied man made well by dinner,
A deep arm-chair, his heart’s desire,
And softly in there creeps a sinner !
A soft gown round her warm limbs falling,
A milky throat, by firelight pink,
Two haunting eyes for love are calling 1
A red mouth where a man might drink !
She steals to him—’tis time for coaxing ;
A dress is due, perhaps a bonnet.
Her sweetest smile (the one for hoaxing)
Her face doth wear with blushes on it !
Around his neck a white arm’s creeping,
Upon his knee a thief has perched ;
Two dancing eyes in his are peeping
(You’d ne’er find sweeter if you searched).
He does not move (his glance is fleeting),
He is quite stern (he knows her caper);
You’d never guess his heart is beating ;
He just sits tight and—reads the paper !
n.s.w.
HELEN JEROME.
A Lyric.
As some doubt seems to exist in Australasia as to tlie
precise qualities of a lyric, how is this for “ feeling ex-
pressed through temperament?”
Wondermath deep as night
Shot with long wisps of light,
Moontrails of fishy white
Caught in the gleam,
Blistered and blinded star,
Thrice wrapped in things that are
Swung from the nebulous car
Of Cynthia’s dream !
Not as the wise suppose,
Tilting a whiff tious nose,
Grasping the horny rose —
Inwrought decay—
But, as becomes the great,
Hoisting a lambent crate
Where the dumb millions wait,
Bending to pray.
Then, with a lofty hand
Scourging the milky sand,
Truer to Hate’s command
Than to the gall,
Something for each to bring,
Few, few are left to sing
Where the swart starbeams wring
Nothing at all.
Death and the doom are dumb,
Dark from the Drask they come,
Cleft with the voiceless hum
Of stark despair ;
Culled from Cheropian wells,
Gathered in heavens and hells,
Bound as with vapturous kells,
Wafts of her hair.
So shall Penlinden light.
Deep o’er the haft of night,
Trembling from height to height,
Shimmer to death,
Scattering her silver train,
Soul-stung with withering pain,
Fall in a dying rain,
Scant of lorn breath.
Ah, me ! The rose is dead !
Ah, me ! The prayer is said !
Death with her stars is red
Never again ;
Not for a viverous rag,.
Not for a doubting hag, •
Smite we the nether jag,
All, all in vain !
MAO. .J,AND.
D. M. W.
My Income.
My income is a little less
Than is enough, to meet my dues.
And always has been, though I’ve had
A wide diversity of screws.
Yet I am prudent, and I search
My ends in manner most discreet
To make the two ends meet—or try :
But there are other things than meat.
And, mindful of an ancient saw,
My way, per boot, to town I’ll wend
To save a copper, and by chance
Will spend a shilling with a friend.
I am not quite prepared to state
Just what it is, or where my pelf
Comes —when it does come—from, because
I really do not know myself;
But when my luck was poor and lean
I’ve borrowed half a sov. from Brown,
A trinket pawned for fifteen bob,
And sold the ticket for a crown.
And this, with something borrowed back
From what I lent to Smith, and then
Some sundries added on have made
My income for the week two-ten.
I do not know if I should count
Quite all the things I mentioh with
My income ; 'p’r’aps I should exclude
The sum I borrowed back from Smith.
But what’s the odds ! Ido not care ;
But one thing causes me the blues :
My income is a little less
Than is enough to meet my Jews.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
.■* "* t * ' « » ' \ 4 .*• iV* 1
V V 'T V. -4 /> *
j •*. V a. A-A v »
MMkm
as
>\vV»
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 45.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marv ellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTGN.
BLMJI
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
h
UNDER VICE-REGAL
ĥ
PATRONAGE.
For tjie Latest Style of Head-Dress, Puffs and Swathlngs,
Very Light and Easily Adjusted. Obtainable only at
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINC STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth
Telephone 2138 Central.
& Castlereaph Streets.
COMBINGS MADE UP.
• ,/ff^
r
Complete Electric Plants —the best plant
for country homes, shearing sheds, etc.
There is
no light
like
Welsbach
Light
We have an electric plant, consisting of self-contained Petrol or paraffine engine and dynamo of small dimensions,
splendidly suited for country house-lighting, and working sewing machines, shearing machines, pumps, fans, etc.
These Electric Sets can be supplied in any strength, and their initial cost is small, considering the splendid results.
They are very easy to start, very little trouble to keep going, and simple to work. Another advantage of these
Welsbach Plants is that they can be used at the same time for lighting as well as driving purposes.
Any number of lamps can be used, and the best lamp is the Welsbach Metallic Filament Lamp, because of its
superior strength, greater brilliancy and consuming the minimum current. The Lamp illustrated can be
supplied in 25 to 600 candle-power. Will you write for fuller particulars ?
&*•- So/e Agents— Electric Light Department—
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Pitt Street, Sydney; Lonsdale Street, Melbourne; Victoria Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
The Public Supplied Direct from the Manufacturers.
Being the largest manufacturers, importers and Cash Buyers of High-Class Jewellery, Watches, Clocks, Solid Silver and Silverplated Goods in the Commonwealth, we are in a better
position to supply the public and give better value than any other store in our line of business. We are determined to give our customers the benefit of our Cash System and Dealing
Direct with the Manufacturers, which means a saving of fully 10 to 20 per cent. We do not deal in sham goods. Even our lowest-priced articles are of sound and genuine quality-
just w at t ey are represented to be in material, make and finish. Write to-day for our new Art Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully illustrated, in fine art cover. We post it free.
No. H92s9—Pearl, Garnet, ana Tourmaline
set 9et. Gold Brooch, £l/12/6.
No. Dl424—Fine Tourmaline and locfc.
Gold Brooch, £l/17/6.
Nio. J74B—Fine Pearl and Amethyst
set 9ct. Gold Brooch, £l/10/-
No. D47l9—Fine Pink or Blue Tour-
maline set 15ct. Gold Broocli,
£2/5/-
No. J 2910 —9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Green Peridot, 21/-
No. Jl9lB—Fine Pearl and
Turquoise set 9ct. Gojd
Pendant, 32/6.
No. J2636—Fine Pearl and
Peridot set Gold Brooch,
£2/17/6.
No. P7766—Fine Pearl set
15et. Gold' Pendant Brooch,
with Diamond Centre, £l5
No. 04574—15 ct. Onlrl Necklet, set, with Fine White Pearls
Pink Tourmalines and Aquamarine, £lO.
Fine Diamond, Ruby and Sapphire “ Dragon
Fly ” Brooch, £lO/10/=
No. J 2909 9et. Gold
Pendant, set Pearl, Pink
and Green Tourmalines,
21/-
No. C442B—Fine Amethyst and
Pearl-set isct. Gold Broosh.
£5/10/=
No, C4B4o—Fine Pearl and
Amethyst-set 9ct. Gold
Pendant, £l/17/6.
No. J2s37—Finest quality Aquamarine and
Pearl set loot. Gold Brooch, £3/5/-
No. J749—Fine Pearl and Amethyst set
9ct. Gold Brooch, £l/15/-
No. J73o—Fine Pearl and Peridot set
9ct. Gold Brooch, 18/6.
No. FB2Bo—loot. Gold Brooch, set with line
White Pearls, £3/15/-
No. J492—lsct. Gold Brooch, Daisy and
Orescent Design, set with Ruby
Centre, £l/5/-
STEWART DAWSON ®. CO. (Australia, Ltd.),
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1598.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1910.
PiUOK OLI.
A PROBLEM IN CLOTHES.
The Minister for Customs has been endeavoring to arrive at a conclusion as to what is a “dressed” and what an “undressed” doll. Mr. Tudor
confessed yesterday that the problem had beaten him.— Daily Paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published bv William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman. for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Ailvnnce, Only)
Rev Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Hal (-yearly ~. ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Ry sending direct to Thk Bullktin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thk Bullktin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Rusiness Communications
tube addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bullktin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Rusiness letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no ease be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojiicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 9000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Thk Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktin is forwarded, direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and lhgby, Ltd., Adelaide—at A/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tins Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
notch, Lndgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office,’lls High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, R.C.;
Irvine, and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co. , Stationers.
Vl.S.A.—lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency,‘Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Rook and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tub Bulletin metal aldvertiffing plates, size -6 fin. x lhin.,
will be. forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1910.
THE FALSE PROPHETS.
Some ten years ago the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia started its career amid prognostications of
woe from many quarters. The howl of the False
Prophets was in the public ear, and the half-mast
flag of the False Prophets flew before the public
eye, arid the hired raven of the False Prophets
sat on a blighted tree and said—for the animal
had a cold —“ Deverbore ! ” It was alleged, in
many wild and hairy quarters, that the year 1901
was the end of things. Freetrade—the Freetrade
that New jSouth Wales never really possessed
and wouldn’t have had at a gift—was going
to be lost. Human freedom was going to
be lost. The right of the States to work
out their own destiny was going to be lost.
Everything was about to be lost except grass;
that substance was to be found—growing abun-
dantly in the city streets. It is interesting to
look back on those drear prognostications and
consider how things have really panned out.
And then it is interesting to consider the False
Prophets —those who hired the catarrhal raven
which said “ Deverbore” —for they are prophesy-
ing to-day as confidently and bumptiously as ever,
and wear the same old infallible expression in the
left eye. State Premier Wade, of N.S.W.,
and his political push —also the Sydney
Telegraph and Evening News, and the
Upper House variety of Tory, and the Yass-
berra Federal capital site gang—are just as
full of knowledge about how to save the country
as if the logic of events hadn’t long since revealed
them as the greatest aggregate ass that ever
climbed it tree to escape from the Deluge, and
• built a mare’s nest amid the higher branches. And
they are just as sorry to-day for the ignorance of
everybody else as they were before their pro-
phecies burst some years ago.
New South Wales was the home of the False
Prophets of the anti-Federal days, and it was in
the streets of its capital that the cow-feed was to be
richest when the grass of desolation had time to
grow ; therefore a special and melancholy interest
attaches to the story of its subsequent progress.
The State was 113 years old when Federation be-
gan, and it, is now aged nearly 123 years. In 1901 it
had 1,379,527 people, so in the days of separatism
and low tariffs it acquired population at an average
rate of 12,209 per annum. Nine years later the
population was estimated at 1,655,330, an increase
of 2/5,803; so the growth in the Federal and Pro-
tectionist period averaged well over 30,000 per
annum. Yet the first period covered the time of
the gold boom, the silver and coal finds, the cheap
and easy land grants, and the introduction of
150,000 assisted immigrants; while the second
period was merely one of a fairly decent tariff
and hard work. The increase last year
(40,435) was more than double the figure (14,937)
during the last year (1901) of the old system and
the old tariff, for it wasn’t till the very end of
1901 that the new tariff came into force. The in-
crease by excess of births over deaths, which was
1626 per 100,000 people in 1900 and 1598 in 1901,
was 1719 last year. The State lost 1518 people by
excess of departures over arrivals in 1900, and
6917 in 1901. In 1908 it gained 5350, and in 1909,
12,506 by excess of arrivals over departures.
* * * *
The False Prophets always arise in disorder
about this stage of the argument, and say
that the vast improvement in the aspect of affairs
is solely owing to the transcendent genius of
Mr. Gregory Wade, who is now clamoring at
the top of his voice for a renewal of his job as
State Premier. But three things which Gregory
Wade can’t control are manufactures, com-
merce and shipping. They depend mostly on the
tariff, and the Australian Parliament makes the
tariff; also, it invariably makes the sort of tariff
that Wade disapproves of. The first 113 years—
the 113 un-Federal years—of N.S.W. history saw
60,779 people employed in N.S.W. factories ; the
next nine years raised the figure to 92,181. The
wages paid to factory operatives were £4,974,216
in 1900, and £7,674,664 in 1909. The value of
goods produced in 1900 was under £24,000,000;
in 1909 it was over £40,000,000. In the matter of
employment, one year of the new order of things
was equal, in the matter of progress, to more than
seven of the old ; and in the matter of output, one
year under Federation and Protection was worth
nearly as much as eight of the ancient system
which the Sydney Telegraph and most of the
Wade following declared to bo the whole gar-
ment of political righteousness, the one sure road
to Paradise, and likewise the only pebble on the
beach. And in the same nine years of Federation
N.S.W. commerce increased from £55,725,587 per
annum—the figure it had attained after 113
years of the ancient busted superstitions— to
£79,495,861 ; and shipping (entered and cleared)
from 7,870,503 tons to 11,559,460 tons. Taking
one consideration with another, the growth in the
nine years of the new era compares amazingly
well with the snail-like progress of the 113 years
that went before.
* * # *
When the evidences of general prosperity
become too strong toberefuted.it is the custom
of the False Prophets of Foreign-trade to fall
back in good order upon the alleged Increased
Cost of Living. Owing to the more or less
apocryphal upheaval in the cost of living, .and
the sky-scraping price of food, the workman’s
sovereign is variously stated to be now worth
only 15s. 6d. or 17s. 7|d., or 19s. Id., or any old
sum down to 13s. 3d. which strikes the fertile
imagination of the writer. But the workman
doesn’t seem to have the least idea that
anything terrible has happened to him, He
pays his way as of old, and puts the surplus
in the savings bank just as he used to do, and
every year the surplus grows bigger. In 1900 these
banks of the working classes had 282,643 depositors,
and the said depositors had £10,901,382 of deposits,
or £3B 11s. sd. each. In 1909 there were 460,251
depositors, with £20,150,574 of deposits, or
£43 15s. 7d. each. And, during the same period,
the deposits in the N.S.W. banks of issue rushed
up from £32,233,591 to £46,124,997, and the cash
held in the banks of issue from £5,933,076 to
£10,521,262 (three months later, by March
31, 1910, the figure was £11,919,838). The
net earnings of the State’s railways and
tramways rose from £1,394,052 in 1900 to
£2,075,626 . in 1909. The people, despite the
frantic borrowings of the Wade Government, are
so far shaking themselves clear of their depend-
ence on Bull-Cohen, the money-lender, that the
amount of the State debt which is locally owned
has risen in nine years from £13,000,000 to
£23,000,000. The State revenue has climbed up
from under £10,000,000 to close upon £14,000,000.
Even the agricultural industry is moving, but it
is less dependent on the Commonwealth and more
on the State Government than are manufactures
and commerce; so, as might be expected, it
struggles along much more slowly. The area
under crop in 1900 was 2,439,639 acres. By
1909 it had crawled along to 2,713,971 acres. By
March, 1910, it was estimated that it had made a
plunge and got up to 3,174,690 acres. The
total expansion of less than 700,000 acres is fairly
good ; but, compared with the great uprising of
manufactures, commerce and banking—the mat-
ters more directly under Federal influence—it is
mean and almost contemptible.
4r * * *
There are many other instances which might be
cited, but the list tends to grow too long. The
moral of it all is that N.S.W. has boomed under
Federation as it never boomed before. It has
made such progress that one year of the new
order of things has been worth anything from two
to a dozen of the old. It has gained more by the
union of Australia than any other three States
put together. The beneficent tariff, which its
own wooden-headed legislators and unspeakably
ignorant metropolitan daily press refused to
supply, was conferred on it by the votes of
Victorian, South Australian and Queensland
politicians, and since then it has never
looked back. - The debt which it owes to
these States for dragging it out of the old bog and
mudhole of revenue-tariffism and semi- Freetrade,
and making it the great affluent community it is,
can hardly be estimated. It might be a vastly
more affluent community but for the insane con-
gestion policy, which keeps three-fourths of its
good ports closed against commerce, and makes
them mere bad debts and haunts of casual fisher-
men ; but that is a matter for which the Common-
. wealth isn’t responsible. Meanwhile, the States
which supplied N.S.W with the blessing of its
new tariff have their reward in the bumptious
and arrogant patronage of the False Prophets-,
who are still going strong. The old importing
press of Sydney still saves its face by preaching
Freetrade and denouncing Protection, being
assured that there is no longer any fear of losing
the thing it denounces or getting the horrible
alleged blessing which it says it is craving for.
And the old parochial frauds who prophesied,
nine years ago, that, because of Federation, there
would presently be excellent pasture in George-
street, Sydney, smite their chests with the
hollow sound that the gorilla makes in the
African forest, and profess that the prosperity is
all their work, and want to be re-elected by large
majorities on the strength of it.
* * *
The party which is now demanding that it
should be again entrusted with the management
of the Cornstalk State is essentially the party of
the old False Prophets. It is the crowd which
couldn’t see far enough ahead to realise that all
this prosperity was coming. It is the multi-
tude with one blind eye and one glass
ditto. By doing everything that this gang
declared to be absurd and ruinous, the
Australian Parliament has filled N.S.W.
with such affluence as it had never before
experienced. But their utter failure has in
no way dispirited the Bogus Prophets. They
still pose as the men who know every-
thing and the only men who know any-
thing. They understand exactly the evil
consequences of a progressive land-tax, a
Federal note issue, a national bank, a unifi-
cation and reconstruction policy, a Federal capi-
tal anywhere save at Yassberra, Labor domination
in general, and Government by anybody save
themselves. They see these evils ahead with the
same prescient eye which, ten years ago, looked
into the dim future and saw grass in the streets.
Next month they will appeal to the community
with all their old confidence to re-elect them for
the salvation of the State. And it is quite pos-
sible that the community will re-elect them.
Nothing is more unreliable than a community.
A FINANCIAL CUL-DE-SAC.
The Federal Treasurer has to crawl through a
tight place during this second half of 1910, and
some anxiety is felt as to the probable graceful-
ness of his crawl. From the beginning of last
July, and for 10 years thereafter, the Common-
wealth is to pay to the State Treasurers 255. per
inhabitant, or estimated inhabitant, per annum.
At the same time, it is pledged by the Braddon
clause, which doesn’t expire until the end of the
year, to pay over until December 31 three-fourths
of the tariff revenue, and that is a vast amount
more than 255. per head. Therefore, to make
an average of 255. for the current finan-
cial, year, it will probably have to pay
about 20s. or 225. Gd. per head during
the first six months, and ss. or 2s. Gd. during the
remainder of the year. In other words, the affair
is lopsided, and the head of the liability is wholly
disproportionate to its tail. There is a necessity
to raise a lot of immediate money ; in other words,
there is urgent need for six months’ accommoda-
tion from Uncle or from somebody. One way out
of the difficulty would be to offer the State
Treasurers the Federal lOU with interest, and
redeem it about next March. This idea ought to
please the State Treasurers ; they are so used to
paying interest, and so unaccustomed to receiving
it, that the novelty of the proceeding should be to
them as a white elephant, or a new spring bonnet,
or the recovery of the Lost Drink, or anything
else that is flabbergasting and unlooked for.
Another expedient would be to borrow temporarily
from the banks or the trust funds. Prime Minister
Fisher’s unfortunate inspiration is to take the
money—estimated at £1,500,000 —out of the
Federal paper money fund, and pay no interest
on it. So many unlucky things have happened of
late to the Federal paper money:scheme, and it
has been so mangled and altered and turned
inside out and upside down, that it may be held
that one more episode doesn’t matter. Yet this
episode seems to matter a good deal.
* » * *
As the Government scheme stands to-day, the
proposed Australian notes have no definite basis
whatsoever. There is no Bank of the Nation to
put them in circulation. There is no obligation
laid on the private banks, as in Canada, to hold
40 per cent, of their cash reserves in Federal notes,
and thus provide a permanent and reliable market
for the Federal paper. There is also no obligation
laid on the private banks, as in Canada, to pay
cheques up to £2O in small Government notes if de-
manded. The original propositoni was that the Aus-
tralian private banks should be required, if called
upon, to pay up to £25 in Federal notes of 10s.,
£l, £5, £lO or £2O. It was pointed out, however,
that this would necessitate the holding of £ll5
in notes against a possible £25 liability, in
order. to comply with the law, and that
the position was next to impossible; whereupon
Prime Minister Fisher, instead of making pay-
ment compulsory in 10s. and £1 notes only, aban-
doned the whole. clause, and closed up the
one remaining reliable market for the pro-
posed paper issue. This left the Federal
note a mere homeless or outcast piece of
paper. It will be legal tender if anybody offers
it, but no one is bound to offer it or have it to offer.
Anybody may demand it in payment of a lawful
debt, but the person from whom it is demanded
may simply say that he hasn’t got it, never had it,
would hate to be seen dead with it, and wouldn’t
touch it with a long pole. The banks may take
£500,000 worth or £10,000,000 worth of it, just
as they feel inclined. Having got the amount,
whatever it may be, they may put the Federal
paper into circulation, or they may keep it on
hand, or they may suddenly, and just at the most
awkward moment for the Government, return the
whole lot and demand back the gold they paid
for it. The idea of a Federal note issue was a
splendid one, but there is no idea so splendid that
it can’t be muddled into misery and general
decay if the wrong man gets hold of it.
* * * *
It is difficult to see that anything of great
importance can safely be done with the
money received in exchange for arr issue
of paper money which stands on so pre-
carious a footing. If any of the ordinary
precautions for keeping paper in circulation were
adopted, a gold reserve of 25 .per cent, would be
more than ample. With no precautions whatso-
ever, it is hard to say what figure might or might
not be sufficient. The best course would certainly
be to hold a fairly large gold reserve ; to invest
the balance, whatever it might be, in saleable
State securities, which could be realised or pawned
in case of a sudden emergency ; and to similarly
invest the interest derived from these securities,
so that the fund would be always growing
stronger and more impervious. And about the
worst possible course is the one proposed.
According to this method, it seems that a large
proportion of the money received in exchange
for notes—if there is any money, or any
appreciable amount of money, so received
is to be temporarily borrowed by the Govern-
ment. No interest is to be paid upon the loan, so
the transaction won’t strengthen the reserve.
The Treasurer will begin, at a very early date, to
acquire the habit of regarding the notes reserve as
a,handy fund to draw upon gratis when there is a
temporary famine in the cash-box, and no one
knows where that habit will lead to. Apparently
Parliament will shut up at the usual date, leaving
no saleable securities to even nominally fill the
void created by the withdrawal of £1,500,000, and
leaving nobody with any special authority to
meet an emergency, should such a thing arise.
And if the banks should suddenly grow dead tired
of the Federal notes early in the recess, and demand
their gold back just at the worst possible time, the
results will apparently be gri«at astonishment
and chaos.
It appears to have been the misfortune of Prime
Minister Fisher to take the advice of all his most
virulent opponents in this matter. The assump-
tion is that they called upon him, and spoke
kindly and even respectfully to him, and put
their refulgent plug-hats in a row on his office
table, and showed him figures and calculations,
and thus gently elbowed him along the road they
wanted him to take. And he took that road
surely enough. A Government note issue which
depends for its very existence on the goodwill and
forbearance of the private banks ought to be satis-
factory to all the affable and plug-hatted sup-
porters of Private Enterprise who could possibly
call on any Prime Minister.
THE PROFOUND ADMIRATION OF
JOSEPH COOK.
They had just managed to land Yass-Canberra safely
on the right side. . . . But he advised his listeners,
whenever they heard a man mouthing about “high
national grounds,” to look closely into what he was
doing, and they would find that the high national view
was from his own particular back .yard. —Joseph Cook
(Sydney Telegraph, 20/9 /’ 10).
One of the things I admire about the Wade. Govern-
ment is its striking a blow at centralisation. We ought
to have in New South Wales three or four seaports and
hig inland cities. A system of decentralisation, now for
the first time being taken up in this State, will further
add to the prosperity of the country. —Joseph Cook
(Sydney Telegraph, 21/9I'10).
Having received in the above-mentioned flow
of language the indirect but very clear assur-
ance of Joseph Cook, M.H.R., who ought to have
some acquaintance with the subject, that his old
friend, Premier Wade, of N.S.W., is a poli-
tical fraud and confidence man as regards his
professed decentralisation policy, it is time for
the Cornstalk people to consider what they will
do about the matter on the fast-approaching elec
tion day. Premier Wade professes to aim at rt
versing the narrow, paltry, ill-judged congestion
and concentration policy of his predecessors. On
high national grounds he talks about a desire to
open the Closed Ports of the State, and to rescue
the rich northern and southern coastal districts
from their long-continued desolation. And Cook,
who knows Wade, and who also, presumably,
knows himself, declares that people who propose
to do things on high national grounds are frauds,
hypocrites and delusions. Thereby he professes
to knock the prop of reliability from underneath
the one big idea of which Wade was even dimly
suspected, and unless Wade abjures Cook as a
man of mean ideals with whom no high-minded
politician can associate, the situation is made clear
to the electors and all doubt is removed.
# * # *
And if Cook’s warning, that Wade’s suddenly
acquired national ideals are not to be trusted, is
insufficient in itself, there are other warnings.
Here, for instance, is an extract from a recent
leading article in the Sydney Telegraph— an ex-
tract which can’t be put before the public too often,
printed in a paper which is Wade’s earnest sup-
porter and admirer and practically his press organ
and official mouthpiece:—
To say that our railway system has been deliberately
planned in the interests of Sydney, and that the interior
has been persistently sacrificed, is to quite ignore the
restraints of accuracy. . . . No doubt the policy of open-
ing up new seaports adopted by the Wade Government
is a sound one, and we hope to see COCKSPUR lines
running into the hinterland of all our harbors in due
time. But even then tret will mostly be employed
BRINGING PRODUCE FOR SHIPMENT BY COASTAL STEAMER TO
Sydney, where it will be either consumed or sent over-
sea in the big ocean liners. . . . This talk about “delibe-
rately inflating Sydney ” at the expense of the country is
crude nonsense.
That is a very clear declaration of the fraudulent
and bogus character of the boasted Wade de-
centralisation policy, and Wade has not thought
it worth while to repudiate it. And, in addition,
here is Wade on his own alleged decentralisation
policy—not Wade talking to a country audience,
and fooling it with misty platitudes about possible
good times ahead, but Wade discoursing to the
people of a rich Sydney suburb, where the local
mercantile class has its habitation, and assuring
them that the old congestion policy is to stand,
and is, if possible, to be made more congested
than it was before :
At no distant date the whole of the wharfage accom-
modation on the southern side of the harbor will be re-
quired for the export of the produce of the southern por-
tion of this State, which must come to Sydney, our one
deep sea port. It will therefore be necessary to make
similar provision on the north side of the harbor at
Ball’s Head for the rapidly-increasing produce from the
northern part of the State.
* * * *
So the situation is something like this: (1)
Joseph Cook greatly admires the lofty patriotism
of his friend Wade, who has developed a yearning
to “strike a blow at centralisation ” and to supply
N.S.W. with three or four real seaports, and
to create big inland cities. (2) The same
Cook says that people who profess to
have great national aspirations (like Wade’s)
are quite unreliable, and no value should be
attached to their protestations. (3) The Tele-
graph, which ought to know, declares that there
are to be no large, new seaports at all, and no
new coastal cities, and no big railway connections
with the neglected deep-water harbors —only some
possible little cockspur lines and a pottering
transhipment trade with. Sydney by coastal
steamer, just the same, apparently, as the trade
which already potters at Ulladulla and Merim-
bula and Bellinger and such-like places. (4) Wade
himself, after discoursing many platitudes about
opening up the closed deep-water harbors, declares
that there are really no such places to open.
Thus the only person who gives any definite pro-
mise of better things is Cook, who is lost in pro-
found reverence for his friend Wade. And what
standing Cook has in the matter doesn’t appear.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Passing of Tait.
Thomas Tait has handed in his resignation as
chief of the Victorian Railways, and it is under-
stood that a locally-trained man will get his billet.
He will certainly do so unless the Murray Govern-
ment is quite incapable of profiting by experience.
Australia has imported a number of railway
managers at different times, and, with one excep-
tion, they have ranged from very ordinary men to
dismal failures. Even Eddy, the solitary shining
light of the crowd, wasn’t by any means the
phenomenal light that is commonly supposed. He
did better than Goodchap, his predecessor; but,


then, he was given powers and opportunities whic
GoODCHAP never possessed. He made great mi
provements ; but he was given a million pounds o
loan money with which to do mere current repairs
of a kind which Goodchap before him and Oliver
after him were expected to effect out of revenue.
There has always been a tendency to give the
freshly-imported Railway Commissioner oppor-
tunities which were denied to the locally-traine
man. Thus, because Oliver couldn’t get on as a
mere nominal chief of the N.S.W. railways with
two snarling colleagues in equal authority, it vvas
decided to make the holder of his position an
autocrat; but instead of Oliver being allowed to
show what he could do under the improved cir-
cumstances, the place was given to Johnson— and
the less said about the glorious regime o. .John-
son the better. He and Tait and .Speight
are three men who will be long remem-
bered on the railroads of Australia; and
along with them will be remembered nn-
ported Judges like Bootuby, of S.A., and
Booth, of Westralia ; imported harbor experts
like Coode; imported military geniuses like
Hutton ; and all manner of other importations.
The resignation of Thomas Tait came at a time
when it had begun to be felt that an inquiry into
his management couldn’t be postponed any longer.
During his term of office the list of disasters on
the Victorian lines grew in such a fashion as to be
a public scandal and a public terror. The blame
was always laid on subordinate officers who
had “neglected the regulations,” but no matter
how eloquent the explanation about the careless-
ness of subordinates might be, the dead people
remained dead, and their surviving relatives
remained angry. At last, those people who hadn’t
yet been killed came to the conclusion that
there were only two possible explanations
to fit the case: Either (1) T ait’s system was very
bad, or (2) Tait’s luck in selecting incompetent
employees was something dreadful. They began
to remember, too, that Tait got his professional
training in a slap dash country which has the worst
record on earth for railway wreckage ; and that
didn’t increase their confidence to any notable
extent when the train lurched more than usual, or
the driver blew his whistle like the Devil and
crowded on the brakes. Probably Tait and
Johnson will be the last, or very nearly the last,
of the race of imported railway managers. No-
body in his senses would desire to keep the big
positions on the railways exclusively for Aus-
tralians by birth ; but there is going to be a
demand for men of Australian training—men of
whom something more is known than that
they have a quart of written testimonials and
a complete ignorance of local conditions. When
a G-overnment looks abroad for a perfect stranger
to fill an important post, it has to depend wholly
on his excellent testimonials. He may have got
them because lie deserved them. He may have
get them because his old employers wanted to
get rid of him without giving him the crude and
naked sack; and often tjie testimonial that is
given to the man one wants to get rid of is a lot
more brilliant than that given to the man one
would be very sorry to lose. He may have
acquired them by making himself a nuisance to
influential people ; or eminent fellow-churchmen
may have pulled strings on his behalf quite as
much out of regard for his piety as out of faith in
his professional ability. There are many possi-
bilities in the case. Australia has met a number
of these possibilities, and in most cases it hasn’t
liked them. Yet they were hard to get rid of.
A man already in the service can be made acting-
Commissioner for a spell, and sent back to his
old job if he fails; but the imported pig-in-a-
poke must have a long engagement signed before
he leaves his home in Smashville, U.S.A., or
•wherever it is, and starts on the first stage of his
journey Australia-wards.
; ; ~
A Tattered. Old Female.
Half its time the Tory press of N.S.W. can’t
quite recollect whether it represents a heavy
borrowing party or a strongly i conomical party;
and it fails to remember whether it wants to
curse the Labor people for helping Waddell and
O’Sullivan to borrow too much, or to denounce
them as a dangerous lot vvho, if they get into
power, won’t borrow nearly enough. The Telk-
gkaph was in the latter stage of its mental
trouble last Monday, and denounced Labor in
this fashion as an institution which, if it got into
power, would lag on the road to the pawnshop
and make insufficient speed unto Cohen : ■
At the end of June last there were 3643 miles of
Government railway open for trallio in New South Wales.
Of this, 1519 miles failed to pay interest and work) ngr ex-
penses, not to speak of the I per cent, for a sinking fund
required by the Labor Party’s platform. qSo far from that,
they entaiied the Department in an expense of £304,893
for the 12 months. Under the Labor Party’s plan not
oiie of those railways—and there; are ,27 of them —could
have been built. . . . Why, the whole State rail way system
does not pay 1 per cent, over and above working
expenses and the interest bill. On an average, the
railway loans cost about £3 12s. , 6d. per cent.
Last year the system earned £4 11s. 7d. per cent,
—or lid. per cent, less than the Labor party re-
quires new lines to earn before they will consent to
construct them. There had been railways in New South
Wales for 18 years before the earnings were sufficient to
pay interest at to-day’s loan rates. And it was not until
25 years had elapsed that the profits reached the 1 per
cent, sinking fund level. Under the Labor scheme, New
South Wales could never have had a railway at all.
And then one is tempted to look back into the
story of these old, disastrous days, when Toryism
was supreme in N.S.W. and the big loans and the
railways were just commencing. N.S.W. was a
wonderful place in the old days. The people
paid no : land-tax, income-tax or death
duties, hardly any stamp duties, no tobacco
duty,'no beer excise, hardly any local rates—in
fact, they regarded themselves as a special people
who couldn’t be expected • to hand , out taxes
-as other communities did. They lived on
Customs taxes (not heavy ones), on land sales, on
loans, on faith in Providence, and on a good deal
of rurn. Up to 1855 the money spent on railways
only amounted to £515,000; by 1860 it was
£1,422,000; by 1870, £5,566,000. All through
these early years the land revenue—the income or
GoD-given endowment which came to the country
without any taxation or any labor—would have
paid for all the railway building easily, if the
lazy old Tories of the back-block period
hadn't wanted the money to save them from
the necessity of paying taxes ; and by 1870
there would have also been £IOO,OOO a
year ■(the figure reached £300,000 a year by
1875) of revenue from the unencumbered lines
with which to build more railways. Every line
that N.S.W. now possesses could have been built
without borrowing a single penny, and yet the
taxes to-day might have been only half what they
are, and whoever says anything to the contrary
isra.liar. The trouble was that, instead of levying
a few. small imposts in 1855, in order to leave the
land revenue available for railway building, the
„ money was borrowed, then and the taxes were
levied afterwards to pay the interest bill, which
■ goeth on for ever. If a public work is built out of
revenue, the money has only to be paid once;
.whereas, if it is built, out of loans. tl)e interest
bill happens every year until the Day of Judg-
ment, and until the work has been paid for
100 times over —but, unfortunately, the silly
old pioneers couldn’t see it. The past can t
be undone, but the brightest feature in the Labor
nartv’s rather weak finance is that it threatens to
do a shade better in the future. It isn t possible
• to confine railway building to lines that will pay
full interest on the loan money and 1 per cent,
sinking' fund as well. But it is possible to charge
a portion of the cost of ill-paying lines to revenue
and nav iust so much out of loans that the line will
meet its interest bill and its 1 per cent, sinking
fund charge. Also, it is quite possible to pay 1 per
cent, sinking fund on the whole public debt out
of revenue. N.S.W. isn’t so dog-poor that it
is unable to build even a yard of line without
fleeing to the pawnbrokery for the money ;
thanks to fairly good management m Com-
monwealth affairs, even Wade hasn t contrived
to drag it down quite so low as that. Phe wors
and muddiest aspersion thrown at the marble
brow of the Ma State is this constant wail ot
aggregate Toryism, that she must cadge for a crust
in the gutters of Lombardy all her days because
she is a tattered old female, with no visible sup-
port of her own and no prospect of ever having any.
The Keward of Apostacy.
Now that the Yassberra party has to some ex-
tent got its second wind, and dragged its feet out
of the bog of astonishment in which it sank upon
hearing of its own success, it is wondering audibly
how the thing happened, and what the Fisher
Government meant by it. That Ministry cer-
tainly did things that were calculated to set the
angels wondering. A year or two ago the great
majority of its members were ardent supporters
of Dalgety as the best capital site in the running,
yet, in the end, it was their votes and their clam-
orous support which secured the selection of
Yassberra. By their own showing they re-
garded Dalgety as the best choice in the
interests of the country, and by their own
showing they ended by voting against what they
considered the interests of the country. And
they hadn’t even the mercenary excuse that then-
billets depended on their vote; they began by
weakly giving up their convictions in favor of
Dalgety to please a pro-Yassberra Parliament,
and they ended by shoving the site they didn’t
believe in down the throat of another Parliament
which, in the main, didn’t believe in it either.
In fact, it believed so little that all the influence
of the Fisher Government only managed to make
the Senate vote a tie or dead heat. Not one of
the converted or perverted M misters had the
courage to say that he Voti for Yassberra
because he recognised it as u.ie spot which
howled for recognition in the public in-
terest. ‘Prime-Minister Fisher said vaguely
that he regarded the capital site as only a
small matter, after all, which was something akin
to Henry IV. ’s famous remark about another
capital site, that 1 “it was worth a mass”; but
that only made his opponents the more flabber-
gasted, for the spectacle of a Labor Ministry
needlessly abandoning its obvious convictions and
trampling with all the derision of a Bruce Smith
on its own cherished referendum principle, all for
the sake of a very small matter and a thing that
really didn’t signify much, was quite beyond
theni. Now, having dug themselves ou,s of-the
pit of their own amazement,i the Yassberra-ites
have formulated the idea that the deed vvas done
as a rather clumsy bribe to the people of N.S.W.
to induce them to vote for the State Labor party
at next month’s election. As Sydney Telegraph
recently put it in a leading article headed, “ What
the Capital means to Labor ”
The State election is only three weeks off, and the
Federal Parliament will have to show unusual expedition
to get the Bill passed through both Houses in time for
the proclamation to be made before polling-day. And
unless that can be done, and the whole matter be as
“definitely settled” as Mr. Hughes now erroneously
declares it to be, Labor must expect the people of New
South Wales to regard its good faith as unproved. Sup-
pose, for instance, that the necessary steps for the final
acquisition of the capital territory have not been taken
by election day, what guarantee have we that they will
be taken at all'? The Federal Labor party is divided on
the question, and the majority of its members have only
voted for Yass-Canberra because the Government cracked
its whip as loudly as the Caucus would allow—a course
which was palpably advisable in view of the impending
elections in New South Wales and the hopelessness of a
“harmonious” Labor Government emerging therefrom
if Melbourne influence against justice being done was
yielded to. After the elections, however. Labor will
have slipped the leash of political necessity. If Mr.
McGowen obtains office, there will be no need to force
the capital question ; and if he is confirmed in the position
of leader of the Opposition, there will be the less inclina-
tion to do anything for a recalcitrant State which has
refused to put Labor in office. The subject will be wide
open again, and the chances of Labor’s recent endorse-
ment of Yass-Canberra repeating itself will be very poor.
... If the proclamation is not out before polling day, the
capital, instead of being settled, will really be an open
question. And if the Fisher Government does not attend
to that formality within the time, its Labor colleagues
in this State, etc., etc.
It is a muddy sort of a reward that the Fisher
Government gets —this assumption that it went
back on its convictions in order to help its friend
McGowen to a State billet; but any reward that
is likely to accrue in such a case is almost bound
to be muddy.
A Lost Opportunity.
The Mayor of Annandale erupted as follows at a
meeting addressed by C. G. Wade last week :
I came here to-night for two reasons. (Cheers.) One
was that I have never heard Mr. Wade speak before, like
many of you, perhaps—(applause)—and the other was to
hear him grapple with those vile lie3 —(frantic cheering)
—and the slanders that have been going about the
country for the last two or three months. (Cheers.) I
want to hear him throw them back at those who utter
them to choke them. (Applause.) He is quite able for
the lot of them. (Cheers.) I want him to get them by
the neck. (Cheers.)
It was a golden opportunity for this suburban
alderman's hero to pulverise the alleged
“slanders." Yet beyond the usual unsatisfying
generalisations about “diabolical calumnies ” and
“shameless untruths,” Wade didn’t pulverise a
thing. He side-stepped details as though they
were death-adders. His mayoral admirer gave
him the chance of his lifetime to stat„e definitely
that the Coercion Act didn’t abrogate trial by
jury, and hadn’t been condemned as shockingly
arbitrary by the most Conservative journals in
the Conservative land of J. Bull. The chance
was allowed to slide. Wade might have paralysed
his Labor opponents by announcing, once and for
all, that he never remitted half the fine imposed
on McKlB, the big North Sydney baker, without
reference to the Judge who tried the case. The
Labor people say Wade did remit half McKye’s
fine; also, that McKye was a second offender;
also, that Judge Heydon denounced McKye’s
offence as “particularly contumacious”; also,
that the same Judge was astounded at Wade’s
interference with that well-earned penalty. At
Annandale Wade discoursed in a large fashion
about “dead cats” and thelike, but he didn’t come
down to bedrock and deny a single one of the
foregoing and other things alleged against him.
Within a few feet of him there was a worshipper
who would have given anything to hear him get
“by the neck” those persons who had charged
his Justice Department with sending out police-
men to sound the jury-men empanelled to try
Peter Bowling. Yet no one was throttled.
The subject was left severely alone. The wire-
netting steal (perpetrated while C. G. Wade was
Attorney-General) wasn’t mentioned ; nor was
Barren jack and its 25 miles of soon-to-be
irrigated, yet still unresumed, land—property from
whicheventhe “Liberal” press,now recognises that
private owners are going to make a vast profit at
the public expense. In a word, despite the en-
couraging presence of a large crowd of people of
the same way of thinking as his chairman—folks
who simply yearned to hear him “ grapple with
the vile lies of his opponents and throw them
back at those who utter them to choke them ”
Wade preserved the murkiest silence. There is
only one inference to be d rawn: he confined himself
to wild, inconclusive yelps about “calumny” and
“ injustice ” because he dared not get down to de-
tails, the charges being true. If only for the credit
of its own intelligence, it is up to “Liberalism”
to drop the “ calumny ” cry till the person who is
said to be calumniated butts in and definitely
controverts some of the so-called calumnies. At
present, for all the passionate demands of his sup-
porters that he shall speak and choke his. de-
tractors, Wade continues as embarrassedly silent
as a malefactor apprehended with the goods about
him.
— *
The Strange Vagaries of “Justice.”
Three police-court cases, reported recently in
different parts of Australia, indicate what a wild
gamble the law is liable to be. At the Fitzroy
(Vic.) court, the following evidence was given:—
Amelia Shanahan stated that after she retired to bed
last night her husband pulled her on the floor and kicked
her about the hips. She had been kicked and punched
by her husband earlier in the evening-. Defendant earned
good wages, but spent all his money in hotels, and she
had to work to support herself.
Defendant: You were drunk yesterday.
Witness: I was not. You gave me 75., but it cost me
ss. 6d. to get* your coat out of pawn.
Constable D. Brown gave evidence that when he
arrested defendant he found Mrs. Shanahan in a state of
collapse.
There were absolutely no mitigating circum-
stances—and the Bench handed the guilty party
the blighting penalty of a 40-shilling fine. At
Wagga (N.S.W.), about the same time, Frederick
Cheney pleaded guilty to cruelty to horses on
August 22 and 23. According to the local paper :
Sub-Inspector Musgravb stated that Cheney had three
horses in a waggon, and the wheels of the latter became
bogged. As the horses would not pull it out, he left
them from sundown on the 22nd ult. until the next
morning. On both days, it was alleged, he procured
a stick and an axe and beat the horses.
Constable Brownlee stated that he visited the place
and examined the horses. One in particular seemed to
have been very severely illtreated, its ribs and haunches
beinv covered with blood, the hair matted together and
the body covered with bruises.
Two witnesses stated that the horses were kept m the
roadway from 7.30 p.m. on the 22nd until noon the
next day. Mrs.- Rynehart said that in the evening
accused was beating them with a stick. Mrs. Dunkley
stated that he was hitting the horses with a stick, and
on one of them applied the back of an axe.
After listening to which, the magistrate remarked
severely that “if it had been proved that Cheney
had used the sharp edge of the axe he would
have sent him to gaol for three months,” and
then imposed a fined of £2. The reverse
side of the picture was presented at the
Sydney Water Police Court last week when
Frank Snaide was charged with having no
visible means of support, and in that condition
“ loafing about Potts Point.” He was sentenced
to six months’ hard labor ! Yet, beyond the fact
that he was dirty, that he dwelt with a number
of dogs on a vacant allotment and that the Potts
Pointers didn’t approve of him, the police had no
overt reproach to level at Snaide. In the case of
Shanahan, of Victoria, it is probably due to the
luck of owning a wife with a stout constitu-
tion that that appalling ruffian hadn’t to stand
his trial on a charge of murder. The Law’s treat-
ment of him amounts practically to a magisterial
license to others of similar tastes to go and
do likewise. What sort of a deterrent is
the possibility of a 40s. fine to a really en-
thusiastic wife-beater, anyhow? In regard to
the case of Fred Cheney and those who
adjudicated on it, words fail and comment collapses
on the floor. Here the Bench lays it down that
so long as a man or brute, in charge of horses,
refrains from hacking them with the sharp side
of an axe, he will be let off with a fine. Questions
that surge up in this connection are—-(1) If men
don’t deserve gaol who beat and kick women
into “a state of collapse,” and who torture defence-
less animals for hours at a time, when do they
deserve it? And (2) if wife-beaters and horse-
torturers merit only trifling fines for their most
blood-thirsty efforts, what is a fair punishment
for a citizen who camps with some dogs on a
vacant allotment? Should he get six months’
hard labor, or a purse of sovereigns?
»
Something More Important Than Leg-Irons.
The shindy as to who ironed Peter Bowling,
and why and wherefore; and whether he was
manacled according to the regulations or
the cold hatred of Wade (who refers to him as
“ a criminal ”), or the fear of the gaol-overseers
that he was a desperate bloke who might kick the
Black Maria to smithereens to spite the Govern-
ment, threatens to last up to the day of
election to the eclipse of several other mat-
ters of more vital importance. One of those
matters is the Coercion Act, which was blud-
geoned through the N. S. Wales Assembly last
December at one sitting, and which is the most
befitting monument to stand as the headstone at
the grave of the Wade combination. By the pro-
visions of that Act any officer of police, from a
sergeant upwards, who has reasonable grounds to
believe that any building is being used fora meet-
ing for the purpose of instigating or aiding in a
lockout or strike, may whistle up a battering ram
and bust the place up to satisfy his suspicions.
And in the event of finding two or three persons in-
side, he can lug them along the pavement until he
reaches a lockup, where they will be deposited
until opportunity occurs to try them. If Wade’s
law is satisfied that the citizens who were found
sitting round the dining-room fire when the police
broke in with an axe were even instigating a
strike, then the said citizens may be sentenced to
12 months’ hard struggle in Wade’s gaol. Simi-
larly with two persons “assembled ” to aid or
encourage a strike (calling out “’Ooray” might
put a strike in fresh heart, and the inser-
tion of ten bob into the hat for the hungry
women and children of the strikers would be real
bosker aid) —12 months’ hard 1 And whether the
provisions of that Act are, or are not, “without
parallel in the history of Great Britain and Aus-
tralia,” as McGowen declared, the method of
passing them was infamous. The following is no
summary of the proceedings, but the actual record
after the second reading had been stopped by the
application of the “gag,” moved by Lonsdale,
and carried by 42 votes to 32 :
The Speaker : The question is that the Bill be now
read a second time.—Carried by 43 to 32.
Mr. Wood moved that the Bill be taken in committee. —
Carried by 44 to 32.
Chairman : Clause 1, short title
Mr. Wood : X move that the question be now put.
(Boots and yells.)— Carried by 40 to 33.
Chairman : The question is the clause stand part of the
Bill.—Carried by 42 to 32.
Chairman : Clause 2
Mr. Wood : I move that the question be now put
(howls). —Carried by 41 to 33.
Chairman : The question is that the clause stand part
of the Bill.—Carried by 42 to 32.
Chairman : Clause 3
Mr. Wood : I move that the question be now put (up-
roar, etc.) —Carried by 40 to 33.
Chairman : The question is that the clause stand- part
of the Bill.—Carried by 42 to 32.
Chairman : Clause 4
Mr. Wood: I move that the question be now put
(ferocious dissension). —Carried by 40 to 32.
Chairman: The question is that the clause stand part
of the Bill.—Carried by 43 to 32.
Chairman : Clause 5
Mr. Wood: I move that the question be now put.
(Gall and fury). —Carried by fhto 33.
Chairman : The question is thaKthe clause stand part
of the Bill.—Carried by 43 to 32. \
Mr. Wood: I move that the Chairman do now leave
the chair and report the Bill without amendment.—
Carried by 41 to 30.
Bill reported.
Mr. Lee : I move that the report be adopted.
Mr. Wood : I move that the question be now put (in-
furiated language).— Carried by 41 to 32.
The Speaker : The question is that the report be
adopted.—Carried by 44 to 32.
Mr. Lee : I move that the Bill be now read a third time.
Mr. Wood : I move that the question be now put.
(Curses and continued belloivmg).— Carried by 41 to 32.
The Speaker: The question is that the Bill be now
read a third time.—Carried by 43 to 32.
And this same bludgeoning Wood, when a point
of order was taken against Wade during the
second reading, to prevent him dealing with
matters calculated to prejudice the trial of men
arrested in connection with the Newcastle
trouble, had the hide to say to the Speaker
You being invited to give a ruling, I submit—and, if I
may say so, I do it with a due regard to the position of
the Chair, and as a warning to the Chair— that the Chair
is not here to deprive any individual member of the
House, whether he sits on the Government side or on the
Opposition side, of those rights vested in him as a mem-
ber of the House. An hon. member is entitled to
discuss anything that may crop up in relation
to its bearing on the people of the country and the
doings of the House. ... So long as the Premier or any
other hon. member confines his remarks to the legitimate
issue before the House—that is, the passing of a measure
to deal with the industrial conditions that exist outside
—just so long must every hon. member have th'e fullcst,
freest and most complete right to express hiS' opinions,
here to-night.
Having expounded himself in such democratic lan-
guage, he sat down, metaphorically spat on his
hands, took a firm grip of the sandbag and “ stif-
fened out ” the House. The men who helped him
through with this refined method of Responsible
Government were Arthur, Ball, Barton,
Briner, Broughton, W. Brown, Clarke,
Collins, Davidson, Donaldson, Downes,
Fallick, Fitzpatrick, Gilbert, Graham (Jimmy),
B. Hall, Latimer, Henley, Hindmarsh, Hogue,
Hunt, James, Lee, Levy. Lonsdale, Mahony,
McCoy, McFarlane, Millard, McLaurin,
Moore, Morton, Moxham, Nobbs, Oakes,
Onslow, Parkes, Perry, Robson, Thomas and
Waddell. Wade left the chamber on the
ground that he was sick, which is probably true—
it was enough to make a glue-factory sick.
White Ants.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Most of the Labor members who voted for the Yass-
Canberra site were influenced by purely parochial in-
terests. — Political Item,.
Says Mac the Splitter to me, says he,
“ There’s many a fair an’ sightly tree,
There’s many a tall, young ash I ve seen,
Straight in the barrel an’ seemin’ clean ;
But you find when she’s down an’ you take a cut
She’s rotten with ants from head to butt.
An’ ants is the Devil, you take it from me,”
Says Mac the Splitter, “an’ worse,” says he.
Says Mac the Splitter to me, one day :
“ I’m a fair good judge o’ the trees that pay ;
At failin’ orsplittin’ I’m hard to beat. '
But ants ! They worry a cove a treat;
An’ there’s scarce a tree in this belt, I guess,
Ain’t got some ants in her, more or less.
But you’ll find me pickin’ the soundest tree,”
Says Mac the Splitter. “My oath !” says he.
Says Mao the Splitter : “ Now listen here ;
Them ants they guv me a strange idear ;
An’, talkin’ o’ this ’ere politics game,
I judge them Parties an’ trees the same.
There’s none of ’em free from a fault or knot,
An’ some has the borers, an’ some the rot.
An’ them State Insects, it seems to me,”
Says Mac the Splitter, “is ants” says he.
Says Mao the Splitter : “ I dunno much
Of these political moves an’ such ;
But I ain’t such a darn poor judge as some,
An’ I didn’t look twice at the Fusion gum.
It was rot, dry rot, as a fool could note ;
An’ I says, ‘ That' tree don’t get my vote.’
So I looks around for a sounder tree,”
Says Mac the Splitter. “ That’s what,” says he.
Says Mac the Splitter : “ I cruised around ;
The Labor tree looked clean an’ sound ;
So I took a chip o’ the policee.
Same as I’d chip a palin’ tree ;
I carted it home an’ tried the wood,
An’ it seemed all straight in the grain an’ good.
Thinks I, ‘ This ’ere is a boshter tree,”’
Says Mac the Splitter, “ bar ants,” says he.
Says Mac the Splitter : “ You never can tell
Till you open her up; an’ ants is Hell !
An’ these State Insects—spare me days !
Have all the worst of the wliite-ant ways.
They work inside of her, out o’ sight.
You chip an’ sound her an’ vote her right;
But when you open that straight, sound tree,”
Says Mac the Splitter—“ Gorstrooth !” says he.
Says Mac the Splitter: “ I call it dirt!
I feel all out, an’ me pride is hurt.
Fer there ain’t a bloke that can judge a tree
Ip the whole darn forest along with me.
I’ll swear that tree I chipped was good,
An’ the chip was straight, clean, honest wood ;
But, I’ve found white ants in me Labor Tree”
Says Mac the Splitter. “ Damn ants ! ” says he.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


HEADACHE and MIQRIM, two curses of modern
civilised life, are in ninety-nine eases out of a hundred
closely connected with functional disturbance of the
bowels. The simplest and best of all remedies for the
latter trouble is a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Janos ”
natural aperient water taken before breakfast every
second or third morning.*
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
IV Moving Picture Machines and Films.
- BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place ; Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
The “S. M. Herald’s” Testimonial to Labor.
Last Tuesday was a memorable occasion in the
annals of the N.S. W. Labor Party. On that day
the S. M. Herald arose honestly (though cantan-
kerously) on its two feet, and did the Square
Thing or Quadrangular Substance. To all intents
and purposes it took back all its previous remarks.
In times gone by, it was the fashion of the Tory
press to wail that the Labor party represented a
class only ; that it was a mere horny-handed con-
glomeration ; that it was a pick-and-shovel body
with a pick-andAihovel mind, trying to run the
country on pick-and-shovel principles in the pick-
and-shovel interest, and with a complete disregard
of anything and everything that wasn’t pick-and-
shovel. It was constantly and strenuously pointed
out that there wasn’t in the Labor party one
financier who could be trusted with control of the
Treasury or one lawyer who could hold the
Attorney-General’s job—not even a very poor
lawyer. And now—well, let the S. M. Herald
speak for itself :
One of the most striking features of the political Labor
movement—and the one to which the average unionist
seems to be persistently blind—is the manner in which,
year by year, the genuine laborer is being increasingly
shouldered aside, and the movement itself used for the
advancement of outsiders. Thefirst Parliamentary Labor
party was brought intd existence as a direct outcome of
the big 1890 strike in which the working men suffered so
severely', and the members of it were practically all mem-
bers of the class it was sought to represent. With the
growth of union organisation it became obvious that to
fight an election from the Labor side meant far less
trouble and expense than if fought from the other side.
The undrilled forces of Liberalism called for strenuous
efforts if they were to be properly marshalled, whereas as
time went on the Labor ranks marched to order with
more and more machine-like precision. This state of
affairs inevitably drew the eyes of political self-seekers
towards the Labor movement. Election after election
saw ah increasing number of outsiders worming their way
into the Labor camp, and fewer and fewer genuine
workers on the hustings. Thus it comes about that, as
against the list of laborers, miners, engineers, plasterers,
bricklayers, able-bodied seamen; battery hands, wharf-
laborers, boiler-makers, shearers, etc., who made up the
first Labor party in 1891, we have attached to the names
Of candidates standing in the Labor interest to-day
the following occupations : —Barrister-at-law, solicitor,
grazier, manufacturer, clergyman, managing director,
land agent, patent attorney', auctioneer, newspaper pro-
prietor, contractor, commission agent, librarian, master
coachbuilder, master tanner, chemist, factory manager,
commercial traveller, teacher, clerk, accountant.
These are a few of the occupations figuring in the list ;
but surely they are sufficient to cause the genuine
worker to ask himself whether all the Labor candidates
are burning with a zealous passion for the uplifting of
the masses—or with just such a passion for the uplifting
of themselves.
The curious point is that the S.M. Herald doesn’t
seem any better satisfied than it was before. It
used to complain that the Labor party only re-
presented a class. Now it complains even more
bitterly that the Labor party is beginning to
assimilate men of all classes.
♦
A Lawyer and a Loophole.
J. Drysdalk Brown, Victorian Attorney-General,
says he is going to prosecute, under the Crimes
Act, certain railway employees whose disregard
of certain profusely disregarded regulations is
alleged to have produced the Richmond accident.
BroWn’s intention was no sooner published than
it-was condemned as useless, and worse than use-
less. Among others, the Shop Assistants’ Federa-
tion, which represents a large section of the
public -interested in the injured passengers, pro-
tested against the Government’s decision to
criminally prosecute men whom no jury, it de-
clared, would convict, thus putting the country
to great expense and getting nothing in return.
The mover of this resolution, himself an old rail-
way man, declared further that J. Drysdalk
Brown’s talk of prosecution was likely to “ cover
up the cheeseparing policy which is the primary
cause of the enormous number of accidents that
have occurred under the Commissioners’ re-
gime.” Rightly or wrongly, the Victorian
public has thus settled the question in its
own mind ; wherefore the astonishing move
of J. Drysdalk Brown challenges the indignation
of 20 times as many citizens as dropped un-
favorable comments on the same Attorney-
General’s recent costly prosecution of Robert
Harper and others, in connection with a low-down
blackmailing conspiracy. In that case the public,
knowing nothing save what it read, was easily
led to suppose that J. Drysdalk Brown had a
fund of secret information to draw upon, and
would be able to justify his costly proceedings.
And even when he failed utterly to do anything
of the sort, the fact that the victim was a wealthy
man and a much-abused employer, ensured him a
certain amount of loud approval from persons and
organisations whose prejudices paralysed their
judgment. But, in his dealing with the Richmond
case, he has no such force of prejudice behind
him, and no uninformed public, hungry for
“revelations,” in front of him. He stands ex-
posed to all-round criticism as an Attorney-
General who proposes to scatter public money
upon a few lawyers in what is held to be
an attempt to visit the sins of the rail-
way administration upon the heads of sundry
employees, who may or may not be blamable, but
are certainly not the prime sinners. Everybody
knows—even the whitewashing Board of Inquiry
stated the fact—that the smash at Richmond
could not possibly have occurred under an up-to-date
system of safeguarding the public. Also, everybody
knows that many passengers were killed or terribly
injured, not as a result of the collision merely,-but
owing to the fault of the Department in running
a 40-year-old carriage in conjunction with two
younger and stouter carriages, which smashed it to
matchwood between them. With circumstances
of that nature well known, what good can be
achieved by prosecuting these employees ? And
hf»w is Attorney-General Brown going to restore
confidence in the Railway Department by com-
mitting the Government to a course in which the
public so promptly expresses its utter want of
confidence ?
«
From the Old Soldier :
The railway breaks-of-gauge are bad, of course, and
would hamper defence work ; but, for all that, I don’t
believe the yarn that 30,000 mounted troops would need
63 days to go by rail from Melbourne to Brisbane under
present conditions. They could pretty nearly march the
distance by road in the time. Soldiers with arms and
accoutrements require more room than ordinary pas-
sengers. A compartment that would hold 10 of the
one lot would be crowded with eight of the others. One
hundred and fifty men and horses are a load for a train of
34 carriages and trucks. Therefore 30,000 would need
SBK) trains. How many trains a day could pass along the
line? The Russians say they find it dangerous to run
more than 10 on a single track. At any rate, it would
take 20 days to get the 30,000 away from Melbourne.
Even if there were no break-of-gauge, men and horses
could not-be run straight through from Melbourne to
Brisbane—l3oo/ miles. Neither men nor horses could
stand it; it would mean keeping them cooped
up without food or i'est for two days to 2J days
at least. Without an3'l break-of-gauge, then, from the
time the first of the 200 trains left Melbourne till the last
arrived in Brisbane, at leas-rt 22Jdays would elapse ; andif
(say) two-hours in every eight were allowed, for rest and
refreshment, the -time would still be extended by only'
another half day for each,cargo. But even that wouldn’t
bump out the total periodmuch beyond the half of the
allegad 63 days. f
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “Cavaileria Rusticana" and “I
Pagliacci.”
Criterion “ The Night of the Party.”
Palace “The Little Breadwinner.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Sign of the Cross.”
Her Majesty's “The Whip.”
Royal “Tom Jones.”
R* NQ s “ The Winning Ticket.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall Taits’ Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciaiuum Ice Skating (closes Saturday).
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Why does a piece like “Our Miss Gibbs,”
which has been warmly acclaimed by English
critics, and is billed as “the greatest musical
success of our generation,” appear such negligible
stuff when considered in this country ? The music
is good enough in its own familiar fashion. The
producer at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) has done his
work nobly. The stage picturesVire beautiful; so
are the stage ladies and their dresses. Some of
the lyrics are astonishingly smooth and clever.
The principals know their business from A to Z.
And yet the result is unsatisfying. To the writer
it seems that “ Our Miss Gibbs ” is too racy of the
London soil to stand transplantation to these parts,
where the topical hits and gags of the tiny area
which is bounded by the metropolitan cab radius
are Greek to9opercent, of theatre-goers. Thegentle
satire latent in the character of Hughie Pierre-
point, gentleman crook, is lost on us to a great
extent. Australian theatres haven’t been teem-
ing for the past two years with noble-
hearted amateur cracksmen. We have never
seen the original of Mr. Amalfy ; few
of as would know his name if we heard it. We
remember dimly to have read of Dorando in con-
nection with a Marathon race, but our Mara-
thons don’t finish in the haunts of fashion; and
so, when Timothy Gibbs puts on a grotesque run-
ning costume and flees through the White City,
his feat is only regarded as another manifestation
of dementia on the part of “Cryptos” or his
collaborator, James T. Tanner, constructor.
* * * *
Any Australian production of this playis
bound to labor under another severe handicap.
Hughie, the dominant figure in it, is, in the West
End of London, a perfectly understandable—one
might almost say credible—person. In Sydney
he is neither. Certainly, even in London, a
Pierrepoint would hesitate to wear purple evening
clothes, a heavily-frogged frock coat, and so On.
But he might safely talk and “ rag ” in the ex-
uberant Kirby manner, and not be oppressed with
fears of the asylum. _ George Grossmith, jun., a
genius in his own strictly-limited line, contributed
this type—the lineal descendant of the mid-Vic-
torian “ masher ” —to English society some years
ago. Not only is every gilded young Londoner
from White’s or the Bachelors in sympathy with
Pierrepoint (if only for the reason that, in him,
each One of them glimpses some part of his own
better, brighter self), but he also represents the
glass of fashion and mould of form for vast num-
bers of bank-clerks, shop assistants and others
doOmed to remain apart from the pageantry of
life. All Hughie’s quaint sayings and allusions and
queer turns of phrase make swift connection with
Londoners, for to them they are dear old friends.
Here his chaff falls flat, not because it isn’t an
excellent article in its line, but because, despite
spirited efforts to give it a local flavor by season-
ing it with references to Manly, Paris House and
Coogee, it is in a different language from ours.
* * * *
Where the characters handle phases and
emotions with which the audience is acquainted,
they meet with the customary response. The
love-story of sweet Mary Gibbs, whom a need-
lessly offensive Duchess seeks to separate
from her adorer. Lord Eynsford, is altern-
ately heart-rending and sentimentally pleas-
ing. The knockabout comedy of her relative
Timothy provokes loud and continuous laughter.
The subsidiary affair of the heart between Hughie
and Lady Elizabeth Thanet ends in a manner
gratifying to all right-thinkers. An interpolated
turn by Fred Leslie and Miss Ivy Schilling—part
dance and part muscular display brings
down the house. And then there is the
newcomer, Miss Blanche Browne. She has
all the hall-marks of the London Gaiety—
the gleaming and multifarious teeth, the grace,
the finish, the tiny, cultivated voice, the perfect
clothes, the true poise, the tendency to under-
play. She is a charming acquisition to a cast
whose remaining members, together with their
methods, are well and favorably known to
students of this sheet.
There are, of course, other notable things
in “ The Chance of a. Lifetime ” besides its dar-
ing and picturesque, but painfully inefficient,
villain. There are starting-gates, a weighing-
room, live horses and other paraphernalia of the
racecourse. There is a typical Ascot Enclosure
crowd of faultlessly-groomed male and female
smart-setters. There is a likely-looking Gold
Cup, which is filched from its stand in the Saddl-
ing Paddock by a calamitous-looking person in
burglar’s clothes, deposited in Captain Clinch’s
London flat, and subsequently removed there-
from by Mrs. Edgar, a virtuous female
whom the Captain has several times stren-
“THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME," AT
SYDNEY CRI.
The gentle villain,
Captain Clinch
(Frank Gerald).
The sporty hero,
Dick Douglas (Conway
Wingfield).
uously endeavored to Wrong, after the
Marcus-Mercia manner. Also, there is a trainer
who . goes racing in green velvet clothes,
but is, in other respects, a credible enough
sportsman. Conway Wingfield is the hero—a
breezy and well-intentioned youth, though not
too strong on the mental. side. Miss Harrie
Ireland makes a taking heroine. The Captain,
aforesaid, is played for all he is worth by Frank
Gerald, and the mare Trixie deserves a shout of
praise for the tractable way she walks up and
down stairs.
** * #
The J. C. Williamson Grand Opera Co.
began a short season at Sydney Royal, on Satur-
day, with a creditable production of “Carmen.”
There was a week-end rush of new shows, so
Bizet’s fiery opera didn’t get all the attention it
deserved ; but the people who did go were enthusi-
astic—which is more comforting to the principals
than to the manag'ement. Bel Sorel was the
Carmen, and Reginald Roberts the infatuated Don
Jose, who throws up his steady job as a soldier,
and his tunic with the 300 brass buttons, to keep
in with the. tobacco-factory lady. In this
instance, Don Jose had good and sufficient
reasons for losing his head along with his
heart and job, for Bel Sorel’s Carmen is
seductive enough to lure a Field-Marshal from the
War Office. Roberts made a complete success of
the part of the deluded brigadier. He sang
throughout with great spirit, and acted power-
fully right up to the gruesome ending outside the
Sydney Cricket Ground, where a regiment of
armed men are busy torturing a bull to death. It
is when he gets a chance at grand opera or a Gil-
bert and Sullivan r6le that Roberts is at his best ;
in the shallow musical comedies he usually does
not shine as much as.performers who, if they were
dumped into a part which required strong treat-
ment, would be .so lost that an adver-
tisement in the Missing Friends column
couldn’t find them. Arthur Crane sang the
music of the conquering Escamillo admirably ;
but his acting lacked fire. He looked haughty
enough to have slain a charging bull with one
glance; but bis pursuit of Carmen was almost
perfunctory. One of the finest things of the pro-
duction was Rosina Buckmann’s Michaela. Her
pure, flexible voice and clear enunciation made
her numbers a delierht, and she played with in-
tense sympathy. Rufus Ferguson and Edward
Wynn, as Dancairo and Reniendado, the smug-
glers, and Mabel Batchelor and Florence Quin, as
Frasquita and Mercedes, earned the word that
cheers. This (Thursday) evening “Carmen” will
be repeated, with Georgina Delmar and Frederick
Blarney as the principals. On Friday, Bel Sorel
and Roberts will agaiu take charge; and on
Saturday Amy Castles will appear for the first
time as Santuzza in “ Cavalleria Rusticana,” with
Roberts as Turiddu ; • and, later on, as Nedda in
“ I Pagliacci,” with Blarney as Canio.
** * *
Carreno’s quaternion of concerts came to
an end on Saturday night, when the great player,
with whom none take the liberty of criticism, in-
terpreted Chopin, Beethoven, Schumann, Tschai-
kowsky and Rubenstein in the higher flights of
some of those great Masters. The season ended,
Carrefio has gone to the mountains for a fort-
night’s recuperation.,,, A victorious wrestle with
the old and modern Masters generally calls for a
holiday afterwards. But on Tuesday, Thursday
and Saturday, October 11th, 13th and 15th, she
will make her positively last appearances in
Sydney. Therq is Benno Scherek’s word on it.
Afterwards Scherelc. will tour the Mistress of the
Ivories through South Africa.
* v/ *. #
“The Little Breadwinner,” which was
produced at Sydney Palace on Saturday, was billed
as “ the most charming and delightful of modern
child plays ” ; and after that warning the congre-
gation attended at its own risk. “The Littk
Bread winner” is not so much a play as a sermon.
Observe the plot: William Dorrington, lord by
accident and wowser by inclination, adopts
Richard Lawrence, who (a) is Gay but not
Wicked ; ( b ) falls in love with the aged wowser’s
granddaughter; (c) attends racecourses ; (d) knows
a bookie; ( e ) owes him a few quid; (/) is
accused by a serving Mary Ann in the house of
that offence which invariably causes the hero to
throw his fair forehead roofward and cry, “My
Gawd, it’s a wicked lie ! ” ; and (g) is booted out
of the ancestral home or monastery. Margaret
Daventry, the granddaughter, goes on the wallaby
with him. She marries him because he has no
money and is out of a job. Joseph Prior, confi-
dential secretary and private hypocrite, is the
cause of all the trouble —having pulled the leg of
old Judkins concerning Richard Lawrences
carrying-on, with the object of eventually eating
the ancestral cake. The hero and heroine, having
no more brains than the average followers of those
occupations, promptly starve when there is
nothing doing but work. As a matter of
fact, the lady goes stone blind looking for
a square meal. Fortunately, they have a
child who is able to take in washing and go out
Singing (in a manner of speaking). They are thus
enabled to live in comfort with Charles Prior
(brother of Joe), who, although a wealthy bookie,
threw his bag away to follow his pore, stone-broke
friend and help eat the hard-working child out
of house and home. After several years old Dor-
rington relents, the serving Marianne admits
that her diabolical accusation was a bluff insti-
gated by the confidential hypocrite, the said o.h. is
seruffed like a dog by a village constable with a
lop-sided nose, and everybody says “Good enough
for the Cow,” and goes home. And all is peace.
* * * *
Charles Brown, as the venerable snuffle-
buster whose intelligence is as thick and
easy-working as the dust-coat of a tortoise,
plays the part as naturally as if he had
spent his life in a Methodist Retreat; but
the rest of the people do their work by
rote and without deviation from the grand old
traditions of Drury Lane. The biggest share of
the audience’s appreciation is served out to
Queenie Williams, who appears in the name-
part, but it is mostly prompted by the maudlin
sentimentality which finds an outlet in nose-sniffs
and heart-bursting applause. Nevertheless, the
young lady deserves an honest word of praise, and
is offered it herewith. “The Little Bread-
winner” will continue to earn a crust until further
notice.
** * *
, Grade Grahame, the lady who boomed in
the days of Anderson’s “Wonderland,” has come
back to live up to the Tivoli programme’s
description—“ a box of mischief.” Miss Grahame
still owns the same old infectious smile ; but her
songs mostly require to be assisted with knowing
nods and winks and an occasional giggle l .
Dressed in academic robes, she looks through a
small telescope at different members of the audi-
ence, affects to regard them as stars, and invites
them to twinkle. Between the verses, she kneels
at the footlights and invites someone in the stalls
to “ hold her hand till the tram goes by.” (Roars
of laughter.) The audience is half the time
craning its neck to see what stallite she is
addressing. This sort of thing uses up the time
which other soubrettes fill in with dancing.
Morris Cronin’s humorous juggling remains the
large hunk of the cake of entertainment. Tom
Dawson’s songs make another fair-sized slice.
Barnes and West. Olga Grey, the Quealys, and
the Australian Gold Diggers’quartette supply
therest. The Newman modelaeroplanedemonstr;i-
tion is absorbing, and makes the onlooker hunger
to see a full-sized machine at work.
"CARMEN,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Edward Wynn, chief of the
smugglers.
Reginald Roberts
as Don Jose.
Nothing much can be said about the
Sydney Picture Shows this week, as the Lyceum
and West’s Glaciarium are due for a change of
programme at a time when the printer begins to
take charge of things, and the mere writer becomes
a person of no consequence. Nevertheless, one
cannot refrain from breathing a word of praise over
the splendid series that Spencer’s people secured
of the Children’s Demonstration at the Sydney
Cricket Ground. The whole scheme was excel-
lent. It is rumored that Spencer will, on his re-
turn from Europe, start a theatre where plays will
be staged and cinematographed, and Australians
will have an opportunity of seeing Australian
mummers in Australian scenes on films made
from start to finish in Australia. It is to be
hoped it’s a true bill. At the Glaciarium
the summer rush has commenced, and duiing
the few hot nights that have transpired,
the merry management has tickled the taste of
the gazers with some pictures in which there is an
unlimited water supply—the sort of supply which,
could Prime Minister Fisher capture that Djin
from the Brass Bottle, he would let loose in the
wastes of Yassberra.
The keenest visioned politician, when his
eyes are bandaged by parochial interests, can see
no further through a stone wall than the mentally
blind. But the thoughtful who clarify their
visions with inspiring glances at the amber light
of D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise, never have
to grope in intellectual gloom. D.C.L. flashes
the cheerful sunshine of wisdom into the darkest
of mental fogs.*
“THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sydney Cri. achieved, last week, that show
Where real, live thoroughbreds pervade the boards,
And stage-folk through the weirdest antics go
’Mid spielers, bookies, stable-boys and lords.
The piece abounds in marvels—that’s a cinch—
Yet all are tame compared with Captain Clinch.
Clinch is a man whose blank fatuity
And cold, considered wickedness combined
Must fill psychologists with morbid glee.
He is a type whom students of the mind
Pursue, as Lancelot did the Holy Grail,
And in their quest (what wonder ?) mostly fail.
Clinch, in his role.of sharper, makes a bid
For Trixie—as he doesn’t get the mare,
He “ lays ” her with her owner and a Yid
(A worthy soul) in thousands. Why the pair
Are mad enough to book a single bet
With one like Clinch has got me puzzled yet.
Some blackmail follows ; after which the Cap.
Essays to burgle Trixie from her stall.
He’s promptly foiled. What odds! This slight mishap
Disturbs the gallant fellow not at all.
His lexicon ignores the word “ success,”
And yet he does : not machinate the'less.
His asinine attempt to “ square ” the lad
Who rides the Gold Cup fav’rite fails, of course ;
As does his plot—audacious ; in fact, mad—
To have the jockey “ outed ” on the horse.
You’d think the Captain’s game, by now, was up?
Not so. He hires a pal to steal the Cup.
Alas! The Cap.’s innate incompetence
Benders him wholly powerless to hold
The goblet which another’s skill and sense
Have won. Once more 'mid hoots and jeers he’s
bowled »
Right out. He hooks it—to the last a crass,
Crude malefactor and a tragic ass.
N.s.w.
D.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, -293 George Street, Sydney.
SOFT FELT HATS.
Two of the newest and most popular styles In Men’s Soft Felts
—light weight, and well adapted for country or city wear*
ĥ
Stetson-s Real Nutria Fur Kettle Finish Hats, In
Grey, Green and Beaver, as illustration, 36/-;
Blaok ..... . .27/6.
Stetson’s Hard Black Hats 25/-
Write for our
Men’s Cata-
logue, which
we send post
free to any
address.
ħ
Soft Felt Hats in Grey, Beaver and Mid-Brown
with brims from 2Jin. to 3Jin. wide, as illus-
tration 14/6, 15/6, 17/6.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all Goods exeept Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchen
and Hardware, to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD., Sydney
EY
Dr. B. Allen’s (TJ.S.A )
Mexican Walnut Stain
is guaranteed Washable
and absolutely harmless.
None genuine without the sig-
nature of Alfred Ardley
(Registered).
In the present revival of “The Sign of
the Cross,” as was mentioned last week, Mel-
bourne will pay its last respects to Julius Knight’s
manly limbs, which, by the way, have now
arrived at full maturity. The wily old melo-
drama drew a crowded audience last Saturday, so
its fortnight will doubtless be prosperous. Judged
by the rules of comparison with rival attractions,
“ The Sign ” deserves to prosper. This is not the
best or second-best all-round performance of
“The Sign” that Melbourne has seen, but it has
points of particular merit. Cyril Mackay is a
most forcible Licinius, whilst Winter Hall makes
Tigellinus a dignified, subtle, matter-of-fact per-
son. Miss Gleeson is an admirable Stephanus,
and Miss Nellie Calvin, as the irresponsible
Dacia, would be as charming as she is natural but
for her tripk of gasping her lines. On the other
hand, Sydney Stirling is a weak and colorless
Nero, Miss Wilson is an over-demonstrative
Berenice, and Miss Warwick is a merely tall and
beautiful Mercia. The indications of early Chris-
tian hysteria are lacking in her voice, and her
acting is tame.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the first
week of “ The Whip” left the management with
nothing more to desire in the way of business.
Minus its two principal “ sensation ” scenes, this
would be a sufficiently big melodrama, though not
as strong in interest as, say, “ The White Heather.”
With the amazing railway accident and the re-
markable horse race added to its less unreason-
able attractions, “The Whip” is, seemingly,
a “bonza.” Tumultuous applause greets the
achievement of the “express” engine, which
collides with the empty horse-box and shat-
ters it at one fell tap. The audience is
too excited to notice that the onrushing train
comes to a full stop when it has assaulted the
fragile vehicle in the rear. And, inasmuch as the
true purpose of melodrama is to paralyse the pub-
lic’s critical faculty, the stage-manager—Wybert
Stamford—may be complimented on the Great
Railway Smash. It divides first prize for popu-
larity with Henry Claude, the hoarse-voiced boy
at the Waxworks. A minor mechanical effect in
“ The Whip ” is the motor accident in the first act.
This has been giving the manager an anxious time.
At the dress-rehearsal of the drama a live man
of ordinary rank impersonated the noble earl
who gets hurled from the motor; but the luckless
counterfeit happened to break his leg in the
catastrophe. After this disheartening experi-
ence the realism of a live man was withdrawn in
favor of a small dummy earl, to whom the acci-
dent didn’t matter. But the dummy, being light
and uncontrollable, used to get hurled too far out
of the motor-car, and sometimes he struck the
beautiful summer sky on the back cloth, and biffed
so violently against a fleecy cloud that sawdust
flew out of him. Therefore, in the interests of
realism, the scandalous effigy was taken off the
job, and another real man, with a talent for falling
soft, is now rising to the occasion.
** * *
“ The Winning Ticket,” at the King’s, is
now in its third week and thusfar the rough-edged
Australian horse drama with its mostly plebeian
characters —the only “titled” person being the
wandering villain who is a French Count —pro-
mises to stick to the girths of the gilt-edged
favorite from Drury Lane. Everybody, in a way
of speaking, must see “ The Whip,” and to have
seen Williamson’s show is to have a terrible crav-
ing to see Anderson’s show. Even the most
exalted scorners of Australian manufacture
are yielding to the temptation. An old
Spanish proverb says, “First the man takes
a drink. Then the drink takes a drink.
Then the drink takes the man.” But The
Bulletin trusts that man will stop at the
second drink of hippodrama, and not allow it to
get him fairly down. The railway train-cwm-
water-jump scene in “The Winning Ticket ” has
been elaborated of late, and nowanights Red-
grave, the wicked Count, shifts the swing bridge
in the first place, which is a reasonable thing to
do, in order that Beckett may shift it back into
position before the tram arrives. The horrors of
this situation should be less hurriedly piled up,
however. The tempo is too rapid, Anderson
will be having a death in the audience, if he
doesn’t mind.
** * *
“Sergeant Brue,” the quaint farcical
comedy interrupted by musical items, is putting
in one week at Melbourne Royal. The company now
gathered around Cromwell, as Crookie Scrubbs,
is widely different from the former co. Brue, in
the hands of Percy Clifton, is a more possible and
less amusing policeman than the departed Brett
made him. Miss Gilliam has less voice than her
predecessor; also Shortland, as Mr. Crank, tends
to feebleness of expression. But Crookie amounts
to more than half the absurdity, and Cromwell is
as raucously droll as heretofore. On Saturday
comes the new comic opera—“ Tom Jones” —with
a new prima donna in the part of Sophia Western.
Edward German’s music is said to be fine, and the
book of the opera runs presumably on the lines of
Buchanan’s adaptation from the original story,
which Brough and Boucicault staged 20 years ago.
Dolores was welcomed, on Saturday night,
in the Melbourne Town Hall by what was obvi-
ously a room-full of Dolores admirers. The
event suggests that other fine artists (Carreiio,
for example) may be encouraged to regard Mel-
bourne as a good city to come back to. Dolores
appears to be classed as a comet due once
every four years; and, as comets lack the
monotony of fixed stars, her advent, with
lustre undimmed, is an occasion that justifies
the warm hand of welcome. On Saturday night
there was a clear atmosphere, and the display
attained unusual brilliance, and covered no less
than 18 song flashes. They ranged from the
florid music of Verdi’s Rigoletto, through two
Schumann songs, to the simple melody of McCoy,
whoever he may be. When, in the McCoy song,
Dolores warbled: “If I were a clover, and you
were a bee, would you seek me?” the audience
hadn’t to think twice for the right answer. The
industry displayed in bringing to light many
songs of other times opens up a new charm in
concert singing. Four songs on Saturday s pro-
gramme dated from 1700 to 1827. A McDowell song
was a reminder that Clarence Newell, the Cali-
fornian pianist, who came out with Dolores
some years ago, introduced the music of
that American composer to Australia. By the
way, Dolores always brings an American pianist.
Newell is remembered as a youthful and unaf-
fected performer, with an unprofessional scorn for
the matted skull-thatch. Franz Boyd Wells was
of the same type, and now we have Selwyn
Shrimplin, who is nowhere near Paderewski as
regards hair. All three, however, play accom-
paniments that ripple like echoes of the Dolores
song notes.
#* * *
The latest comer to speak of at the Opera
House is Larry Lewis, who brings no air of
novelty with him. Barring an increase in avoir-
dupois, he is the same gentle Larry as of old, with
the same outstanding jacket. Also, he remarks
with undiminished veracity that his song is silly.
Powell and Vesey are giving a new sketch in
bright style, the Charlenes make good their claim
to be “piquant musical experts,” Bluett is still
scouting, and Meymott continues to want his
tooth drawn so that he can put it on the mantel-
pieqe and watch it ache.
* * * * .'
The toe-ball semi-final between Carlton
and South Melbourne is being reproduced at
Melbourne Olympia. The picture is curiously
interesting, for it shows the football face in
various weird and woeful expressions. Still more
attractive is the film of the Australian destroyer
Yarra flinging the sea into corrugations of foam.
The mawkish bit is supplied by “Convict 796,”
which urges the virtuesof hymns as moralspecifics.
In this case it is the strains of “Lead, Kindly
Light ” that melt the malefactor’s ’ard ’eart.
“ THE WINNING TICKET ,” AT
MELBOURNE KING'S.
Gus Franks as Mike
Finnigan.
Fred Kehoe as Dick the
Rabbiter (down for
the Cup).
“ The Bandit’s Wife,” which nightly
hastens o’er the sheet at Melbourne Athenaeum,
is probably founded on a yarn by the late O.
Henry. Anyhow, the tragedy of the lady who is
shot by her lover in mistake for her husband is
reminiscent of a story by the brilliant American.
There is a suspicion of real comedy about another
item, “ The Midnight Cupid,” which is a tale of an
imposition marching to the tune of Love’s Young
Dream. A further newcomer is “Purgation,” a
fable of a young man’s sins and his final redemp-
tion, highly adulterated with the saccharine stuff
which most picture-women absorb with a glutton-
ous pleasure.
** * *
Three new efforts in Australian dramatic
literature will be staged at the pretty little Turn
Verein Hall on Wednesday night next week.
Louis Esson, William Moore and Miss Prichard
are the trio of dramatists, and outside of their
interesting contributions to the bill there will be
recitations and things—including coffee. No
seats will be reserved on this Bohemian occasion.
The price will be 3s. 6d. to any part of the hall,
which accommodates 700 people. An intellectual
atmosphere ordinarily prevails at Turn Verein
gatherings, but in this instance the air will be
several degrees over-proof, and by persons in
need of divine afflatus the opportunity should not
be missed.
* # *
The English Opera has ended a striking
and, on the whole, successful season at Adelaide
Royal, with Amy Castles making a plucky effort
to look like the consumptive heroine of “La
Boheme.” The group of men played up to her
finely. Now “ The Third Floor Back ” has come
in. Adelaide reckons itself just the city to ap-
preciate drama with an evangelical tinge, and the
inevitable controversy has begun already. On
first impressions, the weakness of the play as a
play is the unfailing way in which one bird after
another comes down as the Stranger shoots. It
saysmuch for the acting that a feeling of monotony
can be avoided. The Tivoli has the ten Kremos.
One wonders how many more of the seemingly
endless family have been spoiled in the making—
fractured or dislocated for life while working up
to the present pitch of daring and success. The
Yeamans-Titus lady has come in; she still does
baby impersonations, though she is getting quite
a big girl now. Mendel has wisely moved on, just as
he was tending to become monotonous. He might
be better stage-managed, and one hopes he will
soon have made money enough to devote himself
to his art. It was quite pathetic to see him listen-
ing to Carreiio, and a man who can on a sudden
demand improvise on “ Alas, Those Chimes ! ” in
the unmistakable manner of Wagner—as he did
one night last week —deserves a better fate than
having to play two tunes at once while he bluffs
at singing a third. Concerts are everywhere,
notably two at which the massed forces of the
State schools crowded the Exhibition with a de-
lighted audience of parents and others. The Elder
Conservatorium backed up this venture in. the
most sporting way by lending its orchestra.
MUSINGS ON MELBOURNE’S MELODRAMAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Nero reigned in mighty Rome there were no motor-
cars,
No railway trains, or jockey boys, or whisky and cigars ,
No Paris fashions ruled the dames and cramped their
walking gait;
Men’s garments then were not the same as now are up-
to-date ;
And sinners sinned without disguise, and left the public
park
To Christians, who assembled there, in secret, after dark.
In those good old dramatic days of Pagan unbelief,
The wicked triumphed in the end, and Virtue came to
grief.
So, having gazed upon “The Whip,” and seen the Bridge
that Swings—
The one is at Her Majesty’s, the other at the King’s-
Seen one gee win the Guineas, and another win the Cup,
This bard with sporting drama has been latterly fed up ;
And he beams on bare-legged Marcus in the Wilson
Barrett play,
And he nods to Tigellinus in a friendly sort of way.
For the gory times of Nero, when the motor-car was not,
And the scheming of the villains didn’t constitute the
plot,
To him seem more artistic, in their garb and moral tone,
Than these days of racing dramas which include a
telephone.
It is good to lose the present in a dream of long a-gone,
When the lions ate the Wowsers, and the bad men held
their own.
VICTORIA.
O.K.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“The Whip,” from a racing man’s point of view, has
one virtue. Other sporting melodramas have been pre-
posterously impossible in their betting transactions.
The stone-broke hero almost invariably made a. fortune
by laying odds on , or at least even money on, the. gee-gee
tnat the villain meant to “ nobble.” Every reference to the
market odds was an insult to a punter’s understanding,
But in “ The Whip ” the people talk reasonably. The
sporty girl tells her best earl, in confidence, that the
dark horse in her noble grandpa’s stable has won its trial
by 20 lengths, and suggests that he shall back it with a
leviathan bookmaker who happens to be drunk and reck-
less just then. A very wealthy bookmaker,doing business
in a drunken, vainglorious state, is not a feasible proposi-
tion, but he comes within the bounds of dramatic license.
In this case the “ plunging” earl catches Joe Kelly fairly
on the bound and asks him to lay the odds in thousands,
to which Joe responds with an offer to oblige his lordship
three times over. Then he quotes his prices—level £3OOO
against the favorite or £15,000 to £3OOO against the second
favorite. Having named another horse or two without
drawing the wager, he is challenged to quote his price
against the field. He offers 20 to 1 and the punter names
the dark horse, The Whip, and pots him for the full
amount —£60,000 to £3OOO. Whereupon, Kelly naturally
surmises that he has been taunted into a trap, throws his
betting-book down and curses himself for a blanky fool.
Subsequently, the wicked Captain, having also got the
“ tip,” tries to back The Whip with the furious Joe afore-
said, who tells him of the big bet he has laid. Then the
Captain acquaints Joe with the full strength of that noble
animal’s trial, and the plot to stop it from winning is
quite naturally evolved.
“Busk”: What a poor view Australia has had of
Matheson Lang ! Consider the great parts he has acted,
such as Hamlet, Romeo, Othello, Joseph Surface, Mal-
volio, David Garrick, etc. In “ The Merry Wives of
Windsor” he has been Ford and even Falstaff. His
Petruchio would be agreeable after Asche’s and Kolker’s.
Surely the old-time starring plan was best for drawing
out a man’s powers. Brook or Sullivan, on tour, would
change the bill every night; and such was the practice
of Lang in touring the West Indies and South America.
What things are “ The Third Floor Back ” and “ Pete ” to
draw forth the great powers demanded by the legitimate !
Why not give the opportunity of cojppaping Lang’s Ham-
let with H. B. Irving’s? A pretty man with no talent
might give as much satisfaction in walking through "The
Third Floor Back.” Bother the scenery! Give us two
boards and a passion, as Dumas said.
“ Stargazer ” : Miss Marie Illington, who plays the
Hon. Mrs. Beamish in “ The Whip ” at Melb. Majesty’s,
told a reporter on the day of her arrival: “ When lam
not acting, I am dressing. I took a prize offered by a
London paper for the best-dressed woman.” After that, I
was prepared to find Miss Marie Illington a mere stick
—a clothes-prop, so to speak—instead of which the lady
proved to be a remarkably good, quiet comedienne, a
smooth actress, mellowed by long experience, with
nothing objectionable about her but her clothes. She
wore the intolerable hobble skirt, more hobbled than
usual, restricting her stage stride so absurdly that
throughout the show the audience was watching for the
apparently inevitable headlong dive into ttie orchestra.
That ever-impending catastrophe quite smothered the
interest in the drama’s terrific railway smash. I hope
Miss Illington will presently forget she once took a first
prize for frocks. I never saw an actress so worn by her
clothes.
The English mail has brought news of the death in
London of William Walshe, operatic artist. He was
well known in Sydney and Melbourne many years ago,
TEMPLE HARRISON, actor
and part-author of "The
Winning Ticket ,” now being
produced at Melbourne
King's.
and was princi-
pal tenor war-
bler with the
late Mrs. Simon-
son and Emelie
Melville. H i s
fine voice was
also often heard
in the Philhar-
monic concerts
of both c ifies.
“D”: Clarke
and Meynell are
bringing out
Moiniah, the
famous solo dan-
cer | or their new
comic opera co.
A good solo dan-
cer used to be a
regular feature
of musical
shows, but lat-
terly the cult
has languished.
Australia hasn’t,
seen a genuine
female artist in
this 1i n e—by
which 1 mean
°ne whose work is
guiltless of “fake” —
for years. Moiniah was
starring at the Folies
Bergferes, Paris, when
the last mails arrived
from that city, and
previously she cre-
ated considerable
sensation at the
Palace Theatre,
London.
“H. Breath-
less”: We got a
hint, the other
day, as to where
some of these
juvetiiled ancers
come from, and
also as to the
way they come.
It was at th ■
Glebe (Sydney)
police court, where a woman was prosecuted for not
sending her little daughter to school. The lady
haughtily explained that she was having the infant in-
structed in the piano, violin, Shaksptare and step-
dancing ; and, as she found she couldn’t crowd in arith-
metic, grammar and the other frills, she just dropped
school out altogether. The magistrate said, in a harsh
voice, that it would cost her ss. or seven days, and the
astonishment of the unwise parent was boundless.
“S.S.: “The Whip” is an all-English melodrama. It
dots not at any moment acknowledge the existence of
the Commonwealth of Australia. And yet, on the first
night, Ambrose Manning, comedian, was permitted to
“localise” by dragging Willie Judkins into certain comic
reflections on Madame Tussaud’s waxworks. Ordinarily,
you have only to say “ Judkins ”in aMelbourne theatre to
provoke a roar of laughter ; but the incongruity of Man-
ning’s jape struck even a first-night audience, and pro-
voked a solemn and oppressive silence akin to that of the
tomb. As first President of the Association for Ignoring
Judkins, I wish to put on record the above gratifying
circumstance.
“ 0.K.” : Matheson Lang, before leaving Melbourne for
the West, produced himself in a verra Scotch character —
he “ entertained at lunch a few of his friends among
Scottish residents of Melbourne, including the Prime
Minister.” Lang hasn’t Asche’s good opinion of Aus-
tralians as critics. But Lang can hardly complain of the
start he got in Sydney and Melbourne. The trumpets
blew a hurricane at the approach of himself and his wife,
and if he had been a really strong dramatic actor, with
high-class plays and a striking leading lady, he would have
gone for a bit above his value anyhow. But the plays were
a novel “morality” comedy, in which he tried to
force the effect, and a mawkish melodrama that had no
novelty whatever. The Sydney mistake of opening the
season with “Pete,” and laying too much stress upon the
hlessed baby, was not repeated in Melbourne, where
“The Passing of the Third Floor Back ” got first chance.
Had Lang’s “Stranger” not been so suggestive of a
Divine Being in Holy Orders, and had Rose Musgrove.for
example, taken the part of the Slavey, there might have
been an eight weeks’ run for the morality comedy. It
has at. least one exceedingly spicy line in it.
“R. 8.”: The cabled terms on which Lina Cavallieri,
opera-bouffe prima-donna, of Paris, agreed to marry
Robert Winthrop Chanler are interesting as a sample of
the lady’s gall. Robert transferred to her all his personal
estate, worth a million dollars or so, also 20,000 dollars a
year for hairpin money. Lina’s interview with a Parisian
journalist was calmly and unconsciously funny. She said
she had had to make many sacrifices in marrying Mr.
Chanler and thus rewarding his devotion. He knew, she
said, of her stormy past, and appreciated the fact that
she had given up all her lovers. Robert Winthrop sat
there during the interview and beamed. Lina was a
Roman flower girl, and her great beauty—beauty of
feature only, for she has the mind of a phonograph and
the soul of a doll—attracted many counts. (There
are thousands of counts in Italy, because if a count has
12 sons they are all counts, and if each of these sons has
12 sons, the original count becomes a gross of counts in
two generations.) A marquis fought a count for her,
and stabbed him with his bodkin, which was just as
well, for a marquis is not so numerous in Italy as a count.
Lina’s voice production was paid for by some abundant
count or marquis, and in its way her thin mezzo is a
triumph of cultivation, for it was created from scales and
a voice that was originally only good to eat with. And
now Robert Winthrop succeeds ; and his succession will
probably be a failure. The lady who talks of self-abne-
gation with a cloistral air, because she has given up many
counts to marry one American, is too cool a proposition
for matrimony. She is a cold storage.
J. Edward Sykes, the Sydney musician with the moun-
tainous button-hole, is to have a benefit on December 16.
Sykes, besides being one of the soundest musicians in
Australia, has the sympathy that helps to make the few
really good accompanists that any country owns; and
Dolores wants to show her appreciation of J. Edward in
that capacity by warbling at the benefit. And when
Dolores wants to warble, a committee doesn’t need much
pressing to let her have her way.
Edwin Geach’s Dramatic Qo. had a week’s rest at
Winton, in Western Queensland, recently. A motor
lorry, carrying the luggage and scenery from Longreach,
broke down on the way, and when it was repaired rain
set in, and the buzz-cart had to wait for some days till
the black soil had dried up. Meanwhile, the villain
forgot his wickedness, and the heroine neglected her
che-ild, and the comic relief behaved like a ratibnal
being, and the manager made unprintable remarks, while
the ticket office was an aching void.
THE “STOCK” ACTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His name is Monty Banagher.
You meet him at the whisky joint.
When no good fellow leads him there
He loiters sadly on the Point,
With one eye roaming near and far,
And one fixed firmly on the bar.
He wears a suit of rusty black,
A wide-rimmed hat of rakish shape,
A cape-like cloak, thrown grandly back,
And boots from which his feet escape.
Sometimes he gets a shave on tick.
At sniping lunch he’s neat and quick.
His hair is long, his brow severe.
He is an actor, well I know,
For oft, in confidence and beer,
The gentleman has told me so.
“ I am,” exclaims the stately mime,
“ The great stock actor of me time.”
It is quite true, although his friends
Of Monty often make a mock ;
The great “ stock ” actor’s talent ends
Where it begins—portraying stock.
In fact, doe 3 he, at Christmas time,
Enact the cow in pantomime !
victoria.
SNELL.


By Special
Appointment
ĥ
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
THE CATERER. Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
Wedding: Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, 'and make an appointment, wheD
our Manager will call and give all details.
What’s the time ? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
ħ
h
ĥ
Just the Thing for the Holidays! TH
WITH ONE OF THE “STANDA”
DAYLIGHT DEVELOPING TANKS
You Can Develop at any Time. Invaluable when Camping.
STOCKED IN ALL SIZES and PRICES, FOR FILMS or PLATES.
Give us a call, and we will give you a practical demonstration that will at on: e
convince you that our TANKS are the Finest on the Market.
With a ROLL FILM TANK the WHOLE PROCESS OF PHOTOGRAPHY
can be SUCCESSFULLY CARRIED OUT IN BROAD DAYLIGHT.
Daylight Developing Tanks
for PLATES or FLAT FILMS.
From 6/- UPWARDS.
Send for
our Fully
Illustrated
Catalogue,
over 400
Pages.
Daylight Developing Tanks
for ROLL FILMS.
From 21/- UPWARDS.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
Photographic
Merchants,
SYDNEY—3B6 George Street (near G.P.0.).
MELBOURNE—266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—93-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE —Gawler Place.
SOCIETY
DANGER!
“ Gripes! Guess I've struck an armored cruiser.”
The most unconsciously-humorous man in
Melbourne is a converted psalm-smiter who lately
referred to Sam Mauger as a “wowser.” The
unconscious humorist, it seems, was formerly a
devoted Calathumpian with only one failure. He
used to buy a Melbourne Gup ticket in Tatt.’s
every year. A few years ago his ticket drew first
prize, and with £6OOO coming to him he promptly
proposed to give £5OO to the church in which he
was a shining light. But the other elders would
have none of it. They railed against his sinful
gamble and bade him return his prize. He sug-
gested that they would like the whole lot for the
church. They threw up their hands and said :
“Send it all back.” Finding that he couldn’t
save his soul without relinquishing the £6OOO, he
retired from his pew and became an inveterate
foe to wowserism in all its bearings. This shows
that even Calathumpian principles are amenable
to financial argument. •
REPARTEE.
H E: Providence neglected to endow woman with a sense of the ridiculous .”
S HE: “ Naturally—knowing she would have to live with man.”
Following the example of the brave
Maorilander who cured himself of nervous dys-
pepsia by fasting for 52 days, a courageous dairy
farmer of Goulburn (N.S.W.) lately threw down
the plate of battle and defied his waistcoat for
42 days. Just to remind it that it was not ex-
pected to retire from business altogether, he
allowed it three cups of coffee daily, with a little
milk and sugar. For the first six days, Waist-
coat called him a Socialist, and threatened to
leave the country; but on the seventh day it
recognised it had a hero to deal with, and sub-
mitted so gracefully that five foodless and almost
driukless weeks went by in peace and harmony.
At the end of the test, the waistcoat-conqueror,
who had kept on doing his work as usual, found
he had lost 51b. and his indigestion. He now
only approaches the dining-table once every 24
hours ; also, he has sworn off intoxicating meat,
and wouldn’t step across the road to have a chop
with Judkins if that great reformer asked him
on his knees. Fearful possibilities now loom up
through the political fog. Within a year or so,
wild-eyed and inaccurate zealots will probably be
denouncing the Cursed Steak, and telling spell-
bound audiences how they witnessed the horri-
ble spectacle of 39 meat-gorged infants reeling
out of one of the most brilliantly-lighted but-
chers’ shops in Sydney.
* * * *
“0.K.”: If Australia’s defence system
is to be preserved from superfluous frill and
finery, it needs a clause in the Act to prohibit
officahs from masquerading in scarlet and gilt
buttons at places of public enter-
tainment. At Her Majesty’s
(Melb.)the other night a hundred
or so militaires were gathered in
dazzling array in the dress circle,
and, presumably, other thin red
lines of superior warriors were in
the stalls. The lieutenants, cap-
tains and majahs were not all so
glaring as Solomon in all his
glory. Some of them had blue
or buff jackets, but gilt buttons
were common to all, save two of
three (generals and commanders-
in-chief, perhaps) who wore
medals on their black coats to
prevent their being mistaken for
beastly civilians. Why this
popinjay demonstration ? Had
the gallant fellows heard that
“ The Whip ” —the melodrama
they were patronising—makes a
display of hunting costumes, and
were they bent on showing the
world that officahs in uniform
are fit to adorn the stage ?
The effect, really, was most distracting. One
couldn’t fix one’s gaze upon the far-off scarlet
supers whilst these fine fellows were asserting
their splendid presence in the foreground. Why
did they do it—and do they do it frequently ?
* * * *
The incredible has happened, and a land
shindykit has been formed in Sydney which
doesn’t aim at making a profit. It happened this
way. Archbishop Wright has refused to live
at Bishops-court, Randwick, alleging that it is
too far from the city, so churchmen have decided to
purchase the old home of T. S. Mort, at Darling
Point. This, however, could not be done until
Bishops-court had been melted down into cash.
So a syndicate was formed to purchase the pro-
perty, with the object of allowing the Arch-
bishop to get the manger he wants without having
to pawn his crook and the collection plate.
At latest advices, the 9-ton yawl Pandora,
in which Captains Blyth and Arapakis propose
sailing round the globe, was in Maoriland waters,
and had already been given a taste of the dis-
respect which old-man Neptune has for freak
craft in that vicinity. Bad luck has befallen
nearly every one of them after reaching the
country where the single crazy thing one can be
sure to meet afloat is a loan. Voss, in the Tilikum,
was about the only man that dodged the
curse of the Maoriland sea. The Kia Ora,
which was constructed at Auckland
for the round-the-world trip, was
heaved ashore on the East Coast after
a heated argument with a gale, and
Buckeridge and Isaac (the crew) were
chased right up the beach by D.
Jones. That cured Isaac; but Bucker-
idge patched up his craft, collected
another crew of one, and sailed into
the Sea of Mystery. One day, long
afterwards, the Kia Ora crept slowly
into Waitemata harbor, with the soli-
tary crew just sufficiently alive to
tell how Buckeridge had injured
himself at sea, and had died and been
buried there. The next attempt was
made by Felix Tanner, who built
a miniature Ark on the plans laid
down by the Original Shipbuilder. He
sailed out of New Plymouth ; but was
rescued soon afterwards and presented
to the ■ Society that deals with the
Apparently Drowned. Felix gave up
constructing Arks, and took a hand at
constructing a gallows; but he had bad
luck at that, too. He put a patent
frame on the market; but, owing to lack
of enterprise, no hangman would buy it.
There is a lot of conservatism about
hangmen, who are among the most con-
sistent supporters the Right-Thinking
party and the Property Defence League
possess.
The mysterious disappearance of a gentle-
man named Stoltz, occupied the attention of the
Bankruptcy Court in Sydney recently, and re-
vealed a case lull of difficulties. Stoltz, sometime
in June, went out in a boat and never came back.
The day he went away was unusually fine, hardly
a ripple on the water. The boat in which he
paddled out from Woolloomooloo Bay was subse-
quently found afloat off Wollongong, on the
south coast, 48 miles from where Stoltz started
his journey. In it were found Stoltz’s macintosh,
pipe and tobacco pouch, but no sign of Stoltz.
rpiT i
The people who were anxious to see hull and the
color of his cash presumed that he had Jett the
State and was staying away to avoid the un-
pleasantness of parting up. This supposition was
given some color by the fact that, shortly before
he went boating, he had several trunks painted up,
renovated and removed from his chambers. An
other witness swore that Stoltz had told him he
intended shortly to go to Germany, and had not
added any information as to how long he intended
to stay. Nobody brought out any suggestion as
to how Stoltz had got out of the boat and escaped,
and, as the man had loft his macintosh, pipe and
pouch behind him, there seems to be more than a
possibility that Stoltz has not bolted from L.S
creditor friends, but retired to his long home.
Even if he were going to Germany, he would
probably have taken his pipe and pouch with
him. A man would want to smoke on the way to
Germany, while on the track to Abraham's
bosom smoking is severely discouraged.
Complete disappearance alive is a fine art in
which but few people attain any particular pro-
ficiency. When the Devonshire-street (Sydney)
Cemetery was removed, there were several cases
in which there was more than a suggestion that
the gentleman whose name was on the tombstone
had not been buried there. In one instance a fine
leaden coffin, in a vault, had been plundered for
the value of the lead, and the gentleman who had
done the burglary had left a note to the effect
that, when he broke in, he could find no trace of
the original inhabitant, and that, in his humble
opinion, “ the bloke had done a bunk and never
been buried at all.” Another coffin, which was m
a good state of preservation, was found to be
unusually heavy, and was smashed by being
bumped on the floor. Then it was discovered
to have been occupied by a bag of sand which
turned the scale at 12 stone, the weight of
a well-set-up man. The removers had doubts
about the genuineness of that funeral. Another
disappearance worried the police some time back.
The man had worked in an office for many years.
One afternoon a lady floated in and threw a
smile. The man—a Scotsman —bounded up,
hugged the lady three times, reached his hat and
blew out. He never came back, and when they
came to sort things out it was discovered that he
had forgotten to leave about £lBO of the office s
cash. Of course, it was quite inadvertent, as the
girl was pretty enough to make any man forget a
trifle like that. But where he went to, or who
the lady was, the police never found out. It was
a most complete and artistic disappearance.
* ■* * *
From The Bulletin’s Victorian railway-
accident reporter :
The line between Clunes and Talbot is one of the
safest to travel on in the State. This isn’t because they
don’t have accidents there, but because they have them
so often that the wreckage now knows exactly how to
pile itself so as to escape doing murder or serious bodily
harm. No one ever suffers more than a scratch, although
trains get broken up wholesale. A while ago, a whole
outfit fell over a bridge into a canyon filled with rushing
Judkins ale, and no passenger even got tickled, although
the smash was so complete that farmers miles down the
creek found carriage doors and windows mixed up with
their crops next day. Since then trains have been leaving
the rails through force of habit about eight times a
month, and the fact isn’t even thought worth mentioning.
On Monday of last week a frolicsome “ mixed ” turned
itself and a quarter of a mile of permanent way
into hash inside half a minute, but delivered the
goods (in the shape of about 40 passengers) so
safely that the latter thought it another of Tait’s little
jokes, and dug each other in the ribs and wondered what
the great man would be up to next. I went out to have a
look at the wreck. As a wreck, it was worth going to
THE FORTUNE OF WAR.
IT: “ Ah, Maisie, Til never forgive you for re-
fusing me seven years ago.”
HER: “ But you soon married another woman.”
IT: “Yes; that’s why.”
see. The landscape was spread with wheels and wrecked
few. An old Hobson's Bay car rested smugly beneath a
loaded truck over by the fence (this old car was full of
p asser) „, ers a t the time of the accident), and a big track
j a y r jght out in an adjoining paddock. One car sat
erect on end, its buffers lifted supplicatingly to the
heavens, the whole thing seemingly held in its prayerful
position by a length of twisted rail; and a horde of dazed
SK!' t“.‘i?no’? 0 |:3 , .15«
p eter# Twisted iron, pulverised wood and scattered
goods lay all over the landscape, whilst the language of
gome of those concerned gave a pleasing touch of color
to the scene.
PRO PATRIA EDERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is sweet and glorious to dine for one’s country.—
Horace (amended).
George Reid, at luncheon, in a stirring speech, proposed
“ Tlie Royal Navy.”— Commonkind of cable nowadays.
“ George Reid, at luncheon, in a strring speech,
Proposed the Royal Navy.”
Brethren, your hearing do I now beseech
The while I sing- a song your hearts to reach—
A Song of Grub and Gravy !
A man like a puncheon
Went out to a luncheon,
He'd the gift o’ the gab, and effront’ry ;
There was no one more able,
At bar or at table,
To feed, or be fee’d, for his country.
lie could joke like Joe Miller ;
His smile was a “killer” ;
Ilis buttonhole bore an azalea ;
He was gay, debonair,
And he sat in his chair
Determined to dine for Australia.
At a sup and a swoop
He disposed of the soup,
And a couple of glasses of Chablis ;
Hors d'am tires came after—
The smiles turned to laughter,
And talk became brisk and more bubbly.
A sole a la Russe
Vanished next, without fuss ;
Then there followed a fillet of turbot,
With oysters and soy ;
And he noted with joy
That the next course was lamb, a la Serb, hot.
A salmi of pheasant
He tried, was so pleasant
He tackled another big plateful !...
“ This is beautiful claret,”
He said—“ Do not spare it,
D.-ar Duke!” “Ya-as,” the Duke drawled;
“ de-late-ful!”
Our hero, so knightly,
By this, was grown sprightly,
All marvelled to note his abandon.
He would cry, “ Hence vvith grief 1
Bring me sirloin of beef,
And a magnum of Moet and Chandon ! ”
With cream and plum tart,
And asperges d la carte
(In England ’tis best in September),
Heroic G. Reid
Closed a notable feed,
With vintage port—dry as an ember.
With coffee and brandy,
And cigarettes handy,
And trophies of pears, pines and peaches,
He sat in his chair
Smiling, gay, debonair.
Prepared for the toasts and the speeches.
Australia, advance !
Gaze upon the expanse
Of shirt-front the kindly Fates lend you
To buckler your coasts ;
Then, drink deep in your toasts—
The Man Who Will Dine to Defend You!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


—^—.
<
10,000,000
Ftabletsof
light Soap are
sold every week;'
this is the high-
est possible proof
that Sunljght
Soap comes up
to expecta-
tions.
ħ
/
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NO. ST.
You Will Be Surprised
How much better you feel if your stomach is in
good condition. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
will improve your digestion at once. Price 2s. 6d.*
7
M
You Can’t Feel Cool
in Summer
unless your clothes are appropriate to the season, and in
this connection one of the smartest of Summer Suits is
our Two-Garment Herring-bone Weave Suits. We piake
them specially light, no linings to coats—they wash well-
nothing better or safer to wear on a hot nay.
The Coat is UNLINED for coolness, and with fairly
open roll collar, so that it can be buttoned if required.
Price 251-
A SUPERIOR QUALITY with plain shades favored in light
and dark greys. Coat has longer opening in collar
—one button, and coat slightly square at corners.
30/
Give Chest and Waist Measurement when ordering
by post, and add 1/- postage.
New Men’s Fashions Handbook almost ready. Write for a copy.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney has been filled with a grey haze ;
for every Dutch man-o’-warsman goes round town
with a cigar in his face, and thus knocks flat the
stage idea that every Van Dam has a vast pipe
curling down to his chin. But this is the Dutch
East Indian fleet that is in Australian waters;
and in the Dutch Indies cigar-tobacco costs less
than cabbage, and is a heap more plentiful. Java
and Borneo grow the bulk of the “filling’ ; and
Sumatra supplies the wrapping leaf. At Dobo,
on the way north, the Australian gets his first
taste of cheap tobacco. If he wants stuff for his
pipe he will probably have to buy English brands
and pay for them ; but a pocketful of cigarettes
can be had for a guelder and a half (2s. 6d.). He
will have to wait till he reaches Java to get cigars
thrown at him ; once there, he can buy them for
anything down to three cents, which is something
a shade over a ha’penny. But the Dutchman in
the East Indies doesn’t buy by ones and twos.
He gets in a thousand at a time, and the place
where he doesn’t smoke them hasn’t yet been
invented.
“The Religious Editor”: To be thor-
oughly efficient, a verger needs to be a swift and
silent dog-ejector. Wandering dogs are
always sneaking into church, and the
congregation has never yet been col-
lected that can listen attentively and
retain a reverent demeanor whilst
an over-awed cur is being hunted
and prodded through the sacred
edifice. The best dog-ejecting
verger I have ever seen at work
is employed at the church of the
Rev. Asbestos Mac Fireproof,
opposite my last place of abode.
He is a tall, grim, deliberate
man, with long arms and hands
like the claws of a grab dredge,
and he can gather up the most
degraded beast by the scruff of
its neck and bear it down the
aisle as easily as the ordinary
churchwarden carries a pile of
hymnbooks. It is hisinvariable
custom to take his handful of
wandering sin to the porch,
and, placing it on the top step
like a football, give it one hearty
kick to impress on whatever ser-
ves it for a mind that it is
not to enter there again. The
sin lets out a satisfying lost-
soul yelp, and, with its bruised
tail between its legs, flies like a
hairy arrow down the street.
Once a dog has been kicked out
of the church of the Rev. A.
Mac Fireproof, it never returns.
I have seen that verger, in his
solemn, professional way, suc-
cessfully kick out all sizes in
dogs, except the mastiff. I am
now engaged trying to win the
confidence and esteem of a vagrant
brute, about as big as a panther,
with the deliberate intention of getting
it to follow me in some night, when the
place is full, just to see if the champion will be
equal to the job. If you read, later on, of a
verger being eaten alive in church, whilst the
choir was singing “ O Let Us Be Joyful! ” you
will know that the dog won.
* * * *
The Council of Melb. University invites
applications from qualified gentlemen for the new
position of Professor of English (language and
literature), and specifies that photographs of
applicants must accompany applications. The
Rev. E. Sugden opposed this. “It looks like
a beauty competition,” he said ; but he was over-
ruled. After all, it may not be a beautiful Pro-
fessor that the council is after ; they may desire
to have the new Professor known as “ Plain
English.”
How do the mighty slump as soon as death
has called for them and carried away their bones !
No one is more profoundly respectful to a live
u . than Tlenrv W Lucy, but already he
IpSM'in" esV Hk.ald about one very
r6 Thf’ abounding (rood nnture and personal geniality of
t-h* lot-p Kinir before and subsequent to nis acce&siun.
Tn two cvies'hfs desire to bestow high dign.ties on Ins
social position and personal achievements they were not
exactly the class from which the Sovereign m.ght beex-
nected to select his most intimate companions. . . . King
George holds no communication with any member of the
littleSnner court that a year ago sunned itself in the
beaming presence of King Edward. . . There ,s exceeding
dolor in certain quarters where royalty was wont to be
welcomed at boundless feasts, with bouts of bridge to
follow. ;
The date was early in August, do it took
Edward VII. just three months to slide down
from his elevation as the world’s greatest states-
man to the status of an easy-going, banqueting,
mentally-down-at-heel potentate who surrounded
himself with low favorites whom his own Jrnme
Minister wouldn’t tolerate— somebody in the cate-
gory of James 111. of Scotland, or Edward 11. of
England, or perhaps Louis XI. of France, the
man who took counsel with his barber on affairs
of State, though the bulging intellect of Olivpr
the Devil probably justified his position. Ine
ink is scarcely dry yet on the book that the late
King’s dog wrote about him, and already that
faithful and blotted animal would hardly recog-
nise his master’s description.
OF TWO
EVILS.
“ What on earth
did he marry her
for if he is going for a
divorce already? ”
“ Oh, I suppose he didn't want to be sued for
breach of promise."
There’s much gnashing of buck-fceeth and
wailing of “Whaffor?” in the China camps
around Fremantle (W.A.), and the Chow-grown
lettuce is for the moment a drug in the market.
Health-Officer Dr. Paget, with the Mayor, Town
Clerk and a councillor as a bodyguard, marched
into the vegetable area, and great is the smell of
the doctor’s report. Water is obtained by making
pot-holes two or three feet deep, and many of
these “ wells ” were discovered by the seekers
after light. The doctor said that they were
nothing less than fever-beds, swarming with
typhoid germs—and in these the Celestials rinse
their vegetables. Said the doctor : “That water
no good, John.’’ Said the Chow : WAter all
li’ ” —and grabbed a handful of the slime and
swallowed it. “All li’—you tly.” Ihe com-
mittee turned blue. Another Pong said he washed
his vegetables in a barrel, and pointed it out. Ihe
“ water ” also was thick, and the doctor opined it
was davs old. Said the doctor : “ Been there too
long. Too dirt}', John. Let it out.” Said the
Chow : “ Not dirty—l pullum out plug at bottom
each morning and fillum up again. You see me let
it out.” The heathen in his blindness couldn’t find
a plug. He smiled blandly and asked the visitors
to have some fruit.
* * * *
Another aristocrat in trouble :
T?LDERLY impoverished titled Nobleman, belonging
-li to a most distinguished family in Europe, would
adopt a Boy of wealthy parents, to take his name and
title (not necessarily out of custody of parents), for
consideration of £lOOO for adoption. For further
particulars, apply BONA-FIDE, 50, Herald Office.
What’s in a name? Well, £lOOO, this man evi-
dently reckons. *
CONSOLATION.
METHODIST PARSON: “Ah, brother, it's sad to see such a small congregation!"
BROTHER S PADGER: “ Yes, but, thank the Lord, the Presbyterian one is smaller !”
G. B. Nicholls, one of the three apostles
who said he saw a flock of small boys reeling
drunk from “ one of the most brilliantly lighted
hotels in Sydney,” and whose present special job
is to picture (1) the horrors of Derrink, and (2)
the blessings of No License in Maori Lind for the
encouragement of N. S. Wales, contributing
articles to the Otago Daily Times (M.L.). Jins
is from one of the latest: —
One dav was spent in Woolloomooloo, where over 5000
people are packed as closely as herrings in a space 400yds.
lon«- and 200 wide. Here children are to be seen pla.y-
iixAn the narrow street right alongside the public-house
door, about which men and women in all stages of degra-
dation, and all alike ready to pour out tirades of hlthv
language upon the children’s heads if they are annoyed
in the slightest degree. As usually they are very easily
annoyed, the tirades are frequent. .. . The crowd of
vicious, weedy-looking, filthy-nnnded and filthy-tongued
gaol-birds that faced us when we held our open-air meet-
ing in this district is the natural and inevitable outcome
of'life under such conditions. Of this crowd of several
hundred, some 50 or 60 were fighting drunk.
A dark shadow of doubt fell on Nicholls when he
refused to specify the “ brilliantly-lighted hotel ;
and the question now arises, “If Nicholls gives
Maoriland such outrageous guff as the foregoing
about Australia, what reliance can be placed on
what he tells Australia about the state of things
in Maoriland?”
* * * *
“ Sr’s ” dreadful tale of Show-time :
Father is an M.P., and when ma’s country relations
came to town she proudly explained that father cou d
show them everything, including Tait’s favorite wreck-
ages the Zoo, Pentridge and the draughts in Parliament
House. After covering that list, a desire was expressed
to have a look over a warship then in the bay. Accord-
ingly, father wrote to the Defence authorities asking
permission for himself and party to inspect the vessel,
and received an answer stating that the desired permis-
sion was granted, and that the ship’s officers were being
notified. On the day of the visit father was called away
to attend to a doubtful supporter, and we decided to
take the department’s letter and go without him. On
arrival at the pier a steam launch was waiting.
Uncle presented the letter, and aunt and the
kids were courteously handed aboard. As we ranged
alongside the vessel a bugle blared, and, climbing up the
«-an<?way, we found half the crew mustered in drill order.
A gold-braided agent met us, looked at the Defence de-
partment’s introduction, then at aunt and the kids, and
finally at the masthead flag. Meanwhile uncle and all of
us inspected the squad. Uncle seemed vexed when they
wouldn’t shake hands with him, and refused even to
answer when he asked, “Ow’d some ev yous chaps like
er job harvestin’?” After being shown over the ship, we
were offered biscuits and wine. Uncle encored the wine,
and having wiped his whiskers loudly, started to explain
the accident of our visit. In the middle of the explana-
tion an astonished officer showed me the departments
letter which stated that “ a Parliamentary party ’ would
attend, and the ship’s officers had made arrangements
for the reception of about a dozen large-sized M s.P. We
left that officer three points off his mental course, ana
when we slipped down the gangway there wasn t even a
bos’n’s whistle to say good-bye. The dead finish was at
the boat-staging ashore, where aunt offered a tip to the
lieutenant or major-domo in charge of the launch. I
could see him stamping on his hat in the stern-sheets all
the way back to the ship.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
THE TWO LOYALISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lieutenant Pieren, of the Koningin Regentes,
talking about the war between the Dutch t " ie
Achinese, which has been going on for neatly ya■ •
“The Achinese are very good fighters, sats the
tenant. “The women fight, too. They are very man-
like women. They will not give in.” —Daily paper.
’Twixt our Mrs. Billo and their Mrs. Achin
There is little to choose when the ructions begin.
For though A.’s in the Indies and B. may be found
In a dusty back street when the “demon” calls round ,
Or Dutchmen come marching wild husbands to tame,
A.’s methods and B.’s are exactly the same.
’Twixt a stronghold well-guarded, a front door well
barred,
A big fight in the forest, a “ scrap ” in the yard,
A crumpled-up Dutchman, a badly-mauled “ D,
The difference, if any, is one of degree.
The Indian jungles, the hack lanes of ’Loo,
Are just teeming with hearts that are faithful and true ;
Therefore, down goes the Dutchman, and down goes the
“ D f
Demonstrating that A is the equal of B.
NEW HOLLAND.
HENDRIE VAN MURPHY.
WHEN HOPES RAN HIGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When hopes ran high the world was young ;
We thought that we would never die,
And glorious songs were proudly sung
In those grand days when hopes ran high.
When hopes ran high the world was true ;
We thought that friends could never lie.
There have been bitter truths for you,
And me, since days when hopes ran high.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
AT THE FOUNTAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Brunswick branch of the A.N.A. has decided to
celebrate its 25th anniversary by presenting a drinking
fountain to the citizens of Brunswick.—AßGUS.
Councillor Barnet intimated, at the St. Kilda Council
meeting last evening, that a retired merchant had pro-
mised to erect on the foreshore a handsome fountain—
Same paper.
Have a sup?
Press the knob !
See a sparkling quencher lob
In the cup 1
Come on, now !
One with me?
Take another—two or three !
Cool your brow !
Drink up, lad ;
Good and strong,
Yan Yean helps your health along
Beer is bad !
Filtered? No!
Who’s afraid?
Live and let live—Nature made
Germs to grow.
Is it hot? -
Sanely viewed,
Fountains for the multitude
Touch the spot.
Yes, I think
When they gush
Sales of googly, swank and lush
Soon will shrink.
Water's here.
Drink again !
Hist! Some rude, coarse citizen :
“ Gimme beer ! ”
Water's fine !
Fountain sorts
Also ; yet the dingbat snorts :
“ Beer in mine ! ”
“ Mine’s a beer! ”
What a shame
When [it’s liquid, just the same]
Water’s here !
Water's here —
Water's free !
Yet some fellers wantonly
Howl for beer !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


The Cabinet also decided to bring In a
Bill revising the fares charged by the
Melbourne Tramway Company. The
Premier said that Parliament had re-
tained the power to revise the fares, and
the fact that the rales were,specified In
the Act clearly showed that the duty
was laid upon Parliament to exercise
powers of revision when necessary.
Artist vtjed ifjaf wen'T'to a,n
[Key A\o\ -ftc fV?o«s <to*J SueaX, M victory.
SOME LINES
OTHER LINE'S
3*
Kcv^ca.
%««* Vie •-‘ *'* **/ ! %*■
only been i« fbree. I°^
years.
•^ £ CWs V* We
** yrilfy UnjAilZir
;r- £%„
\
\
| A repetition of the Joke played upon
[the Customs officers by the Chinese
crew of the E. and A. liner Empire on
her previous visit to Melbourne took
place yesterday. Observing the launch
in their wake, the Chinese crew of the
Empire, amid much evident mirth, cast
[overboard a number of parcels, and glee-
fully watched the Customs launch stop to
recover them. WhiletheCustomsofficials
felt certain that the parcels, as on the
previous occasion, contained nothing but
rice-scrapings, they decided not to take
any chances. The parcels were accord-'
ingly taken from the water and ex-
amined for traces of contraband ; but, as
was suspected, they contained nothing
but dirty rice.
Y «i in reference to the succession of
accidents of various kinds,” say
the Commissioners, “which have
occurred at various places through-
out the State of late, these un-
dents are not attributable to failure
to provide efficient and sufficient
officers and employees, and safe
equipment and lines of way.”
IreMier Murray: —To do you attribute, "se.
1 Succession of f "
WillieWacH - Providence?
: ' Partly Providence Xcpbxtl y General
Efficiency. ”
TV>f decided do dro
cj-
■»£
The Ministry has decided to advise
the Governor In Connell to return to 1
the President of the Legislative Coun-
cil (Mr. J. M. Davies) his nomination
lof Mr. J. M. Pitts, at present the
assistant clerk, for appointment to
I succeed Mr. Oeorge Jenkins as Clerk
of Parliaments. The dovprnor in
Council will probably ask the Presi-
sldent to sobaait another nomination,
on account of the fact that Mr. Pitts
is already nearly three year* pant
the retiring ago.
Cov-CvwicWl (To j K e>T . - lsm,
l&*> Vit”ovcr
tnc ©aas -
A MELBOURNE MEDLEY.


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
4
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
“ CLEMENT-BAYARD ” MOTOR CARS.
of the best types of cars to reach this
market, and one suitable for Australian
conditions, is the 12/18 h.p.; ‘ Clement*
Bayard,’” writes the Sydney Daily Telegraph,
after seeing the 1911 models.
Again: “Clement-Bayard engines enjoy a
reputation for reliability and noiselessness.”
“ Clement-Bayards ” are one of the three
crack cars of France—the leading country for
cars. -x
They are one of the most costly cars in
Europe— yet we are selling them in Sydney at
25 per cent, lower than .other first-class cars.
“ Clement-Ba ,T ard ” Cars are made by A.
t :
Clement, the'designer of the “ Clement-Talbot ” and the “Clement-Bayard” Cars, in his great works at
Levallois, Paris ; where 3000 men are constantly employed. He is recognised as one of the leading, if not the
leading. Motor Engineers of Europe, and all his latest triumphs appear in the 1911 Model Cars just to hand.
When the British Government wanted huge motors for the three great war dirigibles—now building—
they went to the “Clement-Bayard ” works for them. When a nation’s very existence might depend on a
Motor, Reliability must be ensured, and that is the characteristic of “ Clement-Bayards.”
In addition to this, they are famed for great strength and power to stand up against hard, continuous
wear, and yet they are extremely light on tyres and naphtha.
CALL, and allow us to explain the reason why Our Prices for Cars generally—Commercial Vehicles and
High-wheel Buggies—will be found to be 25 per cent, lower than the usudl Sydney quotations.
8-14 h.p. 4-cylinder, with Double Phaeton Side-entrance body, with Detachable Back, £275.
1911 Model, 12-18 h.p., 4-oylinder, Double Phaeton Side-entrance body, and every latest improve-
ment and extra high clearance, £450. THIS IS AN IDEAL CAR.
Office:
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jeweller}'
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney, Sole Agents.
Garage : STANTON COOK, LTD.,
Motor and Electrical
Engineers,
6, 8 8 23 Underwood St., off 37 Pitt St.
Victorian Agents: JAS. A. MUNRO & CO., Elizabeth, Therry & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE LEAKAGE.
1ST LYDY: “ Thought yer said yer could keep a
secret?”
2ND LYDY: “So I can. But them. I told it to
couldn’t.”
“Tiger Snake” : As a belated contribu-
•tion to the native-bear endurance controversy, I
have to record the koala’s capability in another
direction. Bear was never intended by Nature to
do long-distance travelling ; nevertheless, one
will be met occasionally negotiating the big plains.
I met one, away back in 1884, between Conda-
mine Plains and St. Ronans. There was no
timber for five miles either side. The following
day, returning by the same track, I saw the bear
again. He had established himself on a windmill,
only a short distance from where I first discovered
him. He was comfortably perched on the ribs of
■the wheel and was revolving gaily, and seemingly
taking pleasure in the motion. On July 16, 1904,
I was on the same road once more. Imagine my
astonishment, on nearing the same old mill, to
-see, to all outward appearance, the same old
bear, in the same old place, still flying around
with the wheel He was not, however, enjoying
the sensation so much as he had done 20 years
previously, for, at every turn of the wheel, he
gave a plaintive cry which suggested that his
nervous system had been undermined through
scarcity of food and 20 years’ strenubusness in
■holding his position. That was six years ago.
Probably he is there yet.
THE DEPTH OF WOE.
BEEEAVED HUSBAND (chokingly): “ Yairs, she waz a good all-round woman. I'd—er—sooner —
sooner—lost ’ARE me milkers than ’ er." (Burst of grief from assembly.)
“Awood”: In Sydney, I was told, I
would find a camp of real Australian black brother
at La Perouse. Visions of roasted ’possum and
’guana or a corroboree made me part with th e
tram fare to that place. Before going out I tried
to buy a book to tell me something about the
black man. I struck one entitled “ Boswell’s Life
of Johnson,” but it did not seem to meet the case at
all; Boswell was no sport. So I went out un-
armed. The first brother I met was middle-aged,
much bewhiskered, and carried a dilapidated
bunch of wild flowers. He looked tame, so I
made signs that I wished to hold converse with
him. He came at me with: “Good-day, matey,
Wanter buy a buneher flowers fer yer tart?” I
was counted out. When I came to, and wouldn’t
buy the flowers, he produced a boomerang that
looked as if it hah ■ -’ri made at a sawmill, and in-
vited me to have a throw. I had much pleasure
in accepting, and told him to look out it didn’t
hit him when it came back. I threw it about
20yds. and managed to hit the ground. The
boomerang broke in two. Black brother looked
concerned, and intimated that “two bob” would
square it. 1 gave him the “ two bob ” and caught
the next tram back to town. I related my ex-
perience to a friend, and, strange to say, he had
had a similar experience. His boomerang also
broke and cost him two bob. Now I wonder
what black brother sticks it together with.
“Leo Lear”: Who’s missing from the
Abo. list? One of the gang has turned up in
British East Africa, where he has been
shooting tall game. In a published
account of his adventures he casually
remarks that, after firing a shot into a
patch of scrub, 15,000 tail of animal
rose from the interior of the locality
and passed him at a gallop—gnu, topi,
kongoni, zebra, wart-hog, giraffe, jim-
jams and other beasts of prey “in an
unbroken column, solid as a charging
squadron.” The hunter also pirated a
well-known Australian character, and
let him loose in East Africa, under the
name of dingonec, thus giving color
to my suspicion as to his (the hunter’s)
land of origin. The dingonec is de-
scribed as “ a cross between a sea-ser-
pent, a leopard and a whale; 15ft.
long; head as big as that of a lioness,
with two long white fangs; back
scaled like an armadillo; marked like
a leopard ; a broad fin-tail; and feet as
wide as a hippo’s, but clawed like a
reptile’s.” The name of the writer is
given as E. B. Bronson, but the flavor of bush
hospitality about his statements makes me sus-
picious.
* * * *
“ W.C.M.”: The imported rabbit and fox
curses are expensive enough in a direct sense,
while the bill which they run up indirectly is
almost equally serious. Consider, for instance,
the invoice for increased insect pests. The
western Riverina, Lower Darling, western Dar-
ling and all the districts out west (N.8.W.) are
invaded by caterpillars, which are turning a pros-
pective good season into a mighty poor one. So
far as I have seen, there are very few insect-eat-
ing birds, the natural enemies of these caterpillars,
to be found out here now. The poison laid for
the rabbit has helped to kill off the insectivorous
fowl. Then the fox has been a great enemy,
especially to the small ground-larks' and what is
known as the saltbush canary, eating the eggs
and the young birds. The wild ducks are rapidly
decreasing from similar causes. The only effective
method of dealing with the rabbit is closer settle-
ment, hurried on by a heavy land-tax. Plough-
ing and digging out the burrows is really the
only method to destroy bunny effectively. The
fox can be easily dealt with, as yet, by shooting
or trapping ; but he is on the increase, especially
as most of the Pastures Protection Boards have,
with great lack of wisdom, removed the bonus
placed on the scalp of the fox, on the plea that
he is effective in destroying the rabbit. This
bug-kill-bug policy merely leads to the survival of
the worst bug.
“ Werrimee ” : For indolent habits and
downright laziness the Outback hut-keeper ranks
second only to a Domain dosser. He has no
lights to trim, no sheep to mind, only a hut to
look after—and that is about the quietest and
least troublesome thing a man can be set to look
after. It is such a tame, silent, monotonous
charge that only a lazy man would take it in
hand. The salary is
not munificent, though
quite commensurate
with the labor in-
volved. Thehutstands
in a neighborhood
where it is occasion-
ally necessary; it may
be connected with an
expensive shearing
shed, or it may be a
dummy selection, or
one taken over .by a
squatter. Anyhow, if
travellers pass that
way, there is some
danger in leaving it
without a caretaker.
Of course, there may
be cattle or horses
or sheep in the pad-
dock adjoining, but
these require no at-
tention. The hut-
keeper may walk
round the fence once
a week if he feels in
want of exercise. The
only time he has to
put on a little steam
is when the boss
calls, which isn’t very
often, unless the hut is
on the town road. The
caller wants lunch,
and his horses have
to be taken out and
put in again when
they have had a spell.
This unwonted exer-
tion exhausts the
caretaker for an hour
or two, and he
stretches out on his
bunk and smokes,
feeling the satisfac-
tion of a man who
has done his duty.
He spends much
time on that bunk. On hot days and hot nights
he drags the mattress out on to the verandah, or
on the grass behind the shaded part of the build-
ing. When he thus sleeps outside he gets up
early, for the morning sun burns him out. He
has a collection of old books, and keeps up a read-
ing supply by swapping with travellers. He has
cards, too, which while away an hour or
two when a player drops in. Apart from the
books, his existence is about on a par with
that of the aboriginal, only the aboriginal has to
bestir himself a lot more in pursuit of a nimble
dinner.
•* * » *
The dangerous end of a mule is supposed
to be at the rear, but a stockman of the Mutooroo
Pastoral Co. (IS.A.) is in hospital at Adelaide
through taking that for granted.' The die
was roping in grabbed him just above the ankle,
and held on with a bulldog grip, until beaten off.
Curator A. S. Le Soeuf, of Sydney Zoo,
lately put the case for another Australian :
The opossum is a valuable fur-producing animal, which
in suitable country should be given the same care and
attention as is bestowed on sheep and cattle. The pre-
sent method of dealing with the animal is most haphazard
and wasteful, to say the least of it. Take a typical case
which actually happened in N.S.W. the other day. A
station-owner, with about 3000 opossums on hisproperty,
sold the right to catch them to trappers for £5OO, and
thought be had made a good bargain. The trappers
made a clean sweep, and the industry is done in that
district for a decade. But if the owner had given
a little attention to the animals, and left about
1500 females and 500 males for a breeding stock, he
would have had 1500 young annually, and when
these could take care of themselves he could
kill off the same number of mature specimens, which
would be worth at the present prices (say 7s. 6d. each)
£562 108. The expense of catching would take a station
hand three months, say £24 for wages. Traps, etc.,
would cost an equal amount; so, after deducting railway
freights and brokerage, there should be about £5OO per
annum for his trouble. Yet he was willing to sell the
producers of this income for the same amount in cash in
one year.
Opossums mature in 12 months, and will breed the
second year. They range in color from black to grey,
and from dark brown to rusty red and sometimes white.
They will breed true to color, and any desired race
can be maintained by selection. The animals feed on
almost anything, but eucalyptus is the main food. They
are easily trapped. Moreover, they sleep in holes in trees
during the day, and if small boxes are placed in the
boughs they will use these, and can be examined or taken
at any time required. Of course, on ordinary properties
there would be no occasion to fence them in. They do
not wander unless the food supply gives out.
Heavy forest-land useless for ordinary stock, and
country too poor or too damp for grass to grow, would,
if planted, give a good return from opossums ; and from
timber, too, if the more valuable trees are selected. The
number that could be carried per acre would depend
entirely on the food supply, and would \ary in every dis-
trict, but would probably be from 25 to 50.
* * * *
“ Snell ” : The solemn formalities attend-
ing the interment of a distant relation were
rudely interrupted by shrill screams from another
part of the burying-ground. The screams were
maintained, but were diversified by yells, the
sound of blows and other news of battle. Pre-
sently a wild, dishevelled female came charging
over a series of eminently respectable graves,
with her mangled hat in her hand, and her
golden hairpads a-nangingdown her back, closely
pursued by an exasperated sister armed with a
man’s umbrella and a just quarrel.. The pursuer
twice overhauled her victim with the brolly
before the assailed dashed into the thick of our
funeral, clamoring up to O for police protection
HIS GRIEVANCE.
IKE: “ Anythin' wrong, dad ?”
DAD: “ Anything wrong? I should think there
was. Here have I been 50 year on the track,
man and boy, and now this party says I’m
not a bona-fide traveller."
and the benefit of clergy. Her foe fell upon her
with the evident intention of plucking her like a
duck, and the persons responsible for the proper
and sedate conclusion of our particular burying
had to seize the combatants to prevent them
bounding into the open grave. They were torn
apart; but the lady with the brolly protested
furiously. “ Le’ me at ’er ! ” she yelled. "Jist
le’ me git hold of ’er. 1 'll teach the wretch to cry
on my husband’s grave / ,
ON ONE MAN PLAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
S’elp me,
It might have been wuss,
It might ha’ been better
(But I ain no fretter).
Here I am, old ,
Almost clean bowled
. (No good to fuss);
Blime, I’m cold,
Though the sun’s shinin’.
I’m a queer cuss.
No use repinin’—
Kinder missed the 'bus,
Spent all me gold
Soon as I got it.
Lent it or spent it
(S’pose I’ve made a muss)
One o’ the fool chaps,
P’raps.
Rich chaps—when ill or
Tired o’ the tramp
(I’m poor as Lazarus) —
Die on a piller
Soothed by a nuss;
No use to grumble,
No use to funk ;
My bed is humble,
Grass for me bunk.
Good enough for us
Tramps when we’re drunk,
Or when we’re trampin’
(No use to fuss),
Good enough, why, blime,
For the last campin’,
Grass an’ the blue sky ;
Who wants a nuss,
Makin’ him swaller stuff
When he wants ter lie still T
... Washin’ him, like enough.
I’m a lucky chap,
With me grass an’ sky ;
No roof or walls,
No folks crowdin’ by,
Whisperin’an’soft footfalls;
VV indin’ up affairs,
Farewells an’ fuss,
Sobbiu’s and prayers—
I’m a lucky chap.
Yet... I don’t know why—
’Cause I’m weak, mayhap—
Blowed if I don’t feel
I’ve somehow missed the ’bus,
Goin’ out alone
On me very own,
Givin’ th’ crows a meal,
Leavin’ but bleachin’ bone
Under the dazzlin’ sky.
I’m a poof old cuss
Lavin’ here to die,
Thirsty, hot an’ cold
... old
cuss—
Goin’ out alone
On me very own.
VICTORIA.
ALPENSTOCK.


Hotel
A ustralia
TARIFF:
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager, *
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
dmburghj
The Old Btead
Whisky
OIRECT FROM DISTILLER ft. *
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE MELLOW*
MAT Ua AO SCOTCH MALT* .
h
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
— with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Money Back if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS 8 CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“ E.S.S.” on wet sheep :
At the beginning of the season there was a good deal
of talk about an invention that was going to settle all
arguments re wet sheep. Whether it settled them or
not, I can’t say ; there has been a deep silence since it
was taken forth to demonstrate its efficacy. I suspect
it has got mixed up with the prickly pear exterminators
and other doubtful company. There should be good
money in a reliable tester, though it might seem a matter
of no importance to non-sheep men. Every shed in the
country, one might say, has had its squabbles over the
wetness or non-wetness of sheep. No shearer cares to
handle wet sheep—except near the cut-out, when he
wants to finish and get to another shed. It is often an
excellent excuse for a “ camp ” in the hut, when the work
has been hard, or broken weather has caused an
outbreak of that epidemic known as tired feel-
ing. If there has been a light shower the previous
day or night, the men go to work in the morning with
speculations as to the condition of the wool. One or two
sheep are shorn, and the verdict is “ wet.” The manager
feels the sheep in the pens, and votes “ dry,” and there’s
a wrangle. The dampness or otherwise of wool is not
easy to judge on a sheep’s back or when it is freshly cut.
A moist atmosphere gives a clammy, wettish feeling to
yolky wool. In one shed the classer took a piece of wool
from an alleged wet fleece and a piece from the bins,
shorn the day before, and asked the rep. which was the
wet one. He tested both, and picked the one that
came from the bins. At another shed, when a
shower of rain had dampened things a little during
the night, the manager, having a shrewd idea as
to the temper of his team, hurried down early
in the morning and let out the sheep that had been
penned overnight, filling their places with damp sheep
from the yard. The men shore them till breakfast time
w'ithout protest. The ppns were cutout in the second
run ; then the dry sheep were put in. Each shore one,
and each man proclaimed his fleece wet. One
asserted that his particular hogget was sopping, and he’d
be pick-axed if he was going to continue on sheep like
that, to get rheumatism and other abominable com-
plaints for the sake of a few bob. The sheep were
turned out, and they remained out for two days. There
was no dampness about them when they came back.
*•***■
At a recent meeting of the Brisbane
Charity Organisation Society the question of
beggars cropped up, and Governor Macgregor,
who presided, told about one he knew in the
South Sea Islands. He first dropped across him
in a hill fort during a mountain war. The nigger
was badly wounded in the knee, and to save his
life Macgregor amputated the injured leg. The
patient recovered, and, being the only one-legged
person thereabouts, was regarded as something of
a curiosity. He took to cadging for a living, and
did pretty well at the business, but eventually got
tired of it and wrote this letter to Mac : “ Dear
Sir, —It is through you that I am now alive. I
was dying and you saved me by removing my leg.
You afterwards kept me alive. You are there-
fore my father, and it is your duty to provide for
me.” Naturally, being a Scotchman, Mac. saw
the joke. And naturally, for the same reason,
Wun Leg didn’t see the annuity.
* ■* * *
“C.K.Y.”: Am on the Hawkesbury, 30
miles from Sydney, almost in the suburbs, yet
have wallabies, ’possums, platypus, dingoes, lyre-
birds, bandicoots, besides assorted snakes, all in
the landscape. Now the foxes are here in droves.
Our local Hunt Club, that chased the red herring
for years, went bung just as the genuine article
came along. The local fox is twice the size of the
British beast, and often more yellow than red ;
also he has a whole orchestra of diabolical cries
for night serenadings—cries that I never heard
made by his Damp Country relative. The usual
dog will not face the local fox, and the unusual dog
wishes he had left the business alone. We have
also a Pastures Protection Board that—that draws
its salary.
A SOCIAL ITEM FROM THE DOMAIN.
THE ONE WITH THE TOP- HAT: “ It’s a nice dressy turnout, as you say , Bill; but I think I
shall ’are to pop it an get me panama out for the ’ot weather."
“ Machete ” : The Papuan of the Mamba
River, who is a true Papuan, believes firmly in
devils, and associates them with the strange
spiked implements he uses in his elaborate cere-
monial dances and plays. Also, the charms the
Papuan cuts from wood are invariably spiked.
In fact, the artless Papuan Pagan couples the
Devil with spiked tail, horns and toasting-fork,
much as his more civilized Christian brother
does. Why this association of spikes and Sheol ?
And has it any connection with the Prickly
Curse ?
THE PROVOCATION.
THE COPPER: “ Did he say any harsh words to
you?”
FUDDLED ONE: “Yes, he says ter vie (hie)
‘ You’re drunk.’ I can’t stand insulsh, so I
tapped ’im with me bottle.”
“Tindog”: The Nor’-Wesfc pearling
grounds are infested by a queer fish with a
sucker on-the back of its head. Sometimes a dozen
will adhere to a lugger, which isn’t good for the
lugger’s progress. The beast is a great scavenger,
and will let go and dart out every time you throw
anything overboard. The only time these fish
entirely leave the boat is when it comes to Broome
and gets high and dry on the beach. As the tide
is ebbing away, you will see them drop off and
wriggle through a few inches of water hack to the
sea. Their suction power is about equal to that
of a dredge or the blackmailing adventuress in the
melodrama. A land animal of similar capacity
could suck trees out of the ground.
“ Barcoo ” : Re the big Cambridge Downs
(Q.) shearing tallies (B. 8/9/’10). They wouldn’t
have looked so big to professional barbers if it
had been added that they were put up with
broad-gauge combs. Fifteen men with a portable
plant on the Flinders, which is in the same dis-
trict as Cambridge, averaged 197 per day for a
week, and used the ordinary combs. This was in
1903, and the same crowd did the same in 1904,
and, all things considered, I reckon that’s far the
better job of the two.
* * * *
“ Casino ” : “ Vigilans’s ” par. (B. 1/9/10)
is interesting, but very wide of the mark in
several places. Pigmy geese are not
found solely in the Northern Territory.
I have shot plenty all through Queens-
land, and one pair as far south as the
Richmond River (N.S.W.). The state-
ment that the whistler is the only duck
that perches on trees is also wrong in
fact. Every bush boy knows that at
nesting time, or in times of flood, black
ducks are frequently seen ’lighting on
trees—the so-called wood duck is a goose,
and is not on in this act. To change
the subject violently: Has the fre-
quently-expressed opinion that ducks
carry their young out of trees in their
bills got any evidence behind it? On
several occasions I have seen ducks
taking their freshly-hatched broods
across country to swamps and lagoons,
but always on the “hoof.” Once a
black boy and myself were boiling our
quart-pot about midday at the foot of a
big gum, when we were suddenly assailed
by a shower of six or eight small duck-
lings, which came down one at a time
from a hollow limb quite 40ft. above,
and instantly dived out of sight in the
long grass. The nigger’s explanation
was that at dusk the mother would
collect her family and take them over-
land to the river, which was about a
mile distant. Brown brother pointed
out that the motion of the infants’
stumpy wings caused a sort of spiral
descent which broke the fall. I once
saw a musk duck swimming along with
a young one perched on her back, but I
think the musk family rarely exceeds one. At
any rate, I have never seen the old musk lady
with more.
*•*•»*
“ Itan ” : Which Australian tree gives the
coolest shade? My bank note goes on the More-
ton Bay fig. In an inland N. S. Wales town
where I wielded the editorial crowbar for some
time, there was growing at the back of the pre-
mises a big fig, the branches of which spread
themselves across the roof. Extensions to the
building necessitated the uprooting of the oldest
arboreal inhabitant, and the result was an increase
in the summer temperature of 10 to 15 degrees.
ALONG THE CONDAMINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cattle low, the breezes blovv
And flirt the leaves among,
And stir the fronds which fringe the ponds
Where festooned vines are hung.
The grey gum-boles, like aureoles,
Glow in the autumn shine ;
On Fancy’s track I travel back
Along the Condamine.
When sunsets flame, a grey-haired dame,
Her dim eyes filled with pain,
In pictured poise, and deaf to noise,
Looks out across the plain,
Where shadows loom and gathering gloom
Obscures the herds of kine ;
And long her gaze peers through the haze
That shrouds the Condamine.
A garden gate at evening late
In fancy I can see.
Where scented musk pervades the dusk,
A maiden waits for me.
I left her there when skies were fair,
The world with hope a-shine.
She’s waiting still upon the hill
Above the Condamine.
A mother’s eyes, with glad surprise.
Will glow ere weeks are gone ;
A maiden true shall doff the rue
And orange blossoms don.
My mind goes hack on Fancy’s track,
And soon, O hearts o’ mine !
Again I’ll ride, whate’er betide,
Along the Condamine.
QUEENSLAND.
AUSTIN DODD.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excent of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will oe
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Midnight: Would have made a good par. if you*
hadn’t kept the names of the townships such a dark
secret J.A.R. : There is no reason. The thing just-
dropped in a second time when nobody was looking....
Nemesis : Not going to try to read it. We are all nearly
blind already... .O. A.G. : Off our beat... .Marcus : You re"
an illogical cuss. You admit that a land tax to get at the
unearned increment shouldn’t be progressive, and that a
progressive taxis a breaking-up tax ; yet you persist in
snarling at The Bulletin for asking Fisher what is the
good of applying the breaking-up tax to mere streaks of
city land which obviously can’t be broken up any moie....
Elwin B. Smith : This paper said that the famous nurse
was permitted to die plain Florence Nightingale while
mere ancient kings’ Totties had been turned into-
Duchesses. Whereupon you remark: “ Surely Horence
Nightingale might have been spared such disgraceful
mud-slinging.” On the whole, this paper feels sorry for
you, and wonders whether you would have been a better
judge of mud if you had been born Hoggins instead of
Smith. ..A.W.B. : “ Why are so many men kept on at the
coal-mines when they don’t work two-thirds of their
time?” Well, the yarn is that when a shipping order
comes in the stuff has to be ripped out in a few hours,
because it doesn’t paj’ to mine the coal gradually and
dump it till it is wanted, and then re-load it. Also, in
brisk years, full time is worked ; and the men hang on in
hopes of the brisk years arriving again S.P.D. : Itis
the Oldest Inhabitant of the W.P.B. It remembers when
the mother-in-law jest was invented, and it had to dust
its spectacles to read the riddle about “ that man s
father is my father’s son ”,... E.L.F. : Hopeless. No
stamps enclosed for return... Ethelle : Blown 0ut....
11.E.G. (S.A.): Reserved fora second reading.... Sept:
The sort of stuff a bustling comedian rattles off between
the verses of a “ female impersonation. ”... .Banco : It is
“ Off the Track ’’—right 0ff.... Cam : Found Bill uninter-
esting . H.E.W. : An old, old topic and a green, young
pen.... A.C. (M.L.): Don’t speak so harshly to yourself.
We can’t use it, but the description doesn’t deserve scorn.
K.C.G.D. : Unsuitable.... Blue Duck : Back to your
lagoon! You can only waddle with great difficulty....
R.J.D. : “ Flanagan’s Mare” turned out to graze in the
basket V.E.T. (V.): The sorrowful pig-rhyme is only
humorous in a one-squeak way Daughter of O.: “Ship-
wrecked ” unsuitable.... Cam : Sketch is a bit slight....
Sccibo : Verses unsuitable. Will use the text....H.E.
(N.S.W.): No, we can’t “salt it up a little.” It isn’t
meat or fish.. ..The Atom : Too slight and conventional.
....BoydO.: Both unsuitable. Handling dull.. ..Astor :
The fire rhyme is the better ; but neither arrive. They
are both uneven, and the trick of repeating the last two
lines right through gets monotonous....J.A.: “The
Shepherd” is a London tract.... Gil G.: That Rocke-
feller whisky-bath item is ancient history now and you
send in topical verse about it....R.J.1. (M.L.): Sandy
can’t do the distance this time... .Boronia: “Requiem”
reverently rejected.... Max : Painstaking work, but it
never quite struggles out of the rut, and is lacking in
force and finish... .Jack K. : Verses below par....
J.J.O. : Last edition of Webster gives “advisability,”
and, so far as the B. is concerned, Web. can have his
way Nondescript: The ballad of Stinker Smith strikes
us as below par. In this office the demand for people
called Stinker is limited.... Old Salt: Thanks, but dealt
with already.... John W. (Auckland): (1) Clipping is
from a Sydney newspaper ; (2) the statements are quite
correct, and only touch the fringe of the evil Le
Strange: We cast “The Frivolous Lover” in heavy
damages, and, as he didn't pay, jugged him in the basket.
Nationalist: There are about 340 sound reasons why
your idea of peopling the Northern Territory with Aus-
tralian aboriginals strikes us as impracticable, not to say
damphoolish Fagin : A true bill, hut badly drafted.
Pro Tek: That firm says it will be much
obliged for the addresses of the “number of
Australian manufacturers” that can do the work.
The question has been raised before W.J. :
It has several technical defects and we can’t dis-
cover any meaning in it. The poem that begins “Wel-
come, O Midnight!” usually suffers from both troubles
We want somebody to write a poem welcoming 1.37 a.m. for
a change M. J. O’H. (S. A.): Looked twice at the harvest-
ing rhyme but finally decided against it; other colorless.
W.T. (Darlinghurst): Doesn’t sparkle ’Speare :
Shake the dust of the Inky Way off your feet—you are
trespassing! Barcoo W. : Bill’s few remarks before
turning in don’t call for publication Max M.G. : You
might as well stop. Cannot keep track of pars F.C. :
We will take the first verse of “The Bushman’s Farewell
to his Steed ” :
Whilst travelling over Australia, sunny mountains and
dales
I by chance seen my once owned beautiful mare
“alright”
She danced and pranced in delight when she saw me
inhales
The saddle and bridle was on her : she was teathered to a
man ; hand she rared in delight.
. ...W.E.B. (M.L.): “Dump Lips ”is an inarticulate poem
with technical faults. “ Breathes ” does not rhyme with
“trees” and “breeze”; nor does “morn” rhyme with
“storm.” The “ denied”-" cries” discord is evidently
amateurish carelessness Some’Prentice Poet: “Fuel,
Firearms and Funerals” cast out in one heap Lib.
(M.L.): Monotonous... D.M. (Kogarah): Sorry “Bobs”
unsuitable. Try one of the papers mentioned E.0.P.:
Sketch not badly done, but Subject ancient Max:
Faint jingle, and behind the times. Wireless should be
your theme now Tahuna (M.L.): ' Unsuitable
C.E.R.: “The Letter” is just breezy, ordinary jingle.
Only in the last verse is there any warmth. The first
three neatly-typed verses merely catalogue the Bush
Sam: Suppressed “The Cookie’s Snarl.” Homo: Neat
trifle ; but too many cooks have dished it up before....
Jumbuek : Thanks for suggestion, but can’t act on it at
present....o.W.J. : N.S.W. has done the same thing
already at National Park and elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.D.L. : Keep drawing for another four years and then
let’s hear from y0u.... V.R., J. Tag, L. E. McD., H.G.H.,
Percy R. ; No value....Verner, Jim Smith: There is
hope for both of you... .Riverina : One may serve as a
suggestion.... E. S. McD.: Last season’s goods..
Norman McM., W.F.: Ditto: G.G.J.: “Undressed kids”
joke worn out shortly after the Deluge... .Emoss: Good :
wish they were your own... .Slow One: Yes; they read
horribly like facts.
There is sunshine on the mountain,
There is verdure on the hill;
There is laughter at the fountain,
In the valley lurks a chill.
If you get a chill you’ll suffer,
And perhaps much pain endure :
If you wish to cheat Death’s River,
just take Woods’ Peppermint Cure.*


London, Tues-
day Afternoon.—
Five Chinese law*
> yers are in London. v
They were impressed \
by the law courts, and
stated that it was the
intention of the Chinese
to institute reforms in
criminal procedure.
“ Proceedings were varied by
an altercation between Mr. Cook
and the Chairman (Mr. Poyn-
ton;. The former accused the
Chairman of insulting him, and
refused to continue his speech.”
That’s what you might call re-
turning good for evil 1
Future Chinese Judge Pring : “ Have *
you sterilised the foreign-devil
book which you hold in your >
hand?” /
Usher: “Thoroughly, your /
Honor I*' /
Judge: “Then swear /
\ the witnessl” /
The Sydney D.T.
has made the dis-
f covery that Wade
is an “ all-round[ sport,”
having played every game from
polo to ping-pong. In the enthu-
siasm of enumerating his achieve-
ments the D.T. eyen calls him
“ Charlie " Wade 1!
v\
% \
V-
The S./M. Herald complains that there
are no actual manual laborers on the
hustings.
t>allcr that Charlie
Wade will always
be best remembered.
As an act of con*
descenslon to him,
he was allowed to
V play as a pick-up. ’PI
\ The first time he )
\ got the ball he tried a drop*.
X kick for goal* and missed,
X Pitying smiles. Another
attempt—another miss.
Pitying and audible
smiles.'’
There Is something
almost sweetly alle-
gorical about the
above.
Penny-a-Liner j “ Where’s yer bloomin’
bowyangs? ”
The first statue erected to
the German Emperor was
unveiled yesterday at Cologne.
It weighs four tons and a
half.
T
Ist Citizen: “ Not a bad portrait, is it?”
2nd Citizen: “No. And if there had
only been a phonograph attachment
to be kept going day and night, It
would indeed be a speaking like-
ness. Hein?”
Melbourne, Sunday.—A girl has been
discovered at Ballarat with a bird’s
throat. A doctor says he could not
.distinguish her notes from those of a
bird, probably a canary, warbling at the
rear o 1 his residence. /
Jf Hop had a daughter like that, he
would put her In a sweetly pretty cage
and hang her ufron the verandah as a
.counterblast to the cockatoo next door.
He would.
To be followed later on by Political
Sore Head.
Hustings Sore Throat—a pre-
valent epidemic.
SHOOTING FOR GOAL, &c.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
belicioiu
Ormk. *
ĥ
Extract
FntiAfUrtt
O.T. Is a comforting drink, which warms, la*,
vigorous, sod make* you proof against the cold
atmospheres ol Winter. It is a grand remedy
lor Colds, Colic, aed lotllgesiloa.
Take homo a douie to<dayl
rities
°n Modern Science^
\
\
\
has bean]
the bei
fa’ctenwaglWii j
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“ JUD"; OR THE ARTESIAN BORE.
When he leaves Victoria, Tait will not go
hack to railway work. He is going to “take it
easy.” He wasn’t exactly a poor man when he
came to Australia, and Hans Irvine showed him
the way into numerous profitable mining specs.
He will presumably retire to Montreal; his father
was Chief Justice there.
Robert Stout, M.L.’s Chief Justice,
becomes more and more wowserish in his old age
(he is now 66). He has for years been a sup-
porter of No License and No Tobacco, which
didn’t matter much so long as the support was
confined to mothers’ meetings or the Rational
Association, where Stout has occasionally preached
and detailed with much apparentdistress thedrawn
faces and stunted growth of the cigarette-smoking
youth or “the nicotine-stained fingers of bar-
risters ” who appeared before him. But unfortu-
nately he has started to pour out his fads into the
pot of justice. A few days ago, at Auckland, a
young man, found guilty of perjury, came before
Stout for sentence; and, after being told that
“ he had doubtless fallen entirely through drink,”
he was released on two years’ probation on the
following terms: (1) During the first 12 months
he is not to leave his house after 8 o’clock at
night without the probation officer’s consent; (2)
he must not during the two years visit an hotel;
(3) he must not drink intoxicating liquors ; (4) he
must not smoke; (5) he must consent to the issue
of a prohibition order. It’s a good job that Stout,
0. J., is not a vegetarian and a Mormon, or the
bewildered probationer might have been ordered
toliveon peanuts and marry 17 widows.
When Australia first began to dig out
some of its zinc the whole lot of it went to Ger-
many and Belgium. Then a big English crowd
that was interested in the stuff decided to start
the intricate and highly technical zinc-smelting
business in England, and German engineers and
chemists were got
across to build and
run the works.
Apparently, such
a mess was made
of things that, at
the end of three
years, the loss on
the business had
been £28,030. Just
before that third
year ended the co.
(which happens to
have ex-Governor
Kintore for chair
man) looked round
for an Australian
engineer-metallur-
gist, and shipped
off J. C. Moulden,
an Adelaide young
man, then working
for the Sulphide
Corporation. This
past year the co.
shows a trading
profit for the first
time; and the
directors—includ-
ing Kintore and
“Better Not”
Wa 11 ingt o n—
“place on record
their high appre-
ciation of the work
done by ” the Aus-
tralian young man,
“which has resulted in bringing the affairs of the
co. into a much more promising condition.” After
all, it seems, the Australian can carry out a much
more intricate job than the manufacture of a
clothes peg. Still, Heaven only knows why the
Australian metallurgist should have to go to
England to take the Australian dirt out of Aus-
tralian metal.
Alison G. O. Pain, the Perth (W.A.)
journalist who died the other day, was a relative
of Barry Pain, the novelist; and it was through
the latter that he was dragged into the turmoil of
the Inky Way.
“He was a strong and fearless man,” says
Premier Murray of Kailway Commissioner Tait,
who has thrown up his job.
“ He was a strong and fearless man ”
That epitaph, we all agree,
Fits him as well as any can ;
But kindly add : “ Unhappily,
His trains were not as strong as he.”
Some Australian birthdays for October :
Bishop Camidge, 73 on the 2nd; N. C. “Cus-
toms” Lockyer, 55 on the 6th; Artist Hans
Heysen, 34, and Rose Scott, 630 n the Bth ; Educa-
tion Secretary Stanton (S.A.), 67 on the 14th;
Editor Bonython (S. A), 62, and J. G. Duffy, 56
on the 15th ; J. R. Fairfax, 76 on the 17th ; Ex-
President Wrixon, 71 on the 18th ; Colonel Tom
Price, 68 on the 21st; Premier Lewis (Tas.), 52 on
the 27th; Murray Smith, (Vic.), 79, ex-Judge
Boucaut (S.A.), 79 on the 29th.
More played-out Australians!
Michael Hindmarsh, founder of a well-known
N.S.W. family, married Cely Sophia Rutter, a
native of the Ma State and a member of a very
early family, in 1824. Michael died at 67, and
Cely at 62. They had 14 children, of whom two
died in infancy, and need not be counted. One
died at 68, and the rest are still alive and busy.
The youngest is 58, and the grand total of ages
(including the son who gave up at 68) is 860 years.
I don’t know how many descendants there are ;
but the old lady I know best has 48 grandchildren
and nine great-grandchildren.
Cheerful story of the early days in Tas-
mania, recalled by Henry Button, of Launceston
Examinf.u, in his new book of reminiscences. A
Hobart lady had, as cook, a female convict who
was very clever, but resented all interference with
her duties. One time the mistress, trying to
exert authority, was met by a platform with just
two planks in it. (1) Cook wouldn’t have any-
body trapesing into her kitchen. (2) The trouble
she had been transported for was killing a man.
Audited and found correct; and missis thereafter
stayed in the parlor—with the door locked.
Two persons have been condemned to
death in Sydney within a week ; and the Sheriff’s
Department begins to take a new interest in life.
Mr. Mayburv, the Sheriff, likes a department
with some go in it. He gave up several jobs be-
cause they did not seem to lead to anything
definite. He was, nearly 40 years ago, a public-
school teacher. But there was no finality in
dealing with boys. They came back again and
again with the same offences on their head. So
he obtained an appointment in the Post Office.
But that was no better. After a time he applied
for a petty sessions clerkship, and was sent to
Bathurst. But there was no finality there either;
the same parties were always coming back. The
Sheriff’s Department is really the only one
that can call itself final. When certain pre-
liminaries are completed the Sheriff can step for-
ward and say, “Go,” and the party never comes
back. Mayburv, therefore, by aprocessof natural
selection became Under-Sheriff in 1882 and Sheriff
in 1896.
Oxford University nowadays offers a special
degree to the eye-mender. At the examination
held lately there were 14 candidates and nine
passes, and of the nine two were Australians—-
Newman, late of Casterton (Vic.), and Waddy,
of N.S.W.
AT THE SYDNEY ZOO.—WHEN THE
JAPANESE COME.
“ Never mind, Jacko! We'll soon be free. Togo
will be here in another week.”
The cable brings news of the death of
Andrew Rowan, one of Melbourne’s best-known
men of a generation back. He came originally
from Down, in Ireland, and set up in Melbourne
as a dealer in station supplies, with a branch in
Sydney. Then he himself “ squatted ” in Queens-
liind. He was one of the original directors of the
Melbourne Tram Co., and had a seat on the Board
of Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. and other large,
Fat enterprises.
Michael O’Loghlen, eldest son of Victoria’s
ancient baronet, has been appointed a Deputy
Lieutenant of the County Clare, Ireland, where
the family has a small property. The first
baronet, grandfather of the present, who is the
fourth, was the first Roman Catholic Judge
appointed in Ireland after the Reformation. He
was a friend of O’Connell, and has a marble statue
to his memory in the hall of the Law Courts in
Dublin.
Before Bishop Dawes, who died the other
day, took to shepherding he was a civil engineer,
and superintended the erection of a bridge over
the Thames at Fogtown. He was the first
Anglican Gaiters consecrated in Australia. Be-
fore that, there was a notion that the garments
couldn’t be put on properly except in Bull’s
country ; but, when Brisbane wanted a coadjutor-
bishop, the local authorities decided to chance it,
and had the job done in Sydney. They didn’t
even send to England for a man, for Dawes had
been shepherding in South Brisbane for years.
No evil results followed from either desperate
experiment.
A scheme is on foot to shift the monument
of Col. Collins, the founder of Hobart, from the
disused graveyard, where it now stands, to the
Parliamentary Reserve over the way. The pre-
sent monument was not erected until 1838, in the
time of Sir John Franklin. A small wooden
church, the first in the settlement, used to stand
on the spot, and Collins was buried beneath it.
When the church went, the vault underneath was
forgotten for years, until some small boys, playing
in thechurchyard, foundit. Then Franklin whipped
up enough money to get the place marked with a
graven image. Collins’s funeral, by the way, was
a gorgeous business. Everyone had new clothes
for the occasion, and everything was distributed
from the general store. The lengthy list of
articles applied for suggests that the colonists must
have previously borrowed summer fashions from
the aborigines. There was trouble when the
time came for the British Government to foot the
bill. But it swallowed its scruples and did it.
“Deeby”: Ex-Premier Joe Carruthers,
who gives up these latter days to money-making,
and doesn’t worry much about either law or
politics, is the shrewdest land-speculator I know.
No matter where he buys land, there, sooner or
later (but mostly sooner), a railway line is built.
It is now even proposed to construct one through
the mostly-emprv big estates from Cooma to the
neighborhood of Oarruthers’s property on the road
to Kosciusko. I don’t know whether he will be
able to guess the McGowen Government’s inten-
tions as well; but if, by some horrible accident,
the Wade Government should continue in office,
my tip is to buy land as near as possible to wher-
ever Carruthers may elect to make his next
purchase.
Died, in London, “ Chief” Jim Shaw, one-
time Mayor of Coolgardie. and later Mayor of
Adelaide. One of the ideal men of an early rush,
he was generous as sunlight, kindly as spring,
his one offence being that bad language which is
only skin deep. As Mayor of Adelaide he gave a
ball at the Town Hall, and everybody said it was
a great success. After the dancers had gone, Jim
Shaw went to the Napoleon for a drink ; and said
a friend to him : “ How did the ball go, ‘Chief’? ’
“ I’ll tell you,” says Jim. “About 2 o’clock this
mornin’. Lady came to me an’ slaps me on
the back, an’, says she : ‘Jim, s’help me , this
is the best hop I was ever at in me life.’
So there you are.” Then those who knew “the
Chief ” understood that the lady had said : “ Mr.
Shaw, this is a charming dance.”
Ex-Speaker Alfred Cowley thus addressed
the Brisbane Rechabites at their annual meeting
last week :
Our late beloved monarch, King Edward, owned the
whole of one village, and in that area the sale of intoxi-
cating liquors was absolutely forbidden. (Loud applause.)
If Alfred and his Rechabites will turn to the
Melbourne Age (Sept. 10) they will find another
little bit of royal information :
The King of England is master of many industries. It
is not generally known that he is owner of a distillery in
which is manufactured the very finest irhisky. This dis-
tillery is situated on the Balmoral estate, and is known as
Lochnagar, and its products are reserved exclusively for
the use of members of the Royal family and their respec-
tive households.
Now Bung can have his turn. It’s a handy sort
of monarch that can be a shining example to the
people on both sides of the beer-pump.
STATE RIGHTS.
American newspapers denounce ex-President Roose-
velt for the part he is taking in State politics. It is sug-
gested that he should confine himself to national ques-
tions. — Cable.
UNCLE SAM: “ Dang it, Teddy, look at Aus-
tralia's awful plight and give up the habit.”
Although Premier John Verran, of South
Aus., prides himself on his bluntness of speech,
the papers won’t have it untrimmed. “Peake,”
he shouted angrily, banging a clenched fist on the
table, thereby causing the Chairman and the
water-bottle to jump simultaneously, “he’s a rat.
You take it from me; a sewer rat, that’s what he
is, when you come to his politics.” And this is
how a daily put it: “Mr. Verran referred to Mr.
Peake as a chameleon, his political skin always
harmonising completely with his environment.”
THE CARPENTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Carpenters of Providence are hustling to and fro ;
I hear the sound of hammering—it’s time for Wade to go !
The coffin-shop is echoing—whilst busy hammers beat
The corpse is slowly stiffening beneath the winding sheet.
The Carpenters have measured it, this cold cadaver who
Will shortly rest beneath the ground with all the buried
crew.
The hearse is new-caparisoned, the plumes are nodding
slow ;
The Carpenters have passed the word and the remains
must go.
The hammers beat in harmonj'—it somehow seems to
me
That Mister Wade’s not popular, as the remains should
be!
The State is all a coffin-shop that seems to shout
“ Hooray !
It’s Mister Wade we’re burying—we’re planting him to-
day I
A dismal nark was Gregory, an angry cove and sour !
But now he’s drifting tomb-ward ; we will plant him in
an hour.
We’ve waited for him very long—we thought he’d never
die ;
But now he’s cold as Potiphar, and so our hammers fly ! ”
The Carpenters of Providence, ivho planted Alf and Joe,
They're busy noiv with Gregory—it’s time for him to go !
The Public Undertakery is boxing Mister Wade —
Hark hoiv each dead Conservative goes whizzing down the
grade!
Each Tory croivd that perishes in caskets large and neat
Is placed by merry Carpenters, and cheerful hammers
beat!
It is the pleased elector-folk, who hustle to-and-fro ;
They’re planting Wade the bickersome—dashed glad to
see him go !
victoria.
GRANT HERVEY.


(Heavy Weights)
-if Vi-it '!i
-;> -1 '
:l (
0
'V,
s
“ There s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia , & no better brand than the
4 Three Castles!” — Thackeray , “The Virginians
In Packets and Flat Tins of lO
and Air-Tight Tins of 50.
The famous brand of W. D. <SI H. O. WILLS.


“National” Gas Engines and Suction Plants
Known as the “Royal ” Gold Medal Engines and Plants, beat all comers
in England after exhaustive trials.
EXCELLENT RESULTS FROM EITHER COKE OR CHARCOAL.
SOLE AGENTS, with experts from the English Works:—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER 8 CO., 2 Circular Quay East, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
WT 7t NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.YV.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Aug.,'o3.. £12,631 10p.c. =£7,428 £5,203 £118,826
Feb., ’04.. 11,646 10 ~ ~ 7,428 4,218 123,044
Aug.,’o4.. 12,635 10 ~ „ 7,428 5,207 123,251
Feb., ’05.. 12,791 10 ~ „ 7,428 >5,363 133,614
Aug.,’os.. 11,532 12 ~ „ 8,914 2,618 136,232
Premiums on new shares .. 8,508 144,740
Feb., ’06.. 11,298 12p.c.= 9,450 971 877 145,617
Aug.,’o6.. 13,811 12 „ „ 9,450 1000 3,361 148,978
Feb., ’07.. 14,564 12 ~ „ 9,450 2000 3,114 152,092
Aug.,’o7.. 17,164 12 „ „ 9,450 6000 1,714 153,806
Premiums on new shares .. 25,000 178,806
Feb., ’OB.. 17,120 12 p.c. = 11,025 2500 3,595 182,401
Aug.,’oB.. 16,272 12 ~ ~11,025 2500 2,747 185,148
Feb., ’09.. 16,142 12 „ ~11,025 2500 2,617 187,765
Aug.,’o9.. 16,663 12 „ ~11,025 2500 3,138 190,903
Feb., ’lO.. 16,346 12 „ ~ 11,156 2500 2,690 193,593
Aug.,’lo.. 16,575 12 „ ~11,156 2500 2,919 196,512
This bank has its own way of doing business. It has only
three directors, of whom one is managing-director ; and
it has no auditor. In the latter respect, it now stands
alone, so far as The Bulletin can remember,
among the banks of the Commonwealth. The West-
ralian Bank used to belong to the same strange
persuasion ; but it joined the Conformists a few
years ago, leaving the Commercial of Tasmania to
argue out the point alone with its shareholders. No
doubt a 12 per cent, dividend is a sweet, seductive song
for any management to sing ; but it wouldn’t necessarily
follow that the tune would be changed even if there
were an auditor. And, anyhow, there are others beside
the shareholders to consider. For every £1 that the
latter have in the bank the public (depositors, etc.) have
£4 65.; and the people with the £4 6s. more or less at
stake deserve whatever protection an independent audit
can give them.
The bank, in spite of its strange old ways (it is
the second-oldest bank in Australasia), has some staunch
friends, and a lot of Tasmanian business passes to it auto-
matically—partly, no doubt, because “ the Barclays,” the
chief rulers of the concern, are reckoned to have a
strong pull in the small island. So, though it hasn’t the
use of any tremendous amount of outside money in pro-
portion to its own, its profits show up very well.
Reckoned on the basis of capital and reserves, recent
figures work out at this :
Feb., 1907 .. £9 14 10 p.c. Feb., 1909 ..£8 19 3 p.c.
Aug., 1907 .. 11 7 3 „ Aug., 1909 .. 9 3 9 „
Feb., 1908 .. 10 8 3 Feb., 1910 .. 818 8 ~
Aug., 1908.. 9 2 1 „ Aug., 1910.. 819 10 ~
No doubt, the return is helped by the hidden reserve,
represented partly by written-down values of property.
Though the bank has put a good many thousands lately
into premises—including big offices at Launceston —its
premises account stands at only £51,124. Its cash posi-
tion is never very strong, however. Lately it has
been strengthened—possibly in view of the fact
that the bank will have to pay out gold for its own notes
and buy Commonwealth notes with more of the same
handy sort of mineral; yet even now, in spite of those
pending transactions, it has only 32 per cent, of the
public’s money in liquid assets. No douht much of t his
gold will come back to the bank, for neither the people
who get gold for the old notes nor the Commonwealth
Government which gets gold for the new notes will eat the
sovereigns. Still, there will be a temporary disarrange-
ment ; and so far as liquid assets are concerned the Com-
mercial of Tasmania is in no stronger position than it
ought to be.
In the past 12 months the chief items have
moved like this :
Aug., ’O9. Aug., ’lO.
Liabilities: —
Notes and Bills £60,715 £65,627 Inc. £4,912
Deposits .. 1,507,534 1,529,138 Inc. 21,604
Liquid Assets.. 479,601 514,054 Inc. 34,453
Advances .. 1,424,330 1,414,756 Dec. 9,574
Premises .. 43,746 51,124 Inc. 7,378
That shows a slight increase in deposits and a slight de-
crease in advances, with the consequent increase in liquid
assets mentioned above. But how slowly the figures do
mount 1 Ten years ago the deposits were £1,456,702,
or only £72,436 less than they are now. Con-
sidering the remarkably fine seasons of the
past few years, and the remarkably fine prices
for most of the things Tasmania has to sell, the
snail-like pace of the growth of deposits is a shocking re-
flection either on the Government of Tasmania or on this
bank. And this paper doesn’t think the reflection is on
the bank, except insofar as it is responsible for the
Government of the State.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Bonus to Added
Policy- to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. holders, serves, serves.
1904.. £3683 8 p.c. =£ll2o £416 £2147 £1647
1905 .. 2182 6 ~ „ 1177 360 645 2292
1906 .. 2048 6 „ ~ 1186 415 447 2739
1907 .. 1529 5 ~ „ 988 541 3280
1908 .. 1818 6 ~ ~ 1186 632 3912
1909 .. 1324 6 „ „ 1186 138 4050
1910 .. 16 6 „ ~ 1186 2880
If this co.’s annual report had come out about a fortnight
earlier, some people might have stopped to think it over
again before they rushed along with their cheques for
another new Australian insurance co. which wais lately
put on the market. And, though they might still have
dropped in with their cheques at the brokers’, others
might have thought still harder before they rushed the
shares up to a fairly stiff premium. It is all very well to
consider the dividends paid by existing Australian fire or
fire-and-marine insurance cos. In most cases they no
doubt are very enticing. But while this kind of co.
usually does splendidly after it has got to manhood,
there is a big proportion that can’t get through the
troubles of infancy. In 1885 there were no less than 30
Australasian cos. doing this kind of business ; and of the
30, no less than 19 have disappeared—the Ade-
laide, Australian Alliance, Australian General, Aus-
tralian Mercantile Union, Colonial (M.L.), Equitable
Fire, Equitable of M.L., Indemnity, Industrial
Mutual Fire, Mercantile of S. Aus., Metropolitan
Mutual, National of Australasia, Pacific, South
Australian, Southern, Sydney Lloyd’s, Sydney Marine,
United Australian, Union of M.L. .In most cases
they have, of course, been absorbed; that is to
say, shareholders have got something for their busi-
ness, much or little—mostly little. And at odd times
since 1885 other offices have been started and have
dropped out. Investors can’t therefore regard a fire-and-
marine proposition as a dead-sure thing. Much money is
made in it—and much is lost. And a good deal more is
lost than should be, because the public will not realise
that the results of the first year are no true standard for
judging future losses, wherefore shares are frequently
rushed to extravagant prices. In this Commonwealth
case it will be observed that the so-called profits for the
first year were nearly twice as great as they have been in
any subsequent year. The fact, alluded to at the time,
was that while a’full year’s premium had been received in
most cases, only a few months’ risks had been carried.
The co. s present misfortune, resulting in a loss
of £B3B on the actual business of underwriting for the
year, appears to be mainly due to marine insurance.
The rates on this class of risk —and especially on ocean
cargoes—have for some time past been so ridiculously
low that the more prudent offices have been cutting down
their “lines ” ; and rather late in the day this co. follows
suit. The next list shows how the year compares with
those that have gone before : x
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1904 .. £8,813 £3758 £1905 42.6 p.c. 21 "6 p.c.
1905 .. 7,590 4207 1944 55'4 „ 25'6 ~
1906 .. 8,359 4712 2376 56 3 „ 28'4 ~
1907 .. 10,071 6649 2654 06'0 „ 25’3 „
1908\. 11,370 7382 2890 64’9 „ * 25'4 „
1909 .. 9,148 6170 2453 67 4 „ 26'8 „
1910 .. 9,937 7378 3397 74 7 4 „ 341 ~
That is to say, for every £lOO received as premi : the
co. had last year to pay out £lOB 10s. to cover losses and
expenses. Fortunately, the interest on investments came
to the rescue of the co. and kept it from having to show
an absolute loss. Under the circumstances, no div.
should have been paid. The directoft, however, decided
on the usual 6 per cent., which will reduce the reserves
to £2880; and that is probably no more than is necessary
to cover the risks for the remainder of the terms for
which premiums have been accepted. If so, there are no
real reserves at all. This is r po way to attract insurers.
The Melbourne Permanent Building Society:
Business Loss on Total Dividends Re-
July, Profit. Property. Profit. (2J p.c.). serve.
1900 .. £2614 £603 £2Oll £7,044
Profit.
1901 .. 3423 841 4264 11,308
Loss.
1902 .. 4733 10 4723 16,031
1903 .. 4460 485 3975 20,006
Capital written-down from £177,164 to
£70,866 ; £257 being added to Reserves.. 20,263
1904 .. 4012 -V- 4012 24,275
1905 .. 2617 2617 £1741 25,151
1906 .. 2874 2874 1737 26,288
(3 p.c.)
1907 .. 3244 3244 2087 27,445
Profit. (4 p.c.)
190 S .. 4012 1172 5184 2786 29,843
(5 p.c.)
1909 .. 4481 810 5291 3487 31,647
1910 .. 4119 356 4475 3493 32,629
Somewhere about the waist-line of the foregoing table a
remark appears about written-down capital ; and from
that the wise will know that the profits shown on sales
during the past three years are really only surpluses
realised in excess of written-down values. That is to
say, the losses have not been quite as great as it had
been figured that they would be. Still the be§t usually
go first, and the surpluses have been so small that it looks
very much as though the writing down in 1903 was not
severe enough. The published accounts don’t show all
the details; but these have been got together chiefly
from the directors’ reports:—
Total Profit on Properties
Sales. Sales. in Hand.
1906 .. £18,258 £1544 £21'8,837
1907 .. 21,061 1916 201,485
1908 .. 33,640 1173 173,169
1909 .. 34,260 810 142,238
1910 .. 24,743 356 116,976
The gradual shrinkage in the profit on sales is so bitterly
suggestive of a loss on some future sales that £19,156 is
now put by out of the reserves toform a contingent fund
to meet the likely deficits. The society might go on
nursing the properties, and holding the desirable subur-
ban block in idleness until the hungry hunter could be
persuaded to pay the price demanded; but, as the
directors put it, there is an “urgency, in view of the
approaching land-tax, of realising the remaining pro-
perties as promptly as possible.” Fortunately the society
hasn’t got a great deal of presumably-unproductive
vacant land left; the total property item, £116,976, is
made up this way:—House property, £112,458; vacant
land, £4518. In 1905 the figures were—Houses, £282,295 ;
land, £52,206. Altogether, then, it has been a very vigor-
ous five years of clearing out.
In 1893, when the boom trouble arrived, the
co.’s deposit and debenture liability amounted to
£435,536. The first arrangement made with the creditors
was the usual piece of extravagant folly : depositors were
to get 6 per cent, and debenture-holders 5 per cent.
Subsequently the latter had to put up with as little as 2J
per cent. A good deal of swapping was also done—pro-
perty for deposits or debentures. Thus and in other ways
the old debt had been reduced to £175,577 by 1904. Since
then further satisfactory progress has been made :
New Advances
Old Debt. Deposits, etc. to Clients.
1904 ..£175,577 £1,608 £31,325
1909 .. 126.160 17,828 100,972
1910 .. 112,065 12,507 111,224
By next year the new advances should considerably
exceed the old debt. The co. has again a substantial
business on building-society terms; but no doubt most
of it has been due to the sale of properties ; and when it
has no more properties to sell, that class of business may
be a good deal harder to get. For the old-fashioned
building society without frills has lost, much of its old
popularity since the Starr-Bowkett idea came along and
caught the eye with its embroideries.
The Modern Permanent Building and Invest-
mknt Society (Melbourne) :
Interest
on Deposits
Trading Loss on Written and De- Nominal
July, Profit. Sales. Off. bentures. Deficit.
1899 .. £2Bl £15,750 2£ per cent. £638
1900 .. 9 5,593 2| ~ 6,222
1901 .. 1591 6,548 2£ „ 11,179
1902 .. 2383 834 24 ~ 9,630
1903 .. 1822 5,377 £2OOO 3 ~ 15,185
1904 .. £2l 711 1500 3. „ . 16,975
.. ' . Loss. ~ (, 7
1905 .. 1423 ' 1,256 34 „ 19,654
Profit.
1906 .. 958 5,215 3J „ 23,911
1907 .. 255 1,397 4 „ 25,053
1908..'' 537 4,809 4J „ 29,325
Forfeited Capital, £5765.. .. '.. .. 23,560
Loss.
1909 .. 1015 2,654 5 ~ 27,229
Properties written down, £43,952 .. .. 71,181
Special exes, written off, £3047 .. .. 74,228
1910 .. 268 2,109 5 „ 76,605
That is the best that can be done with it in a single
table. The position is like this. In 1902, when the
last arrangement was made with the creditors, the
society undertook to pay 3 per cent, as a regular
thing, and an extra 2 per cent, when the profits ran
that far. The table shows the payments actually made
during each term. For the past year a full 5 per cent,
has been paid for 12 months; and apparently the full
payment for the second half of the year also been
made. On this latter point, however, things are not put
as plainly as usual. The society has been having a re-
valuation, and the first result is also in the table.
The next step will be to clear up the mess by writing
down capital. Nominally the latter is at present
£193,210, in shares fully paid to £5. This it is
proposed to write down to £96,605, in £2 10s. shares.
As the present deficit is £76,605, this writing down of
capital will give the society a reserve or contingent fund
of £20,000, ostensibly in case the assets don’t realise even
the reduced valuation. The £43,952 shown as written off
is made up as follows : . (
Old New Written
Valuation. Valuation. Off.
Society’s premises £78,000 £50,000 £28,000
Houses .. .. 14,749 9,950 4,799
Land (vacant) .. 18,635 9,235 9,400
Leaseholds .. 2,253 500 1,753
Total .. .. £113,637 £69,685 £43,952
The properties in hand, apart from the office premises,
are thus written down to £19,685, which is less than the
amount of the contingent fund, so the marking down of
capital is sufficient to write these assets off entirely.
There isn’t, therefore, anything half-hearted about the
proposed capital reduction. If the other assets, includ-
ing office premises, are worth their book value, there will
be £116,605 of assets in excess of liabilities, even though
the capital is only £96,605 ; that is to say, within a few
pence of £3 per share. The other assets are mainly
balances due on time-payment sales and on mortgages,
£105,903 in all.
Then, as to the future. Since the society has'
been- paying 5 per cent, to the old creditors it hasn’t
been able to show a profit. But, owing to the very rapid
realisation of securities, so much of the old debt has been
paid off that the co. has lately been able to arrange to
pav off the balance, borrowing the money at something
less than 5 per cent, to do it—possibly at 3 or 3£ per cent.
This is how the matter stands: —
1896. 1909. 1910.
Australian deposits, etc. .. £169,416 £32,180)
British ditto .. .. 307,689 78,136/
Mortgages, etc. .. .. 30,000 Nil 56,270
Total debt .. ~ £507,105 £110,316 £58,131
If the society can get a clear 4 per cent, on its assets, and
has to pay 3J per cent, on its debts, it will show 7 £ 5050 a
year profit, equal to a shade over 5 per cent, on its capi-
tal. No doubt 4 per cent, is a very small net return ;
but on the recent records it seems doubtful whether the
society can go much beyond it. Last year the revenue
was £9354 ; deduct £2500 -for exes, and upkeep, and
£6854 is left, which is barely 4 per cent, on even the
reduced book value of the assets. Of course, as pro-
perties are realised more profitable investments may be
got; but the prospects of very profitable new building-
society business are not brilliant. And, anyway, most of
the co.’s capital is in office premises, which may be a gilt-
edged security at the written-down value, but certainly
don’t give a glittering return—especially when the
management exes, of a co. have to be paid out of the
revenue.
* * * *
The Union Building Society (Melbourne),
formed in 1905 to take over the assets of the Second
Northern District Starr-Bowkett Building Society at a
price which, on the valuation of assets, showed a profit
or surplus of £2124 :
Written To Re- Re-
Julv, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1905 .. £2124
1906.. £1065 5 p.c. =£s6o £55 £450 2574
1907.. 1697 6 ~ ~ 1555 57 85 2659
1908 .. 2264 6 ~ „ 1654 610 3269
1909 .. 2410 7 „ „ 2068 342 3611
1910 .. 2848 7 „ „ 2247 601 4212
Profits are moving along briskly. But the next table
shows that risks are moving along briskly too :
1906. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital £25,322 £29,004 £30,953 £34,363
Terminating shares .. 157 350 603 936
Deposits, Loans, etc... 19,459 33,679 35,389 44,456
Advances ~ .. 47,749 67,818 72,428 86,109
Other assets .. .. 322 143 196 105
Thus, when the society started it had £1 18s. out at risk
for every £1 of its own capital; it has now £2 10s. for
every £l. It ought to be piling up reserves to meet the
extra losses which are bound to follow the extra risks ;
but the piling-up is not at all rapid. The society might
well have been content to push up its dividend more
slowly. Anyhow, as the div. has got to 7 percent., it ought
to stop there for a few years to give the reserves time to
grow. If they are not wanted to wipe out losses, they won’t
eat themselves. Though the deposits and other liabilities
have moved along brjskly, they are still well protected ;
and depositors, etc., have the further satisfaction of
knowing that under the rules it is forbidden to go into
debt to the extent of more than twice the amount of the
paid capital.
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co.
(Sydney)
Expenses Total
, and Out-
Aug., Income. Claims. Dividends, goings. Deficit.
1899.. £11,782 £5935 £4674 £10,609 £627
Assurance
Fund.
1900.. 11,544 5164 4737 9.901 1,016
1901.. 12,255 5517 5933 11,450 1,821
1902.. 12,566 5019 6537 11,550 2,831
1903.. 12,684 4484 6706 11,190 4,325
1904.. 13,425 5273 6689 11,962 5,788
1905.. 13,956 5467 7081 12,54? 7,196
1906.. 14,738 5871 7060 12,931 9,003
1907.. 15,919 6291 7401 13,692 11,230
1908.. 17,796 7041 8094 15,135 13,891
1909.. 18,644 7418 8375 15,793 16,742
1910.. 19,586 8291 8443 16,734 19,594
This little co. tries to fit them with insurance of all
shapes and sizes. It covers the risks of death, accident
and disease ; it will bury you if you die, and provide
medicine and a little to go on with if you are sick. It is
dear insurance, of course ; as shown above, the expenses
last year ran to a trifle more than the claims, reckoning
the 5 per cent, dividend in with the exes. In proportion to
total income, the outgoings other than claims have been
as follows for the past eight years :
190* .. £52 17 5 per cent. 1907 .. £46 9 9 per cent.
1904 .. 4916 6 ~ „ 1908 .. 45 9 8 „
1905 .. 50 14 9 ~ ~ 1909 .a. 44 18 4 ~ ~
1906 .. 47 18 0 ~ ~ 1910 .. 43 2 2 „ „
A steady reduction in the rate is thus shown since 1905.
But it 'is still high, and no doubt in some classes it is
much higher than the figures shown above, because the
Ordinary business would naturally bring the average
down a trifle. Even Ordinary business, though, may
mean a £25 policy in the case of this office. The
one thing that can be said in favor of business
on such terms is that it is better than nothing,
and if this kind of co. didn’t get it, it probably wouldn’t
be got at all. So far as most of the benefits are con-
cerned, the insurer would no doubt do better with an
ordinary friendly society “lodge.” But the “lodge”
doesn’t go into the little back streets and hunt up mem-
bers. This co. does ; and so it has its uses. Its financial
position is quite sound, as far as one can judge : it has
£10,104 in Government stock, and practically all the rest
of its funds and its capital (£4794) in mortgages and loans
on policies, chiefly the former.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society op
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Dividend
(10 p.c.) and
Bonus on
Purchases
Net (10 p.c. To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonus), serves. serves.
Jan., 1904 .. £6,829 £6,564 £265 £15.571
July, 1904 .. 6,658 6,451 207 15,778
. ian , / 8,195 7,250 945 16,723
Jan., 19(0 p rem i ums on new shares 6887 23,610
July, 1905 .. 8,410 7,188 1222 24,832
Jan'., 1906 .. 8,925 7,751 1174 26,006
Julv, 1906 .. 8,062 6,995 1067 27,073
(Hi P-c.
Bonus.)
Jan.,- 1907 .. 9,138 8,298 840 27,913
July, 1907 .. 8,809 8;251 558 28,471
Jan., 1908 .. 9,298 9,034 264 28,735
July, 1908 .. 9,697 9,043 654 29,389
Jan., 1909 .. 10,507 9,970 537 29,926
July, 1909 .. 9,388 9,531 29,783
Jan., 1910 .. 11,864 10,401 1463 31,246
July, 1910 .. 10,271 9,646 625 31,871
Some of the figures in the last line are only approximate.
It has been assumed (1) that a bonus of £570 will be
paid to employees; (2) that £330 of the customers’
bonus of 2s. 3d. in the £ will not be collected ;
and (3) that “ the usual bonus ” of £5O each will
be paid to the six directors. The society has long
since lost its “Civil Service” character: there are
probably as many shareholders who don’t draw their
money from the State as there are who do. And the
directorate is also about half and half. The capital is
only £13,884, in fully-paid £1 shares, held by no less than
6536 people ; the object, of course, is to get the fat bonus,
or rebate on purchases, and not the mere dividend on
capital. The co. owns no premises ; but it has a long
lease, and it has spent large sums in improvements : this
sura, which is being written off at the rate of £t>oo
a year, still stands at £7545. Owing to the lure of
the big bonus for cash, book debts are very
small—£76s6 altogether, mostly, no doubt, on monthly
accounts. The liabilities of all kinds amount to
£19,466, including £2542 unclaimed divs. Apparently
there is no debt of any kind to the bank : there is, in
fact, £3OOO on fixed deposit and a credit balance on
current account, but not enough to pay the dividend,
etc. In spite of the small capital, the big reserves enably
the co. to pay cash for supplies, and last half-year that
meant £1244 net in discounts— say, 5J per cent, on the
co.’s capital and reserves, which shows what a handy
thing ready cash is in a trading concern. Progress in
other respects is shown hereunder :
Propor-
Gross tion Ex-
Cash Profit on Working penses to
Receipts. Sales,etc. Expenses. Receipts.
Jan., 1900.. £67,522 £15,997 £10,158 15’04 p.c.
July, 1907.. 102,019 25,272 15,262 14'96 ~
Jan., 1908.. 113,173 27,800 17,290 15-28 ~
July, 1908.. 115,130 28,354 17,106 14'86 „
Jan., 1909.. 125,908 31,821 19,983 'B7 „
July, 1909.. 122,629 31,063 19,929 16'20 „
Jan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15'90 „
July, 1910.. 126,780 32,600 20,272 15‘99 „
On the turnover for the past year the net profit was Si
per cent. ; but a bonus of 11J per cent, is possible through
only about two-thirds of the purchases being made by
shareholders who pay cash—the onlj 7 people entitled to
the rebate.
The Adelaide Co-operative Society :- •
Divi- Writ-
dend Bonus on ten Re-
Profits. (4 p.c.). Purchases. Off. serves.
Aug., 1903.. £2286 £720 3§ p.c. =£1459 £242 £1234
Feb., 1904.. 2433 704 3ij „ „ 1448 254 1261
Aug., 1904.. 2529 719 3§ ~ „ 1385 364 1322
Feb., 1905.. 2680 754 3$ „ „ 1454 299 1495
Aug., 1905.. 2399 780 3$ ~ ~ 1531 20l 13^2
Feb., 1906.. 3128 789 3j} ~ „ 1560 523 1088
Aug., 1906.. 3150 808 3J „ „ 1597 423 1910
Feb., 1907.. 2898 845 3jj ~ „ 1590 282 2091
Aug., 1907.. 3989 877 4J ~ ~ 1955 573 26/o
Feb., 1908.. 4138 935 5 ~ „ 2385 610 2883
Aug., 1908.. 4737 1007 5 „ „ 2790 581 3242
Feb., 1909.. 4255 1052 5 „ ~ 3003 344 0098
Aug., 1909.. 4994 1103 5 ~ ~ 3182 632 31/5
Feb., 1910.. 4483 1179 5 „ „ 3253 294 2932
Aug., 1910.. 5796 1250 5 „ ~ 3500 464 3514
The figures in the last line are approximate. It has been
assumed that £2OO will be appropriated for directors
fees, tax, etc. ; and the total amount of the dividend and
the bonus has been guessed at. It isn’t a satis-
factory way to present things; but it can’t be
helped, because of the peculiar manner in which
the accounts are submitted. The fact is, the
society was started on a brotherly-love basis, over 40
years ago, and it gets old methods with difficulty.
Until a year or so back even the auditors’ fees weren’t
charged up with the ordinary expenses ; they were voted
subsequently as an honorarium. And the directors’ fees
are still treated in that way. The capital also isn’t fixed ;
the shareholders can pull out when they like. The other
things mentioned don’t matter much; but this
last does matter. You can’t build up a business
very far when your shareholders are liable to drop
in any moment and want all their money back. One by-
product of this was that for very many years the man-
agement set its face against reserves ; as shareholders
could draw out at any moment, it was held that it wasn’t
right to put by money which they would forfeit if they
did go out. The society has got over that amiable eccen-
tricity more or less, and it needs to get over some others.
At present, having to be prepared for demands to
the full extent of its capital, it has to keep in hand
large amounts in liquid assets; and it is quite
conceivable that, even then, it could not do what it has
undertaken to do. The basis wants bringing up to date.
If the capital were fixed —say, at £50,000 —the co.’s
position would be much safer, a better return might be
got for the money, and, given good management, the
shares would be just as easily converted into cash. And
it might also be possible to give the customers something
more than the very modest 5 per cent. The Sydney
society pays its shareholders 10 per cent, and gives a
bonus or rebate of Hi per cent.
• * * *
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S. Aus.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1906.. £4040 12| per cent. =£3600 £440 £9,258
Dec., 1906.. 3931 10 „ „ 2800 1131 10,389
June, 1907.. 6196 12| „ „ 3600 2596 12,985
Dec., 1907.. 5912 12£ „ „ 3600 2312 15,297
June, 1908.. 5971 20 „ „ 5600 371 15,668
Dec., 1908.. 5407 10 „ „ 2800 2607 18,275
June, 1909.. 1420 5 ~ ~ 1400 20 18,295
Dec., 1909.. 3801 8 ~ „ 2240 1561 19,856
June, 1910.. 3714 10 ~ ~ 2800 914 20,770
The cheeky little marine gamecocks of S. Aus. are prac-
tically all in the pen of this old-established co., which
also does a good deal in the way of lightering—a busi-
ness of which there isn’t as much now as there was be-
fore Adelaide got a harbor that is something more than a
hole at the end of a creek. How much revenue the co.
writes off against depreciation isn’t clear; but it is evi-
dently considerable. Four years ago “12 steam tugs and
launches ” stood in the books at £30,060 ; now “ 13 steam
tugs and launches" stand in the same place at£26,927.
And, in the same period, “19 hulks and barges as
lighters” have been written down from £21,934 to
£18,228. Or the results can be looked at this way ;
June, 1906. June, 1910.
Liquid assets .. ..£10,973 £26,651
Liabilities .. .. 2,431 1,558
Surplus .. £8,542 £25,093
So, though a dividend running up to 20 per cent, has
been paid, and though a trifle has been put into tug-plant
and another trifle into slip property, £16,551 has been
dropped into the stocking in four years. That isn’t
necessarily net surplus profit; some of it may represent
wear and tear of plant, and be money put by. to replace
partially worn-out arks. But, making even a very liberal
allowance on that score, the performance is wonderfully
good, and shows what a sweet time S. Aus. has been hav-
ing. There is a doubt, certainly, whether, under normal
conditions, the co. will do as well as it used to do, owing
to the construction of the outer harbor aforementioned ;
and in that connection the shrinkage of the profits dur-
ing the past three terms is worth noting.
*•*■**
The men in the Australian Bank of Commerce
probably feel like seamen who have been saved from a
wreck after running short of provisions. It looked, at
one time, as though the old A.J.S. would go down with
all hands; but general-manager A. P. Stew-art beached
the ship, and knocked up another vessel which is as good
as the A.J.S. ever was. Naturally the crew feel grateful
to him ; and one day last week they met and presented
him with various valuable goods. There was a’ tinle
when A. P. Stewart was, reckoned a hard man, because
he didn’t hand out many favors ; but the staff believes
now that he didn’t do it, not because he hadn’t a mind
to, but because there weren’t any favors 6n the premises
to hand out.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Accident, Fire and General
Insurance Co. (Sydney) is going to join in the scramble
for more capital. The present co. is a float-off from the
Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co., which took
£15,000 in fully-paid £1 shares for the goodwill; and
whether the connection was woith the money can be
gathered from the fact that the net premium income
last year was £7038. More capital is certainly desirable ;
but, before it is issued, some of the present capital,
represented by a purely paper asset, ought to be written
off. With that done, the prospects are very good.
*■**-*
After all the criticism levelled at Bowron Bros.
Export and Trading Co., Limited, the position is as fol-
low’s (a) The co. has been duly registered; (b) the
figures submitted in the prospectus have been verified by
three leading firms of accountants in Wellington and
Christchurch (M.L.); (c) the new’ company is in no way
concerned directly or indirectly with the income tax


The Pacific Cable Board
(01 which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
USA, GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES: —U.K., 3/- ; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
j n Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books maybe
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4 id. per-word, “VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland. -
CAMPBELL
Gas Engine & Plant
A/so O/L ENGINES .
Highest Efficiency.
Agents for Victoria and W.A.—
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[2
' Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
made by R. and J. Diek, Glasgow, is the only genuine,
reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’ name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, who
carry large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [2
• * • *
, The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, in its
October, ’OB, number, comments upon the last report of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited as
follows “To have completed £1,278,034 of new business
is a really splendid achievement for any office, but for a
comparatively young one (having been established in
1873) the figures are of intense interest, and indicate the
force of the power which the Colonial Mutual has attained
in the insurance world.’’*
* * * *
WOOD PILE has come to stay in Australia.
A pipe that is not subject to the action of minerals in soil
or water is peculiarly adapted for local conditions. Puplic
bodies, mining cos., etc., have not been slow to recognise
the fact. The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Balmain,
Sydney.* • .
* * * ; »
Patents. — Have you an idea worth patenting '!
If so, write to Grifßith and Hassell, registered Patent
Attorneys for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, £0 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs.
Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”* * #
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability,
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it oan
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * . . *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe,
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
ail purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu.
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * - *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* . * ■* *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES,
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
cases; (d) the Maoriland Board has been strengthened by
thaaddition of Messrs. George Jameson and G. T. Booth,
men who for years have been associated iVifch successful
M.L. enterprises. the old prospectus was* however*
withdrawn, Whether it waSa necessary thing to do or not,
and another Will-be issued, wiith the backing, hot only of
good names, but of excellent figures also.
General-Manager Delprat,'of the Broken Hill
Prop., has given a fillip to the agitation for an export
dutv on crude ore and concentrates, of which hundreds
of thousands of tbhs are being shipped to Getmah and
Belgian smelters. At once the Freetrade papers cry,
“You’ll ruin the poor miner! You’ll shut out the
foreign buyer, and the poor miner won’t be able to get
as nmch for his ore.” The same Freetraders had the
same solicitude for the poor miner when an hupo™
duty on coke was proposed 20 years ago. “ You’ll shut
out the foreigner, and the poor miner will have to pay
more for his smelting.” Still, the duty went on, an Aus-
tralian coke industry was established, and to-day the
poor miner can get coke at about one-fourth the price he
had to pay 22 years ago.
* * * *
The present agreement between men and cos.
at Broken Hill runs out at the end of the year. But, on
appearances so far, there will be no trouble. The cos.
won’t ask for a wage-reduction, and the men, not being
'this time misled by a Tom Mann, know that, if they asked
for more pay, several of the cos. would promptly follow
the B. H. Prop., and shut up shop till the metal markets
improve.
*•* * *
At the Broken Hill South Extended an east
crosscut put out at the 930 ft. level to intersect the
southern continuation of the South Blocks zinc lode
(the existence of which had previously been proved by
drill), has opened up a fair-sized body of solid ore ; and
now all the mine managers in Broken Hill are being
invited to go down and look at it. For many months
past reports have been published in which reference was
made in a large way to rich sulphides, of irreproach-
able assay value and limitless extent. During that
time the underground workings were guarded like a
two-up school. Shares bobbed up and down serenely
enough till the last card had to be played, and then
it was found that, instead of the rich silver-lead lode the
public had been led into believing was there, all the fuss
had been about nothing more extraordinary than the
southern continuation of the hard, forbidding zinc lode
which the South Blocks developed in their Block 5 shaft.
The level on which this zinc shoot was found in Block 5
shaft is 900 ft., but that is actually only about 10ft. above
the level on which the ore was cut in the South Extended
crosscut. Moreover, it was to intersect this lode that the
diamond-drill was used. As Block 5 shaft is only about
a couple of hundred yards away from the South Extended
shaft, it was a pretty sure thing that ore of some kind
would be met at a certain point east from the South Ex-
tended shaft. Had the public remembered this in the
first place, it would not have been so ready to bite at the
shares.
The South Extended has only another three-
pence to call up, representing approximately £BOOO. Its
main shaft is a smail one, totally inadequate for hauling
zinc ore from a thousand feet and more (because the east
crosscut has only touched the top of the ore shoot). And
before any ore can be treated a mill will have to be
erected. Another reconstruction may be avoided, but on
what terms? It must be remembered that mining zinc
ore (with hardly any lead or silver in it) from a great
depth will prove a much more expensive operation than
treating tailings by a flotation process.
■k- vr**
The B. H. Junction directors are between the
Devil and the deep sea. If they don’t resume mining
and milling operations they will have to face reconstruc-
tion, and if they do restart production they won’t have
anything left to reconstruct on. A spasmodic lift was given
to the shares the other day by the discovery in an old
crushed-in stope of a hatful of very rich carbonate ore.
The man who secured the assay sample took his life in
his hand when he did it, and naturally he didn’t stay
there long enough to see how much of the rich stuff was
left! There are thousands of tons of rich Sulphide ore in
these old broken levels, but how to get the stuff out at a
profit is a problem that has caused the manager sleepless
nights and much vexation of spirit. There are some old
stopes on these levels through which it wouldn’t be safe
for a bird to fly. #
Marsh’s shaft, through which the major portion
of the ore that is being milled by the British Broken Hill is
being hauled, would be a great comfort to the Junction
North just now did that co. only possess it. As things are,
it was very unfortunate for the Junction North that
when diamond-drilling for the lost lode was being carried
on from the 1134 ft. level, the only indication of ore was
got on the -foot-wall side, or on the British boundary,
near Marsh’s shaft. It maybe that the Junction North
lode has turned over and gone away on an easterly dip.
If so, the deepening of Marsh’s shaft is a project which it
might pay the British directors to carry out^
Main Ridge Deep Lead, Rocldey (N.S.W.),
holds its head high above the ordinary duffer because its
average of sdvvt. 22gr. from 169 tons is at least something
to go on with. But the co. is in 22,000 shares ;so it will
have to speed up a bit and treat wash at a faster pace
than one ton per hour if dividends are to be paid. Mount
David, in the same district, is doing a deal of prospecting
just now. An alluvial shaft is down 120 ft. ;itis a wet
hole, and sinking is slow work. Sometimes alluvial leads
tail off into very deep country which merges into carbon-
iferous sandstone. Lignite was cut in both shafts at
Mount David, so the next thing to turn up may be
a coal seam. As an instance of this kind of thing, the
Wild Oat lead at Clermont (Queensland) may be men-
tioned.
* * • * *
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), issued its half-
yearly report, the other day, and, as usual, didn’t impart
much information. The official report says there is a
“ considerable” quantity of ore above No. 3 level and a
“huge” block of virgin ground between Nos. 3 and 4
levels, which lemarks are too indefinite to be of much
value. There are several things to consider : (1) Can the
co. treat the sulphides at a profit? (2) Does£7ooo reserve
fund allow of much experimenting (Oobar Gold Mines
had £70,000 and spent most of it, and couldn’t solve the
problem)? (3) The ore in the bottom levels is admittedly
very hard and the stamps light—can the output be main-
tained? Another item given prominence in the report is
that the extraction averaged as high as 76 per cent, for
the last two months. It is nothing prodigious; and it
would have been as well to mention where the ore came
from. If from the upper levels, it explains the compara-
tively good extraction at once. But it would give no
idea of what can be done in future.
* •* * *
Cobar Gladstone has had a muster of share-
holders to decide about an option over the property
asked for by W. J. Hogan. The offer was to work the
mine unrestrictedly for 12 months, and then W. Hogan
might give £20,000 for it. He didn’t give the North
Oobar crowd as liberal an option over the Occidental some
year or so back as he vainly wanted the Gladstone crowd
to give him now. 'Gladstone has sent out some rich ore
fcertaihlyi blit the talk that it has the Great 'Gobar lode is
merely giiessing. The ore, so far, has been in small
bunches, ahd there is nothing to suggest that there is an,V
change brtewihg. The shaft is down over 25Qft.
* * * *
Queen Bee, Cobar, couldn’t get suspensioh last
month, so had to. put men on. They are how doing
some prospecting in the bottom level, with the hope of
striking something ; and there is a chanc'e, too. But
why don’t they sink the shaft?
* * * + i
Cobar Copper (old Aoung Australian and
Mount Pleasant) has nailed Sheets of iron ov'er the door
and window openings; so the co. is evidently after a sus-
pension. The elosing-dowh is ill-timed, as the men
were getting well in with the drive towards the Young
Australian shaft, their objective. This has been another
instance of weird management. The machinery was
pulled down and shifted from the Young Australian shaft
and put on the Mount Pleasant about 900 ft. away, and
then they drove back to the Young Australian shaft.
Just when it was possible to strike something the men
were knocked off. Any other crowd would have pawned
the door-mat to have keptgoing a little longer.
* * * *
Crowl Creek (N.S.W.) was lately called upon
to show cause why it should be allowed to hang oh to its
leases. The Warden’s Court was told that it cost about
£ll5 to produce a ton of copper just before the mine
closed, about three or four years ago. The present
crowd never tried to produce it at any price, however.
Later on, if the Government builds a railway to Nytnagee
a glowing prospectus may be issued; and then some
unkind person will probably look up the evidence.
* * * *
Cobar Silver Peak has closed down the con-
centrating plant. The glory was short lived. The co. is
now cutting down the shaft and bagging a little ore as a
preliminary to Heaven knows what.
* * -K *
Principal Westralian results for August:—
Average
Tons. Yield. Per Ton. Profit.
Boulder .. .. 19,048 48,905 51/4 24,665
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,622 41,047 41/10 20,017
Kalgurli .. .. 11,060 28,490 51/6 15,879
Gwalia 13,510 23,659 35/- 9,186
Associated Northern 2,820 6,483 45/11 2,960
Ridge 2,400 6,425 53/6 2,807
South Kalgurli .. 9,350 12,318 26/4 2,621
Fingall 10,887 16,582 30/6 2,603
Oroya-Black Range.. 4,600 9,254 40/2 2,181
Links 10,902 13,574 24/10 1,727
Mararoa .. .. 2,614 4,423 33/9 1,723
Lake View-Star .. 12,070 14,091 23/4 1,711
Gwalia South .. 2,432 4,619 37/11 1,601
Burbanks .. .. 1,788 3,830 42/10 1,200
Hainault .. .. 6,150 7,716 25/1 1,026
Chaffers .. .. 4,413 6,719 30/5 698
Ida H. .. .. 1,300 3,317 51/- 525
Associated ~ .. 10,833 14,751 27/2 328
Boulder No. 1 .. 2,116 3,003 28/4 316
Lake View .. .. 9,385* 1,580 3/4 390
Marvel Loch .. .. 1,300 2,190 33/8 274
Sirdar 1,300 f 1,112 16/3 256
Horseshoe .. .. 23,867 34,043 27/7 160
North W. Feather .. 2,275 2,462 21/7 108
Perseverance.. .. 18,138 16,696 25/4 1.576 J
Ingliston Extended.. 840 2,300 54/9 230
Vivian 4,006 4,171 20/9 255 J
Cumberland .. .. 307 ,1,257 81/10 566
Northern .. .. 8,204 8,570 20/10 63
Menzies Consolidated 2,128 3,025 28/5 533 J:
Westralia Waihi .. 1,230 1,034 16/9 5161
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 21,945* 5,359 4/11 2,788
t Long tons. J Loss. * Tailings.
•rt * * *
In the midst of the prevailing gloom at Norse-
man over the collapse of the Waihi, the Princess Royal
and other mines, there is a glimmer of hope thrown out
in lastest reports from the Mararoa. Below the No. 7 level,
the danger-zone of Norseman reefs, a fair body of ore,
worth 335. a ton, has been reported. This is south of the
original winze, so Norseman is feeling good.
* * * *•
Shareholders of the Golden Mile will soon say
“ Rats !” when “ reserves ” are mentioned. The Horse-
shoe, after many assertions of lOdwt. ore, cannot get
much over 6dwt., and every month or so a breakdown in
plant makes an excuse for low tonnages. However, when
the shaft gets down where it ought to have been two
years ago—to the 2000 ft.—there may be plenty to feed the
new works. The Associated, not to be outdone by Horse-
shoe, boldly withdraws half a million tons of ore from
sight. A flood —in one of the driest seasons known on the
fields—and a fall of earth in one of the stopesare used to
cover the circumstance. Of course the only remedy for
loss of ore is to put up more plant, and this is now being
done.
* * * *
Charles Grant is in Sydney, giving the Flag
(W. A.) proposition a shove along. Grant probably knows
the Phillips River field better than any other man, and
has looked at the figures from both ends and all sides,
and he can’t see anything less than a 35 per cent, return
on capital if he can get the money to add a concentrating
plant to the present equipment.
* * * *
Bendigonians gasped on finding Clarence
United being bailed up by an outsider for not working
its 18 acres on the Paddy’s Gully line. They didn’t weep
over the Lansell loss of the Sheepshead lease, but to try to
.dock the Clarence in this way was too bad! Bendigonians
have been putting £lO,OOO or so a year into the Clarence
workings on the Moon line, and quite forgot that the
Paddy's Gully lease was not consolidated. The Warden
was sympathetic, so the co. is to go to work at once or—
well, that will rest with Peter Mcßride, who is to be
appealed to by the dissatisfied applicant for forfeiture.
The applicant’s idea is that he ought to get the ground ;
it will do him no good merely to awaken the Clarence to
a sense of duty. Much is to be said for him, as fully a
two-mile stretch of the Paddy’s Gully line has been per-
mitted to lie idle for years. “Shepherds, beware; the
wolves are about! ”is the notice placarded on one Ben-
digro office.
* * * *
The very latest Victorian alluvial co., the South
Berry, Creswick, brings out its report just when Joe
English, chairman of the Madame Berry, passes out.
W. B. Squire, an old hand on the field, fashioned the
South Berry into'financial shape, and it now flourishes as
a 30,000-share co. with a good market position.
Scrip is not often seen, for the little syndi-
‘ cate connected with Alec Peacock’s office sticks
well together, believing that Squire knows what he is
about when on alluvial. So far the little syndicate has
every reason to hold fast. The co. got on to good wash
at once; it also picked up cheap plant, and did
not have to rattle it to pieces before the first wash-
ing-up indicated that there was loz. ground
about. That known, the rest was easy. Shares in
reserve were used to buy a permanent plant. The ground
was so dry and easy that the bit won from gold and a
few light calls enabled Squire to write: “It only re-
quires an adequate plant to ensure a fair dividend-paying
mine for years from the alluvial workings.” That this
treasure should have been left neglected on the Berry lead
seems too good to be true. Still, no one ever thought
the Cathcart had a £5 rise in it, or the Glenfine South a
£IQ buck ; so why, not a possible gamble in South Berry ?
. Creswick badly wants a flutter.
* * * *
Ballarat North having its own prospecting
association, Ballarat East is chipping in on the same
lines with a co. with £15,000 of working capital. The
scheme is to try to pick up the reefs that fed such leads
as th'e old Lady Barkty, Ashe’s, and Navy Jack. The grpund
to be tested covers the extension of what is known as the
Little Bendigo field. Geologically, the country is similar
to that district, and the reefs are traversed by dykes
Svhich, ih other parts of the field, have made for rich gold.
Little Bendigo mines on three lines of reef yielded about
£oo,ooooz. of gold; from the ,Temperance .mine alone
130,000 tons yielded 50,00002. Of late years the, district
has been as much neglected as the sifle-lines at Bendigo,
and it is only because the Star of the East and other
Sebastopol Plate&u,claims hav'e given tip the ghost that
the tradespeople of the city find that, if they are to keep
Ballarat from relapsing into a mere country township,
they must look for fresh mi nek. Hence these prospecting
* * t
Charters Towers prhdu'c'ed £54, for August;
an'd as only 13,458 tons were crushed by the hulls, it
means just over £4 per ton average extraction. Yet the
mill return (including'concentrates) is slightly under £3
per ton ; so the Towers is depending considerably on the
cyaniding ol old and new tailings. The Brilliant Ex-
tended works the lowest grade stone, and its No. 20,
shortly to he opened, will be the deepest on the field.
Light mineral stone in the sink, anti the capricious nature
of the mine, which Only commenced to paV dividends ih
its old age, leave much to be desired. Still, the opening
of No. 20 in a mine that supplies one-third of the tonnage
crushed on the Northern field is ah event of some conse-
quence, and it is to be hoped that prospects will speak
utt. Last month’s profit was £1912.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, reports a
crushing of 988 tons for £2626. It is intended to sink a
bit deeper in the hope that the reef will improve in value.
Some prospecting will also be done on the adjoining Day
Dawn Block and Wyndham lease, which appears to have
been acquired on behalf of Mills. The latter is also hold-
ing a prospecting venture at Ravenswood Junction, so
possibly by the time the parent is worked out there may
be an infant ready to more or less take up the running.
* * * *
The Etheridge (Q.) Co., which J. S. Reid is
pushing off in London on behalf of the Chillagoe people,
will be in 135,000 shares, according to last advices, and
£25,000 in cash will be dropped into the Chillagoe Co.’s
pocket to fill the hole made there in developing the
claims, etc. As in the case of the Mungana, the Chillagoe
Co. will also hang on to enough shares to make sure that
the ore will go to the right place for treatment.
* * * *
McGregor, Cloncurry (Q.), is now whispering
into the ear of Kidston that he really ought to put up
half the money to build the 26 miles of railway necessary
to connect the mine with the Hampden-Cloncurry
branch. The total cost would be about £60,000. If the
co. can’t whisper loud enough, a road will be made and
either traction engines or a Renard road train bought.
* * * *
Manager Pemble, who has taken charge of
Kulamadau, on Woodlark Island (Papua), thinks a por-
tion of the workings will require careful handling to
avoid a smash, and he finds the stopes rather heavily
depleted. The profit for nine weeks’ work was £2312, so
the finances should he on the strong side; but on the out-
look the directors will he wise to stick to their cash, and
pass by the very tempting chance to pay a dividend.
Of the 300,000 shares in Mount Lyell Blocks,
124,549 were knocked down by an auctioneer in Mel-
bourne last week, after having been forfeited for a 6d.
call. Price, a shade above the call. Tom Harvey lifted
50,000 and Fred Keats took 30,000. So the gentle public
did not see any bargains at the sale as of yore. Tom
Harvey made a good rise out of Blocks on the
“buck” of 1906, when he brought manager Fergusson
from Berringa to treat the copper clays. A gold man,
Fergusson answered expectations, helped by the price to
which metals went. Twodivs. came in 1906—none since.
A crowd in London somehow got the idea that the Blocks
was a big mine, thinking, perhaps, that the North
Lyell shoot of ore was fluking in to the claim: so
they gathered in all the 300,000 shares, except an
odd 10,000 or 15,000. The crash in copper brought
down the house of cards; and Saturday’s sale
represents a bit of J. Bull’s loss on the deal. The Blocks
always had a value as a position claim. Frank Gee Duff
persuaded W. R. Wilson to buy into the co. practically
on its possibilities. Death ended “ W.R.’s ” earthly deal-
ings, and his executors got out of the co. at the psycho-
logical moment, giving Tom Harvey the opening to come
in later on to make his little bit. Now he is going for the
double, apparently on the off-chance of the pitch of the
North Lyell shoot of ore being so much towards the
Blocks’ boundary at depth.
* * * *
For its latest four weeks Mount Lyell (Tas.)
has to make excuses for ah unusually poor run. Only
492 tons of blister were produced, containing 486 tons
copper, 44,4620 z. silver and 9050 z. gold. The first month
of the half-year gave 718 tons of blister, and the present
492 tons is a big slump from that standard. The ex-
planation, that some of the principal working faces are
supplying poorer material, doesn’t give much comfort.
During the last month’s run it must have required some-
thing like 57 tons in place of the usual 47 tons of ore to
produce a ton of blister, and the extra 10 tons, at the
moderate working cost of 16s. per ton, is equivalent to £8
per ton on blister. Even Mount Lyell cannot afford that
kind of thing. There are 1,200,000 shares in the co., so if
the output averages 8000 tons a year, the profit on each
ton of blister has to satisfy 150 shares and has to be £3O
per ton to give 4s. a share. Even if the output could
swell to 10,000 tons of copper, the profit on blister would
have to be £24 per ton to give a moderate 4s. on shares,
and shares are worth over 30s. in the market.
* * * *
The old Thames field (M.L.) is in a bad way.
That old reliable stayer, the Waiotaki, after some 25
years of steady dividends and one or two gorgeous
bursts, is about on its last legs in the present workable
ground. Everything depends on the results from the
deep-levels crosscut now being driven from the 1000 ft.
plat of the Mav Queen shaft. So far the mines have been
almost untouched below 600 ft. This level will unwater
another 400 ft., and there are great hopes of some more
big patches. The crosscut has lately been held up
through an inflow of dangerous gas, the curse of the
Thames field. It had previously cut two makes of quartz,
one carrying gold. The latter is in the ground reserved
round the shaft by the Government, which subsidises the
drive. There will be some high gambling later on, if the
continuation of the crosscut lays bare more reefs.
-*■***
Ross Goldfields, Ltd. (M.L.), which started
with a great flourish of bottles not many months ago,
is already up against old Anxiety. The co. was formed
to work deep ground on the alluvial flats at Ross, on the
west coast of the South Island. It had a £5OOO subsidy
from the Government, and the assistance, as managing
director, of J. Grirnmond, who made a fortune out of the
ground next door ; but the capital and directors were
mostly from Christchurch, which knows mighty little
about practical gold working. Against expert advice
pumps were put in which were soon found unequal to the
work. Then the electric power failed, and the pumps
were swamped. Next a shareholders’ meeting changed
the old directors, and there seems nothing in sight but
the necessity for more capital and reconstruction. Shares
have consequently flopped. * *
Waihi Grand Junction (M.L.) is excavating for
an additional 60 head of stampers. This will make a
total of 100 head. Some new tube mills are also being
put in, and it is estimated by the manager that his
monthly output will be increased to between 9000 and
10,000 tons.
* * * *
There is a faint glimmer of hope for M.L. Pre-
mier lou Ward. Replying to a deputation which
wanted him to make a huge railway splash, he has
plucked up courage to say: “No; we are borrowing
quite fast enough now.”
* * *. *,
Fiji has its rubber plantation with a capital of
£50,000 in 2s. shares. Bull got it, or rather Bull’s Mary
Ann' got it, for the 2s.' rubber stock belongs to the domes-
tic servant’s savings by natural rights. In 1908 the plan-
tation yielded a ton of cocoa, and there are 160 acres under
bananas, 100 acres under rubber, cocoa and bananas, and
150 acres unde? rubber and bananas. It'looks nearly all
bananas and little rubber. Banana revenue is
estimated at £2625; butin 1917-18 rubbershould, according
£o the prospectus, yield a profit of £11,200 and cocoa
£2500, bringing with the banana that faileth not a ne,t
£15,200. The vendors got 200,000 shares for all these
anticipations, and if all the estimates are as reliable as
the banana figures and the figures relating to cocoanut,
then the British domestic will probably be disap-
pointed. There are said to be 100 cocoanut plants,
“some in bearing,” but the palms of Viti Eevu arq
plagued by a local parasite which could destroy even a
rubber prospectus'. “Estates’’are a mountain of stong
with good flats below. Sold for £1 pey acre five years
ago, the co. pays over £lO an acre. Yet anyone who
wants the, pick of rubber land can get it in Papua for the
asking. Why, then,, pay so much for a stone ridge in
Fiji? ,
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trhcks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cvanogen gases. Used on Mort s
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings ; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell «
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipes and boilers with Bell’s Asbesios
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging;
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties tb
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Strfeet,
Sydney.*
* * * *,
The most modern-, simple and effective Vactiutoi
Slimes Table is the “ Wilfley.” ft is continuous, and Con-
sists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged in a
tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The drum is
Covered with a filter cloth supported on grooves on the
(drum, which are connected by means of holes to the
interior to allow the liquid to be withdrawn. Through
the trunnions at the ends of the drum the vacuum pipe
passes to the interior. This pipe connects with the
interior of the drum, through which the. liquid and air
are withdrawn by means of a vacuum pump. The filtered
slime is removed by a simple apparatus placed at or
below the level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly
the cake is removed the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp ready to
receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the sucking in
of air, and consequent loss of vacuum between the time
the cake is removed and a fresh one is forming. The
• residual liquid in the slime cake is removed by distribu-
ting water over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owihg
to the fact that the filter is circular in form, it will be
seen that it is continuous in operation, and has no com-
plication of valves to get out of order; furthermore;
work is being done continuously during the whole revolu-
tion of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* I 2


Take a
Tip—
Charles Heidsieck
Champagne
Can’t Be Beat.^
EXPERIENCED TRAVELLERS.
Among commercial men and experienced travel-
lers it has become a habit to carry a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy in their travelling bag, for they know
that change of water and food often brings on
colic and diarrhoea, which gives a great deal pf
pain and suffering. These ailments are of HO con-
sequence when this remedy is at hand, but very
often resuhrin serious disorders when it is not. It
is always better to buy a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy before leav-
ing home, for it cannot be obtained on board train
or steamer.* . -
OBUR
ll©
Between washin’ and tunnin’
in-and-out peggin’ up and takin’
down clothes all day long, 1
gets pretty tired l can tell yer
by th’ time as my day’s work
is done, and when 1 gets ’ome
th’ very first thing 1 does is
put th’ kettle on th’ fire and
makes a cup o’ tea f’r myself—
it’s about th’ only thing as 1
knows that’ll keep yer pecker up.
1 uses Robur No. J Grade
■— yer needn’t look surprised,
surely a woman can spend ar
extra thrupence a week on
herself when she works ’ard
like 1 does —do you know, some
o’ th’ ’ouses 1 goes to they only
uses th’ No. 3 Grade, and it’s
not at all bad, but, as l says
before, a cup o’ th’ very best is
what 1 likes, an’ 1 thinks 1
deserves it too, don’t you?
The Washerwoman.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 27, 1910.
My Dear Arini,—
Three million tons of steel swinging at anchor
in our harbor, and over a thousand blue-eyed,
fair-haired sailor-men swinging in our streets !
(I’m not quite sure of the weight of steel; my
scales are out of repair.) Sydney welcomed the
Dutchmen as it does distinguished visitors—tried
to over-feed and over-tire them, all in the way of
hospitality of course. Massed on a lawn for pre-
sentation to the hostess of the hour, a batch of
the blond army is an interesting study. The
purity of the race is so evident that
they look more English than does a like
contingent from the Powerful and the
Challenger. Norman, Roman, Dane and Saxon
admixtures make our own men look rather a job
lot. There is the further circumstance that to
England have come all sorts and conditions of re-
fugeesforcentutiespast. The Briton hasneverbeen
particular with whom he allied him (or her) self in
wedlock. The Van de Weyers and Keppels are
good old English families now ; they were good old
Dutch families when William of Orange took
up the sceptre of the Stuarts. German, Polish
and French Jews have been intermarrying with
Scotch, Irish and English Christians since the
Dark Ages. A Jewish family need but have
cash and a certain elementary culture, and it may
contract alliances with the proudest families of
the United Kingdom, as witness the case of
Lord Dalmeny, who is half Primrose and half
Rothschild.
Actually the wealthiest and noblest born Brit-
ishers do not jib, seemingly, at marriage with
“cullud pussons,” provided the latter have some
claims to position in their own country. Lady
Anne Coventry, a daughter of the famous house
of Coventry, married one Dhuleep Singh of India
without rousingany particular comment. Circum-
stances have combined to preserve the Dutch
from this sort of calamity, and they have done a
good deal to preserve themselves from anything
of the sort.
At only one period in their history, when
the religious troubles of the early part of
the 17th century were raging, did visitors
flock to them in considerable numbers. The
visitors they got then were mostly religious
refugees, and of the same stock, broadly
speaking, as their tolerant hosts. For the rest,
the Dutchman, through all his wanderings
during all the centuries, has been concerned,
in a very dogged fashion indeed, to keep
white. And a better advertisement of the policy
could hardly be conceived than the clear,
skinned, clear-eyed young men that have been
thronging our streets for the past week.
A truly dreadful example of the opposite
policy was afforded by the American tars who
were here recently. Every race in Europe looked
out of their swart, square faces. And con-
stantly one glimpsed the high cheek-bones that
told of North American Indian descent, and with
horrible frequency one noted the sallow skin and
full lips, eloquent of a near ancestor named Caesar
or Uncle ’Rastus. A comparison between the
Dutchmen and the Yanks is, in its way, a whole
sermon on the vital urgency of a well-enforced
white Australia doctrine.
Hostesses are delighted at the punctiliousness
of their Dutch guests. The officer, senior or
junior, leaves a lovely young thing, who is obvi-
ously adoring him, to go across the lawn and renew
acquaintance with some solid, stolid person with
one long gold tooth and a hat like an old play-
ground, whom he met yesterday. It looks as if
Holland expected every man to do his duty, irre-
spective of his own feelings, and that every man
fulfils the expectation even though he does thereby
disenjoy himself enormously.
4t Rose Bay, on the Golf Club hill, where
the earth is nailed down to keep it from
blowing away, Mr. and Mrs. George Earp gave
an At Home (in the wind) to the Dutchmen. The
Earps came to Sydney some two years ago from
Newcastle, and settled at Wolseley-road, Double
Bay. He is of some importance in the coal
industry; she is a pretty young woman, white-
faced and dark-eyed, with a nice hand on the
piano, a good voice in song and considerable
taste in frocking. Her more important posses-
sion, a quiverful of attractive children, played
through the grey and windy pastoral. Gold braid,
and Dutch flag and anthem, and English spoken
academically in foreign accents—the trail of the
friendly invasion was over it all, and the new
hostess must have been gladdened by the success
of the toenadering—which is the nearest I can
get in Dutch to entente cordiale.
Somebody suggested that one might look 28
though really 41 by swallowing radium; and
some letters ago, when I wrote of the possibility
of the Queen Mother and one or two other dis-
tinguished ladies having done it, I might have
added Mrs. Willsallen, senior, to the small list.
With her slight, round, 20-year-old figure, her
unveiled, debutante hat and her pretty frock, she
was one of the wonders of the Earp At Home,
throwing her own daughters into the shade of the
back verandah. By tne way, the black eyes of
one of those daughters were simply shattering to
the defences of the invaders. Blue usually goes
down before black. Personally, I like a man or
woman as black as a pot. (Now, can’t you see, in
a vision, all the blond Dutch eating their hearts
out?)
Another pleasant recognition of our neighbors
from the north was the reception given on the grass
plot at Parliament House by the Premier and
Mrs. Wade. Somebody’s intimate knowledge of
Dutch was shown by the word “ Welkom ”
burning in waratahs over the gateway. As the
same guests had came along to all these “welkom-
lng ’ functions, they were quite chummy by the
time Mrs. Wade (in a beautiful grey hat, with a
pink rose twining up the wide brim, and a
white embroidery frock) got off the grass
and went inside the Hall of Wisdom for tea.
Only a few persons stayed outside in the golden,
grilling sun. That enclosed grass and flower
square, the one little lung of our Parliament
House, is the warmest spot in Sydney on a hot
day. Amongst the outsiders an officer was ex-
plaining to a girl that Dutch ladies wore the
engagement ring on the right hand, and when
they married changed it to the left, and that the
Holland husband also assumed a wedding ring
when he took to himself the white man’s burden.
Mrs. Trefle (I hope that’s the kind of accent
she wears on her last “e”), wife of the member
for Castlereagh in the last Parliament, who was
“minding” a delightful stranger from Moree,
had another brass-bound Viking almost in tears
because he would have to leave without seeing
Wilga trees. She held a brief for Wilga trees.
Australians who were present had also never seen
Wilga trees ; but they dissembled their grief.
Mrs. Paling, wife of the Dutch Vice-Consul,
caused a block at one of the tea-room doors. At
least the little bag in which she carried her purse
and handkerchief was the real cause of the
obstruction. Her friends, and several persons
whom she had never seen previously, but who
wished to be introduced to the bag, were asking,
“And you really made it yourself?” It was of
bead-and-gold embroidery, an exquisite thing,
with something like lotus-blue kid showing in the
groundwork. Under pressure of questioning, the
lady confessed that the crescent, forming the lower
part of the bag, was the toe of a slipper brought
from Java.
All the “ welkom ” festivities from the 16th to
the 26th of September have served, as well, to
better introduce to Sydney Mr. J. C. Stuart,
the new manager of the Dutch Packet Line of
steamers. He succeeded Mr. Coeheret some seven
months ago, and is a much-travelled Dutchman,
born in Java, despite his Mary Queen of Scots
surname.
Another —a flying Dutchman this one—is Mr.
J. de S. Lohman, who has made himself an im-
mense favorite with the Sydney girls. He is not
a man o’ war, but is doing some world-seeing after
a seven years’ stay in Sourabaya. His flight from
our country occurs by the Empire, leaving this
week.
I saw, by the way, that some well-meaning
folks took our visitors to Medlow, where “they
were entranced at the spectacle of the famous
Hydro. Picture Gallery.” I think, without in any
sense casting reflections on the Hydro, works of art,
that I would have kept the Dutchmen out of that
gallery. They came from a land which produced
Peter Paul .Rubens and Vandyck ; also Albert
Cuyp, Hobbema, Teniers and a thousand others
of almost equal genius. It is inconceivable that
they were entranced in the sense that the news-
paper man meant. Many a man has looked en-
tranced after swallowing a glass of ginger wine,
or what not, when he was only wondering
affrightedly whether it had prussic acid in it.
At Coolac, which is a hamlet over against
Tumut, the Dudley party were “tin-canned”
last week—the first time, i understand, that this
horror has ever befallen vice-regalities in Aus-
tralia. The natives had been tin-canning a
newly-married couple, after the cheerful manner
of those remote parts; but, hearing that the
Dudleys were in the vicinity, they immediately
abandoned their friends and removed themselves
and their mouth-organs, jews-harps and empty
dippers to the siding where the vice-regal
train reposed. The tin-canner’s idea is much
the same as that of the London street
organist—he expects to be paid in coin or beer to
go away. In this case the Dudleys misunder-
stood the position, and hearkened with affected
gratification (they imagined they were endur-
ing the best efforts of the local band) where
largess would have been more acceptable. Finally
the musicians were shooed off by a railway
official, and went home in a sober and conse-
quently morose frame of mind.
I« England decadent ? Certainly ! No country
that wasn’t would support “ Our Miss Gibbs ”
for a straight run of two years. Such good talent,
too, is vainly expended on the witless fooling of
the new musical comedy. Kirby makes
ten thousand bounces in the air singing the
while doggerel songs. The new girl, Blanche
Browne, is the sweetest thing that ever wore a
tea-cosy hat. This top-piece is made of lace, and
haspink baby-rosesround.it. The lady under-
neath it is as graceful as a kitten, and possesses a
fresh, small voice and the neatest pair of dancing
feet. But so far as her connection with the
sumptuously upholstered showroom, of which she
is “our Miss Gibbs,” is indicated, she might
almost as well be a typist.
The music-hall piece will “go,” nevertheless,
on the work of the scene-painters, the milliner
and the dressmakers. It is superbly staged, even
though many of the gowns are too much on the
sombre side as to coloring. Duchess Florence Vie
has an amber grey and electric-blue composi-
tion that is wholly satisfactory. Another
costume—one got on tick—is a string-
colored ninon, with emerald in sash form
shining from beneath. Miss Fitzmaurice Gill,
walking with thrush-like steps in her constricted
gown in the second act, is one of the minor trials
of the comedy. All the “gags” on the opening
right were of English significance. For instance,
the sponging duchess says that Someone or Some-
thing would be “ as much out of place as a Labor
member at a Royal garden party.” With the ex-
ception of a burst of applause from one spot in the
circle, probably inhabited by strangers, the epi-
gram fell flat. As our Labor members are often
writers, barristers, doctors or the like, a Royal
garden party would not be a note the lower for
their presence. ,
The beauty of the “ Arcadians," Miss Connie
Simpson—Corona was her alias— leaves for Lon-
don by one of the modest White Star steamers. At
the farewell dance given in her honor last week by
Mrs. George Sly,' of Strathfield, the daring young
party showed her originality by wearing, with
great success, an emerald-green chin-strap,
with a chou of chiffon above her left ear.
The rest of her was robed in a long black velvet
gown. But the green chin-strap was the text of
the talk the morning after, and the fair damsel’s
commentators are wondering if it was suggested
by the famous Queen Louise portrait. You know
the picture of the “Angel Queen” of Prussia
coming down stairs apparently clad in her nightie
(really “Empire”), and with’a wisp of drapery
over her head and under her chin.
Since returning from a French school, where
she had dwelt since the days of childhood. Miss
Simpson has been more or less in the suburban
eye, and when she joined the Clarke-Meynell co.
she came into the public optic also. Her mother,
one of the well-known Embledon family, was the
beauty of Sydney in her day, and a great-grand-
father was the remarkable old barrister, David
Buchanan, brother of the novelist George of the
same surname. Barrister Buchanan’s vitriolic
Replies to the late W. B. Dailey and the late
Archbishop Vaughan may still be found amongst
thecobwebbed and moth-eaten “littery” goods
in obscure second-hand bookshops.
Another stage beauty, who leaves here tr try
her luck in London, is Miss Maisie Le Soeur. She
can’t act, but she can look and dress so well that
the acting is condoned.
The Royal Art Soc. closed on Saturday with a
brilliant students’ night. About 50 pictures were
sold. Governor Chelmsford bought two and the
Edmund Bartons one. Attendances have been
better than last year, and, among some more,
Mrs. W. Lister Lister and Mrs. Tom Marshall
gave festive evenings. Now the rooms will go
back to the art classes, under the direction of
Norman Carter and the Rubbo.
By the death of squatter .T. K. Clark, father of
sharp little Robertson Clark, now private secre-
tary to the Governor of M.L., Sydney learns that
Clark, senior, had four daughters. Two of them
came on a visit to Sydney from their English
quarters some few years ago, and stopped at divers
Government Houses. Nice unassuming girls they
were. The elder married the manager of her
father’s station, and is simply Mrs. Browne.
Mrs. Falkiner, widow of the late F. S. Falkiner,
of Boonoke station, has hit on a peach of a plan
for preserving her woolly husband’s name. She
has handed over £2500 to help Riverina State
schoolboys through a university course. And the
Government has come along with a promise to
found a scholarship at the Hay High School; so
that now the poorest little Cocky, jun., in that
part of the country, may climb to the dizziest
heights of expensive scholarship.
Mrs. Ethel Turner Curlewis’s welcome-home,
given her at the Australia yesterday by a number
of friends, was as bright a success as sincere cor-
diality, music and nice cookies and tea could
make it.
The Matthews, of Wahroonga—the skin, hair
and hides people (there’s an awful lot of money in
that trinity)—are back from Europe with their
five ewe lambs. Their only son has been left
behind to study something. Mrs. Ure Smith and
others have been welcoming the Matthews at the
Australia with an extensive outlay of the shrub
that grows in China, Ceylon and Java.
Mr. Humphrey Stephen, a son of the Septimus
Stephen who died in England, has been furloughing
in Sydney, on a visit to the Edward Knoxes.
His return to his regiment in India was an excuse
for much dance and picnic frivolity.
Selections from Mr. Frederic Manning’s poems
made up Miss Rose Seaton’s programme for the
second reading of her series last week. “Brun-
hild” and “ Helgi of Lithend,” both narrative
poems, and some smaller sets of verse were read
to a good audience, many units of which did not
know that thepoetisan Australian. He is a younger
son of the W. P. Mannings, and abides in foreign
capitals. In one at a time, of course. A while
ago “ Scenes and Portraits,” prose studies, brought
the youngster considerable name and fame. Now
he is working on an eighteenth century French
romance.
The Sydney Muffs Dramatic Society is training
some promising talent for amateur and profes-
sional appearance. Mrs. Boult, a pupil of the
late Mrs. Majeroni, has a special class for stage
dancing, voice production and several etceteras
that make for success behind the footlights and
under the limelights.
Which reminds me that a clever and pretty
young Maorilander, of Dunedin by birth and of
Christchurch by residence, Miss Dorothy Gard-
ner, has been engaged by the Clarke-Meynell
Combine for the “ Gay Gordons” production,
opening in Melbourne near Christmas. The
novice sings and dances well, and her acting in
Arthur Adams’s playlet, “Pierrot in Australia,”
—she appeared in it with Mr. W. B. Beattie—got
honorable mention from the critics.
Miss Florence Young, who must be thanking
whatever gods there be that she is not in the cast
of that fool production, “ Our Miss Gibbs,” has
taken a cottage at Bondi. Surf is most likely the
lure.
Miss Nora Venables (isn’t that name one of the
kind Marion Crawford might have used for a
novel ?) changes her name this week to Rutledge.
The popular ex-hospital matron will vow in a
white crdpe-de-chine, and so long as it’s not a
pipe-stem gown, she ought to express that much
overworked word “charming.”
A departer for tropic parts by the Van Lin-
schoten will be Mr. St. Vincent Welch, ex-
manager of the big Commercial Union Insurance
Company. He is well known here as a pillar of
the Anglican Church and a good judge
of pictures. Mr. Welch goes as the repre-
sentative of a new company that has acquired
rubber and cocoanut lands in Sumatra, opposite
Penang. On his return journey he will sample
the idyllic island of Java.
Barrister Harry Manning’s election calico signs
are out in opposition to those of R. D. Meagher,
whom he opposes for Phillip Division. To retail
stale news, the new political aspirant is a son of
the W. P. Manning knight, and is married to a
daughter of the late Justice Martin. Mrs. Man-
ning and her little girl are at present visiting
kinsfolk in England.
With honorary conductor A. H. Norman hand-
ling the baton, the Mosman Musical Society last
week did itself justice at its final concert for the
season. Gounod’s “St. Cecilia ” Mass (Messe
Solennette) filled the first half of the programme,
and so well was it rendered that one felt the next
movement would be the passing round of the col- j
lection-plate. Miss Zara Woiinski (sister of
artist-singer Wolinski, whose “After Life’s Fit-
ful Fever” hangs on the walls of our National
Gallery), Harry Neil and W. B. Beattie were the
solo vocalists, while Mowat Carter soloed in a
romance for violin and orchestra, writ by Svens-
den. Sundry choruses and part songs, the work
of Schubert and Bishop, and an orchestral number
or two padded the programme, which closed with
a sestet and chorus from “Ernani,” sung in the
original Dago language.
Yours affectionately,
AkENEHI.
Extract from the wisdom of N.S.W.
Minister Hogue, uncorked at the Glebe :
When the present Government started to make
engines the Clyde Company was turniner out 10 ensrines a
year. Now the company was turning out 35 engines a
year. Look what an amount of additional work that
provided. (Uproar.)
A voice: Why don’t you let the State build the
engines?
Mr. Hogue: The State could not do what Private
Enterprise could do.
Quite true —so long as the State, for practical
purposes, consists of Wade and Hogue. But
why should Hogue thus advertise his own in-
capacity ?
“ 10-2-4.” : This is from the ready stylo
of Foster Fraser. (It occurred in Heakth and
Home, 9/7/’10): —
A little time back I was in Colombo. A dealer in
precious stones tried to do business with me. He had
not what I was seeking. “ Will you buy a cat’s eye?” he
asked —a curious stone which has the slit-light of a cat’s
eye in it. I was willing to look. With great care the
dealer produced a package from an inside pocket, undid
many wrappings, and at last unfolded a good cat’s eye.
How much ? Mysteriously he whispered he was in need
of money—he knew the great sahib was a mighty judge
—not for Mahomet would he let anybody else have it at
the price—l must keep it a dead secret —but I could have
it for £l7. “ I’ll give you £l," I said. He was shocked ;
he thought I was joking : with indignation he wrapped
up the stone and tucked it away and marched off. But
he came back and showed me other stones. Occasionally
he would revert to the cat’s eye. Well, £l2 1 Well, £lO,
though his heart cracked at parting with it. £ll offered.
He beseeched me nor. to be funny. He went away, and
came back in 10 minutes. At the end of two hours I qot
that cat’s eye for £l.
Who that has put in as much as four and a half
minutes on the verandah of the Grand Oriental
Hotel or the Galle Face, or the Bristol, has failed
to encounter that predatory nigger and his cat’s
eye. He is an uproarious jest in the mouths of
Cockney bagmen, and a byword among waybacks.
The gem which he offers first, and which he never
sells, has some appreciable value. The ultimate
exhibit is dear at sixpence, being {>ortion of a
consignment of inferior glass that is regularly
shipped to Ceylon from Brummagem, for the un-
doing of the “fly-flat ” tripper. To me there is a
flavor of pathos in the spectacle of Foster Fraser
chortling over his £1 “bargain”—in connection
with which the black hound who trafficked with
him probably took him down for 19s. lOd. I
acquired a similar “bargain” in the long-dead
days when I was a trusting ass of 18.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS.
The Leading: House
For Diamond and Gem Ornaments of Every Description.
K
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOCUE
FREE.
SELECTIONS
FORWARDED
ON APPROVAL.
Visitors to the City should not fail to see
the Company's Extensive Showrooms.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
118 Queen Street, Brisbane
and LONDON.
500,000 Copies already sold of the Popular
“Bookstall Series” of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia .
THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION,
by H. K. BLOXHAM
(Author of “ On the Fringe of the Never-Never”).
With Four Full-Page Illustrations by Ben Jordan.
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/-; postage 3d.
THE
DOUBLE
ABJ
manias
Mr. Bloxham has
again succeeded in
weaving a web of
romance around the
belles of Wilcannia
which is likely to
prove as great a
favorite as his former
effort.
Tne plot is too
intricate and the in-
cidents too numer-
ous to mention in a
short paragraph, but
readers may be sure
of plenty of excite-
ment, told in this
author’s thrilling
style. The very
daring of the abduction of the two girls, although
committed by two seemingly simple young men, is
worthy of the best bushranging traditions of Aus-
tralia.
The Heart of The Bush,
By BRODA REYNOLDS.
Illustrated by H. CARTER.
Price 1/= ; Postage 3d.
“ The Heart of the Bush ” shows concl usi vely
that the people of the cities hold no monopoly
of the human passions, for the story teems with
incidents in which love and hate, jealousy and
revenge, weave in and out of the web of
Destiny in such a way as to enthral the reader
from cover to cover. That this gifted author
has an intimate knowledge of the affairs of the
Bush as well as the affairs of the heart must
be apparent to the most casual observer, and
those of us who have either memories of Bush-
land or just “ that touch of Nature that makes
the whole world kin,” will revel in the absorb-
ing atmosphere that pervades these pages.
The episodes that culminate in the duel in
Dead Man’s Gully are depicted in language
that leaves no doubt.
Books by that Prince of Australian Writers,
STEELE RUDD. A LAUGH IN EVERY PAGE.
Price 1/- each ; Post Free 1/3.
THE POOR PARSON.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
DAD IN POLITICS.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FOR LIFE.
ON OUR SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
BUSH RANGING BOOKS.
John Vane, Bushrang'er, by Charles White.
Short-Lived Bushrangers, by Charles White.
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by Ambrose Pratt.
Übiqrue,The Scientific Bushranger, by Clarence Martin
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL COMPANY, 476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and
Booksellers.
STECK
PIANOLA PIANO
is the:
idilal, gift
PIANO.
(p£s
y \
IS THE
IDEAL GIFT
PIANO.
THERE is no gift costing a like amount that is so impressive, so in keeping with the
whole spirit of giving, as a STECK PIANOLA PIANO. Its dignity, its beauty,
the splendid possibilities for musical enjoyment it offers to everyone, have made it a
favorite with those who wish to express more than the usual amount of esteem or affection
in their giving.
People do not buy fine paintings and then hang them where they cannot be seen.
Neither do people buy books printed in a language that they do not understand. Why,
then, should they buy pianos which they cannot play ?
A STECK PIANOLA PIANO means music of the kind that people enjoy most.
That is—music that is actually being played by some one, and not mechanical music in any
sense of the word.
IF there are half a dozen members of your household and you have a STECK
PIANOLA PIANO, you can soon tell from another room just who is playing it.
The perfection of the STECK PIANOLA PIANO’S construction, and its absolute
control of effects, make it as sensitive to the performer as any hand-played instrument, and
distinguish it from all its imitators.
If you are thinking of buying a piano, or making a present of one, surely the
piano that is always a real musical instrument, and never simply an ornament, is
the one to buy.
ANYONE, no matter how far removed his or her previous life may have been from
music, can play and enjoy the PIANOLA PIANO at once. Let us send you, free, a
Catalogue. Ask for Catalogue “ C.”
CAUTION.
.In Sydney the genuine Pianola piano can only be found at Pianola Hall. Almost all other manufacturers
are now attempting to imitate this: instrument. None of the imitations contain the Pianola, however,
with its Metrostyle, Themodist and other features which have made this instrument famous.
THE PIANOEA COMPANY,
. ■ ,j . . . ■ - .. .
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE. 357 George Street, Sydney (next to David Jones').


RECIPE FOR THE COMPLEXION.
One of our readers, who writes that she was
formerly severely troubled during the winter and
spring with chapped hands and face, gives us the
following recipe for a simple home-made lotion,
which, she says, is superior to anything else she
has ever tried, and also that it restores the delicate
velvety complexion of youth to those whose skin
has become paralysed and leather-like from the
use of lotions containing arsenic, bismuth and
pearl white.
Procure from your chemist a four-ounce bottle
containing two ounces Rose Water, one drachm
Tincture Benzoin, simp., and two ounces Flowers
of Oxzoin. Mix together and apply night and
morning, with the hands, or use a soft cloth or
sponge. Always shake well before using. If you
desire it perfumed, add a spoonful of French Fon
Fleur Perfume, which is an unusually pleasing
scent, and combines perfectly with the other ingre-
dients. To secure perfect results , bathe hands and
face, in warm water and dry thoroughly before
applying.*
hh
Smart
Frocking'
Possibly there is no time
at which “Smart Frock-
ing ” is more in evidence
than during the now fast
approaching Spring. It’s
a time of Carnival and
gaiety, when every
woman likes to look her
best. That happy result
is possible of achievement
only when due attention
is paid to correct cor-
setrie—an Incorrect corset
foundation rendering a
graceful, modish “ set ”
quite impossible.
Have your measure-
ments taken, and your
Spring frock fitted over
Royal
P.D.
R.ustless Corsets,
and you can be absolutely sure ol
the correct result. These famous
French Corsets anticipate every new
style that emanates from the fashion
centres. They make It possible for
every woman to secure that graceful
contour which present modes so
insistently demand, at the same
time allowing that peefect freedom
to the limbs necessary to health
and comfort.
Your Draper will show You
the New Models.
[3
Madame Weigel's Patterns.
' SYDNEY Agents—
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD., King & George Streets.
J. W. JOHNSTON, 440 George Street and
746 George Street, Haymarket.
MELBOURNE Agents—
W. H. COOPER, 23 Royal Arcade.
BALL & WELCH PTY. LTD., Flinders Street.
MADAME WEIGEL’S PATTERNS.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA.
THE FIRST and STILL THE BEST.
Sold at prices from 3d. to 1/- by Agents Everywhere.
FACTORY: RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
SQVIfiRE -TREAD WEBS
>vl
SRffiK
«*» •'
: 1
*** M '
SSH
ar
asst
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
, ~ Melbourne, September 26, 1910.
Dear Yarrie,— , ,
,A Masc[ue —still another Masque ! The Found-
lings’ topnotch .affair, so far, was the hall on the
2Qtfyi yet it was but a rootling of the bazaar-
to;be, qr maybe only a bucketful of soil, since
thq money it is to be used in provisioning
stalls. Whatever stall it helps, the result
will be the same to the unclaimed little Austra-
lians who are howling for more room and endless
attention.
People like some show for their charity half-
guineas, and they dug much fun out of their
masquerade. The strong Anglo-Saxon strain
in the crowd killed zip, breeziness, devil; still
they frivolled, though in a decorous way. And
picturesque—the thing could not help being pic-
turesque with a Tallis (of J.C.W., Ltd.) backing
up his secretary-wife. George Allan placed an
all-seeing eye at the front of affairs, and affairs
consequently didn’t get into any collisions. All
the committee women worked like busy-bee
butterflies, and a muffled figure or so with mascu-
line outlines sported a committee badge.
Bachelor George Allan couldn’t, however, resist
the dance; though he masked the face he left his
noble forehead bare, so there was no doubt about
him. At most masquerades here the domino is a
laxity, shed at once to show a fancy dress,
and the mask is a mockery. Not so at this
ball. The eagle eye swept the floor, and no one
moved there without the muffling; and horrible
threats of untold terrors kept the masks on till
the gong crashed at 11. Di Gilio played a volup-
tuous waltz, with a frisky finale for the denouement;
then stodgy hundreds stood still, in the full glare
of a chandelier, and peeled their mufflings in the
ttlattet-of-fact manner of so many swimmers in a
batll-housC. A dainty, mysterious little purple
doiilirio strolled across the floor pulling off
hei' Velvet mask with languid boredom,
and Her escort’s whole anxious attention was
fixed oh' rolling his wrap into a masculine
bundle; Sdarlet faces, beaded With petspiration,
Caniß orit of the shrouds, arid stteaks of uncurled
damp hair glued themselves over eyes. Then
there was a rrish for dressing-rooms and quiet
corners—but only then.
Mrs; Oharlie Fairbairn had her crowd all black.
There was a fiery double set—mask and
domino all scarlet. The Athertons and Robbs
and attendant willy-boys wore dark-purple
shroudings ; the purple was thin ninon,
and looked like a country twilight; One
swankey set hound itself in well-cut black
crripe, with small gilt bells a-daUgling j and
a slim, fine-shouldered crew hung themselves in
white silkiness with black trappings. The
muffled Crowd made a theatrical ballet-scene for
the half-guinea Watchers of the balconies. The
unfolding made the next entertainment. Fancy
dress runs much to legs—especially feminine
fancy dress. The skirts climb rip to high-water
mark, unrecorded since far-back teens. Some-
times the silk stockings are worth seeing, but
often middle-aged ankles shriek for shelter.
Real, live mummers came along from their daily
bread shows and fixed up lancers. Twelve o’clock
sat up and began to take notice. Julius the
Superb One arrived in the white brocade of a
Beaucaire. He handed the Lewis Waller lady
round in the lancers. Two society gallants, who
haunt stage doors, dressed to back-up Julius ; and
Norma MacMeiken and a Robb and an Atherton
finished the Beaucaire set. Her Majesty’s sent
down a “ Whip ” set, a jolly hunting crowd with
cracking whips, who rollicked through the dance—
dashing moderns alongside the old-time frill and
furbelow. The Warwick lady did not know her
lancers too well. Julius, superbly bending, hid a
stage frown. But the Warwick forgot even
her French court train later when romping
through a two-step with Jackie McComas.
Beaucaire favored only one waltz—that was with
Mrs. Tallis, who emerged from her domino in a
dairymaid sort of dress, all butter-colored satin
and foamy cream frothings. Mere man was a
minor figure. Two vice-regal darlings escaped
from gentleman-help duties for a blissful hour or
two, but slipped (unofficially) away at the clang-
ing of the bell to unmask. It is so rarely they
can escape in pairs for an evening out. And,
besides, other matters of importance were hap-
pening within close range in the city, with a
Carmichael in command. One girl, with a sack
of black net tied round her ankles, danced so
much with her own husband that it almost ap-
proached a scandal. Otherwise the breath of
perfect decorum overspread the frivol.
Society people ignored the spirit of masquerade
hv snobbishly marking their dominoes with private
signs, so that sets danced with sets, and the awful
line of clique demarcation could not blur. “ You
never know who’s ivho, my dear.” Another
damper on that volatile spirit of masquerade was
the solid rows of watchers. Good for the Found-
lings, no doubt, for two balconies were half-
guinea crushes, and two were packed with three-
hob watchers. But the dancers felt watched ; and
sweet girleens say that it cast the chilliness of
a frost over them to have so much elevated
chaperone.
Dolores arrived in Melbourne on Thursday, and
on Friday afternoon society rushed with quite
obvious enthusiasm to a reception at the Grand.
A good round dozen of the specially-elect acted as
hostesses. They placed Dolores in the centre
and surrounded her valiantly, in the way ele-
phants are said to guard the most precious
small elephant of the herd. From this vantag;e
point the adorable one said “How-do?” She is
a dainty lady ; she was dressed in a little black
gown that breathed Paris, and there was some
divine coral round about her neck and in her ear-
rings. Dolores looks fit enough for anything ; she
drops years instead of adding them. Mrs. Viardot,
who has been with her since she was a baby, is
travelling with her again. The one has almost as
many old friends here as the other.
Mrs. Mayoral Burston, in her favorite blue
garbing, headed the row of attendant ladies.
Mrs. Robert Reid made a large part of tbie hos-
tessing. She is an old friend of the. singer; arici
travelled-all through Maoriland with her oh her
las); visit. Daughter Miss Reid was there; too.
She does not often play about at parties, for her
practice as a vet. calls loudly to her. Yet she
knows as.much about music as she does of dogs
and horses, which is a lot. Mrs. Surgeon
O’Hara helped the party along; also the Von
Pinschofs arid the YVertheims. Mrs. Albert
Miller and Mrs. Buchanan were also of the im-
posing row. Someone gave Dolores a dinky littjle
basket full of forget-me-nots—sucli a dainty de-,
parture from the cruelly-wired flowers of tlip usual
ungainly bouquet.
Five or six hundred women and five or six meh
thronged the reception in a stream. Bhey were
kept from the usual scramble by a line of chairs,
lashed together by a cute management. Women
at a reception mostly scramble like so many
sheep ; but after they had been tallied in this
narrow race, there was a fine stretch of paddock
in the whole space of the big dining-room, with
plentiful fodder spread on afternoon-tea tables.
From three till five the crowd did not cease
filing in.
Pianist Shrimplin only arrived after the Sydney
season. Boyd Wells (who has made an earlier
Australian tour with Dolores, and has been
slapping her piano all over South Africa and in
other lands) was packed and ready to come along.
A last-minute wire told him of the serious illness
of his mother, and the tour was abandoned. Mr.
Shrimplin was given just time to cram a cap, a
collar and perhaps some pyjamas into a valise,
and bolt for the boat. Clarence Newell, the pianist
so well known here in the earliest Australian days
of Dolores, rooted this fellow-Californian oUt and
sent him at the point of the bayonet. Newell,
by the way, is now—Shades of Ghopin ! —a real
estateagentin Berkeley, California. Mr. Shrimplin
did his duty manfully at the tea-party. As a
male he was sadly out-numbered ; but continuous
Australian experience of Dolores receptions has
turried him into a passably good imitation of an
afternoon-tea young man. He has not yet learned
to drink tea, though, and his American soul still
yearns for the impossible—a cup of real good
coffee.
Tuesday night was a whirl of dances. Mrs.
Staughton gave a big, bounding ball at her house,
and the Germans were rolling in an ecstatic masque
at the Turn Verein. I asked a girl who “ came
on” to the Foundlings’ Mask Brill how she liked
the Sauerkraut pirouetting. “ Just loved, it,” she
gushed, “We sat on the floor and drank beer
out of mugs.” That’s all I heard of the German
ball. The Scandinavians revolve with thqir
annual ferVof in the same Turn Verein just as this
copy is despatched to its pressing engagement.
On Tuesday, also, the Masonic Hall was going
its hardest with a Seamen’s Mission entertainment,
With the rescued Carnarvon sailors as a particular
draw. The second boat had not been heard of at
the time, and the rescued mariners, who made up
the first boatload, were smiling round to the
backs of their heads at their own luck. All along
that boatload dripped with calm assurance that
the others would “be along soon,” though a
fearsome night followed the morning that the
captain and his crowd made Port Phillip harbor.
Of all the Tuesday frivols, Carmichael favored
this Carnarvon men’s welcome. Some of his
brawny men-at-arms slipped away for a blissful
hour of masquerade ; but they were back in time
to see their Gov. safely home.
Henlev-on-Yarra is drawing nigh—October 22
is the gala day—and arrangements for the feast of
fireworks and the flow of houseboat are well
advanced. Also, a single sculler and a champion
four are to be imported from Tassy by payment of
their saloon return fares; for Henley is incidentally
a, regatta as well as a crush. The rowing races, of
course, make no difference to the strolling multi-
tudes on the reserved bank of the river, because
they can’t see the water for houseboats ; all the
same, if nothing were understood to be happen-
ing in the afternoon, the multitudes wouldn’t
know why they were paying a half-crown to be pre-
sent. In the evening the lighted boats and fire-
works offer a full explanation of the gathering.
There are to be first and second prizes
for the best decorated.., and best illuminated
crafts, but the wily advertiser who would make
an artistic mention of whisky or boots will not be
eligible to compete for a prize. In fact, the wily
advertiser is frozen out of Henl(ey-on-Yarra nowa-
days.
“ The Whip,” at Her Majesty’s, cracks through
the same sensational kind of doings as “ The Win-
ning Ticket ” at the King’s. In fact, “ The Whip ”
has more of the true Bilanderson flavor, with its
Lords and its pedigrees, arid even its Lady Di.
No self-respecting Young Ladies’ Journal story
may be defrauded of its Lady Di. The Lady Di
in “The Whip” is a pretty filly, something in
looks between Olive Morelland Fan Dango. She
skims about in a natty racy-top, with ’cute motor
mufflings, but leaves the gorgeous frocks for the
lady villain, a beautiful Titian-haired creature
who is keen on swathings for gowns, and carries
a lorgnette for the confounding of her enemies.
Marie Illington, as the Hon. Mrs. Beamish—a
dairymaid who has married (and lost) a pedigree
—is really too pretty to convince folk. Rising so
in the world, she naturally clutches at Fashion
till she exaggerates it. Hers are the too-too-tight
skirts of the extremist. She patters painfully
about the stage, till one longs to suggest to her
Bert Bailey’s expedient when he got into tight
skirts. He took lessons from the bounding kan-
garoo. But what I was going to remark about
Marie Illington before her skirts got in the way
was her extraordinary likeness to Mrs. Brough.
She talks like Mrs. Brough, she walks like Mrs.
Brough, she looks like Mrs. Brough—the same
poise of head, the same gesture, the same man-
nerisms.
There are quite a dozen horses dashing on and
off throughout the three and a half hours of the
bellowdrama. If one does not miss its cue some
night and take a flying leap into the stalls, the
theatre will be robbed of the sensation of its life.
The orchestra is pretty safe if the horse shows
clean heels in a jump; but the first and second
row of the stalls will be just about right for the
excitement.
“ The Winning Ticket,” at the King’s, is just
as packed full of excitement and horses and
sports and villains and heroines. The Eugenie
Duggan heroine is a bride. She “goes away ”in
a hat exactly like a waste-paper basket wearing a
true lover’s knot in its ear. The “hidden secret”
she carries off is probably concealed in
the basket. If she confessed that secret in
the first act (as she is on the point of doing)
—’well, the whole beautiful fabric would fall
through, and Temple Harrison would be bereft
of his play. She doesn’t, however, and things
work out tempestuously. The crowning point of
excitement, jto my thinking, is in the last two
scenes. The semi-heroine sees the stolen winning
ticket in the villain’s hands. She stretches over
his shoulder and grabs the precious cloc-u-ment.
This happens in the Birdfoigri at Flfeniingtoh,
Then she runs. Everybody runs. Curtain,
Rise of curtain—and rill the Sorting-oht
of tangled love-matters that belongs to the
last act. It takes' some tifrie. .“I,love yO'u. pool-
as you are,” m'urrriurs the heroirie, rind embraces,
“ You are riot prior,” pants the sfemii-herriine, rufl-
fiing wildly ott tri the stagri rind vVaVing the herb’s
winning. ticket; She had bfefefi rurirting all thrit
while. Did she “do'” the g'raridritririd five times,
or did she tuhi round the track?
Th'e 1 principals seefri to have ri
serious epidemic o’f play-writing. First, Bert
Bailey and Ned Duggan achieved fame and mov-
ing pictures with their “Squatter’s Daughter.”
Next; Temple Habrison and W. Anderson himself
whirled the glories of a Tatt.’s winning ticket at
King’s. Now somebody whispers that the beaute-
ous Roy .Redgrave is busy imiriortalisifig Gripped
and Le Neve in a “ wireless ” dramhier.
"The Gity Newsboys’ ftiatinrie, billed for Gctobeb
14 at the King’s, is being boosted along by the
Carmichael lady; who makes the newsboys one
of her hobbiest charities. All the boxes havri
been sold already, knocked down at ten
each. Tickets can be had from Miss Edith
Onions, the secretary, at the Newsboys’ Hall, or
from that gallant, fair-haired A.D.C. at Govern-
ment House, Captain Yaux, who is hon. treasurer,
and is giving time and talent to the selling
of seats.
Mayoress and ex-Mayoress are both certain of
victory in the race for the seat that goes along
with the gaud-mayor’s chair. Mrs. ex-Mayoress
Davey sweeps about in gorgeous frocks, and with
hair fairer than ever (dry your hair in the sun
near the sea—that’s the newest tip), with the
anticipatory smile of the Hostess-in-Ohief. Mrs.
Present-Mayoress Burston smiles quietly and con-
fidently, and sends out cards for a ball.
As so-many men won’t go to dances where they
are wanted, some girls are consoling themselves
with a dance to which men won’t be asked, no
matter how much they want to be. They are
getting a lot of anticipatory joy out of dressing
up half the number as men, while the other half
will remain just plain (or pretty) girl. A deadly
mystery shrouds this coming frivol, which is to be
held in the ballroom of one of the sweet dears ;
but men pals are allowed to hear just enough
whispers of the affair to rouse in them the spirit
of Peeping Tom.
Judge Johnstone has been having a giddy time.
No; I’m not speaking of his recent year’s health-
seeking jaunt abroad ; that is a closed hook. It
was at Ballarat. The just-returned Judge had
taken his seat on the bench, and a leak in the gas-
pipes did the rest. His Honor reeled and fainted.
But he has recovered ; so it’s not so serious, after
all.
A mummer beauty-man is taking his Collins-
street strolls in a limelight hitherto unexploited by
matinee idols. He and wifie take the pram
along, with baby gurgling among the fripperies.
It is usually papa who wheels the chariot, too.
The gallant Frenchmen who are going to estab-
lish a Melbourne school of aviation have not yet
decided which racecourse shall be the scene of
their first display. Flemington would give by
far the best crop of gate-money, but its numerous
telegraph wires are forbidding to the man who
will perform the dicky-bird trick. The possi-
bility of flying into a telegraph wire and getting
entangled with an urgent message is a very
serious consideration for Mr. Gaston Cugnet, the
boss expert of the party. All the same, it will
probably be at Flemington that he will take the
air in a week or two.
The first public demonstration of a Bleriot mono-
plane in action is to be by way of testing Mel-
bourne’s public interestinaviation, and opening up
the question of aflyingschool with a business agency
attached. The Frenchmen talk interestingly of
their hopes and expectations. Seeing that Aus-
tralia is a great country for le sport, and produces
all sorts of champion athletes, they reckon that it
should aspire to championship in aviation. Mr.
Gugnet anl the others have come all these 12,000
miles to teach the art, take orders for monoplanes
and shake up the Government to a sense of its
responsibility. They dream of a big aviation
tournament, with lots of valuable prizes to attract
competitors from Europe, and brilliant victories
for local flymen. They talk business in broken
English, and seem to have well-defined notions of
what pioneering work they are going to do.
The gods here have got back to normal pitch.
The boys who sell “ri ’apenny comic ”on the
stairs going aloft were beginning to lose heart.
All through the Grand Opera times supercilious
people spurned the luscious morsel of literature.
But business is getting right again—and for the
lolly-boys, too.’ Munch and melodrama go hand
in hand.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The Admiral Hendersons have been staying at the
Residence all the week. They have seen Parliament, the
navy, the train that runs through the main street, and
all the other marvels we keep for the amusement of
visitors. One day they were motored up to the summer
residence, Marble Hill, which keeps a champion view
attached to its front verandah. On the same night a
dinner and reception, both utterly official, broke the
Government House monotony. Latet, the visiting lord
of the sea got into his warship and scurried up the Gulf
to Wallaroo, whose smelters insisted on his staying to
dinner.
Meanwhile, our own duke of the wave was comman-
deered by the village of Quorn to open its Agricultural
Show. He performed the feat without mishap.
The other Sunday the army had a memorial service for
the warriors who fell in the Boer-extinguishing blunder.
Admiral Henderson was there; also the Excel-
lencies, with a pair of black-robed daughters in
three-cornered hats. The general public likewise at-
tended, and the collection plate went round to
keep the soldiers’ graves green. Afterwards the army
put several wreaths on its bayonet and hung them round
the memorial statue on North Terrace. This, you may
remember, represents a warrior on horseback, and con-
tains the names of some men who fell in the S’African
war,- and some who didn’t, but happened to have lnttu-
entiai parents. •
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Orilickshanks revel for their
handsome boy Errol Was a novel function. The host
arid hostess welcomed some 140 bright infants, ana
a feW mere groWn-Ups, and set them to dance
amidst scarlet poppies and Wheat, Supper occurred
later in d world where Wistaria and asparagus-fern
rioted through .latticed doorways, Itt the middle
of the fun si Pierrot and Pierrette evolved sud-
denly oht O'f thin air, and were led in by the hostess, each
Carrying a great basket laden with favors for the guests.
Thereafter 140 proud young Australians were dancing or
pursuing ices; under a freight of dolls,- sweets ana every
tCV-novelty on earth. . . , .«
The very nicest thirig We have in brides has gone to
Sydney for honey. She was Ghristabei, the second
daughter of the Toni Barr Smiths, and she was married
to Captain-aide Wright oh , September 20
Andrew’s, Walkerville. "the knot was securely tied,
without ariy loud trumpeting, by ArehdeaCort Dove.
The Excellencies and the twins were there, also ‘Natives
arid intimate frierids only; Good taste Was also P ,r J® e *
—a guest Adelaide’s rich rind great generally leave
The pasteboard is about for the MayoralCohehs’gafderjl
revel, which will give the pretty racecourse at Victoria
Par,k an opportunity to wear lialf a million spring roses
and frocks on October 25. Mr. Coheri has been a sick
man for some Weeks', and is oriiy rioW ort the toad to
Receptions loom in honor of the Matiiesoh twain,•
whom we shall have at the Theatre Royal before this
reaches the indignity of print. .
At moment of writing a procession of new spring mil-
linery is wending to that frockiest occasion, the Hunt
Club races. Golden sunlight, a landscape speckled with
dandelions and a breeze that needs Keats to do it justice
are combining to knock every other Hunt Club day into
a cocked hat for pure bliss.
Two nights, last week, the annual celebration known as
the Thousand Voices packed the Exhibition to the last
inch. The voices are drawn from the State schools, and
the young Melbas and Carusos make a goodly noise
among them, some of the chorus work being no dis-
credit to anybody. Talking of State schools reminds me
that some good Australian has started a Bird Protection
Club among the youngsters for the laudable purpose of
preserving our native birds. Already the club is
flourishing in no less than 50 schools.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


SAFEGUARD Your COMPLEXION
Against the Onslaughts of Coming' Summer.
WITH the approach of summer and the long days in the open air, the care of
the complexion becomes a matter for great consideration. Even the girls
who do not go in for any athletics have to face the problem, for there are
race meetings and many garden parties. All open-air functions work havoc on
the complexion.
“ Let her not walk in the sun ” was Hamlet’s advice to Ophelia. This shows
that Hamlet knew what had the power to mar the beauty of woman. But in these
enlightened days women can afford to laugh at the wisdom of the Prince of
Denmark, even as she can snap her fingers at the sun, the great enemy
of the complexion. With impunity she may golf and motor, hunt
and yacht, and frolic in the surf, knowing full well that Yalaze
Skin Food and Beautifier will protect her complexion, put rout
to every freckle, will dispel tan and sallowness, and restore
clearness and whiteness to the skin.
Valaze safeguards the skin against all harm, and will,
within a fortnight to a month of the first application,
re-create a complexion that has lost every claim to the
name. It will also refine the skin’s texture, and make
impossible all inroads of wrinkles and lines.
In Valaze, the Society woman has found her salva-
tion ; she has recovered lost ground;. she enjoys the
satisfaction of growing beautiful. Valaze is not a make-
up, but a Nourisher, Stimulant, Replenisher and Safe-
guard of the complexion, and is the finest, safest and
most beneficial Skin Food ever produced by Science. In
jars, 3s. 6d., 6s. 6d., and 6d. postage.
Mile. Rubinstein recommends the following preparations
for use in summer :
Novena Sunproof Creme, an outdoor preparation which
shields the skin from the sun’s rays, preventing freckles, sunburn,
tan and sallowness. This preparation is unique, insomuch as it counter-
acts all beauty-marring effects of the /weather. In jars, 3s. 6d., 2s.
Valaze Snow Lotion, a delightful toilet lotion for greasy, coarse, red and
shiny skins. It cools, soothes and whitens the skin, and overcomes greasiness
and over-moistness, imparting a dull, soft, fresh appearance to the skin. 3s. 6d.
a bottle.
Valaze Complexion Powder, pure and dainty. It is exquisitely cooling and
refreshing for a greasy skin, and will protect the pores of the skin from dust and dirt.
h
Novena Poudre softens and nourishes a dry skin, and is the only powder which is a
skin food as well. In boxes, 2s. and 3s. each.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure, an instant remedy for these unsightly
blemishes. Removes all impurities from the pores, refines the skin’s texture, over-
comes greasiness, coarseness, and whitens and softens the skin. 2s. iod. posted.
Valaze Liquidine, a unique preparation of great merit in counteracting extreme
cases of acne, .pimples, blotches, blackheads, coarseness and greasiness. Also excel-
lent for redness of the nose and cheeks. Prevents and removes uncomfortable
flushing, and imparts a soft, dull appearance to the complexion. ss. and
Bs. 6d.
Valaze Lip Lustre protects the outer membrane of the lips
from the drying and hardening effects of the wind, sun and
heat, prevents cracks, sores and chaps, and imparts a natural
coloring which cannot he detected by biting or wetting..
2s. and 3s. 6d.
Yalaze Skin Tonic, an astringent lotion which prevents
and removes wrinkles, removes bagginess under the
eyes, tightens the skin, and refines the texture. 3s.
6d., and 6d. postage.
Novena Cerate, the finest skin cleanser in the world, is
an excellent auxiliary of Valaze. It cleanses the skin,
nourishes the tissues, and is especially beneficial for
dry, wrinkled skins in summer. It should be applied
during the day instead of washing the face, and allowed
to remain on as long as convenient; when wiped off, the
' skin will be delightfully cool, fresh, soft and fair-looking. In
jars, 3s. 6d., 2s.
Novena Hair Destroyer instantly removes superfluous hairs,
without the slightest detriment to complexion. It leaves a
delightfully cool sensation, which is a pleasant deviation from the
usual effect of other depilatories. ss. 6d., 6d. postage.
Mile. Rubinstein’s book, entitled “ Beauty in the Making,” will tell you all you
want to know about the care and treatment of the complexion. It points the way
to beauty—beauty, unfailing, unmistakable and natural. It is sent free with order,
otherwise, 3d.
All Valaze preparations are obtainable from leading Chemists, or direct from
Helena Rubinstein, Prop. Ltd., Valaze Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney; 274
Collins Street, Melbourne; and at Wellington, N.Z.; and Mayfair, London.
Something' about the Stock
of the
GREEN COUPON
COMPANY,
At 387 GEORGE- STREET, Opp. the Strand.
How much smoother things would go generally if people stuck to facts, and what a lot of expense the Co-operative Coupon Company would be spared if
it were not so much engaged battling with misrepresentations ! But those persons who talk in flippant fashion about “ the bit of glassware collectors receive
in exchange for their coupons must have a poor opinion of the intelligence of the ladies of Sydney and suburbs. For thirteen years this Company has been
established at its present address, and throughout that time these ladies have been flocking to its showrooms—in one month 13,821 came—and we imagine they
would have got tired of the system long ago if they could not have got what they wanted, and what we undertook to give them. This is no tinpot concern, we
buy heavily in the English, Continental and local markets,-(just think of the quantity we get through every year), and keep a large and valuable ever-changing stock
on hand. We append a list of some of the goods we have stocked during the past six months, and we desire to say that these lines have been stocked in large,
quantity and variety too. We invite anyone to challenge the accuracy of this list, and if he cannot do it, we hope he will be honest and for ever hold his peace.
Bronzes and Statuary, Bamboo, Wicker and
Basket Ware (including Chairs, Tables,
Settees, Hallstands, Cabinets and Lounges,
and a special lot of American Dining and
Rocking Chairs).
Clocks of all sorts, including Marble and
Marbleised Clocks.
Dinner and Tea Sets.
Electroplated Ware (a great variety, including
Biscuit Barrels, Breakfast and other Cruets,
Cake Baskets, Fruit Dishes, Fruit Stands,
Fish Servers and Carvers, Tea Sets and
Teapots, all sorts of Spoons and Forks,
Butter Dishes, Bread Knives, Bread Boards,
Napkin Rings, Razor Strops, Shaving
Mugs, Hair Brushes, Mirrors, Manicure
Sets, Jewel Cases). ■>
Kitchen Utensils in general assortment, both
in Enamel and Aluminium.
Epergnes (in Silver, Bronze and Ruby Glass).
Hot Water Jugs (China and E.P.).
Dresden China Vases (figures and ornaments).
Semi-Porcelain Dinner Sets (26 and 50 pieces).
Toilet Sets (6 pieces in various decorations).
Tea Sets (Decorated China), 21 and 40 pieces.
Wringers (2 years’ guarantee), 2 sizes.
Sterling Silver-Back Hair Brushes.
Shaving Mugs and Moustache Cups.
Decorated Glass Pickles and Jams;
China Cups and Saucers, in various designs.
Decorated Green Glassware (assorted).
Ruby Decorated Glassware (assorted).
Aluminium Dessert- and Tablespoons.
Mirrors and Overmantles.
Musical Instruments.
Afternoon Tea Sets.
Butter Knives (Pearl and Zylo. Handles).
China Sardine Dishes.
China Plaques (hand-painted).
China Breakfast Sets.
China Tea Sets (40 and 21 pieces).
China Jugs (sets of 3).
China Egg Cruets.
China Clock Sets.
Fenders and Fireirons.
Gun Metal Watches.
Gold Pendants.
Jam Spoons.
Japanese Art Pots, _ .. _
Jewelled Back Combs.
Leather Purses.
Lamps (Hand and Stand).
Marble Pedestals.
Cigarette and Cigar Cases.
Pulp Fibre Dishes.
6 Pieces Toilet Sets.
Peggy Bags (assorted).
Pickles R.P.
Silver-backed Mirrors.
Sterling Silver Watch Chains,
Sets Chessmen.
Toilet Trinket Sets.
Scissors.
Pocket Knives.
China Cabarets.
E.P. and Enamel Belt Buckles.
Cut Glass Jugs.
Spirit Decanters.
China Teapots.
Decorated Rock Teapots.
Pictures.
Opera Glasses.
China Salads (Decorated).
China Butter Dishes.
Crumb Brush and Tray.
Deck Chairs.
Decorated China Vases.
Decorated Glass Vases.
Dressed Dolls (great variety).
Children’s Books.
Gold Pendant Pins.
Gold Brooches.
Jardinieres.
Japanese Decorated Vases.
Japan Glove and Handkerchief Boxes.
Ladies’ G.M. and Silver Watches.
Lacquer Trays (sets of two).
Mincing Machines.
Match Boxes (metal).
Photo. Albums.
Peggy Bags and Motor Bags.
Photo. Frames and Plaques.
Piano Stools.
Sets of Tools.
Sets Carvers.
Tricycles, in 3 sizes, 1,2, 3.
Fountain Pens.
Salad Bowls and Servers.
Bacon Saws.
Cheese Dishes.
Decorated Glass Water Bottles.
China Figures (great variety).
Assorted Novels.
Tumblers.
Hammocks.


PERFECT PROPORTIONS.
Simple Regime to Ensure a Shapely Figure.
How enviable is the beauty of a perfect figure—
the grace of an alert and upright bearing! But
cdrpulbhey even the first signs of the lurking dis-
ease ofj obesity—spoils everything. The unen-
lightened, appalled at the evidences of rapidly
increasing weight, are too apt to fly to extreme
measures—strict dieting, cathartics, exhausting,
gymnastic exercises, spurious medicines, and so
forth. Nothing could be more unwise. Fat or lean,
the system is not to be trifled with; ample food,
fresh air, moderate exercise, soothing restare what
Nature inexorably needs. As for the prompt
suppression of any excess of fat and the recovery
of perfect proportions, here is a simple and harm-
less prescription which has proved lastingly
efficacious in thousands of cases—even in those of
long-standing obesity:—Take one half-ounce of
Marinola, one ounce of Fluid Extract of Glyeyr-
i hiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., and
shake up well with peppermint water to make up
s x ounces in all. Of this splendid fat-reducing
remedy (any chemist will make up the prescrip-
tion, or you can do so yourself) take two teaspoon-
fuls after each meal. Perfect proportions will
soon reward a little patience, and you will feel
cent, per cent, better in health and strength.*
MEN who appreciate a smart
appearance always pay
particular attention to
their boots.
By usinsr Cherry Blossom
Boot Polish you fret the finest
shine_ without much trouble.
It is very easy to apply and
quick in action—a polish that
need be used only occasionally.
The shine stays.
Cherry Blossom is sold in the
larirest tins on the market at 3d. and 6d. each. Black or
Tan. Manajrinsr A (rents for Australia :
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ĥ
He took her in a taxi-cab,
And said : “My dearest Miss McNab,
Will you be mine and marry me?
My weekly wage is three pounds three."
Said she: “Of this I can’t feel sure,
You d have to buy Woods’ Peppermint Cure
For all my colds.” Said he : “That’s sense,
J take it too ; 'tjs no expense.”*
When You Are Kept Awake
At night with that troublesome cough, remember
that it can be speedily cured by Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Price Is. Gd. and 3s.~per bottle.*
PREVENTS PNEUMONIA.
A great many people have learned that pneu-
monia may be prevented by taking Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy whenever they have a cold.
Among the tens of thousands who have used this
remedy for colds and influenza duringthe epidemics
of the past few years, we have yet to learn of a
single one who had pneumonia, which should cer-
tainly convince the most sceptical of the value of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
MORE BLOOD FOR
PALE, WEAK PEOPLE.
♦
It Means Strength and Good
Health*
This Weak, Languid Girl Cured.
People who haven’t sufficient good, red blood
are said to be anaemic. Vigorous health and
strength are impossible if the blood supply be
deficient or impure. The whole health of the
body depends on the blood. That is why there
are so many distressing symptoms in anaemia—
lack of strength, paleness and listlessness, indi-
gestion, heart palpitation, backache and headache
are only a few.
The only cure for anaemia is an increased blood
supply. When the blood is built up all these
symptoms disappear.
To increase the blood supply, Dr. Williams!
Pink Pills for Pale People can lie recommended
with confidence. Their one great mission is tc*
make new blood. It is an absolute scientific fact
that they combine with food and air to increase
the bjopd supply. Further, they have cured
hundreds of people of anaemia. While so promptly
effective these pills contain no harmful
or opiates. They are perfectly safe, and create ncj
drug habit. They are carefully compounded in;
the most scientific manner with the finest ingre*
dients for the blood known to medical science, 1
Over 12 years record in Australia shows how good
they are.
“I was always rather delicate, and fell intq
anaemia as I grew up,” said Mrs. William Brown,
Ocean View, Bay Road, North Fremantle. “It
attacked me when I was 17, and I had doctor’s
treatment for fully 18 months. My blood slowly
turned to water. Mother tried everything she
could think of. I got so bad that 1 fully expected
to pass away. Thedoctor himself gave me up and
said he could do no more. My skin was transpair
ent, my lips and gums bloodless, and my face quit 4
yellow. My feet and hands were cold and clauimjf
even in summer. Sometimes I could not put oi)
my boots, my feet and ankles were so puffed up.
They all thought that I was in a decline. I went
to doctor after doctor here and in Queensland, bu}l
they could not get up my strength. I was ordered
to the hospital, but I refused, as I thought J ,
would never come out alive. I grew weaker every
day. Some days I would be ravenous with
hunger, and another day I would not touch a
morsel. I would faint off anywhere, sometimes}
quite suddenly in church or in the street, and
have to be helped home. I was not allowed td
hurry ; if I did, my heart would palpitate and 1
would think I was dying. I was very despondent.
As time went on I grew pitiably thin, my clothes
merely hung on me. I was tired of doctors, to say
nothing of the expense. Then through a friend of
mother I started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I
owe my health entirely to them ; but for them I
am convinced that I would not be alive now. I
gradually got my appetite and strength back, and
filled out. I could feel my blood getting richer
with every dose. I took nine boxes
and now my health is simply splendid.”
When you want Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t
be put off with anything else said to be just as
good. If you have trouble in getting them send
direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia Ltd., Sydney, who will send them by
return, post free, 2s. 9d. for one box, six boxes
15s. 3d.*
mnsni
DENVER’S
SPECIAL
ELASTIC
TRUSS
gives perfect
security and
comfort. Cool.
No springs to
irritate. We fit
you exactly.
denyer
©
17/6 Single.
22/6 Double.
DENVER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hufner S 6:), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Wade, speaking at Dubbo
tN.S.W.), let loose this astounding remark :
Nationalisation of the Sydney ferries meant that those
who used the ferries would travel more cheaply, and the
nationalisation of gas meant that those who used gas
would get it at a lower rate ; but how would that benefit
the people of Dubbo?
On the same principle, Wade, as Crown Prose-
cutor, used no doubt to address his jury this
way: “Gentlemen, the man in the dock com-
mitted murder. But as it wasn’t vou he mur-
dered, why find him guilty 1 ”
MORE PIRACY FROM THE LABOR
PARTY.
The new Wilson Government, in Westralia,
is having its nose pushed into the Lands Depart-
ment, and is being asked if it can smell anything.
One Henry Moore, in particular, is pushing hard.
He says he came out with a fair amount of capital
and a large amount of family, and he declares
that the land he and his son applied for was
allotted to a Chinese (European) official who hap-
pened to be visiting the State with his Chinese
wifq and children on a holiday, and that the
Ghipese (European) official presently passed it on
at jj, profit of £5OO and went on to his job in
China. Whether H. Moore is talking the truth
or not isn’t yet clear; but quite a lot of people
are joining in and telling of the vast difficulty they
have had to get on to anything better than a sand-
patch or a vigorous plantation of poison-weed.
“San Remo,” from the North :
One reason why I, a Queenslander, am prepared to lay
a shade of odds that the Wade Government is going to
be thrown down on October It is the gloom that has
settled upon the Phidston Government. A Labor victory
in the Ma State will have an overwhelming effect on the
next Queensland elections, and nobody knows it better
than the Phidstons. I watched them coming away from
a Cabinet meeting, a few days ago, like hopeless men try-
ing to steal a march on Death. I asked a bookie what
odds the Labor horse for the N.S.W. Nationalin October.
“ Odds 1” he shouted. “ Blime, do you want me to get
work ? ”
Some ancient and fish-like language by
Colonel Onslow, the Wadeite candidate for
Waverley (N.S.W.): —
IN AUSTRALIA WE HAVE NO MONEY OF OUR
OWN, and therefore we have to have recourse to the
money markets of the world to provide for our railways
and other national undertakings. But the Labor party
say they will not sanction any borrowing unless the
undertaking will return an interest of 4 per cent., and
provide a sinking fund to pay off the loan by degrees.
If the. Government of this country had waited until this
could have been done, we would never have had a railway
line in Australia.
Think of that; “in Australia we have no money
of our own ” —none at all ! The banks, it seems,
have no money ; the A.M.P. Society has none;
Colonel Onslow has none; Samuel Hordern and
Mark Foy and Rupert Clarke and
squatter McCaughey and Albert
Gould and the Manifolds and the
Fairfaxes and the Dixsons and all
the rest of the gilded folk we
know have none. The Dan-
gars are penniless, and
“Wingen” Abbott is a
swagman, and the big
pastoral companies and
Syd Kidman are really
sundowners. There
were never any
£500,000,000 of gold
dug out of tiie
Commonwealth—in
fact, there never
was anything. Yet
this wild political
blighter, who says
that all the six
States haven’t a
copper to bash
down on a tomb-
stone, if caught in
another mood, will
declare that N.S.W.
is a tremendously
affluent place which
pours out money
like water to support
the other members
of the Common-
wealth, and that be-
cause of its affluence
and generosity it ought
to have the Federal
capital and the transcontinental railway and
the naval base, and every other old thing’
that is going. And if he is told then thatN.S.W.
doesn’t own a sixpence in the wide world, his roar
will wake the dead and make the defunct sit up.
The N.S.VV. “Liberal” press has been
starring this pronouncement of A. G. Huie
I notice that Alderman Watkins is appealing to the
electors of Waverley for support as a “ Liberal ” candi-
date. Bob Watkins, as 1 believe some of his pals
familiarly call him, is the same Mr. Watkins who over
two years ago was a rank Conservative. I want to re-
mind Waverley electors of the essentially anti-Liberal
record of Alderman Watkins. What guarantee have they
that Alderman Watkins will not be up to his old tricks
again if his professed “ Liberalism ” enables him to attain
a position of greater power and influence.
The bizarre humor of this resides in the fact that
the “Liberal” alternative to Watkins is J.
Macarthur Onslow. Onslow is tin illiberal beside
whom B. Smith looks cheap. As a hysterical
shudderer at change of any description, he gives
W. Elliot Johnson points and a decisive beating.
There is only one fleshly thing as immovably con-
servative as Onslow, and that is a corpse ; and no
rational constituency wants to be represented by
a corpse.
The Tories in Australia are anxious for
an Osborne ruling in this country to prevent
trades unions voting money for political pur-
poses. As strikes are now illegal in several
States, and the arena of industrial warfare has
shifted from the strike area to the electoral ring,
to deprive trades unions of the right to spend
money in political warfare is to cripple them.
And that, of course, is what is aimed at; it is
not anxiety about the workers’ funds that is
troubling the Fat papers.
Labor in the Senate was fearfully out-
raged at Senator Clemons's yell to the effect that,
“ by a system of bartering and traffic, the Govern-
ment proposed to carry the transcontinental rail-
way and Northern Territory acceptance pro-
posals.” Supposing Clemons was wrong, why
should the Government be so angry about it?
Even while the Senators were protesting against
the slur, four at least of them were eating their
own words uttered last session in condemnation of
the Yassberra capital site, and voting to fix Aus-
tralia’s capital in a place which they had said
wasn’t fit for the purpose. If they were angry
with Clemons, how can they think calmly about
themselves? And if they are not angry with
themselves, why be mad with Clemons?
Thus Premier Wade at Annandale
(N.S.W.), according to last Saturday’s Tele-
gkaph :
There had been remissions throughout the whole range
of taxation, so that to-day there was no body of people
on the face of God’s earth more lightly taxed than were
the people of New South Wales. (Loud cheering.) The
Liberal Government had furnished strong and sufficient
reasons for a renewal of confidence—(applause)—they had
made life much easier for the workingmen and women
of the State.
Then the paper’s financial editor arose in the very
same issue and declared that “ taxation in Aus-
tralia since Federation has increased 75 per
cent..” and he also said that the average is £3
18s. 3d. per head and that it is 40 per cent,
higher than the figure in the United Kingdom.
It is awkward to have one “Liberal ” authority
clamoring that taxation is down almost to nothing
and that the great and noble State Premier did it
all, and another shouting that it is up sky-high
and that the wicked Commonwealth is the cause
of it; but these things will happen. One of the
incurable crazes of the Tory mind is the idea that
the very lowest scale of taxation is necessarily a
proof of the very best government. Yet the
minimum was reached by the aborigines, who had
no taxes at all, and absolute Ereetrade to boot,
and no Socialistic theories; and they were not a
very bright or successful lot.
Another story of this cursed State Social-
ism has just been told to the Yic. Department of
Agriculture by a man from Carina, near the S.
Aus. border. Last March the man owned just
what he stood upright in and a knowledge of
Mallee farming. To-day he has 400 acres of wheat,
which should bring in at least £lOOO in nine
months from the day he started. When he went
up to Carina, in March, the State, having sized him
up, took him in hand. It first rolled down the
mallee for him, taking bills on the crop as pay-
ment ; then, on the same terms, it found horses
and implements for him and supplied seed. He
hasn’t yet got his holding fenced ; but if his crop
does half as well as he expects, he will be able to
meet his bills, make his payments on his block,
and start next season well found and with a good,
round sum in hand to throw at the wolf when it
comes round with the first drought.
A BAD OMEN.
SYMPATHISER: “Cheer up, youngster! What's
the trouble ?”
AUSTRALIA: “ I'm anxious about George Reid.
I fear he must be starving somewhere. For
over a week the cable hasn't mentioned that
he's had a feed anywhere."
Anyone who wants a few lessons in the art
of lobbying, as practised by experts, should
attend the Vic. State Parliament, especially the
House of Fat, when the Government brings in
the Bill authorising a Wages Board for tramway
employees and another for revising the fares. The
recent municipal movement towards taking over
the metropolitan transport business has forced
Murray’s hand ; but unless he gives over being
John Weary for a while, something "will happen
to his Bills. He is up against the best under-
ground engineers in Victoria, with a sympathetic
House of Fat behind them. For Fat has ever a
tender regard for a monopoly—when it isn’t a
State monopoly.
THE EYE OF THE NEEDLE.—MODERN
VERSION.
“ At a meeting of the commercial interests acommittee
was formed to approach the Federal' Government, pro-
tesing against the land tax. The meeting wasarranged to
take place in the rooms of the Employers’ Federation,
hut they were found too small, and it was held in the
King’s Hall.”
It is easier for an elephant to pass through
the eye of a mosquito than for a rich landlord
to enter an ordinary building.
H. E. Manning, a barrister, has come out
against It. D. Meagher in the Phillip Divi-
sion of Sydney, whereat the S. M. Herald
remarks naively that “present indications
seem to point to this contest being one of
the most interesting in the whole campaign.”
“Jock” Garland, the most effective platform
speaker in the “Liberal ” party, snared 1735T0ry
votes in Phillip at last election, while Meagher
(Independent) and Sullivan (Labor) were
amassing 4313 votes between them. The
Meagher-Manning contest will certainly be inter-
esting—as interesting as, say, an encounter
between a mastodon and a Skye terrier.
Two lots of people had the loud guffaw
thrown at them from different ends of N.S.W.
last week. The Wade lot says that, thanks to its
statesmanship, the man who wants land m
N.S.W. can get it; and the anti-land tax
lot—which is mostly the same lot—says that
the tax isn’t wanted because big estates
are being cut up as fast as they can be absorbed.
Yet on one day last week there were 74 hungry
applicants struggling after one poor little home-
stead selection block near Forbes, and 36 other
hungry applicants were struggling after another
poor little block near Bellingen. If he saw 110
hungry barristers struggling for two small slices of
corned cabbage, even Wade might suspect that
there was hardly enough corned cabbage to meet
the case.
The nominations are in for the N.S.W
State elections. Three members, all Labor men,
are returned unopposed, and 198 candidates are
hunting after the remaining 67 seats. There are
six applicants in the King Division of Sydney ;
four at Waverley, and four at Marrickville. One
candidate is named Smith and three are described
as Jones—John Jones, Robert Jones and James
Jones. The last is said to have already contested
seven elections without any luck. The Bulletin
hasn’t traced his record right from the beginning,
hut certainly there was a James Jones who got
three votes at Darlington in 1898; nine at King
in 1904; three at Surry Hills in 1906, and 15 at
Darlinghurst in 1907. This may or may not be
the same Jones. No less than i 4 candidates des-
cribe themselves as journalists. Two are parsons.
There are seven solicitors, six barristers and one
Tomkins. Wood describes himself as “member
of Parliament,” which should knock him out on
the ground of wrongful description ; he can’t well
be a member of Parliament when there is no
Parliament.
PEACE, PERFECT PEACE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We require a period of rest and tranquillity. We want
nv more restrictive legislation in the near future.—
David Storey, M.L.A. (N.S. W.).
Peace, perfect peace ! To rest I fain would win 1
These legislative ways are far too rough.
We, like the lilies, would not toil nor spin.
Forbear! The laws we have are good enough.
Peace, perfect peace ! Reformers yell and curse,
We only want a shady place of rest.
The gentle handling of the public purse
In quietness of office suits us best.
Peace, perfect peace ! Break not the sleep of Fat,
Where prone he lies across the people’s land.
Bid Labor slumber. ’Tis a useful mat
Whereon our Private Enterprise may stand.
Peace, perfect peace ! Do not kick up a row ;
Let Bowling rest and wear his clanking chains.
Remember, he is used to them by now,
; l listen to the thing that Wade explains.
Peace, perfect peace ! Shut up ; give it a rest.
Be sure it is the country’s good we seek.
One measure yet is needed. It were best
To keep seven holy Sundays in the week.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


im
Si
IS
sFCft
USB
H
■
MODEL 1 (New Construction) can be specially recommended for
its clearness of tone. Just the Piano for the drawing-room.
REMEMBER, we are SOLE AGENTS for the
Genuine RICH EIPP and SOHN PIANOS.
There is a subtle charm in
the LiPP PIANOS that cannot
be explained—but is felt by
all who hear them.
Their tone is delightfully full,
yet delicate, their touch per-
fectly balanced.
Durability is a special feature,
the material used in construc-
tion being the very best
obtainable. The Pianos are
BUILT by experts of life-long
training, and they BUILD
THEM TO LAST A LIFETIME.
We sell these Pianos with our
full guarantee, and on easy
payments.
If you have an old Piano we
will take it as part payment
and allow you the highest
value for it.
Catalogues post free,
W. H. PALING <&. CO., LTD.,
And
and
at BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
<£3s: o
Suit To Measure
ra
S^as^s^A
inni
&
vV
C 7
X>.
m
Su/Miyan ri Jmuv LX
JfCelboume/^ji.
WM for Measure-Forms and/ TatJt&ns.
I
pmaUk
MM
<fljlhnnnnnnafltl|^^
A-SZ2.
r
mm
m
lllllilfllllflflflflNlfllfliriiH
Sargents’ Fancy Cakes, Pastry, Meat Pies g Fruit Pies
SERVING Sargents’ Delicacies at your afternoon teas, etc., the fancy cakes
and pastry are always appreciated.
Sargents’Meat Pies are really tasty, the pastry Is light and flaky, and the L i
filling is fresh and savory. The Fruit Pies are equally as good, only the
season’s choicest fruits are used—baked “just to a turn.” Try them.
WEDDING, BIRTHDAY AND CHRISTENING CAKES.’*
•f
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering-, 4250).
MELBOURNE : 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone, City 1344).
: i , : • * : ' • '■


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland's
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
His cough—l speak in confidence—
Was quite the worst I’ve heard.
His pain and suffering was intense
And all sufficient evidence
Of long continued negligence.
I need not add a word.
But now he’s cured—just take the hint,
The cure was Woods’ Great Peppermint.*
Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are a safe and certain cure for biliousness, con-
stipation, liver troubles, flatulence, anaemia, etc.
Sold at 10|d. and Is. 6d.*
COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND BONE
LINIMENT
Is a powerful penetrating preparation, which acts
through the pores of the skin on the nerves, bone
and muscles. It possesses themarvellous properties
of an immediate pain-killer, and is unequalled as
a remedy for the pains and aches to which human
beings are subject, and which only an external
remedy can relieve. . .
It overcomes all pains and aches by relieving
the effect on the delicate nerves, causing the cir-
culation of the blood to be fully maintained
through the injured part. It is an invaluable
remedy for sprains and for reducing all swellings,
which under its influence become softened and
disappear.
Rheumatism, sciatica and lumbago all yield to
the powerful penetrating and conquering proper-
ties of this Liniment, if used in connection with
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills according to
directions.
For stiff joints, neuralgia, lame back, scalds,
burns, contracted muscles and painful swellings it
will be found that Comstock’s Nerve and Bone
Liniment has no equal. It prevents severe blis-
tering, and draws the burning sensation from
burns and scalds, and averts discoloration of the
skin from bruises.
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment may be
obtained at all the leading chemists, or will be
forwarded by mail (post paid) at the same price,
2s. 6d. per bottle (6 bottles, 13s. 6d.). Address—
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street
Sydney.*
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 HP. £5OO.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
t
is nnarreciea oy cumauc cuumuuus*
AS That’s another point I
Ancnf Capt. Scott’r South Polo Expedition
tho "Motor/' 2016] 10. •<**-
“In this expedition of Captain Scott’s, * Shell*
motor spirit has been selected. The intrinsic
value of this order may not be so very great,
but whon one remembers the momentous re-
sponsibility thus thrown on to ordinary cans ot
* Shell,* the confidence and good opinion of tho
•electors is better expressed than any Wards
can convey.”
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALGOORLIE and COOLCARPIE.
Brewery and Oefices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Sydney sporting event of the week was the
great race between Challenger and Fairbanks for the
speed pennant of the N.S.W. Motor Boat Club. Enor-
mous public interest was evinced in the struggle ; around
the shores of the harbor great crowds watched the
race, and the harbor itself was alive with craft.
One reason for this unusual interest was that a
challenger’s appearance was the second coming of
that sturdy Australian, Charles llelph, the man
who tried to create an Australian motor-engine
industry ; and thousands of people who had never seen
the man prayed for his success on that account alone.
Years ago he installed the Magic with engines of his own
make. But the Magic was not a speed boat, and when
the Motor Boat Club sprang into existence with .£70,000
worth of motor craft, it was foreign-made engines that
competed for the championship. Then, one day on the
Parramatta River, the green Invincible flashed through
sunlit spray of its own making at 19 miles an
hour—the Invincible, the first Australian-made speed
boat from stem to stern, fitted with engines
designed by the Australian Relph, and made at Balmain
(Sydney) by Broomhead, the Australian foundry-man.
There was nothing like that beautiful green boat in
Australia, and Relph—owner and creator—was practic-
ally the champion of Australasia. Then Arthur Davies
appeared, with a boat built in Australia to a Yankee de-
sign, and fitted with a Fairbanks engine of nearly 40 h.p.
He attacked Relph, but was beaten with comparative
ease. He challenged again, and at the last minute
installed an extra engine, which, coupled-up with
the first, tandem fashion, developed 7S h.p. After
a splendid struggle, Relph and the Invincible
were beaten through the propeller of the Aus-
tralian boat carrying away at a time when it was leading
by about seven lengths. So, for three years, the Fair-
banks held the Speed Pennant, none daring to attack
Davies’s beautiful flier. Recently, however, Relph, find-
ing he had a little more time on his hands, through
having given up the effort to establish an Australian
motor-engine industry, determined to come again. As he
had not the conveniences for building an engine of his
own design, and as his object in making the Invincible
engine had failed, he imported a Daimler, and, has-
tily installing it in a hull made for a much lower-powered
engine, challenged Davies to defend his pennant. This
was the race that happened on Saturday.
It was an afternoon of golden sunshine and
glassy water except for the reach that lies between the
Heads, and even that was unusually sriiootb. Condi-
tions specified for three heats unless the first two were
won by the same boat, in which case the third would be
unnecessary. A splendid start was made ; the Chal-
lenger bounded to the front, and at Clark Island was
leading by fully 100yds. Relph slowed down to
take the turn, and then streaked away with a
flash which placed him a good quarter of a mile ahead.
Running across the Heads Challenger shipped several big
seas, and Relph had again to slow down. Fairbanks
made much the better weather crossing the rip. But the
champion was fully a mile behind rounding Manly buoy,
and when Challenger was streaking past Bradley’s Head,
Fairbanks was making George’s promontory. Relph won
easily, with a mile and a quarter to spare.
In the second heat Challenger again started
with a bound, and cleared Clark Island with 150 yards
to spare. Davies had tuned Fairbanks up a lot, but the
champion was clearly outclassed. And no one knew it
better than Arthur Davies; but he shut his teeth and
made a brave fight. Anything might happen ; and, any-
how, like a good sportsman, he was not going under till
he was outed. He tuned his boat up and forced it for
all he knew’; but it was a hopeless case, and again Relph
won, by three-quarters of a mile this time.
Relph’s only trouble is that his temporary hull
is not suitable for driving his boat at its full speed. Con-
sidering it was made for a much lower-powered engine,
it speaks volumes for the quality of builder Pelquest’s
work that it stood the strain so well. At present, Relph
and Griffith dare not drive more than 34 miles an hour,
whereas, with a suitable hull, they believe they
can cut out 40 miles per hour. The average
speed for Saturday’s racing was about 25J
miles, with occasional bursts of 30 miles by the new
flier. An amusing feature of the struggle was the an-
nouncement of the daily press that Fairbanks is 30-40
h.p., whereas the ow'ner told writer himself that the
engines with which the boat last raced—and presumably
they are still the same—developed anything from 70 to
80 h.p.
* * * *
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. is getting its
club-house under rather unusual conditions. A number
of the club members formed themselves into a co., and
bought a parcel of land at Rose Bay. On this-they’ are
erectinga club house, which will be leased to the club at
6 per cent, on the total expended, which, however, must
not exceed £2200. The club hopes to be at home by the
eiid of next month.
* * * *
Germany has decided to go in for no more
Zeppelins for military purposes, and the great fleet of
dirigibles that has haunted the sleep of other nations is
to be relegated to the scrap heap. The short lives of the
Zeppelin monsters, the astounding feats of the recent
soarers, and the amazing success of the aeroplane in the
French army manoeuvres on the plains of Picardy have
convinced the German war-bosses that the big gas-bag is
not a fighting machine in any sense of the word. So now
the Teuton is setting to work with feverish haste to create
a fleet of aeroplanes. The old idea of soaring over an
army and smashing it to pieces by dropping bombs of
high explosives has gone overboard ; the aeroplane may
beused toassaultpositions which cannot be stormed ; but
even that is doubtful. It is as a scouting machine that
the flying man will be utilised —till someone comes along
with the heavier-than-air flying battleship.
* * * »
One of the devices for promoting a better feel-
ing between Britain and Germany is the “Prince Henry
Cup Tonring Contest,” to be run off early in 1911 be-
tween 50 members of the Royal Automobile Club of Eng-
land and 50 members of the imperial Automobile Club of
Germany. The competition is confined to amateur
drivers on their own cars, and will begin in Germany and
end in Britain. King George is to revise the conditions
before they are published. This mixing up of sport and
diplomacy is quite a new idea.
The members of the Automobile Club of Aus-
tralia, as the N.S.W. motorists call themselves, have
been going 1 down heavily for damages, and they are
getting tired of it. Certainly, on the evidence, the
motorists have not been getting a fair deal of, late, and
there is a feeling abroad that the man in the car is under
a cloud. As a matter of solemn truth, the N.S.W. club
consists of very decent fellows who do not scorch or take
risks, and the bulk of their accidents have been sheer
misadventures, to which the injured people have con-
tributed the biggest share of carelessness. So the
motorists are starting a defence fund, and intend to fight
cases in which the club adjudges the car-owner innocent,
and the fight will be to the bitter end. The trouble is
that members of the club are prejudiced by the vagaries
of carmen who are not members, and over whom the club
has no control. For the club itself has gone to a lot of
trouble to impress members with the advisability of
avoiding anything like road-hogging.
* * * *
Motors are compelled by law to carry a tail
light, and presumably all other vehicles are supposed in
a vague way to do the same. But they don’t, and why
any exception should be made passeth understanding.
One morning, recently, two motorists were runningalong
a suburban road about 2 a.m., and, rounding a dark
corner, went smash into the tail of a cart on its way to
market. The occupant of the cart was not injured, but
his vehicle was. Also, the front of a valuable car was
wrecked, two motorists were nearly killed, and'’much
good garden produce was busted. Now the man in the
cart wants damages. If he had only had some sort of
light on the tail-end of his vehicle the smash would not
have occurred. It seems to the writer that the people
entitled to damages are the men in the car.
* * * *
The great Wurrnambool-to-Melbourne road
cycle race—the 14th of the series—eventuates on this
coming Saturday, October 1. Early last week the com-
petitors began to drift into Melbourne and take trial
spins along the road, with a view to discovering its tricks
and peculiarities. Last year no less than 312 riders faced
the starter, and it is understood that this year’s little
lot will he greater. The race will start from Warrnam-
hool at 6 a.m., and T. Larcombe, I. R. Munro and T.
Gascoyne (the scratch trio) will leave at 7 a.m. Gascoyne
is favorite, and if he gets home it will be his first “ Warr-
namhool.” Larcombe won in 1904 and 1907, and Munro
waltzed in first in 1909 after travelling the 165 miles in
7hr. 12min. 51see.
* * * *
This year’s Warrnambool attracted 525 entrants
—a record—and of these no less than 409 have accepted,
easily beating the 373 of 1909. This in spite of the strin-
gent regulations laid down by the Dunlop Co., which
sundry people reckoned would kill the race. No less than
32 inter-State riders are competing ; of these 10 hail from
Maoriland, and they are a formidable-looking lot. There
are seven feeding stations on the road, and four checking
stations. On arrival in Melbourne the riders will find
their own clothes and a hot bath awaiting them. Alto-
gether, the preparations are most elaborate, and the huge
and gruelling ride is shorn of all its after-terrors.
I. It. Munro, one of the scratch men in the
Warrnambool, made a great effort last week to annex the
Dunlop Rubber Co.’s £2O to the man who can eclipse Leon
Meredith’s unpaced 100-mile ride record of 4hr. 52min. 51
4-ssee. Munro chose z. nice run from St. Kilda through Mel-
bourne city and along the Sydney-road ; and to be clear
of traffic made his attempt at 1 a.m., when Melbourne
was practically asleep. The Dunlop Co. provided a car,
and made full arrangements for the checking, timing,
and so forth. The night was clear, and the conditions
all very favorable. But the best Munro could do was
shr. 25min.
* * * *
The Barnet Glass 100-mile road race from Scone
to Newcastle (N.S.W.) on Saturday added more grist to
the wheel of Victorian-rider D. Kirkham. A week ago,
Kirkham gathered in theGoulburn to Sydney event; and
his win from scratch on Saturday was a fine perform-
ance. F. D. Walcott and J. J. Wilson (Vic.) —also scratch
men—were second and third, and the backmarkers
mopped up all the glory and boodle between them.
So John Bull’s lawn tennis authorities have de-
cided to withdraw their challenge for the Davis Cup this
year. The alleged reason is the refusal of the Austral-
asian Association to guarantee £BOO. The English would,
however, have received half the proceeds of the Davis
Cup match, and also of games against two of the States,
while, in addition, the Victorian Ass. had guaranteed ex-
penses for a three weeks’stay in Melbourne, conditional
on their playing in the Victorian championships in No-
vember. There would thus be no danger of the tour
failing to pay expenses. The real reason for the with-
drawal is probably the knowledge that Dixon, Lowe and
Mavrogordato (fine English name !) would not have the
slightest chance of victory against Brookes and Wilding.
America held the Cup three years in succession (1901-3);
then came England’s successes (1904-6), due to the
Doherty brothers ; since then the bauble has for four
years been Australia’s.
* * * ■»
The advance copies of what promises to be a
most useful work of reference are to hand from William
Dymock, of Sydney. “ The Encyclopaedia of Sport ”is to
run to 30 volumes, and include everything, from narwhal
hunting to butterfl}' catching. The first number deals
with aeronautics and motors, and is good business from
cover to cover, written by men who knew their subject,
and illustrated with first-class snap photographs of the
highest grade.
* * * *
Fame comes in various ways. One English
novelist of last century said he never knew what it really
was till he was sent a case of brandy by an unknown
admirer. There is a cricketer who now knows what it
really is. Two events at the Adelaide Show were won
by “ hr. g. Clem Hill,” described as a Maiden Hunter.
w - *
“Whaffor” : E. Manifold, of the Victorian broad
acres, isthe Jonah of the Australian turf just now. Week
after week his mokes just-miss it. Coir, the erratic £5OO
leaper, made things lively for two miles in the Hurdles at
Caulfield lately, then came a cropper at the last fence.
Saddled up for the Steeple, the following Saturday, he
broke his neck. Squirm, another of them, falls meeting
after meeting, just when backers feel like collecting.
Wyangerie, at Caulfield on August 3, was winning by the
proverbial street when he fell at the second last hurdle.
This mad beast just missed winning at Flemington and
Williamstown. Saltare, still another, was left at the
post when heavily backed two weeks ago in a six-furlong
flutter. Mortoa, an Epsom candidate, has a habit of run-
ning second or third or being left at the harrier. And
there are others. It must be an expensive game for
E. Manyacres.
* * * *
Jeremiah Allman, horse-breeder and turfite,died
at Warwick (Q.) lately, aged 67. He was an Irishman,
and let the world know it when he named his nags—
Dan O’Connell, Dillon, Parnell, Kate Kearney, Kitty
O’Shea, Galtee More and Barney O’Hea, for instance.
Also, his stud farm was called the Curragh. The best
horse he ever owned was Narelle, which won the Nor-
thern Derby and St. Leger. But if Narelle was not the
best, then Barney O’Hea certainly was.
* * * *
The totalisator gave itself a fine advertisement
at the last Port Adelaide meeting. Unbacked horses mostly
ran into second place, and their few supporters took one-
fourth of the money in the machine. In one race the
two dividends were £6 Ss. and £8 7s. ; in another, £3 3s.
and £32 lls. In the. Hurdle race, with a field of 19, the
winner paid £3O 15s. and the second £35185. Meanwhile,
the 71 per cent, commission to the Club, which nobody
missed, far more than paid the whole stakes for the day,
and these are to he increased next time accordingly.
As a rule, when the parson rises to denounce
sport, he manufactures gaiety for the more rickety
members of his flock. But on Sunday last a new
type of critic got loose, when the Anglican Dean of New-
castle arose and spoke solemn truth and sound horse-
sense. Defining the difference between legitimate and
illegitimate sport, he hit the nail square on the
head. When a sport becomes a money-making
business, instead of a healthy recreation, it is
an illegitimate sport. Geegee racing he denounced as a
gambling device pure and simple. Which is true. Horse
racing is no longer a sport. It is a gamble in which no
man has much faith in his chances of getting a straight
run for his money, for (the Lord knows why) once a man
begins to make his living out of a horse, that man starts
to degenerate.
* * * *
A crowd of 43,000 thronged Melbourne Cricket
Ground on Saturday to see the preliminary final between
South and ’Wood. In five minutes it was obvious that
South had either to go harder or be passed out; so the
throng settled down to a strenuous game. Briefly, it
resulted as the season’s form indicated it should, Colling-
wood leading up to lemon-time, but only by four points,
which a determined rush by South might easily annul.
Both teams played strong but clean ’ball, the Magpies
showing just a trifle better system, a shade cleaner
handling, an ounce more determination. At the last
change it was still anybody’s game, but they had
no sooner got going than the Magpies buried all doubts.
In 10 minutes they had put on three more goals, and
for a moment South was rattled. But the oldsters
pulled themselves together and scored a goal. Another
attempt took longer, but the six points were gained.
The minutes were running out, and two more goals were
needed. The Red-and-Whites tried another rush, but the
’Wood’s backs held the attackers off till the bell rang—
leaving them winners by 8 goal:: 7 behinds to South’s
6 goals 9 behinds.
* * * *
At North Melbourne the locals were meeting
Brunswick in the semi-final. North, as leader in the
first round, has still another chance, but there was no
suspicion of any “ approachments,” and an 18,000 crowd,
worth £345, got its fill of joy. ’Wick had to win or go out,
so it lost no opportunities. A lead of but a few points lay
alternately with either side until just before lemon-time,
when, like the other Magpies, the ’Wicks put in 10
minutes of paralysing play and piled on three goals.
North came on in the last quarter and equalised the
scores, and an all-out finish ensued ; but, even as the
time-keepers handled their watches, ’Wick spent its last
ounce of energy in an attack that ended in a goal, and
the game was won. Scores : Brunswick, 7 goals 8 be-
hinds ; North, 6 goals 8 behinds.
* •* * *
Prior to the ’Wood-South collision, the Metro-
politan Ass. “ Challengers,” Carlton district, encountered
the Premiers, Leopold, but went down even worse than
the previous week, Leo gaining the pennant with 69
points to Carlton District’s 30. This concluded the
bogging in of the Mets.
* * * ■»
In connection with the recent South and Carl-
ton scrimmage, it is now known that at least four
Carltons were “ approached ” by a “ man in the street,”
whose name and address they omitted to get. Lang
was offered £lO not to do his best, and took
it. He says he never intended not to do his
best, and that he used the cash to back Carlton. The
yarn may be true; but Carlton’s committee suspended
Lang till further orders. Two others were similarly
approached, but the evidence was given privately, and
remains private. The committee acquitted Gillespie,
but hung Fraser up. Another, Marchbank, says he was
offered £lOO if he and three others would play stiff. To
anyone who knows the game, Marchbank is the
last man a sane squarer would approach; and he
naturally told the wouW-be briber to clear. Previously,
Holden, of Fitzroy, had been visited by some
“ unknown,” and offered coin to play dead in ’Roy’s
game against South. He says he refused the offer, and,
significantly, he hadn’t been playing 10 minutes in that
game before he was laid out for the rest of the afternoon
with a punch on the point. Roy’s captain, “Boxer”
Milne, also admits having been insulted by offers of coin.
Milne is like Marchbank—none but a born fool would
waste time trying to deaden him. Brereton and
Pearce, of Melbourne, are alleged to have been “ap-
proached.” The point is that South Melbourne is con-
cerned in all these charges of squaring ; and the rascality
is nothing new, though it appears so to simple-minded
press writers. The League, in making an inquiry, won’t,
therefore, have to cover as much ground with its rake as
it would otherwise have to do.
# * * *
The football troubles in Maoriland over the
Ranfurly Shield this season were very strenuous, but
Auckland slaved off all onslaughts and retained the
jewellery. The recent match with Canterbury was the
star game of the year ; amid the efforts of the ambulance
and the unwholesome hooting; of players, Auckland
just crawled out on top by six points to four. The
casualties were the principal item of the match, and the
crowd of 10,000 wandered away bulging with the belief
that Maoriland football is a good game— a magnificent
game, in fact, to look at.
* * * *
Theregular football season having ended, as far as
Sydney is concerned, the Rugby League put on a benefit
match between Eastern Suburbs and Newtown, the pro-
ceeds to go to the incomparable Messenger. A match
between Newtown (the champions) and Eastern Suburbs
(which everybody believed to be better than the cham-
pions) was interesting, naturally. When the teams met,
Newtown was slightly weakened by the absence of some
of the veterans, but its barrackers reckoned it was still
strong enough to hold its own against “Dailey ” Messenger’s
team. It wasn’t—not by a jugful; and Eastern Suburbs
got it down and danced on it till the whistle blew, with
the score at 33 points to six. “ Spare me days ! ” was
all the Newtown barracker could murmur as he wended
his weary way homeward.
* •» ’ * . ■»
What time the lower reaches of the Brisbane
river were crowded with white wings,'and eights and
fours were struggling for supremacy in the upper basin,
the Rugby Union played the final for the Queensland
premiership. Christian Brothers and Valley bucked in
with enthusiasm, but the game was at no time sensational,
and the altered rules didn’t tend a great deal towards
brightness. Valley hurled itself at the enemy before the
crush started, and within a few minutes, 14 stone of
humanity, named Stanley, blundered over six opponents
and the line. Just before half-time a goal was kicked
and the score of eight points to nil was never altered. In
the second half, Bro.thers got exceedingly busy ; but the
final artistic touch was wanting and Valley holds the
premiership for one year, despite all the power of Rome.
IK* * * *
Maoriland closed its football season with a great
match between the twoislands. These two parties hate
one another, and inter-island engagements are always
bitter and strenuous, so the prophecy that the affair
would be “ unusually fast and exciting ” was fulfilled. It
was very woolly, and South, getting North down, just
managed to rub its nose comfortably in the gutter to the
tune of 14 points to 10.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association has decided to
retain Alec Bannerman as “coach’’for another season,
and to lift his screw from £3 to £3 10s. per week. How-
ever, the employment of a “ coach ” is of little use unless
the Association selection committee Ban-
nerman’s efforts by giving colts a chance in “b'g ”
cricket; and the Association would act reasonably if it
recommended that the selection committee should con-
sult with “ the coach” in choosing representative teams
for the season.
Touching cricket: E. L. Waddy made a good
start by slashing up 107 against Marriekville XV. on
Saturday. Last season this sniiter was a prolific run-
getter, and, judging by his form on Saturday, thescoreis
are likely to be kept extra busy this season also. isut
one can never tell; which is just as well, as there is a lot
of charm in uncertainty. E. F. Waddv, a brother, and
Noble also patted up 40 and 28 respectively ; while Triun-
per, Cotter and Warren Bardsleyall made ducks. It was
ever thus.
* * * *
Grade cricket commences in Sydney this coming
Saturday with 13 first-grade clubs, and 18 in both secona
and third grades. The threatened visit of the*?outti
Africans is looked to with some interest, and should gi\
the game a considerable lift.
* * * *
A novel race helped to fill up a programme at
Svdney Exhibition Building, last week, when champion
skater J. Burleigh undertook to skate eight ™lies, while
Canadian professional ped. J. Fitzgerald padded»
five. It was a good match for a while ; but the s P e ®“-'
Canadian completed his fifth mile when Burleig
onlv traversed his seventh, and thus won comparatlv j
easily. Fitzgerald, who has a good athletic record, is on
the look-out for matches against Australian professions
distance-runners; but, owing to dearth of professiona
ism, the outlook isn’t very promising.
♦ * * *
Died recently at Scone (N.S.W.), Dr. H. J. H-
Scott, much better known as “ Twopenny ” Scott, a nick-
name which he earned through his fondness for patron-
ising the 2d. ’bus during his two visits to London with
the Australian Eleven in 1884 and 1886. He was captain
of the latter team. In Scott’s day four balls were de-
livered to the over, and “ Twopenny ” was the hero of an
oft-told incident at a Yorkshire match, when the crowd
howled for one Wade to be put on to bowl. Scott pasted
him in his first over to the tune of 6,6, 4, 6—22 off four
halls. “Twopenny” was one of a famous triangle <t
Melbourne C. C. amateurs, Billy Bruce and J. W.Trumble
being the other sides.
* # * *
East Torrens district (Adelaide) remarked with
modest pride at its annual cricket meeting last week that
it is the premier club of the premier State of the world s
premier country. Also that, being the home of Mayne,
Crawford, Whitty, the Chamberlains, and all the Hills
except Clem, it would not mind—if it could have the
loan of Clem himself, Gehrs and another bowler repre-
senting the State. Then someone suggested that, if it
could have the loan of Bardslev, Armstrong, Ransford,
and perhaps another bowler, S. Australia would not mind
providing Australia’s XI. all on its own.


Marshall
SHOES
h
233
Placed • • :
side by side
the Output of
the Marshall
Factories : :
would extend
over
THOUSANDS
:: OF MILES ::
GJ The most perfectly appointed fac-
tories in Australia, requiring and
consuming every year ONE
MILLION square feet of Leather
—the Hides and Skins of 150,000
Kids and Goats, Horses and Colts,
Calves and Steers.
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in Stock.
If yours don't, write and we will send you
address of the nearest Dealer, with Catalog.
LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP
MARSHALL SHOE CO.
:: :: MAKERS OF MEN’S FINE SHOES, :: :
RICHMOND, VIC.
Comfortable Shoes for Men!
The man who likes a comfortable, easy-fitting stylish
shoe will be more than pleased with the shoe
illustrated.
It is positively the most comfortable shoe to wear.
It’s a Black Phoenix Calf Derby Shoe.
215., 225. 6d., 255.
Also in Tan, 235. 6d. and 255.
Ditto in Boots. Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
ĥ
Crow's
°F&
DOZ
rC\
*Oi
The “TRIUMPH” Motor Cycle is
worth every penny of what we ask.
What we say about the “Triumph” is backed up by the machine’s
actual road performance.
It runs steadily without undue vibration, is always under control, and
has no intricate mechanism to confuse the beginner. Price is
<£67 10s., and it is worth every penny of the price.
Send for catalogue or call for an inspection.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Oycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
ħ
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Banßers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
StocK and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing: Wool Clip and Wheat Crop*
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being: all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
Bligh. Street, SYDNEY;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
Sydney Marine Court last week was asked
to gaze on a hole in the steam-tug Stormcock and
ascertain what did it. The tug was lashed along-
side a barque off Bradley’s Head, and another
tug, towing a punt astern attached to about a
quarter of a mile of rope, was ambling along on
its own side of fairway. Suddenly the punt,
which was the receptacle for about a million tons
of silt, shot off on a voyage of discovery at right
angles to its tug’s course, but still on the end of the
towline. The Stormcock people saw the drunken
craft coming, and, not being able to prevent it,
let her come. After deeply brooding on the
possibilities the Court found—
1. The punt hit the Stormcock.
2. The Stormcock was hit by the punt.
3. The towline of the punt was miles too long.
4. The punt didn’t have a rudder, arid therefore the
men on it couldn’t be expected to keep clear of shipping.
5. The Court thanked its stars that the punt didn’t
select a crowded ferry-boat instead of an old steam-tug
to bump a cave in, but it may next time unless rudders
are made obligatory.
6. Nobody was to blame.
7. Not even the punt.
8. Adjourn the Court.
Customs Minister Tudor is still wrestling
with the undressed doll question. Lately the
Department demanded 25 per cent, duty on a
consignment of dolls dressed in a hair ribbon. The
importers indignantly forwarded samples of the
young ladies to Parliament House, and wrathful
legislators shook these nude persons in the face of
the blushing Minister, and asked him did he call
that dressed. They further dared Tudor to march
down Collins-street, robed in a hair-ribbon and p,
painted face, and explain to the police that he
was dressed within the meaning of Tariff item
327. Tudor quailed before this form of attack and
went and hid. Yet the trouble was not his, but a
legacy from Best, his predecessor, who became
enraged at the usual methods of the im-
porters. Formally, dolls wearing the first
thing ladies put on were deemed to be un-
dressed ; but the importers began to add
a hair-ribbon here, a stay-lace there, then
frills, then boots and stockings,, sometimes gar-
ment No. 2, till Best wrathfully announced that
no doll'girl could come in as undressed unless she
was undressed, and that undressed meant the
word in its most naked and hussy form.
'■ ~ X
uggcf*.
at Thursday Isiand!’
7-
8
-• rfci&jg
DIVING GOODS
are equal to the world’s best. Our
Diving Dresses, Diving Hose, and
Sundries, are constructed under the
strictest supervision on the latest
methods and of the finest materials.
Correspondence Invited List on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne; 255 Clarence St.,
Sydney; 92 Pirie St., Adelaide , 268-270 Adelaide
St., Brisbane , 67 King St., Perth ; ,
' Christchurch.
h


A. SAUNDERS’ LATEST NOVELTIES
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES, Pocket
Sizp, Morocco-covered body, Perfectly Ad-
justed, Enamel-finished Frame, Achromatic
Lenses, in Solid Leather Case,
25/-
Other Powers, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 30/,
40/, up.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather, Cham-
ois Leather lined, with Extra Division,
Strong Leather Handles,
15/-
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6,
9/6, 10/6, up.
NEW
GOODS ARE
ARRIVING
EVERY
MAIL.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR-CASE, Seal Leather,
Green, Black, or Brown,
French Calf lined, Pure
Silver Mounts,
157-
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6,
15/6, li/6, 20/, 25/.
-A., SAUND3RS.
GENT.’S POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather, Silk-
lined, Pure Silver Mounts,. Lock and Shield,
12 /«.
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6,'2Q/., 25/.
WRITE US YOUR
EXACT REQUIREMENT.
WE CAN SUPPLY IT.
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET SIGHT COMPASS, Oxidised
Brass Case, Paper or Metal Dial. 2in,
12/6, 15/; 2Jin, 17/6, 20/.
Ordinary Styles, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6. 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARVING;
KNIFE AND
FORK, Buck-
horn Handles,
Finest Sheffield!
Steel, strongly
mgde, well finr
ished,
5/6 Per Pair.
Other Styles,
4/6 to 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
INK-STAND, polished English Oak Base, Nickel-plated
Mounts, Crystal Glass Bottles,
12/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
OUR FREE CATA-
LOGUE IS FULL OF
OTHER IDEAS. SEND
FOR A COPY.
A, SAUNDERS.
Collapsible Torpedo COL-
LAR BOX, in real Pigskin,
Seal 7/6. Ordinary Styles,
6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
r
A. SAUNDERS..
NICKEL SHAVING
STAND, with Telescopic
Mirror, Hot-water Bowli,
and Brush, with Round:
Base, 15/.
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6,
S/6. 7.0/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
GENT.’S HAIR BRUSH,
Nicikel-mounted, Nicely
Embossed,
4/6.
Higher Grade, Fine-
q ality Bristles, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING FOLIO, Polished Leather, in
Green or Black, with re-
ceptacles for paper, envelopes, visiting
cards, stamps, etc., also paper-knife, pen,
and pencil. Good strong lock and key,
ISA-
Other Styles, 4/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 20/,
up to 72/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S SET, comprising Cigar and Cigarette Stand,
Ash Tray, and Match Stand, with Plate Glass Base,
27/0.
With Polished Cedar Base, 30/. May be had with Fine-
quality Brass or Copper Mounts.
A. SAUNDERS.
Buckskin TOBACCO POUCH,
Solid Silver Shield, Rubber-
lined, 4/6.
Other Styles, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT’S. BivUSH SET.
containing Brush, long
white bristles, Mirror, and
Comb, in Morocco Leather
Case, 10/6.
With Silver Shield, 12/G.
This Handsome
IS CAREFULLY OILED,
BEFORE BEING
Marble Clock
ADJUSTED, AND TIMED,
DESPATCHED.
' A. SAUNDERS.
HANDSOME PRESENTATION MARBLE CLOCK, height 14in, width 17Jin, Very Highest Quality, Movement
Guaranteed, Free Repair for 3 Years.
£5-
Other Styles, 60/, 00/, 70/, up to £l2/10/.
ACCURATE,
RELIABLE,
LONG-
WEARING.
OF A RARE
QUALITY
AND
VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid
Ebony, Sterling Silver
Mounted, Fine White
Bristles, 15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6,
15/6, 17/6, 20/.
OUR
DISPLAY ,
OF
TOILET
REQUISITES
IS THE
FINEST,
MOST
VARIED,
AND
MODE-
RATELY-
PRICED
IN ALL
AUSTRALIA.
MAY
WE
SEND
YOU
OUR
CATA-
r.nniTE
A. SAUNDERS.
CATTLE KNIFE,
Stag Handle, 3
etrong Sheffield
blades, largest blade
3in long, Quality-
Guaranteed, 4/6-
Larger, with 4 blades,
5/6. Others 1/, 1/6,
2/6, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra High-grade Crush Morocco BAG, Cha-
mois Leather-lined, Extra Inside Division,
Superior Close-fitting Nickel Frame, Strong
Handles, 25/-
Other Styles, 27/6, 35/, 37/6, up to 55/.
■
1 !£ST£ ;1751 Wy SHEFFIELD
A. SAUNDERS.
TABLE CUTLERY, FINEST SHEFFIELD STEEL, ROUND OR SQUARE XYLONITE HANDLES.
JOSEPH RODGERS.
Dessert ..7/9, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6 J-doz
Table ..8/9, 9/6, 10/6, 11/6 J-doz
WINGFIELD, ROWBOTHAM,
AND CO.
Dessert ..3/9, 5/, 7/9, 10/6 J-doz
Table ....4/3, 6/, 8/9, 12/6 f-doz
HARRISON BROS, and HOWSON.
Dessert 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, £-doz
Table 8/6, 9/6, 10/6 £-doz
DESSERT KNIVES, Ivory Handles, from 15/ to 30/ per J-doz. TABLE KNIVES, Do., from 20/ to 45 per
J-do 7. MEAT CARVERS, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, to 15/6, in Stag and Xylonite Handles.
POCKET
CORKSCREW
Nickel Silver,
Best Sheffield,
make, 2/-
MEAT CARVERS. Pure Silver-plated Handles, Knife, Fork, and Steel, Hand-
forged Sheffield Blades, in Silk-Rned Case,
20/.
Similar Designs, with Sterling Silver Handle, 35/, 40/, 42/6. Other Styles in-
Stag, Xylonite, and Ivory. 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, up to 72/6.
Spectacle
Chatelaine,
Morocco
Leather,
S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET SET, Real Ebony, comprising Hair Brush, Cloth
Brush, Mirror, and Comb, Sterling Silver Mounted, with
Extra Long White Bristles, in Silk-lined Case £3/3/-
Without Mirror, 45/.
JEWELLER,
MAKER
X
m
- » SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
e 07.809.811.813.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Srarionl SYDNEY.N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
0 0HSULT//y c


'-J \
\ -r\ IK
feW-j
>K,
x!
Sl
4' 5 fI i ?
M 4*. SMt>
■ I
«■/• -
9V>
*5
to '*
lu-n -w . i -v
■ 3 ■^Sss<>
,-o
SS T^;
N
ART UNION PRIZES.
EVLR before has Australia seen such perfection of artistic loveliness as in the magnificent Tiara and Necklace
Min • , tratal above, the first and second prizes of the Eight Hour Art Union, valued at £5OO and
4-VF\(i v n,*A • 4 r. 1 « ... . .. ’ _
fino , j” » Vjfunmuit Ullli. JUIIU pilAC IllitUC Ul IUUb.
“J hil *n re w ' 1 ! le ’ double-cut diamonds, each star being detachable, ensuring use either as pendant or brooch ;
nue the Coronet can be converted into and worn as a necklace. The Necklace, with Pendant attached, is also of
u tt , pilre whifce > double-cut diamonds, the Pendant also being detachable and used as a
Write for one * C H ° Ur Tlcket8 > 18, each > are obtainable from A. SAUNDERS, and sent post free to any address.
CAPILLARTMF TH E MOUSTACHE PRODUCI
•4
fc*
“CAPILLARINE” IS YOUR FRIEND
5
V
if you cannot, succeed in growing- as fine a mous-
tache as ,vou wish. By following the simple directions
on the label a success is assured you.
Permanency of growth is a feature cf the Capillarine
treatment, and its use is not detectable in any way,
one minute’s application before retiring being all
that is required. 30 years on the market and
still the most reliable.
PRICE,
10s. 6d.
A JAR,
to any address
in the World.
Craig 1 Sc. Ait ken, 654 George St,, Sydney*
Ksr.ahlished 30 Years.
MIDLOW BATH. Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
C° Ho!'5 T \rp?hm.?n! m f!, nt , S 1 h s en n '“ (l . e . hv the ne ' v proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burpress), late of the Grand
tior.el, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during: the forthcoming season.
Snrino- ,?-!!h'nr,, J S I a ° ,C * e ‘V .u esor -' The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
carriages lnd fidhur Uuirs' 6 ” ° f the t‘ lctnreS( l" e - Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
to n S e d an .v time to start from the City Office—or your own residence —direct
ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
nours can t>e spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves,
urtber particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
h
Are You a Bad Writer ?
Many people imagine themselves “ Rad ” writers when the real
fact is that they have never succeeded in getting a pen which suits
them. Here are the pens for all so-called" “Bad” writers!
Ball-Pointed Pens
neither stick in the paper, scratch, nor spurt.
Why ? Because you write on the face of a small Ball. Ball-
Pointed Pens can be had with fine or broad points. Ask your
stationer for a 6d. Sample Box. Commercial Men find them
wonderfully “easy.” Ladies say they are “just delightful.”
ĥ
THE fICCQRDEON for Country Residents.
\
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra qualit}', with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Org’an Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price 6d. •
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra. * ’
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Legal Notices.
I N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
x PROBATE JURISDICTION.
IN THE WILL of JAMES ARMSTRONG, late of Mut-
tama in the State of New South Wales grazier
deceased.
TO ROBERT ARMSTRONG brother of the above-
named deceased formerly of Ardnatinney Omagh
County of Tyrone Ireland, last heard of at Muttama
aforesaid in the year 1892.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that in accordance with
the directions of the Honorable PHILIP WHISTLER
STREET Judge in Probate made herein on the twelfth
day of September thousand nine hundred and ten the
said Robert Armstrong one of the legatees under the Will
of above-named deceased is required to communicate with
SAMUEL HIGHFIELD DICKSON and WILLIAM LITTLE
the executors of the Will of the above-named James Arm-
strong care of the undersigned on or before the Fourteenth
day Qf November next and NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN
that in the event of the said Robert Armstrong failing to
communicate with the said executors in the manner and
at the time aforesaid the assets now remaining in the
hands of the said executors will be distributed on the
assumption that the said Robert Armstrong predeceased
the said James Armstrong AND NOTICE ISFURTHER
GIVEN that all persons having any knowledge of or
having been in communication with the said Robert Arm-
strong since the year one thousaad eight hundred and
ninety-two or having any knowledge of the date or place
of his death are hereby requested to communicate such
information to the said executors care of the undersigned
forthwith.
MORGAN and MORGAN, Solicitors for the Executors
of the said James Armstrong, Central Chambers, Parker
Street, Cootamundra.
By SLY and RUSSELL, 369 George Street, Sydney.
TN THE INTESTATE ESTATE OF THOMAS ABDY,
x LATE OF GYM PIE, QUEENSLAND, FORMERLY
OF ARMIDALE, NEW SOUTH WALES, DECEASED,
INTESTATE.
NOTICE is hereby given to HELEN ABDY formerly
GILIES and HELEN ABDY the wife and daughter
respectively and WILLIAM ABDY a son of the above-
named deceased that an enquiry will be held by the
Registrar of Probates for the State of New South Wales
on the thirtieth day of November next to ascertain who
are the Next of Kin of the above-named Thomas Abdy
deceased entitled to the moneys in the hands of the
Curator of Intestate Estates to the credit of the said
estate. The said Helen Abdy the widow of the said
Thomas Abdy deceased was last heard of in Armidalfe
New South Wales in 1851 and her daughter the said
HELEN ABDY was last heard of in 1868 or 1878 as living
in Victoria and being the wife of a man named Lamb.
The said William Abdy was last heard of in Lawlers West
Australia. Any information regarding the whereabouts
of the above-named persons if living or their representa-
tives if dead will be gladlv received bv the undersigned.
(Signed) T. YV. GARRETT,
Sydney, ' Registrar of Probates.
N. S. Wales.
CAUTION.
Beeckm’s Pills
Chemists, Crocers and the public generally are
warned that unscrupulous persons have lately
been selling imitations of BEECHAM’S PILLS.
" TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.”
We are instructed by the Attorney under power of
Mr. Thomas Beecham, the sole proprietor of
Beecham’s Pills, to publicly notify that considerable
parcels of imitations of Beecham’s Pills have recently
been sold to grocers, dealers and other persons in the
Commonwealth of Australia. These imitations are
put up in a larger box than that sold by Mr.
Beecham, the pills are darker in color, and the
distinctive labels and wrappers are markedly inferior
copies of the genuine ones.
YVe shall be glad if anyone upon whom these imita-
tions have been passed off will communicate with us,
as our instructions are to immediately take legal
proceedings against anyone found selling or endeaVot-
ing to sell or otherwise pass off on the public as
Beecham’s Pills the imitations referred to.
HEDDERWICK, FOOKES & ALSTON,
Solicitors,
BATMAN HOUSE, 103-105 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
A N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
fV HAND and THE BULLETIN. You caryt
do without either, and they both coat the same.
ħ
“Bulldog” and “Imperial” brands of Binder Twines
carry with them the advantages to their users of a firm
guarantee as to both length and quality.
The guarantee we give to users is as follows:-
Quality—Made strictly of “Good Fair Average”
New Zealand Hemp.
Length—Will average 450 ft. to the lb.
Strength—Will average more than 90 lb «.
breaking strain.
Tare—Not to exceed If lb. per bale.
Weight—Every bale to weigh its full marked weight at time of shipment.
At the price quoted 6ld. per lb. the cost per 1000 feet is only 14Nd.
1
p. t Cl3Te« £o
Ihpk
> Binderjl
Twine.
h
*r*
7 •'
L.
tJ
Hull Cfoo
Binder
Twin#
Remember that the cost per
1000 feet is the true test of the
price, and that a comparison of
cost per lb. is generally mislead-
ing, as twines sometimes run as
little as 350 ft. to the lb.
Don't forget that we guarantee
the above statements and are
quite responsible if proved wrong.
Users of other twines sometimes
get what they pay for; users of
our twines always do.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
313 ) ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart, General Agent for Southern Tasmania.


Emaciation
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Scott’s Emulsion perman-
ently cures emaciation in
all its stages. This statement
is made because hundreds of
parents have written to say
their children were cured of
emaciation by Scott’s Emul-
sion. For example, Mrs. J. H.
Years wrote. 16th August,
1909, from corner Stephens
Rd., Botany, Sydney, N.S.W.:
**At 7 months my daughter began to fail,
sufferedr from chest colds, and became very
weak and emaciated. The doctor told me
l would have to use great care to rear her.
ĥ
At 17 months I tried Scott’s
Emulsion, and she at once
began to gain weight and
strength. Appetite improved,
and she ivas soon able to walk.
She is no longer troubled
with chest colds, and is a fine,
healthy child. This trademark
was on the emulsion I bought. ”
If you wish to get rid of emaci-
ation and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Sco 11 ’ s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Emaciation if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
“MAN TO MAN’’
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . , .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
prbportion—protects you against risk of
cofltagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
The
Tie
that ,
iwill not
Crease
IRIS <M
Real Poplin Ties
None 1
Genuine
without
thij
Reg 4 Tab.
h
h
REAL POPLIN
’5Hk& Woo/.
RECP
Obtainable All Mercery
The Safest Laxative
for Delicate People.
To overcome Constipation it is of the utmost importance
to form regular habits daily, so that assistance to nature
may be gradually dispensed with, as the best of remedies,
when needed, are to assist and not to supplant the natura
functions, which must depend ultimately upon proper
nourishment, proper efforts, and right living generally.
The assistance of California Syrup of Figs, while
endeavouring to form regular habits, is most valuable, and
for delicate people, especially women and children, there is
nothing so safe or so truly beneficial.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,’*
■acts with extreme mildness, relieves congestion promptly yet gently,
overcomes sluggishness gradually, tones and soothes the entire organism
and thus encourages, not forces regularity. You can depend upon
California Syrup of Figs to have the desired effect without disturbing the
natural functions and without debilitating, while its flavour is so pleasant
that all children’s objections to medicine vanish at the first taste.
ĥ
When purchasing ask emphatically for
California Syrup of Figs and see that you get
the genuine, which bears this circular trade
mark in blue at the top of the package.
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
ħ
The Ideal Summer
Shoe for Ladies.
Beauty, daintiness, adaptability and ease of fit
were never better exemplified than in the fine
Shoe here illustrated —it is one of the latest and
most fashionable models.
PRICE 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d.; other States, 1/- extra.
GAZEKA SHOE PASTE, in Black and
Brown, large tin, 6d.
Write for Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
Price 16/6
LREMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; 1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. I
h
For Coughs of
all kinds Freeman’s
f —the Original—Chlorodyne brings quick and sure relief. It stops
the trying night cough, enabling the sufferer to secure restful sleep, i
In cases of Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma, and other Chest complaints
FREEMAN’S effects the most gratifying results. 1/IJ, 2/9&4/6 per bottle.
_ Used by Doctors all over the World. Refuse imitations, which
cannot possibly possess the wonderful healing powers of Freeman’s.
MARK
If your chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle,
_ he can quickly
get it
FREEMAN'S
CHLORODYNE
DEVELOPMENT !
26-
Nature intended woman to possess a Bust
Measurement in proportion to her height.
Are you deficient ? Let us tell you
how FLESH-FOOD develops the bust
to normal and increases the weight.
Send 2d. Stamp for Full Particulars
and FREE SAMPLE of Treatment.
Falliere Flesh - Food Co.,
Pept. 5, Linden Court, Sydney ,
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
m
w
MORRIS'S \
ireeWltdies
> nwwstn?..
10
error
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Henry Horsecollar”: Be this clamor about
the alleged handiness of the half-crown, it seems to me
that correspondents are either barking up the wrong
tree, or else, in their haste to bark up one tree, they have
quite overlooked other trees which badly require to be
barked up. Many things are wanted in the way of coin-
age, and one of them is a coin worth Is. 4£d. Assuming
that you have that, then when you are paying Is. 4jd.
you will only require one coin instead of four as at pre-
sent; and when you are paying 4s. lid. you will only
want three coins instead of four; and you could pay
(Is. 10id. with five coins instead of seven ; and 11s. 4id.
with two coins instead of five ; and £1 Is. 4id. with two
coins instead of five. And think of the blessing and ad-
vantage of having a coin worth 7s. 7jjd. Then you could
pay 15s. 2Jd. with two coins, whereas now you have to
use at least seven. And man—that dry, pronged animal
that the fish contemned because he went horribly on the
land perpendicular and without fins—seems to spend
most of his life paying 15s. 2|d., or else dodging payment
ofit - *
Brother Jonathan doesn’t trust to luck or even
to patriotism to man his navy. He advertises like this
“When you are 17
you will either be going to college or to work. If at that
age you cannot afford a four years’ college education,
think about a four years’ education in the U. S. Navy.
“ You can enter the Navy at the age of 17. You can
enlist for four years. During those four years you can
learn seamanship, electrical engineering, mechanical
engineering, etc.
“ During your spare time, and you have plenty, you
can study correspondence school courses on any subject
you like.
“You will receive the finest physical training in the
world ; see some of the United States, perhaps some of
the world, though the amount of travel depends on where
you happen to be stationed.' You will have a chance to
save some money, as nearly all your expenses are paid
and you get regular wages.
“ If you like the Navy and wish to stick to it there are
o-ood chances for promotion and increased pay.
“ The Navy Department doesn’t urge any young man
to enlist. It merely suggests that you investigate the
subject and decide for yourself whether or not you care to
try four years as a bluejacket. Our booklet, ‘ The Making'
of' a Man-o’-Warsman,’will tell you everything you-want
to know about work, play, pay, promotion, etc., in the
Navy. You can have it free if you address
“ BUREAU OF NAVIGATION
“ Box 48, Navy Department, Washington, D.C.”
Exactly what the British Lords of the Admiralty think
when they read things like that this paper doesn’t know ;
but it fancies it hears an apoplectic gurgle or two.
* *■ * *
The Renmark irrigation township, in S. Aus-
tralia, proposes to pave its streets with beer. It hasonly
one pub, owned by the community, and managed by a
committee elected by the whole people ; and one of the
planks of the successful party in a recent fight was the
earmarking of 25 per cent, of the profits for road-making
purposes. * ■ * # *
The South Aus. Chamber of Manufactures has
made “Show Week” coincide with its own show.
“ Manufacturers’ Day ” in Adelaide is now firmly estab-
I fished ; on that day (which is often a week) over 250
shops in the city, and as many more in the suburbs, show
nothing at all in their windows but Australian goods.
| Governor Bosanquet and other leading men form parties
to go round and inspect, and the thousands of country
visitors down for the Agricultural Outbreak do the rest.
At the inevitable luncheon this year Premier Verran
mentioned that his Government had passed a minute
that nothing which can he got in the Common-
wealth is to be got outside. Acting-mayor Simpson
claimed for little S. Aus. the largest furniture
factory, the largest saddlery factory, and the
largest clothing works in Australia, as well as the
largest salt-refining works and wineries. Vardon, presi_
dent of the Chamber, hoped boldly that soon there would
be no “Manufacturers’ Day” at all, because “on every
day in the year the shops would be filled with Australian-
made goods.” (Loud applause, some of the noise being
make by the Very Naicest people stamping the floor with
imported boots.)
*.*.**
Advt. from Miles, in way-back Queensland
iTTANTED a Man to hairdress and able to repair
VV boots, 255. per week, or to rent the place, 15s.
per week ; only a good, steady man need apply.
Apply to So & So, Miles.
Presumably, if some shiftless, degenerate Australian, who
can cut hair, shave chins and mend boots, rents the place,
he may also put in spare time at sign-writing and repair-
ing the township’s clocks.
» * * *
“ Platman ” : The latest feat of the shipping
cos. which trade to North Queensland is rather humor-
ous. When I applied for a ticket the clerk said curtly,
“Sign, please, accepting the conditions.” “But I
haven’t seen any conditions,” I replied; “ where are
they?” “On the back of the ticket.” “Oh, then I can
study them on the way down.” And that ended it. I
remember, in a case in which plaintiff secured heavy
damages for injuries caused by falling through an open
hatch, Judge Chubb made some pointed remarks re cer-
tain shipping conditions. The average traveller is really
and truly at the mercy of the cos. Against a private
railway monopoly he can do something; he can walk,
even on the co.’s sleepers. But the track of a shipping
co. is protected by sharks, saltwater and other unpleasant
substances. The Fisher Government might devote a few
minutes to a study of the conditions on the hinder part
of these remarkable tickets.
GLASS WINDOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Britain will contribute four stained-glass windows to
the Palace of Peace at' the Hague. —Daily paper.
With thunder-stroke and rending rattle,
And bar and plate of furnaced steel,
Bull girds him ready for the battle
With twelve-inch gun and Dreadnought keel.
By giant forges redly leaping
The hammers on his harness play,
And happy England, wake or sleeping,
Is wrapt in cordite night and day.
About his outer paddock fences
A line of corpses may be found, ,
Dead niggers who, on false pretences,
Would trespass on Bull’s private ground.
If niggers will not quit their capers,
The frontier graveyard still is near,
And wars that don’t get in the papers
Sprinkle with blood the changing year.
Small Indian matters, mostly tribal,
Some Pathan rising “ firmly met,”
Bull hands his savage foe a Bible,
And backs it with a bayonet.
Now universal love is mooted,
And warfare is a thing accurst ;
But, though his faith is firmly rooted
In peace, he’ll see the rest go first.
Still, just to show his good intention,
Four large, fair windows will he stain
With emblematic signs that mention
How war and bloodshed give him pain.
Frail glass, of peace a fitting token,
To stand an hour in light and sun,
An emblem of a hope soon broken
By one far echo of a gun.
But giant forges redly leaping,
And strong steam-hammers night and day
In blackened temples, never sleeping,
For England’s peace and honor pray.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Beale
Grand Prix
(London)
Pianos.
TO INTENDING PIANO BUYERS
Having decided that you will only have a piano with the best tonal qualities, and the
BEALE PIANO answering all requirements in that respect, as attested by the award of
THE GRAND PRIX,
you next consider the question of the permanence of the instrument, i.e ., its lasting musical
qualities. Here the BEALE PIANO meets requirements to a greater degree than any
other. By the nature of its construction it is the most durable piano manufactured. In
foreign instruments the wrest-plank, or block which holds the pins to which the wires are
strung, is made of wood, and fitted into a space in the iron frame. In the BEALE
PIANO the pin-block is cast solidly with the iron frame, and is part and parcel of it. The
strength of the BEALE PIANO, and therefore its durability, is obvious.
The difference in the pin-blocks naturally means a superiority in the tuning system. In
the wooden pin-block the pins are driven in from the front. They depend entirely upon the
pinch of the wood to hold them against the stress of the wires, whose total strain is about
twenty-five tons. In the Beale metal pin-block the pins are fitted from behind, and controlled
by tension studs on strict mechanical principle. Our tuning system is the only positive and
truly scientific method yet invented. Tuning is the perfection of smoothness and simplicity.
It was for this frame, with the patent pin-block and tuning system, that the
DIPLOMA OF HONOR
*
(next to the Grand Prix) was awarded at the Franco-British Exhibition. In the 13,000
Beale Pianos now in use there are 2,800,000 pins, and every one acts with precision.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3 D G“p s o!) om 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G. P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories: Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years ’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save importers 9 Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


I
m
r\Y
m
2
fj
: W
n :
fe;
Mr
■
»
i
ew
.
■
m
Y-':.
Pal
5 -v..
/
':i-
-’ I
‘ ' ,/V/‘
v
:
!
iggg
ESs
:.. f
a
m
m :
pr
sf* 1
a < fa
■ft 'fejitj ißirlli ®2
-
■ . ■". ■ ■ ■ ■
y ■ - .* ;
■I
-
m
■k:
ill!
aa
Mqffipfi&i
HI
—fWM
.1
Mg3ffiwWBH»P^ W ' "
'■ ■
ill fJFJi
r ;?•. •■"
I
IIIF#i
' --v' ■■'■.■■ fl: I
M
K
■p*
J
K
H
I
mmm
M
r
3
m
. %
m
r
m
i
2
'!
;
w
■
s
.
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
W WEST AUSTRALIA. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, " 1 >
and all porLs in each
AUSTRALIAN STATE
see da
ADELAIDE S. C° LTP A.U.S.N.C 0 LIMITED
OFFICES & AGENTS AT ALL PORTS


A FEW DONTS.
IF you wish to preserve your hair and keep it healthy—
DON'T wash or apply water to it every day, as these have a most exhausting effect
on the Scalp and Circulation of the Hair.
DON’T forget to use the brush, as brushing the hair promotes the circulation, and a good
circulation is conducive to a healthy growth of hair.
If your Scalp is dry and covered with Scurf.
DON'T think for a moment that washing it with Soap is going to cure it—AS IT
WON’T. The cause lies deeper than the surface, and wants skilful treatment to remove it.
And Remove It You Must, or you will lose your hair, as a congested scalp always means a
weak circulation of the hair.
If your hair is falling out, DON’T
use Quack Nostrums. When a person fails
at other callings, he invariably turns to
making up preparations for the hair, which
he knows Absolutely Nothing About. Treat-
ing the hair is a fine field for exploitation for
these people who cannot make a living at
other work. They make a general cure-all
of a pinch of Borax, a drop of Glycerine
and two drops of Ammonia—for which they
charge three or four shillings. —See Govern-
ment Report.
Treating the Scalp and Hair is my
Life’s Work. I have given 33 years of
study to the Hair and its Treatment, and
the information acquired is at your disposal
in treating your hair.
Wonderful Testimonials
can be seen at my consulting rooms, proving
that my treatment is successful if used for a reasonable time.
Scalps which have been nearly bald for years are now growing a good, healthy crop of
hair.
Mr. Cummings writes from S.A. : “ My hair is getting on first rate.”
Mr. Johnson writes from Queensland : “I have used your treatmemt for a few months,
and my hair is growing real good.”
Mr. Crosby, Sea Lake, Victoria, writes: “Two years ago I had no hair on the top of
my head ; now, thanks for your wonderful remedies, I have a splendid crop of hair.”
m
MM
K
Gentlemen who are going bald should use SPECIAL PARASENE and COSMO
LOTION, one at night and the other in the morning.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment) : Victoria, 10/6 ; four months, 20/-.
Other States, 11/6 and 22/=
Ladies with hair falling out should apply RESTORER at night and COSMO
LOTION in the morning. Price 11/6 and 22/=
NATURALINE is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. It acts quickly,
naturally and effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the
right strength.
No. i for Light Brown Hair; Medium
or Medium Brown Hair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ;
Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
Price : Victoria, with postage, 6/3.
Other States, 6/8.
SHAMPUNA
NO SOAP, NO SODA,
NO BORAX.
All these hair-destroying things can be
dispensed with in. washing the hair.
Nature supplies the remedy, SHAMPUNA cleanses the hair beautifully, and
leaves it soft and glossy, and does not extract the natural pigments from the hair. It does not
sap the vitality of the hair, but helps to make it grow while you are washing it. Price 3d.
per packet, by post 4d.
ALL CHEMISTS.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
(Messrs. Pattinson & Co—all Branches).
E. HOLLAND,
Scalp and Hair
Specialist,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ĥ
Is the Australian Disliked?
V
DISLIKED -a nasty word. People don’t mind being hated, but disliked I
Yet that is the charge which Ernest Low brings against the Australian
type in the October “ Lone Hand.” He gives his reasons, too. Foster
Fraser never went quite so far as this new critic. The article is worth reading,
even if only to disagree with it. The main charges are “skite” and “unreliability,”
with an echo of the South African notice : “No Australians Need Apply.”
But the article is answered by a sturdy believer in the Australian
character, J. H. M. Abbott. A hard-hitting, yet humorous reply. Read the two,
and judge. The'subject concerns YOU. .
Other Articles that must not be missed in this number our best to date;
THE CHILDREN’S COURT : A unique and little-known court in Sydney, where child offenders are treated not as
criminals, but as children.
GOOD AUSTRALIANS: “The Lone Hand’s ” monthly Order of the Wattle conferred upon those citizens who have
merited well of the Commonwealth.
DR. fIORRISON : The astonishing career of a great Australian journalist.
THE RACIAL TRAGEDY OF JAVA : A remarkable article about a little-known country that will prove interesting
to every White Australian.
TWO LABOR DIGNITARIES: Character sketches of the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House
who would not wear wigs.
HOW TO FAIL ON the LAND : An object-lesson to those who contemplate taking up a selection.
ħ
FIVE. BIG STORIES: The most remarkable is a splendid Golf story, entitled “The Greatest
Match Ever Played,” by Aldridge Evelyn, with a striking frontispiece by Norman Lindsay.
Altogether twenty-eight items in this month’s issue.—Look out lor the heliotrope cover.
On Sale Saturday, October 1. Price, 6d.
XJ
v


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦ Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 t.o £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to ±,31 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERh.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany’s Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mkuiournk Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
ADF.tAiDR & Krkmanti.b Aoknts : GEO. WILLS & GO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAN D.
Fitted with V. ’reless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Si it le Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts a..d Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
j)ank of ||orth Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
gank qf |)ew Z ea,an < l -
- BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. ••
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£2.000,000
£500,000
£864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
at Interest for
fixer! periods, and
Bnnkiiur busin'-y.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - • £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED - - - - - £1,042.960
PAID-UP - - • - - • £958,172
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Philip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. •• £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
£750,581 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. r.
Gen Mngr.: Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
•y agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. •• •• •• 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable,lnscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAMES MUNRO, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A.
J CALI.AN, Esq., M.L.C. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ;
JAS. MILNE, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
The golonial mutual Life
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hot., C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Sujddms
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
Nord D
eutscher
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless” installation.
* Arriving in London in jrood time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR ■ WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetoum. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
* Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£112 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONBON.
h
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12.000 tons, to sail on
October 1.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 26.
SUEVIC, PEItSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Sijjnalliii};- Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 do £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 Do 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
MonDreal, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Ueceived Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
ĥ
WINTER TOURS
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Nov. 4, Dec. 16 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Oct. 21, Dec. 2 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK.
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
3®
DIRECTORS:
£2,500,000
£1,750,000
£2,500,000
£6,750,000
The Hon. C. I\. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MaeLaurin, lit., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 305 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua; and Agents and Correspondents
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the W T est Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Insurance, &c.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Svdney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L. A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-et., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esa., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager,
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scanf>
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Business Announcements.
Early Spring
Suiting's.
WE'have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us.
We have received the first two consign-
ments, and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM § CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not a vice, but a disease—happ lv one that is curable.
DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (lie gistered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.) is acertain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS : 5t Russell Street,
Melbourne; 1161 Hay Street, Perth,W.A. [l
Shipping. !
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPS.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Forts*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Oct. 15
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connecl}-
in<r with Koombana,
leaving Fremantle oli
Oct. 31 for North-West
Ports.
BRISBANE
11ACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oii
S.S. Innamincka, Oct.. 8.
S.S. Allin<ra, Oct. 15.
S.S. Grant.ala, Oct. 22.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on Vi
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE. j
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.—H. —vS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ESSEX,”
11.300 Tons. T. Priske, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 18th Oct.
~ „ „ SYDNEY ~ 25th Oct.
~ „ .. MELBOURNE „ Ist Nov.
„ „ „ ADELAIDE „ Bth Nov.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape arid (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and I
LIVERPOOL., f
£49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane;
H. JONES &CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
'EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
o. &
89
ħ
Zaw Points
Inventors
BY LETTER. Iteliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning' the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish;to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it, is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially. *
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.


§£ Britisb-flusfralasian
«•
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d«
POST FREE, £t per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the .Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
AWfcNT atv^
Wo Wot\\et s\vo\x\& \>e vyivVaoxit Yt
h
V
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
ĥ
15=17 Market Street, Sydney
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES —IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd.
ħ
Gold - Mounted
Barling Pipes
in all the latest designs and shapes. These are
really beautiful goods—the latest product of
England’s premier pipe manufacturers.
The gold bands are a trifle narrower than in
illustrations.
They will make grand presentation souvenirs.
10/6. 13/6, 14/6, 15/-. 16/6 each.
Soft cases for same, 2s. extra. Add Gd. for
postage. Write for illustrated pipe catalogue—
it’s free.
Andrew McGee,
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist and
Oentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 8 7 Castlereagh St., corner of Hunter St., Sydney.
h
POLKEY MOTOR LAMPS
ALL BRITISH.
ACETYLENE and ELECTRIC.
Supplied from stock. Write for Catalogue.
SCHEELE 8 GIBBES, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Demonstrator Agents Wanted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating
on ordinary lamp oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for
farms, shops, and all power purposes. Electric lightingoutfits. Pumps and Pumping
outfits. Sawing outfits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse Gears. Sizes 2-h.p.
toioo-h.p. One to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. I.iberal |
commissions paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely
finished demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed
FREE. Write for our proposition to agents and users of power. Bank references given.
Detroit Entrlno Works. 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
ĥ
TRADE
ħ
MARK
This Mark distinguishes
The Most Perfect Bicycle
in the World.
This can be secured to you by your having one built
to your order specifying that every component part
shall be
Genuine B.S.A.
Do not, however, stop at specification—see that your instructions are carried out.
Make it an absolute condition that the trade mark of the “3 piled
rifles” shall appear on every part. We pul it there for your protection.
Get a B.S.A. Handbook and read all about our latest Australasian model
fittings, the improved Eadie Coaster Hubs, Two-
Speed Gears, Free Wheels, &c. Then you will
be able to get a bicycle built for you that will embody
everything that is best in cycle construction, a bicycle,
in fact, that can justly be described as “the most perfect
in the World.”
Handbooks free from
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building,
MELBOURNE.
h
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free. ;
Anthony Hordern O. Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
©
M 2 5
s''i
m
m.
The “Bijou” for Home Billiards.
The 44 Bijou ” is an ideal table for home billiards, fitted with slate
bed and fast-running cushions, and covered in superfine billiard cloth
and beautifully finished. By a simple adjustment of leaves it is readily
converted into a fine dining-table. Easy terms arranged if desired.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth.
%
%
&
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat"
:: :t Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
An EDISON
Phonograph and
Ten Records,
complete, for
Even though you may not be able to sing
or play yourself, you can still appreciate the
musical excellence of the Edison Phonograph
—the most popular, the sweetest and clearest
of all sound-reproducing instruments.
One of the most popular models is tho
Edison “Gem” Combination Phonograph
(plays both Two- and Four-minute Records),
and you can purchase one complete, with six
Amberol (Four-minute) Records and four
Standard (Two-minute) Records for the small
sum of £4. Any Edison dealer will supply you,
and you can have your own choice of Records
from the thousands included in our lists.
If you do not know the address of a store
handling Edison Phonographs and Records,
write us direct, and w>- will mail you complete
catalogues, including thela test listsof Records.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
£4.
ĥ
The Beauty of the Plum is its Reliability.
It always gives a quick, clean shave, and leaves a
velvet chin. That’s the PLUM RAZOR. Being
hairdressers, we know how to give a razor the
“ shaving edge ” that is so necessary.
We guarantee for two, years, and keep it in
shaving ordc r for that time. , i
Single Razor, in Strong Care, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Cther good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Price 10/6
Post Free
Anywhere.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Craig 8 Aitken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.


A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble and
Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appre-
ciate good advice, and we are glad, therefore, to
be able to publish the following from a prominent
physician.
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of
kidney trouble and other diseases, such as rheu-
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some form. The most dangerous feature
of this disease is the fact that many people have it
without their knowledge, and consequently neglect
i t until it has reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must be given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a
prescription which we have seldom know to fail
in any case. It contains no harmful ingredients,
is pleasant to take, not expensive, and can be
supplied by any good chemist. It is as follows :
Tincture Gentian Compound, oneounce; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce; Liquid Barkola Compound,
one ounce ; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bedtime.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few
weeks, it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for rheumatism, kidney and bladder
trouble, backache and all allied complaints.
Note.—Other papers are privileged to copy the
above. —Advt.
Confomat” Hard Hat
“ THE ACME OF COMFORT.”
'HE highest grade HARD HAT, hand-made in a
special way from the choicest materials; con-
forms to the head, making it most comfort-
able and easy-fitting even when new, and fits any
shaped head. Exceptionally light, very durable,
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED.
Price 13/6.
In all the newest Season’s Styles. Stocked by
Leading Retailers throughout Australia. Try one.
Insist upon having the genuine best with the
Trade Mark “ Confomat ” stamped on the leather.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills. Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne,
EEGD.
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without tbe Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each, Bottle.
ħ
IN
BANANA LAND
The last of Toolburra station, the first run
occupied on the Darling Downs, was sold the
other day. Toolburra was the first property
bought by the Government under the Repurchase
Act of 1894 ; but the owner retained a scrap of it,
and this was the piece that was sold recently.
Some people who evidently don’t believe
that the white man can’t live up North, are going
to give the trout, essentially a cold-water fish, a
chance to try the climate there and help to
further explode an old myth. The Queensland
Government has sent some ova to Herberton, and
the Sportsman’s Club, of Charters Towers, has got
5000 rainbow trout ova from Maoriland.
Of the mighty firm of John Collins and
Sons, land-absorbers and cattle-owners, only R.M.
is left. John, the founder of the firm, went first;
then son William, who died early last year; and
now J.G. The third son, R.M., the sole survivor,
represented Albert in the Queensland Assembly
for a while, but couldn’t spare the time from the
more fascinating job of counting his bullocks.
A special breed of lantana is credited, at
Cairns (N.Q.), with producing in local stock that
mysterious disease known as “ pink nose.” This
vegetable devil, which was originally imported to
Australia by a Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) parson
as'a hedge plant, has hoofed it right up the coast
to North Queensland, and founded a dynasty or
board of control over practically 2000 miles of
country. Some areas have become “lantana
sick,” just as others become “ banana sick,” and
others, again, “Chow sick,” though the latter
trouble is one of the very few that doesn’t spread
as quickly as it should.
Governor Macgregor orated recently at
the annual meeting of the Queensland Charity
Organisation Society in this fashion: “The
poor have always been with us, are always with
us f and always will be.” Why this everlasting
assumption that poverty always has been and
always will be? As a matter of history, there
have been many races that have known neither
poverty nor riches; thus, if Prescott is to be
believed, more than one powerful nation in South
America existed happily under a system of State
Socialism, and knew absolutely nothing of desti-
tution. But Fat loves the statement that poverty
will always be with us because it implies that
Wealth must be an eternal institution.
“ San Remo ” rings in some parsons :
There are a few parsons in the north of Queensland
who occasionally chase the sweater with an irreverent
brickbat, and I am reminded of some of them by the
proposal in New South Wales to make Saturday the
general half-holiday. Years before the Queensland Shops
and Factories Act was passed the Rockhampton shop-
assistants put up a fight for the Saturday half-holiday,
and most of the clergy took off their coats and waded in
A voluntary agreement was come to, but
was broken in three weeks by blacklegging and sweating
shopkeepers. Bishop Dawes (Anglican), just dead,
was one of the most strenuous battlers for the agree-
ment. He wasn’t satisfied with praying for the sweater
in the pulpit, but mounted the public platform to
deal with him from a. secular point of view. One
night the Bishop was holding forth on the evils of
late shopping to a large audience, and painted a lurid
picture of the wearied shop-assistant struggling to satisfy
Mrs. Upper Crust at 9.45 p.m., Saturday. In his best
Oxfordian drawl he described Mrs. Ruck (or Mrs. Snag
or Mrs. Nark) ordering down bale after bale, box after
box, packet after packet, until the counter and the floor
looked as if an earthquake had upper-cut the establish-
ment ; and then languidly remarking that she would
prefer to see the goods by daylight, as the colors were
so deceptive under an artificial light. “With which re-
marks ” said the Bishop, “ Mrs. Ruck glides away
to the tea-rooms, where she probably keeps the
unluckj- refreshment girl attending her until 11
p.m.” The sally was greeted with uproarious ap-
plause, becaule it was well known that Mrs. Bishop
was a Ruck in Class A, and the large number of shop
assistants present thought the Bishop was rubbing it in
to his worse half. Unfortunately, a good, kind cat told
the lady all about it next day, and the story goes that
the Bishop got the thick end of what followed. But
clerics, like whisky brands, vary. I remember a parson
whose wife was a notorious late shopper on Saturday
nights, and an almighty Nark at that, and her parcels
had to be delivered if it was 1 a.m. on Sunday when they
arrived. Next door to the parson lived a man who pro-
fessed agnosticism, and these two wheeled into the
middle of a scrap that was raging as to “ Why People
Don’t Go to Church.” Between them they threatened
to flood out the local press with their letters on the
subject. The man of sin was getting a bit the worse of
the'deal when his luck was turned by a new-chum carter
knocking him up about half-past one on a Sunday morn-
ing to ask if Rev. —— lived there. Next day the en-
raged unbeliever tore into the evening paper with a
letter headed: “One Reason Why Some People Don’t
Go to Church—Because They’re Kept Out All Night De-
livering Sunday Hats for Parsons’ Wives.” The dis-
cussion suddenly dropped dead, and the assumption was
that the parson had taken his 10 seconds on the floor.
The members of the counter jumping pro-
fession of Queensland will keep a kind
thought for the departed Gaiters, Bishop
Dawes. It was at Rockhampton that he
put up his best fight for them and their
Saturday half-holiday, and won. One evening he
broke a meeting right up by depicting the woes
of a worried shop-assistant handling a “ruck”
(tough female customer) at 9.50 on a Saturday
night. The Bishop drew such a vivid picture of
the “ ruck ” and her ways that all Rockhampton
believed it recognised the lady at the first look.
She was—or Rockhampton believed she was—the
lady the Bishop had the best right to rebuke
either in public or in private.
Brisbane Courier is having no luck.
Lately it opposed the suggestion to found a co-op-
erative hog factory because, it said, private con-
cerns were paying ever so much more for pigs than
the Byron Bay (N.S.W.) concern, the biggest dis-
play of co-operative hog effort in Australia.
Then along came Byron Bay with figures to show
that it paid £d. more per hog-pound than any
private factory. Here the Courier dropped pigs
and deplored the Commonwealth Land Tax, and
predicted—as the Tory sheet has been predicating
for years—that Capital would take his shekels
and fly away forthwith. Simultaneously, and
evidently to prove its words, it announced that a
half-dozen big wool firms had decided to erect
very large stores in Brisbane.
HER ADDED RESPONSI-
BILITIES.
EMPLOYED: “ Want a rise in salary ?
Why, your work hasn't increased .”
LADY CLERK: “No, sir; but I've a
husband to support now."
Warwick gave Arthur Morgan, who has
left there to live in Brisbane, a great send-off the
other night. The pretty Downs town is very
proud of Morgan, and credits him with much of
its progress. He was born there, was mayor five
times, owned and edited its paper, and with the
exception of one Parliament—he didn’t go up for
election that time—represented it from 1887 till
1906, when he gave up his seat and the Premier-
ship to become president of the House of Fossils.
“Wonga,” regarding “The Leak in the
Big Tank ” (B. 22/9/TO)
There’s another side to the matter of the leak in the
big tank, noted by “ Atacamite.” While it is true that
the present method of handling our artesian water-supply
is more wasteful than a “Liberal” Administration, the
big question is, Can the flow be regulated? Sundry
artesian water experts say NO in a ver3 r decided tone.
Some years ago the Bananaland Government instructed
one of its engineers to put a tap on a newly-opened bore
for purposes of regulation. Said officer did it, though he
felt very chary about it. Orders were to “turn her off ”
for 24 hours and note the effect; but after the flow had
been stopped for about half an hour, the water started
coming up the sides so strongly that orders were broken
and the tap removed. It’s a risky business playing the
goat with bores running down hundreds and thousands
of feet, and experimenting with a force whose power
isn’t too well understood. There are other warnings to
go slow. Every bore has w'ater coming out on the surface
outside the casing. The fact is that the best-sunk bores
leak. It is a practical impossibility to make the joints so
that they won’t, unless a beetle or a State insect is
trained to go down the casing inside, with a soldering
iron.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 24, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Macgregors are at Bundaberg, or were
until this evening. There has been a carnival in
the town that alleges it is the only decently laid-
out one in the State, and there have been high
revels in and around Bourbon-street. How Bun-
daberg came to get wide streets and a public
spirit is yet a mystery which his Ex. may be able
to explain when he returns, for he has a way of
getting to the bottom of things. Next week, he
will convey his women-folk to Southport, where a
salt water carnival will be in progress,
It’s really dreadful the way women’s minds will
run to clothes. They are not even content to deck
themselves out. but are turning their attention to
the beautification of man (and Heaven knows he
needs it, I say to myself). The latest local outbreak
is a cope for Archbishop Donaldson to open the
red-headed cathedral in. If you don’t know what
a cope is, it’s very like a bath gown of white bro-
cade with wide revers of red, worked in roses and
seven-pointed, each of which take half a decent
working day to embroider. It’s also rather like
a nightie. However, this one, along with
a case to pack it in, and an address (touched up
with gorgeous poinsettia flowers by the clever
fingers of Miss Macauley Turner) was handed
over to the churchman by the Archdeacon on
Thursday, at the new Deanery. Here, Mrs. Dean
Pattinson fed the multitude on the verandah and
in her pretty rooms full of old china and silver.
The new deanery, by the way, is the old Adelaide
House, from which Sir George Bowen read the
proclamation declaring Queensland a colony. The
ancient relic, now quite rejuvenated, stands on
the cliff next the Cathedral, and has one of the
most lovely views in the city. The clever fingers
which worked the previously hinted-at embroi-
dery belong to Mrs. Hugh Simmons and the
Misses Bertha Wassell and M. Bolton, while the
jewels—amethysts, of course—were given by
Major San key. The garment was mainly an
offering from wives of clergy and a few well-
dowered countrywomen.
Dave Bowman, the honest leader of the State
Labor party, is an inmate of the Mater Hospital,
and things didn’t look too bright. He has hoed a
hard row, full of big fights and abuse, and not all
of it from his traditional enemies. Quite recently
he lost his daughter, and now, after much suffer-
ing from a throat complaint, he has had a slight
hemorrhage on the brain.
Everyone is busy telling everyone else in stage
whispers that a third party has discovered a gold
mine on the very spot where the new Government
House was to be ; and now, instead of a few men
levelling a foundation, there may be millions of
hungry prospectors spoiling the place with holes. I
wonder what they will call the field. Kidston’s
Folly, perhaps, because the Premier rejected it as
a site for the University. Just think how con-
venient it would have been, with its own School
of Mines in its own back yard, digging up its own
revenue, “and no further worry,” as the advt. of
the Perfection washing machine puts it.
The ways of Anti-Sosh are weird. That un-
certain object which calls itself the P.P.L., and
is in reality Kidston and Co.’s canvassing com-
mittee, promoted a lecture one night lately, when
the evils of unions and wages boards were dis-
cussed. The chairman apologised for the fact
that there were only about 15 people present,
though they had sent out 140 invitations, and put
it down to other attractions—a picture show and
a church meeting. At first, the excuse seemed
feeble; but, after listening to the mourners, I
came to the conclusion that there were 125 sen-
sible folk in South Brisbane. If I had to choose
between that meeting and listening to 64 junior
Eisteddfodders singing “My Mother Bids me
Bind my Hair,” I’d choose the hair.
De Burgh Persse, as ancient a squatter as the
Albert River holds, had a birthday party at Tab-
ragalba this week. Whatever else De Burgh may
lack, it isn’t grandchildren, for there are six little
Joyces, one little Charlie, the Burgo twins, and
one little Fitz-Joyce, as well as a round dozen of
cousins and their lawful possessions in the way of
wives. I hear that D. T. Seymour, Queensland’s
first Police Commissioner, was also in the party,
his qualification being a friendship of something
like 47 years. He came out a gay young officer
of the 12th Regiment of Foot somewhere about 50
years ago, and has been on the pension-list 15
years.
A concert in London, given by Melba, Frederick
Brandon and an orchestra under Landon Ronald,
served as a debut for the Brisbane contralto, Evie
Doyle, a young person of prepossessing appear-
ance and golden notes, whom Melba took under
her wing on her last Australian trip. Evie^ chose
two Tosti compositions, “Love’s Way and
“ Once More,” and she seems to have done well.
Postcards drop along from Mrs. Bob Philp, who
with sister Ellie and brother Bill or John or
Charlie, is putting in time amid “Akenehi’s” green-
robed princes and brown Siamese or Javanese
boys. Latest news is that they have struck
Chinatown, and, if pictures go for anything, it
isn’t as yellow as it’s painted.
To-day saw the official 'unfurling of the
white wings upon the river, when the Brisbane
Dingey Club held its first outing, with crowded
flagships and no end of enthusiasm.
John Frances Buckland, one-time Parliamen-
tary rep. of Bulimba, where “Bishop” Barnes
now holds sway, passed on this week. He has
resided hereabouts since 1862, and was twice
elected M.L.A. The financial troubles of the
early ’9o’s affected him seriously, and he retired
from Parliament. He was followed in the House
by James Dickson, afterwards knighted. A band
of old friends, headed by Mr. Kelso, are receiving
subs, to ensure a more comfortable living for the
widow.
The she-leaguers held a floating Cabinet on
Monday, when about two miles of report and 15
ditto of speeches were rolled off at the multitude.
There was quite a crop of politicians—Barnes,
Swayne and Petrie; and the Home Secretary
only escaped by the hair of his teeth.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“ Opened by his Excellency,” being a few
remarks by F. Born :
His Excellency the State Governor of Barataria was
fond of travelling', and saw a great deal of his subject
Baratarians. Also, he gathered quite a miscellaneous
stock of observations —good, bad and indifferent.
While on a visit to a country town, he had occa-
sion to walk up one morning to the railway-station-
Here his attention was attracted by an odd-
looking individual, locally known as “ Billy the
Loony,” who walked up and down the platform,
tapped the wheels of the train now and again, cast
a critical eye over the baggage, and finally crowned his
performances when the station-master gave the signal
for departure by imitating that worthy, and waving his
hand to the engine-driver.
“ Got her off safe again,” he murmured to himself, with
immense satisfaction, as the train puffed away in the
distance.
“Couldn’t manage to start her without you, Billy,”
said a loafer standing near.
“Of course not. You see it’s the practice I’ve had,”
said the loony with a smirk.
His Excellency smiled a cynical smile. “ Let me see.
Doesn’t Parliament meet to-morrow, and am I not sup-
posed to start the machine ? Does anybody dare to think
or insinuate that the thing could possibly start without
me? What did Billy say? Look at the practice I’ve
had i "
The earth-eating disease, which has become
such a widespread horror at Cairns and other
parts of North Queensland, is probably the legacy
of the imported nigger to whom the North used to
be so much addicted. It is caused by worms of
great tonnage, and it makes the patient a
stunted, bloodless, feeble, staring wreck
the “hookworm stare” is a conspicuous symp-
tom. A boy of 16 who has had ankylos-
tomiasis from childhood usually looks as if he
were aged about 10. In the southern section —
the old slave section—of the U.S., millions of
people are afflicted with the complaint—in fact, the
backwardness, weariness and futility, the slack-
ness, incompetence and leaning-up habits
of the mean whites: “down south” are largely
ascribed to it. The nigger, of course, has it, too
—in fact, he brought it to the country; but he
apparently had it for thousands of years before
he shifted to the U.S., and long practice has
made him proof against its effects. It is a
strange, dingy complaint, aggravated by a dreary
ache in the waistband, which ache is somewhat
relieved by the eating of earth and miscellaneous
rubbish. In one street of Cairns—the name of
the street is given as Sandy Gallows —there is said
to be one or more patients in nearly every house.
1 Ankylostomiasis isn’t hard to cure nowadays, but
until recently it was set down on the world’s list
of hopeless diseases. The trouble is that very
few doctors are acquainted with it, and in those
parts of Australia where it is most plentiful doc-
tors are scarce. Also, a disease which is chiefly a
tired feeling is often set down as something that
doesn’t require a doctor.


NORTH QUEENSLAND
! THE
Cf AGSfc
7
%
m.
jC
/
SS
W&Sj
'y/j
WJ
WM
W*
in
:y r"
W
i
S?S
'tvS*
1
«i'- v
■JO*’*
i
Ml
II
f n
ft
t • s
i*{
if H
i l
m
s
m
,
SS 5:
am
ii
M
I
t $
uj<
a
©
-=St
t (
\\\
se i’i
I
i I
I \
■
; ' i
i I
m
i i
w
a
t
! Ii
I $
i '■:■
1
IS
£ : "
t I
i*4
S 1
111
£ «
BN
H
*
la
11
l f|
u
I: SSSS!
mm
m
% si
i
e
8S
M :
Ii
m
ravr******
Wm
i 5
s
-Uli.
—i.
BSa
, KU
HASC»v Stott •
HOW often overworked mankind longs for
Paradise ! It is only the journey that bothers.
An Earthly Eden is better, and Queensland is next
door. Comfortable combined rail and steamer
arrangements reach the furthermost point of
the Eden of the North in five days. Apply
to Railway Stations for particulars and fares.


Worse and Worse in Spite of Many
Doctors and Three Years of Hos-
pital T reatment Inflammation
Made Her Almost Crazy with Pain.
CURED BY TWO SETS
OF CUTICURA REMEDIES
“ I began to have an itching over mv
\7hole body about seven years ago and
this settled in my limb, from the knee to
the toes, I went to see a great many
physicians, a matter which cost me a
fortune, and after I noticed that I did
not get any relief that way, I went for
three years to tlio hospital. But they
were unable to help me there. I used
all the medicines that I could see but
became worso and worse. I had an in-
flammation which made me almost crazj
with pain. When I showed my foot to
my friends they would get really fright-
ened. I did not know what to do. I
was so sick and had become so nervous
that I positively lost all hopo.
“I had seen the advertisement of the
Cuticura Remedies a great many times
but could not make up my mind to buy
them, for I had already used so many
medicines. Finally I did dccido to use
the Cuticura Remedies and I tell you
that I was never so pleased as when I
noticed that, after having used two sets
cf Cuticura Soap, Cuticura Ointment
and Cuticura Pills, the entire inflamma-
tion had gone. I was completely cured.
I should bo only too glad if people
with a similar disease would come to
me and find out tho truth. I would only
recommend them to use Cuticura. Mrs.
Bertha Sachs, IG2I Second Ave., New
York, N. Y., Aug. 20, 1900.”
‘‘Mrs. Bertha Sachs is my sister-in-
law and I know well how she suffered
and was cured by the Cuticura Remedies
after many other treatments failed.
Morris Sachs, 321 E. 89th St., New York,
N. Y., Secretary of Deutsch-Ostrowoer
Unt.-Vcrein, Kempner Hebrew Benevo-
lent Society, etc.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
' Cuticura Is the most economical treatment known
tor aflections of the skin and scalp. A tablet of
Cuticura Soap and a box of Cuticura Ointment is
often sufficient to cure. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10. Rue
de la Chaussee d’Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney; India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta; So. Africa,
Lennon. Ltd., Cape Town, etc.: U. S. A., Pottei
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
j&8“32-page Cuticura Booklet, post-free, tells all
about the Best Care of Skin, Scalp and Hair
FIT
PEOPLE
Let us cure you of
Obesity and re-
move vour excess
h
mm.
Gil
fat. We have cured many thausands of
obesity sufferers. We have the only harm-
less and non-poisonous remedy ever known.
“FATCUKE”
acts mildly, gradually and effectively. No
matter whether the fat has attacked your
hips, stomach or bust, “Fatcure” will re-
move it. In many cases five pounds a week
has been removed, with perfect health fol-
lowing the reduction. . . . Our remedy is
certain, and no successful imitation has ever
been created. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE
SAMPLE and Descriptive Booklet, or, if
convenient, call. Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
WRITE or CALL without any delay.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
PEARLS.
JL The Oldest Established Pearl Buyers
in Australia.
Established 1880.
I*- HIGHEST PRICES GIVEN.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
PROMPT CASH PAYMENTS.
P. KLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyard Street, SYDNEY.
Free for the Asking.
h
The completes! illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it ? - 1
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
r&
i
GOOD DIGESTION
QUICKLY 1 RETURNS
—and good health follows naturally
when you restore your digestive
organs to healthful working order.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, the world-
famed tonic —made of roots, barks
andleaves —tones up andstrengthens
the stomach and other organs of
digestion. Thus it gives relish for
food and the power to digest it.
Further, it makes food nourish you,
WHEN YOU TAKE
THE DIGESTIVE TONIC
and clears away the poisonous pro-
ducts of indigestion —the fruitful
cause of pains after eating, head-
aches, brain-fag biliousness, consti-
pation. “As a reliable, safe and
effective family remedy for indi-
gestion, there is nothing in all
Australia to equal Mother Seigel s
Syrup.”— W. Cregan, Morse Street,
The Valley, Brisbane, Queensland.
January 28, 1910.
CbKii’C
IFOR ACCURACY
;& DURABILITY
K
sMurr
<3HX
JSIO
BARNET GLASS’
FLITE RED DOT
WHITE FGITB
B.G.SCIENTIFIC
b.g. remade
GOLF BALLS
BARNET GGASS
rdbbe<r c? X/T*?
231 Clarence Street, Sydney;
13 Perkins Street, Newcastle.
AND ALL STATES.
Free to Smokers!
Mr. It. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan,
N S.W., writes: — , A T
“ Tt eives me great pleasure to inform you that 1
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by vour wonderful lobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider ,
the cure permanent. , , , ~ l
“Mv general health is now pferfect; all my
former complaints, such as Hear j
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will g.ve me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.
free sample.
QonH 9a stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR
& CO«,
DEPT. O, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. [2
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take ;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood; tissues, and interna] organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
the best
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. Ihey
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
family
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery scn=>e of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the’food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
medicine.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Heafne &
Co.. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
Transformations, Puffs,
Pin Curls, Switches,
Coils, Plaits, Fringes
KEPT IN STOCK AND MADE TO ORDER.
Only the Best European Hair used In the
manufacture of our Goods.
WE DO NOT USE ASIATIC HAIR.-WI
We receive by every mail from London and
Paris the Latest Hair Frames atid Novelties.
MADAME LEIGH,
Ladies’ Hairdresser, Hair & Skin Specialist,
23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
CUSTARP
"war.
Custard •‘ftSwtt
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
IrfiUUMiMHa
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
ĥ
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 P er t> ox
Proprietors, PROUT 4 Co M 229, Strand,
London, England
rcT»l»Jki
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pit
Street, Sydney,: Sole Agents for Australia.
The Inky Way.
The proprietors of Cooper’s sheep-dip have forwarded
an intimation that they are offering three prizes (one of
£5O, one of £25, and one of £3O) “for the three best
papers on the blowfly trouble.” Tiie Bulletin can t
think for the moment which are the best papers on the
blowfly trouble. But, if anybody is offering prizes for
the three best papers on the stinking-fish trouble, it will
guarantee to supply the list by return mail.
■¥■ * * *
Melbourne is to have a quarterly magazine, the Aus-
tralian Onlookkr. It is to be under the auspices of Mel-
bourne’s struggling literary societies, and aims at reveal-
ing new talent of the lighter academic order and widening
tiie circle of “ culchaw.” It will have a first subscription
list of 750 at 2s. 6d„ and an issue of 1000 copies in all.
The scheme is modest enough. The Australian On-
looker will be a 20-page sheet, one inside page only
beinj** reserved for advertisements of a harmonious char-
acter. All services are to lie honorary, and an office—at
1!) Queen-street, Melbourne —is provided gratis by Mr.
Frank Russell, the business manager. All going well, the
infant, will come to light before Christmas.
* * * *
“ O. N. Lines ” : Salaries for press reporting in Sydney
are going down, and instead of every senior staffman
receiving at least £6 as formerly, the wages have been
carved into until very few men, indeed, are on that mark.
This is due entirely to the lack of competition. To all
intents and purposes the Herald and Telegraph (the
two big morning papers) are a replica of one another.
Occasionally one or other gets a scoop,,but as a general
thing the news in one paper is the news in another. The
papers are understaffed, and if Blank on the Telegraph
finds himself on the duty book for twice as
many engagements as he can cover, he hunts up Hash on
the Herald who is up for at least one or two of
the same jobs, and who, you can bet your life, is
looking hard for Blank. Supposing it is civil court
work, and Blank has four or five or six courts.
Naturally he cannot do them all. Dash is in a similar
predicament; so probably is Blast ou the News and Hang
on the Sun. Therefore an arrangement is come to,
whereby all the jobs are split up and the “copy ” pooled.
It is a dangerous proceeding, and each man in the pool
carries his job in his hand —for a libel geneialli
means Out, and it doesn’t look vyell for four papers
to have the same libel. A leading paper will send
to an important set of jobs a youngster who could
no more do them than he could swing the Deni
round by the tail. But his boss knows very well that lie’ll
get his copy from the pool; and so he does. In the
circuit there is bound to be one or two competent men,
and they take on the difficult work while the incom-
petents'take work that is of less consequence, and
that can be thrown overboard if time doesn’t per-
mit of verification. But the pool system, like all
other dodges, has a limit, and the limit is just
about due. Youngsters are being shoved into the places
of senior men as vacancies occur, and are being paid £2,
£2 10s. or less, and gradually the remaining strong men
who have to carry them are bending to breaking point
under the weight. Presently there will not be enough
stron”' men to go round, and then the pool system will
suddenly crack right down the middle, and the subs on
the big dailies will howl in vain for the day’s “copy.”
The N.S.W. Institute of Journalists has been blamed for
not rising on its hoofs and fighting the cheap-ieporter
trouble, but personally I don’t think the Institute can do
anvgood. The only sure and decisive way to end it is
for the competent men to come to an agreement not to
swap copy with a living writer on another paper. That
will simultaneously kill stone-dead the cheap, incom-
petent reporter and the under-staffing in the various
offices.
« * * *
“ Yarriambiak ”: Some time ago, the Institute of
Journalists in Adelaide set to work to try to improve
the conditions of its members—perhaps the most over-
worked and underpaid lot of pressmen in the Common-
wealth. A committee to draw up a wages log was
appointed, and the old foolish idea that it was infra dig.
for a journalist to have anything to do with trades
unionism or collective action seemed firmly and finally
dead. Unfortunately, it was merely snoozing. In due
time the committee presented a suggested log, and a
special meetinginstructed thesecretary tofonvarditto the
proprietors of the three daily papers. Then the trouble
broke loose. The secretary didn’t forward the suggested
lo”, on theground that,subsequent to theaetion taken by
the’lnstitute, the proprietors of one paper had voluntarily
increased the salaries of their employees. This being so,
are'ued the secretary, there was need to reconsider the
matter. Incidentally, he added that he had received the
resignati >n of numerous members who objected to the
proposed action ; and, to clinch the argument, he pointed
out that the meeting which ordered the log to be
issued was only a little one. Later, a special meet-
ing was called, and theinaction of the secretary endorsed.
The probable result will be the formation of a journalists’
union, which will seek affiliation with the Typographical
Society, and already a preliminary meeting has been
held. 'The old Institute is in a parlous state. There
have been two sections ; but from now onward there will
be only one, the members of which will be able to meet
*in solemn conclave for the purpose of admiring the
manner in which they preserved the “dignity of the pro-
fession.”
* * * *
E. S. Emerson, well known to Bulletin readers as a
writer of verse and' stories, goes west to edit the
Westralian Worker, being the successful applicant
among a scoye or more aspirants. Emerson has a firm grip
of things Australian, and should do good work in clearing
the stumps in'tiie Bigjobn Forrest State. He recently
completed an up-to-date opera, which, from latest ad vices,
promiseswell for acceptance in London ; and he has hopes
of later on singing praises of the Australian bush in
England for a spell.
B * -*- * * *
The arrival of'the Adelaide Labor daily has shaken up
the other papers. Twelve months ago an important
union meeting got three or four lines of nonpareil, and it
didn’t matter where the stuff was dropped; but now
each daily has its special industrial expert, who prac-
ticallv lives at the Trades Hall, and no item is so small
or swift that it can dodge the printer. Nothing exceeds
like excess.
THE VERSE-MOULDER'S REQUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
110 ! for ihe bold, brine-crusted tar !
Give him a stave of cheer. —Grant Ilervey.
Here’s to the iron-welder stark !
A verse to hearten him on.—Grant Ilervey.
Grant, I would take it kindly if, next time
You feel inspired to swell the mighty list
Of toilers whom you’ve dowered with a rhyme,
You would, so far as I’m concerned, desist.
Far be it from the writer to be rude
Or callously indifferent to Art ;
Yet, Grant, you strike me as a trifle crude,
For all your vast, warm, throbbing human heart.
I’ve toiled behind your bounding Pegasus,
Past Clapham, Coogee and the Celebes ;
I’ve chased him through the sparkling Ilissus
(Near Athens, Grant), and scaled the Pyrenees
(I mean, of course, in spirit) in his tracks.
Mosman I’ve visited, and Samarcand.
(This class of verse all difficulty lacks
Provided one’s an atlas close at hand.)
And ever, as I tore from place to place,
Amid a ceaseless orash of proper names
And wild, loose talk of Home and early Thrace
And Babylon and Hell and Smithfield's flames,
I asked : “ Why all this verbiage ? Why say
In twenty weird, recondite words what we,
Who are not Grants, can set forth any day,
Without the slightest strain, in two or three?”
Answered a voice at last: “ Old man, it’s hard
To realise you have so little sense ;
He’s paid by space —so many coins a yard,
And rhymes expansively in consequence.”
And then I knew. . . . Yet still I make my plea :
Do not accord me, Grant, a stave of cheer.
Immunity from that is worth, to me,
More than the price of breweries of beer.
N.S.W.
SINGEMOINK THE VERSE-MOULDER.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
-
.
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
TWO BEAUTIES
TttE OHLY'
TYRE /
BUILT ol\
/CIEATIFIC'
PRIM] RLE*
/V
V
V.
DO
HJ
- ; -. '•!
O
C>
o
$
? 6X 112 01
S'p
THE
/ILVERTOWH
RUBBER C>
279 GEO BCE f T
/YD HEY
AIX
WOOL
Hosiery O
Underwear.
'sgs2£ goods
will not wear for
ever. But they wi'l wear
longer than other all-wool goods, because
they never shrink. You do not have to discard
them before they are half-worn because they have
shrunk so much that you cannot get them on. 1 hat is why
are so much more economical. And they cost no
more than the ordinary.
“Jason" Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, find Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason" Booklet and name of nearest Agent, to
Aal
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
<T
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials:—-
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
31“ Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful l inks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chloago, U.S.A.
h
“RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid .healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NS.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
flflWWifflWMiifinftiTrn-rtnii
You
cannot
strop it
Wrongly
Insert the
strop in the Auto Strop
Safety Razor —move the
Razor to and fro —the
blade reverses automatically
at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself —in an
instant you have a keen edge*
That is why the
.4uio / 8ti t op
fe^zoß
always gives a smooth and luxurious shave. And the Auto Strop user avoids
continual outlay for new blades—required by any jirdinary safety ra: tot. J
There is nothing to take apart to strop or clean. Far quicker handier
and cheaper than a no-stropping razor.
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-
plated, self-stropping razor ; one dozen specially
tested lancet - steel blades ; one horsehide
strop ; the whole contained in handsome
v leather case, size 2 in. by 3| in. The
25/-
and no -
further
expense.
price complete is
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO.,LTD
The Rialto, Collins St., Melbourne: and ’
222, Clarence St., Sydney.
ĥ
ħ
A superb library volume, handsomely, panted
and bound ; containing of .Timie hundred
of “ Hop’s’* best drawings. Full BlitjUttTi# si>:@
Fried, 21s.


Royal Order for
John Strange Winter
Preparations
Mrs. Stannard (John Strange Winter) has
received through Lady Mary Fitzwilliam (Lady in
waiting to Queen Alexandra) an order for John
Strange Winter toilet preparations to be sent to
Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Saxe-Coburg
Gotha and her daughter, the Princess Beatrice.
Their Royal Highnesses, writes Lady Mary Fitz-
william, “are enchanted with them.”
John Strange Winter is now offering her famous
preparations to the Australian public at London
prices.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER’S HAIR FOOD.—The outcome of successful
experiments made by the author of “ Booties Baby ” when in dire personal
need of a hair renewer — t
Price 2/6; post free 3/~
JOHN STRANGE WINTER’S LAKSHMI CREAM.—A delightful compouud
of ingredients for softening, cleansing and stimulating the skin.
Kitty Mason says—“ Lakshmi is glorious.”
Countess Cowley says—“ I cannot tell you what a comfort it was.”
' Nellie Stewart writes—” Is really marvellous for keeping the complexion
clear and free from lines and wrinkles. Henceforth I shall use no other.”
Price 3/-; post free 3/6
“Comely Woman” booklet by John Strange Winter free on request.
Sold by all first-class Chemists, Drapers and Stores.
John Strange Winter
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PARIS and LONDON.
120 Post Holes in a Day!
Time was when the digging of' Post Holes was a wearisome
and tedious task, but since the advent of the I WAN POST
HOLE AUGER, fencing has been revolutionised. Think
what it means to have the hole cut just the size of the post, and
in a fraction of the time taken with a spade. The Iwan Post
Hole Auger is being used with great success by farmers —it has
no adjustable parts, therefore nothing can get out of order.
Size—3in. 4in. sin. 6in.> 7in. 81n. 9in. iOin. 12in. 14in.
7/- 7/- 7/- 7/- 7/6 8/6 9/6 10/- 27/- 31/-
Our %56-page Catalogue will be mailed Post Free for your. asking.
Thomas McPherson & Son
Established Half a Century,
582-588 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
h
Missing: Friends.
■\X7 ANTED to know whereabouts of GEORGE ROBIN-
SON, who left Forbes for Queensland about eight
years ago. Address John Robinson, Solicitor,- Forbes.
ANDREW NEILSON BAIR!). —Message from Brother.
Write to Gordon and Gotch, Sydney.
ill JOHN CAREY, formerly of County
Mayo, Ireland, or bis descendants,
communicate with
SNOWDEN, NEAVE & DEMAINE,
Solicitors, Melbourne.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
The Musical Success of our Generation,
OUR MISS OI BB S.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 1,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents Two Famous Operas :
Mascagni’s Great Work,
CAYALLERIA RUSTIC AN A
(AMY CASTLES as Santuzza),
and Leoncavalla’s Exquisite Opera,
I PAGLIACCI (AMY CASTLES as Nedda).
GRAND OPERA CHORUS. Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
AN UNMISTAKABLE TRIUMPH!
ALLAN HAMILTON and MAX MAXWELL’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Latest London Domestic Drama,
THE LITTLE BREADWINNER
(By arrangement with Rupert Clarke and Clyde Meynell).
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. FRANK MUSGROVE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 1,
RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL introduce
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY and his ENGLISH
FARCICAL COMEDY" COMPANY,
including Mr. David Janies and Miss Mab Paul, in
THU NIGHT of the PARTY.
Weedon Grossniith’s Shriekingly Funny Three-Act Farce.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
Prices —55., 3s. and Is. Early Door Gallery, Is. extra.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICT U PpES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. Wbst.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan ar. Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
LYCEUM
EVENING AT B
he:
EVERT
T
Mati me ts -Wednesdays Saturdays and Holidays at 230
C PENCER'SIiTf ATRESCOPE <?
J PICTURES
-&• SUPER. lOR TO PLL OTHERS.
Popular Prices Plan at Palings.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manafrer —Mu. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
MORRIS ORONIN AND COMPANY, Famous Jugglers.
GRACEUL MISS GRACIE GRAHAME, Comedienne.
BARNES (George) and WEST (Irene), Specialty Dancers.
THE QUE4LYS, in Farcical Comedy, ‘Fun in a Kitchen.’
THE AUSTRALIAN GOLD DIGGERS, by a Quartette
of Leading Vocalists (Messrs. A. Sharpies, H. Powell,
E. Harrison and J. McKellar).
TOM DAWSON, Popular and Favorite Comedian.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan ac Paling’s.
Amusements.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LARRY LEWIS, Quaint Comedian.
THREE MIDGETS, Australian Specialty Artists.
POWELL & VESEY, Duologue Entertainers.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Piquant Musical Artists.
MR. & MRS. MEYMOTT, Society Sketch Artists.
GODFREY JAMES, Singing Collier.
FANNY POWERS, Mimetic Artiste.
FRED BLUETT and HIS BOY SCOUTS.
Plan at Allan's. PRIOES-3S, 2s, Is.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anderson.
A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
William Anderson's Famous Dramatic Co.
in a New and Picturesque Australian Drama
of Sporting Life,
THE WINNING TICKET.
Magnificent New Scenery and Effects.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —3s, 2s and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents his NEW LONDON
COMPANY in the Greatest of Drury Lane Dramas, in
THE WHIP.
A SERIES OF SENSATIONAL SCENES,
SUPERLATIVE SPECTACULAR EFFECTS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT. OCTOBER 1,
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC. OPERA CO. in,
TOM JONES.
THE SCENERY AND COSTUMES THE FINEST EVER
SEEN ON AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
JULIUS KNIGHT, KATHERINE GREY
and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
—IN—
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
POSITIVE LAST TWO WEEKS IN AUSTRALIA.
’ Prices as Usual. Plan at All in s.
11l E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen s.
MELBOURNE GLAC.A R . U M.
ICE-SKATING
POSITIVELY CLOSES
SATURDAY EVENING,
Ist OCTOBER.
Wl RTHSOLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT S
MatiMEts -Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
SPENCER'SIf[ATREJCOPE <?.
PICTURES
hre superior ro /ill others
Popular Prices —Plan as Isual^»>
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
J.iN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Glass Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
Business Announcements.
THE BEST FUN EVER
The NU-FACE MASKS
QUITE
NOYEL
MASK ON
. MASK OFF.
Slip on and off in
an Instant
AMAZING . .
. . CHANGES
PUZZLE YOUR FRIENDS
Absolutely Unrecognisable
immense for parties
AND PICNICS
'THE Nu-Face JHasks are
quite different from
anything you hare ever
seen. They fit closely over
the face, and can be put on
or off in an instant. The
shape of your face is un-
changed, but the expression
is altered beyond recog-
nition. This is whai
pussies every-
body. You can har-
lots of fun. There ar.
Twelve Dif feren t
Faces: The Sniiler
r Grandma, The Geishi
Girl, The Motor Man, Pioin
Pete, Jolly Masher, Dolefu
Dan, Country Cousin, Dad \
Wayback, Uncle
Only
Bd.
posted
TKY
ONE
darin and Hoogenheimer. Prices One Mask for Eight Pence
Three for Is. 9d.. Six for 3*., Twelve for 5* 6d.; we pa\
carriage. Obtainable only from THE UNI OP
COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
'V*.
*
* *>
&
■OttJ
%
#
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
Private Enterprise, in the form of “ a deputation
representing the interests of the Korumburra,
Jninbunna and Outtrim coalfields,” came right
out into the open, last week, and asked Premier
Murray to charge the public more for the coal
won at the Powlett State coal-mine, or to go slow
and give the public less coal. It was represented
variously that the Private Enterprise coal busi-
ness was being prejudiced horribly by the State
concern ; that the State had a right, by charging
higher prices, to make bigger profits than at
present; that it was the Government’s duty to
conserve its coal and refrain from tearing it
out with indecent haste; that, as a matter of
common justice to the vested coal interests, the
furthest the Government should go in the coal
business was to supply the needs of the State rail-
ways ; that the Powlett mine wasn’t going to last
for ever ; that when it started down hill, ruin and
desolation would smite Victoria—and a lot more
to the same effect. Verbiage apart, it was obvi-
ously the fixing of the price of Powlett coal at
14s. a ton that agitated the coal-owners. The vast
disproportion between that figure and the price
charged by Private Enterprise was whathurried the
deputation to the feet of Murray. And what stu-
pendous impudence its point of view betrays !
There would be considerable uproar if a deputation
of bullockies suggested to Murray that the train
freights should be levelled up to their charges,
and the train-speeds levelled down to the gradual
gait of their conveyances. Yet such a suggestion
would be no more unreasonable than that the
State of Victoria should enter into a sort of com-
bine or vend with a number of private mine-
owners to keep the price of coal high and the
output low. Murray gave scant encouragement
to the deputation. No Premier who didn’t want
to be identified with the views of the Back Ages
could have done anything else.
♦
Laura Merry Wurm was a party in a law-
suit in Adelaide, last week. And Merry was a
widow as well as a Wurm.
Many people in Britain desire a new title
to describe their King and Emperor, George V.
It is objected that the present designation is too
long, uncertain and cumbersome; so something
with the virtues of brevity and compnehensive-
ness is loudly called for. Suggestions aro already
tumbling in, and George has been variously ad-
vised to style hiniself “ His Majesty the
Monarch,” “Arch-Emperor,” “Emperor of the
British,” etc., etc. This last title is noisily sup-
ported by various patriots; but it doesn’t go far
enough. It is too insular and exclusive for s\
ruler of an Empire of so many tints. Why not
“King of the British and Emperor of the
Shades”?
J. R. Y. Goldstein, a Melbourne person-
age, has just resigned.the flesh. The deceased,
who had passed his seventieth year, was known
as an amateur soldier and a professor of charity.
He joined Victoria’s army in the dying ’6o’s
and retired when the ’9o’s were getting
wrinkled. As a charity expert, he founded in
Victoria the Leongatha Labor Colony and the
Convalescent Aid Society for Men. Also, he
dipped a finger in the control of the Women’s
Hospital and the Hospital of the League of
Mercy, Melbourne. But those labors for society
seem paltry beside his deeds in a parental
capacity; for he was the father of the. Goldstein
family, which includes Miss Vida, the political
climber, and Mrs. H. H. Champion, the wife of
the journalist and social evolutionary.
“Phil Harum”: Be “Gil” and the
bugles blown by the coachdrivers of the Never-
Never (B. 8/9/TO). May I rise, to remark that
there was precious little romance about the
brass with which the coachmen of the bad old
days woke • the echoes? They simply tooted
their “horns” because a paternal Postal Depart-
ment put it in the bond. Why, only some
departed postal autocrat ■ could tell, and he’s got
something else to think about. But bugles were
not always forthcoming. On one occasion com-
plaint was made that the driver of the Thargo-
mimjah-Oontoo mail did not carry the necessary
brass implement. _lh.e._ Department insisted.
The contractor-owra-driver wired the Brisbane
head office : “ Bugle not procurable ; will any
other musical instrument do?” Apparently
under the impression that a brass instrument was
meant, apd know’ing that bugles didn’t grow on
every wayside mulga, the Department replied
“Yes.” When the coach reached Oontoo next trip
the crowd around Costello’s came forward to help
themselves as usual; but the driver waved them
back with a flourish : “ Wait a minit, boys, till I
give ye a bit of the bugle.” Then producing a
jew’s-harp, he solemnly thrummed out “ Pop
Goes the Weasel ” before handing the bags over.
“ A.H.” : Concerning the value of King
Sound in the Far Nor’-West, as a naval base,
“G.R.F.” (B. 15/9/TO) admits the difficulty ships
might have to get into it, but declares that should
be one of its recommendations. Why ? Apart
from other troubles there is a tidal rise of from 30ft.
to 40ft. up that part of the coast. To make the
harbor at all vessels must take the tide fairly full
—even vessels of medium and light draught.
Taking it that a naval base means not only
graving docks but provision and coal stores, also
a centre from which strategic moves could be
made, or to which a safe retreat could be easily
effected, how would such a locality answer, say,
in case of hasty retreat, with hot pursuit, when
the tide didn’t happen to be full? Unless the
fugitives reached the Sound at the right moment
they would sLiply have to lie outside, say, for 15
or 20 hours, waiting their opportunity, or court
disaster by trying to cross reefs, shoals and sand
bars at-low water. It is all right to have a base
which is difficult for the other fellow to get into ;
but surely you want to be able to get into it your-
self without breaking your neck.
One of those cases in which your true
lawyer simply revels has come to a temporary end,
so to speak, in the Victorian Supreme. Court. In
1906 the Geelong Harbor Trust bought two
second-hand dredges—the Walrus and the Octopus
—from the Natal Government. The Octopus
speedily started on the road to D. Jones’s locker,
and went to pieces on the S’African coast. The
Walrus left Durban on Aug. 13, and was never
afterwards heard of. The glorified scoop was in-
sured for £12,000 with the Maritime Insurance Co.,
but the co. declined to pay up on the grounds
that a different route was taken from the one
specified, that the scoop was overloaded with
coal, and that it was generally unseawortliy.
The Trust went to law, and for 39 days various
expensive barristers argued, and expert witnesses
droned, and exhibits of models of dredges and
parts of dredges, hoppers, false and true bottoms,
and other abstruse things, were handed round.
Then the jury pondered for two days and con-
sidered the 13 questions put to it, and the 14 sub-
questions, and finally decided that the insurance
co. ought to part up the £12,000. The co. is
understood to be looking towards a higher court;
but it isn’t rushing the matter. It has noted that
the Costs have already reached £20,000, and is
probably trying to figure out what height they are
capable of reaching.


“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
4
*
_> A FOOD OF GREAT
NUTRITIVE VALUE
which can be made suitable for any
degree of digestive power by the simple
process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
For INFANTS , INVALIDS and the AGED.
It is used mixed with fresh new milk, and forms a
delicate and nutritive cream, which is enjoyed and
assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely free from rough
and indigestible particles which produce irritation in delicate stomachs.
The Lancet describes it as “ Mr. Benger's admirable preparation.'
The British Medical Journal says: “ Benger's Food has, by its excellence , established a reputation of its own,
BENGERS FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
8 33
3*3
Sf
-V
PRIZES Value £9950
IN THE
8-HOUR
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO.
3rd Prize, value £lOO.
2nd Prize, value £250.
And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Sawd.v, Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAY WATER PISTOL.
Durable, Reliable and Perfectly Safe.
ĥ
Will stop the most vicious
dog or man without
pernyment injury. In-
valuable for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more effect on
beggars and tramps than
a watch-dog. Beloading
unlimited. It creates great amusement for young
and old. Length 5 inches, nickel-plated and nicely
ornamented. Price 1/6 post free anywhere.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, 1/2.
THE “JOKER" TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and tneii closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening- the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price with full directions, 7d. post free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins,
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
AGENTS:
Melbourne—T. R. Jones & Co.,
366 Bourke Street.
Brisbane—Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd., 108-110
Eagle Street.
Adelaide—Lord & Heseltine,
90 Pirie Street.
Launceston—John McKenzie
& Co.
Hobart—John Ferguson & Co.
m
0.0
gjluiiufur l^'
%
2
%
• yiV .
The Merit of a
Whisky is not
dependent on its
name, but on its
li
Ui
OLD
ORKNEV
Is a Real Liqueur ScotcH
from a century-old distillery,
reserving its wHole output
for tbis one brand.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS DISTILLERY, Orkney, Scotland.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datb Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3,
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d,
ħ
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &(}., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play ' Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. . Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d postedi Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CyCLOPEPIA
EMBRACIN'}
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Hookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. HowMcDobgall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio,. Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my price* with others and
save your cash. Established 25 I cars.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Seat Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY,
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. . Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bosii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
“E.8.D.” on the Nyngan (N.S.W.) im-
provement leases (B. 25/8/’10): —
I agree that a pale-blue odor invests the very name of
improvement lease ; but there are times when it is wise
to let lands under that tenure. The Nyngan blocks were
lands of the sort. This land has been open for selection
ever since there has been such a thing as selection ; but
neither Fat nor the land-starved men butted in to get it.
Further, the land has been offered on improvement lease
no less than four times without commanding a bid. The
fifth time the price was reduced, and then the compe-
tition was not between the landless, but between parties
already holding big areas. One block, however—the
nearest to the railway and the most suitable (or, rather,
the least unsuitable) for a small settler—is still open.
But, simply because I am a small-settlement advocate,
I shouldn’t advise any land-hungry little man to take it.
He might just as well commit suicide at once and save
himself a lot of details.
From an Australian in the innards of
Russia:—
To-day (August 2) I read in a Russian paper that it is
probable Westralia will give a large piece of land to settle
1,000,000 Russian Jews. If Westralia does any such
foolish thing the whole country will pay through the
nose for it. I have travelled in Russia now for four
years and eight months, largely in the Jewish parts. I
have lived with these people, worked with them—and
beep cheated by them. I have seen no Jews on the land,
and if they were given land in Australia they would
quickly go off it and drift into the towns, to ruin the
Australian shopkeepers. South Russian villages are
almost all owned by Jews. As soon as they drive out
the Christian shopkeepers, they form small trusts and
raise prices, and so the work of fleecing the country goes
on. With that comes wholesale corruption and bribery,
two of the pests of the country ; and patriotic Russians
blame the Russian brand of Jew for most of it.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
h
Stevens’ “ FA VO RITE, "
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear sights r\ /
weight 441 b. Postage —1/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State. ’ 25/*
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear, 37/6.
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each
extra.
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Sieinen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38£in., weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage— Is. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
355.
ĥ
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.' si
Postage—2s. 3d. N.S.W. ; 4s. 2d. Inter-State.
mz
Send for our Illustrated Sports,
Fishing and Tobacco Lists, FREE.
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
o-reener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end, weight 12-gauge, about 71b., 16-gauge, about 6ilb.
Delivered, £ 3/151
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAY MARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain / 197 Oxford
St., Sydney ; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [2
zyfC&lMctJt
OTHER MODELS
Fi*om 7/6 to 40/*
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-liko Tone of theso Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
8 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30/“, Post Free.
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 15/-, Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street,
And also at BENDIGO d
Melbourne,
GEELONG.
S. SMITH & SON’S
ħ
(LTD.)
“STRAND”
WATCHES
ARE THE
BEST VALUE
OBTAINABLE
Special Terms to
Shippers.
18 ct. Gold English Lever, £l6 16s. Od.; Crystal, £l3 15s. Od.
Sterling Silver „ £6 6s. Od.; „ £5 ss. Od.
Write for Catalogue WATCHES, Clocks, Jewellery, Speed Indicators.
HOLDERS OF SIX ROYAL WARRANTS.
9 STRAND, LONDON.
9
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
[2
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors.
SIR GEORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE, J P.
G. STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers— THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
SkJ>
r «o« •**'
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
“Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
o'LITq
Terms—One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F.p.B. any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write Jor Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: “Aviation, BRISTOL.” Codes-A i, A.8.C., and MOREING.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
lait larola
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
in HOT
orCOLD
climafes.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
Lait
a/ro
Reg?.
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND,
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
h
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
ĥ
(jIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miiller’s Featlier Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
©
D
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
'A safe and simple remedy for }
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
He Enas denial Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Send in your Application
NOW.
Absolutely FREE
MPION
C
(Drawn from Photo)
“T he
Champion
Senior
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-.
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR— YOU!
Owing to the enormously increased demand ■for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono-
graphs, we have decided to GIVE AWAY a further
ONE THODS3NO PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at/6/io/ and Guaranteed
for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
stocks of Records. Now, we propose to give
you the Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do you see our reason Now ?
We will send one of our ” Champion Senior” Phonographs Free of any charge
whatever to any respectable and approved person applying if you agree to give a practical de-
monstration among your friends and comply with the conditions we send in response to
your application, in respect to the distributing of our Circulars and Price Lists, and
the use of our Records. &c. Full particulars of our method of Free Distribution sent
to each applicant. Write at once to
Anglo-Australian Importing Co.,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
No. 2
CUT THIS OUT
and Mail to the
AN GLO-AUSTRALIAN
IMPORTING CO, SYDNEY
Thereby make application for
full particulars of vour FEEE
PHONOGRAPH DISTRIBUTION as
advertised by your Company,
Name..
Street
Town State


. .■ ■' '•■ •'
m
.
m
m
:*<*■
*m
SfiSS
jSaSSSSSSf
Rugby Union Football Competition. Champions and Unbeaten, 1910.
Newtown Rugby Union Football Team.
ROYAL BLUE PENNANT FLIES HIGH.
The Rugby Union season ended Saturday, 17th inst., Newtown having gone through
unbeaten. They are accordingly unconquered premiers, an honor which has not fallen
to any other club since the district system was introduced 10 years ago. -
It will therefore be interesting to the general public, as it was gratifying to the Pro-
prietors of Rexona, to read the following testimonial given unanimously by every member
of the team. The letter speaks for itself, and shows in what high esteem this premier
team holds the new Rapid Healer Rexona. They write as follows :
The Manager, Rexona, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—The whole of our Football Team are so pleased with the
benefit we have derived from the use of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, that we
have unanimously decided to give you a testimonial regarding same. We
have used it for numerous purposes in our training and after our matches,
both as an embrocation and as a healer for the various cuts and sores
incidental to football.
This has been a most successful year with us, and we certainly feel to a
considerable extent that we owe our success to the great benefit which we
have derived from the use of Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
A number of the boys have also used it for Chilblains, Sore Feet and
Chapped Hands, and in every instance have found it to be an excellent
remedy.
With best wishes for Rexona.
We are, very truly yours,
(Signed) ERNEST E. BOOTH,
Captain Newtown R.U. Football Team.
Also signed by the other members of the team.
Football players everywhere will find Rexona of the greatest use in the training room. It is
invaluable as a rub-down for strained and tired' muscles, and will rapidly heal all the many cuts and
bruises acquired in the football field. If you have not already tried Rexona, send us your name and
address, and we will send by return post a sample pot gratis.
Rexona, the new Rapid Healer, is a reliable remedy for Bad Legs, Piles, Eczema, Erysipelas,
Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Prickly Heat, Ringworm,
Scrofulous Sores, Scabs on the Head, Boils,
Rashes, Blackheads, Pimples, Stings of Insects,
and all irritations and eruptions of the skin.
Rexona is sold everywhere in triangular pots
at 1/6, or in larger pots holding nearly four
times the quantity at 3/-, or will be sent post
free upon receipt of the price by the Laxo-Tonic
Pill Co., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Q^canoj
th^rapi^jeale^^j
AllcocK!s
Plasters
APPLY
Wherever there is Pain.
ħ
h
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock’s Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1732.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., BIRKENHEAD, ENG.
Buyers of
Horrockses’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO-BRITISH
EXHIBITION, 1908
G. &G. 603
have a guarantee if HORROCKSES*
name is on the Selvedges, that they
are getting the very best that the
Old Country Produces.
Decline all Substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
The Cable’s Requiem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE served the Master surely, lying low
beneath the sea—
Lying deep, a thousand fathoms ’neath the
thunder of the screws ;
He hath set me here to labor where the lost
Armadas be,
And he knows that well I serve him in the depths
of silent ooze !
For the Master’s ways are secret, and his purpose
strideth far—
Very far beyond the knowing of the cable deep
and dim ;
Though he harness moon and planet, though he
drive the bitted star,
He shall hear the pulsing heart-beat in my ocean-
requiem !
In the long ago the Master set me here to serve
him well-
Ah, the years of faithful labor ’neath the booming
of the tide ! .
I have taken forth his orders—ships of battle on
the swell,
They have swung as I have whispered—see the
great steel monsters ride.
Now the Master’s brain hath fashioned servants
new to do his needs,
And I hear his orders flashing far and wide above
the sea;
I have been both true and loyal—o ye choirs of
jarring creeds,
Have ye served him half as truly as I serve with
bended knee?
Ye have heard the armies marching, heard the
crash of shotted guns—
’Twas the echo of the message that I flashed from
shore to shore;
Forth from Sitka steams the sealer, but my trail
of service runs
Out of Brisbane to Vancouver, from Madras to
Singapore !
I am trailing out of Sydney—through Magellan’s
straits I go,
And I murmur soft from Darien ’neath the sum-
; mer Caribbees ;
Where the coal-ships bring their cargoes I am
leaving Callao;
Valparaiso hears me calling as I sing beneath the
seas !
It is good, in days of passing, simply this to always
know—
How the hand was to the labor, how the soul had
strength to dare ;
Neath the wire-leashed North Atlantic I am
singing as I go—
-1 hough New York may never hear me, still my
song shall proudly fare !
Roar of streets and crowded cities, angry voices
' of the slum—
Ihese are hushed, and none shall hear them
where I croon beneath the sea ;
But when Man-the-Master’s Master beats his
mighty judgment-drum,
I shall raise my Song of Service—are ye singing,
souls, with me ?
Who hath served the Master surely ?—lying here
beneath the sea,
Lying deep a thousand fathoms, I have heard the
beating screws ;
One hath set ye here to labor—with the Lost Things
I shall be,
But the Master knows my service in the darkened
depths of ooze!
Aye, the Master's ways are secret, and he drives the
bitted star
Very far beyond our knowing as we touch His
garment's hem ;
Yet I know that Work is worthy, and when all
things silent are
Mill my deep-sea psalm shall echo—God shall hear
my requiem 1
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
In Vain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNDER the evening glare of the
tyrannous tropic sun—dipping huge and
crimson towards the western sea-line—
stood out in ruddy glow the piled-up flat-topped
houses of the island town. In the background, a
low green stretch of mainland was already clothing
itself with ghastly evening vapors ; and, away
to the north, Cape Verde—Africa’s farthest
reach-out into the Atlantic—lay like a faint
streak of indigo dividing sea from sky.
The parting sim
Beyond the earth’s green cape and verdant isles
Hespereati sets.
Milton’s lines about that actual locality came to
Halsbury’s mind as, leaning upon the yaght’s
bridge-rail, he swept the scene with a binocular.
“So, that’s Goree,” he said, presently ; “ the
little island that has by turns been Dutch, Eng-
lish, Dutch again, French, English again, French
a second time, English once more—and, Anally,
French.”
“That’s Goree right enough,” said the skipper
of the Dream ; “ though I didn’t know the place
had been chucked to an’ fro like that. But
it's French now, at all events; and, for the job
we’ve got in hand, I wish it was ’most anything
else.”
Halsbnry—a middle-aged, middle-statured man,
with keen blue eyes and a tawny moustache—put
down the glasses. “ Why is that ?” he said.
Captain Bunster tugged at his short, grizzled
beard. “ Well, sir,” lie said, “ it’s this way.
Wherever, you find the Parlyvoo you find a
sickenin' lot of reg’lation, an’ red-tape, an’ Jack-
in-office, an* askin’ of questions, an’ signin’ of
papers, an’ all that rigmarole.”
“Well?” asked Halsbury, finding that his
skipper paused awkwardly.
“ Well, sir, I take it that we don’t exac’ly want
to have any spyin’ an’ pryin’ into what we’re here
for. The game is square enough, I make no
doubt.”,
“ If you’ve any misgiving on that point,” Hals-
bury began hastily; but the skipper held up his
hand. “I haven’t, sir—not a doubt that every-
thing’s real reg’lar an’ shipshape, from your
point of view. But, you see, what we’ve got to
consider is what the, officials here will think we’re
after if we don’t go into harbor, an’ what we’re
to say of ourselves if we do go in.”
“Where is the harbor? I don’t see any.”
“ Round on the other side of the island—such
as it is.”
“Well, never mind that; I don’t intend to go
in.”
“ All the better, sir; because, if they didn’t
like che account we gave of ourselves, they’d clap
a party of soldiers aboard, right away.”
“ Soldiers !—in that footy little place ? ” Hals-
bury stared at the town, all grey and dim now,
save where the sun-glow still lingered on the
castle of St. Michael, that tops the southern end
of the island.
“Soldiers? Yes, sir—plenty of ’eiq. Goree’san
important military post, or the Frenchies think
it is, at all events. And if we rang-off our engines
now, we’d have a guard-boat out to us in a jiffy,
late as it is.”
“Well, what do you propose, Captain Buns-
ter?”
“ I was thinkin’, sir, that, as it’s only about 45
miles down the coast to Bathurst, at the mouth
of the Gambia, we’d better stand-on as if we were
maltin’ for there. About midnight you want to
be off here, you say ? ”
“ Yes ; midnight or after.”
“Very good ; I’ll time her accordin’ly.”
The Dream stood on to the south in the gather-
ing darkness, and presently Halsbury said : “If
you’ll come below now, captain, we’ll have another
look at those directions I showed you. Won’t do
to make a mistake in the darkness.”
Gently, through the gloom of the early middle-
watch, the Dream slipped over the oily swell
towards the dark and silent town. Not an air-
breath stirred, and only here and there a star
showed faintly through the cloudy canopy.
“Almost too dark,” the yacht’s owner said to
her skipper, as they stood together on the bridge.
“ If we miss the exact spot we may spoil all.”
“Oh, that’ll be all right,” Bunster said, cheer-
fully. “I’ve got the directions well hammered
into my noddle, and I’ve got night heyes like a
howl. I’ll engage to put you right on the mark.”
“Very good,” Halsbury said—“then we’ll
chance it. And, in case anything should happen
to either of us—for there may be some danger in
the matter—l’ll answer now the question you have
never asked. What lam sneaking ashore here
for, at dead of night, is to bring away my
brother.” The skipper gave a low whistle of
astonishment. “My younger brother, who has
been for years in the indigo and ivory trade in
Dakar, on the mainland over there. Ever hear
of Stephen Halsbury and Co. when you were a
mate in this African trade?”
“No, sir; buu you see I was mostly runnin’ to
Fernando Po an’ the Congo. This place was off
our beat.”
“Well, Steve was prospering here—prospering
too much, in fact; for it was business jealousy
that first made things uncomfortable for him in
Dakar. Then came that Fashoda affair which got
him so intensely disliked, as an Englishman, that
he made up his mind to sell out and leave for
Europe. But here he was blocked. He had hap-
pened to get wind of a very fishy contract-trans-
action that some of the principal local function-
aries were mixed up in, and they arranged things
So that, when Steve happened to be over here in
Goree, he was prevented from leaving the island ;
and he is still detained there, under surveillance
mililaire, on suspicion of Lord-knows-what. Only
a dodge, of course, to keep him from getting to
Europe for the present. He might find his way
to Paris, you see, and make inconvenient com-
munications to the Bureau des Affaires Coloniales.
But, through the medium of a friendly Portuguese
merchant, he contrived to cable the situation to
his London agents. And, as he’s too closely
watched to escape otherwise, it was arranged that
I should come down here in this swift little hooker,
and get away with him on the quiet. He was to
hold himself in readiness every night from the
beginning of the present month ; and here we are
only four days behind that.”
“ I see, sir. Rummy fix to be in ; but it fits in
well with what I said about the Parlyvoos. But
all this must have meant a lot of cablin’, an’ I
can’t make out how the Froggies didn’t guess
there was some such game on.”
“The cables weren’t to my brother, man .' They
were to his Portuguese friend—and in code, of
course.”
“Oh, I see. Well, sir, I’ll be gettin’ a boat
over the side, an’ havin’ muffles put on the oars.
Real old-fashioned, naval cuttin’-out smack about
that kind o’ thing.”
Ten minutes later the Dream’s boat, with four
oars gently paddling, had crept in close under the
sea-wall, about midway on its western frontage.
“ Handsomely, now, men—not the ghost of a
splash ! ” the skipper said in a loud whisper as he
kept the boat away to the right, along the wall,
peering intently upwards as they went. Hardly
200 yards had been noiselessly traversed when
through the darkness loomed up above the wall a
barely distinguishable lofty mass of masonry.
The skipper put his mouth to Halsbury’s ear.
Got our bearin’s easy enough,” he whispered.
“ That’s the tower we were to make first; the
openin’ won’t be far away.”
In a couple of minutes more they arrived at a
low arch in the wall, beneath which the dark
water passed into still greater obscurity. It was
fairly wide ; but, as they turned softly into it, the
heave of the swell nearly brought their heads
against the stonework above. Inside, even Cap-
tain B'unster’s boasted “howl’’-like night vision
was hard put to it to discern that they were in a
short waterway of about five yards wide, ending
in a flight of steps that mounted to a small door
in the wall that faced the entrance and closed the
alley. Slowly the boat was brought to the foot of
the steps, and Bunster, with a whispered caution
to the men,, got gently out. Halsbury followed
him, and like shadows the two stole cautiously
away up the steps.
For about 10 minutes, then, all was still, and
the boat’s crew began to get uneasy. The bow-
oar had remarked in a hoarse whisper to No. 2
that it was “divilish dhrary worrk waitin’ there
in the darrk widout as much as a dhraw of the
poipe ” ; and No. 2 was in the act of Teutonically
replying that “Py Gott, it vas all von tarn pig
biece of voolishness !”—when three figures came
quickly and quietly down the steps. Two stepped
noiselessly into the boat, but the third—Captain
Bunster—stumbled as he stepped over the gunnel,
and instantly upon the hollow sound came from
above the challenge of a sentry.
“Pull gently to the entrance, men,” snapped
out the skipper in a half-whisper, “and then
give way for all you’re worth !”
A second time caine the quick “ Qui va la?”
followed almost instantly by the sharp bark of a
rifle. The bullet “ clumped ” into the water a
few feet in front of the boat; then, as she moved
ahead, another smote the wall in her rear; but,
unscathed, the party reached the exit. “Now’
you sinners! ” hissed the skipper as the boat
cleared the archway, “ put your backs into it like
Britqns!” The “Britons”—a Paddy, two
“Dutchmen,” and a Dago—bent manfully to
their oars, and in a few sconds the boat was flash-
ing to seaward over the sullen water. Literally
“ flashing,” for a brilliant phosporescence splashed
out under the oar-strokes and trailed sparkling
away astern, making a fair mark, and bringing
the bullets “clip-clipping” all round the craft.
. “Magazine-rifles, by Jiminy!” said the skipper.
“We’ll be lucky if we get aboard without any
holes in us ! ”
They were lucky to that extent; for, though
the oars were several times struck, the only bullet
that came aboard passed between the forward
oarsmen and went out through the bow-planldng.
Guided by the green twinkle of the Dream’s
(Continued on next page.)


1
I
'/7A
V/,
i
V///
wwmmmm
m.
i
w////
/
HORRIBLE ITCHING SKIN-BISEASE
MADE HOUSEWORK AN IMPOSSIBILITY.
HOW terrible are the ravages of eczema, and how great are the
disease-killing powers of Zam-Buk, are strikingly illustrated in
the experience of Mrs. S. A. Moore, of Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba (Q.), who says:
“I suffered with eczema on both my hands for five years. I found it
most inconvenient to be thus afflicted, especially on washing-days, when
the soap and soda used to cause me great suffering. The soreness and
itching irritation became so unbearable at last that I had to engage a girl
to do my housework. I consulted a chemist, but his treatment did me no
good. 1 also went to a doctor, who prescribed medicine and ointments,
and although I followed his instructions conscientiously my hands still
remained bad.
“ My mother strongly advised me to try Zam-Buk, and happening to read where a lady
had been cured of a bad case of eczema by Zam-Buk, I made up my mind to test the balm.
“The relief I derived from the first few applications was very comforting, and after
three weeks’ treatment with Zam-Buk my hands were practically free from this torturing
complaint. I was able to resume my household duties, including the washing, which
duty used previously to cause me such great distress. Thanks to Zam-Buk, eczema is
now a trouble of the past with me, and i always keep a pot of the balm in my home for
use when required. y
SOOTHING, HEALING, ANTISEPTIC.
It behoves everyone to take a lesson from the case of Mrs. Moore, and not neglect the smallest
sore or slightest sign of skin-disease, but avert all danger and risk of serious trouble by promptly
applying Zam-Buk. Zam-Buk is invaluable for Chapped Hands, Chilblains, Cold Sores, Smarting
Faces, Rough Skin, Winter Eczema, Piles, Boils, Cuts, Bruises, Burns, Scalds, and all injured
and diseased conditions of the skin. Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores at Is. 6d.
PER POT, 3s.
6d. LARGE
SIZE (contain-
ing nearly
four times ts.
6d.), or direct
from the Zam-
Buk Co., 3B
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
u
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally —you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for tHe Complexion.
starboard-light, they were soon alongside, and the
moment they had scrambled on board the boat
was run up to the davits and the engines were
rung on “ Full speed ahead.” But, as the little
steamer gathered way, the newoomer had a word
to say.
“If I might advise, I’d put her head to the
southward, so as to make them think we’re making
for Bathurst, or somewhere down there. Then,
when we’ve run a couple of miles or so, we can
make a good offing and head away north again.”
“Why so?” asked the other Halsbury. “What
does it matter which way they think we’ve gone?”
“ Because, if they see by—what do you call the
right-hand side? —oh, starboard—if they see by
our starboard light that we’ve gone northward,
they’ll cable to St. Louis; and, as there’s a
cruiser there at present, she’d probably try to cut
us off.”
“Very good,” said the yacht’s owner. “ She’d
have to be a mighty speedy craft, certainly, to
overhaul the Dream ; but it’s as well to take no
chances. Put her about at once, captain, will
you ? Of course, we could dowse all the glims, but
it's better to let them see our port light moving
southward.”
Bound swept the vessel to her helm, leaving the
curve of her wake marked out in shining seethe
upon the dark water, and hardly was her sharp
nose pointed south again when a fresh burst of
firing from the walls told them that the red port
light was a much more conspicuous object than
had beeu the starboard glimmer of green. Some
of the bullets fell pretty close, and one spanked
hard against the plating of the quarter; then, as
the yaeht got fairly into her speed, Goree slipped
away astern like a dream.
The brothers and the skipper went below for a
refresher. “ Well, gentlemen,” Bunster said, as
he raised his tumbler, “we pulled that off all
right. I congratilate you both ” —and down
wont the libation.
Stephen Halsbury nodded a stiff acknowledg-
ment. He was a lean, brown, clean-shaven man,
lo iking older than the elder brother. “ What is
slie doing now ? ” he asked, cocking his ear to the
swift rush of water past the sides.
“A good 18,” the skipper said, complacently.
An’ I could screw another knot an’ a half out of
her on a pinch.”
“Hum! say 20 knots, then, at the outside. I
wonder how We’d stand for speed with the
Joanne d ? j|rc?”
“ The cruiser you spoke of ? ” asked his brother.
“Yes. She’s a new vessel, and she’s credited
with, 42 kilometres an hour—whatever that may
mean in knots.”
“Soon tell you that.” The elder Halsbury
took out notebook and pencil and sat down at
the cabin table. He figured for a minute or so
—then looked up with a shake of the head. “It
works out at nearly 24 knots,” he said. “Of
course, that may be only her measured trial
record ; but, even with a knot or so off, she’d
still have the heels of us. But, at the worst,
Steve, what can they do? You’re a British sub-
ject in a British ship. They can’t touch you
now.”
“It won’t do to count too much on that,”
Stephen Halsbury answered. “ The Prefect of
Goree-Sakar will be shaking in his shoes with
terror of iny getting to Europe with what I know
about his little financial games—quite enough to
lose him his post; if not to land him and others
in prison. So lie’s pretty sure to send over the
cable some charge, serious enough to justify the
cruiser in seizing me in the meantime. It could
be made out afterwards to be a mistake; and,
when the Prefect’s term of office is over, he
needn’t trouble about me.”
The other Halsbury turned to the skipper.
“What do you think, captain, about standing
well out tovyards the Cape Verde Islands as we
run up again ? That would slip this cruiser, if he
should happen to be on the prowl for us.”
It was thus agreed upon ; and wlion, half an
hour later, the yacht was once more put about;
the course given to the quarter-master at the
wheel was nor’-west by west. “That’s dead on
for Boavista,” the skipper said ; “and we’ll keep
it till we sight the island—a good 300 miles of an
offing—before we lay her head nor’-east for home.”
**' * *
The Prefect of Goree-Sakar didn’t take any
risks. “ This accursed Englishman,” he said to
himself, “will seek to be revenged. It is to
Europe—to Paris—he will go with his-informa-
tion. This heading southward at first was of
course but a blind ; it would be childish to put
any faith in that."
So the cable spoke to St. Louis, 120 miles up
the coast; with the result that at daybreak next
morning the Jeanne d’ Arc was steaming out of
the Senegal River, to look out for “a steam yacht,
about 200 tons ; white, blue stripe ; black-topped
white funnel; two pole-masts, very raking”—a
precision of information that showed what good
use the Goree observers had made of their eyes
during the passage southward, at sunset, of the
vessel suspected of having returned in the dark-
ness for the levanted Englishman. And the
cruiser’s captain, knowing what he himself would
have done had he been in charge of the fugitive
vessel, headed straight out to sea, in the hope of
intersecting the nor’-westerly course which he cor-
rectly judged the yacht would be taking.
And thus it was that next day, a little after
noon, the Dream’s skipper detected on the eastern
horizon a faint feather of smoke, which he watched
intently until he convinced himself that it was
nearing rapidly. He hastened to the engine-
room voice-tube. “Give her every pound of
Steam you can, Mac,” he called down. “She’ll
*»ave to put her best foot foremost now, or
I’m confoundedly mistook ! Yes, sir,” Bunster
answered then to Halsburv’s inquiring look ; “ I
Relieve it’s that cussed cruiser. From the rate
that smoke’s risin’ on us, there must be a tremen-
dously fast vessel under it. She’s coinin’ right
west-awav, too ; as if they’d dropped to our little
game. But we ought to rise Boavista in a couple
of hours ; an’, if we can once get into Portuguese
waters, we can laugh at him. I wouldn’t have
any doubt about that, if it was a dead-on s'tarn
chase; but you see were runnin’ on the slope,
like.”
One of the speediest things of her tonnage
afloat, the Dream was now slicing through it
little short of 20 knots,' so that from her knife-
like “entrance” a foamy swirl of water rose
high as the rail on either side, and trailed away
far out astern. Yet still the smoke in the east
rose higher and higher; and soon the glass re-
moved all doubt about the kind of vessel it came
from.
“He’s cornin’ up hand-over-fist,” the skipper
said. “It’s time we were gettin’ you stowed
away, Mr., HJalsbury. There’s Boavista only just
peepin’up now, so we’d be overhauled long be-
fore-we touched the three-mile limit. By Jiminy,
that chap’s a flier, and no mistake ! Now, sir,
come bjelow, an’ I’ll fix you up where no bloomin’
Johnny All-taut will be likely to search, what-
ever a Custom House weasel might do if he was
pokin’ around for smuggled cigars.”
The fugitive followed the skipper below, and
five minutes later Bunster came on deck again
just as a jet of snowy smoke sprang from the
ctuiser’s forecastle and a heavy thud shook the
air. Bunster put his hand on the engine-room
telegraph and looked inquiringly at Halsbury.
“We can’t possibly get away, I suppose? ” the
latter asked.
“No chance, sir. That gun was unshotted ;
but we’d better ring off before he takes to puttin’
iron pills in our prescription ! ”
Halsbury nodded ; the telegraph spoke, and
the Dream began slowly to lose her way. Pre-
sently, with engines reversed, she was checked to
a dead stop, while the cruiser came surging along
at actual railroad speed, and in ten minutes
had ranged up, about a cable’s length away, on
the yacht’s starboard beam. She was long, low
and black, with white upper-works; three yellow
funnels, a single “military” mast forward, and
the tricolor flaunting from a staff astern. With
naval celerity a quarter-boat was dropped and
manned, and a couple of minutes later a sous-
lieutenant and half a dozen seamen scrambled on
board the Dream.
Politely the officer saluted. “Vat sheep ees
dees 1 '? -’’-ffrejasked.
“The Dream,” Bunster answered, “of London,
and/or London, from a pleasure cruise.”
The Frenchman smiled knowingly'. “ Plaisure
cruise?” he said. “Zen you ’ave passenjair, eh ?
But, firrst, I mus’ see your papier.”
“ I must refer you to my howner, munsheer,”
the skipper said, with a wave of his cap towards
Halsbury. “He is the honly passenger we have
on board.”
“We decline to produce the ship’s papers to an
officer of a foreign navy, sir,” Halsbury said,
coming forward. “ And I wish to know by what
authority you stop, in time of peace, a vessel fly-
ing the British flag?”
The Frenchman smiled and nodded, as who
should say : “Quite right! Of course, you pro-
test —that was only to be expected.” But he
knew his business. “Sare,” he said, politely,
“ v is autorite I ’ave nossing to make—to do, 1
mean. Merely I obey ze orrdares ; an’ I ’ave not
no times to loss—so ’ave ze goodness to mustare
all your peoples immediatement.”
“ Not a man, sir ! ” Halsbury returned, firmly.
“ Zen I mus’ sairsh ye sheep.”
“ Under the guns of your vessel, sir, we cannot
prevent you from doing so. But this is an out-
rage of which more will be heard.”
Halsbury turned on his heel, and the officer
gave an order to his men, who immediately scat-
tered fore and aft to search the vessel.
For fully half an hour they rummaged below,
without finding anybody at all answering to the
description upon which the officer was acting.
Then the man left in the boat alongside swung
himself hastily on board to say that the cruiser
had signalled recall—“ Squall coming.”
Captain. Bunster had already noted that away
to the sou’-Vest there was rapidly rising a bank
of lead-colored cloud, shot with strange, greenish
reflections, and margined at the horizon by a
scarcely-seen white line.
“By Jiminy ! ” exclaimed the skipper, “ it’s a
chubasco bianco, sure enough. That big fellow
needn’t mind it much, but it’ll be a lot above our
weight if it catches us fair. I think I can dodge all
but the skirt of it, though, by keepin’ full-speed
ahead as we were goin’.” He had his hand on
the telegraph, and the moment the Frenchmen
were in their boat he rang on, and the yacht was
soon dashing ahead again towards Boavista,
showing now like a faint brown smudge on the
nor’-western horizon.
The chubasco was travelling nor’-easterly, but
so widely did it open out as it came that Bunster
had everything made fast and battened down.
“Lucky if we don’t get more than the edge of
it,” he said, as the fringe of the coming darkness
reached the yacht, and the racing foam-ridge
gleamed higher and whiter against the sullen
blackness behind. Then, suddenly, the deep
humming note that had filled the air rose to a
piercing, tearing shriek, and the Dream—racing
desperately to clear the western edge of the mad
wind-rush—was hove-down as sharply upon her
beam ends as if a giant had jerked her over by the
mast heads. Almost as quickly, however, she
righted ; and then to those on board of her was
presented the extraordinary spectacle of a furious
tumult of wind and rain and tortured sea sweep-
ing past hardly a couple of hundred yards astern,
while all further token of the disturbance that
reached the yacht was a thin spatter of giant
rajn drops.
“By Jiniiny 1” 'said the skipper, after about a
minute during which nobody spoke, “that was a
near thing!; That was a patilla —a ‘whisker,’
as the Spaniards call such puffs—that caught
us. If we had been a quarter of a mile
more to the east’ard, 10 to one Old Davy would
have been stowin’ us away in his locker by now.
I see nothin’of the Frenchman. I suppose he’s
Steamin’ away full-bat before it. Four-an’-twenty
knots will take a lot of the weight out of a
chubasco eveq.”
“Very remarkable phenomenon,” Halsbury
said, rubbing an elbow which had been badly
bruised when the sudden heel of the vessel flung
him against the starboard bulwarks. “Often
happen hereabout ? ”
“Pretty frequent about the beginnin’ of the
rains—as it is now ; though I can’t say I ever saw
one quite as clean-cut in the edge as this was.
But, God bless my soul, sir ! we’re forgettin’ your
brother.”
The skipper hurried away, and Halsbury fol-
lowed slowly, smiling at the thought that amongst
such strenuous happening he had, for the time,
quite forgotten his brother’s presence on board.
Then the smile disappeared as Bunster rushed up
on deck again, with a face as blanched as was
possible to its long-standing bronze.
“Good Lord, sir!” the skipper said-f breath-
lessly, “ don’t come down just yet. There’s been a
bit of a liaceident! That sudden heel to the
vessel”
“ Where is he?” Halsbury said, quietly. “Take
me there at once.”
Infected by the other’s calmness. Bunster
turned and led the way to the stokehold ; and
there, stretched on the deck, with the assistant-
engineer and a couple of firemen bending over
the figure, Halsbury saw it. For the moment
bis look fell upon the blankly staring eyes, the
drooping jaw, and the trickle of blood -from a
corner of the mouth, he knew that what lay
before him was it—not he.
Halsbury lifted one of the hands ; then let it
fall limply back. “How was it?” he said, briefly.
“I ’ad ’im planted in the starboard coal
bunker,” the skipper said, with what was almost
a sob; “planted beautiful, with a tarpaulin over
’im, an’ a tidy layer of coal over that, an’ a six-foot
length of hose to breathe through. But—oh
Lord, oh Lord! —when the craft heeled over
sudden she brought down a couple o’ ton
o’c&al qn top of’im. These chaps was only just
clearin’ the last of it off him when I come down.
But p’raps he ain’t dead after all, sir. I’ll run aft
an’ get ” ——
“He is dead beyond all doubt. But you are in
no way to blame, Bunster.” - Halsbury wrung the
skipper’s hand. “ You have done your best—as
I have done mine—but the Unforeseen has beaten
us.” . .
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky,
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR *
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness’
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘Fruit salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver Bowels Skin mSiriSn™
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has beentakenfntheearlie*t
stages of a disease, it has, m innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness. *
CAUTlON.—Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO’S ‘FRTTTT smtT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery-IMITATION™ SALT ’
Prepared only by J. C. BHO Ltd, ‘FRUIT SALT • WORKS, London,
5.8., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA:
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel,
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
1 a fM : I
Companions
A GOOD COMPLEXION
g»*S?
m
II
"
■
■
m
il!
ii
i\
l
t
T**% AND,
Beec-hams Pills
ĥ
Owing' to its cleansing'
action on the Kidneys
and other organs it is
a real healths tonic.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Doxald Clark. 600 \>a_ . royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. '■ 12s. 6d.
Thibablt. 230 pages, deinv octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Saryaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Pricks Nett.
e v
*
honesth 7 and without charge.
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending- all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
full}' about your case
and I will advise you
S.H.HENSHALL,
Eeg-d. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
DR. <J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/ti, 2/9 & 4/6
ħ
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
©. BRANDAUER & Co.’s,
Circular Pointed
Pens]
Seven
P**iao Medals.
Works :
Birmingham
h
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt, they glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.oding Ser.es.
Ask your S torekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ĥ
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Th« Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
\ *
, CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
•S. GREEN, 210, Lain bet 1 1 Road- London, Eng.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
k l/EACH POST FREE 3/2
Quality Not Better
'in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
Sydney.
STOREKEEPERS A: TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
ASTHMACURE
GRIMLTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous v,uu
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedia
relieved Dy GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN
E' : TES. Sn cf hi O.V CMrmisU.
s Coughs,
tediately
CIGAB-
M I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the fame
diseases itiiout
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name 3W
m
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
*
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
■
fYAvr
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret iB—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men ’s profi ts.y
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Get Better Hose
h
OUR “Watershed” Red
Rubber Hose is our own
make, and tiie very best
obtainable. It will not crack,
burst, peel or leak, and is light,
strong and flexible.
Prices are :
Coil rate in any length—
a multiple of 10ft.
sin. x'3-ply, Bd. per foot; figures
out at 10ft., 6/8 ; 20ft., 13/4 ;
30ft., 20/-; 40ft., 26/8;
60ft., 40/-
}in. x 3-ply, 10|d. per foot;
figures out at 10ft., 8/9;
20ft., 17/6 ; 30ft., 26/3 ;
40ft., 35/- ; 60ft., 52/6.
Add to these prices for any
length of hose, 3/- for fittings.
■ to-day, or write for Price List and Samples which
includes details of all our grades, and is free for the asking.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Bubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS arid FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 58 of our Motors.
Australasian Agency:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street , SYDNEY. [2
Fibr 0-Ccment
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Qrey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2£in. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ” to Sole Importer*,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS -New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten, 6d.
ĥ
BE UP-TO-DATE AND USE
THE
Electric Shearing Machines,
British Made. Therefore Reliable.
Write for information to
DALGETY & CO . LTD.,
SOLE AGENTS.
%
c
ft
'O
ħ
h
IT*
m
m
mm
Where a PORTABLE STEAH ENGINE
is required we strongly recommend
The Claytoa 8 Shuttleworth
WELL KNOWN AMONGST AGRICULTURISTS S
ĥ
ħ
DALCETY & CO. LTD.
Miller’s Point,
SYDNEY.
A.E.
m
m
The Slip Rings of these Motors are enclosed in separate
case and protected by a number of plates so arranged that
in the case of an explosion occurring inside the case the
temperature of the gas is so reduced by passage through the
plates that explosion of the external firedamp is impossible.
Write for Leaflet FED 179.
h
40 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
172 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
NOYES
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers.
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
1 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
Electrical Engineers
and Contractors.
BEC
BEER
ROCKBREAKERS and CRUSHING ROLLS
COARSE and FINE ORE SCREENS
THE “KING”
THE “GYRAL”
CARD ORE CONCENTRATOR — Made in Two Styles.
FOR EXTRACTING METALLICS FROM FINE AND COARSE PULP.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd., 263 George Street, Sydney; 525 Collins Street, Melbourne
