

DEWAR'S -All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. G. WATEHTS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Jeffrey Conveyors
FOR CONVEYING GOODS
IN BULK OVER LONG AND
SHORT DISTANCES.
128 William Street,
HOBAKT,
fiadleys Orient [)otel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *V.
Guaranteed,
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Lcf.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
" Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTONS
Pine-Apple Brand I
HAMS ®
BACON.
SAFES
PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs. .
HANSENS
u
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
m
,V**i
••♦lt*
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE*
y< s */
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN SPIGOT & FAUCET TUBES
The light weight of these Tubes makes transport easy.
AGENTS ... NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET.
00D&
Shearing'
Machines
16 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
MALTHOID as a roofing will be found eminently satisfactory under
all conditions—the heaviest rain cannot affect it, neither wind nor
storm can displace it. Once a MALTHOID roof is properly laid,
there is nothing in the world to compare with it. The success of
MALTHOID has raised quite a crop of inferior imitations.
Beware of “the looks like it” 'kind—insist on MALTHOID.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY \J°
THE? CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
C. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
The Bulletin
Vol.3l—No. 1572.]
[Thursday, March 31, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


ON ANY SUBJECT.
Write us for any Books you Require.
We Welcome Inquiries.
GEORGE ROBERTSON&aXPROP. Ltd.
71 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro longed
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung 1 .
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I 9 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
American Fiction
SINCE the passingof the international
Copyright Act the American author
has come into his own, and the
piratical publishers of current literature
are being frozen out of tusiness. For
many years a bitter cry went up from
the native writers that they had no
chance in the competition with cheap re-
prints of British copyright books, and if an
American author became popular he had
no protection against British pirates. In
such circumstances, they said, no great
indigenous fiction could grow. Now that
is all changed. The American author
can fully protect himself in Britain, and
he lifts the first call on the home market.
Last year, according to the American
Bookman , 24 out of the 28 “best sellers”
were novels by American writers. In
addition to the big home trade, America
exports a large amount of fiction. The
conditions so long desired are therefore
now in existence, and “ the great Ameri-
can novel ” may arrive any day.
At present, American fiction is in a
flabby state. The strong Puritan strain
in the early inhabitants of the States,
which is represented in Nathaniel Haw-
thorne’s work and can be seen, thinning
out, in the stories of Mrs. Sally Greene
and Mary Wilkins, has left a blur of
smugness in the American character. In
a country where there is probably more
crime to the square inch than in any
other, Grundy reigns' supreme. The
greater part of their current literature
has been brought up on a milk diet; it
lacks the breadth and depth of virility.
Most of the popular novels are “ quick-
lunch ” fiction, to be read rapidly and
forgotten more rapidly. As good ex-
amples of this class as any are the
flimsy “ Graustark ” romances of G. B.
McCutcheon, of which the latest is
Truxton King (Dymock’s). McCutcheon
dropped on to a claim abandoned by
Anthony Hope, and found payable dirt
below the pipeclay. (It is true that
Stevenson was there before Hope, and
Beyle before Stevenson—but that doesn’t
matter.) McCutcheon is appropriately
illustrated by Harrison Fisher,-who bor-
rowed his type from Dana Gibson and
debased it. Of the same pattern as
Truxton King is Arthur Goodrich’s The
jjady Without Jewels. (George Robertson
& Co.). The usual heroic American
charges into the Count of Ardenelles’
territory, puts it on a paying basis, has
a big adventure or two, and is lucky in
love. This kind of thing is only a little
better than the Family Herald novelette,
which used to be devoured by middle
class snobs as eagerly as by Mary J ane.
Novels dedicated to a specific purpose
in the campaign of exposure were referred
to the other week. They have their day
and raise a stink—the bigger the stink
the longer the day. One writer of that
class, Frank Norris, might have written
“ the great American novel,” but he died
before his powers had fully developed.
The few realists who have followed in the
track of Howells have not yet done any-
thing considerable. One of the best is
Robert Herrick, author of Together ; but
David Graham Phillips has attained
greater popularity. His Hungry Heart
(Geo. Robertson and Co.) is the other
side of Old Wives for New. In the latter
a lazy wife loses the love of her husband ;
in the former a pre-occupied husband
loses his wife’s love and is responsible for
her adultery. The husband is impossible,
but the story is a strong one, and if it is
true to life it shows that the alleged
chivalrous respect for women by American
men is a hollow sham. And if Phillips
is only fairly accurate in his other pic-
tures of American society it should have
been the last in the world to draw the
line at Maxim Gorky and his lady friend.
The kind of stories which Americans
might be expected to produce in better
style than any other is that of adventure.
They had a virgin field to themselves.
Fenimore Cooper turned “ the noble red
men ” and the white pioneers to good
advantage, and Bret Harte found rich
romantic material in the sentimental
diggers and proud outcasts of the "Western
States. But the Indian, the scout and
the cowboy soon fell into the hands of
the manufacturers of penny dreadfuls,
and rarely has the free and un-
conventional life of the West found
expression in a novel of any quality.
Wister’s The Virginian was welcomed for
its freshness and vigor, and R. L.
Wason’s Hupp// Hawkins (Geo. Robert-
son and Co.) is a creditable mixture of
cowboy adventure, love and philosophy.
Wason is natural and humorous, and in
the heroine, Barbie, he has drawn a
character which appeals to most novel
readers. This story is decidedly superior
to any of the “Graustark ” concoctions.
American women have done very well
in a class of fiction wherein sentiment
and humor are neatly mixed, and the
subjects are girls and boys. Kate
Douglas Wiggin and Mrs. Rice are
rivalled by Miss L. M. Montgomery,
whose Anne of Greengables, and its sequel,
Anne of A'vonlea (Page and Co.), are
charming stories of a girl with a fertile
imagination and the gift of happiness.
Not one in a hundred of the books in
. this class appeal to children. They are
appreciated by old men and mothers, and
most of them are painfully mawkish.
Their Heart's Desire, by Frances Perry
(Dymock’s), might mawk unnoticed if the
story, which wins feminine praise as
“sweetly pretty,” were not gorgeously
arrayed in borders of heliotrope and gold,
and adorned with “awfully nice” pic-
tures by Fisher. In this way a mere
pennyworth of pastry a la Fauntleroy is
swollen to ten times its natural size, and
sold for 10s. 6d.
9
The most artistic department of Ameri-
can fiction is that of short stories. Here
the writers have followed French models,
and, with the encouragement of big
prices from the magazines, have turned
out work’ which, as a whole, is
better than that of Britishers. It is
curious, though, that Ambrose Bierce, a
living writer Avhose short stories are the
*most remarkable since Edgar Allan Poe’s,
should, like Poe, find his reputation
established in England before his country-
men thought much about him. Of all
the American writers now alive, Ambrose
Bierce and Henry James are the only
two whose work can be designated as
that of genius. At one time James was
expected to write “the great American
novel”; but he left America long ago,
and none of his numerous novels is typical
of America. We do not see that a
“great American novel,” ?>., great in
style and all-embracing in character, is a
possibility, but the Americans seem to
think so and to be looking eagerly for it.
The latest candidate for the pinnacle is
A Certain Rich Man, by William Allen
White (Sydney Book Club). This,
according to some reviewers, is IT. This
is the great representative work for
which Hawthorne, Cooper and all the
rest have prepared the way. In many
respects it is a representative work. The
pawky humor, the sentiment and the
religiosity are characteristically Ameri-
can. The story tells of the growth of a
little village into a busy manufacturing
centre, and the development of a poor
village boy into a millionaire. A keen
bargainer as a boy, the lust of power
made John Barclay unscrupulous in the
chase of the dollar. He mixed mud with
oatmeal and sold it as “ Barclay’s Best.”
When wealth came the habit of acquisi-
tion and the joy of scheming kept him
adding to it. Before the end he “ got
salvation,” and presented his card-index
of corrupt politicians to the Government.
There were plenty of living models for
Barclay. Rockefeller with his recent
conscience-stricken gift to charity, makes
a close parallel. There are also plenty of
Barclays in American fiction. The story
contains some other character studies of
typical Americans—the horse-thief who
becamesenator and afterwards judge in the
interests of Barclay’s corporation; the little
saddler who, in a blaze of patriotic fervor,
“ wrote a song that thrilled the nation,”
and General Ward, the high-minded
idealist, whose son administered poetic
justice by helping in the exposure of
Barclay and winning the love of Barclay’s
daughter. These are genuine specimens
of their respective classes, and they are
alive. But the people in the story are
not so important as the village. Bor its
panoramic view of the forty years’ growth
of a typical Kansas settlement the book
is excellent.
The construction, however, is poor.
The story is written in a retrospective
vein, and moves backwards and forwards
in an irritating fashion. The style, too,
is ordinary. A Certain liich Man may
prove to be the Uncle Tom’s Cabin of the
crusade against wealth, but it is not
great liction. “ The great American
novel” has not yet arrived.
Anthologies
“ Of the making of anthologies there is no'
end ” —so the doleful ancient would re-write
his complaint if he » could see the
steadily increasing output of books of
selections from other books. Wherever
the flowers of poetry have begun to
bloom che anthologists arrive early to
help in the process of natural selection.
Sometimes, through haste or blindness, they
gather weeds to treasure with the rarest
blossoms, and hardly one selection has been
made whicji every interested reader would
not like to improve upon. For, as Henley
said, “to read poetry at all is to have an
ideal anthology of one’s own, and in that
possession to be incapable of content with
the anthologies of all the world besides.”
The advantage of having such a wealth of
poetry in English is thaGyou can make end-
less combinations. Apart froin the variety
due to the personal equation in each case,
there is room for an indefinite number of
divisions, according to subject, kind of poetry,
etc. Poems about love or insanity, about
babies, beer, flowers or funerals can be
separated from the mass. Divide again and
get ballads, odes or sonnets on each subject,
including sonnets on the sonnet, etc. Then
you have poems whose titles begin with
“A,” “B” or “C,” poems written by
persons named Smith, and so on. The
assumption is that in each ease the poems
selected are the best of their kind ; but you
can go to the other end and select the
worst. It would require, a genius of high
order to discover and edit the Hundred
Worst Poems at any given moment ; but
failing that desirable volume, a useful one
could be made of Doggerel by Great Writers
(with not more than six specimens from
Wordsworth).
* * * *
Two professors in the University of
Sydney, M. W. MacCallum arid E. R.
Holme, have chosen certain English Narra-
tive Poems (Blackie and Son, per Dyniock’s),
as it seemed to them that “ a collection of
typical narrative poems would be interesting
and useful ... perhaps to the general reader,
and certainly to junior students.” If junior
students have to read these poems for ex-
amination purposes, no doubt they will
think it is a good thing to have them all in
one book. There its utility ends, for there
are no notes or explanatory remarks.
Though notes are often memorised and
slavishly copied by the examinee, they are
more often a valuable aid to the intelligent
student. *
It is difficult to imagine that a collection
like this would appeal to the general reader.
Anyone reading for pleasure would rather
have Milton’s short poems than a chunk of
“ Paradise Lost,” or Blake’s lyrics rather
than a leaf from “ The Book of
Thel,” and he would not waste much
time over anything by Parnell or Crabbe.
Few people read verse for the sake
of the story ; but those who do will find
stories told more tersely and poetically in
ballads and lyrics—forms excluded from this
collection. There .is no need to cavil at the
selection, though Tennyson might have been
represented, if only by “The Voyage of
Maeldune.” The principal value of the book
is that, to anyone who wishes to see, it shews
how the narrative form has developed since
Spenser’s “ Faerie Queen.”
Two Scotch professors, W. M. Dixon and
H. Grierson, have made a similar but more
comprehensive selection— The English Par-
nassus : an Anthology of Longer Poems
(Clarendon Press). It begins with Chaucer,
and comprises narrative and other forms,
such as lyrics from Marlowe, Milton, Dryden
and Tennyson, and it closes with the first
version of the “ Rubaiyat.” This variety in
style makes the succession of poems more
agreeable reading, andthe notes undoubtedly
enhance the value of the book to the student
or teacher.
-•• * *
An anthology with a special interest for
Australians is E. H. Crouch’s Treasury of
South African Poetry and Verse, of which a
second edition has been published by Fifield,
London. Anyone who has watched the
development of literature in Australia will be
curious toknowhow it has fared with a distant
people of the same blood and speech, whose
conditions of life are in many ways similar
to our own. Verse forms the best material
for comparison. E. H. Crouch wards off
any suggestion of measuring his Treasury
against such a one as Palgrave’s.
Still it is hoped and believed that in the fairer
and more just comparison with the productions of
such sister colonies as Maoriland, Australia and
even Canada, it will be found that relatively
S. Africa compares not unfavorably, despite the
fact—a very vital one—that these colonies have
(with the one exception) been favored in possessing
from their earliest history more uniformity of
language, greater sympathy between the various
sections of its people ; and, above all, fortunate in
the ex[>erience of a calmer flow in their historic
annals.
This “calmer flow” is the very thing that
has been regarded by many as a disadvantage
in Australia. However that may be, as un-
prejudiced a view as possible leads us to the
conclusion that South Africa is a good way
below Australia and below Maoriland in
poetical achievement. Charles Harpur might
be set off against Thomas Pringle, and
Harpin'attimes reached a higher level. With-
out bringing in Gordon, who was an immi-
grant, there is no South African equal to
Kendall in melody; and there are no ballads
to match Lawson’s or Paterson’s in force
and naturalness. There are some fair verses
expressing the homesickness of immigrants,
loyalty and praise of England, the usual
sentimental ditties, and a good many descrip-
tions of landscape and drought which might
have been written in Australia. The veldt
has awakened emotions similar to those in-
spired by our back country. Perceval
Gibbon writes of it :
. . . the veldt, mv veldt,
Is more than any church, more vastly still
Than grey cathedrals drowsing down the years.
More fraught with solemn meanings and dim
dreams,
Than any storied hive of shaveling saints.
The Bushmen, “ poor waifs upon creation’s
skirts,-” and the unfortunate trek oxen have
been- treated sympathetically ; and some of
the native flora and fauna have found a place
in these verses. One writer, M. E. Barber,
has a lino :
Oh ! fair bright-eyed Mesembryanthemum,
which may immortalise the Karoo flower of
that prodigious name. '
Some of the best poems are those of Lance
Fallaw, now in Australia, and Edith Vivian,
who left Sydney to die in South Africa while
still young. Crouch includes as the solitary
example of the work of one John Noble the
lines beginning :
Lay me low, my work is. done ;
I am weary, lay me low
which Sladen attributed to Gordon, and
upon which a note by E. Wilson Dobbs was
printed on this page (20 l/’lO). The verses
first appeared without signature in All the
Year Round, 1873. \
Contemporary German Poetry, selected
and translated by Jethro Bithell (The Canter-
bury Poets) will give the English reader a
vague idea of the quality of modern Ger-
man poetry. The editor has an extensive
knowledge of the literature drawn upon
for his book, but he sins against the
first commandment to translators—“ Thou
shalfc not turn that which is a poem
in one language into something not a
poem in another. Some of his originals are
certainly as dull and uninspired as could
well be found ; but of the best you only get
the sediment of poetry in these translations;
whatever sparkle or life they had is gone.
Richard Delnnel, socialist, is the most con-
siderable poet in the bunch. One of his
followers, Arno Holz, is represented by a
symbolistic effort, which needed a footnote :
By night around mv temple grove
Watch seven bronze cows;
A thousand many-colored stone lamps shimmer.
On a red throne of arumlae
I sit in the Holy of Holies.
Over me,
Through the sandal-wood rafters,
In the square cut out,
Stand the stars.
I blink.
If I stood up now,
My ivory shoulders would smash the roof,
And the egg-shaped diamond before my brow
Would ram the moon !
The fat priests may snore in peace.
I shall not rise.
I squat with folded legs,
And contemplate my navel,
Which is a bleeding ruby
In a naked belly of gold.


ace
Everything for
Everybody at
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
rrs.
C 5
AJ DO^
1
a
u.
**4>
ioT
CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE
BROAD CUT.
The Tobacconist section of our business,
hitherto carried on in Gculburn Street, is
now located in newly-fitted premises at
the corner of GEORGE and SWAN
STREETS, alongside the New Palace
Emporium, Brickfield Hill.
Write for our complete list of Tobacco,
Cigars and Smokers' Requisites, posted free
on application, and reap the full benefit of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Carreras’ Special Double Broad Cut Tobacco.
this tobacco is specially mao cinctured by Carreras Ltd., for Anthony Hordern and Sons, and
all discriminating shiokers are recommended to give It a trial. The new method of cutting- and
mixing adopted for the CARRERAS' SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD CUT ensures the exact
blend intended by the Manufacturer.
With CARRERAS’ SReCIAL DDUBLE BROAD CUT the NATURAL TOBACCO is in
LARGE PIECES, absolutelvEltEE from STALE. and CUT in siich a way that the WEIGHT of
the DIFFERENT PARTICLES is PRACTICALI/ir the SAME. This etefines# ensures the PIPE
being FILLED with ALL the DIFFERENT TOBACCOS id the MIXTURE in the PRECISE PRO;
PORTIONS intended by the BLENDERS, consequently the EXACT FLAtOR is at ALL TIMES
MAINTAINED.
When the pipe is lighted it will be found that CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD
CUT allows the AIR to PASS through the TOBACCO as EASILY as through a DRY SPO'NGE,-
atld the SMOKE REACHES THE MOUTH FILTERED OF ALL ITS HEAT.
The pipe always DRAWS FREELY, and with a DELICIOUS COOLNESS, because the tobacco
CANNOT form into LUMPS,- Such as Most smokers have experienced with FINE-CUT MIXTURES.
CARRERAS' SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD CUT TOBACCO smokes PURE and SWEET to
the BOTTOM of the PIPE, leaving a MINIMUM of ASH, and the COMBUSTION is SO PERFECT
that it ACTUALLY goes TWICE AS FaR AS CHEAPER MIXTURES,
Packed in patent vacuiimised tins, guaranteed to keep the tobaeeo in good condition for
any time in any climate
MEDIUM STRENGTH—2oz., Is. 3d., fry post, fs. 6d. ; 40*., 2s. 6d., fry post, 2s, Iod. 5
per lb., 9s. 6d.; postage—N.S.W., #d, * otWer States,- Is.- id.- Extra.-
GEM
JUNIOR
S af e ty Razor
WITH THE
NEW
BAR
' Makes an
(deal Present for any Man.
■4V (<v
r~&
sr
S3*
GE
"V
r
The Gem Junior Safety Razor, with the New Bar, adds still
further to the efficiency of this popular Safety Razor. THE GEM JUNIOR
provides a keen blade for each day in the week. Every blade automatically
adjusts itself, attd as the BLADE does the shaving, it is the first consideration.
Gem Jilxiiof Blades are made from the best razor steel, tempered by
a process patented by the Gem Cutlery Co. (the oldest makers of Safety
liazors), and assure a keen lasting edge.
After using Gent Junior Blades several times they may be stropped
—the steel is superior, the temper "’id edge so fine that stropping makes
them as good as ever,
The New Bar smoothes out the creases of the skin, raises the beard
just ahead as the cutting edge, and makes perfect shaving a simple matter.
The Gem Junior Safety Razor is made and finished in the best
style, of the best materials, and by the best workmanship. It comprises
Nickel-plated Frame, extra handle for Stropping Blades, and Seven Keen-
edged Blades packed in neat case.
Anthony Horderns’
Price, 5|6
By Post, 5J9
ANTHONY HORDERNS’for
Cigars, Cigarettes £ Tobacco
CHOICE HAVANA CIGARS.
The Havana Cigars enumerated below will appeal to the City Man,
who looks for the highest quality leaf at a moderate price.
OUR REGISTERED BRANDS.
Semper Eadem, Repalia de la) Reina .. .. 5 for 1/- .. 50, 9/6
Triumph, Rothschild's .. .. .. .. 3 for 1/- .. 25, 8/-
!3
*>^Z} ,/ '<*»Pjp€SmeAerx% . ‘J. I
TIP-TOP TOBACCO.
A. H. and S., 14 to lb., 3d ; 8 to lb.,
4ld. per plug ; 2/11 per lb.
SEMPER EADEM, Dark, 6 to lb.,
lOd per plus: ; 4/- per lb.
SEMPER EADEM, Dark, cut, 4oz.
pkt., 1/1 ; 4/3 per lb.
TRIUMPH, Dark, 4J plugs to lb.,
1/2 per plug-; 5/2 lb.
TRIUMPH, Dark, cut, 4oz. Packet,
1/5 per pkt. ; 6/8 per lb.
TRIUMPH, Aromatic, 5 plugs to lb.,
1/2 per plug ; 5/6 per lb.
TRIUMPH, Aromatic, cut, 4oz. pkt.
1/6; 5/11 lie
PALACE MIXTURE, 4oz. tin, 2/- ;
per lb., 7/6.
SUPERB COARSE CUT MIXTURE,
2oz. tin, 1/3; 4oz. tin, 2/6; per
lb., 9/.
ARCHER'S ALBION CHIPS, 20z.,
1/3; 40z., 2/6 ; 9/- lb.
TRIUMPH CIGARETTES.
TRIUMPH, VIRGINIA, hand-made, in 4oz. boxes ;
plain or cork-tipped, 3/- per box ; 11/0 per lb.
TRIUMPH, TURKISH, hand-made, in 4oz. boxes ;
plain only ; 3/0 per box ; 13/6 per lb.
TRIUMPH,. HIGH-GRADE TURKISH, band-made,
cork tipped, in boxes of 25, 2/- per box ; 7/6 per
100.
DIMITRINO ANP CO/S CIGARETTES.
EGYPTIAN, LUXON, tin ol 25, 2/3; 8/3, 100.
EGYPTIAN, NO. 9, tin of 100, 7/-.
EGYPTIAN, SHEPHERD’S HOTEL, large size, gold
tip, tin of 100, 14/-.
CARRERAS’ CELEBRATED CIGARETTES.
BLACK CAT VIRGINIA and CLARENCE VIR-
GINIA, pkt. of 10, -/<> ; 100 for 4/6.
MARCIAN TURKISH MIXTURE, pkt. of 10, -/6 ; 100
for 4/6.
CRAVEN MIXTURE, Mild, pkt. of 10, -/9 ; 100 for
JETTY VIRGINIA, tins of 50, 2/3 ; 100 for 4/6.
TEOFANI’S CIGARETTES.
EGYPTIAN, in airtight tins of 50, 4/3 per tin ; S/S
per 100.
YENIDJEH, in airtight tins of 50, 4/6 per tin ; 8/9
per 100.
Anthony Horderns f,r Pipes, Tobacco $ Cigars
TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE.
London Made,
Silver Mounted.
Hand Cut
Vulcanite Stems
BY
POST,
28
.48
THE 4/8 TRIUMPH BRIAR is the finest Pipe made, and guaranteed to be o! the finest materials. It is
London made, Sterling Silver-mounted, with Hand-Out Vulcanite Push Mouthpiece, and will not crack
or burn. Shapes as illustrated. Shapes No. 26 and 28 can also be had with Silver Push at 6/6 each.
THE A. H. & S. BRIAR PIPE.
Selected Briar, Silver
Band. 9IQ PoBt Free
Push Stems, Any Shape,
2| J Post Free.
7 9
Send for
Tobacco List,
Post Free.
THE A. H. & S. BRIAR at 2/6 (Posted 2/8) is the equal of Pipes
often sold at four times the price. It is First Quality Briar,
Vulcanite Mouthpiece, Sterling' Silver Band, Push Stem, shapes
as illustrated.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade »« BOOKS!
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
also Supplementary Cata-
logue Of FREE-ACTING
Editions.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mosk Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
ok Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
m r ~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
rcr
7 j
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Flve Card
Trlok. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tiie Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. wif.h Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘FKUITSALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels Skin and Kirino™
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION .—Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery —IMITATION ’
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS London
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
S. SMITH St SON’S
s' 30 35
25
S.SMfTM &. SON VOSa
S. STRAND 45
mm
TENT
|wD eo 4i
r?
Perfect
SPEED
INDICATORS
are fitted to
Over 20,000 Cars
and have covered
200,000,000 Miles.
From 5 Guineas.
IN USE ALL OVER THE WORLD ,
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF
SPEED INDICATORS, MOTOR WATCHES, MILOMETERS
PETROL-METERS and MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue. Special Terms to Shippers.
9 Strand, London.
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDs]
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
ESIA
Australian
Established iSi.4.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
F . , rw. City or Suburban Properties, or on
nrV'Tw,! ana C J? - (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands or on the Security
Debenture «, Inscribed Stock or Treasury of any of the Aus-
iranan States or New Zealand iW AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of renavin o "
LOperc . ent * of the loan durin ST any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Pc 6 •tv?'vi” : ee *' s> M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the lion. T. Walker, Lteputv-Chairman : Belijamin
Adrt,,’,k- q ' ' H °>?'^ anies Burns - ML - G - : The Hon. R. j. Blaci;. M.E.C.: The II m. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C,;
HEAD POT STREET, SYDNEY.' ****** a " d ACtuary Richa,d Teece. E.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
PsiticuJars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy harms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
Georp'e Streets. Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 110 Pitt Street.—Local Director: ARCHIBALD MESTCN (since Dec. Ist).
'JT-
m
35
sworn
DRINK WISELY.
The safe and healthy summer drink is
lime juice, and the best obtainable is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
Physicians and Food Specialists declare “Montserrat” to
be incomparably superior to alcoholic drinks—it has no toxic effect
on the nerves, does not vitiate the blood, nor upset the stomach.
Plain or with soda it makes a delicious drink. Made in two kinds —
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice. Sweetened, i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
Six Months ? Melb. Hospital
MR. A. MORRIS, of the Theatre Royal Billiard
Saloon, Bourke Street, Melbourne, writes that
Clements Tonic saved and cured him after he was
declared incurable. He is now in great health.
This is a letter of unusual interest, and anyone suffering from Lassitude, Debility,
Weak Nerves, Loss of Sleep, or Indigestion should read it, because it tells them plainly
that this great medicine is best for the nerves and blood, it corrects the functional
organs of the body, it turns out disease, it keeps the system free from illness, it
imparts strength, creates health, and makes men and women happy. Take this letter
home with you and show it to your friends.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
Theatre Royal Billiard Saloon,
Bourke Street, Melbourne,
22/11 10.
“ lb was subsequent to my great illness in a Victorian bosnital that
I first took Clements Tonic. As my friends and a section of the
public know, I was very ill for six months. After taking four bottles
of your nerve remedy I improved, and found that it was a splendid
aid to Nature, as my nerves soon regained their usual strength, my
heart’s action became regular and strong, and my appetite increased
wonderfully. At present I enjoy splendid health. lam seldom ill,
and I declare it is due to the consistent use of your splendid Tonic
medicine. lam never without it in the house. Neither my wife nor
I can afford to be, as we both use and swear by it as the best of
medicines.”
(Signed) ALBERT MORRIS.
No home,’ farm, squatter’s station, factory, or- traveller’s -kit should be without
Clements Tonic. It is a necessary medicine for mankind, for correcting the stomach,
regulating the bowels, invigorating the nerves, clearing the brain, and purifying the
blood. For over 25 years it has been declared by experts to be the standard medical
tonic of Australia, and the thousands of testimonials received prove its great efficacy.
All chemists and stores sell it in Australia. It is health in a new guise. Send for it.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
now in London
writes under
> date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Ilair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited i 3 55 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
Mger’s
flair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass.. !' °
I V*"
TEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in ful. refunded with ut qui Btion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year*, despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODE. S
£3 uW to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim i rakes, variable gears
andallJates improvements
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee Bate delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dibtrict.
Large profits easily made.
v ’rlte at once, using sufficient postage” for free art catalogues
and nur « necial ojfer on sample machine. r
MEAD CYCLE COa, Dept. 280 Liverpool-
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent,
757 Clarenc •» Street, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
Always
Reliable !
As is the case with
all ‘ELEY’ Goods,
the accuracy of the
EJey -44 Winchester
Central Fire Car-
tridge is such as
should commend it
to the attention of
< critical sportsmen.
* Eley Smokeless • pop-
ular low-priced cartridge.
‘Eley 22 Rim Fire Car -
tridge’ - black and smoke-
less powder.
All Eley Cartridges
are made in London
Of Gumnakers
and Dealers
beeiho
name
*Eley
on all
car-
tridges
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
H.Hillier,
161 Ceorge St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer , Importer. 1
Sporting Sulkies, £9 lOs. Abbott Busies solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Busies, from £ll 10s
Governess Carts, Phaatons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness
£5 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £1 10s.
nr
DID YOU EVER STOP TO THINK—
Have you ever considered what trouble may arise from a
neglected Cough or Cold ? Beware of the “Hacking Cough ”
the “Slight Cold,” the “Trivial Hoarseness”-tliese are Natures
warnings that something is amiss with vour respiratory system
You require a soothing and healing remedy.
Bonnington’S Irish Moss
is an old friend and a tried medicine for Colds.
; n T here is no preparation which will eradicate a troublesome Cough so
a .“ d effectlvel y- . Insist upon having the genuine article— you will
get this if you say distinctly
I WANT “BONNINGTON’S”
IN USE 45 YEA^S.
EVERY BOTTLE
CONTAINS A CURE I
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR JACK” llrand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A : JLJICKFORD^-SONS^D :I Fm SU Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
VARICOSE
VEINS
CURED
For centuries, man—and woman also, unfor-
tunately—have been sorely afflicted with
Varicose Veins in the legs, and until the last
few years the only means of affording even
temporary, if painful, relief has been the
surgeon’s knife.
Now all is changed, the old methods give
way to the new, and the Vecsey Method
of Treatment, by external application
only, painlessly and rapidly cures even the
worst cases. The success of this method
has startled the medical world and is being
applauded on every side.
SEND 2d. STAMP to pay postage on our
Free Book, which carefully explains in full detail
all features of this wonderful remedy.
Sent to an.v address on receipt of 2d. Stamp.
The Vecsey Varixarium,
104 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
-605
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For all ages, from the nursery
\ upwards, H o r I i c k’s
\Malted Milk is an
\ ideal food-beverage,
\ easily digested, nour-
\ishing,invigorating.
\ It is indispens-
\ able to invalids
\ and the aged,
\ and prov-
\ ides a full
\ diet in
\ sick-
\ness
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
Horlick’s.
Malted Milk is'
a delicious
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores
Ac., &c. Samples: 82T, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.’
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co. Slough, Erjg.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
CARBIDE.
For First=class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchant* distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED. 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
•V
MM
£
$
w
&
WOOD-MILNE
SHOESHINE
is the latest and best thing in
boot polishes. It makes boots
waterproof; keeps leather soft and
pliable ; prevents cracking, and
gives a brighter and more lasting
shine than any other polish.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
D. U W. MURRAY,
LIMITED,
I ADELAIDE, S.AUS.
RUPTURE
Do vott suffer from tin's romp’aint ? No
doubt you wish to becured without operation.
Have you grown tired ot wearing useless
trusses p Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of" the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
ste-1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free <r
WINSLOW CO.,
2Ct Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Free for the Asking, 1
$
uw
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd. 304
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
%
* v
«U/*G
ey es
I MORRIS'S 1
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
JINTMEHi
1 CURES 188
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Nomad.
Do the ag£d always carry wrinkles on their
brows to tell
Whether they ve abused their chances or have
used them passing well ?
Once an ancient person stayed me in the busy
market place,
With no answer to the riddle of his years upon
his face. '
Mid a scene of rush and scurry I was thinking
absently
Of the folly of the worship of the fetich Industry.
“ How.” thought I, “can weary mortals, doomed
so soon at best to fade,
While there vet remains a graven image worship
Gods of Trade?
Lrother here pits ’gainst his brother energies that
should be bent
io his helping thus the precious powers of man-
hood are mis-spent ! ’
Cogitating thus, I loitered for a moment where a
man,
Pei died upon a box, was selling whisker lotion in
a can.
All around him in a circle virgins young and
ipatrons old
Listened, mouths a-gape with wonder, to the fairy
tales he told.
Here it was the Ancient found ine, listening in a
sceptic mood,
To the merchant's frenzied praises of his patent
whisker food.
* Friend, * greet you !”—thus the Ancient spoke
me on the market place—
“ And my greeting is a tribute to vodr manly
charm and grace.
Over this archaic planet, through fat years and
years of drought,
For two thousand weary winters I have nosed my
way about,
Looking for a face like yours, sir— one in which
the jewel Truth
Sits enthroned, a queenly consort, meet to mate
with radiant Youth !
Sir, I’ve nursed a horrid secret; for two thousand
weary years
I have nourished it in silence-watered it with
tatter tears;
But that secret—mine no longer—l shall now
divulge to you.
In a word sir you may have it—l’m the bloom-
ing Wandering Jew !
Straight, I am, sir. That’s Mr secret!” and his
voice broke in a sob
As he queried in a whisper, “ Can I touch you for
a bob ? ’ J
Sternly then [ thrust him from me; he nor sighed
uor marie grimi-ice,
But pushed on about his business round the
strident market place.
Do the agkl carry wrinkles on their brows that
surely tell
Whether they’ve abused their chances or hnVe
them passing well ?
MAOIUT, VXD.
SING. S. CLARK.
Song of the Sated.
I in sick and tired of knaves that lie,
Of cowards that tremble, fools that pray.
Of haunting prudes, and prigs that pry
And mar the gladness of my day ;
Of gods that neither save nor slay—
; I ve 3osfc life’s throb and youth’s glad glow,
I m weary and haggard and bent and grey—
Eros ! I’m ready and want to go.
I’m tired of wondering Whither and Why—
Perhaps my feet were meant to stray—
I’m tired of Phryne, leering, sly.
Tired of pleasures that do not pay,
1 ired of joys that bring dismay—
My blood grows thin, my pulses slow,
Ah me, it’s little I want to stay—
Eros ! I’m ready and want to go.
The purple moments flutter by—
Moments traded to gods of clay—
Now I can merely sneer and sigh,
Half-scared of what the preachers say—
Who knows but Proserpina may
Have gifts of calmness to bestow ?
Hmg down the curtain, end the play—
Eros ! I’m ready and want to go.
Envoy.
Pinchbeck ! stucco and overlay.
Snuffle, hypocrisy, cant and show,
linsel and squalor and vain display—
Eros ! I’m ready and want to go.
MAOIiILAND.
C. G. T.
Kicks and Myself.
A hymn to be sung at gatherings of the
unemployed to the tune of ‘'Grey's Elegy."
Kicks and myself have been acquainted lone,
But of few ha’pence is my soul possessed,
And I am not contented, hence my song ;
I want ten thousand quid to be at rest.
I cannot see why any well-fed bloke
Should talk to me of morals and such rot,
While he has got a dinner and a smoke.
And I am all an-hungered and have not.
The sun shines equally on him and me.
But it has little power to meet my wants,
I dwell in darkness lest rude eves should see
The agonising frailty of my pants.
It was not ever thus, for I have seen
The glory of the daisies washed in dew ;
J list now I greatly should prefer the sheen
I hat shimmers on a plate of Irish stew.
I, too, have seen the mystic shadows riven,
And dreamt of things o’erarching time and
sense ;
Just now I’d sell my highest hopes of Heaven,
Cash down, for just exactly eighteenpenee.
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.


Combination Couch and Bed
rwuw-ii j ■—■■■ .»■ . n-y ■ ,"i ■ ..f iinj' .imr.ju. i i ... TTWITTMIf - _ ■■ ■ ■ "■—
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
MLiUjtmiDU
mm
mmm
CLOSED AS COUCH.
s?f"
«<W
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY*
GREEN COUPONS GIVEN AS A CASH DISCOUNT.
EDUCATION by MAIL
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some of the following subjects.
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “ S.”
Shorthand, Typewriting, Bookkeeping, Accountancy, English,
Penmanship, Arithmetic, Correspondence, Latin, French, Greek,
Algebra, Geometry, Trigonometry, Elementary Science, History,
Geography, Surveying, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Draftsmanship, Freehand Drawing, Pen and Ink
Drawing, Illustrating, Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government (Shire Clerks or Auditors),
Public Service, Sanitary Inspectors’, or any other examination.
Stott 8 Hoare’s Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Covt. Savings Bank).
Standard Cigarettes
i~, . i ._j .11 - 1 J.
HAND MADE BY ADSTRALIAH GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. Gd. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve (id
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
THE JUMP RABBIT TRAP.
Perfection
at last.
THAT’S
IT.
Easy Money for Trappers.
£BO IN CASH PRIZES £BO
I will donate £2O in Cash Prizes each month to the trappers
who catch the greatest number of rabbits with Jump Rabbit
Traps during the months of May, June, July and August, to
be divided as follows £lO first prize, £5 second, £3 third,
and £2 fourth. Write for conditions and entry forms.
Trappers, you can double your “earnings”
by using only the JUMP TRAP.
WHY? YOU ASK. WELL, the JUMP TRAP is made of steel, only half the weight of ordinary traps.
YOU get a stronger trap at half the weight, and can carry double the number of traps.
A trapper can only set as many traps as he can carry.
WHY should you not catch double the quantity of rabbits.
THE jaws and pan of the JUMP are as large as the largest traps, yet the earth scrape necessary to set is
only half the size required for ordinary traps. .
PAN arid jaws.of a JUMP are full size of scrape ; if a rabbit touches your scrape he is in the trap AND
10 iuuw. . .
WITH the old-fashioned trap half the scrape necessary to cover the long spring. The rabbit is just as
likely to prospect on the spring end of the scrape as the jaw end. If he touches the spring end he will
take fright, and IS NOT YOURS.
WHY make a pack horse of yourself by carrying a lot of unnecessary iron around on your back l
FOR SALE by all Storekeepers. If your Storekeeper cannot supply you with the JUMP TRAP, write.
ANDREW ROBERTSON, Sturt Street, South Melbourne, or Box 373, G.P.0., Melb.
Send 1/6 to cover postage, and I will mail you a free sample Trap.
If You are a
Lover of
Dainty Silver-
ware, these
Qualities will
Appeal to You.
m
\ ,
n
n
■a
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED.
SttEJREASUBE House
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
If You are a
Keen Judge
of Values,
these Prices
will
Appeal to You.
R
EMEMBER, when selecting Jewellery and Silverware, that quality (whether good or poor) remains long after the price is forgotten ; therefore, be
wise, and select your Jewellery and Silverware from the Treasure House where purchases may be made with the assurance that you are obtain*
ing goods of reliable quality from the world’s best manufacturers at the lowest possible prices. Fully Illustrated Catalogue Free on request.
J247—Silver-plated and Plain Glass Pickle
Frame, with Forks, £//2/6.
C42oS—Silver-plated
Sugar Bowl, extra quality,
with Sifter, £t.
All Goods ordered by
Post are Carefully
Packed and sent Post
Paid to any address
in the Commonwealth
-Silver-plate on Hard White Metal
MuftiivDish, £lllO/-
C42o2—Silver-plated Sugar Scuttle
and Scoop, £l/7/6.
HS93B—Silver-plated Rose Bowl.
<iin. diameter, Tin. high, £2/7/6.
mm'r.
55j8|waw
JpSs*fc|!
MsferM>)
C42O6—S lver-plated “ Shell ” Cuke or Fruit Dish,
Best Quality, £2/7/6.
'i;
C 4205 —Silver-plated Bread Platter,
best quality, £2/2/-
■ >,s
m m
J6ss—Cut-Glass Silver-plated Butter
nish -P.r
Jl7O3 —Solid Silver Table Bell, 12/6.
GlllB/1 —Silver-plated lee Pail,
with Tongs, £l/17/6.
H
JESuE
j'titEXE
y&ztcl
JX229—Solid Silver Ink Stand, size Bin. x 4Jin.,
extra heavy, £5 HOI-
%
m
m
m
WJJ
m/m
m
w
m
m
Vv<
Jk
JS6l—Silver-plated 4-bottle Dinner
Cruet, £l/5/-
3
J 794 —Silver-plated Sauce
Boat, 9/6.
Money Back if Goods
do not open up to
your Approval.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1572.
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 1910.
Price 6d.
A TORY PRECAUTION.
“Look’ere, boy, ain’t I doin’ it fer yer own safety?”
" P'raps you are; but I'm airaid it 'un rather tend to hinder me; some'ow I might find it difficult t' once it was chalned
permanently, so I'm afraid it’ll have to go!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Mnsgrave and McLeod Streets. Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct In Tiik Bin.urns Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Biillktin pouted
regularly to you every meek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all 11 asiness Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkoii. Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim. Bullutin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with reyard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed, to the Editor,
■ but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
■•invite inattention.
It is not a pood tinny to address editorial letters to
i anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bullutin,” is the. proper
.superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
• sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
•officials. The person may not be there; the o/llcial
•a heaps is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be. refused.
'The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
Wishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will care fully read and, where practicable,
mokiwioledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
hmitious submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those ilealiny with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tic< columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Biillktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. trill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Biillktin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it. is not. responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Biillktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for iiirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
. tainivg a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.c., any picture, which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
i for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
i such artistic contributions will be received are those
. applying to MS.
Tiik Bullutin is forwarded direct to agents on account
iof Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
.'New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
(Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at hid per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Biillktin can be obtained in London,
rafter the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
■Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
JDawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News'Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
V ancouvkr.— ThomsonStationery Co.. Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 442 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —1 sserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt!— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Saul.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong liong.
Singal’Oßk.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bullktin metal advertising plates.size 6sin. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 1910.
TAIL END OF THE CONFISCATION
BOGEY.
Election day being only a fortnight ahead, it is
natural that the usual erop of blighted fools
should be found holding forth in the Tory press
about the Confiscation That Is To Come if the
Labor party secures a majority and climbs into
jpower. And a shamefully dishonest daily press
"ives space to the ravings of the blighted fools,
sind thus encourages them to rave some more. It
lis the firm conviction of the*eminently superior
ttroglodyte, who always transpires about this
ttime, that Labor intends to- take everything
from everybody and give nothing to anybody.
He holds that everything will be dragged
sway and thrown into the middle of nowhere.
The first and strongest of his beliefs is that there
is somewhere or other in this country a Labor
movement composed of men who own nothing—
neither lands, houses, furniture, clothes, boots
nor money—and who, in their utter nakedness,
have acquired a quenchless hatred of all people
who have lands or houses or furniture or clothes
or boots or money, or any money’s worth whatso-
ever. This perfectly nude and homeless and hat-
less party is understood to be so numerous that
there is serious danger, unless Toryism exerts
itself, of it getting control of ,Parliament and
blotting out things in general—especially pro-
perty. As all the prophecies are about the
taking away of everything from everybody,
and not a word is said about the giving of
anything to anybody, it seems that the
naked Labor party which sleeps up a tree
intends to make a bonfire of civilisation. It is
a strange, mad, mental fantod ; but it is quite
seriously entertained by many silly and well-
dressed persons—women of fashion, bridge-players,
afternoon-tea-drinkers. Government House visi-
tors, commercial men, theatrical first-nighters,
females with incredible hats and such like curious
fowl.
* * * •
They run in all shapes. Last week, for instance,
one Joseph Leslie, who alleges that he is a toiler
and reckons that the Laborites have an envious
eye on the pound or two he has saved up, wrote
n despair to the Sydney Telegraph. Here is a
iample of his wail:—
Every Australian who holds a savings bank book, owns
the cottage in which he lives, or a 16-perch allotment, or
ten pounds’ worth of movable furniture, or capital, how-
ever small, is a man of property, a capitalist compared
to the man who has neither movables nor savings. I
HAVE WORKED AS A LABORER FOR THE PAST 28
YEARS, and I have saved enough to acquire a little
house and possession of a savings bank book. Ido not
consider myself a capitalist. But Ido not belong to the
propertyless class, in whose interest the Labor party has
constituted itself a party apart, a party of class, hostile
to the rest of society, like the barbarians beyond the
frontiers. The moment this party conquers the electbrate
then I and the small home-owners, of whom I am repre-
sentative, will find it standing, like Lewis Carroll’s cro-
codile, to welcome us “with gently smiling jaws.” To
dispossess me and those belonging to my class of our
savings and holdings involves a state of social war as
cruel as that which the authors of the extraordinary
manifesto profess themselves anxious to suppress. WE
SHALL DECLINE TO SUFFER OPPRESSION AND
SPOLIATION IN SILENCE.
That sort of letter—which is no more absurd than
100 other letters —represents an elderly Tory in a
dreadful state of swelled head. The system
under which he says he has been an animal of
burden for 28 years appeals to him. He fears
that it is in danger. He regards his" little
cottage and his pound or two of savings, as
such rare things that they must fill the souls pf
an imaginary horde of Labor savages with envy,,
malice and all uncharitableness. Yet it is diffi-
cult to find out who or where are the penniless Aus-
tralian hordes that can possibly want to make <var
on any shocking old person’s savings bank accoun t.
There are, for instance, 469,000 people in N.S.W.
who have savings bank accounts, and if those who
have accounts in joint stock banks and building
societies are added, the total will probably be
600,000. A large section of the community con-
sists of infants, old-age pensioners, prisoners,
lunatics, married women who leave the male head ,
of the family to manage the finances, and other-
non-banking classes ; so it is a fair inference that
about three-fourths of the male population of the
State have bank accounts. Furthermore, there are
some 60,000 or 70,000 landowners in N.S. W., and
the proportion of the population which owns land
and banking accounts is even larger in some of
the othfer States than it is in N.S.W. Yet, despite
the fact that Australia carries all this ballast
to keep it from running amok, there exist and
walk the earth incredibly ignorant Tories, who
imagine that this country is pervaded by a vast
horde—possibly constituting a majority of the
people —of penniless adventurers doubtless
painted blue and carrying clubs—who are liable at
any moment to create a Government which will
rush at all these hundreds of thousands of property-
holders and tear everything from them. This
horde is the Labor party of the Conservative’s
imagination. There have probably never been
more than two or three Labor members or
Labor candidates who didn’t own a bank
account or a cottage, or possibly both.
Also, they have clothes, furniture and
libraries, sometimes farms, often businesses of
one kind or another. They are mostly serious-
minded, frugal, careful, sober men, who don’t
drink with wild squatters at expensive clubs ; and
one reason why they don’t propose to confiscate
savings in general is that they don’t want to
throw away the provision they have made for their
own old age. No one seriously expects, however,
that the really solid Tory will know these things.
For not knowing things the perfect and complete
specimen who votes the Bruce Smith ticket ranks
with the aboriginal, or varies between him and
the wombat.
* • • • -
The spectre of Confiscation of the Land goes
hand-in-hand with the spectre of the Confiscation
of the Bank Account and the Furniture-stealing
Ghost. It is claimed by the aggregate Tory that
the proposed progressive land-tax on big estates
is only the beginning, and that there will presently
follow taxation on small estates, and then a general
stealing of all estates. All the land is to be taken
from everybody and not given to anybody. It is
a curiously insane and upside-down supposition ;
for as a matter of fact it is the Tory person
who wants to steer straight for confiscation,
and the Labor man who seeks to avert
the trouble. It is fairly safe to assume
that every landowner who is sober and in
his right senses will vote against forfeiture of
land. The Labor party proposes to so multiply
landholders, by breaking up the big estates
(not forfeiting them, but encouraging their
sale in small lots), that the vote of the
multitudinous small holder will make confisca-
tion impossible. The Tories, being arrogant
fools and blind, desire to keep the land in the
hands of a few men whose handful of votes against
confiscation will amount to hardly anything.
Their ideal State is one in which an enormously
rich man lives in terror in an iron fortress while
10,000 paupers throw dynamite at the premises
from outside. They always aim at having
wealth concentrated in the hands of such a very
Few that the Few aren’t numerousenough todefend
either it or themselves when the Many resolve to
hang them and have a better arrangement. The
Democratic policy, on the other hand, is to have
wealth and comfort so diffused that the number
of contented people must always vastly outnum-
ber the discontented. It is, above all things,
the policy of law and order. It is the
thing which stands between “Wingen” Abbott
and summary execution, and which prevents
.Abbey Dangar being suspended from a lamp-
post. The Tory person isn’t at all grateful to tlie
Democratic party for the services it renders in
saving him from summary execution, but that is
characteristic of him and his class. For, as already
mentioned, he ranks with the aboriginal for
ignorance ; and his arrogance is the arrogance of
the principal ape in the tree-top.
THE MADMEN AT ROCKHAMPTON AND
ELSEWHERE.
Dear Bulletin,—The point which most interested
me in your article under the above heading was a
certain extract from a Conservative and parish,
minded daily paper in which that publication
professed to rope in Lord Kitchener as a witness
on behalf of the ridiculous eastern deviation of the
transcontinental railway. This is the extract to
which I allude :
There are two considerations. The military value of
the line is one, and the other is the effect upon the in-
ternal settlement and development of Australia. Lord
Kitchener., of course, considers the military aspect, and
EVIDENTLY sees that, if the Northern Territory had to
be defended, ALL THE TROOPS AND MUNITIONS FOR
THAT PURPOSE WOULD HAVE TO BE TRAINED TO
SOUTH AUSTRALIA before they could be sent north,
if the present scheme were carried out. On the other
hand, if, as is most likely, North-Eastern Queensland
needed reinforcement, they would have to make their
way laboriously over the existing- lines. The obviously
preferable method would be to link all the railways to the
coast with a main line opening up the rich hinterlands of
the East.
Now Lord Kitchener said not one single word
to suggest that he “evidently” saw any such
dashed insane thing as the paper hints at. And
Lord Kitchener couldn’t see anything of the
kind, because he is not a fool. No man climbs to
his eminence by being a fool—still less by being a
profound fool.
* * * *
The Northern Territory is the most defenceless
part of Australia, and the one most exposed to
attack from Asia. In addition to this it is the
part which can lie most feasibly claimed by any
strong Asiatic Power on the ground of “insuf-
ficient occupation.’’ Therefore it is recognised as
the weakest point in Australia’s line of defence, the
next weakest point being the northern section of
, Westralia. Supposing the Territory and the
northern section of Westralia are attacked, where
will they naturally expect a force to come from
for their assistance ? Plainly from Adelaide and
Melbourne and the country thereabouts; also, in
'a less degree, from Tasmania and Perth. The
first hope of assistance for Port Darwin is from
Adelaide. That city is 125 miles nearer than
• Brisbane and 300 miles nearer than Sydney. If
the Crow-eater forces are concentrated for the re-
lief of the North at the fine harbor of Port Aug-
usta, they will be even nearer to the scene of
action than any army which can be gathered at
Maryborough, Rockhampton or Townsville. That
is to say, they will be nearer by land, and the
whole idea of the transcontinental railway,
viewed from a defence point of view, is that Aus-
tralia will probably have to defend itself by land
against a marine enemy who is too strong, at
least in the first stages of the campaign, to be met
and defeated at sea. Given railway facilities,
Adelaide and its environs, when we get a system
of universal military training, can send more
. troops to hold the Northern Territory than all
Queensland north of Brisbane is capable of doing.
That is taking into account the mere resources of
the two places in men. But when the geographi-
cal conditions are also considered, 8. A. can send
to the aid of the North more men than all Queens-
land—possibly more than all Queensland and
N.S.W. put together,
* » * •
Let us look at the situation as the map shows it.
The day that hostile ships appear off Port Darwin
- and the attempt to annex our Northern Territory
begins, it will oe conspicuous—not to say glaring
—that the enemy is in possession of Torres Strait.
A portion of his squadron is liable to appear at
Townsville within two days, and he may rouse
up Rockhampton, Maryborough and Brisbane
within a week. As a natural consequence,
these places can’t strip themselves of
defenders to save the Territory, for their own
danger will be too close. Besides, the petty towns
north of Brisbane can raise no force large enough
to do much service in the Territory. Even if
there was built the shortest possible line connect-
ing Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville with
Port Darwin it would amount to nothing from a
defence point of view. The three Queensland
towns can no more spare soldiers to defend the
Territory at such a time than the Territory can
spare soldiers to defend them. Rapid communi-
cation between Queensland and Port Darwin is,
in a military sense, as things are now, a mere
frill or luxury. It is of no more value than
rapid communication between the land ot Moab
and the hen farm at Parramatta. In the day of
stress, what the Queensland coastal towns will
want is the shortest possible land communication
with Sydney. That city, having great resources
and being further from any possible attack by an
Asiatic enemy, can send out a respectable force to
Queensland’s assistance, and the force won’t be so
far away that it can’t be recalled in reasonable
time if Sydney itself is in danger. Meanwhile the
one big centre that can afford to risk every armed
man it possesses for the protection of Port
Darwin is Adelaide, and the two other
centres that can afford to take considerable
chances in the same cause are Melbourne
and Perth. Adelaide, as the crow scoots,
is the most adjacent place of any size to
Port Darwin by land, which will be the way
the Australian forces will travel, and the farthest
from it by water, which is the way the enemy
will come. It can send its entire resources to
1 alp in the defence of Northern Australia, and
even if everything goes wrong it won’t need to
recall them for its own protection until it hears
that the Jap or Chinese fleet is off Sydney. Any
troops sent from Melbourne will probably, if
things go utterly wrong, have to be recalled
earlier. Any forces sent to the end of the
Far North from Sydney, Brisbane, and the
Queensland coastal towns further up the map will
probably have to be recalled before they even
reach their destination and fire the first shot.
The proposal to connect Adelaide, Port Augusta
and Oodnadatta with Port Darwin by the
straightest possible line, and to join that line by
branches with Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton
and Townsville, rests on the simplest military
principles. The straight line will put Perth,
Adelaide, Melbourne and Tasmania in the quickest
possible communication with the ill-defended
North, and they are the places which want to have
the quickest possible communication, for they will
probably have to do the defending. They are
so far away from any possible surprise by any fleet
which may attack the northern ports that they
can denude themselves of soldiers in a way which
Sydney and Brisbane and Townsville can’t. That
was what Kitchener, as an experienced soldier,
realised, and that was why he didn’t say or think
the absurd things which the Sydney Tory paper
ascribed to him. The straight line, with branches
to the east, will make the distance between the
Queensland towns and Port Darwin a little greater
than by the eastern deviation ; but as the Queens-
land towns have no superfluous forces to send to
Port Darwin and Port Darwin has none to send
to them that doesn’t signify. The essential point
is to have the shortest possible railroad between
the Territory and the places which can afford it
some assistance. The proposed eastern deviation,
as a matter of obvious fact, has no relation to
defence at all. It represents the plain brute
selfishness of two States which have conceived the
idea of getting their own purely State railways
built for them at the cost of all Australia. —Yours,
etc., Henry Horsecollar.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bribery by Tea and Sandwiches.
Under the heading “Humanising Politics”
Sydney Telegraph wrote artlessly to this effect
last week :
In North Sydney, East Sydney, Parramatta and else-
where during the next few weeks big “ At Homes ” are
the order of the day among the women leaguers.
“We find,” says Mrs. Mackinnon, “that women, as a
rule, prefer something in the nature of an ‘At Home.*
where they can have a little music and refreshment.
Do many attend these ‘ At Homes * ? ” Mrs. Mackixnon
was asked. “Hundreds,” came the reply. “At St.
John’s, Darlinghurst, the other day we had about 700.”
Tea and sandwiches should be good solvents of
speech. Do you find they protract the meetings at all ? ”
Not in the least, for, while refreshments are being
served our secretaries and assistants are going round
taking names and enlisting workers. Thus we secured
every name of the 700 who were present at the Darling-
hurst ‘At Home.’”
“ So the programme at your ‘At Homes ’ consists of a
little music, bright, short, ten-minute speeches, and re-
freshments? ”
“ \ es, that and ‘ God Save the King ’ to finish up with.”
“Would that men would take their politics so
sensibly ! ” the Tki.f.graph winds up in a sudden
burst of passion. Weil, on that head a possible
explanation is that, unlike Mrs. Mackinnon and
the Sydney Telegraph, men are acquainted
with the law of tlm land and cherish a certain re-
spect for the same Under the Federal Electoral
Act it is plain bribery with heavy penalties
attached to supply, after the nominations
have been declared" “ meat, drink or enter-
tainment, with a view to influencing the vote of
an elector.” The practice of bribing women to
vote “Liberal” by means of free tea, cakes, sand-
wiches and such-like comestibles originated in
Victoria in the time of Janet, Mrs. Clarke. It
has been rife there for years. It is recorded
that when Dr. Maloney first stood for Mel-
bourne against Malcolm McEacharn a woman,
on emerging from the polling hooth, announced
that she had voted Labor, and asked “the
way to the tea-tables.” She was told that
Labor’ possessed none, whereat she was un-
feignedly staggered. “ I wasn’t treated so
when I voted for Mrs. Clarke’s candidate,” she
complained, and passed on in a state of puzzled
exasperation, giving the world to understand that
she had voted Labor for the ultimate time. The
illegal habit of filling up partialiy-empty females
with free food, and at the same time using the
circumstance that they are the recipients
of provender to bull-doze them into joining
“Liberal Leagues” has spread to N.S. W., and in
comprehensive form. What it cost to stay the
appetites and quench the thirsts of the 700
East Sydney food-and-drink cadgers alluded
to by Mrs. Mackinnon, it would take a
professional caterer to estimate. But the sum
must have been considerable. And, seem-
ingly, plenty more “Liberal” gold is to be
squandered in the same way between now and
April 13. Why the authorities don’t take a hand
in the suppression of this sort of tiling is explicable
only on the assumption that they are in sympa-
thy with the law-breakers. The illegality of such
proceedings isn’t to be measured by the class of
goods used for bribing purposes. The female
enthusiast on the “ Liberal ” side has no more right
to try to influence the votes of 700 women-cadgers
with tea and its accompaniments than to corrupt
the political virtue of 700 bar-loafers with beer.
As a fact, the provision of the Electoral Act
above-quoted was inserted mainly to protect the
cadging female voter against herself, and the
Parliament of the country against her malign
influence. There is a mean-spirited type of
woman who will cheerfully walk miles if she has
reason to think there is something for nothing
awaiting her at the end of the journey. She is
capable of being seduced into any political
camp for the price of a few soft drinks
and a little social attention. She is the
prototype of the frank mercenary of the
days when “open voting” obtained—the only
essential difference being that her price is less.
Many of the constituents of the late Baron
Grant, of Kidderminster (England), got up to £3O
a head for their suffrages; the supporters of Lees, of
East Sydney, accept so much tea, bread, meat,
cake, etc., by way of payment for theirs, and are
grateful. The Labor party, which can’t afford
to buy the assistance of the multitude
in this fashion (and, it is to be hoped,
would refrain from doing so if it could)
has at least the satisfaction of knowing that, if the
Fusion candidate-is elected, it can, if it cares to
press the case, almost certainly have him dis-
qualified by reason' of all this illegal food and
drink supplied in his interests. As a matter of
fact quite a lot of Fusion candidates are utterly
damned already in this matter if their opponents
care to invoke the law. And if the price of this
food isn’t inclui-J in the bill when the Fusion
candidate declares the amount of his election ex-
penses, it can ask very unpleasant questions. As
for the women who are openly violating the law
in the Fused interest, their legal position is about
as bad as it can be, and they are liable to
heavy punishment. Hitherto they have traded
on the forbearance of their opponents, but the
language which these Fusion ladies throw at their
opponents is calculated to wear that forbearance
pretty thin.
4
The Federal City.
At the back of this sham tariff agitation is the un-
quenchable anxiety to destroy the settlement made over
the capital in fixing the site in the Yass-Canberra terri-
tory. The Labor candidates are being dragged in to
assist the movement. ... All that’s expected in return is
that when the capital question comes up again in Parlia-
ment, they will vote to cancel the Yass-Canberra site. ...
The men who are principally receiving support are the
men who can be relied upon to vote against Yass-Can-
berra. ... The Victorian Labor men and others have
never made any disguise of their objection to Yass-
Canberra. .. If the Government can be defeated, what-
ever party can be brought in will be expected to be
subservient to the Melbourne combination, which has all
along had a mischievous effect on the Federation, and to
afford a guarantee that the Federal capital at Yass-
Canberra shall be silently dropped.— Sydney Telegraph.
Mr. J. C. Watson, at Hurstville, denied that the
L ibor party intended to upset the Federal capital de-
cision.—Same paper.
It is not very easy to decide bow J. C. Watson,
a retired politician who is wholly out of the game,
is entitled to speak for the Parliamentary Labor
party in this matter ; but presumably he has some
authority. His statement, in any case, would
have been better left unsaid. It only serves to
recall a disgraceful episode which has served to
make the names of certain ’ weak or dis-
reputable Laborites stink in the nostrils of
all good Democrats. When the unfortunate
Federal capital controversy began there was
a reactionary and Conservative party which
sought after these six things in particular (1) It
wanted a mean, poor, dry little capital which, by
its unimportance as compared with the chief
State cities, would mark the utter insignificance
of the Australian Government as compared with
the State authorities. (2) It wanted a capital
with no industrial possibilities because it didn t
believe in having any big industries under Federal
control. (3) It wanted a small Federal territory
so that the new land values created by the ex-
penditure of the money of all Australia would lie
largely outside the Federal area and be mopped
up by the N.S.W. private landlord. (4) It
wanted a capital that would be side-tracked on a
mere branch railway, and which would have no
efficient port of its own, so that all its trade must
come to the already overgrown city of Sydney,
and make profits for the Tory merchants thereof.
(5) It wanted a capital so close to Sydney that it
would be under the malign influence of Gregory


To the MEN and WOMEN
of OUR COUNTRY.
On April 13 Rise Early and go to
the Poll Unanimously and—
(l) Vote AGAINST the Fused
Candidates.
Sometimes Judas has the grace to Hang himself.
In case he shouldn’t do It, you can Make Sure by
Hanging Judas yourselves. Then you will know
for certain that he Is Dead.
(2) Vote AGAINST the Twenty-
five Bob Fraud.
On the Blue Ballot Paper Vote like this: —
YES □
IMO |X|
(3) Vote FOR the transfer of
the State Debts to the
Commonwealth.
In other words, seize the Buff Ballot Paper with
both hands and Vote In this fashion :
Wade (the man who devised the law by which
Bowling was put in gaol), and under the equally
baleful influence of the Tory Herald and Tele-
graph. (6) Itdesired that the capital should not be
so located that it might lead to the settlement of
an empty region where settlement was badly
needed, but be placed as close as possible to the
most congested locality in Australia, in order to
congest it further for the great benefit of the land-
lords thereof. And two men who materially
helped the Tory party to success in this purely
Tory conspiracy were J. C. Watson and W. M.
Hughes, both" at one time regarded as good
Laborites. Also, some others of the party bore
a hand. It was necessary to swallow a good
deal of Democratic principle in order to perpetrate
this dirty job. The people were not told, at the
election of 1900, of any proposed change in the
capital site, so they had no chance to express
an opinion on the matter—not even such a
very feeble and indefinite opinion as can
be expressed amid the confusion of a
general election. They have no real chance
to express an opinion now, for so many questions
are mixed up that, even if they elected all the
candidates, or rejected all the candidates, they
couldn’t clearly state their views. But it was
once suggested that the people should have a
chance to state their views. In November last
•Tabkz Coon, M.H.R., proposed that a referen-
dum should be taken on the question of the capi-
tal site, and among those who voted that the com-
mon blastiferous herd had no right to be consulted
we find these names :
W. M. Hughes. D. Watkins.
Andrew Fisher. W. Webster.
Thomas Brown. D. R. Hall.
E. S. Carr. R. W. Foster.
J. 11. Oatts. J. Thomas.
Hugh Maiion.
These are some of the members who stood up
manfully alongside Bowden, Joe Cook, Forrest,
Foxton, Johnson, Kelly, Bruce Smith, Knox,
Wilks and George Reid in denying the right of
the people to any effective voice in the decision of
the greatest question which the Australian Parlia-
ment had considered since its foundation. For on
the selection of the best or the worst site
depends the question whether that capital
will he the greatest centre of art, literature,
progress and democratic principle in the Southern
Hemisphere, or whether it will be a mere gossipy,
overgrown village—a sleepy place of old women
and cats and afternoon tea-drinkings; a quiet little
town where legislators fall asleep in a drowsy
atmosphere, and hens doze in the main street;
a suburb hitched on to the tired little
town of Queanbeyan, a place overshadowed
even by dull old cobble-stoned Hobart. On
the selection of the capital the whole future
destiny of Australia may hinge. If it is a place
where it is possible to raise a prosperous city of
1,000,000 or 2,000,000 souls, there will be a vast
population at the centre of Federal affairs, and
attached by their mere situation to the Federal
ideal, and because of that fact Australia will be a
strongly united land with a powerful Federal
sentiment at its heart. If the capital is a
mere scraggy haunt of red tape and officialdom,
and a place with a few thousand inhabitants,
then there will he no strong central influence to
hind the country together, and the multitude of
big State capitals will be so many disintegrating
forces dragging Australia asunder and making it
a mere loose association of States. Yet, despite
the interests involved, the matter was regarded as
of such small account as compared with the tem-
porary approval of Wade and the perfunctory
applause of the Sydney Telegraph, that quite a
number of Laborites couldn’t see why the vulgar
multitude should be consulted. And of these the
most blatant and supercilious was W. M. Hughes.
Twenty-five Shillings and 47 Freetrade
Candidates.
The country lias waited quite a while to hear
something from Deakin and Cook in explanation
of the above-mentioned anomaly, and it has
heard nothing as yet. One man has been affable
and the other has been angry, but neither has
been explanatory. Yet the position, which may
he set forth in a very few words, certainly calls
for explanation. The Fused Government asks
the community to he so unspeakably foolish as to
vote for an amendment of the Constitution by
which the State Treasurers are to receive,
out of the tariff revenue, 255. per inhabi-
tant annually for ever. To do that, and
vet have enough left to pay for defence,
old-age pensions, and other necessary expenditure,
the tariff revenue must keep up to a very high
figure—much more than the present figure, though
that is a world’s record. Of course, when things
get down to the normal, and the loans diminish
and the land sales are about exhausted, any such
revenue will he impossible ; even in rich, high-
tariff countries like Germany and the United
States about 15s. per head per annum is all that
the tariff yields, and no country can give away
255. out of 15s. and pay for the government of a
whole continent out of the balance. Still, if High
Protection is the policy of Australia, it may he a
while.before the tariff yield gets down to normal,
and the 255. subsidy may be practicable for a
few years, provided defence, the cost of taking
over the Northern Territory and similar
works are paid for partly out of loans.
But the great hulk of the Fused Government’s
candidates are Freetraders or Low Tariffists. They
stand for a party which wants to knock the bottom
out of the one big source of Federal revenue.
They are also Tories of the type which is quite con-
vinced that Federal direct taxation is “contrary
to the spirit of the Constitution,” and that land
and income taxes are sources of revenue which
should be “left to.the States.” So, if the Fused
Government makes an all-round success, there
will be in the House of Representatives :
(1) A majority which is absolutely committed to pav-
ing the 255. per head subsidy to the State Treasurers, arid
which has got that agreement inserted in the Constitu-
tion.
(2) A majority which wants to cut down the tariff so
that it probably won’t yield the 255.
(3) A majority which is absolutely committed against
Federal direct taxation to fill the gap in the finances,
and reckons such a thing “ Socialistic.”
On this latter point one of his own journalistic
supporters admiringly quoted Minister Cook last
Monday :
As soon as the Labor party got the power to burst up
the big landholders, the High Court would say that it
had no right to differentiate, and that the tax must be
paid by all landowners, irrespective of the size of the
holdings. . . . But the Laborites would also be told that
the lands of the States were not theirs to tax.
That puts pretty clearly the view that the Fused
Government wants the people to accept and
thq one it intends to act upon if it
can keep in power. (1) Direct taxation
is to he left to the States. (2) The Com-
monwealth’s sole source of income is to be Customs
and Excise, for all the profits of the posts and
telegraphs must go in extensions for many years
to come. (3) The State Treasurers are to have
the first.biteatthis one source of Federal revenue,
and they are not merely to take a percentage, be
the same large or small; they demand that they
shall he preference shareholders with a cumulative
dividend which is to grow larger every year for
ever. In short, the Fused idea is that the
Commonwealth is to have about £9,000,000, or £2
per inhabitant, with which to do for a whole con-
tinent what costs Great Britain about £150,000,000
(or between £3 10s. and £4 per head) for a small
island. And the Commonwealth’s is to be a
diminishing revenue. It is what may be called a
heavenly outlook.
Sydney “Telegraph” Gives Away the
Shoddy Show.
Thus Clarence O’Hagan :
These are trying times for Foreign-trading papers.
They not only have to stomach Protection right here in
Australia, but their touching faith in foolish things is
being shattered as they watch their beloved Joss getting
ready to clear out of John Bull’s land. Tariff Reform
sits solid in. the House of Commons, some 280 votes
strong, while it is matter of common knowledge that the
great bulk of the Irish Nationalist members are Pro-
tectionists. Great blow is always being made by the
Dead Joss papers about the “ cheapness ” of living in Free-
trade England, but it seems that this cheapness has alto-
gether departed along with Britain’s agriculture. Last
Saturday the Sydney Telegraph itself bore simple but
adequate testimony to this sorrowful state of affairs. Its
London correspondent sent along a comparison of the
cost of living in Australia and in England—and here is
his conclusion :
“ Summing up, one mav estimate that board and lodg-
ing WOULD BE DEARER BY 2s. 6d. OR 3s. IN THE £
IN LONDON THAN IT IS IN SYDNEY.”
Now, considering that Sydney is one of the most expensive
cities in Australia —far more no than Hobart or Adelaide,
for instance—a difference in its favor of about 15 per
cent.—as against what George Reid has called “ that
majestic capital of the wood’s commerce ” is astonishing !
Still more astonishing is it to find such a remark in the
Telegraph, for it amounts to a complete condemnation
of the fatuous policy that paper yells for and doesn’t
want. Hitherto the great consolation extended to the
benighted Britisher—the great example held up to the
local Protectionist—by the Telegraph has been the mar-
vellous soul-and-atomach-filling CHEAPNESS OF LIVING
which existed in the Cold Country. It was this, we were
told, that made England great. And now even the
Sydnej' Telegraph says the thing is a lie, and a sham,
and a shameless fraud ; and quotes figures to show that
(moderately) Protectionist Sydney is 15 per cent, better
off as regards the cost of living than Freetrade London !
The paper seems, further, to have given up trying to con-
ceal the fact that England is sick to death cf being the
earth’s dumping-ground, for in the same issue, and from
the same reliable source, it prints this: —
“ London, February 4.—Few people will envy Mr.
Asquith his task. Perhaps no Prime Minister has been
faced with one so complex and formidable. To ward, off
extinction the Liberal leader has to be both defensive and
aggressive. He needs every penny and the last ounce of
vigilance and enthusiasm his party organisation can com-
mand to stay the tide of tariff reform."
As I said when I began this—these are trying times for
Foreign-Trading papers like Sydney Telegraph.
Yet Again in the Soup.
0. G. Wade’s chronically inaccurate habit of mind
plunged him into more trouble last week. Some
time ago J. 0. Watson mentioned that, despite
its lavish expenditure of cash and gas, the Wade
Ministry had made but 13 N.S.W. estates avail-
able for settlement since 1904, and had settled but
914 farmers on them. The Sydney TELEGRAPH
immediately “featured” an interview with
Wade under the heading “Mr. Watson cor-
rected.” Herein Wade roundly asserted that
Watson was a manufacturer of untruths, that 18
estates had been thrown open for settlement by
the N.S.W. Government, and 1093 farmers
settled on them. Watson seems to have been
good-naturedly satisfied to allow his word to stand
against Wade’s in the matter; he let the discus-
sion lapse. Not so Niel Nielsen, M.L. A., who
proceeded to hunt up the Lands Department
figures on the subject. Here are the words in
which he stated the results of his investigations
in the daily press last Friday .
I have before me now a statement from the Lands
Department, dated March 3, showing that up to that
date 17 estates had been resumed, of which three were
waiting for the hearing of appeals, which have been
lodged by the owners. Of the other 14, one (Richlands)
has not yet been opened for settlement, thus leaving 13
which have been opened for settlement since this and the
previous Government’s closer settlement policy has been
in existence (six years).
This is the exact number stated by Mr. Watson, so he
made no mistake there, if the Lands Department’s figures
go for anything.
Now, as to the number of settlers actually settled, Mr.
Wade says 1093. This is absolutely incorrect; the total
number provided for by the 13 estates so far set apart is
970. and this total includes 50 suburban blocks on Peel
River, which cannot honestly be called farms, as 19 of
these only average five acres in extent, and 37 others
only average 9£ acres in extent. It will at once be seen
that these 56 blocks cannot fairly be included as farms,
as they are merely suburbah residence areas.
Excluding these 56 suburban blocks, the total number
of farmers actually provided for by the 13 estates made
available for settlement so far is 914.
Wade’s explanation in regard to the above, as
furnished to Sydney Telegraph (25/3/TO), was as
follows:
To dot all the i’s and cross the t’s I should say the
Government has made provision for 1093 farmers.
Wade, in fact, admits that he hasn’t “settled”
1093 farmers anywhere; but he claims that he
was hot speaking incorrectly in saying that he had
settled that number of farmers, inasmuch as he
had “made provision” for settling them some
time in the future. Which is tantamount to a
storekeeper owning that he hadn’t really sold
lib. of beef, but urging that he might truth-
fully say he had sold it since he had
put it on his counter and advertised it,
and in other respects “made provision” for
selling it. As to his allegation that the Govern-
ment had resumed 18 estates for purposes of
closer settlement, Wade owns, in view of the
Lands Department figures, that his administra-
tion hasn’t exactly done that, but, he says cheer-
fully-:
It is common knowledge that some of these estates are
in the process of being dealt with at the present time,
and it is only a question of a very short time when the
final steps in the way of allotment, etc., shall have been
taken.
In short, Watson was absolutely correct in his
original comments on the local land position, and
Wade’s wild, uninformed statements to the con-
trary were unusually uncalled-for and impertinent.
What with his shaky law and his shaky facts, it
looks as though Wade would go down to posterity
as about the most unreliable, blundering and
withal dogmatic Premier that any Australian
State has known.
• ♦
By a Hairsbreadth.
The trial at Sydney last week of Dr. Carlo
Ferruccio Fiaschi "and Nurse Young, both
of Lithgow (N.S.W.), was hideously sug-
gestive of what may happen in a gory
old -State to accused persons who, though
absolutely guiltless, happen to lack the money
and the social and professional influence to estab-
lish the fact. Dr. Fiaschi was accused of causing
the death of one Julia Nightingale by means
of an illegal operation; and the - nurse
was charged with being an accessory before
and after the fact. The police-court pro-
ceedings were at Bathurst. The accused
denied the charge. Fiaschi said that he had
operated on deceased for haemorrhoids, and that
she had died of the resulting shock. The nurse
corroborated his story. On the other hand, Dr.
MaCHATTIE, a country practitioner, swore posi-
tively (1) that there had been no operation for
haemorrhoids; (2) that the uterus and all its
accessories had been cut out by a skilful hand
practised* in surgery. The only Sydney doctor
who was present declined firmly to swear to either
of these things. It would be impossible for him
to pronounce a definite opinion either way, he said,
unless he was allowed to cut a certain exhibit—
and this the Court declined to permit. Fiaschi
and Young were committed to take their trial at
Darlinghurst for murder—bail being refused.
And now social and political influences got to
work. Bail was allowed —though in the huge
sum of £lOOO. Later, the Crown Prosecutor
altered the indictment from murder to man-
slaughter. At Darlinghurst last week Dr.
Machattie repeated the damning evidence he
had given at Bathurst. But on this occasion
there were in court men like Professor Watson,
Sydney Jamieson and W. Stuart McKay,
who are at the head of the medical profession in
Australia. A second post mortem was held by.
Dr. Machattie in their presence. As a result, it
was shown (1) that an operation for haemorrhoids
had been performed. (2) That the uterus had
not been removed, but was present, though in an
abnormal position. Dr. Machattie still insisted
that there was “something '-unexplained ’’ in con-
nection with this organ. The Court allowed him
to make a microscopical examination, the effect of
which was to demonstrate the existence of a
growth on the part incompatible with the
possibility of conception having taken place.
Dr. Carlo Fiaschi was actually being tried
on a charge of having practised abortion on
a woman who was incapable of becoming
a mother. So the case for the Crown burst
with a loud report, and the accuse*!
were hurriedly released without a stain
on their characters. It is not too much
to say that Carlo Fiaschi is to-day a free man,
instead of a convict awaiting the call of the hang-
man, because he is the son of his father. Had he
been an indigent citizen with no “pull” he
would have stagnated helplessly in gaol between
the date of the Bathurst proceedings and his trial
at the Central Criminal Court, and would have
had no chance to hunt up evidence. Instead of
having ,T. C. Gannon, K.C., for the defence he
would have been assigned an inexperienced
junior. The flower of the local medical profession.
—.the only men competent to vindicate him—
would have stayed away from the scene of
his crucifixion with enthusiasm. The dis-
graceful Machattie evidence would have gone un-
questioned. An unthinkable injustice would havet
been perpetrated. This horrible business should!
serve to impress on the community the utter
worthlessness of much of the so-called “ expert
evidence ” that is brought forward to the un-
doing of accused persons in criminal proceedings,
and draw renewed attention to the clamant need!
of the institution of a Court of Criminal Appeal 1 .
Also, as a side issue, it suggests that there is room
for fairly copious explanation on the part of Dr.
Machattie, of Bathurst.
Measure for Measure.
Concerning whisky:—
The licensed liquor trade of Melbourne is. sadly per-
turbed of late by the reckless experiment of a local pub-
keeper in selling whisky at 3d. a nobbier. This “ cutting
of the price” has been practised in Sydney for 30 years,
but in Melbourne it came as a sudden infraction of the
Trade’s settled policy, and the brotherhood of Hung
wildly resented it. Although the innovator had already
turned from his evil way and reverted to the sixpenny
order of things, a conference was held last week between
the executives of the Melbourne Hotelkeepers’ Union
and the Licensed Victuallers’ Association ; and these
bodies joined hands in their stern determination to
uphold the time-honored price of whisky and nip injuri-
ous competition in the nobbier, so to speak—not so
much for themselves as in the interests of their dear
friend, the consumer. One grief-stricken grog-seller re-
marked that “ if the hotelkeepers were called upon to
sell whisky at 3d. they would have to give away far less
than at present, or they would soon be out of the trade” ;
and then, without pausing to discuss the moral of that
argument, the reconciled executives carried the follow-
ing resolution: —
“ This conference of hotelkeepers strenuously opposes
any reduction in the present price of spirits, as they con-
sider the introduction of low-priced spirits will prove
inimical to the health of the general community."
The announcement of this philanthropic resolution in
the newspapers gave the local whisky-distiller—J. M.
Joshua—a chance to explain to the public indirectly,
that the health of the community doesn’t need to be safe-
guarded by a sixpenny minimum. Australian malt
spirit, as Mr. Joshua protested, costs as much to produce
as the best of the imported brands; but it can be soldi
cheaper because there is a differential duty of 4s. a gallon,
in its favor, and also because it is relieved of heavy ship-.
ping charges. But because it is Australian, and not,
foreign, the fact that it ought to he cheaper, on account,
of the differential duty, is generally overlooked : whereas ,
the fact that it is cheaper counts to its discredit in the .
estimation of unreasoning citizens.
Therefore it is widely sold by hotelkeepers in the dis-
guise of imported spirit, and the progress of its popu-
larity is, as far as possible, retarded by licensedl
victuallers. Obviously the interests of the unblessed/
Trade must be antagonistic to a public demand for Aus-
tralian spirits so long as the sixpenny nobbier rate is
maintained. The public knows—or ought to—that the
old retail rate was established long before Joshua started
to distil whisky, and long before the tariff gave the local
product an advantage of 4s. a gallon (not to mention
freightage saving)over the imported article. And, know-
ing this, it would naturally decline to pay 6d. a nobbier
for Australian whisky were it offered as such, over
the counter, though it be, as indeed it is, equally costly
in the manufacture as the best of the imported stuff.
No excellence in its quality could prevail against the
argument that it ought to come cheaper than foreign
whisky if it pays 4s. a gallon less duty than the spirit
which for all these years has been sold at sixpence a
drink. If Bung is to “ strenuously oppose any reduction
of the present price of spirits,” either his opposition
must be overcome or he must continue to conceal the
identity of the Australian whisky he dispenses in disguise,
even as other retailers, professing to sell “ imported
goods only,” offer local products under mock-foreign
labels.
In seeking the easiest remedy for this anti-Australian,
abuse, The Bulletin is brought back to the simple truth,
that, “ If the hotelkeepers were called upon to sell whisky-
at 3d., they would have to give away far less than at,
present.”
Why, in the name of Bacchus, is the “giving away”'
system permitted in the liquor trade ? Why do barmaids,
pass the bottle and leave tne size of a drink to the dis-.
cretion of the customer? Other traders know exactly
what they are selling and what profit they are making
on the deal. The bargain-huntress buys a certain length
of dress material; she doesn’t take the scissors and cut off '
much or little at a fixed price. The butcher sells steak,
by the pound. The tobacconist doesn’t pass the tobacco .
and leave it to the smoker to fill his pouch for 6d, The
publican should sell his whisky by the measure, as is done •
in those countries w'here Bung’s imported spirits come
from. Then would the Health of the Community (God .
bless it!) be much more safeguarded than at present. •
Moreover, the hotelkeeper would have no more induce-,
ment to refrain from displaying brands of Australian whis-
ky on his shelves, or for denying that he kept Australian,
whiskvin the bulk. It would beavailableat3d., 4d., or6d-
a nobbier in a somewhat larger measure than was granted!
to a spirit that pays an extra 4s. a gallon duty and a,
freight tax in addition. The public would know 'what it.
was buying, the competition between Australian andi
foreign wet goods would be fair and open, the sentiment
of patriotism would be appealed to. A brief Act.
of Parliament can accomplish this sorely needed re-
The Sheet Anchor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What Mr. Tilley Brown said in Indi, a day or two ago,
most of his Fusionist friends are saying everywhere.
Thfcy distrust the Federation, he says, and they “look
upon the State Parliaments, with their Legislative Coun-
cils, as the sheet anchor of the people’s safety.” In that
one sentence the whole murder is out. The State Rights
party distrusts the Federation, it trusts the States, and
in this financial agreement it is selling the Federation to
the States.— Melbourne Age.
O, ye thoughtful fellow-voters, have ye ever staged
to ponder
On the thing that stops us drifting to the Doom
that waits us yonder—
Stops us whirling fast and faster
To political disaster?
Have ye thuswise contemplated ?
Have ye wisely cogitated
On the danger-light ahead
Shining out a warning red ;
On the hand that holds us back
When we’d tread a downward track?
(Metaphor ? Though we abuse it,
Such a subject must excuse it.)
Do ye know what saves us from the Doom that’s
lurking on the mat?
’Tis the trusty, old Sheet Anchor of Reactionary
Fat.
O, great Legislative Councils! Think, my
brothers, how they’ve served us.
Yea, behold the fate from which the Noble Land-
lord has preserved us.
While we lay abed at night
He has carried on the fight.
When the House is sitting late,
There he watches o’er our fate.
While the wild-eyed Labor man
Weaves some visionary plan.
Wrapt in contemplation deep
Ha sits in the House—asleep,
With his hands across his middle ;
Wakes to murmur “ Fiddle-diddle ! ”
Then drops off again to snooze
While wild Democrats abuse ;
And they talk and howl and storm,
Prate of “Justice” and “Reform.”
Spite of Socialistic roars,
Still he sleeps and gently snores.
Then, when bells ring for division, see him rouse
and proudly go
O’er the floor, brave old Sheet Anchor, there to
voice a loud, mad “ No ! ”
Can ye even faintly picture what our fate would
be, my brothers,
But for that most Honorable Mister Toryphat
and ’others— ,
He and others of his kidney
(Also liver), up at Sydney,
Ad’laide, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth?
They, the salt of all the earth,
Have preserved us from the curse
Of too much content, or worse ;
Saved our great estates from bursting,
And defied the crowd that’s thirsting
Ev’ry system to upend,
And the Social Fabric rend.
Noble Anchors, it is they
Who hold off that dreadful day
When the Socialistic band
Ravages our native land,
And with wild* exultant cries
Scotches Private Enterprise.
They, the saviors of the race,
Keep the worker in his place,
Ever teaching him that he
Is a Briton, brave and free,
Free to work and free to live
On whate’er his masters give ;
It is they, and they alone,
Save the Hempire and the throne.
Think of how they flap the flags
When our sense of duty sags.
Hear them, as they voice aloud
Views of our “Right Thinking” crowd,
And uphold, with holy glee,
Sacred rights of Proper tee.
Brave Sheet Anchors ! Holding ever
When the straining ship would sever
Chain and cable, and drift out
To the rocks we’re told about—
Horrid rocks that loom ahead,
Filling “ Proper Folk ” with dread.
Be ye humble, O my brothers, for the honor of
the race,
And salute the Great Sheet Anchor that has kept
us in our place.
victoria.
DEN.


Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
UPP— Moving: Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George St.; Melbourne—266 Collins St.
Brisbane—93-95 Queen St.; Adelaide—Gawler Place
Franz Josef Lag'er Beer.
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
Adams’ Tattersall's Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
form. At present Mr. Bung is licensed to pass the bottle
of spirits per medium of his hired Hebe or Ganymede,
whereas he is equally licensed to sell beer by measures,
which measures are subject to Government inspection.
Let him notv be licensed not to sell spirits except by
measure, and let the Australian whisky standard measures
be hahed as a proof of the Government’s desire to give
adequate Protection to local industry.
♦
The Big Estates.
One day last week Premier Wade, of N.S.W.,
announced with pride that his Government had
resumed and cut up 13 estates and settled thereon
1093 farmers. The Bulletin is glad to hear it,
and gives Mr. Wade all the credit he deserves for
his work—which isn’t much. And while that
rather dreary gentleman is on the subject, it
would be glad to learn from him how many
farmers—whether 78 or 1094 or 1322—have during
the same period sold out to other landholders, and
thus laid the foundation of perhaps 26 new
estates. All over Australia Governments just
like Wade’s are buyingand cutting up big estates,
yet in not one State is there an efficient law to
make the estates remain cut up. So the old
estates are obliterated at huge expense, and the
new ones grow ; and it is all a silly shovelling of
wind, a digging of holes in the sea, a pegging-out
of allotments in the air, a struggle to carry water
in h sieve, a process of importing post-holes and
loose atmosphere, and a spinning of ropes out of
the seashore sand. If there is anv merit in cutting
up big estates, then surely even Gr. Wade must be
able to see that there is equal merit in keeping
them cut up. A progressive land-tax, if it were
heavy enough, would serve both purposes; but if
Wade has insuperable objections to that remedy he
might at least devise a law to prevent the water
falling through his sieve as fast as he pours it in.
A simple method would be to divide the State
into districts according to rainfall and fertility,
to decide what is a fairly liberal area in each
district for the support of a family (the local Land
.Board being authorised to make any necessary
exceptions and allowances in the case of mountains,
rocks, bogs, sand-patches and the like), and then
to enact that no new landholder should buy or
hold more than the legal area, and that no
old landholder who already possessed more
than the legal area should be qualified to buy or
inherit any additional land under any possible
circumstances. If it was further enacted that, in
case of any evasion of the law, the land which was
dummied or otherwise illegally acquired should
go to the informer (or if he wasn’t qualified to hold
it, that the value should go to him), it would be a
very serviceable law. It would at least provide
that when any big estate happened, to be sub-
divided it would remain that way. Gregory
Wade might think seriously over this matter.
His present position, as a man who is simply
howling to break up 13 big estates yet doesn’t
care a hang if 26 bigger ones take their place, is
anomalous.
♦
What Fusion Leads To.
They do things in a wonderful way in Tasmania.
Recently J. W. Cheek, a member of the Leg.
Council—the member who always leaves us won-
dering how he ever got into that pudding—made a
long series of very bad charges against the Lands
Department. There were startling allegations
among them ; for instance—(to take just one out
of about 60): —
(5) Assisting and conniving with large landowners in an
attempt to close a public road in use for 50 years, such
road being needed as a means of communication between
two important centres of population, and also as a means
of access to unsold Crown land ; also improperly remov-
ing the tracing of such road from recent charts, thereby
giving intending selectors the impression that there is no
existing outlet from the unsold Crow'n land, and thereby
assisting adjacent landowners to purchase such land at
less than market value.
Originally Cheek made about three score of such
allegations in the House. The Tasmanian Tory
newspapers with one voice said that Cheek ought
to be ashamed of himself to use his position of
privilege in that way. To that Cheek replied
by making still stronger allegations in a letter
which he sent to the papers, giving the
papers at the same time an indemnity against any
iction for damages for publishing it. Thereupon,
seeing that Cheek wasn’t to be choked off, an
action for libel was threatened ; and, if Mr.
Harold Crisp was not actually retained to prose-
cute, his name was certainly used in that connec-
tion. J It was used quite naturally, too; for, as
the papers of November 25, 1909, show, in con-
nection with the charges against the department,
“Mr. Harold Crisp appeared on behalf of the
officers of the Lands Department.” And now,
having appeared on behalf of the officers of the
Lands Department, Mr. Harold Crisp has
been appointed a Royal Commissioner to
inquire into the charges against the officers of
the Lands Department! Nobody is heard to say
that Mr. Crisp isn’t an honorable man. But if Mr.
Crisp acted a few months ago as advocate for one
of the parties to the dispute, it leaves a nasty
suspicion in the mind that, if he is impartial and
dyes not show unconscious bias as a Judge in the
same cause, it will be a horrible disappointment
to the Government which appointed him. The
reflection, therefore, isn’t on Crisp, but it is on
the Government which, having observed what side
he was on as an advocate, promptly lifted him up
to the position of Judge in the same case. It
shows the methods of Government in Tas-
inania; and there is very little doubt that
it is the Fusion that is responsible for
it. No crowd which didn’t think that, by reason
of combination with another crowd, it could do
what it darned well pleased, would venture upon
such an action. If the lesson is lost on Australia,
in connection with the present appeal to the
Commonwealth to endorse a similar Fusion, it
will be Australia’s own funeral.
♦
Owing to the fact that the fiscal issue has been
sunk, the Freetrade League of New South Wales
has no further use for the following circular,
which is, therefore, given away to Federal can-
didates :
Carrington-avenue, Hurstville, March 2, 1910. Dear
Sir, —In view of the fact that you are a candidate at the
forthcoming elections, we should be grateful if you
would answer the enclosed questions. Thanking you in
anticipation of your early reply, we are, yours faithfully,
the Freetrade League of New South Wales. W. Huggle-
stone, hon. sec.
Are you prepared, if elected, to pledge yourself—
1. To resist any attempt to increase the duties now
levied under the existing tariff?
2. To resist the imposition of new duties on what are
now free goods?
3. To use every available opportunity to secure the
reduction of the present tariff ?
Kindly write “ Yes” or “No ” opposite each question.
As a sunken article the fiscal issue appears to be a
failure. No article, or corpse, or defunct dog can
properly be said to be sunk that continually rises
to the surface with a swindle in its dead hand.
Two years ago The Bulletin said that when
the time came it would speak a word for
Arthur Rae, one of the sturdiest Labor
battlers in all Australia; and now that he
is One of the Labor three for the Senate in
N.S.W., The Bulletin gives a man who knows
him very well the chance to utter the promised
word:—
If the electors of New South Wales desire to be repre-
sented in the Senate by “ a white man”—sturdy, con-
sistent, honest, brave and hardworking—they have only
to vote for “ little Arthur,” who has for his mates McDou-
gall and Gardiner. Democracy in Australasia owes
much to Rae, It is not merely a matter of rhetorical
power. It is rather a matter of sending in a man as keen,
in spite of years of strenuous uphill work, as the best; as
loyal as they make them ; sturdy in courage, untiring in
energy, powerful in debate, good-humored in season and
out of season. Like Carbine of old, “ his heart’s as bigas
a pumpkin,” and his merits are twice as big. To know
him well is never to forget him, and to believe in him to
the nethermost parts of faith.
That is the personal part of the man. But,
though he cannot share either his personality or
his record with his two mates, he shares his policy
with them. That policy is the Federal Labor
party’s policy, and so far as it goes it is good
Australian through and through. It might well
go a lot further, for its deficiencies are consider-
able, and some even of its prominent upholders
are much more Tory than they should be. But
that is another story. Anyhow, it goes further
than any other policy now offering.
At the recent A.N.A. Conference a delegate
moved :
That this Conference urge on the State Government
the extension of the Factories Act to the whole of the
country districts of Victoria.
Then there arose a commotion. One delegate
wanted the resolution biffed out on the ground
that it was “ political.” At last Lemmon, M.L. A.,
said:—
The Board would accept the motion if it were made to
provide that, instead of the Factories Act, the special
Wages Board provisions only should apply to industries
in the country. The resolution would not apply to butter
factories or creameries.
This was agreed to and the motion was carried.
Why butter factories and creameries can’t, in the
estimation of the A.N.A., pay decent wages is a
mystery. Consider some recent figures:—
Six Months’ Paid for Milk
Factory. Operations. to Farmers.
Colac .. .. To Dec. 31, 1909 £97,569
Camperdown .. „ ~ ~ 38,583
Glenormiston .. ~ Jan. 31, 1910 38,733
To say that factories paying these huge sums for
milk cannot afford good wages for their employees
is plain mid-summer madness. They are pouring
a stream of gold into the landowners’ pockets.
The employees in each factory are so few that the
extra money would hardly be noticed. Yet any
suggestion of a Wages Board sends the directors
crazy and the farmers fall about in blue fits. The
fits are so realistic that even the astute A.N.A. is
apparently gulled by them.
“J.G.”: The Federal Commerce Act contains
provision that boxes of flutter sent by factories or
others to city agents for export must be shipped
as packed, so that whenithe cow product was sent
to the Bull Country as “ Best Kilmore Factory,” or
whatever factory it might be, the buyers in Bull’s
Island would know that they were buying the
grease as made by the factory whereof the name was
on the box. But if the Australian export agents
tampered with the box and took out any churned
milk or put more in, then the box had to be
branded “Re-packed” in big letters. This pro-
vision was put into the Commerce Act to protect
the first-class factories, and other makers of good
cow grease, in view of the exposure before the Vic-
torian Butter Commission as to the habits and
antics of the butter exporters and middlemen. It
acted well, and suited everybody except the gang
of butter manipulators and exporters, who shrieked
that it interfered with Private Enterprise, ham-
pered commerce, and a lot of other things. So
a while back, Minister of Customs and Fusion
Senate candidate Best put the provision out of
action, allowing the butter exporting gang thereby
to tear open boxes of factory butter, re-pack them
with any other brand of butter or alleged butter,
and send the re-packed boxes off as the original
product from the factories. This action of Best
caused a whole herd of cockies and butter-builders
to cry out bitterly, and they are now rubbing
the grass and cow-hair out of their eyes so
that they can see better how to chase
Best out of the Senate in April. A few days
ago Trenwith, another Fusion Senate candi-
date, was questioned severely atßroadford (Vic.)
about this action of Best’s, and professed to know
nothing about it—although he is paid £6OO a year
to know things like this. Owing to Trenwith’s
inability to explain the job, Best was hurried
along to clear up the trouble, but, instead of an
explanation. Best reeled off a long speech on the
inglorious Fusion, and didn’t touch the butter.
Then the cold-blooded elector who had asked
Trenwith the disconcerting question bobbed up
serenely and asked Best the same query. It
was too much. The Fused chairman glared
fiercely at the interjeetor, and said that he would
be thrown out or fined £lOO if he didn’t keep
quiet.
—♦
The Tory press used to think that it had one sure
weapon with which to smite Deakin and his
Ministry and the Labor party. That was what
was known in the early days of last Parliament
as the “Federal Grab”; in other words, the Parlia-
mentary Allowances Act, raising the salaries of
members from £4OO to £6OO. The names of
Deakin and his colleagues and of the Labor men
were to be pilloried daily, and the electors were to
be ordered to bump out all those persons as scoun-
drels who had laid sacrilegious hands on the cash-
ark of the Constitution. At thattimeno one dreamt
that Deakin would become one of the boss Josses
of the reactionary and Freetrade crowd in partner-
ship with Cook. There can now be! no hitting
one without hitting the other. Furthermore, it
was a delicate business, even at the best of times,
to curse Deakin for allowing Lyne to bring in the
Bill, and at the same time to declare that Reid
arid Cook, who voted for the Bill, were the chaps
to save the country. Still, something might have
been made of the so-called “Salary Grab” if
Deakin and Cook hadn’t fused. Now the painful
subject won’t bear mentioning.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Aladdin.”
Royal “ Mrs. Butterfly.”
Palace,... “Woman and Wine.”
Criterion “ As You Like It.”
Tiyoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Country Girl.”
Princess’s “What Every Woman Knows.”
Royal “The Arcadians.”
Kino’s “A Thief in the Night.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
If W. Shakspeare were not W. Shakspeare,
but instead some fellow who wrote things for the
moderif theatre, this is the sort of notice that
“As You Like It” would get from the Daily
Pumpkin :
Mr. Hathaway Bacon’s new melodrama, “ As You Like
It,” was produced by Mr. O’Rash’s company, at Sydney
Criterion, on Saturday night. An unpleasant practice
has grown up during the last few decadent years of label-
ling novels and melodramas with titles which have
no visible connection with the subject matter. Mr.
Bacon is a conspicuous sinner in this respect. He appears
to have reached for one of those cable codes in use in
merchants’ and brokers’ offices, and laid violent hands
upon the first phrase that caught his eye. This method
may save the playwright some trouble ; but it is a ques-
tion whether a playwright has any better justification
for labelling his goods at random than any other manu-
facturer has. But perhaps Mr. Bacon had an idea that
it really didn’t matter; and we are inclined to agree
with him. Our credulity has never been drawn
upon before for so large a sum. Mr. Hathaway Bacon
asks us to believe that a young woman can effectively
disguise herself from her lover by merely changing her
frock for “doublet and hose,” not for a passing moment,
but throughout the greater part of the action of the play.
Had the young man fallen in love with the young woman’s
gown one might have believed it; as it is, he apparently
disregards her face, her voice and her manners. He even
has no suspicions when he is invited to have a game of
love-making, and call the doublet and hose Rosalind—
which is the young woman’s name.
When the farce has gone through a sufficient number
of acts, and it becomes necessary to wind it up
according to the conventions, Mr. Hathaway Bacon
invents some cock-and-bull story about “a green
and gilded snake,” and a lioness from which the
noble young man rescues his elder brother, who, as the
villain of the piece, has robbed him of his inheritance and
tried repeatedly to kill him. The elder brother is, of course,
filled with shame and contrition ; he hands over the keys
to the hero, and thus enables him to setup housekeeping ;
though, judging from his defective eyesight, the young
man will be as liable to try to open the well or the fowl-
house with the keys as the family mansion. A
young man like that certainly ought either to get
a wife or a steady, reliable dog and a string.
Then a second cock-and-bull yarn is invented to
raise the estate of the young woman who
has impenetrably disguised herself by putting on her
brother’s clothes. In reality this young woman is the
daughter and heir of “ the duke”—Mr. Hathaway Bacon
wiselj' leaves the dukedom vague. This duke has been
banished from his dominions by a bad brother, bad
brothers being evidently common in those parts. The
real duke is living in a cave in a forest; but the bad
brother, finding that so many nobles are flocking to the
cave to eat brown bread and stewed lion, decides
to go out with an army and kill the troglodyte. Mr.
Hathaway Bacon has apparently run out of green-
and-gilt snakes for reformatory purposes, but he
provides instead an “old religious man”—out after
lions probably—who hands forth a tract, and thereby
crumples up the usurper. In fact, the usurper is so
ashamed that he doesn’t show himself any more, but
sends on a young fellow to say that he has thrown up
the job, and that the banished duke may resume busi-
ness at the old stand. Of course, all the while in the
cave and the forest the duke hasn’t recognised his
daughter with her legs disguised ; but as soon as she
puts on a frock again everybody sees who it is at once,
and she and the young man with the bad eyesight go off
somewhere to get married.
We do not deny that Mr. Hathaway Bacon has
considerable literary ability ; and, though some of the
language he puts into the mouths of other people might
very well be omitted, he shows nevertheless a pretty
trick of words. He would be well-advised to collaborate
with some more ingenious person who would supply
coherent plots. The superstructure can safely be left to
Mr. Bacon ; and we venture to predict that, under such
circumstances, he will yet do something notable. Even
in the present imperfect production neither of the two
villians smokes cigarettes; and, if he aims at being an
unconventional writer of melodrama, that is something
for Mr. Bacon to go on with.
* • m *
In the current Criterion revival Mr. Asehe
chooses to be Jaques, the cynical philosopher who,
notwithstanding his two famous soliloquies, is a
subordinate character. The “Seven Ages” speech
he delivers as he munches an apple—to the aston-
ishment, no doubt, of the man who remembers
how he stood up and declaimed it at the school
“breaking-up.” Mr. Asche catches and inter-
prets the spirit of the grimy old philosopher
admirably ; not a melancholy Jaques, cer-
tainly, but, like most cynics, getting a lot
of fun out of the follies of his neighbors.
George Relph is the Orlando ; and though
he and H. W. Baker (Charles the Wrestler) made
one of the rehearsals so willing that the amateur
had a small bone of the wrist broken, he too pre-
sents an excellent piece of spirited acting. There
are no more thrilling moments in all the play than
when young Orlando and old Adam are together.
Herbert Grimwood, who was so striking a figure
as the foreign potentate in “The Merchant,”
achieves another triumph of make-up as .the
ancient, Caleb Porter’s Corin is very good
too, especially in that queer gathering where
Touchstone (Athol Forde) holds disputation with
the shepherds. And that still leaves Rosalind
and Celia and Phoebe and Audrey—parts which,
by the way, Shakspeare never saw taken
by women, and which, in fact, were not
taken.-by women until nearly half a century after
his death. Miss Brayton succeeds best when
she is least serious ; still, following the charming
piece of more or less make-believe love-making,
there is nothing finer than the delighted—“ Oh
con, coz, coz. my pretty little coz ! ” as she hugs
her chum Celia ; and she is serious enough then.
Miss Elfrida Clement, the lady who is hugged, is
responsible for another even performance. A
most capable actress is this little lady. But this
notice is too long already, and all the rest that can
be squeezed in is that the others are all better
than fair, and that the singing is the weakest
point m the production. There is no Kenning-
ham m this co. as there was in the last big “ As
You Like It” in Sydney.
** * *
Pantomime, with its don’t-care-if-I-don’t-
get-home-till-the-last-train spirit, suits the holiday
crowds of Sydney; and the J.C.W. trinity, after
counting up the “Aladdin” receipts at Her
Majesty’s, will be looking out for a few more in-
vestments shortly. Crowded and joyful houses
have been the rule seven times a week—or nine
times this week to make up for missing one whole
day last week.
“ ALADDIN ” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Pantomime China. Some of the people.
Puccini’s “Mrs. Butterfly” was producd
for the first time in Australia at Sydney Royal
last Saturday night. It is not likely to enthuse the
multitude, or indeed the average local opera-
goer. It lacks altogether the glowing and haunt-
ing melodies of “La Bob&me.” The orchestra-
tion, so vaunted by Old World critics, is amazing
in its virtuosity ; and the repeated effects gained
by the mingling of the voices and the
wood and wind instruments are beautiful
and strangely suggestive. But it is not the re-
strained, cynical emotion of Asia which is
suggested. The passion and playfulness of Cho-
Cho-San, the Japanese, are the passion and play-
fulness of the Parisian boulevards. Pinkerton,
the American, is no more American as to his
appearance and mannerisms than the nearest
Dago oyster-vendor. It is difficult for a stout
vivacious Frenchwoman to interpret convincingly
the r&le of a stoical little slave-woman of Japan ;
and it is hard for a, typical Chilian to
portray a Yankee sailor-man. When such
people are placed amid Asiatic surround-
ings, there to voice in broken English the
sentimentalities of the Occident, artificiality
is bound to supervene. As a fact, “ Mrs. Butter-
fly,” as produced at the Royal, appears the quint-
essence of artificiality. It doesn’t begin to con-
vince as a picture of life. It is worth while only
for its music, now quaint, now passionate, now
sad, and always appealing.
# * * *
Belasco’s w r ell-known drama—played here
some years ago, with Miss Knight-Moll ison in the
name part —is followed pretty closely by
Puccini’s librettist. Butterfly and her U.S.
lieutenant are married in the purely temporary
fashion that obtains in the land of the Geisha.
She takes the ceremony seriously ; he doesn’t.
He sails away and marries one of his own race ;
she stays behind in a state of rigid grass-widow-
hood. and looks after their joint and flaxen-haired
offspring. The deceiver’s ill-advised return with
his white wife is the signal for the hapless colored
lady to fall in despair upon one of her ancestors’
swords.
Skilful acting and likely personalities are
capable of making even this improbable story
convincing for stage purposes. The dramatised
version that was presented here “went,” inas-
much as it was played by artists who, for various
reasons, really contrived to suggest the charac-
ters. Bel Sorel (Cho-Cho-San), the prima-donna
of last Saturday, has a delicious and cultivated
voice; but from start to finish she is no
more than a typical Parisian in a kirnopo.
Zerga (Pinkerton) is the possessor of a ringing
lyric tenor, but his physical disabilities* handicap
him sorely. Rosina Buckmann is successful as
Suzuki, and the minor parts are well played.
The scenery is exquisite, and too much appro-
bation can’t be handed to the fine orchestra which
Hazon has got together.
** * #
West’s Pictures draw big crowds to the
Sydney Glaciarium. There the fierce spirits that
stay at home and delight to know that other
people are shedding their gore find encourage-
ment in the representation of the last muster of
that Light Brigade which threw itself like a bucket
of slops at the Russians on the field of Balaclava.
After this memorial of a famous defeat the
management' stimulates the patriotism of the
holiday-makers by showing Edward VII. opening


CINEMATOGRAPH Filins for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The health of your children depends very
largely upon keeping their stomach and bowels in
good condition. Chamberlain’s Tablets are a per-
fect laxative and stomach regulator for children.*
1
m
m
1818
tsfdb
the Parliament which isn’t quite sure that it
oughtn’t to get shut up at once. Amongst other
things of beauty there are “ The Egyptian Maid ”
d scenes in Nova Scotia and such foreign places,
Lyceum, also, is nothing if not patriotic and
1 rlike. There we have the same elderly Ed.
opening the same young and dying Parlia-
* and the same “series of intrinsic humane
m elue,” as the S. M. Herald weirdly calls it,
vancerning the Six Hundred ; also, a reminder of
eo e valiant days when Great Britain went mad
thunk and mafficked. The Bijou keeps its head
drol, and deals out pictures which are none the less
coteresting and attractive because they represent
inot only heroes and warriors and monarchs, but
nlso vivid scenes of various kinds in all parts of
ahe world and in all stages of society.
& * *
* *
Houdini, of the handcuffs, duly arrived at
Sydney Tivoli on Easter Monday, and performed
several escape tricks behind a screen, for which
the crowded audience liberally applauded him
when he re-appeared. His performances in
full view of the public consisted of two
speeches in the United States language,
and an escape from a strait-jacket. To this
scribe by f<f.r the most interesting of the
three was the speech in which he announced
that he had telegraphed to Victoria for his bi-
plane, and hoped to make an ascent in Sydney,
The post-dated cheers of The Bulletin will be
delivered with cqmpound interest when, in full
view of the populace, Houdmi escapes for a few
minutes from the attraction of this earth, and
soars triumphantly into the blue. The acrobatic
Wille Bros., Lily Langtry, Allan Shaw (coin
manipulator), Olga Grey (mimic), and Tom
Dawson are the other bright spots in the pro-
gramme’s.starry crown.
a* *
™. , , . T , r . ~ .
Tho bulge in Wirth Bros, big canvas
home up in Prince Alfred Park (Sydney)
which denotes the full tent hasn’t gone down
since last week ; in fact, it is somewhat larger than
it was, and if Omar had constructed the shelter
he would by this time be lurking round in the
vicinity of the camel with a spare rubaiyat in the
pocket of his robe for patching purposes, in case
the pressure of the audience within proved too
much for the edifice. After the whirling Frantz
Family, Datas the memory man, the joyous
clowns and the horses, trails the fascinating and
wonderful Noah’s Ark procession, composed of
lions, bears, camels, elephants, tigers, leopards
and wolves, and the steel-nerved Noah’s Ark
ueople who train and exhibit them. At Wirths’,
Entertainment has to watch out to avoid gallop-
ing on Diversion’s heels, and the programme has,
now and then, to do two things at once, so that
the show may get through at a reasonable hour.
“ The Arcadians,” produced at Melbourne
Royal last Saturday, is a musical comedy with a
“ soul ” —not too much soul, but enough. The sub-
stantial body of it is partly conventional, and con-
siderably grotesque. James Smith, the elderly
cockney caterer who passed out of worldly ken on
his aeroplane and re-appeared as a semi-naked
young man under an alias , is more grotesque
though less of a novelty than Doody, the pessi-
mistic jockey. Doody retires from the turf to take
a waiter’s billet at the new Arcadian Restaurant,
opened by Mrs. Smith (in Piccadilly) to meet the
fashionable craze for Simple Life refreshments.
Between the humorous effects of Cromwell
as Smith Simplieitas and Tom Walls as
the lugubrious Doody there is something to choose. ,
Whereas the acclimatised comedian is cheerfully
funny, the newcomer’s part is absurdly droll. His
heart is blighted, and his one passion is to keep
his weight down. He lives on rueful reminis-
cences and soda water, and in sad sepulchral
tones he refers to himself as a bit of a Don Juan.
Melbourne will talk of Peter Doody as time rolls
on, for he represents a caricature rather than a
fiction. Associated in broad comedy with Smith
and the spectral horseman is Nellie Kavanagh,
another newcomer, as Mrs. Smith. She is a large
good-humored lady in a good-humored part, and
a capital actress at that.
* ¥ # *
For the rest, the characters are pic-
turesquely Arcadian or orthodoxly bright. Miss
Maie Sydney, the Sombra of the story, has a
pretty little style and a sweet, high soprano voice,
which is said to be not at its best just now. She
might put more force into her part, but she is at
least winsome in all respects. Miss Gertrude
Gilliam, who plays the principal lady-worldling
and sings duets with Harold Thorley, strikes one
on first acquaintance as being merely satisfactory.
Her singing and her attempts at Irish brogue
have no special charm about them, but she is
light and graceful on her feet, a remark that
doesn’t apply to Thorley. Essie Perrin looks
and dances sweetly as Sombra’s sister missionary.
A clever acrobatic dance is supplied by Arthur
Edwards. A sporting baronet, in irreproach-
able clothes, is well presented by Conway Wing-
field, and there are many others who behave
naturally under impossible conditions, and sing
with mild success when required. The music of
“ The Arcadians ” ranges from simply pretty to
positively charming, the dialogue, as a rule, is as
amusing as the plot, and the tout ensemble adds a
feather—even two or three feathers—to the mana-
gerial hat of Clarke and Meynell. In fact, this is
a mighty fine show, and a credit to the land of its
adoption. Victor Champion, as director of an
augmented orchestra, waves his baton at a" chorus
which is especially strong in male voices. Phil
Goatcher has painted some beautiful backgrounds
for the elegant harmonies of millinery, and Wen-
man’s stage-management attains a triumphant
height in the exciting suggestion of a horserace,
invisible to the audience, but loudly commented
on by the performers. What the audience see of
the great turf event is Cromwell clinging to the
neck of a handsome, fat racehorse, once renowned
as Dreamland.
** * #
“ What Every Woman Knows” was pre-
sented at Melb. Princess’s on Saturday night, for
the first time in Australia, and a crowded audi-
ence marvelled at the J. M. Barrie-like audacity
of its construction. The author has woven his
threads of human character into a tissue of amaz-
ing contradictions. His work holds together, but
a finger pressed upon a weak spot goes right
through the thin material. And the weak spots
are everywhere. Compared with “The Admirable
Crichton,” the most picturesquely whimsical of
Barrie’s comedies, this is a fragile piece of satire,
verra Scottish in sentiment and color. An odor
of haggis, tifiged with a faint aroma of whusky,
is wafted across the footlights from the first and
best scene in the play. The Wylie family—old
man Alick, and two sons and daughter Maggie—
have risen to affluence on the strength of a granite
quarry. With deeficultee they break their mas-
sive domestic silence until John Shand steals into
the room like a burglar. Shand is a young rail-
way porter with a prodeegious desire to improve
his mind and acquire siller. His burglarious
visits are made for the purpose of feast-
ing his hard, dull mind on dry litera-
ture from the Wylie bookcase, and the
result of this discovery by the canny family is a
proposal, propounded by the eldest son, to give
John Shand three hundred poun’ to spend on his
education if he will contract to marry Maggi e at
the end of five years.
* * * 9
Maggie starts methodically to improve her
mind, Whilst John —six years younger than her-
self—is hewing out his career. John seems
blind to everything but his future greatness.
He never sees a joke or spends saxpence
unnecessarily. He takes his M. A. degree, achieves
a partnership in a boiler-scraping business, and
gets into Parliament. Also he marries Maggie,
as per contract, after that self-educated spinster
lias offered to set him free. John shows a shock-
ing lack of taste in dress and manners ; neverthe-
less a dainty woman of fashion —Lady Sybil
Lazenby—is struck by his force of character. So
they fall in love with one another, whilst Maggie
looks serenely and helplessly on. When they
want to go and live together Maggie arranges for
her hero, John, to retire to a country house and
prepare his Great Speech in the inspiring com-
pany of Lady Sybil. Whereupon Lady Sybil
realises the expectations of John’s lawful wife by
becoming heartily sick of John’s pretentious stu-
Eidity. In his new character of a hard-headed
cthario ready to ruin his precious career at the
prompting of disrespectable Love, the man is an
utter failure. As a speech-composer he is de-
pendent on Maggie for decorative ideas. When
he gets to know himself as Maggie had always
known him, the man humbles himself, and the
curtain falls upon a puerile reference to the origin
of human female species. Maggie says that
woman was made out of man’s funny bone. Which
is a verra Scottish joke, anyhow.
** * *
The Lord only knows what J. M. Barrie
means by “What Every Woman Knows.” If he
would convey the lesson that a wise woman’s in-
fluence over the man she is identified with is apt
to be much greater than he readily admits it to be,
Barrie might have called his play “What Every
Intelligent Man Knows.” If he wishes to suggest
that wise wives shake hands with the other cat and
send her off with John on a trial trip to cure them
of their illusion, Barrie is preaching nonsense.
There is, of course, a,lot in the comedy besides its
plot. The play of fancy is mostly amusing and
often puerile. Realism is introduced into false
situations. From the moment when the other
woman appears the story loses all air of pro-
bability. The idea of the Whip of the Liberal
party supervising John Shand’s speech, like a
“THE ARCADIANS ” AT MELB. ROYAL.
Wm. Cromwell as James
Smith (before he was tipped
into the well of Truth),
And as Simplicitas
(after emerging
from the well).
schoolmaster criticising a pupil’s essay, is not
more absurd than the theory, ingrained in Barrie’s
sermon, that women, as a class, are more humor-
ous than men. This may be true of the Scotch,
as a class—but the public in general are not Scotch.
It would be gross flattery to Harcourt Beatty and
Nellie Stewart to say that they are other than
equally unconvincing in their parabolic characters.
They make a number of points artistically, but
even in the first act, where the atmosphere is
truthful, neither of them seems so real as Athol-
wood, who plays the elder brother Wylie. For
such undramatic character parts Atliolwood’s
style is heavy, yet he contrives to suit himself to
his Wylie surroundings,and giveaGlasgow stamp
to the dialogue. Gregan McMahon adds a clever
enough sketch of the younger and slower-witted
brother ; whilst Eardley Turner figures as an un-
Scawtch parent, though he ought to be the
Scawtchest of them all. Miss Gwen Burroughs
has flashes of brightness as the incredible Lady
Sybil, and the piece is neatly staged. A capable
orchestra is remarkable for the inclusion of a bag-
piper.
** * *
For a fortnight only, prior to the revela-
tion of “The Dollar Princess,” the Williamson
new Comic Opera Co. is playing “ A Country
Girl ”at Her Majesty’s. Six years ago, or more,
Melbourne decided that “ A Country Girl ” was
a comparatively reasonable and exceptionally
smart thing of its type, which is nowadays out of
type. The revival stands the test of old recol-
lections. The people who migrate from Devon-
shire to London and assemble at the official
residence of the Minister of Fine Arts are
as effective in the aggregate as they used
to be. Dorothy Court seems a somewhat
meagre substitute for Florence Young as the
prima-donna; but Lottie Sargent is a milliner
after the multitude’s own heart, and Olive God-
win makes quite as impressive a tawny Princess
as the Rajah of Bhong deserves to have in attend-
ance ; also the combination of Herbert Clayton
and the diminutive Percy fills their section of the
bill. The fact that the narrative has a definite
beginning and a hazy conclusion, like the tail of a
meteor, doesn’t really matter. The chorus keeps
its end up. and this is an entertainment wherein
the support of the chorus is highly essential, and
a lot of side-interest attaches to the legs thereof.
#* # *
“A Thief in the Night,” at Melbourne
King’s, may best be described as a medley of
past inventions, stirred up with a borrowed spoon.
The play begins with a domestic picture that
would make a Christmas supplement for a highly
respectable paper ; then passes through erup-
tions of blood and bother; and concludes with
uproar, justice and bliss. Michael Pagani, a
Dago gentleman with the superb vacuity of a
hollow gourd, is the principal villain of
the piece. Lying, blackmail, robbery, mur-
der, cynicism, irreverence and infidelity are
some of Michael’s indiscretions. If he had a
few debaucheries and some big buffooneries, liis
name might be Nero. Michael has assistants in
depravity—a shady male who looks as if he has
been used to horses, and a woman whose past is
somewhat blue. The lady is equally bizarre and
iniquitous. She shoots her boyish dupe who is
dying gloriously from consumption, and attempts
to make a torch of her rival by sprinkling the lady
with kerosene. Moreover, she aids in separating
the said rival from husband, child and domicile ;
makes allegations against her virtue; helps to
detain her in gaol for seven years; and is ex-
tremely rude to all the servants. Of course there
are many other things in this complex insanity of
a play ; for instance, a nondescript damsel who
has apparently stolen her wardrobe from a
travelling circus, and also the usual delightful
che-ild.
* * * *
Of the actors and actresses one can only
say that the gentlemen are much superior to the
ladies. Roy Redgrave is a capital figure as
Michael Pagani, and could sell ice-cream or grind
an organ without anyone suspecting his nation-
ality. George Cross, as Alan Escombe, the lovely
husband, plays the flute of the seven deadly
virtues with graceful regard for time and punctua-
tion. Bert Bailey is Toby, the gardener, an
amusing solo trumpeter. Temple Harrison is the
shady character who resembles an ostler, whilst
Rutland Beckett, as the consumptive, has
little to do but die in a landscape of
old rose. Miss Olive Wilton is a noisy
and indifferent adventuress. Miss Fanny Erris
is bright but unpolished in her part of Happy
Christmas, her worst offence being a feminine
impersonation of the laugh which G. P. Huntley
introduced to this country. As for Miss Duggan
—well, she has done better than this. In the part
of the persecuted wife, she is a mechanical melo-
dramactress, with a strange manner of speech as
the sum-total of her originality.
** * #
About the most brilliant of Spencer’s
pictures at Melbourne Olympia this week is
entitled “Norwegian Fjords.” The film is a
study of splendid grandeur, unrelieved by any-
thing trivial. In the \vay of fiction the other
pictures are of fainter merit. “ The Heroine of
Mafeking”is a mere patriotic nightmare. “The
Sins of the Fathers” is a better piece of melo-
drama, with a feud as its central sensation ; and
“ The Burglar’s Revenge” is a pleasant comedy-
specimen full of a keen, ironic gaiety. Also,
there is " Foolshead |Preaches Temperance,” but
some people are growing weary of Mr. Foolshead.
#* # #
At Melbourne Opera House the brilliant
De Dio is disclosing herself as a surf nymph,
though the disclosure keeps well enough on the
safe side. Also Johnny Gilmore is singing and
talking; but his songs are only slight noises and
his talk moderate garrulity. As regards the
others—or at least some of them—the Dartos are
giving their clever Apache dance; the Huxhams
are fooling like people of no importance; and
Tom Parker is suggesting that he is only an echo
of Austin Rudd, drawn out thin! Vasco, the
Mad Musician, and Alexandra and Bertie, gym-
nasts, were to have arrived last Monday, and will
be informed in due course whether their re-
appearance after a lapse of years is regarded as a
delight or a delinquency.
** * *
The Adelaide public gave Hugh Ward
such support in “ A Bachelor’s Honeymoon ” that
he ran it for the whole of his season at tjie Royal.
The said public, which wanted to see “The
Fencing Master,” feels ill-requited. What a gold-
mine a play of this kind must be when it js suc-
cessful ! No scenery, or dressing or mounting ;
just a small co. of clever comedians—and full
houses. More Americanism now holds the stage.
Julius Knight is the Lion that shrinks as the
Mouse swells, and he scores a success in a
part right out of his usual line. Katherine
Grey is the Mouse—a natural yet dramatic
performance. Langford Kirby, back from
opera, is again the big man’s son. The play
has a bit of the sermon about it, but has
“ held ” the holiday crowds well. Tivoli, Empire
and Olympia are where they were; the Town
Hall is showing pictures of Shackleton and his
adventures on the ice ; a big exhibition of local
manufactures has started a six weeks’ run at the
Jubilee, and gives concerts every evening; and
Sacco Homan has descended for a similar period
into a glass tomb, where he will live or die on soda
water and cigarettes. Also a skating rink, defy-
ing summer conditions, has started its winter
career.
THE ARCADIANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Arcadee, the land of spotless truth,
Sweet nymphs and swains preserved their golden youth
Despite the flight of years. Time aged them not,
Nor fleshly love or hate disturbed their lot
In Arcadee,
Till Smith arrived upon his aeroplane,
And fell among them. Bothered to explain
His town-bred whiskers and his monstrous guise—
So out of place beneath Arcadian skies—
Smith squeezed the nicest nymph and told her lies.
Rude worldly lies the monster dared to tell!
The nymphs and shepherds plunged him in the Well
Of Truth ; and thence —O, what a wondrous change !
He came transformed, a vision quaintly strange,
To Arcadee.
Renamed Simplicitas; brow decked with curls,,
And legs more bare than limbs of ballet-girls.
Then Sombra and Ohrysea, lovely pair,
Sped off with him to England through the air
To teach the Simple Life to monsters there.
On Askwood racecourse, where the careless throng
Talked, danced and sang, confusing right with wrong,
Sweet Sombra told them of the Simple Life,
Whilst Smith held converse with his buxom wife.
In safe disguise from what he erst had been,
There Peter Doody happened on the scene—
A jockey, wasting on a straw a day,
A smileless bloke with face of ashen gray
Whose “ motter,” it appeared, was “ always gay.”
The racehorse Deuce, with dismal Doody up,
Was backed for tons of oof to win the Cup ;
But when that luckless jockey ventured near
The gee-gee knocked him down and gnawed his ear ;
So gentle Sombra interviewed the brute,
And learned from it that Doody wouldn’t suit.
(She knew “dumb ” language—sounds and signs of words
That tell to man the thoughts of beasts and birds
In Arcadee.)
Spake Deuce to Sombra, smiling at his side—
“ We racers say, in friendly' bond allied,
It I’m to win, Simplicitas must ride.”
Lo ! what the gentle maid from Arcadee
Had thus been promised by the gallant gee
Did come to pass. Arrayed in pink and black
Simplicitas sat tight on Deuce’s back,
And won the race. And then the gilded throng
Cropped up at the Arcadian Restaurong,
Where Doody, leaning on a shepherd’s crook,
Appeared as waiter, and gent’s orders took
For cold, chaste water from the babbling brook.
But in the London world, where sin is rife,
None cared to live the Good and Simple Life
Save Sombra. All her sweet reproofs, alas !
Had no effect on Smith Simplicitas.
Transformed was he to what he’d been before,
With stodgy whiskers on his chops once more ;
Sombra, in good time, returned alone
To Arcadee—
The woman pure who once the world had known,
Untainted by its touch, though wiser grown.
VICTORIA.
E. F.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Check ” : An opera minus a male chorus is a novelty,
but such is the case with W. S. Gilbert and German’s new
work, •‘The Fallen Fairies,” at the London Savoy. There
are only three male principals, and the ladies fill the
other principal r61es. The chorus is feminine. The same
idea was carried out in Humperdinck’s “ Hansel
und Gretel,” which, as Australians will remem-
ber, figured in George Musgrove’s German opera
season of 1907. These operas are sort of coun-
terblasts to Rossini’s “ Barber of Seville ” and
Massenet’s “The Juggler of Notre Dame,” wherein
all the work is done by male and female principals and a
male chorus. In the latter opera the principals are all
males—the only female being a super, who impersonates
the Virgin Mary in a vision, and who neither sings nor
speaks. But the practice of eliminating the female chorus
is not to be commended. The baldheads in the stalls
might go on strike.
“ D.” : Says a Bulletin- writer (17/3/’10): “At any rate
Miss Katherine Grey differs from most American actresses
in being free from theatricalism.” Let me hasten to dis-
agree. I admire Miss Grey’s methods immensely, but I
dispute (1) that they are untheatrical; (2) that theatri-
calism is a defect of the average high-class U.S.
actress. Take Miss Grey’s first entrance in “ The
Lion and the Mouse.” It is the apothe< sis of
staginess. The audience is worked up to a high
pitch of excitement and expectancy by the busi-
ness with the lady’s boxes. Margaret Anglin would
have firmly “ cut” most of that meretricious act. Con-
sider the unobtrusive way she glode on to the stage in
“The Thief.” Few knew she was there till she spoke,
and she never got a “hand.” That, in my view,
was the genuine article in the Art line. As
a fact, the tendency amongst American mum-
mers is rather to under-play than to be theatrical.
Kolker, Anglin, William Gillett and the little Tagliaferro
lady who was here a few years ago are cases in point.
Compare them with the robustious Tittell Brune—who,
I see, has made more or less good in London—Lily Bray-
ton—that beautiful but essentially stagey young woman
—or any other half-dozen artists who have been imported
here from Britain in the last half-dozen years.
“O.K.”: Melbourne notices of James Smith’s death
made no feature of the fact—it was not even alluded to
by the Argus or Age—that he was for many long years
accepted as the leading theatrical critic on the local press.
James Smith wrote of the stage from a long experience
as a playgoer ; of plays he wrote as a careful student of
dramatic literature, and of mummers he was as impartial
a critic as the laws of daily journalism permitted. Twenty
years ago it was the conflict of criticism between James
Smith, of the Argus, and Dr. Nkild, of the Australasian
(issued from the Argus office), which led to the latter’s
retirement. Mrs. Brown Potter was the bone of contention.
Smith wrote her down asacharmingly unnatural and ama-
teurish actress, with eccentric mannerisms ; whilst Neild,
who had previously entertained her at his house,
professed to regard the lady as a Heaven-born
artist. Being asked to modify his views to har-
monise with Smith’s, Neild resigned his billet on
the Australasian, which event was celebrated by a
benefit given to him at Melbourne Princess’s in July,
1890. Mrs. Potter and Bellew contributed the balcony
scene from “ Romeo and Juliet,” and the bill as a whole
was a remarkably strong testimony to the beneficiary’s
friendship with the mummers of the day. Neild then
dropped out of the theatrical world, nut Smith continued
to write Argus notices. A year later he got the chance
of his life to spread himself in erudite dramatic criticism
when Sarah Bernhardt started her Australian tour in
Melbourne. James Smith’s discourse on the performance
of Bernhardt and Oo. in “ Camille ” was the weightiest
and longest deliverance of its kind that the Melbourne
press has ever known.
A LONGED-FOR ALTERATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each Lady who, during the performance, removes her
hat or ornaments for the hair which obstructs the view of
anyone in the audience, shows a graceful consideration
for the pleasure of others.— Out-of-date appeal still
printed on every theatre programme.
“ Each lady who removes her hat ”
The old appeal I sadly scan
Behind a head absurdly fat.
The fashions have rolled on since that
Was drafted for the sake of Man.
They take the hat off now, but they
Arrange the coiffure like a bed.
So, as I listen to the play,
I wish the bill for once would say :
“ Each lady who removes her head.”
N.S.W,
FOE.


LA Maison
Parisienne
Thaoe mark
The Onljj
French Gum House
in Sydney.
You Get the
Best Gloves
at the French
Glove House
Best, because this is the only French Glove
House in Sydney, and we import direct from the
manufacturers.
You will find all the daintiest and latest styles
here, while the prices are not more than you will
care to pay.
Here are a few lines :
3-Button Frenoh Kid Cloves, all shades, 3/6 per pair.
2-Button Frenoh Kid Cloves, new Fancy Stitched
Backs, in Pastelle, White, Drabs, Browns,
G'-eens and Navy, 4/11 per pair.
12-Button Length Best French Kid, in Biscuit,
Pearl, White, Sky, Turquoise Blue, Bose, Pink,
Helio. Topaz and Black, 8/6 per pair.
18- and 20-Button Length in French Kid, every
shade, 11/9 and 15/6 per pair.
We pay the postage to any address. Write for our
Glove List.
AXTENS g CO.
(La Maison Parisienne),
24-30 The Strand, Sydney.
By Special
Appointment
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, M 0 0" s '
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot. “ItIOKIA.
Wedding Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
■ I
1
BEST out of EUROPE
HARRINGTONS' CAMERAS
By the WORLD’S GREATEST MAKERS.
The “ COERZ” FOLDING REFLEX, 5x4. A Superb Camera.
Perfect Poldinjr Svstem. Price £27/10/-
The “COERZ” VEST POCKET TENAX. Hijrh Grade for Small
Pocket (“ Goer/, ” Dayor Lens). Price £ll.
The “ FAVORITE ” for Fikld or Studio, Unique Triple Extension
(Triple Rack). Complete with Tripod, A-plate, 90/-
The “VICTOR” No. 1, the Most Popular Hand Camera in
Australasia, J-olate. Price 30/-
The “ENSIGNETTE” Vest Pocket Camera, Small but Good.
Price 35/-
ALL BEST BRANDS in
PHOTO. MATERIALS.
We stock the Choicest
Models in all the vari-
ous types of Cameras.
We absolutely stand supreme in our
Business, and Stock only the Best.
HARRINGTONS Ltd.
386 George St. (nearg.p.o.) Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 266 Collins St. ADELAIDE: Cawler Place.
BRISBANE: 93 to 95 Queen Street.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
HOW TWO AND TWO MAKE SEVENTEEN.
It is ridiculous to say that if the financial agreement
were ratified, the Federal Government would not have
money to pay old-age pensions. I urge the electors to
accept the agreement on the ground that it will provide
a greater revenue for the Commonwealth and greater
security for the States. —The Queensland Premier at
Stanhope.
HALF-PREMIER KIDSTON: “ You see, if you give
me some of your earnings for ever I wont
have to work any more, and you'll have more
money than previously. Sec what I mean?”
AUSTRALIA: “My oath I do. Good-day! ”
In Adelaide old-age pensioners, when they
go for their money each month, have to climb the
longest and steepest flight of stairs in the city.
This should pay a dividend in two ways : (1) The
office is bound to be cheap on account of its in-
accessibility ; (2) the stairs are certain to cause
the decease of a fair number of pensioners.
A problem which has long gnawed at the
reasoning outfit of this community has at last
been solved. The cause or object or purpose of
the Boy Lout is a mystery no longer. A little
while ago the Japanese Government saw fit to
send a couple of warships mooning along the
Australian coast-line. With a fine sense of the
fitness of things they selected two of the vessels
captured in the last war, so as to remind us
that the white man is down and the brown
man is away up. It was a thoughtful selec-
tion. In due time the Japs arrived at Sydney,
and came ashore and proceeded to look round.
On a previous occasion a whole lot of people
thought that the brownish people looked round
altogether too much and took too much interest
in the strong and weak points of the Australian
cities they visited. Thistime it wasespecially likely
that they would want to study Sydney. It is, of
course, the first big Australian city that an enemy
coming from Asia would reach. It isn’t a difficult
proposition up a winding river, like Brisbane, or'
at the head of an inland sea, like Melbourne, or
some miles from the coast, like Adelaide; in fact,
it can be shelled from the open ocean. It is going
apparently to be the road to the Australian
capital. It is distinctly worth plundering.
And some fools propose that it shall bo
the permanent naval base of Australia, and,
therefore, a place of great interest to all
foreign naval Powers. Therefore those Japs who
hadn’t been here before must have felt a desire to
learn Sydney by heart. And not only were they
allowed to wander around at pleasure ; certain Boy.
Louts actually took them round and showed them
whatever a foreign enemy could desire to know of
the city—its highways and byways, its cross-cuts
to the open water, the intricacies of its harbor
arms, its weak points, which are many, and its
strong ones, which are amazingly few. It was a
great and notable service, and Australia may yet
have cause to remember these Louts and their
doings. The Anglo-Jap alliance is nearly ended
now, and the information which the Nippon men
picked up here may come in very handy after it is
dead. Truly there are in this country some
disastrous Louts, who ought to be • locked up for
their own protection and that of the public.
* * • w
Charles Kaiser makes outcry
0.C.C.” has discovered and exposed (B. 17/3/’10) a
large-sized mare’s nest. The trip up the Hawkesbury
River he speaks of was arranged by the Sackville Railway
League to enable Mr. Lee to see the farms and orchards
along the river the proposed railway would serve ; also to
let him see some of the far-famed beauties of the river
scenery, so that he could judge of its capacity to attract
a large tourist traffic if the place were made accessible.
The trip had absolutely nothing to do with politics or the
approaching Federal elections, as may be known by the
fact tnat it was originally arranged for January. Neither
Mr. Lee nor Mr. B. Hall were responsible for the invitation
to Mr. Cook, nor did they in any way suggest it. I sug-
gested the invitation to Mr. Cook myself, and certainly
my polities are not his. I also suggested an invitation to
Mr. Hughes, who owns a farm in the district. The invita-
tion was sent, but not accepted. Mr. Oook was informed
that the day’s business was not politics, and was asked to
make no political speeches ; nor did he. Finally, had
Mr. Cook paid for the trip on his own it would have cost
him, not £3Q, but £3 10s. only, which was the amount for
hire of the launch used by the party.
* * * *
Certain recent happenings recall the state-
ment of somebody or other that patriotism is the
last refuge of—well, of an eminently undesirable
class of citizen. The Fused party badly wants a
refuge these times. Its two leaders are traitors
alike. Its 255. agreement is a very hard thing to
explain away. Its pitiable subservience to the
State Premiers has made people regard it as a
mere humble and polite doormat. It has Deakin
assuring the community that Protection is
absolutely safe, and a section of his own party
putting up, in the Deakin interest, Foreign-trade
candidates who repudiate this idea utterly and
kick Deakin’s promises all over the place. It is
all a muddle of treason, folly, incapacity and
cowardice. What, then, would a Fused candi-
date naturally do to change the subject
and divert attention from the very disagreeable
facts of the case ? Naturally, he would sing “Buie
Britannia” in the first place. Naturally, also, he
would sing “God Save the King” in the second
place. In the third place, he would, of course,
give three cheers for Ed. VII. After that he
would talk as long as he possibly could about his
blighted “loyalty to the Throne and Person,”
and as little as he could about his party’s record.
Fused candidate Johnson recently tried this
device at Dulwich Hill (Sydney), and when a few
people, by taking nonotice of his “Rule Britannia,”
expressed their utter scorn of the kind of patriotism
which hides behind its beloved sovereign when
it thinks that an egg may be about due, the
severity of. the language of Johnson was something
tremendous. In fact, words almost failed John-
son. A very little more and he would have wept
bitterly into the Twenty-five Bob Agreement.
* * * *
By “ Henry Horsecollar ” :
An inquiry is, or was the other day, being made into
the condition of Kew Lunatic Asylum (Melbourne), and
the witnesses were unanimous that it ought to be re-
placed by a, new and up-to-date structure. The only
reason why I mention this is that I remember writing an
article about the hopeless insufficiency and dilapidation
of Kew Asylum just 25 years ago, in the early part of
ISSS. And it is still the same old Kew. Premiers have
come and gone since then—Service, the wine merchant;
Gillies, the financial maniac ; Munro, of the rotten banks ;
the leggy and diffuse Shiels ; beef-man Patterson ; the
penurious Turner; that . respected cattle-salesman
McLean, who thought cow-dealing and statesmanship
were the same thing ; Peacock of the shriek ; Irvine of
the cold countenance ; Bent of the muddle and the roar-
in fact, almost everything has come and gone except the
old asylum. It is waiting to fall on the lunatics just as
it was a quarter-century ago.
There was a tug-of-war between some
British and German sailors on the Newcastle
showground recently. This is how the Sydney
Telegraph reported it
After the Germans were declared the winners, their
leader held aloft the Teuton flag, and the rest of the
team walked beneath its folds. When the Britishers
came abreast of the foreign victors, the old bulldog breed
could not be suppressed, and one aggressive spirit
rushed at the German leader. Before the flag-bearer had
time to prevent the onslaught he was felled with a well-
timed right swing.
It seems to be characteristic of the irrepressible
old bulldog breed in these, the days of its de-
generacy, that if it can’t win or tie, its tendency
is to wrangle, or else to rush at the winner and
hit him when he isn’t looking. In connection
with the Anglo-Australian cricket tests last year
the London papers themselves owned that the
days when the Briton lost like a sportsman had
vanished.
SHOW ME THE HUTCH!
“Be mine, then, pet, to own and to keep you for ever!"
“ What accommodation have you got for pets!”
An advocate of the finger-print system,
who is a genuine enthusiast in the cause, has
arisen in England. He demands, in London
Evening News (4/2/TO), the compulsory registra-
tion of the finger-prints of the entire British
nation. Assuming the efficacy of the print
business, there are points about the idea.
Most murders are done by amateurs—
men who have not been in gaol. Their
finger-prints, even when they leave them
lying about, afford the police no clue to their
identity, for at present none but persons already
convicted have their finger-markings recorded.
For that matter the thing would be a severe han-
dicap on all beginners at the great game of crime.
The author of the scheme argues that it would also
do valuable work tracing lost children and victims
of loss of memory. He holds it would check the
abandonment of infants—though there are weak
points about the latter contention. And certainly
it would be of vast service in the work of “ identi-
fying the body.”
THE CONGESTED RAILWAYS.
The shortage of trucks, according to Lithgow advices,
is becoming worse. Several mines report loss of time on
this account. —Regular N.S.W. News Item.
N.S.W.: “I say ! We’re very much in need of
this truck; can't you send it along?”
VOICE FROM THE DEEP: “ Can’t you see it's being
used, and, besides, there’s all to-morrow not
touched yet.”
John McCormack was one of the most
surprised men in Melbourne on the seventeenth
®f Ireland. John is a milk vendor, and his habit
of calling’ ‘'milk oh!” at an early hour is so
strenuous that sleepy citizens complained, and,
under a recent by-law, John was invited to the
South Melbourne Court, and fined ss. for “vend-
ing goods with a loud noise.” Melbourne City
Council has a similar by-law, and it once mus-
tered courage to summon a small Herald boy;
but the effort used it up, and the average Mel-
bourne citizen, with dogs, fowls and his voice,
can make as much noise as he likes without
waking up the Law.
* * * *
The copious autumn rains have ensured a
big yield in N.S.W. next wheat season, and large
areas are being ploughed in' consequence of the
timely downpour. But Johnson has practically
confessed that he can’t drag this year’s crop down
the bottle-neck to Sydney before next season
starts, so next year there will be this year’s cold
remains to be l ugged to market as well as the yield
for 1911. The utter futility of the congested
railway system and the haul-everything-to-
Sydney insanity has made wheat-growing
a weird gamble, and in consequence re-
spectable citizens can be seen at any
street corner jumping on their hats.
The infuriated bellow of speculators
who bought wheat in the paddocks
months ago without being able to
persuade Johnson to shift it can be
heard afar off, while the world’s
wheat markets have been steadily
dropping week by week. Why don’t
the insurance companies take up as
a side line the insuring of cocky’s
wheat against the chance of him not
getting a truck from Johnson? There
should be money in it, and there will
be more money if a Federal capital
is planted at Yassberra, where its trade
will also go to Sydney, for there will
then be another batch of trains shoved
in between the cocky’s wheat and his one
seaport; so his chance of ever reaching:
it will become almost null and yoid.
Copy of letter sent to a Roman Catholic
convent by a dissatisfied parent:—
1909
15 October
Dear frend Sisters
I must tell you I am not pleased at
all of Nellas Leran lessons at school She is not improving
Her Schoolen reading riting spellen or figgers if you Have
no time to spair to Teacher Hir please Let me no 1 Might
give Time till chrisstime at yourchool if she not inproven
Her self in choolin I will afto Send Hir to Wair She Will
aftoLern as it is chooling She Needes in This World to
lern hir seif for hir futcher Life to Come.
I re main yours
Truley frene Mrs
WHEN DEAKIN TALKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Deakin talked delightfully to a delighted audience.
—Brisbane daily.
When Deakin talked
You heard the Parish Pump beat in his dulcet silver
tones,
You heard a gruesome rattling in the dry old Tory bones,
You saw a smile of Joy light up Che face of pallid Pat,
You saw the fist of Bullion fall with large approving pat;
You heard the feet of Adipose go tramping on the floor,
You caught the voice of Paunchy Purse ring out in joyous
roar,
You heard the loud applause of every well-fed knave and
clod,
You saw the little Pumpites how they hailed him as a
ifod;
And all the narrow-minded crew
That ever breath of bigot drew,
Rejoiced and raved exceedingly
When Deakin talked !
When Deakin talked
We felt a tide of verbiage rush o’er us like a flood,
We caught a gale of Hollow Cant that blew us where it
would,
The pettiness of midget men he decked it up in style,
He cast a gloss and glamor o’er the paltry Puerile,
The greatness of our Nationhood he cut and whittled
down
To suit the narrow notion-box of Tom of Turnip Town ;
And we who heard him years ago in all his fluent prime
Lay down the broad foundations that should make us for
all time,
We asked ourselves, in wonder grim,
Could such a speech outpour from him
Who pled so well the Nation’s cause
When once he talked.
When Deakin talked,
Each man among us who believed his Country’s cause
was great,
Each man who felt the present hour was big with life
and fate,
Each man who hoped some glorious day to see his shining .
land
Amid the queenly sisterhood of nations take a stand,
Was stirred within as by some pulse of passion deep and
strong,
To give that dulcet tongue the lie before the list’ning
throng;
To tell the silv’ry orator—“ Go, get thee quickly hence
And leave the gang of little men to count their Judas-
pence.
Aye, leave the Lilliputian crew
To weave their puny webs anew,
And cease to make Australia blush
When Deakin talks ! ”
Q 'SENSLAND.
F. BORN.


SCIENTIFIC OPINION.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F 1.C., F.C.S.
Public Analyst, of Sydney, adds his testi •
mony to that of other scientific men on the
purity of Sunlight Soap, He reports:—
“ Having analysed samples of Sunlight
Soap, purchased on open market, we have
pleasure in attesting to the especial purity
of Sunlight Soap. Sunlight Soap is evi-
dently manufactured under close chemical
supervision, for we find it to contain no un-
saponified fat, no free alkali, and to be a well
made soap. There is no adulteration what-
ever. Sunlight Soap has the healthy, clean
smell of refined fats and oils, and is a good
genuine laundry soap. Whilst it cannot
injure the finest fabric nor the skin, yet i<
will do its work thoroughly.”
No one can feel well and strong unless
their bowels move regularly. Chamberlain s
Tablets make the bowels act naturally.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
mui
5/6
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
Healthy Wool Underwear
The most hygienic material for next-to-skin wear this
season is wool. . . .
Our Underwear, so popular last season, is aprain in demand
this Winter, and gives exactly what is required in
this respect.
The material is not weighty, but, being closely and evenly
woven, gives a fine genial warmth.
They are highly-finished garments with fashioned seams,
which means there are no unpleasant ridges to
irritate one.
With every confidence we can recommend this Underwear
as exceptionally serviceable Winter Wear, at a
moderate price.
PR.ICE, either Singlet
or Pants,
5/6
Give Chest Measure for Shirt. Give Waist Measure for Pants.
State if Shirt is required with Long or Short Sleeves.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“Men’s Outfitters, ” 309-311 George Street, Sydney.
A SILENT FIGHT.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
The defenders made a silent fight as no cartridges had
been supplied to them. — Daily paper on Kitchener’s
review at Wellington (Maoriland).
We made a silent flyht.
The rifles were in our hands
On the rain-swept hill
Where Kitchener kitched.
Silent, oh, silent;
It seemed a fight of the dead,
Or the dumb, or the drunk,
As we waited the fierce onset
Of the dread invader.
We made a silent fight.
They crept in their thousands —
Horse and foot and cannon,
And blokes upon bikes,
Engineers, ambulances,
Colonels and captains,
And telephone wires.
Thousands on thousands,
Armed to the teeth they came,
Ready to slay with blank cartridge
There in the rain.
We made a silent fight.
Boldly we hid in the scrub,
Face down in the wetness,
Grasping our deadly rifles,
Trusting to luck that they never would see us
at all.
Silent, ah, silent!
Trusting, ah trusting !
Thousands on thousands they came,
And we hoped they never would see us.
And they didn’t.
We made a silent fight,
And we won.
Kitchener said it,
Yea, he kitched it,
He saw us,
lie saw them,
We won.
We made a silent fight.
They’ came in their thousands,
Fiercely they came
To storm the silent hill.
Hour after hour
They rushed on us headlong,
Wild with the joy of battle,
Hot for the fight;
And when Kitchener kitched it as being over,
We yet were unsmitten,
Our flank unturned,
Our ranks undiniinished,
Our glory undimmed.
For boldly we hid in the scrub,
And they never found us.
We made a silent fight,
MAORILAND. H- M. W.
“ W.W.” : I remember a daring safe rob-
bery in Sydney some years ago that provided a
moral lesson as well as five years’ penal servitude
to an accomplished criminal. He with two others
slipped into the Burdekin Hotel, Woolloomooloo,
one evening at the tea hour and slipped out again
with a safe which contained cash and jewels to a
total value of about £lBO. They had a cab wait-
ing, and drove to Moore Park, where the safe
was rifled. Then the pride of the master crafts-
man swelled, and he wrote upon the safe-maker’s
advertisement within : “This safe is not burglar-
proof. I can open it with the end of my sock.” A
short time afterwards he met with a criminal
he had known in Pentridge (Vic.), and they de-
cided to leave Sydney for Vancouver by the
Alameda. On the day of sailing, two local
“demons,” watching the departing passengers,
spotted the pair. They knew the friend of the
safe-breaker well, and hooked him on suspicion.
His companion was lumbered on general prin-
ciples, and he would probably have been
kicked out again had his passion for writing
not obtruded itself again. He dispatched a letter
to a friend. The document was opened by the
police, and the writing being compared with the
lead-pencil jest on the safe, no further difficulties
arose. It served him right. No man should
boast about his conquests over safes or women.
WAITING FOR THE CORPSE.
The Anti-Federal press hails Deakin and Cook as the
healers of all political ills. The States are aiding them
in vote-canvassing, and Wade has frequently and pub-
licly wished them every success in attaining office.
THE STATE FRIGHTS MAN : “ Well, doctors, I
wish you success, and — ahem —trust you'll”-
THE TWO : “ That's all right, old friend. You
have our promise to — er —do our best, of
course!”
DIPLOMATIC.
ELECTOR : “Are you in favor of beer in clubs?"
ELECTOR: “No.”
CANDIDATE: “Are you married ?”
CANDIDATE: “ Then I am.”
“ K.” : What a myth is the alleged
smartness of the city racing person ! Perpend.
An unknown man recently rented a small shop in
a back street of Melbourne city, and let it be
known that he was an “ agent for Tatt’s.” Soon
came a stream of callers, who left their five and
ten shillings regularly, nor asked for any receipt.
They all were satisfied with the assurance that
receipts “ weren’t safe.” This went on for seven
months. No one that patronised the alleged
“ Tatt.’s ” rep. got anything, not even a ticket.
Yet everybody seemed to be satisfied. A few
mornings since, as I was passing by, I Saw the
office shut and the office boy sitting on ttM step
like Patience on a monument smiling at beef.
Two would-be patrons were anxiously interview-
ing him ; but all that the office boy knew was that
the door was locked and that a month s pay was
owing to him. The office continues locked, and
the agent is holiday-making in Maoriland or
Africa or Peru or somewhere. It is pathetic. I
can hardly see what I have written for tears.
Who said the age of faith was gone?
The new Oaths Act is not answering too
well in England, and people are going back to the
old insanitary practice of kissing the Book. The
way the Courts interpret the Act makes everyone
who swears in the new fashion hold
the Bible aloft while repeating the
words of the oath. That, it is found,
takes a lot of time, and, what is
worse, makes many people think
thev look foolish. When a Grand
Jury recently started to take the,
oath in London, the foreman elected
to do if in the new way. His atti-
tude—arm upraised, Bible wobbling
in the atmosphere, and lips babbling
—-created such an effect that the rest
of the jurymen asked the Judge to
let them be sworn in the old manner ;
and though that was quite as ridicu-
lous, nobody took any notice. What
is now proposed is that jurors and
witnesses in a case shall be sworn
en bloc, the clerk of court will gabble
the words, and at the finish the
persons concerned will raise their
right hands and exclaim, “ I cuss.
This will save time, though it is sug-
gestive of the American proposal
that the President at a levee should
say “I shake,” and thereupon all
the callers should consider themselves shaken
hands with.
•* * *
The Melbourne police have gob another
case of probable murder on their hands, and at
time of writing it looks likely to end in the usual
open verdict. A decent citizen, a bachelor
named John Coate, was found lying on a rock-
bordered lawn in East Melbourne with his skull
fractured. A constable took him to Melbourne
Hospital and he died there. If he didn t trip
over the rockery in the dark and break his skull
in the fall, the man was presumably assaulted and
placed where he was found. One blow would
h ive done the business ; but the mystery of who
did it, if it was done, doesn’t seem to be worrying
the police. The case was presented to the
coroner in so casua4 a way he cut it short and
Ordered an adjournment for further investigation.
The Paddock-Marshal gallops in with his
despatch :
Ttie fearful and incurable clumsiness of the volunteer
received a splendid advertisement by the Easier Camp
held at Liverpool (N.S.W.). What the daily paper re-
spectfully calls the “operations” started early on In-
digestion Friday, and thenceforward the bush was full of
confused armed men, shrill whistling, aimless shooting,
and madly-galloping staff-officers trying to restore some
semblance of sanity to the proceedings. The disorder and
slackness were apparent from the jump. Just before the
enemy and the muddled defenders got properly into holts
,and the first few scattered shots had rung out, an officer
of the Instructional Staff found one of the defenders’ ad-
vance guards leaning against a tree, and asked him if he
had .-anything to report. The advance guardsman at
first replied “No” ; but, on being urged to stir up Ins
memory a bit, said, in a dreary, tired way, that he had
heard some shooting going on somewhere about. The
bursting Instructional man thereupon jabbed his
unoffending steed with his spurs and clattered off
to report it himself. When the “ troops ” really warmed
up to the explosive farce, the original volunteer’s original
methods of warfare were revealed to a. maddened and
shame-faced staff. Advance guards wdthin 150yds. of the
rfnemy were found, with the enthusiastic approval of
.their section commanders, to be still pumping away good
ammunition with their sights fixed at 200yds. Also,
when they rushed forward to cover, they did it
in nice, compact lumps; and when they sank
down to fire, they placed themselves one before the
other, or, in other words, arranged themselves so that
the front rank man would have a good chance of being
shot by his mate behind. During the floundering about
the attacking and defending force each lost a whole com-
pany through the communications being broken. These
men wandered about looking for home and mother in the
midst of battle ; if the real thing had been going on
they would probably have been shot to bits by their
own crowd. One commanding officer with his hands
full of plans was left for a few minutes by the
staff guide whilst he galloped out to tell some
scouts that they were getting too far to the right. The
commanding officer, immediately he was left alone, took
the wrong track and got two miles out of his course. The
Governor-General’s party was on hand when the bugle
wailed three G’s as a sign for the absent force to bound
out from where they, weren’t concealed and deliver
the attack ; but, of course, there wasn’t as
much response to the summons as could have
been got from a field of turnips. Empty trenches
suffered severely during the “ operations,” the
volunteers being particularly ferocious when in
front of a position which had been abandoned by the
enemy. Some of the imitation soldiers even seem to be
doubtful as to which is the dangerous end of a rifle ;
for Major Heritage, whilst reviewing the day’s muddling,
remarked that various recruits were absolutely reck-
less in the handling of their weapons. The same officer
also commented severely on the lack of interest displayed
by some of the officers, A willing incapable is bearable
to a certain limited extent; but an incapable who doesn't
even pretend to be interested is insupportable. The
awful inefficiency of the whole volunteer organisation, as
shown in this camp, should be the last bullet in the
wooden head of the fancy-dress soldier,
A man who made a mess of things is lying
in a Melbourne morgue. His name used to be
Crabtree; and when the world discovered him he
was lying in a dismantled condition among the
ruins of four shops. He seems to have spent
much of his time lately in removing his grocer s
stock and furniture to localities where it has since
been discovered ; then, having deported his wife
and family, he distributed quantities of benzine,
naphtha and methylated spirits over certain
shavings he had introduced into his premises—all
with a view to ultimately collecting £OOO of
tire insurance. Unfortunately for him, instead
of lighting the bonfire there and then, he allowed
the fumes to rise and mix with the
air until, combined in the proper pro-
portions, they reached a lighted lamp. The
neighbors then discovered what a bombardment
is like. His own and three adjacent shops and
dwellings came toppling about his ears, while
people, pyjamas, bricks, windows, groceries, iron
verandah posts, and miscellaneous chattels were
mixed in wild confusion. By good fortune no
one was killed except Crabtree; but the escapes,
especially of children, were marvellous. For
hundreds of yards around windows were smashed,
and bars of soap and pounds of sundries hurtled
through the atmosphere. When the catastrophe
had settled down, the cause of it was dug out of
the ruins and taken away to be mended ; but the
doctors found the job beyond them.
* * * *
The Coroner’s finding on the Beaufort
(Vic.) railway smash, to the effect that various
persons were more or less to blame, but that the
dead driver was chiefly responsible, falls far short
of the demands of the case. It is admitted that
the front engine had been in a defective state for
days, and that its brakes were useless, that
various persons who should have put it in order
did not do so, and that the whole system seems to
be run at high pressure without any margin for
accidents or duplication. But the people respon-
sible for this muddle don’t get the heaviest brick ;
that missile is reserved for the man who took the
engine out in its decayed condition. Yet if
he had refused to take it out there is no
evidence to show that he wouldn’t have been
sacked for insubordination. On the same prin-
ciple when a coroner or a Judge has a rotten
law to administer, and the law breaks down,
it’s the coroner’s fault, or the Judges. Also the
Coroner referred to the infamous double-headed
trains, against which drivers have protested from
time to time. He admitted that their safety was
questioned, but remarked that so far the driveis
and their advisers had put forward no. adequate
alternative for such means of dealing with traffic.
Apparently Mr. Murphy thinks the management
of the system lies with the drivers, and not with
the Commissioners.
A DISTURBER OF THE PEACE.
A pocket wireless telegraphic apparatus, which enables
the carrier to be called from a central wireless station, has
been successfully experimented with in Berlin.— News
Item.
It is well to remember when purchasing a pocket
wireless machine that one’s wife is liable to call at
most exasperating moments.
Kitchener has left M.L., and M.L. is
chafed on its dignity at the older of his going.
After handing in his official report the Big Soldier
went off for a sort of rest-cure, and was lost to
public view. But that was nothing. Old Public
just padded along quietly and said he’d see
Kitch. before he (K.) left the country. He d_do
the thing in style, regardless of expense. The
kids would have a holiday, and the Union Jack
would wave at the head of the procession.
Then one afternoon, when Old Public was at graft,
the War Lordstrolled slowly aboard the steamer for
Tahiti, amid the respectful silence of two wharf
lumpers and an old trolly horse. And when Old
Public- heard about it his language sounded like a
foundry falling down a great declivity.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT (made in England.)
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOL^MEDaL” I ”'' at th ®
“NATIONAL " ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
J—— Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
LANCASHIRE BOILERS.
We have Two Magnificent Lancashire Boilers
by Thompson & Co., of Castlemaine, 26ft. x
7ft. Cin.,for 1501 b. working pressure, 10 Galloway
tubes, Hopkinson’s mountings. In practically
new order. Also Winding Engines, Air Com-
pressors, etc.
BficTs
Sr^«eo
)“CAMELHAIR”
BELTING
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Minins purposes. Sole Agents,
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE,BALLARAT &BENDiCO .
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne)
Invest-
ment
Ordinary Fluetu-
. Re- ation
veo., Fronts. Dividends. serves. Reserve.
1899.. £2299 4 per cent. =£2953 £849
1900.. 1066 1J 1107 808 £Bl9
1901.. 2722 Si „ ” 2584 946 306
1902.. 2886 4 „ ~ 2953 879 1006
1903.. 2848 4 „ „ 2053 774 314
1904.. 3255 4 „ ~ 2953 1076 301
1905.. 3427 4J „ ~ 3322 1181 332
1906.. 3874 5 „ ~ 3691 1364 552
1907.. 4931 5 „ „ 3691 2604 630
1908.. 5737 5 „ „ 3691 4650 602
1909.. 4804 5 „ „ 3691 5763 598
1910.. 4275 5J „ „ 4060 5978 628
Twelve months ago the chairman said they had nearly
been game to pay an extra 1 per cent., but not quite ;
and, though the first half of this year passed with the
usual 5 per cent., the little bit extra arrived in the second
half. . lhe-co. is now 25 years old, and it has never hung
anything very glittering in front of the shareholders. It
is really three cos. in one—the Colonial Permanent
Trustee Co., the Australasian Natives’ Trustee Co.,
and the Union Trustees, Executors, and Ad-
ministrators’ Co.—the unification being effected in
1890, whereupon, by the way, Alfred Deakin took a
seat on the Board in token of the fact that he reckoned
unification a very good thing. In 1892-3 the co. thought
it could pay a 6 per cent. div. ; but it soon found that it
had the usual lot of shrinkages to provide for, and there-
after for some years divs. were almost too small to be
seen with the naked eye. But, though this possibly
worried some clients, it shouldn’t have done anything of
the kind ; for the small rate of div. was reallv the result
of the comparatively big capital (£73,822), and obviously
the bigger the capital the better the clients’ securit3'.
The moral is that it is not wise to look exclusively at the
rate of div. that a trustee co. pays ; it may be paying a
big div. only because it hasn't got much to pay it on.
And besides having a comparatively big capital "this co.
has it invested in assets and securities which don’t yield
a high rate of interest. Of the capital and reserves
£32,288 is in Government stock, £14,334 in deposits and
cash, and £12,992 net in freehold. (The Collins-street
property stands in the books at £27,083, which it cost;
but there is a mortgage of £14,091 on it.) These three
items account for £59,614 ; the balance is mainly out on
mortgage (including £1533 of foreclosed properties) and
in advances to clients. Ten years ago the foreclosed pro-
perties totalled £6562; hence good progress has been
made in getting rid of the dead horse, either by sales or
by writing down book-values, and there’s only a very
small foal left. Interest and rents last year brought in
£3376, enough to pay 4J per cent, on the capital; and
the other 1 per cent, certainly isn’t very much
to expect the business to pay. The accounts
don’t state the value of the estates in hand,
but three years ago the chairman said it was
£2,061,000 ; and if the co. only makes an annual half a
crown per cent, of the capital value it would amount to
£2576 a year, which is just over 3£ per cent, on the
capital. As a matter of fact, however, the co. has
apparently so far earned a good deal less than that from
the business, which is carried on in Queensland as well
as Victoria. Last year, the commissions were £8464 and
the expenses (including rent) £7565, or a surplus of only
£899; and if £5OO of the expenses were incurred in
managing the co.’s assets, it would only leave £1399 as
the profit from the trustee business—a small return for a
big service. What may console the shareholders is that
the present capital will be ample protection for clients
when the business is twice as great and the profits from
that source are more than doubled.
The Squatting Investment Co. (Melbourne)
Added to Re-
Dec., Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1899 .. £38,092 2J p.c. = £7,300 £2B 877
1900 .. 27,060 Nil 1,817
„ Deficit.
1901 .. 11,967 Nil 10,150
Profit.
1902 .. 3,847 Nil £3,847 6,303
Reserves
1903 .. 15,023 2£p.c.= 7,300 7,723 1,420
1904 .. 22,329 5 „ „ 14,600 7,729 9,149
1905 .. 19,605 5 ~ ~ 14,600 5,005 14 154
1906 .. 21,801 5 „ „ 14,600 7,201 21,355
1907 .. 19,561 5 ~ ~ 14,600 4,961 26,316
Loss.
1908 .. 8,816 4& ~ ~ 12,167 5,333
Profit.
1909 .. 12,069 3i „ „ 9,733 2,336 7,669
This is the property on the Queensland-N.S. W. border in
which Simon Fraser has a little of his savings, and of
whose directors he is chairman. There are two holdings,
Thurulgoona and Bundaleer, and upon neither of them
does any man know when it will rain. In the ’eighties,
when the co. bought, everything in the garden was lovely.
But it didn’t stay so ; and the co. began to see rabbits in
its sleep. After it had got used to rabbits wandering
through its dreams, drought arrived ; and that was
worse, for the co. owed £250,000 of the purchase money,
and the property wasn’t earning the interest. However,
by frequently letting dividends slide altogether, and by
keeping them moderate in even the good seasons, and
by calling up another £lOO,OOO, the debt has been pretty
well got rid of; the total liabilities on Dec. 31 were
£38,747, and against that, besides property and stock,
there was £19,473 of last season’s wool on hand.
That wool on hand means something else too.
It means that the year’s profit is a good deal
of a guess. In 1908, for instance, the table shows
a loss of £BBl6. But that- was partly because the pre-
vious year’s wool clip had been over-estimated by £2126,
which amount had, therefore, to be deducted from the
'OB profits. Further, the value of the 1908 clip was
tinder-valued to the extent of £1327, and that makes this
year’s results look better than they really are. (Next
year, of course, it may turn out that this year’s clip has
been under-estimated too.) Still, the general result is the
same—it is merely a case of one year occasionally looking
better at the expense of the next year. Varving amounts
are also written off improvements, etc. This shows the
totals for some years past:—
1902.. ..£10,621 1906 .. ..£11,158
1903 .. .. 679 1907 .. .. 12,409
1904 .. .. 5,303 1908 .. .. 6,357
1905 .. .. 4,805 1909 .. .. 17,654
Add these amounts to the net profits shown above, and
you get the gross profits. Ten years’ progress is further
shown hereunder
1899. 1909.
Liabilities £63,902 £38,747
Assets other than stations .. 97,611 107,987
Surplus .. £33,709 £69,240
That is an improvement of' £35,531 in the 10 years, in
spite of the very heavy losses in 1900-1. This time 10
years ago the shares (£3 paid, 10s. callable) were worth
20s. 6d.; in the beginning of 1902 they were down to 55.;
now they stand at 335. And even though it is an erratic
business, and is pretty certain to have its bad times
again, ti)e improvement in the last eight years is almost
enough t/o iiiake chairman Simon Fraser sometimes take
a cheerful view of even the Scarlet Lady at Rome. ;
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New Zealand
Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. _ _ ±30,593
1902 ( £2 > 747 7 p.c. = ±13,549 £2554 17,237
l Premiums on shares issued .. £1527 18,764
1903 ■! 14 ' 941 7 p.C. = 13,649 1292 20,056
l Premiums on shares issued .. 209 20,265
1904 / 16 - 479 7 P- e - 13,083 2000 796 21,061
\ Premiums on shares issued .. 17 21,078
1905.. 15,466 7 p.c. = 13,686 1780 22,858
1906 ( 16,250 7„ „ 13,751 2499 25,357
I Premiums on shares issued .. 174 25,531
C Depreciation account trans-
-1907.. -j ferred to general reserves .. 7851 33,382
v. 18,652 7 p.c. = 14,000 3520 1132 34,514
1908.. 17,816 7 „ „ 14,000 1600 2216 36,730
1909.. 16,962 7 „ „ 14,000 1000 1962 38,692
1910.. 16,707 7,, „ 14,000 1336 1371 40,063
The reserves consist of a general fund, £30,000 ; a reserve
on customers’ accounts (included in the foregoing with
some doubt), £2657 ; fire insurance fund, £Bl5 ; and un-
appropriated profit, £6591. The reserve on customers’
accounts, apparently a provision for bad debts before
they turn up, has been drawn on to the extent of £336. The
profits since 1907 (inclusive)show that Maoriland has been
gradually finding its true level after the fictitious pros-
perity caused by the borrowing boom ; and the movement
has probably still some distance to go, for the borrowing
hasn’t quite stopped 3'et. This co., possibly scenting
trouble, has been putting itself into a safer position
during the year. It had acquired a considerable over-
by reducing the heavy stocks and the book debts,
this liability has been cleared off altogether, and others
have been reduced. The movements are shown in detail
hereunder:—
_ . , 1902. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital.. ..£194,102 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Overdraft 15 455 _
Other liabilities 36,507 90,670 75,774 59,442
Stock .. .. 146,247 175,486 181,347 149J.22
factories, etc. 76,108 102,737 103,005 103,193
Book debts .. 45,201 57,823 56,829 53,513
Cash, etc. .. 3,432 3,274 —, 4,373
111 spite of the steady fall in profits there is still a com-
fortable margin for writing-off and reserves after paying
the 7 per cent. div. Of course, a great deal depends on
the valuation of the stock. 111 £149,622 worth of goods
of the class dealt in by this co. there is room for some
difference of opinion ; and the co. found itself in trouble
in one year a while ago through having to write down a
previously over-valued stock. There is always that risk
in an investment of this kind. But while a management
may inflate profits for a few years by over-valuing goods
on hand, it may also put a bit up its sleeve, if it is that
sort of management, by cutting values fine. Hence the
value of knowing what sort of management a co. like this
has. All that can be said here on that point is that the
co. has a long record of very even dividends; and a
racketty Board of directors doesn’t usually produce
uniform results like that.
* * * *
The City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane): —
Ord. Pref. Total Re-
Profits. Div. Div. Div. serves.
July, 1908 .. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. £2097 £15,606
Jan., 1909.. £7975 8£ ~ 6,, 3011 20 570
July, 1909.. 7848 9 „ 6 „ 3218 25 200
Jan., 1910.. 9157 10J ~ 6,, 3909 30,448
This co. has been running five years ; before that the
business was carried on by the Brisbane Electric Supply
00. The purchase price was £35,257 exclusive of what
was paid for plant, mains, etc. If, as seems likely, there
wasn t much, if anything, besides “plant, mains, etc. ”
to hand over, this £35,257 was really for goodwill.
The item still stands in the balance-sheet as “ pur-
chase account, £35,257.” If this is regarded as a
paper asset, * then the reserves don’t exist, and
assets of the sort you can touch or taste
are still £4809 short of the capital. In fact, the deficit is
probably more than that, because £24,097 in the total of
£30,448 stands to the credit of a renewal, replacement
and contingency account. That is to say, unless assets
have been written .down (and there is no sign of that), the
bulk of what are shown as reserves are a mere set off
against wear and tear. This shows how the profit men-
tioned above is made up :
Added to Added to Other
Renewal Account. Sinking Fund. Profit
Jan., 1909 .. £3892 £5OO £3583
July, 1909 .. 4511 500 2837
Jan., 1910 .. 4051 500 4006
The “ other profit ” includes about £l5O a half-year put
by for an accident insurance fund. If this “ other pro-
fit ” is really all the true profit there is, the position isn’t
so splendid as the table suggests. For the past two years
it would total £13,402, or an average of £6701 a year.
The 6 per cent. pref. capital amounts to £20,000, calling
for £12,000 a year; thus there has remained for the
ordinary shares £5501 a year. The average ordinary
capital has been about £58,000 ; so, if the amounts put
aside for the sinking fund and the renewal and con-
tingency fund are not true profits, the real profit left for
the ordinary shares in the past two years has averaged
9J per cent, per annum, or 1 per cent, less than the
present div. It is true that of the present div. 2 per
cent, per annum is called a bonus ; and possibly this
means, that it isn’t, to be regarded as a permanent tiling.
The question remains, though, whether these
funds are not a convenient cupboard for stuffing away
surplus profits. As shown just now, £9562 was pushed
into the renewal and contingency fund last year ; and
the whole of the plant, machinery, buildings and stocks
were valued at under £62,000. Tne £9562 would, there-
fore, mean writing off 15 per cent, per annum. It looks
extremely liberal. As to the sinking fund, the co.’s
business is built on certain orders-in-council, w'hich run
out in 1940, and the sinking fund of £lOOO a year is
to wipe out the goodwill item (“ Purchase account”)
some time in that year. It does not necessarily follow
that the co. will be told to get out in 1940; if the in-
terested councils 30 years hence are asleep’ under the
influence of sedatives or otherwise, the co. will go on
lor another 10 years, and then for another 10, and so on. If
the undertaking is resumed, market value must be paid
for all lands and works suitable to and used in the busi-
ness. The so-called sinking fund isn’t, however, a real
sinking fund; apparently it isn’t invested separately; and
even if it were, the interest-earnings are not added’to it!
If they were it would not be necessary to put by £lOOO a
year to wipe out £31,500 in 30 years ; invested at 4 per
cent., £570 would do it. Or £lOOO a year would
do it in less than 21 years. Or if the co. goes
on putting by £lOOO a year on top of the present £3500
and continues it for the next 12 years, and in the last of
those years throw's in an extra £l5OO for luck, and after
those 12 years merely puts bj; the whole £17,000 some-
where where it will earn 4 per cent., the co. need do no
more ; compound interest would do the rest in a shade
over 18 years—by the end of the (possibly) fatal 1940
From all of this it is pretty certain that - , one way and
another, the co. is putting by more than is absolutely
necessary ; yet it may be a wise policy in case of acci-
dents, which are things that are rather liable to happen
to Brisbane. r
The Sydney Cyclorama Co. (Sydney)
„ . Written To Re- Re-
5S’,. p ss?- “'ir 1 ' °* 7.’,r •sa
f“" 2“ ™ - 11* 5300
1901 .. 371 Nil 371 5671
1902 .. 630 Nil £253 377 6048
1903 - 388 Nil - 388 6436
Loss.
1904 " p Nil 6379
Profit.
1905 .. 3 Nil 3 cqo<>
1906 .. 209 Nil 5648 - 943
1907 .. 882 5 p.c. = £lO4O _
1908 .. 927 5 „ „ 1040 - _
1909 .. 925 5 „ „ 1040 - _ 557
This co. is having a sort of second time on earth. It was
formed to exploit the eyclorama-picture craze ■ but brief
life was the portion of that craze, and so, after’paying 15
per cent, within a few months, the co. strug"-led°out
another div. of 2J per cent., and then wasn’t heard from
for 18 years. Fortunately the co. had put its money into
a freehold; and when the ice-skating craze arrived
two or three years ago another co. was formed
to lease the old cyclorama premises with right
of purchase. Probably had the new co. to rely
on ice-skating it would have been in a much worse
position than the Cyclorama Co. used to be ; but the
moving-picture epidemic arrived, and in the summer
when Krmyntrude isn’t cutting figure eights w'ith Gussie,
Hemina is having a bob’s worth of pictures with Bill. So
this co. gets its £lOOO a year rent regularly, and that is
all but 5 per cent, on the capital. There are a few
pounds to pay for management; so that, as the 5 per
cent, dividend calls for £lO4O, there will have to be a
leap year every eight or 10 years, when the dividend will
have to be jumped. The lease is for 20 years, with a
right of purchase within five years from 1906 at £20,000.
« * * *
Castlemaine Woollen Co. (Vie.): —
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. 1 Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1902 .. 5 p.c. = £l3OO £2034
1903.. £2214 4 „ „ 1078 £4OO £736 2770
£lB9O of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 880
1904 .. 2155 4 p.c. = 1156 750 249 1129
1905.. 1320 3 „ „ 900 420 1549
1906.. 1280 3 „ „ 900 380 1929
1907 .. 2008 4 „ „ 1200 716 92 2021
1908 .. 3781 5 „ „ 1500 1500 781 2802
1909.. 5812 5 „ „ 1500 1610 2702 5504
Dec.,
1909.. 1791 298 1493 6997
Dividends (if any) are paid after the June balance. As
usual, at this time of year liabilities are fairly large—
£lB,6s7, including £4OOO of debentures. The co. is 35
years old, and it has not even yet become one of the
“ bloated manufacturers ” that the foreign-traders talk
about. The biggest dividend it ever achieved—in the
last 20 years, at any rate—was 7£ per cent. ; and it only
managed that much once. And naturally, when it sees
the leaders of the Protectionist party fusing with Free-
traders, it has every right to despair of getting increased
Protection supposing it should want more—and on some
lines it certainly will want more at some time or other.
* » * *
Manly Gaslight and Coke Co. (N.S. W.)
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1902 £1497 7 per cent. = £lO5O £4OO £47 £285
1903 1445 7J „ „ 1125 400 - 205
1904 1830 8 „ ~1200 400 230 435
1905 2093 8 ~ ~ 1200 650 243 678
£l2OO dropped into Reserves without remark 1878
1906 1638 9 percent. = 1498 140 2018
1907 1969 9 „ ~ 1639 330 2348
1908 2454 9J „ ~1964 490 2838
1909 2273 10 „ „ 2566 - 2545
This is another of those cos. which take advantage of the
N.S. W. law, and give very little information that is worth
having. On their own showing the directors are a rather
reckless lot, who put up the dividend this year in the
face of a fall in revenue, and though they had to go to the
poor little reserves to make up the last payment. But it
is quite possible that the directors are not such daredevils
after all. The profit and loss account merely says that
the revenue was so much, less so much for “manufacture
and distribution, rents, rates and taxes, renewals, light-
ing, depreciation, management, etc. ” ; and when you
don’t know what “depreciation ” and “ renewals” stand
for, not to mention “ etc.,” you don’t know much about
the co.’s history. Here, however, are a few comparisons:—
1902. 1908. 1909.
Capital .. £15,000 £22,500 £28,750
Liabilities .. .. 2,390 2,196 8,953
Fixed assets .. .. 15,848 22,852 35,019
Other assets .. .. 2,753 5,747 1 985
Sales 4,417 ' 8,624 10,115
The fixed assets (plant, land, buildings, mains, etc.)
earned 27’9 per cent, gross of their book value in 1902;
in 1908 they earned 377 per cent. Last year large addi-’
tions were in progress, so the comparison can’t be carried
further. It is plain, however, that the business still
increases very rapidly—has more than doubled in seven
years. Further, it is clear that, in proportion to book
value, the assets earn more revenue now; but whether
that is due to extensions having been paid for out of
revenue, and therefore not added to the book value, or
whether it is due to population squatting down in greater
numbers along the company’s gas mains, or whether it is
due to some of both, the accounts don’t allow us to say.
And that, no doubt, is what the accounts are for. The
less they talk the less chance there is of waking the devil
of municipal competition.
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
June, 1903.. £1525 6 p.c. = £lll7 £407 £1 £2670
Dec., 1903.. 1769 5 ~ ~ 1117 242 410 3080
June, 1904.. 1831 6 „ ~ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904.. 2097 6 ~ „ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905.. 2172 6 ~ ~ 1340 275 557 4190
Dec., 1905.. 2428 6 ~ ~ 1340 269 819 5009
June, 1906.. 2285 6 „ „ 1340 386 559 5568
Dec., 1906.. 2328 6 „ „ 1340 439 549 6117
June, 1907.. 2183 6 „ ~ 1340 408 435 6552
Dec., 1907.. 2072 6 „ „ 1377 455 240 6792
June, 1908.. 1924 6,, ~ 1490 810 '64^6
Dec., 1908.. 1962 6 ~ ~ 1490 807 . 6081
June, 1909.. 2465 6 ~ ~ 1490 968 7 6088
Dec., 1909., 2633 6 ~ ~ 1490 933 * 210 -6298
Profits are shown gross, without deduction for wear and
tear and decay of plant. The amounts shown as written
off have been actually spent on repairs and replacements.
But there is in addition some general decay, only to be
met by special renewals from time to time ; and nothing
is deducted on account of that depreciation. It is
true that the amount spent in this way during
the last year has been unusually large ;‘ so some
special renewals may have been recently carried out.
The business has increased fast. In June-December
1901, the gas sales net were £2972 ; in the past half-year
£5799—a1l but double. The fixed investment certffnly is
a little larger; for capital has been increased from
£44,667 to £49,665 and liabilities from £224 to £8561, and
this money has gone mostly into plant. Still that doesn’t
account wholly for the improvement; because revenue is
now equal to 23’4 per cent, per annum of the fixed in-
vestment (plant, buildings, mains, etc.), while in 1901 it
was only 15’4 per cent. The earnings are still nothing
out of the way, though, and the reserves are poor ; and
in view’ of that, as well as of the steadily-increasing over-
draft, no higher dividend should be thought of. As a
matter of fact, the co. was in too much of a hurry to put
it up to 6 per cent.
* * * *
The Wellington Gas Go. (M.L.)
Net To
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves
1904.. 10 p.c. =£12,349 £34 871
1905.. £29,242 10 „ „ 12,457 £16,785 51,’656
1906.. 18,788 10 ~ ~ 12,457 6,331 57,987
1907.. 26,268 10 „,, 12,457 13,811 71,798
Premiums on new shares .. 2,099 73’897
1908.. 14,299 10 p.c. = 12,561 1,738 75,’635
Premiums on new shares .. 8,807 84 442
1909.. 17,151 10 p.c. = 14,797 2,354 86’,796
A good deal of capital has been got in during the vear
and the period for which it carries dividend is uncertain ’;
therefore some of the last line is approximate only. The’
figures relating to profits in the table are very uneven
because large sums drop into the accounts without men-
tioning where they come from. Sometimes they drop in
on one side and sometimes on the other. This shows
the movements in more detail:—
1904. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Sales and other income.. £58,925 £80,678 £85,542 £B3 709
Manufacture, repairs
and all charges .. 45,764 54,410 71,243 66 558
£13,161 £26,268 £14,299 £17,151
Down to 1907 the accounts did not show what amounts
were written off ; in the last two years this has been
done. Thus the £71,243 expenses for 1‘..)8 include £2906
written off plant, besides £6270 “ expended out of~ re-
venue on extensions, repairs and maintenance.’’ In
the past year £l5OO has been spent on renewals of
retorts, and £1716 is shown as “ written off nUrw
and other accounts.” The directors’ p “J*! 4
that “£6144 has been expended out of revenue in
repairs and renewals of plant” (not “and extensions”
this time), and £3193 has been written off for deprecia
tion and interest on works during time of const™,“idnn”
Apparently, however, this £3193 inchidesthe“e
already mentioned. The great increase in outgoing
compared with 1907 is therefore evidently due larrewS
recent expenditure in replacements and probablv al™
extensions. Some of it is also no doubt due to the mak
in S of gas connections and of house, and shop services at a
loss. Electric light installations cost less fand to coni
pete with that, this co. has nowadays to put in services
at under cost. (The municipality runs the electric-
lighting.) In proportion to the property, plant mains
etc., charged to capital account, there has been no striking
increase in earnings. In 1904 £211,391 earned £5B
or just under 28 per cent.; and taking the average
amount sunk in the same class of assets last year
at £305,000, the earnings (£83,709) were still under 28
per cent. From this it seems either that nothing much
in the way of extensions has been paid for out of profits
or that the new works charged up to capital haven’t
been as productive as the old lot. The total amount of
share premiums received is now hidden ; in the present
accounts it figures as £10,906, but as a matter of fact
£12,306 or more of premiums was in 1905 cut up among
the other reserves, so that the fine reserves haven’t all
been built up out of undivided profits. The present
capital is £163,735 ; there are 7500 shares fully paid to
£lO, 10,000 paid to £6 155., and 6078 paid to £3 10s 6d
The last lot were issued at the end of 1908 “at a
premium of not less than £5 per share”; so there is
a good deal more premium capital to come in yet when
the share capital is called up. Besides the share capital
the co. owes £57,900 on debentures, £33,168 to depositors
(shareholders) and about £4700 otherwise. The reserves
have grown rapidly; but the growth is deceptive—as
mentioned just now it hasn’t all come from surplus
profits. In fact, the surplus profits for the past two years
combined amount to only £4092. The co. has, however
been lately paying interest on works under construction’
so the future should be a little better than that. At
present it looks as though the 10 per cent, can be earned
comfortably, but that nothing very large is being stuffed
away.
• * * *
The Farmers and Dairymen’s Milk Co
(N.S.W.): —
Unex-
plained Total
Addi- Added
Trading tions to to Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves, serves.
1900.. £667 Nil £516 £llB3 £4,237
1901.. 874 Nil 656 1530 5,767
1902.. 396 Nil 800 1196 6,963
1903.. 1038 10 p.c. = £163 403 1278 8,241
1904.. 1025 10 „ ~ 146 612 1491 9,73?
Taken from
. Reserves
without
Explanation.
1905.. 312 10 p.c. = 145 90 77 9,809
Added to
Reserves
without
Explanation.
1906.. 727 10 p.c. = 142 897 1482 11,291
1907.. 440 10 „ ~ 142 1277 1575 12,866
1908.. 596 10 „ ~ 139 856 1310 14,179
1909.. 704 10 „ ~ 140 1500 2064 16,243
The accounts of this co. are presented in a very unsatis-
factory form ; and that there is something that badly
\yants explanation is pretty clear from the fact that, in
spite of a 10 per cent. div. and an alleged profit of 40 per
cent, or more, there have been frequent forfeitures of
capital during the past six years. While all the live
capital that remains is now £1403, reserves nomi-
nally amount to £16,243, of which £8253 is
branded “ reserve ” and the balance undivided
profit. But, as indicated above, there is no telling
what the reserve consists of. It may be merely the accumu-
lated amount written off to cover wear and tear, and may
therefore not be really a reserve at all. The chances are
that some of it is not. As at December, 1904, build-
ings and plant stoo.d in the balance-sheet at £17,934 ; the
item is now £26,505. The revenue from trading in 1904
was £9599 ;in 1909 it was £9492. If, therefore, buildings
and plant have been really added to, they have produced
nevertheless a smaller revenue. The chances are
that the item is being built up by adding
to capital account money spent on replace-
ments, renewals and probably repairs. If that
is so, the published accounts are valueless from the
investor’s point of view. Anyway, the law which allows
of such unsatisfactory documents being issued by a
public co.—and especially by a public co. which has £12*917
of liabilities—wants looking at hard and often. In fact,
it wants more than a mere look.
* * » * *
Warwick Butter and Dairying Co. (Queens-
land), which began with a deficit of £329, preliminary
exes. :
Dividend and Bonus Written De-
June, Loss. Dividend Tax. to Clients. Off. ficit.
1903.. £lOl Nil £430
,1904.. ,273 Nil 703
Profit.
'X9O5':: ‘ ’ 73 Nil _ 630
1 Reserves
1906.. , 2399 .. 8 per cent.’=£233 £546 £823 167
1907.. 1830 8 ~ „ 376 898 723
~ Forfeited capital, £24.. .. 747
1908;. ( 2305 8 per cent. = 547 670 769 1066
1909.. 2381 6 „ „ 442 578 806 1621
Dec.,
1909.. 1953 _ 422 3152
Dividend and bonus distributions are madd after the
June balance. With one exception, the last is the most
profitable half-year the co. has so far had. A cheese fac-
tory has lately been erected ; there hds been a prelim-
inary outlay of £295 on that account which is included
among the assets; but whether that is merely a paper
asset isn’t yet clear. If it is, it ought to be wiped out by
an appropriation of profits as soori as possible. Other-
wise the position appears to be satisfactory.
* * » «
Ballina Co-operative Produce Co. (N.S.W.):
Suppliers’ Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves.
1903.. £1503 5 p.c. =£l3l £428 £437 £1156
1904.. ,827 5 ~ „ 148 229 465 1141
1905.. 1549 7% ~ ~ 242 425 547 1476
1906.. 1269 5 „ „ 163 258 531 1793
1907.. 913 5 „ „ 170 810 1726
1908.. 1814 5 ~ ~ 188 214 598 2540
1909.. 1275 5 „ „ 193 563 3059
This co. divides its attention between butter and pork,
and has a turnover of between £BO,OOO and £90,000 a
year. It distributes no bonus this year, which is merely
another way of saving that it has been paying the utmost
prices to the suppliers in the first place. Besides the
reserves shown above, the co. has a small employees’
insurance fund, provided out of revenue. The position
is sound, provided book debts are good and the stock is
not over-valued; and there is no reason to suspect
either.
* 0 * *
The Casino Co-operative Dairy Co. (N.S.W.)
shows a net profit for the half-year of £1124 ; but that
includes the balance of £699 from the full season’s export
account. This profit turns a debit into a profit and loss
credit balance of £571, which is wisely carried forward.
There are no other reserves; and reserves are badly
needed by a co. which carries on an export trade in a
staple like butter, whose price is subject to sudden
spasms. Plant depreciation appears to be well pro-
vided for.
* * * *
London and Brisbane holders of old deposits
with the A.J.S. Bank approved of the transfer to the
Australian Bank of Commerce just as emphatically as
those of Sydney had done ; so the whole business of re-
construction may be regarded as now settled, apart from
some formal matters.
* * * *
Four years ago Stannary Hills (Q.) had a share
capital of £458,150 ; but as it was obvious that the mine


Will You Try
No use thinking that because cast-
iron pipes have been used for
many years there cannot be any-
thing better.
MANNESMANN
Weldless Steel Pipes
are “ Dreadnoughts ” in the way
of pipes, for they have the ad-
vantage on all points, and can
PROVE THEIR SUPERIORITY.
Take the trouble to inquire ; then
you will see that in any place
where pipes are needed, Mannes-
mann are what you want.
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD.,
109 PITT STREET. Sole Agents.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to.
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
* » * *
Jodklitk Wood Preservative, for preserving
timber against White Ants, Dry Rot, Fungus,’ Teredbs,
ravages of rats, damp walls, etc. Used by all Australian
Governments. 1250 galls, supplied S.A. Government
in one order in September. Agents, VVm. Adams & 00.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney; also Melbourne and
Brisbane.*
COAL IS SAVED in the generation of steam
by absolutely reliable boiler mountings and stop valvfes,
steam tight piston glands and steam joints, also perfect
insulation of boilers and pipes to prevent radiation and
ensure transmission of beat. Bell’s Asbestos-1 acked
Water Gauges, Blow-off Cocks and “Belfry” Patent
Steam Valves, Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing and
“ Bellite” Jointing and Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conduct-
ing Composition will ensure economy and safety
to steam users. —BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY LTD., 315 Kent Street, Sydney. Also’ “■gents
for THE EARN LEY IRON CO., LTD., and PHASER &
CHALMERS, LTD., Mining Machinery.*
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for. the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows —168 in. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top.to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom —thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering- Company, South Melbourne.* [-
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Pibro Cement
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being
acid, ant and Vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney.* V*
CAPE EXPLOSIVE WORKS LTD.—AII
classes of explosives for mines, railways and quarry work.
The fact that they do more business in South Africa—the
largest mining field in the world —than all the other
explosive manufacturers in the world put together should
indicate that it is worth your while enquiring. Agents,
Noyes Bros., (Sydney), Ltd., 109 Pitt Street.*
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, Lon-
don of 23/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Limited “There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider
the advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz : that
its policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of other such institutions, as witness the “Twelve
Option ” contract lately placed market.”*
Wood Pipe for Mining.— lt is 25 per cent.
to'6s per cent, cheaper than metal pipe. It lasts as long
as cast iron, and four times longer than any other metal
pipe. It is unaffected by acids or mineralised water.
Write for catalogue, which deals freely with the subject.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Booth’s Wharf,
Balmain.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
William Bradford, Ballarat East. Late special
expert Victorian Government. Examines Mines. Advises
Works. Capital Furnished.* #
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melh. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.— Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S. W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. - The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
.*• * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and nianu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* « *♦ *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbf.rg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to'2oo
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel Gelignite Safety Fuse
Samsonite Blasting Gelatine Detonators
Gelatine Dynamite Dynamite Cartridges
couldn’t struggle through with that much, the capital
was reduced to £57,269 in half-crown shares. Subse-
quently 191,850 pref. shares of 2s. 6d. were issued : total
650,000. The co. has also a debenture debt of £107,470;
of this £lOO,OOO is 6 per cent, stock and the balance 10
per cent. It is now proposed to form a new co. with a
capital of £115,000, in 230,000 shares of 10s. each, cut up
this way :
To 6 p.c. debenture-holders .. ..£lOO,OOO
To 10 p.c. ditto 10,000
To debenture-holders at par .. .. 65,000
To shareholders at par .. .. .. 65,000
Total £230,000
The first 110,000 would be paid pref. shares. The others
would be Is. 6d. on application and Is. on allotment.
The present shareholders would lose all interest in the
concern unless they paid up; all that it is proposed to
leave them is the right to apply for one share for every
10 now held. The preference is to be 6 per cent., but is
apparently not cumulative. The debenture holders are
to be asked to take these latter shares and call it square.
It is no use going back now over the history of
awful mismanagement and miscalculation. “ If,” say the
men who still believe in the mine, “ we could get rid of
the burden of interest we might make it pay.” The
interest alone paid to date has amounted to £51,822, and
sundry expenses (largely reconstruction and general
charges) have mopped up £40,420. But while that would
account for the failure in the past, it does not follow by
any means that the removal of the burden of interest, etc.,
will mean success in the future ; for even at Stannary Hills
you can’t take the same ore out twice. The manager’s
idea is that, roughly, there are 10,000 tons of ore in sight,
and this seems to be worth, on an average, lj per cent. ;
that is to say, allowing no deduction whatever for losses,
150 tons of black tin, worth, say, £9O a ton—an outside
price. That makes the lot worth £13,500 gross. It is
mighty little for a £115,000 co. to go ahead on. The
manager thinks it would take £11,460 to open up the
mines so that the mill could be kept “continuously going,
treating 1000 tons per week of 1J per cent, ore.” The
manager doesn’t know, and that’s all about it. By this
time the Stannary Hills people ought to be thorough
believers in the Cornish maxim regarding tin: “Where
’tis, there ’tis.” The sum might open up some big bunches
or it might not; Or half the sum might. It is
a gamble, like every other lode-tin mine in North Queens-
land (and most other places), and it isn’t a job for a big
so. to tackle. If there is £13,500 of probable ore
developed in the mine, and if the mill in its present
situation can’t treat it at a profit, then the people who
put up the money ought to get a much bigger say than it
is proposed to give them. To put £llO,OOO of pref. capital
in ahead of them is absurd.
During 1909 Queensland mining cos. paid
£442,428 in dividends out of a production valued at
£3,656,564. Mount Morgan weighed out £200,000, and is
at present the only big dividend-paying copper mine in
the State. Charters Towers provided £156,819, including
the Day Dawn Block and Wyndham’s liquidation divi-
dend. The balance of £85,609 was made up by G.ympie,
Croydon and the Etheridge. Tin mining cos. helped very
little. The biggest of them, the Vulcan, has not paid a
dividend since 1907.
* * * *
The long-idle Aldershot (Q.) smelting works,
which failed to sell themselves to Phidston, have given
up hope at last. The debenture-holders are now' busy
informing the likely buyer how convenient the railways
antf ports $) - e for the removal of the works in pieces.
When the first mill returns of the Great Fitzroy
(Q.) were printed, The Bulletin guessed that the ore
was being picked. The guess was evidently right, for
since then the value has tailed off this way
Copper. Gold.
Feb. 28 .. 3 - 62 p.c. 4’49 dwt.
Mar. 7 .. 2‘43 ~ 3’57 „
Mar. 14 .. 2’6 ~ 3‘19 ~
The extraction is still poor—77 per cent, of the copper and
67 per cent, of the gold. The outlook is very gloomy.
Hampden-Cloncurrv (Q.) has increased its esti-
mate of ore reserves; but these reserves include a big
tonnage of 5 per cent, silicious ore, which other mines,
notably Mount Perry (Q.) and Queen Bee (N.S. W.), have
found it difficult to smelt at a profit. At the Duchess
there are supposed to be 10,600 tons of 20 percent, ore at
the surface, and 51,000 tons of 16 per cent, ore under-
ground. The small amount of rich ore in the mine com-
pared with that raised during development work proves
that the richest part of the shoot is narrow. It is also
known to vary considerably in size and value ; so it would
be very optimistic to expect an average yield of more
than 15 per cent, from the 61,600 tons shown in
the estimates. This would mean 9240 tons of
copper, which, valued at £5O, is worth £462,000, or at the
rate of £7 10s. per ton of ore. Under somewhat similar
conditions, Mt. Elliott expects to lay down blister copper
at Townsville for £35. If the Hampden can do the same,
then, reckoning on a profit of £2O per ton, the Duchess is
worth £185,000. What the Hampden itself is worth it is
too early to say yet; for, in spite of its age, the mine has
only been rooted at very shallow depths.
* * ’* *
For its four weeks New Einasleigh (N. Queens-
land) shipped' 2335 tons of copper ore to the Ohillagoe
works, and at that rate its original contract for 15,000
tons will soon run out. The smelting of 4046 tons of Einas-
leigh ore has returned 296 tons copper, 52370 z. silver,
and 89oz. gold ; so the stuff averages slightly over 7 per
cent., with nominal values for silver and gold. More
attention will be paid in future to picking out the lower-
grade material to maintain a good average for the smelters.
The mine is not well developed, though, and this ore has
come from a very limited sloping area, which means that
the output couldn’t be kept up. Most of it has come
from the big north stope in No. 3 level; but 330 tons
averaging 9 per cent, have come from the No. 4. Prospects
have improved very much ; but there is a lot of develop-
ment work to be done yet. And, lest the recent output
should intoxicate anybody, it is as well to remember
that it’s a long pull for ore from the Einasleigh to the
smelters.
* * * *
Gympie (Queensland) has still a kick or two left.
In No. 4 North Phoenix something that looks excep-
tionally’ like dividends was brought to the surface a week
ago. One specimen, secured intact, weighed 4470 z. and
contained 2890 z. 13dwt. gold. The gold estimated to be
in it is worth £lOl4. The specimen is less than 12in.
square, and runs from 2in. to Jin. in thickness.
* * * *
The 18 inches of stone struck the other day iu
the Brilliant shaft sent Charters Towers shares up all
along the line. Next day there was a fall; and though
the reef is reported to be making again, people are doubt-
ful. The only’ shows that get much notice just now,
except Mills’, the Freehold, and one or two other
“steadies,” are the outsiders. The Carringtons show-
signs of beginning to recover from the over-booming and
mismanagement which shook them up so badly. Blucher’s
Victory and the Cumberland have done well for their
supporters, and two or three claims on the latter line
have been taken up again. The Cumberland stuff, which
was too tricky years ago, is amenable enough now, and
the cute crowd that set it going are reaping good profits.
Charters Towers is now fairly glum. As matters stand,
the future depends on extensive development; but no
one seems to be able to look anywhere for the money
except to the Government. That’s where the Towers
gets stuck. The two big rival gangs that run the field
hate each other worse than the Devil. So far does this
go that the application of one to the Government is
jumped on with vigor and vehemence by the other. Both
are very “ influential,” and—there we are ! The sugges-
tion of one crowd to sink a deep shaft in the park to find
the Day Dawn reef, though it meant a lot to the field and
the workers, was hammered by the other. It succeeded
in getting the area of the grant reduced to proportions
which the applicants couldn’t accept, and so there we
are again! *
Duke Extended, Maryborough (Vic.), is a block
of ground which ought to have been roped in by the
Duke and Main Leads. As that didn’t happen, a co. was
formed to stand as an example of the way Victorians
can work from small beginnings. With a 50,000 share
register and an issue of 36,000 shares, £l2BO was placed
to the credit of mine account. Considering that nearly
evervalluvial mine wants £30,000 to get into the wash,
this looked like courting disaster. Next, even of the
£l2BO, no less than £6OO was taken by the vendors, so
that only a trifle of £6SO remained. Calls brought in
£328; but when the gentle thrum was asked for
holders of 16,800 shares forfeited their interest.
So far the co. has spent £544 on machinery and £lOO3 on
working account; it has built up £638 of debts, and has
£lO3 cash in hand. It will be almost a miracle if the
fledgling ever flies; but there are some people who still
hope, and if these faithful ones will pick up shares as
they’ are forfeited and go on paying the calls on them,
the thing may pull through. It all depends on the stay-
ing capacity of the faithful ones.
* * * *
Puff! Mines Minister, Mcßride (Vic.) blew a
ring from his cigar, and away went the hopes of the
crowd that wants a Langi Logan fusion. Mcßride was
wrong in some of his deductions, but he was probably
right in his action. The public never got hit over the
Cathcart racket, but it did plank in its stuff over the
Langi Logan floats, more.especially Peacock’s South'
Langi Logan. When the public put up the coin the pro-
moters’ pockets were wide open to receive slabs of paid-
ups and cash consideration. If calls are wanted, what
about requiring the promoters of the new Langi Logan, ,
South Langi Logan and North Langi Logan to part up
a bit, of the said consideration to help the field on ? Cer-
tainly, they may have used the cash to prop up Oath-
carts, and in that case they got slopped, and have paper
instead of cash. If they did not use it like that, now is
the time to do as Bill Knox did over the Chillagoe, and
offer to finance things a bit. If, on the other hand, the
cash really is not available, Mcßride did wrong in not
giving exemption to the cos. which wanted to finance
their neighbor. It is better, if there is to be a failure, to
have one rather than three. Success is much more likely
to come if the resources are pooled, and a thorough test
is thus given to one property.
* * * *
West Berry Consols, the last of the Creswick
deep-lead kings, is dying hard. When it was under
“ Bobs ” Roberts and Squires it touched the dividend
stage and paid £2250. Still, that was only a flicker.
“Bobs” disappeared, Squires went, and others took on
the show because they thought the Berry lead could
neyer grow poor. Herein they showed their lack of judg-
ment. West Berry, as its name signifies, was always a
bit off the course. Madame Berry West did fairly well ;
but West Berry Consols had volcanic disturbances, a big
field of wash, and heavy water overhead. These kept
the manager between a’sweatand a shiver, never know-
ing whether he and his crew would not be swafnped
out by some ungodly rush of water and slum. Still they
dodged that disaster, though at the finish a burst put
feet of water over the plat and set the pumps off full
stroke. As the mine had little work done ahead, as the
upkeep was more than the income, and as banks in
Victoria are not just now keen on letting mining cos.
have overdrafts, the Board wanted to shut down. This
meant throwing 200 miners idle, so the men have offered
to take the claim on tribute. The directors are a decent
lot so the chance is to be given the miners to keep body
and soul together. From first to last, £250,000 has gone
into the claim in calls and gold, and only £2so£ has come
out in dividends.
* • *
Not much sympathy is felt over the forfeiture
of one of the coal leases at the Powlett. Peter Mcßride
was in the position of the man who coveted Naboth’s
vineyard, and he got it—for the State. The said block
of coal land, with its neighbor, had been trailed
across the horizon in Sydney, but coal lords there
didn’t want and won’t have Powlett. Peter, like his
venerable namesake, is playing the part of gate-
keeper very well. Gippsland coal mining has lived
for years on the bounty of the State, and there isn’t the
least reason to believe that it will be otherwise
Powlett. The Bulletin has always held that the right
thing to do was for the State to see that the benefits it
gave to the Gippsland coal industry were benefits for the
public and not for the Fatman. Peter, in taking over the
lease at the Powlett, has endorsed that policy. Only one
private plot now remains in the Powlett vineyard, and if
the men who hold it do not get to work pretty fast, then
that block will also pass unto Peter for the People.
Principal Westralian results for February
Value
Revenue. Profit. per
Tons. £ £ Ton.
Great Boulder .. .. 16,297 45,382 23,270 55/8
Ivan hoe .. .. 18,322- 39,951 20,013 43/7
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 13,506 23,625 10,021 35/-
Kalgurli .. .. 10,020 26,103 14,543 52/1
Lake View Consols .. 10,553 12,277 2,394* 23/3
Golden Horseshoe .. 23,109 40,011 9,112 34/8
Oroya Links .. .. 10,377 14,695 3,/83 28/4
Associated .. •• 10,532 15,503 1 , 249 29/5
Orova-Brown Hill .. 120,448 6,369 4,026 6/3
Great Fingall .. .. 9,473 14,207 2,036 30/-
South Kalgurli .. . . 9,025 12,100 2,509 26/9
Associated Northern .., 3,095 7,718. j 4,570 -49/9
Orova-Black Range .. 4,300 8,648 1,863 40/3
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,142 5,482 2,800 51/1
Hainault 5,705 7,570 1,513 26/6.
Black Range .. .. 2,175 6,876 3,109 63/2
Mararoa .. .. 2,560 4,575 .2,091 35/9
Chaffers 3,746 5,985 ' 802 31/11
Boulder No. 1 .. 2,057 2,598 267 25/3
Sirdar 1.040 751 231 14/5
Ida H 1,050 2,500 24Q 47/7
North White Feather.. 1,925 2,672 1.58 27/9
Sandstone Development 1,800 3,040 422 33/9
Northern Mines .. 6,432 8,161 85 25/4
Vivien .. .. .. 3,230 3,799 81 23/6
Ingliston Extended .. 750 2,250 729 60/-
Cumberland .. .. 321 1,148 343 71/6
Loss.
Orion .. .. .. 540 640 105 23/8
•Including £B5l derived from the re-treatment of old
slimes.
fOld tailings.
J£4833 of this was extracted from 810 tons of purchased
ore.
North Kalgurli (W. A.) has again come to light
with a small bunch of rich ore, and as usual, before the
wild scramble to “get in” had ceased, shares had risen
over 100 per cent, in market value. This property has
provided so many lessons and warnings in the past that
it is wonderful how the speculative public will go on
bitin". The property is made up of patches, not big-
enough to pav fair dividends, but quite big enough to
build a boom on. Between booms, however, there is in-
variably an awful bog. Any fool can get into the boom,
but it takes a wise man to get out of the bog without
leaving his boots behind him. In some cases it has even
swallowed the speculator’s
Great Boulder’s lode at 2500 ft. is naturally
attracting a good deal of attention. At this point_ it is
only about 16ft. from the Horseshoe boundary ; but here-
abouts it is apparently vertical, and if it can keep 15ft. on
the right side of the boundary it is just as good tothe
Boulder as if it kept 1500 ft. from the line. At 2500 ft.
about 400 ft. of driving has been done, and the ore is worth
about lOdwt. for a width of 6ft. On the -350 ft. level
700 ft. of driving has been done. The lode here is jwst
about the same width ; but it is richer—say 15dwt. or a
trifle less. Yet, in spite of improvements in other mines,
the Ivanhoe is probably still best worth attention.
Tindal’s people—Ooolgardie (W.A.)— still pro-
fess their unabated confidence. They must be building
on faith and not on works. The record is all against the
mine; and unless past results are all gammon, and the
mill a shocking liar and gold thief, it is hard to see how
the estimates of future greatness can be supported.
There is talk of 4dwt. paying. It might, if development
were starved. And the bill will be heavy, for the work
has been neglected—in fact, almost ignored.^
GwaliaConsolidated (W.A.)still has its troubles.
Last month’s expenditure ate more than was earned, and
in despair the Board has cabled the manager to go to
London and talk things over. An office note accompany-
ing this somewhat depressing announcement says that
three boreholes have shown 600,000 tons of possible
reserves of ore, and the naive remark is made that the
value of this ore can be based on (1) the average of the
returns to date, (2) on the assays obtained from the drill
Cores, or (3) on a mixture of both. But as a London
financial daily which used to recommend the mine to its
followers says, it is “ temerarious to assume the value on
the principles laid down, and much work will have to be
done before the estimate of tonnage can be accepted
with any degree of confidence.” Even the inks' worm
will turn.
• * * *
The old Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) is to go.
The Oroya-Links takes over the Ivalgoorlie mine, and pays
out 450,000 shares in the new concern. Another com-
pany the Orova-Leonesa, has been formed to take over
,the co.’s Nicaragua property, and apparently the old co.
will get 450,000 shares out of that too, leaving 50,000 in
reserve. Also, *33,750 in cash will be cut up; and the
balance of the assets—shares in prospecting ventures and
options mostly—will go to still another new institution,
the Oroya Exploration Co. The cutting-up of the in-
terests is advisable. If the big Anglo-Westralian cos.
won’t distribute the cash they have made out of the Kal-
goorlie mines, but will insist upon putting it into foreign
specs., the least they can do is to simplify the process of
selling out of these foreign specs. A man who may
think it good enough to buy into a mine he knows at
Kalgoorlie may feel quite differently about a mine he
doesn’t know in Central #
In letting shareholders know how things stood
at September 30, 1909, the directors of the Central and
West Boulder (W.A.) show a surplus of £S6B. The
result is arrived at after debiting the co. with all the
things the Board can think of, and the balance has been
applied in partial liquidation of an outstanding debt of
£3050 ; so there is nothing left for shareholders, and
probably there never will be as long as the property is
worked. m
Hannan’s Star (W.A.) is now spending a little
more than formerly on development, but the bulk of the
money is in underground bins and sundry dead
work. What digging for ore is being done is unearthing
good values in two or three parts of the property, and by
the time the mine is absorbed by the Lake Yiew the
combined undertaking should have a flattering tale to
tell on the subject of reserves. Shareholders meet in
London to assent to the amalgamation on March 30 ; but
the fusion has already been cut and dried and made a
certainty by weight of voting power.
« * * . *
Pioneer tin. run by Cecil G. Ryan, of the pretty
ties still leads as the big tin show of nor’-east Tasmania.
Since Alfred Mellor had to let the claim go, 3,500,000
cubic yards have been sluiced for 3246 tons of stream tin.
This shows 2 - 1041 b. stream tin per yard ; the present
average runs a shade over 1 "81b. The mine is one of
treasures that fall into the rich man’s lap,
•>-oing, as it did, into the money-Miller and Harvey-
Patterson pinnies. Electricity and other ’icities have been
put in by Ryan to bring down costs ; these have been
heavy, owing to the big lift from the bottom of the lead,
which has meant coupling up two pumps to get the stuff
to the surface. Although costs have been reduced
already to 7‘845d. per cubic yard, as compared with
9-087dl for the first half of last year, still better things
are hoped for the current term. Most of the lower
bench just treated approximated 31b. tin per yard. This
good ground is nearly all worked out in the present pad-
dock, so the average may show a shrinkage for a bit
ahead. With four pumps rushing drift through, 345,700
cubic yards were shifted for the last six months. This is
a record, just as the 290 tons of tin won for the term is
the biggest output for a half-year.
* * * *
The Hercules (Tas.) got back on to the div. list
12 months ago ; but it has been putting later profits into
the mine. The 12 months’work to the end of January
showed a profit of £6484, of which £2575 was divided.
Most of this was from zinc-blende ore. The Tasmanian
Smelting Co. left off taking sulphides in August,
after the usual row—the Tasmanian West Coast
is a great place for mining rows. The co. reckons
it has 107,000 tons of proved zinc ores and another
400,000 tons of rather more than probable ore ; it will
bulk about lOoz. silver, 10 per cent, lead and 30 per cent,
zinc. The richest stuff is exported ; but the wants a
process to camp on its doorstep, and it thinks at present
that E. J. Horwood’s roast and flotation method will fill
the bill. As the result of tests “preliminary steps,”
whatever they may be, have been taken to erect a plant
capable of treating 1000 tons a month. Evidently the co.
isn’t going to plunge. It had on January 31 £5206 cash
in-hand, and another £3OOO worth or so of ore on hand ;
so it won’t have to pawn its door-mat to raise the money
to put up the little plant.
The Westport, Maoriland’s most prosperous
coal co., has had this record of dividends in the past
12 years
1898 .. 7 percent. 1904 .. 15 per cent.
1899 .. 7£ „ 1905 .. 15 „
1900 ..8 ~ 1906 ..15 „ ■
1901 ..12 „ 1907 .. 15 ~
1902 .. 14f „ 1908 .. 12J „
' 1903 .. 15 ~ 1909 .. 12| „
The capital is now £360,000 in 80,000 shares of £5 paid to
£4 10s. ; so 12J per cent, will now mean £45,000, whereas
until last year it only meant £35,000. The £BO,OOO of
new capital was provid’ed simply by transferring portion
of the reserves to that account; so 12£ per cent, will be
really equal to a shade over 16 per cent., so far as the old
shareholder is concerned. According to the profit and
loss account, last year’s profits were a poor little £30,515 ;
but including additions made to reserves they were
£38,598. And that was after providing an unknown
amount for depreciation and paying £12,000, the cost of
the fire that occurred in the Granity mine during the
year. Further, according to one director, “ there has
been a very large expenditure in connection with new
works ... all charged to profit and loss.” The amount, or
part of it, written off for depreciation is turned into a
sinking fund. Besides this sinking fund (£33,578) the co.
has £30,275 of investments apart from the business. A
very cautious and prudent management is the Westport
Coal Co.’s.
Still the Westport has its troubles. It never
sleeps but it has one of two horrid nightmares, and
sometimes the two dance on its chest at once. One is
“labor legislation,” the other “State competition.”
“The illegitimate competition which the co. is subjected
to by the Government,” said one of the directors at the
last meeting-, “is a serious matter. It certainly is
illegitimate competition, because th" operations ot
the Government have not resulted in a protit,
but the action of the State is applauded by cer-
tain individuals, on the ground that competition
by the Government prevents Private Enterprise from
making a profit.” This is turning the cart upside down.
The action of the State in providing some of the raw
material of a thousand i ndustries at cost price is applauded
because it allows Private Enterprise to make a profit,
while the terrific prices charged by certain private people
for raw materials really prevents any other Private Enter-
prise but their own from making a profit. Still, in spite
of the nightmares, the Westport Co. really oughtto try
to buck up. A co. that can in one year transfer £BO,OOO
of reserves to capital, and then spend £12,000 on fighting
a fire, and add £6217 to a sinking fund, and pay for large
construction works out of profits, and on top of all dis-
tribute 12J per cent, really hasn’t got much to complain
about.


What’s the time? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Chamberlain’s Tablets are a pure, honest,
harmless, reliable medicine for the prevention and
cure of all diseases of the stomach and liver.*
GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearings.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. t 2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
FOR
m
4Qi2-MileiEcLCai!onTrianAnv_Qlh
VACUUM MOBIL, OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Machete” : Re the touching story (B.
24/2/10) concerning French Joe, of Thursday
Island, who is said to have lived for 30 years
among Papuan cannibals. Plenty of New Cale-
donians have haunted Papua in the past. Most
of them gravitated to the Greek pearl-getting
colony in the Trobriands, as being a spot well
suited to their particular virtues. All the same,
I never heard of any man, escapee or otherwise,
going “ fanti ” in Papua. A native wife was
common enough among traders and Government
officials a few years ago ; but the white man who
lived as a nigger, is and was a thing unknown.
Perhaps the fact that he might be eaten has
something to do with this. No man really likes
to be eaten, however much he may disguise the
fact. If a white man gets down low in Papua the
nigger scorns him, and for the white man and the
nigger that is 10,000 times better than fraternising
with him. There is no white man whom the
Papuan outwardly respects more than the mis-
sionary (who alone of white men in Papua will
eat and drink with him); there is no man that he
more thoroughly despises in his Papuan soul.
AFTER “ CHANTECLER."
The future Australian Roscius will rehearse in
the Backblocks.
“Leo Lear”: I trust these abo-lying
gents who have received such various information
re the annihilation of fleas are yet alive to profit
by my glad news re the one and only way of
ejecting vermin from blankets and general
premises. There is a weed, somewhat resembling
a cosmos plant, that grows in the Queensland
scrubs and elsewhere, and rejoices in the name of
Stinking Rodger. Why Rodger, I know not ;
but the Stinking can’t be too highly endorsed.
Place a few leaves of this plant on the worst set
of blankets you can find, and the rush of inhabit-
ants to escape will carry away the end of your
bunk. Then place a ring of the weed round the
camp, and a few rabbit traps at odd corners, and
no flea in Australia will break the barrier. No
living person can occupy blankets with the
odoriferous Rodger on the premises, but I take
it that’s not the question. It’s fleas we’re dis-
puting about.
“ S.S.S.” : Away up off Papua there is a
dot called Russell Island—a notorious isle for the
ferocity of its head-hunters and cannibals. But it
is even more remarkable by reason of the fact
that the savage inhabitants are ruled under an
absolute monarchy by a woman, for amongst the
Papuans women, as a rule, are of no account. She
is very old and incredibly ugly, but she is a|past-
mistress in pouri-pouri (witchcraft), and that
keeps her ferocious subjects in a proper frame of
loyalty. Her word is law, and obedience waits
upon the heels of her wishes, just as the bash of
death hits disobedience where it lives. The young
man upon whom she casts a favorable eye hesi-
tates not when her withered arms wait, lest he
become a corpse in his tracks.
A recent tribal fight at Rolling Bay (N.T.)
doesn’t seem to have been any kid-glove affair,
like the one mentioned by “Norman D.” (B.
10/3/’10). The one white eye-witness was J. It.
McPherson, who had about 50 Junction Bay
natives employed in trepanging. One morning,
according to his own account, he pulled ashore, as
usual, from his lugger to his smoke-house, and
noticed that there were only a few of his blacks
about. Upon asking “whaffor” he was told that
the others were getting ready to wipe out 40 Liver-
pool River natives, who were on a plundering
expedition, and that the contest was due
to start at 4 p.m. About that hour he
heard a yell, and saw the robber mob
emerge from behind some bushes 200 yards
away, and canter indignantly to a cleared space
near the beach. Spear-throwing was the fiist
itemj on the programme. The two pushes got to
with about 15yds. of each other, and fired large,
barbed spears for about a quarter of an
hour, but on account of their cleverness in dodg-
ing and the use they made of their shields no one
was hurt, and most of the spears were smashed.
It was a great loss of property. At last a
Junction Bay black was transfixed while stooping
to pick up a spear that had been previously
thrown at him. Then the trouble really began.
The two crowds rushed together and hand-to-
hand military stoush ensued. The Junction Bay
lot used knives, tomahawks and iron bars about
four feet long, made from hatch battens taken
from a wreck, while the Liverpool River push had
only waddles and womerahs. In less than half
an hour the tomahawks and iron bars won, and
the Liverpool River crowd left 11 of their number
on the field. These were hacked to death with
the tomahawks and iron bars. The others were
pursued, and McPherson says he thinks very few,
if any, escaped for good. Like the scuffle at
Blenheim, it was a glorious victory.
How “Henry Pheltlmtt’s” friend got
married :
It’s wot y’d call eoinsidense now. Pure charnst it were
then. I was ridin’ inter Bathurst jest about jaokarse
time ter ketch the might and main ft r Sydney. 1 was
headin’ fer the Juberlee turn-out. I was clobbered up in
me noo outfit—pretty loud it was, too ; yer cud'ear it
torkin’ on tbe wall. There was no small flies roostin’ on
me 20 year ago. About four mile this side er town a
spring cart heaves in sight, as the sayin’ is. “ Long hair,”
I says ter meself, an’ canters up. An’, right enough, it
was long hair. I’d seen some pretty middlin’ thatched
crowns in me time, but this ’un bumped ’em all out.
Long ! ’Struth, it was as long’ as ole Plugger’s tail there,
an’ it ain’t been pulled for Gord knows when. Yaller an’
wavin’ it was, too, jest like a paddiok uv ripe wheat, an’
th’ golden sunset plavin’ on it, as the sayin’ is, somethin’
great. “Any top-piece that’ll grow a crop like that,” I
says, “is worth selectin’.” Me neddy not bein’ used ter
vehicles, I didn’t get a screw at her smilin’ outfit. I arsts
about her at the pub, but not a leather-headed son of a
gun of ’em knowed her from a flitch of bacon. I didn’t
give meself a dorg’s charnst of ever gettin’ on the track
ov the chestnut again. Well, ter make a long story short,
I hops inter the might and main about ’leveu. I had me
head out er the winder jest on the pint uv arstin’ the
station-master ter have a taste with me, in ’onner uv
Ned’s mother, when up sails me yaller chestnut filly. A
fair model she was!
“ Whips er room ’ere, Miss,” I says polite, keepin’ the
bottle out uv eyeshot. She never lets on she ’ears me.
“This un ’ll do,” she says to her pals, an’comes floatin’
in. She torked, and chucked kisses, and waved her nose-
rag at her cobbers, an’ then the very bloke wot l was
goin’ ter shout fer comes up an’slams the blarsted door,
an’ whissels ter another bloke, an’ we was orf.
Me mate goes ter pull her head inside, when she lets a
squeal out uv her. “ I’m caught! Me ’air’s caught!’
An’ right enough it was. That flamin’ fool of a station-
master, the very bloke as I was a-goin’ ter shout fer, ’ad
closed the floggin’ door on me chestnut’s crownin’ glory,
as the sayin’ is. I tried ter get ’er out, but, not bein’ tip
ter them patent locks, I had ter give it up, an’ she whin-
nyin’ all the time. I was fair bogged ter th’ axles. Then
I whips out me knife an’ cuts her adrift, as the sayin’ is,
an’pockets the remnants of her thatch. She tries ter
thank me fer me trouble, but I says, “Oh* you’re wel-
come, miss ; don’ mention it.” Then we knocks ourselves
down ter one another, an’ from there ter Sydney I makes
the pace pretty warm. Of course, we wasn’t engaged,
but it was pretty well an understood thing.
Next time I yarded her was at a hop at Wattle Flat.
Jest luck I struck her there too. She give me a great
welcome, chucks the bloke she was engaged ter,
an’ canters roun’ the room with me, the other
bloke glarin’ at us like a flamin’ wallaroo.
We’d just finished our perlimery go, when up
he comes an’ says, “I like yer hide. If you're
goin’ ter run this darnce y’d better come outside.” He
was a big, burly-lookin’ cove, but I was pretty
useful with me paws them times. “Jest th’ hidenti-
eal,” I says. Well, ter make a long story short, I
belted the hide orf me hero in pretty fast time, an’ never
’ad no further dispute about th’ ownership uv the filly.
Two church Sundays after we were spliced ; an’ I ain’t
1 ioked back since, as the sayin’ is.
FULL UP.
DINER (who has fed sumptuously for the post hour): “ Waiter, briny my bill.”
WAITER: “ Yessir.”
DINER : “ Seven-and-six! Do you think I am fully charged?”
WAITER : “ Well, sir, judging from what you have had I should think you were ; but perhaps
you could find room for a little more.”
“H.S.”: Despite all that has been said
and written to the contrary, Weird Melancholy
does reside in the bush—that is, in some parts of
it. I was one time tank-sinking about 20 miles
west of Coolah(N.S.W.). The camp was situated in
a lonely gorge, hemmed in by a dense growth of
she-oak, which, when stirred by the lone night
wind, emitted long, low, wailing cries, like those
of aSoul refused adrink at the Last Pub. Here the
heat haze, which by day ever glints and shimmers
over the saddened plains, was nightly substituted
by Weird Melancholy, drifting forlornly and on
limping hoof through the tree tops and tall kan-
garoo grass with a low, monotonous, com-
plaint. Now and then would rise the hideous
bellow of some ghostly night bird, or the marrow-
freezing howl of a maddened dingo, seeking its first-
born. Often when I have arisen at midnight to bash
the mournful ’possum from mine housetop, 1 have
dimly discerned, silhouetted against the pale
green moon, great bunches of Weird Melancholy
caught among the oak branches, swinging and
swaying to the chill night wind ; but I have
never been able to capture any of it. Time after
time I have climbed the oaks with a patent-top
treacle tin to secure a specimen, but always as
my hand was outstretched to grasp its long dank
hair it fled into the swamp, clanking its chains
and sobbing like a hangman who has been unjustly
sacked.
AN UNFORTUNATE CIRCUMSTANCE.
DOSSER: “I lost ’arf a quid yesterday ,”
HIS PAL : “ Did pare a ’ole in per pocket?"
DOSSER: “No. The bloke wot dropped it heard
it fall."
“ Machete ” : The Merrie England, official
yacht of the Papuan Government, which has just
been badly shaken up by a storm while on its way
back after a refit at Townsville, is a little craft
with a past. It was once the property of the
Marquis of Ailesbnry (where the ducks came
from). That amiable nobleman was wont to carry
on in a Satanic fashion at sea, when he wasn’t
trying to drive a four-in-hand over his Marchioness
on land—a favorite jest of his. The Merrie Eng-
land is reckoned the maddest, jumpiest craft
afloat, and can leap more in a dead calm than
many vessels do in a screaming gale. Often arid
often did Governor Maegregor go ashore and talk
affably to some cannibals, or sit down on the back
of a crocodile and smoke, rather than spend the
night on an anchored ship that had convulsions
and kangaroo dances.
“ Macheto ” : “5.5.5.,” with that story
of the snake and the mailbag (B. 3/3/TO), sheds
light upon the Papuan’s capacity for inveracity.
There lived once upon the Mamba a village con-
stable, bight Busirnai-mai, well known to every
miner who ever went there. Bushi’s back was
strangely scratched and scarred, and, in return
for tobacco, he used to relate a harrowing tale.
When he was a young man, said Bushi, he was
attracted to a taro field by a woman’s screams.
Flying thither, he found a girl struggling with a
ferocious hairy devil, which, as Bushi described
it, resembled a gorilla. Bushi slew it, after a
fearful combat, hence these honorable scars.
Asked questions as to what became of the corpse,
Bushi would say it had been eaten and the bones
had gone, he didn’t savvy , where. So much
impressed with this tale was a young and
newly-arrived Assistant Resident Magistrate (all
A.R.M.’s liked Bushi—at first) that he recounted
it to the late “Mat” Moreton, who had been 25
years in Papua. Then the A.R.M. discovered that
Bushi’s injuries were due to (a) a charge of shot
fired into his back when he was fleeing, after
having treacherously thrown a spear into a
Government whaleboat; (b) the father of a
flogging inflicted on him by a bad-tempered R.M.
ff r some extra villainous pa rfoi mance. Then did
Bushi’s stock slump, and the A.R.M. assimilated
some witdom re Brown Brother.
“ Ben Telbow ” : The creek mosquitoes of
Port Wakefield (S.A.) are the most ferocious in
the Commonwealth. They are of the hound-dog
variety—large and meat-ravenous. Going home
one night I heard the familiar hum behind me,
and knew that I was followed. Dodging
into the pub I sneaked out the back
way and ran until I sank exhausted bv
the roadside, only to hear again the
sound as of an on-coming motor. The
flying sleuth-hound had picked up
the scent. Fortunately she (it was a
female one) tore on over my head, and
I raced for home by a short-cut. We
reached the front door together, and
dashed for the bedroom. She was in
first, and we fought. She darted at me
with reddened eyes. I punched the air.
Her footwork was dazzling. Then I
tried strategy. Seizing the candle I
sneaked into the hall. She followed,
purring furiously. Like a flash I blew
out the light, rushed back to the bed-
room and banged the door. A low
hum, growing louder and louder, then
silence. Next morning I found her
wedged firmly m the fanlight and
quite dead. I buried her in the garden.
• * * *
S. S. Severn ” strings some pearls :
Time was in Torres Straits when one could trade a plug
of “ tabac ” for a bottle of pearls, and when Frank Sum.
mers was king of Wai-wea he used bags of seed pearl for
door weights. To-day they are somewhat more valuable.
The price varies according to lustre and shape, and the
present market exchange is £'l7 a grain. Over 20 grains
the price doubles on every grain, and a perfect pearl is
worth practically what the possessor demands. Diving
for the shell has many dangers. The armor-plated diver
may walk into a hole and be killed by water pressure ;
his air-pipe may foul, or his life-line become tangled in
the coral spines. Deep-sea divers are rarely attacked
by sharks or octopuses; it is the swim diver who
wears no dress, that has most to fear from those
heavy impolite fish. The Jap is particularly stoical.
If a diver be brought tip dead he is taken out of his
dress, and another of the brown men gets right irito
it and goes down. There are unlucky divers. On a
Thursday Island lugger a Jap who brought up a very
valuable pearl was squatting on the edge of the boat,
looking at the gem lying loosely in his hand, when a sud-
den sea-lurch rolled it overboard into the Strait. The
Jap went down after it, and recovered it in 20 fathoms of
water. A few months later the same man found another
valuable pearl. After coining to the surface he took his
headpiece and lines off, and was sitting on the hatch,
unlacing his heavy boots, when the lugger heeled o\er
and he slid into the sea. The weights on the boots sent
him down like a stone, and he is down yet.
“PLEASE, SHUT THE GATE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The roads are rough and lonely where the Out-back wan-
d’rers go,
From Tuckumbil to Broken Hill,
From Bourke to Jericho.
The houses stand some leagues apart, and oft where none
can see ;
But wire and rail across the trail
Occur quite frequently.
At each there is a crude device that horsemen execrate,
And ’long the bar on top in tar
ts writ, “ Please, shut the gate.”
It. G. McNutt, of Sundown, had one on his boundaree
Which badly drngg’d, and where it sngg’d
That notice all could see.
Below was’scribed, when Sundown run was in a barren
state:
“ He’s ’fraid the drought may wander out,
So shut his bloomin’gate.”
Then one upon the bar beneath in large, neat letters cut:
“You hog unskill’d, why don’t you build
A darned gate that will shut! ”
The fourth broad bar this legend bore, with some nick-
name and date:
“ You lazy louts and rouseabouts,
Please shut the squattah’s gate.”
Upon the last was painted this lack-reverence for pelf:
“ Old Herrin’-gut, of Sundown, shut
The blessed gate yourself! ”
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
CAUTIOUS MR. BIGG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Care and caution carry a man further than strong
horses. —Arab proverb.
Bigg was a very cautious chap :
I never met his double.
To dodge a very small mishap
He took a lot of trouble.
Ere crossing he would look both ways
Where trains or trams were crawling.
He stayed at home on windy days
For fear of chimneys falling.
He grieved because his two eyes were
Set in the same direction.
He went to bed with greatest care,
And rose with circumspection.
All motor-cars he held in awe,
And cabs were very trying.
He almost shrieked when first he saw
An airship go a-flying.
From that time forth the aeroplane
Was his supreme aversion,
And he beheld with nervous pain
An aerial excursion.
On flying as a frightful play
He tremblingly descanted,
For men were only safe when they
On earth were firmly planted.
. lie saw his fellows swoop and spin.
He thought they’d lost their senses.
“ This soaring,” said he, “flying in
The face of Providence is.”
Below in safety he would stay
That thought with comfort filled him.
An aeronaut fell down one day
On Mr. Bigg, and killed him !
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATINC
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Money Back if not Satisfied. ’
DONALD ROSS 8 CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE.
Tk“FxBR”
WATCHES
are f=plate Levers.
They have Brequet hair springs.
They have compensated and adjusted
balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand
HARD RIDING and knocking
about, and go with profound
accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and
kept in order for two 3'ears (break-
ages excepted) without charge.
They are made in every style of case.
Write for Catalogue.
Gent.’s Oxidised J-Hnntingr f-plate “Fx and R” Lever
Watch, fully jewelled, 46/6.
Plain Figures'
. Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Starfish”: Anent slanguage. William
Houlahan, drover, and champion bad linguist
of the West, heard at the Walgett post office
that the adjacent trickle was only 2ft. and
falling. And so he decided to cross. He
didn’t cotton to the fact that 2ft. meant, in
the P.O. vernacular, the shallowest section of the
river. Selecting a likely place, he observed “Goo
urp, Cronje ; who-a-a back, George,” and started
his team across. In half a minute the waggon
was submerged to its axle boxes and the leaders
swimming. Then Hooly loosened his vocabulary
packet with a bunch of adjectives so intense that
the edges of the river began to crumble. He
cursed the P.O. officials, from the D.P.M.G. to
the smallest telegraph messenger. Here the
water bubbled. Hooly proceeded. The river
started to grow hot in its innards, then to boil,
then to evaporate. Hooly forgot the Deputy
P.M. for a moment and gave tongue to the team,
driving them straight on. The water evaporated
some more, and the oxen, under Hooly’s pleasant
guidance, hauled forward. As the' waggons
reached mid-stream William Houlahan re-
membered the Deputy Postmaster-General again.
Immediately immense clouds of steam arose from
the river. Soon the water evaporated entirely
and only mud remained. Hooly continued with
language both plain and fancy, and the mud gave
place to hard-baked earth. As the waggon got
finally clear, the bed of the river yawned and split
in a thousand directions. Nothing but the fact
that they were wearing heat-proof macintoshes
saved the bullocks.
* * * *
“ M. Bah” : Be child slavery —what price
this? At a recent meeting of the Tweed (N.S.W.)
Agricultural Society one Salmon proposed that
the technical branch of the Education Department
be urged to instal in the local public school a
rubber imitation of a cow’s udder with teats, so
that children might be taught the art of teat-pull-
ing. Nothing came of
the proposal, it being
felt—perhaps—that teat-
pulling wasn’t an art,
but a nightmare.
A MARANOA
RIVER SKETCH.
A boundary rider shift-
ing family to an out-
station per saddle-bags.
“ Norman D.” : The leper quarantine sta-
tion atPort Darwin (N.T.) is a farce. Itissupposed
to be on an island, but at low tide it is on a penin-
sula, and patients can walk off when they please.
When lepers are put there they are left to them-
selves, and provisions are taken over fortnightly.
If a Chow has leprosy, and the Government
knows it, he is frequently sneaked off to China by
the first boat. When notice has to be taken of
nigger lepers—and there are a few in the Terri-
tory—they are put on the island, and it’s a case of
in by the front door and out by the back. Then
provided they “go bush” and stop there, no
serious attempt is made to recapture them. A
half-caste boy was put on the “island ” a few
COULDN’T BE UP ANY FURTHER.
SYMPATHETIC FRIEND: “ Don’t give way to it, Brown. Keep your heart up."
Brown (faintly): “ I'm ’fraid it is.”
years ago, and straightaway went back to his
tribe (the Alligators), and he is still roaming the
bush contaminating the other niggers, unless the
disease has settled him. The Chows seem to
have very little dread of leprosy, and will hide
the diseased one until further concealment is
impossible.
“Via”: I’m looking for an old buck-
jumper rider (one over 45) who is still game and
anxious to ride an outlaw. Have met scores of
middle-aged stockmen throughout Queensland
who tacitly admitted that the game had taken the
nerve out of them. A nigger usually turns it up
at about 25, and hands over the goodwill of the
business to a younger man.
* * * *
“ Machete.” : “S. S. Severn,” writing in
The Bulletin (17/2/TO) of Torres Strait “ pourri-
pourri ” and its practitioners, moves me to
mention my first falling-out with an eminent
exponent of the art who resided in N.-E.
Papua. The day after I made his acquaint-
ance he appeared at my hut in the sago
swamp, accompanied by a villainous jackal
who had learned “ English ” and other
l accomplishments as food-ruiner to a
storekeeper. Through this medium, the
wizard suggested a morganatic alliance
between myself and his daughter, for the
benefit of all concerned, including him-
self. He referred me to several im-
portant members of Papuan officialdom
who were in a position to verify his re-
commendation of the lady (this, of course,
was long, long ago). I refused the honor,
pleading misogamy, marital feeling, and
the shortly-expected arrival of the Gover-
nor, the last being a true and valid excuse.
Further argument led to a painful scene,
which resulted in my “ pourri-pourrifica-
tion ” at the hands of the enraged and
magic parent. After three years of fever
and minor casualties, for which he took
credit, he claimed to have “ pourri-
pourri’d ” me out of the country. Indeed,
the curse still works—l am a daily jour-
nalist to-day, who was once a free and
(comparatively) untrammelled boss over
many niggers.
“ Moorabinda ” : Some months ago various
scribes discussed “anabranches” and “billa-
bongs,” but I do not think any of them ex-
plored the origin of either word. “ Anabranch ”
is not given in the Century Dictionary, nor in
the Imperial, nor in Webster, nor in the Standard.
The Oxford English Dictionary treats “ana”
as an independent word, explaining it as “anasto-
mosing.” The word originated in 1834, when
Colonel Jackson, in his “Journal of the Royal
Geographical Society” (p. 79) wrote: “Such
branches of a river as after separation re-unite, I
would term anastomnsing-branches ; or, if a word
might be coined, ana-branches , and the islands
they form branch-islands.” This Col. Jackson
was for a time secretary of the society and
editor of its “Journal.” In February,
1847, he resigned, and in the “Journal”
of that year (“Condensed account of Sturt’s
Exploration in the Interior of Australia,” page 87)
appears an amusing instance of the new editor's
ignorance of the old editor’s proposed word
“ Captain Sturt proposed sending in advance to
ascertain the state of the Ana branch of the Dar-
ling, discovered by Mr. Eyre on a recent expedi-
tion to the North.” No fewer than six times on
two pages is the word “anabranch” printed as two
separate words, and as if Ana were a proper
name. In the index, it appears : “ Ana, a branch
of the Darling.” Leichhardt, in his “Overland
Chronic Constipation.
“For years I suffered terribly from chronic con-
stipation,” writes E. C. Taylor, 292 Riley Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. “I am now entirely cured
through the use of Laxo-Tonic Pills.” All
sufferers from constipation will obtain like results.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are sold everywhere at lOid. and
Is. Gd.*
Expedition,” (p. 35) makes use of the word “ ana , ” :
“ The river itself divided into anabranches which
... made the whole valley a maze of channels.”
“Billabong” is described by some Australian
writers as an affluent from a river, returning to it,
or often ending in the sand, in some cases running
only in flood time. In the Wiradhuri dialect of
the centre of N. S. Wales, “billa ” meansa river,
and “ bong” (or “bung”) dead. “Billa” is also a
river in some Queensland dialects. In the Moreton
Bay dialect it accurs in the form of “ pilly,” and
in the sense of “tidal creek.” In the Western
Australian Almanack for 1842. quoted in J.
Eraser’s “Australian Language,” 1892 (Appendix,
p. 50) “bilo” is given for river. “Billabong”
is often regarded as a synonym for amabranch,
but there is a distinction. From the original idea
the latter implies rejoining the river ; whilst the
former implies continued separation from it,
though what are called “ billabongs ” often do
rejoin.
* * * *
“S. S. Severn”: Once when there had
been a particularly brutal murder and village-
burning on the coast of Papua a gun-boat was
sent to remonstrate with the perpetrator or per-
petrators. One fine day, as she lay at anchor, a
bent old warrior in a canoe called upon the cap-
tain of the floating battery, and explained that he
knew the villain, and where he was to be cap-
tured—a spot four days’ voyaging along the Edge.
The old cove was received cheerfully, and agreed
to lead the man-hunters to their quarry. When
the gunboat reached the village where the mur-
derer was said to be, however, the Hunted had
just left, and the subsequent chase for him, under
the ungrudging guidance of the decrepit warrior,
lasted just three weeks, during which period the
old hero had the time of his life. One dark night
he swam ashore. Months afterwards the Hunted
was caught—and it was the ancient warrior him-
self !
* • * •
There is much girl in the Torres Strait
isles —brown girl, girl with honey eyes, with
green eyes, with eyes that have the same old
unreliable depths—and shallows. There is girl
in the grass rami and girl in the two-piece suit.
Negele with her bronze, curved young body and
great gold eyes that throw back to a Malay fore-
bear—Negele in a gaily-flowered lava-lava, with
a green shell necklace about her satin throat, and
a crown of scarlet hibiscus on her crisp, black
curls, stepping daintily up the croton track,
carrying a palm-withe basket of fraw fraws —can
hold her own with the best. She is useful, too.
She brews cocoanut oil, and tills the tara patch.
The crustacean fishing is for her —no island man
would deign to catch crabs—and she keeps her
grass house scrupulously clean. Her coppa-
maired (earth-cooked) fish is excellent eating.
She has a lovely singing voice. And when she
laughs you can hear the tinkle of the dinner-bell
in Paradise.
THE MEN WHO ARE DOWN AND OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. . . And when we are broken and tattered ;
When we drift to the threepenny pub,
Where the free lunch crusts are scattered
And the beer dregs go to the tub—
The tub that they all keep handy,
That nothing may go to waste —
To be sold to the wrecks for shandy—
The wrecks who have lost the taste.
The cabbies go past unheeding
The men that they used to drive —
We know why the cabs are speeding ;
We know where the cabs arrive.
We’ve been there often and often
With Maudie, or Lil, or Nell;
But now we’ve no boots to soften,
The stones on the road to Hell.
We doss with the sky for a cover,
And the earth for our eider-down ;
With Remorse for our close-held lover,
The grass for her tear-wet gown.
We’ll sleep late, maybe to-morrow.
To clear uV> the last great Doubt—
Please God, there is no more sorrow
For the Men Who Are Down and Out.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excevt of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by pbst or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Ossian: That wonderfully clever man who
shipped circulars to M.L. from Australia to be posted
back to Australia wasn’t so clever after all. By
marking the envelopes “ Over 20 posted ” he could have
posted them in AT. S.W. for the same ha’penny as in M.L.
When you come to inquire you’ll find that most of the
bricks aimed at the Commonwealth’s Post Office are
made of the same flimsy material ...G.1v.8. : One sen
tence goes—it bears such an interesting resemblance to
an A. Deakin pronunciamento on the 255. fraud : “ Inci-
dentally I came to understand and to know that God,
matter, motion, force, etc., were special inventions of the
mind, invented for special purposes. In no ways
adapted to the requirements of a tangible expo-
sition of what these ideas stood for.” Renison Bel) ■
Afraid there isn’t any literature on the subject-
Owen : Sorry don’t know Waiora : Just missed...
W.H.E. (Melbourne): Both unsuitable W.C.(Sydney):
A bald-headed confidence-trick yarn fairly well told
C.S.A.: You can have all your hard graft. Here—(oofc-
inq for work on an emptv stomach outs the lot Lof. :
Don’t recall the date of the issue of T. P.’s Weekly in
which “The Sway of Tiik Bulletin ” appeared, but
fancy it was in one of the December numbers.
Gordon and Gotch, Pitt-street, stock the paper
V. :It is the very tamest rhyme ever written about a
belltopper. If you can’t be humorous about the plug-
hat, you’re hopeless and your poet’s license is cancelled.
A.R. : An easy-flowing, pointless narrative that lures
the expectant reader right to the end before he realises
that he has been had. Do you imagine that we have
time to burn? G.C.B. (Victoria): Dreary stuff. Prac-
tise for 42 years on your local paper and then send us
something brief with your full name ahd address as well
as vour initials.... Doublevou :It sadly lacks point....
W. : Screed re John Bull nicely written but common-
place. Every brick in your armory has been heaved at
the oldster before.... A. Sinik : Note that in Q. “ Borne
is lying low saying nuffiin’, like the snake in the grass, or
the famished lion awaiting its prey.” Let her 1ie....
Lester S.W. : Articles dealing with “Irrigation in the
Arid Regions of Western America ” leave us as cold as
one of your great country’s clams.... Adelaide : Glad to
learn that in S. Aus. the Boy Scouts learn many useful
things. S. Aus. is lucky. In N.S.W. they merely learn
theatrical Barnum-Powellism, and travel more or less in
opposition to the cadet movement, which does aim at
“the real thing.”....G. Aitch : Well, if they are good
men, why shouldn’t Kidston re-engage teachers after
they have had a flutter in Parliament? Phoenix:
Afraid you will have to get back to your ashes again
B. Witlow : Humor seems to be your best line. Have
put the parson aside for a second inspection ; other 1«
commonplace. Write to Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
for Oman on Prosody Sapphire Smith : Verses grace*
ful, but a little uneven. Will look at them again when
the effects of the Good Friday bun have worn 0ff....
Bamboo : There are gleams in your verse ; but it won’t
pay to dig up your gleams just yet... D.C. (Sydney):
Thanks; but we can’t reprint it Moreover: The
story of Perkins is not badly done ; but, as it
stands, it is merely the bare framework of the old tale of
the man who went down, and the girl who grew tired of
waiting for him Footlight: Your poem about step-
dancing Ruby is like a few extracts from a hilarious text
book on anatomy mixed up with nine drapers’ advertise-
ments. The few enthusiastic remarks about the perfect
way her tights and stockings fit her are superfluous ; if
they didn’t fit her, she wouldn’t be on the boards—...
F. : Your sentiments are pretty awful, but the verse is
exceedingly good. So here goes :
NO.
I don’t believe in Deakin
Nor in brothers Hughes and Fisher,
And I’m fairly down on Cook;
In a careless way of speakin’
I’m a national well-wisher.
But my confidence is shook
In both the crowds who claim it.
If I had a brick I’d aim it
At all the politicians
Who have wakened my suspicions.
I am everybody’s foe
And my battle cry is “ No ! ”
Merely “ No ! ”
On the day of the election
I will prove my disaffection
For the rival “ ins ” and “ outs ’’
By walking up, or rolling,
To my proper place of polling,
And setting down my doubts
On the papers there provided
For all citizens one-sided
Who thither care to go.
Spite of pleadings and suggestions
For an answer to the questions
My feelings I will show
With a cold informal “No !”
Merely “ No ! ”
. ..S.W. (Maylands): Certainly the N.T. isn’t a Crown
coiony. What Thk Bulletin has said is that the N.T.
was merely brought under the jurisdiction of S. Australia
by letters patent, which letters may be revoked at any
time and if they are revoked the place will then be a
Crown colon v H.D.O. : A graceful trifle, but it doesn’t
seem to be about anything very definite A.W. : Re-
jected for various reasons. The wild attempt to make
“doors” rhyme with “pause” is one of them The
Beast: Behold, the poem bumpeth too remarkably.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Bancks: The newly-married man (usually standing
outside a pub) who has thrown up his job and is going
to live on the earnings of Liz or Sal has been done too
often G.V.: “ Entente Cordiale ” rather meaningless.
L.C.M. : That hen is the oldest, deadest fowl in
creation Daryl D.: The boy that you draw is evidently
the son of a jim-jam who married a Chinawoman
Warren : No good artistically, and the joke spread a dense
blanket of gloom over the office W.J.L. : Some merit
in them ; don’t remember previous tries E.H.B. :No
pood D.E.L.S.: Ditto. ..Taylor : Picture of Crookie
Scrubbs is (1) some weeks too late ; (2) no dashed good
whatsoever.... G.D. C. : Lords don’t walk about the
streets in large numbers in Australia, and your pejr
looks like a Domain loafer ...Bobs: There are some
slight points about the joke, but the picture is one of the
seven deadly sins Brad : The Chinaman is like nothing
on earth save himself, and the parson is also a perfectly
original conception. The joke, alas, isn’t Gum-
bough : The only cause of complaint is the careless and
inferior drawing.


“Ex-democratic candidates like Mr.
. Hume Cook are receiving much butter
at the hands of the Argus..
.The Greasy Candidate (miserably)—“ Its
kind of you, but I’m afraid it won’t
help me up the poll.”
GOING TO THE COUNTRY.
■‘There are 21 banks in the Common-
'» wealth, and the Labour party is
ft to destroy them all.’ - — Argus.
\
VM
■2- \ j/
TO
<r %'//,
%%\
va
•
* t» A 1!
V *
%.
%
c 3 he fabour party goes about looking :
for someth,ng to smash. It wants to ‘re- :
construct Society' with a charge of dyna-
mit e>."—Argus. 8 J
AN ENLiGHT’NING SKETCH ARTIST.
THE KISSY CANDIDATE.
“Excessive infant mortality is reported
from the North and North-Eastern dis-
" Here the candidates are busy kiss-
ing baby as usual.”— Age country report.
Is this a case of cause and effect ?
“ The democracy never went emptv-
handed to Mr. Trenwith." ” *
“ Curs ! Blackguards ! ’
the.
•ELecToRS i
vifbOW
John Murray—“ 0, turn not from me ! !
’Tis but a little Land Tax. It will
not harm you, 1 swear.”
Poor Farmer—“ That’s my deaf ear you're
talking into.'
Ex-Tribune—“ Do I dream, or is this
where I see my finish ? ”
FEDERAL POLITICS.


THE SAME OLD TRIO.
It being election time Fatman sees dimly his three old Socialistic visions: (1) The land-confiscation spectre; (2) the bank-wrecking
apparition' (3) the furniture - ste aling ghost.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Stop It!
A neglected cough or cold may lead to serious
bronchial or lung troubles. Don’t take chances,
for Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and
Colds affords perfect security from serious effects
of a cold. Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every
bottle guaranteed.*
If you are one of the unfortunate people
who suffer from chronic constipation, indigestion
or biliousness, you should take a course of Cham-
berlain’s Tablets.*
Aldekshot Smelting Works, Queensland.
Important announcement. Messrs. Pryce & Netterfield,
Auctioneers, Maryborough, Queensland, on behalf of the
Receiver for the Debenture Holders of The Queensland
Smelting Co. Limited, invite tenders for the whole or any
part, for removal, of this valuable and complete smelting
and ore dressing plant, works buildings, etc., situated at
the Aldershot Smelting Works, near Maryborough,
Queensland, such tenders to be in their hands not later
than one o’clock p.m. on Saturday, the 30th April, 1910.
The attention of all those interested in the treatment of
refractory or low-grade metallic ores is particularly in-
vited, all the appliances (many quite new), having been
kept up-to-date and complete in every respect. The
facilities for removal, either by rail or steamer, are per-
fect, as the works are situated within a few hundred
yards of the Queensland Government Railway, with a
siding into the works. The port of Maryborough is seven
miles distant, with a branch line to ship’s side, and
steamers regularly call going north and south. Corres-
pondence and inspection invited. Prompt replies to all
enquiries. We can arrange for personal visit to the above
works at any time, by request. For full catalogue and
forms of tender, apply' to Pryce & Netterfield, Auctioneers,
Stock and Station Salesmen, etc., Maryborough, Queens-
and. #
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Pressman writes:—
vte of the Inky Way are not surprised at Defence-
Minister Joe COok describing himself on his nomination
paiperasa “journalist.” W 6 know all about those long
C'oliimris which appear id the daily papers introduced
with, “Qdr representative saw Mr, Cook yesterday, and
he Said,” etc. Brit the most candid declaration is that
of rtarless . rtarrior Neild, who Sets himself down as
“ Senator. ’’ Apparently it was a choice between
“ Seriatof ” arid “No lawful Visible,” and the ex-senator
preferred to serisibly brand himself as a professional
politician—one of those artful people that so shock the
crowd he barracks for.”
Some Australian birthdays for April =
Judge Docker (N.S.W.), 68 on the Ist; Rev. Dr,
Jetferis (S.A.), 77 on the 4th ; Canon Boyce
(N.S.W.), 66, Bill Lyne 66, and ex-brewer E. T.
Smith (S. Australia’s enthusiastic sports patron),
80 on the 6th ; Parson Edgar, of Melbourne, 60 on
the Bth ; E. L. Batchelor (S. A.), 45 on the 10th ;
Chief Justice Way (S.A.), 74 on the 11th ; Lach-
lan McKinnon (Argus), 62 on the 12th ; Dr.
Quick, P.M.G., 58, and cricketer Syd Gregory, 40
on the 14th ; George Brookman (S. A.), 60, and
A. W. Meeks, chairman of the A.M.P. (Sydney),
61 on the 15th; Archdeacon Dove (S.A.), 77 on
the 19th ; L. E. Groom, 43 on the 22nd ; ex-
Speaker Cowley (Q.), 62 on the 24th; botanist
J. H. Maiden, 51 on the 25th ; Deputy P.M.
Waddy (S.A.), 62, and editor Sowden (S.A.
Register), 52 on the 26th ; J. W. Shannon (S.A.
Senate candidate), 48 on the 28th ; and Richard
Teece, of the A.M.P., 63 on the 29th.
W. O. ARCHIBALD , elected unopposed as
M.H.R. for Hindmarsh (S.A.).
Dr. Carlo Ferruccio Fiaschi, of Lithgow
(IN.S.W.), missed a V.C. in the late S’African war
by a very narrow margin. ,T. H. M. Abbott, war cor-
respondentandauthorof ‘-TommyCornstalk,’’tells
the story. Fiaschi carried a wounded privatesome
600vds., with Boer bullets zipping round him in
quantities. Then he collapsed, exhausted. A
British soldier took up the burden which Fiaschi
had laid down, staggered another hundred yards,
and fell with it at the very feet of the general.
He got the decoration which the unlucky medico
had earned. Kitchener is said to have had a high
opinion of Fiaschi. When the big soldier arrived
at Lithgow recently, he specially asked for
the man whom he had known in S’Africa, and
put in most of the time he spent in Australia’s
future arsenal conversing with him.
Shackleton contemplates another ex-
pedition to the place where the
South Polar bears would be
if there were any southern
bears. Apparently, he isn’t
after the useless Pole this
time. He is after scientific
discoveries; and, if he can
get the necessary financial
backing for the journey,
Douglas Mawson, the
young Australian of the
Adelaide University, will
go with him as scientific
director. Nobody else of
the last party impressed
Shackleton so strongly as
Mawson did, notwith-
standing that he was only
picked op at the last
iiioment. When the leader
was making arrangements
for a re ief party, in ease the
four who did the dash for
the Pole didn’t return ac-
cording to schedule, he left
sealed instructions that volun-
teers should be called for the
risky job, and that if volunteers
didn’t offer, the matter should
be settled by lot; but, mention-
ing only one man, he asked that
Douglas Mawson should be the
leader of the party. No youngster
on his first exploring expedition ever
had a bigger compliment paid him
than that.
After all the talk about Joseph
Chamberlain's improved health it
appears that he is incapable of moving
without assistance or of using his
right hand. With his left hand he made a
cross for his signature to the members’ roll in the
House of Commons last month. Any man who
has free use of his left hand can soon learn to
write his name with it, so the state of poor old
Chamberlain must be bad indeed.
Robert Harper won the slander action
that was brought against him by parson Ronald •
but, according to a piece of evidence in the later
conspiracy case, the victory cost nearly £2OOO
His solicitors’ bill was £1400'; three barristers cut
up £493 among them ; and sundry witnesses cost
£43 2s. 2d.
Reginald Tuckett, whose firm figured in a
big way in Melbourne’s land boom 20 vears ago
helped himself out one day last week. 'The busi-
ness was founded by Hugh Gemmell, who, after
10 years spent in Dementia, came to Melbourne
iti 1856 (ind attached hiroself to Dickson and
Co,, one of the oldest of Melbourne merchant
firms. In 18G1 he commenced business as an
auctioneer in Collins-street, near the Bank of New
South Wales, in partnership with one McCaul.
In a few years McCaul went to England, and then
11. Tuckett came in, and the firm thereafter
was Gemmell, I uckett and Co. The founder went
to Paradise in January, 1880, being then aged 52
years.
Jean S. : Vida Goldstein, Vic. candidate
for the Senate, provides an argument against the
theory that females are always conservative. She
is a strong Protectionist and Nationalist She
opposes the Twenty-five Bob Fraud, and favors
elective Ministries, a Federal land-tax, and in-
crease of the Federal power. Also she declares
for equality of law for men and women, and an
amendment of the divorce and marriage laws.
Yet has she a hard row to hoe in her assault upon
the Senate. Her sex is against her, her strongest
opponents being, of course, women. Many
females call her a “hussy ” without meaning any-
thing more than that she is far too clever to be a
woman, and a lot too brilliant to be a “lady.”
Thomas Machattie, the medical man who
made the appalling blunder whereby a fellow-
doctor narrowly missed getting hanged or gaoled
issomethingof a figure inßathurst(N.S. W.). He is
that stagnant old town’s most excited Imperialist.
One of his strongest suits in the empire-preserving
line is the periodical haranguing of defenceless
infants in re the Flag. At this practice or
pastime he excels. He is a species of
bucolic Bruce Smith. He is a Foreign-trader,
an anti-Socialist, a Fusionist or any other old
thing that the anti-Labor candidate for his
constituency happens to be. He attended the
recent Hen-and-Harmonium Raid in S’Africa and
returned unscathed. He exhibits trotting horses
at the local Show, and by his demeanor contrives
subtlyto suggest that, lacking his countenance, the
Show, and indeed all Bathurst, would be liable to
Burst.
An Irish item :
High Sheriff, Michael O’Loghlen, baronet pre-
sided at the recent election for West Clare (Ireland) the
only candidate nominated being the ex-member, Colonel
Lynch, who went through the solemn mockery of a trial
for high treason and was condemned to death a few years
ago at the Old Bailey. The sentence was commuted to
imprisonment for life, but in less than 12 months the
Colonel was released. He had been elected for an Irish
constituency when in France, and on coming to London
to take his seat he was captured. The High Sheriff is a
native of Melbourne, son of Bryan O’Loghlen, Premier
etc. On the death of his father, a few years ago, he went
back to the Green Isle to take possession of the family
home, Drumconora, at Ennis, in the county of Clare and
was chosen High Sheriff for the present year. Colonel
Lynch is also a native of Victoria, a journalist who has
seen some travel. His high treason consisted in com-
manding a Boer regiment in the great unpleasantness
during which so many African hens lost their lives.
“Vic” writes:—
The death of James Smith rips open the whole history
of Melbourne journalism. To be sure there were heroes
before Agamemnon, and there was over a decade of Vic-
torian journalism before Smith. The names that survive
from that period are those of Fawkner, Cavenagh (of the
Hheald), “Garryowen” Finn, King (of the Argus), and
an eccentric, clever reporter named Jack Curtis. Smith
begun, locally, with the beginning of the Age in 1854.
Cooke Brothers were the founders and proprietors The
slashing writers were Ebenezer Svme and David Blair
both from the Argus. There was" also William Bright’
founder of “My Note Book,” not to be confounded with the
better-known Charles Bright. Smith remained when the
Age fell into the hands of the co-partnery, and was still
there under E. and D. Syme. He went to the Argus in
1858, and served about 40 years ; then back to the Age
Like editor Windsor, who also worked for both Argus
and Age, he was never a newsy man. He was no good for
anything snappy or immediate, and was rather impaired
by vast literary accumulations—prodigious scaffoldings
of the mind. Yet he stood in the first line of our local
eminence, if not at the head of all. I suppose David
Syme was a greater man, but Smith had a grander spirit
of citizenship. There is positively no movement of local
advance, in an intellectual way, where he did not bear a
hand. His 'literary style was unsurpassably beautiful in
a Washington Irving manner. Nor was there always the
bookish texture. He could get away to Mother Nature :
for proof, sample his work in the “ Picturesque Atlas of
Australasia.”
THE GREAT FUSED
BITE.
Cleaned up his last prospect, Frank
Daglev, who was Duncan Gillies’ mate on the
Dead Horse Lead in the early days of Victoria.
“ Talking Duncan” took to politics and became a
disastrous Premier of Victoria ; while Frank and
his brother Alfred followed the will-o’-the-wisp
all over Australasia. For the past 23 years they
have been settled near Charters Towers, in
Bananaland.
“H.G.”: The chief social quality of
artist Sass, whose show has been raging all last
week, is his abounding charity. He suffers from
the peripatetic cadger. Wherever Sass is, there
you may see the I O U’s of the younger genera-
tions of artists in large masses. Callers eat as
much of his foodstuffs as he does himself. Indigent
friends regard his premises as a free hostelry.
Some of the breed abide most of their lean times
with him, and when he gets up in the morning he
mostly finds one using his shaving soap and razor
and another absently drinking his fluid property.
Besides being pal, adviser, father, uncle and
guardian to these folk, he has constituted himself
their art instructor. And he has been a good one.
The S. M. Herald had to do some resur-
recting on its own account on Easter Saturday.
On Good Friday it killed R. T. Donaldson, State
member for Wynyard. Fortunately, it added
that he had been a very good' fellow. Next
day it was “Mr. Donaldson, M.L.A., we
are glad to say, is alive and quite well.”
The Donaldson whom it couldn’t resurrect
was a storekeeper of Tumbarumba. It didn’t
happen quite like that with Captain John
Strachan, to whom, the same week, the
Herald had been condemned to pay £lOOO as
damages for a libel. A few years ago a Tas-
manian paper foolishly said that Captain John
had been drowned, which was proof in itself that
it knew the ancient mariner imperfectly ; and it
added a few remarks which, when John turned
up, cost it a good few hundreds. The text,
“Speak nothing of the dead but good,” is now
hungup in both those paper offices. It has its
points, too. They may not be dead.
“ Oby ” : James Smith, the eminent Mel-
bourne pressman who has just passed out at the
age of 90 years, was really a man of moods, though
outwardly he carried himself as a pattern of
equability. He was on occasions as uncivil and
intractable as a wild cat, and on others as suave
and gentle as a newly-whipped school-girl of the
olden time—and without any sufficient reason to
justify the change of humor. If you wanted a
book from his French library you one day re-
ceived it with gracious courtesies, but on the next
occasion you got a ,ciirt “ No.” But take him
after he had been applauded for some of his
spiritualistic vaporings, and 10 to 1 he would lend
you his hat or trousers. Sometimes in his
excesses of good nature he hit a genuinely good
and useful object. It was in one of these intervals
that he struck Richard Birnie, a derelict in a Mel-
bourne old men’s home, and planted him on the
staff of the Australasian. Birnie, who was a
Cambridge University man and a barrister of
repute, had retired from the use of intellect, and
was vegetating in the home, where he would soon
have died had not Smith spurred him to the
weekly supply of essays which gave information
and delight to thousands of readers.
H. S. Smythe on the late James Smith :
The keenest and most impartial of Australian theatrical
critics arrived in Melbourne at a lucky moment. It was
a few months before the advent of G. V. Brooke ; and
James Smith’s articles in the Agf,, which were really
essays on'the dramas in which Brooke appeared, as well
as critiques on the famous tragedian’s acting, attracted
more attention than even the brilliant leaders of Ebenezer
Syme and David Blair. In those “brisk and gaily-paced
times ” many pressmen were Bohemians ; but, although
Smith moved among them, he was not of them.
He always “preserved the dignity of his calling.”
The crowd that rushed to the bar between the acts never
included Smith, who remained with his wife in the pri-
vate box kept for his exclusive occupation by a con-
siderate management. It was the speech-and-testimonial
age, and the custom extended to the theatre. At the
close of Brooke’s first, second, third, fourth and last fare-
well seasons a knot of admirers would assemble on the
stage, and a cordial congratulatory address would be
delivered. To this the star of the evening, moved almost
to tears, would make a touching reply. Both address
and reply had been written by Smith. For 40
years Smith was the most useful member of the
Argus staff. He could write well on any subject,
and then he went to bed, not knowing, like a doctor,
when he would be called up. He lived close to the
Hawthorn station, and was always ready to write a lead-
ing article on the latest cable. During the latter half of
his long life a spiritualistic kink interfered seriously with
Smith’s journalistic career. The editor could never be
sure that in an article upon an y subject the craze would not
creep in. He was a tremendous worker, the greatest
I ever knew. And he had a kind heart—was ever ready
to do a friend a service. I sat at the same desk with him
in the Age office the day after I landed in Melbourne.
Fifty-five years later, when on the 12th of March I made
my last weekly call, in reply to my inquiry as to how
he felt, he said : “ Slowly dying.” He died that day week.
Archbishop Wright and actor Higginson
are amongst the most recent motor-car acquirers.
—News item.
He, the Archbishop, mounts his car and goes
So fast he little of the poor can see ;
Less sacerdotal in His beggar’s clothes,
The Master footed it in Galilee.
R-s.w. R. Crawford.
When Admiral Bosanquet, Governor of
S. Aus., was making a journey through newly-
settled agricultural land at the top of Eyre’s
Peninsula a few weeks ago his party met a soli-
tary teamster miles away from anywhere, When
the man found out who the Admiral was he stood
up in his dray, called for three cheers for the
Governor, and gave them all by himself. Then
he drove on. He had done his little bit towards
saving the Empire.
The Commonwealth, through George Reid,
has received from D. E. Alves the gift of
Gribble’s “Our Golden Argosies,” exhibited at
the Royal Academy in 1907. Mr. Duncan Elliott
Alves is getting on. A few years ago, being then
very small potatoes, he took to England a Vic-
torian smoke-consumer for flotation. There is no
sign that it has since consumed much smoke, but
the man who had it in hand fell in with Newnes
and Harms worth and the like, made himself very
agreeable, got large underwriting commissions,
etc., in connection with the Commonwealth Oil
Corporation float, and the other day blossomed
among lords and viscounts as a director and pro-
moter of that B.ritish New Guinea Development
Co. which took a bite of close upon a quarter-
million of promotion capital out of the public.
The Bulletin doesn’t know “Our Golden
Argosies” personally. It may turn out to be
half-a-cwt. of prospectuses.
Three bishops—Barker, Barry and Smith
—pillowed their heads in one or other of the
spacious apartments at Bishopscourt, Randwiek
(Sydney), which is now for sale. Broughton, the
first bishop, prayed over the foundation-stone, and
put £l5OO into the holy structure. The Govern-
ment of the day put in another £l5OO. But
Broughton had to live in Goderich, Bayswater-
road, Darlinghurst. Now Archbishop Wright,
the new import, condemns the old pile, and
has taken the Deanery, near St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, for his nest. Bishopscourt has already
been roared from the auctioneer’s rostrum, but
the responses were very small. The fate of the
property has not yet been decided. Perhaps the
Government may yet take it for a State purpose—
it would do well for a Foundling Hospital; Or-
monde House and Moorecliff, other historic places,
are now State-owned—or perhaps the Churches
will grab it, as Lyndhurst Hall and Toxteth
Mansion were grabbed ; or perhaps it will lapse
to a hashery, where, instead of the odor of
sanctity, the odor will be that of steak and onions.
ROBERT HARPER, OF VICTORIA.
An ancient black identity of Harwood and
Chatsworth (Clarence River, N.S.W.) joined a
long line of King Billies in the heavenly gum tree
a couple of weeks ago. He was known as ‘ ‘ Old
Johnny Cap,” and his age is alleged to have been
anything between 90 and 100 years. He had been
known as “Old Johnny” for the past 40 years,
during which time he made his headquarters on
Harwood Island. Settlers who went on the land
thereabouts as young fellows half a century agone
remember the old chap as a more than middle-
aged native then with a “plenty pflour bag”
thatch.
A STAVE OF “LIBERAL” COUNSEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Bruce Smith completed g busy electioneering week
before the beginning of the Easter holidays. The Tues-
day meeting at Burwood was a particularly representa-
tive one, terminating in a resolution calling upon his
opponent to retire from the contest.—Sydney Tkleqrai-h
(28/3/10).
If you happen to be doubtful of success,
And electors will not look at things a-right,
It is wise to make a passionate address,
Calling on the other chap to chuck the fight.
When your prospects of six hundred pounds a year
Look like vanishing, this is the thing to do—
If you need the coin—just get your rival’s ear,
Arid suggest that he should leave the job to you.
rifore riaitriral, irt politics, than that
An' op’porient shodld agree to the request ?
All that’s needed is’ to put it to him flat-=
And his sense of decency m'ust do' the rest.
If, by chance, the selfish ruffian should persist
In his candidature, then make loud, long wail,
And denounce him as a “ rank disloyalist ”
And “a traitor,” who is clean “ outside the pale.”
It is true such tactics do not always go
(There are types with whom the Righteous cannot
oope);
Yet stick to them all the same for all you know—
In some eases they’re about the only hope.
W.9,w,
10-2-4.


¥ /?
S /y
t* : k
b- W&-
if,
VstfiX
m-m
i >
J .*'* ,' - ) ,-■
r
//
m
pfim :
i ' I' r
<7
w-\
%V'l:C7iL s " oK ‘*C^f
V 7 ‘•U
;w*S
1
. •
iW
.•
iT
‘
-•«
#
✓
=1
-
1
/
s^'S
■a
iSPs*®-
iWMi
3.. I
■MV
'"‘“‘•“W—Ml#' VT!
m
■'■:■
7?
.
4jy
* jBP«&
AL£K
<
S®
r
"Ike Really Imporlarvl Facior.
She,.— " Orvce I said tkat 1 would never marry a
man wko smoked."
lie. ”Ak ,t,Kat was before you found Ike
rigkt man."
Ske.— ’’No —tke .Wokl 'tobacco.'
N. 5. He smokes VICE*REGAL
Smoking Mi*Wre.
Vice-Reg>al Tobacco and Cig'arettes
The famous brand of W. D. H. O. Wills.


The Magic Healer —
Chase’s Universal Ointment
Chase’s Universal Ointment is the latest and
greatest advance of Science. Its remarkable sooth-
ing and healing qualities have earned for it a place
unique in the history of ointments. It gives
instant relief in all cases where pain is present, is
thoroughly antiseptic, and heals quickly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is composed of the
rarest materials by a perfected process known only
to the proprietors. It destroys all germ life instantly,
thus paying the way for a speedy and certain cure.
Burns, scalds, cuts, bruises, abrasions, swellings,
sprains, bites from animals and insects, boils, acne,
pimples, carbuncles, poisoned wounds, festering
sores, corns, piles and old wounds, all yield to the
soothing and healing influence of Chase’s Universal
Ointment.
No home should be without Chase’s Universal
Ointment. It is sold in large jars at 3/6. Send us a
Postal Note for that amount to-day, and we will
immediately forward you the ointment bv return
post, postage paid. Send the order now. Address it:
The Ridgway Society, Box 1700, C. P. 0., Sydney.
A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION, begotten of sedentary
habits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver and oilier
organs. The best remedy for this undesirable state of
affairs is to stimulate the activity of the whole bodilv
economy by taking a wineglassful "of “Hunyadi Janos”
natural aperient water every morning.*
Rexona Cured Ringworms.
“My little girl suffered from ringworms for over
two months,” writes Mrs. C. L. Gilder, of 18
Addison Road, Marrickville, N.S.W. “ I used
Rexona on them, and they were cured in a few
days.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Business men should take an occasional
dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets; they clear the
brain.*
A WAY TO DUKE
RHEUMATISM.
♦
How to Get Rid of the Cause
of the Complaint*
o
A treatment for rheumatism that aims at
driving out of the system the cause of the com-
plaint is certainly the common-sense way of deal-
ing with the disease. Acid in the blood is recog-
nised by manv authorities as the cause of the
trouble. It has been found that when this acid
has been driven from the system that rheumatism
is cured. Treatment of rheumatism with Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills has been remarkably success-
ful, because they actually make new blood, build-
ing up the system to a point that enables it to
throw off the rheumatic poison.
Miss A. Fletcher, Hay Street, Subiaco, Perth,
has been cured of rheumatism by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and her statement to a reporter should
be of interest to other sufferers.
“I caught a heavy cold, which settled on me,
and then rheumatism set in,” said Miss lletcher.
“It started in both legs and spread as far as my
knees, and afterwards it affected my arms. I
would be in bed for several days, and then I’d get
about with a stick. I could not bend my knees,
they were so stiff. I suffered acute darting pains
all through my limbs. I couldn’t use my hands,
they were so knotted in the fingers. I had to sit
about the house all day, I couldn’t get about
except by hobbling. I had nagging pains all the
time. I was suffering for about six months when
a lady friend told me to try Dr. Williams Pink
Pills. I got some from one of the West Perth
grocers, and the first box helped me. I started
with one pill after each meal, and it only needed
two boxes to drive the rheumatism completely out
of my system. The stiffness and soreness began to
go out of my knees. I began to get about without
the aid of a stick, and the use of my hands came
back. I’ve not had a trace of them since Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills cured me.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are good for any com-
plaint that a supply of rich, red blood is good for,
but one needs to be careful to get the genuine, as
substitutes sometimes offered are useless. I hey
are sold by most chemists and storekeepers, price
2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. ; or if they can-
not be obtained locally will be sent post free on
receipt of price by the Dr. Williams .Medicine
Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
!*Mte
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps, *
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(ovp- Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
If two recent minor elections are a criterion,
the writing is already on the wall for the
Fusionists in Victoria. In the election for South
Melbourne’s representative on the Harbor Trust,
on the ratepaying franchise, the retiring member
was beaten by a Labor man ; while to fill Anstey’s
place at Brunswick, Laborite Jewell, quite un-
known outside his district, polled 3885 votes to
Hickford’s 2429. Yet Hickford is well known,
and had held the seat in one State Parliament.
THE REAL GENERAL OF THE FUSION
PARTY MAKES A FEW REMARKS.
The Deakin-Cook policy is our policy.... In the
Federal fight our two captains have sunk their petty
differences, and have united under one flag to fight
against the domination of the Socialistic party.... The
great Liberal press everywhere is ranged on our side....
We must by word and deed do all we can to gain a
glorious victory. —Tory Speech.
The Pastoralists’ Review re-discovers
what The Bulletin discovered some time ago—
that the area under cultivation in various States
of Australia is actually decreasing :
In Victoria (in 1909) there was less area under wheat
than there was 10 years ago ; of oats than six years ago ;
of barley than 28 years ago ; of potatoes than 21 years
ago ; of vines than 18 .years ago ; and so on.
And from that the Review concludes:—
By this time it must be apparent to every farmer in
Australia that his interests are directly opposed to those
of Labor or Socialism.
Of course. For isn’t it the Labor party that holds
the big areas of uncultivated land, and won’t let
the farmers’ sons go on them, except at ruinous
prices? And isn’t it the Labor party which,
already owning vast areas, seizes every chance to
add to those areas by snapping up farms when
they are offering ? And don’t the other big
landlords struggle to have a progressive land-tax
put on so as to compel themselves to break up
their estates into farms and force the land into
cultivation ; and doesn’t the Labor party stop
them? Of course, the scarcity of farms is the
Labor party’s fault—nothing plainer.
There are six letters in Fusion. Three of
them are I O U and the other three are N. S. F.
The S. M. Herald lately quoted the his-
torian Lecky:—
Few national diseases are more insidiousin their march,
more difficult to arrest, more disastrous in their ultimate
consequences. The immediate stimulus given by a new
loan masks its ultimate and permanent effects, and if the
interest alone is paid out of taxation the increase is at
first scarcely perceptible. The credit which a nation
enjoys on the Stock Exchange is a deceptive test, for the
finance of the market seldom looks beyond the prospects
of a few years. A false security grows up until the nation
at last slowly finds it has entered irretrievably on the
path of decadence.
And yet the Herald firmly believes that the
States should retain all their old borrowing
powers, so that no difficulty may be put in the road
of their irretrievable decay.
Extract from the report of Sammy Mauger’s
meeting at Moonee Ponds (Victoria) one evening
lately :
An Elector : Why has the Protectionist Association not
met for 15 months ? (Cheers.)
The Candidate: My answer is that the Protectionist
Association has not met because another organisation has
been formed—the Commonwealth Liberal party. (Loud
laughter.)
Seeing that the Commonwealth Liberal party is
composed of those determined Protectionists
Joe Cook, Fuller, Fairbairn, Knox, Johnson,
Wilks, Kelly, Foxton, Bruce Smith, etc., what
better Protectionist society than that could you
have? It is really shameful to ask Mr. Manger
such frivolous, vexatious and even disconcerting
questions.
This from the Foreign-trade Sydney
Telegraph (24/3/TO): —
If the Commonwealth is to subsidise aviators, such
assistance should be limited to those who use locally-manu-
factured machines. Such is the feeling in many quarters.
Experimenters are the ones who should be encouraged
rather than those gentlemen who are using foreign
machines. These foreign machines are not demonstrat-
ing any new principle, while there is abundance of local
inventive genius which can use the foreign machines as
a starting point for advance—if funds are forthcoming.
This fact was borne upon the writer when he visited
the other day the home of two young Australian
mechanical engineers. There, extending from the front
bedroom, right through the dining-room, and into the
enclosed verandah beyond, was a completed full-size
aeroplane ready fora trial flight. And this in a terrace
house in one of Sydney’s most thickly-populated suburbs !
The 20-horse-power engine had been turned on a little
lathe near the window. The machine was of the Bieriot
type, except that the framework was made of steel
tubes instead of wood ; and the engine was water-cooled
instead of air-cooled. When the propeller was set going
everything that was not fixed was immediately flying
about the room, so great was the current of air from the
propeller blades. Had it not been that the machine
itself was tied to the floor by leather thongs, it would
certainly have done damage to the ceiling. These two
young experimenters are more worthy of encouragement
than a person who, being possessed of wealth, imports a
foreign machine which demonstrates no neiv principle.
Foreign goods not to be subsidised ! Austra-
lians to be encouraged ! ! Local manufactures
to be used !!! Shades of Cobden and Whiskers
Ward ! ! !
William Trenwith, ex-Senator of Victoria,
is now paying the penalty of his defection to the
Fuse. The other night he tried to speak at his
old stronghold of Richmond ; but what he said
was mostly inaudible, and what he thought was
probably unfit for publication.
He stood the tempest for about
an hour, for no one ever accused
Trenwith of lack of courage —
he even lit a cigar and loafed
contemptuously in full view of
the infuriated audience—but
eventually he arose in frenzy
and called the whole com-
munity “curs,” “blackguards ”
and “ unmanly cowards.” Soon
after which the meeting dis-
persed.
William Lyne has been a
very sick man for many days
past, and the Fuse party almost
began to hope that in his
period of compulsory silence
Bernard Grogan was making
headway. But the old political
elephant struggled on to the
platform last week to announce simply and plainly
that in future his vote would go with Labor, and
the thud that came after was the sound of
Grogan’s lower jaw striking a hard world.
At a shivoo in honor of the visit of the
Japanese training ships to Brisbane Admiral
Ijichi talked this way :
Although he had been in Australia before, it was his
first trip to Brisbane. Some of his officersh id been there
before, however. He could assure them that some of his
officers were well acquainted with Australian waters.
The worst of it is that, though the Admiral
might assure Brisbane, the knowledge doesn’t
reassure Australia.
From London Daily Mirror :
Six more Chinese from the steamer Dardanus, making
26 in all, were yesterday refused admission to England by
the Liverpool Immigration Board.
It transpired that the men were to be emplo3'ed in
Chinese laundries, the proprietors of which sent them
money to defray their expenses from China, which the
men were to repay by their labor.
The,chairman, Sir Thomas Hughes, said that the system
was a terrible one, as the men were practically enslaving
themselves.
Yet when the Australian Labor party blocked the
importation of cheap contract labor, what a howl
there was ! The ignorant Tory declared that such a
thing as the “Six Hatters” hold-up couldn’t have
happened anywhere else in the world. Yet here
is exactly the same law, applied, notin Australia,
but in England—the England which Australia was
told would weep drops of blood over the appalling
Australian outbreak.
Henry Studnieza, the United States’ special
agent who is investigating the British labor
problem, found the answer to the conundrum
waiting for him on the wharf :
The condition of the English worker, of his home and
of his children, is pitiable. The workman’s family must
dress in rags and economise to the veriest limit in order
to enable the wage-earner to keep fit at all. The unem-
ployed have jammed the Labor Exchanges. The matter
ends there, as work is not to be had.
“ The American worker is 100 per cent, better off
compared with the British,” added Studnieza—
the protected American, who first of all has his
own big market secured to himself, and who then,
if he has any production leftover, can afford to sell
this balance at a comparatively low price to the
British and other foreigners. But the Freetrade
British have no trade secured to themselves. At
home they are up against the competition of the
foreigner’s bargain-counter sales all the time;
abroad they are up against his tariff walls.
Even the London Times has heard now of
that multitudinous Australian employer who
people “with™. epco„,br.„,e.” and it
bearing age. This country’s reputation is getting
on _
MORE HOG FEED.
Our policy is one of prosperity. —Alfred Deakin.
ELECTOR: “I see you are still fattening the old
hog, Deakin.”
The superiah Winter-Cooke has a hard
row to hoe in Wannon (Vic.). Cooke holds
enough land to keep a hundred families ; and,
though the big landlords approve of him accord-
ingly, this absurd Constitution gives a vote to
men and not to acres. And then McDougall, his
opponent, is so disappointing. He is a farmer
who was the one acknowledged Greek scholar in
the last House ; and when your Labor opponent
reads the classics in the originals it is so
awkward not to be able to throw the old familiar
clod at the “ ignorance ” of the Labor party.
The Customs prohibition of the importa-
tion of huge wheat sacks has resulted in a fairly
general use of the Chapman wheat sack (2001 b.),
but the use is only fairly general. The failure of
the lazy or inhuman State Governments to pro-
hibit the carriage of monstrosities on the railway
allows the bloated and stupendous bag to be
locally manufactured and circulated inside the
country, and maize and other produce still goes
around at times in a jute overcoat that looks like
a cathedral. Chapman, by the way, well deserved
his unopposed return. He has done good service
to the Labor cause. His sack is his monument.
Mr. Cole is the Fused candidate for West
Sydney (N.S.W.). Last Saturday he stated his
views on finance, and the S. M. Herald reprinted
them thus (the italics and capitals are thrown in
gratis by The Bulletin) :
With respect to nationalising industries, they must have
a proper scheme before they could launch out on such an
adventure. “ The only scheme,” said Mr. Cole, “ that I
know of is the State bank, with an issue of paper
money. But that nearly ruined America.” They
must be able to have gold equal to their payer money to be
on equal terms ivith other countries, AND WHEN THEY
ISSUED PAPER MONEY THEREFOR THEY SHOULD
BE ABLE TO PAY 275. IN THE £, FOR IN PAPER
MONEY A ONR-POUND NOTE WAS REALLY WORTH
IN CASH ONLY 15s. IN OTHER COUNTRIES
WHERE TRADE WAS BEING CARRIED ON BY
THE COUNTRY ISSUING THE PAPER MONEY.
In this Slate the Government insisted that the
banks should have so much gold in their safes to meet a
rush, and so a country with paper money must tax its
people to have enough gold behind the issue of paper to,
meet all demands from other countries. Dealing with
the question of Defence, Mr. Cole said that many years
ago Australia was an isolated continent, but with the
advances of science, and the great shipping facilities,
necessity arose for a sound foundation in the preparation
for defence.
Exactly how a good £1 note comes to be. worth only
155., and how that makes it necessary to hold 275.
against it, and exactly when the N.S.W. Govern-
ment legislated to make the local banks bold “so
much gold in their safes to meet a rush,” and what
ruinous American “ State ” bank Mr. Cole is talk-
ing of—all these things are dark mysteries, and
the X-ray of coherence has not yet shone upon
them.
MR. BRUCE SMITH’S FEATURES.
Picture postcards of approved candidates are being
distributed by the Women’s Liberal League. The idea is
novel. It gives electors an opportunity of familiarising
themselves with the features of candidates, and incident-
ally of learning their virtues ; for each card shows ten
reasons why the league supports the candidate. The
“ whys” in Mr. Bruce Smith’s case produce the following
“beeauses”: —Because he is the selected Fusion candi-
date ; because he is a man of high character ; because he
is a man of conspicuous ability ; because he is a true
Liberal ; because he is a patriotic citizen ; because he
has the courage of his convictions; because he preserves
individual liberty ; because he sets forth a high standard
of national life ; because he supports all truly Liberal
measures in Federal politics ; because he stands not for
any class, but for the whole community.— Sydney Tele-
graph.
Scripture lesson from Brisbane Worker :
And, after selling his country to the Pharisees for 25
pieces of silver, Judas went to Ballarat on the 13th day
of April, and hanged himself at the bottom of the poll.
Sectarianism is tip-toeing about in Vic-
torian electorates. The tactics pursued are of the
usual character—that is to say they consist of the
usual house-to-house visits by sti-
pendiary liars. These gentlemen float
about the suburbs and drop bits of
gossip designed to play on the reli-
gious bias of their dupes. If, for in-
stance, they strike an R.C. female
they mention in passing that Blank,
the Democratic candidate, was once
of the R.O. faith, but is now an
apostate. If, for another instance,
they collide with a valiant Orange
lady, they just whisper that Blank
is a tool of the Jesuits. Methods like
these are being employed to assist
one or two Fused candidates in the
present campaign. In the last cam-
paign they were said to be introduced
with great success by some of the
canvassers for brother Knox of the
Hat. Knox’s opponent was casually
represented as being a “ bigoted
R.C.,” “a bigoted Orangeman,” “a
godless Freethinker,” or “a violent
Atheist,” according to what way the
vote was wanted to jump. And all
the time he was a broad-minded citizen, whose
religious opinions wouldn’t harm a fly.
The Fusion seems to love renegades. In
no less than four of the States ex-leaders of the
Labor party are making heavy weather under the
patchwork flag of the Fusion. One is Joe Cook ;
two others are Trenwith and Glassey, candidates
for the Senate in Victoria and Bananaland ; the
fourth is Hastie, of Coolgardie (W.A.). Also
Charleston, who used to be a Labor man, is one of
thfe Fuse’s nominees for the Senate in South Aus.;
and Fowler, of Perth, deserves worse luck than
he seems likely to get there.
THE FORTY-SEVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Despite the alleged fact that 47 freetrade candidates
are to stand in the Fusion interest at the forthcoming
Federal elections, the Argus declares (10/3/’10) that “ the
electors are not disturbed. Mr. Deakin and the foremost
Protectionists of the day have given their assurance that
the tariff is safe.”
The fatted Fused elector leaps not .vet upon his brilliant
cady,
Nor plumb’s ill-temper’s utter deeps in words not used
before a lady;
Protection —his own special brand, at least—is safe as
good brick houses,
Although, of course, you understand, the mention of
Protection rouses
Some talk where Fused electors be,
And staunch Freetraders all agree
That in a good House we should see
A little Freetrade leaven. ...
Well, then—how’s forty-seven?
The Fused elector is not stirred by any weird, wild,
strange forebodings ;
7/c’ll take the straight, loud Fusion word —small need for
grand old gran’ma’s goadings !
The fiscal faith of Henry Fat, of Jimmy Calico and so on,
The Fusion’s own good faith—why, that is what Australia
has to go on !
Aye [so the Fused elector swears],
No really sane elector cares
To see a House of Great Affairs
Without some Freetrade leaven. . . .
About —er —forty-seven ?
Do we believe ? Of course we do ! We put our trust in
Alf serenely.
And we undoubtedly [Hear, hear !] regard the future far
from meanly.
Yet... something.. says the good old Fusion’s good old
piebald pull is busted —
That language of a purple hue is heard from those who
saw, disgusted,
The turning of Freetection’s coat;
That something, when it’s time to vote,
Will stick in Bill Australia’s throat—
This lump of Freetrade leaven,
The fighting forty-seven !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
THE RESPECTED PEERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord Curzon said the natives of India held the House
of Lords in deep veneration and respect.— Cable.
So, despite all the sneers re the Chamber of Peers,
Where the Ganges flows sacred and muddy
Deep respect fairly spurts, or so Curzon asserts,
In the bosom of lowly Ram Chuddy.
Ne’er for Baron Paleale shall his deep homage fail—
Soodgee Bhag of the legs bare and lanky—
With the sacred cow’s tail, and dead Buddha’s toe-nail
Shall he honor the Marquis of Swanky.
Now, I understand quite why a Juggins that’s white
For the Lords should have deep veneration.
There, disguised with a crest, we well know that they
rest —
The great Authors of Booze for the Nation !
O, delicious nut-brown, that our sorrows doth drown,
Well-beloved from first cabin to steerage !
But S. Bhag doesn’t drink, so I really can’t think
What on earth lie can see in the Beerage.
N.S.W.
NHLLA


4r*
mm
iaS
No better Organs
than the Estey
are manufac-
tured.
They are the
result of over
60 years experi-
ence.
We sell them at
all prices from
£lO s O : O.
Catalogue and
price list shew-
ing' easy terms
on application.
PALING’S,
33£ GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
100
LIPP PIANOS
Built on tlie experience gained
during' 70 years of continuous
manufacturing', Lipp Pianos
are guaranteed to stand true
as a rocK in any climate.
TBeir tone is bright and clear,
and of that singing cfuality
so greatly admired by all
musicians.
Their touch is light and
responsive, and their case
designs very handsome.
We sell these Pianos on Easy
Terms, and Catalogues are free
for the asKing'.
If you have an old piano, we
will taKe it in part payment for
a new piano.
W. H. PALING® Co.
11 LIMITED -
338 George Street, Sydney,
112
ACCORDIONS
t]
v.
ALL PRICES FROM 7/6
IMPERIAL BRAND from ... tO/-
CHROMATIC ACCORDIONS
from 25
CONCERTINAS
GERMAN CONCERTINAS.
Single-toned from 3/6
Organ-toned from 9/-
ANGLO-GERMAN CONCERTINAS.
From 25/-
Steel Reeds from 31/6
ENGLISH CONCERTINAS.
From 70/ to £2l
CATALOGUES FREE.
WRITE FOR ONE,
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST..
SYDNEY. 107
IpiM* EflifflW ®fITFIfS,
BDCHIT* flUffi P
Melb?ume,S,B.
or
li(«
m
/
&
I,H ''V /
4
/
rfl
%/
/////'
"I
f
Phi
W‘“.
///
/
'T^sy
RlDiftCß
0
TOLO BREECHES'
SBITEim I
Cahtooh.
n
! 1
I WRITE
i EOS.
MEASURE
-JDJMS
&
EAtihoc
s
L
The Edison Phonograph places
the Best Music of the World’s
Best Artists at Your Disposal.
At any time you feel inclined, with the aid of the Edison
Phonograph, you can have precisely the same music, rendered
to perfection by the same artists, as may be heard in the
World's greatest musical centres.
Grand opera, high-class orchestral and instrumental selec-
tions, famous songs by concert artists, dialogue and comic songs,
by the recognised leaders in these branches, all come within
the scope of
The Edison Phonograph,
and add pleasure to any gathering. Every taste is catered for, and everv
demand fulfilled. * y
Much of the World's best music has heretofore been too lonor f or any
record of any sound-reproducing instrument. If used, it had to & be cut or
hurried. Such music, executed as the composer intended it, is now offered
in Edison Amberol Records.
Amberol Records play twice as long as standard Edison Records and
longer than any other records of any kind. ’
Any Edison dealer will play these new Amberol Records for you and
supply you with both Phonograph and Records. Any dealer will change
your present Phonograph to play both standard Edison Records and
Amberols. Ask your dealer, or write to us for Catalogues of Edison Phono-
graphs and Records.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.


to H.M. Kj
&
Charles Heidsiech
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
FINEST EXTRA Q?
Dandruff is a very common affliction, but
this fact does not make it any less undesirable.
It is, undoubtedly, most unpleasant to see the
beauty of a well-arranged coiffure marred by any-
thing so unsightly. Those who are afflicted try
one thing after another, hoping to find a remedy
that will banish it for ever. But they fail every
time.
There is only one cure—expert individual
treatment. There is no ease of dandruff that will
not yield to the Hygeia Individual Treatment,
which is prescribed for each patient by the
President, Mrs. Cowling, the Hair Specialist,
She may be consulted, free of charge, any day but
Saturday between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednes-
day between C and 7. Those who cannot call
may write, enclosing Bd. stamp to cover postage,
etc. Letters may be addressed to the President,
Dept. B, Hygeia Limited, Ocean House, Moo.e
Street, Sydney.*
>
Robuß
My word! when you’ve to
run a boarding-house for a living,
you’ve to keep expenses down
and get good value for every
penny, or you’ll find yourself
sold up before you know where
you are—and yet, mind you, it
doesn’t pay to go in for cheap
things boarders won’t stand
it—they’ll leave.
Now, tea’s one of the things
1 pride myself on. 1 give my
people as good a cup of tea as
they’d get anywhere. The No. 2
Grade Robur, is the only tea
l use 1 order it fresh every
week —and l see that it’s properly
made, and that’s the main thing
—it has a mild, pleasant flavor,
and is wonderfully saving tea
to use.
Some housekeepers say that
the No. 1 Grade is the best
to use, but 1 find the No. 2
Grade plenty good enough for
my people.
The Boarding-House Keeper.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
& WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March 29, 1910.
My Dear Ahini,—-
I see that a Mrs. Mackinnon and a lady of the
good old British name of Bogue Luffmann have
been entertaining hundreds of East Sydney electors
at “ At Homes ” (all expenses, I presume, being
paid by the “Liberal” Party) in furtherance of the
candidature of Mr. S. E. Lees. What a sure
draw this “At Home” business is! In every
city and town there seems to exist a huge class of
females with keen social longings and no means
to gratify them. They yearn like anything to
repose amid luxurious surroundings and quaff gob-
blets of good liquor (soft or otherwise) what time
attentive serving-people hand them free victuals
and hang on their lightest word, and generally
treat them as though they were IT. In short,
they want an ornate shivoo, with unlimited re-
freshments, and they want the goods for nothing.
This long-felt want is met in comprehensive
fashion by the Mackinnon-Luffmann brand of
political “At Home.” Here foregather all those
misfits who haven’t money enough to lead what
they conceive to be the giddy existences of
“ women of fashion,” yet spurn the unspectacular
habits of people in their own walk of life. Their
time only comes once in three years, and it lasts
but a few short weeks when it does come. But
into that brief space are crowded many glorious
hours.
See that sturdy economist, theembryo “Liberal ”
voter, advancing on her political “At Home.” It
is a stirring spectacle. She wears her Sunday
best. She has not lunched, so that she shall be
in fit shape adequately to punish the good tilings
provided free by the political party which is after
her vote. She goes forth impervious to the low
sneers of her neighbors, common persons
who consider her lacking in self-respect.
In the evening she returns hot, replete
with sustenance, slightly dishevelled, racked by
the premonitory symptoms of dyspepsia, her
reticule bursting with provender, her heart
aglow with gratitude at the condescending treat-
ment meted out to her by those in charge of the
“At Home,” passionately “Liberal,” doggedly
resolved to vote like mad for those who have
flattered her and assuaged her appetite and
charged her nothing for either service.
There is only one fly in her ointment—and it
mostly doesn’t materialise till the elections are
over. Those who have treated her so reverentially
before polling day invariably cut her afterwards,
and in any case give her firmly to understand that
there will be no more gaieties or free food till such
time as her vote is required again. I know
several fervid but touchy anti-Socialists to
whom this tragedy occurred. They imme-
diately abandoned all their efforts to prevent
Labor bursting the marriage-tie, and retired from
politics for life. Their attitude is quite unreason-
able. When a political party takes to feeding
700 electors at a time—as the “Liberal ” party did
last week on behalf of Mr. Lees—it is manifestly
impossible for those running the mammoth
charity-feed to remember all the recipients of
bounty. As well expect Mr. Rickards to know
bv sight all the derelicts whom he feeds in the
Town Hall every Christmas Day.
Apropos of which a distressing incident occurred
in my little suburb a few days ago. That furiously
enthusiastic “Liberal” and Imperialist, Mrs. Fitz-
walter, happened to be conducting a political “At
Home” on the identical afternoon that Mrs.
Brapnigan, a-down the street, was expecting a
Milesian cook-lady to call about a job. The wives
of (1) a leading local house-agent, (2) a veterinary
surgeon, (3) a prominent undertaker, and (4) a
moneylender who had on one occasion had
financial traffic with a Government House butler
were already arrived. All was most genteel.
Suddenly the crash of a large, coarse umbrella
was heard on the tiled hall floor without. A
stout, red-faced, truculent female entered the
16 x 8 reception chamber and hurled herself
violently upon a frail piece of cane furniture. Mrs.
Fitzwalter, a diplomat to the finger-tips, hastened
to ply the new-comer with teaand friendly converse.
Moreguestsarrived. The gentility of the gathering
was now almost oppressive. The mysterious
umbrella-owner ate and drank steadily, and
steadily grew more enraged and defiant as to her
appearance. Suddenly a faint yelp from Mrs.
McHaggis, relict of the distinguished Belmore
auctioneer of that ilk, rent the atmosphere.
“Gracious!” moaned the lady, “it’s Bridget
whom I discharged, yestiddy was a fortnight, fer
drunkenness, insulting language and breaking me
furniture.” “A loie ! ” howled the stranger
resonantly. “ A loie ! I threw up the job meself
fer the reason that no self-respecting faymal.e
could live in such a house.” Here followed a
flood of blistering reminiscences anent the
McHaggis menage. When the appalling creature
had been ejected it was found that she had mis-
taken the house, and was after a situation in the
culinary department of the Brannigan home-
stead.
Up at Turramurra, or Wahroonga, or there-
abouts on the North Shore line, there is living a
nice middling-old gentleman who owns a castle
in Wales. Bryntysilio it is called, and, though
the late owner entertained Queen Victoria there,
you can buy it if you have the necessary few
thousands, for the nice old gentleman on the
North Shore line doesn’t want a castle in Wales.
His name is Mac Adam, and he owns the castle
because Helen Faucit, the beautiful actress, didn’t
leave any children. Her husband was Sir Theo-
dore Martin, who wrote “ The Life of the Prince
Consort,” in five volumes, and was Victoria’s
favorite “literary gent.” But he didn’t build the
castle out of books; he built or bought it with
Bills—Parliamentar}' Bills—for Sir Theo. was
what is known in Westminster as a “parlia-
mentary agent,” which is polite for log-roller.
And Sir Theo. was Mr. Mac Adam’s uncle.
For many years Mr. Mac Adam was manager in
Sydney for the Atlas Insurance Co., and he was
still taking risks when word arrived that, at
nearly 60, he was an heir. The amount was said
to be something like £150,000; but it turns out to
be about £30,000 less than that. But even £120,000
is enough to keep the wolf off the doorstep unless
it is a most persevering wolf. So Mr. Mac Adam
said good-bye to theoffice in Pitt-street —I think i t’s
inPitt-street —and went away to look at Bryn tysilio,
near Llangollen. He inspected the furniture that
had supported the Royal person, and viewed his
town house, which is in Onslow Square, and found
it very dusty and noisy by reason of the herd of
motor-’buses that run that way. It might have
been while inspecting his town house that he
caught cold ; anyway, he did catch one that very
nearly' killed him, and when, some weeks later, lie
was allowed out of doors he hadn’t enough voice
left to awaken an insomnia patient. Even when
he got on the Australian mail-boat he had to com-
mit his table remarks to paper. For the last few
weeks he has been up on the North Shore line,
struggling to recover his lost voice, and otherwise
getting himself fit and well to take his wife and
daughter a-touring the world.
The G. A. March pair (she was Miss Mabel
Rundle, of Sydney) are rejoicing over the arrival
of a daughter at their Onslow-Crescent-in-tlie-
Fog address. About the same time the Stork left
another bit of luggage (a son) at the London
address of the Titus two. Mrs. Titus is the
Helena Rubinstein of Australia’s acquaintance.
The most interesting news from London this
mail is the announcement of the engagement of
Rupert Clarke’s ex-consort. The lady’s second
trial will be another baronet, Philip Henry Brian
Grey-Egerton. His baronetage dates from the
year 1617, when Solomon was King and was
drinking “ most uncomely.” The baronet is aged
46 years. He married in 1893 a Miss Cuyler,
daughter of an officer in the U.S. A. army, but
the lady divorced him in 1905. The parties would
seem to be suited. About the same age, both
sundered by law from previous bonds, and with
two children apiece. She has two daughters, and
he has twin sons, aged 15 years. Also they have
two homes each. He is wealthy, his face is round,
fat and richly colored, and his moustache is of the
Kaiser cut.
Mrs. “Havilah” White, of Beulah Flats, is
amongst the early departers bound Northward-
ho. (I am not sure about the “ho,” but she is
a departer all right.)
The long finger of coincidence has been mixing
things up. It tried to coincide, and failed very
badly. This month Miss Buckridge, the winner
in the Lone Hand beauty competition for Aus-
tralasia, was married ; and Mrs. Alice Hoppe,
winner of theN.S. W. prize in thesame com petition,
was divorced on her own petition. She is a large
handsome brunette, whilst the winner for all the
States is a slender blonde. At least, both ladies
answered those descriptions when they came be-
fore the judges at the time of the awards.
Mr. Lachlan Beaton has acquired a fiat in the
Albany, and is having it re-decorated in expecta-
tion of his wife’s arrival.
Concerning flats, and especially the new flattery
known as Strathkyle. A distinguished stranger-
lady from foreign parts, who has taken a costly
lair there, has had her dining-room decorated and
furnished to suit her rather unusual taste. The
walls are black, the carpet white, and the furni-
ture black and white.
Miss Hope Faithful!, the tall, Titian-haired
daughter of the late Mr. “Monty” Faithfull, and
younger sister of Mrs. Jack Wilkinson, was
married at the Church of the Annunciation,
London, at the beginning of the month. Her
husband, Mr. Cecil Webb, is a member of that
Church which Dr. Dill Maclcy proposes shortly
to leap upon and stamp out of existence. The
couple are journeying here in a month or so, and
afterwards will return and settle down at the
bridegroom’s place near Soutlisea.
A Victorian friend sparkles at me : “ A Letter
or two ago, when you were referring to the mar-
riage of the student Philander Knox and the
draperess, you flicked in a mention of the mar-
riage of Mr. Frank Stephen, when he was a
lad. His mate in the youthful romance was
Miss Cissy Grant. When the law sundered
their bonds Mrs. Stephen, with her two sons, left
Australia, and she married a Mr. Fletcher who
presently died, leaving her £900,000 ; so she
liadn’t to take in plain sewing. She has long
been a grandmother, for her daughter, Claudia
Stephen, who married one of the Weigalls,
has four children ; but grandmotherhood did
not scare the lady from tying a third true
lovers’ knot. A little time ago she married
a gallant young Irishman named McGrath, aged
under 30, and is to him the fond wife and careful
mother.”
Miss Eadith Walker and a group of satellites
motored to Medlow to put in from Good Bunday
to over Easter at the Hydro. The Charles Waters
pair and their petrol cart are there also, and a
recent visitor was Mrs. Sutton, whose late husband
was accountant of the Argus for 145 years. It
was their daughter, Edith Sutton, who went on
the stage in the first of the Julius K. boom with
Mrs. Maesmore Morris. Miss Sutton married a
Mr. Poindevin ; but she has also become a widow
and is staying near London with her beautiful and
once stage-struck friend, now Mrs. Soutar.
There are indications that Rupert Clarke intends
making Sydney his home. Anyhow, be has
bought an ornate residence in Elizabeth Bay,
where the Onslow estate roams at large, and he is
to settle down there quite soon.
The King of Italy had a busy day lately con-
ferring honors on various notables who have left
their country for other countries’ good. One to be
decorated is Emanuel De Beaupuis, the pianist,
who is hereafter the Cavalier Signor Emanuel De
Beaupuis. Even if he never dreams of getting
on a horse, but just uses the tramcar as usual, he
will now be a cavalier for the rest of his days.
He can’t help it. The season ticket, or whatever
it is, is to be handed over at a grand banquet to
be given to the cavalier ; and Dr. Marano, the
Consul for Italy, is to do the handing over.
Quite a number of respectable adjectives goto
the describing of Bel Sorel’s lyric voice. It is a
beautifully even voice, limpid, sympathetic,
sweet, artistically-produced, but of small power
and volume. When one has not heard the sing-
ing of any other Mrs. Butterfly one cannot judge
by contrast, but I should imagine Bel Sorel, de-
spite her voice limitations, to be as captivat-
ing a Cho-Cho-San as a conductor would find in
a week’s march on Hannibal’s track through Italy.
This as regards her acting and personality. The
audience thought her an adorable little bit of
winged goods, and if a large section of it went to
sleep after the first act —well, it was tired after
the races, and dead tired of the Chilian gentleman
who masqueraded as Lieutenant F. B. Pinkerton,
of the U.S. Navy. Curiously enough, he was the
only really truly Japanese-looking figure on the
stage. The others were made-up capitally; but
without any pretence and despite the European
uniform, Mr. Zerga looked like any one of the
boyish-looking Jap officers who have pervaded
Sydney for the past week. He has the same
lean, swarthy cheeks, the same intensely black
hair and small ebon moustache. As he has to
operatically father a child with golden hair and
a face like a blush rose, he ought to have made up
fair, or a dark baby should have been procured, or
the present baby should have been dyed.
Mr. Brae.y really should leave a margin for
human stupidity. Everyone in the audience who
hadn’t read the story or seen the play thought for
many minutes that Zerga was an (operatic) Jap
officer, and his name aided the hallucination.
But it was not his lack of the European
look or his very ordinary singing that sent
the tired to sleep. It was his acting,
which was as intelligent as that of four
palings swung on a peg and worked semaphore-
wise. No Geisha would slay herself for love of
that kind of Westerner. The. chorus alone was
worth the 75., and the kimonos of the Butterfly
were valued at any money. There were black
satin kirns with purple wistaria and golden butter-
flies; and kirns of white silk, the long sleeves
fluttering like the giant pinions of an outsize in
moths.
J.C.W. ought to love the Hebrews. They are
the best supporters of his musical productions,
and the first night audience at “ Mrs. Butterfly ”
was three parts Solomon in all his glory. Glad
gowns, diamonds and Turk’s head hairdress-
ing abounded. Gold furniture braid, worn
fillet-wise, circled the head of every second
Rachel Palestine and her daughter Rebecca.
Amongst the alleged Christians that punctuated
the glittering audience were those inveterate
first-nighters, the Arthur Allens, the Taylor-
Youngs, Spencer Bruntons, and Philip Mortons.
But most of the smart-dressers amongst the well-
known first-nighters were absent. Probably they
were at “Aladdin ” or West’s pictures. No one
who is not fanatically musical would prefer
Puccini’s dreary opera toapanto, or aflickergraph.
The best dressed woman in the theatre was on
the stage —Miss Fanny Bauer, My, but she was
a dizzy fashion plate ! She was decked in a frock
of what looked like white cloth with elaborate
white silken cordage decorations, and a big white
toque of Napoleonic fashion with an emerald
green osprey or a bunch of carrot foliage,
and worn at an all-conquering angle on her
fair mathematically-undulated hair. She made
her first appearance at something to 11, pre-
senting a graceful and amazingly slender sil-
houette, sang the few bars demanded of her, and
left the women auditors wondering if even an
American bride would come off from a steamer in
the very early forenoon wearing such a worshipful
creation.
Two young Hiberno-Maorilander youths, with
voices of fine promise, made their first appearance
out of their own land on Saturday. One, Mr.
Clifford O’Keefe, had a small part in “ Mrs.
Butterfly.” The other, Mr. Cecil Ryan, was
with the Oscar Asdics in “As You Like It.” He
certainly liked it. So did the audience.
A Greek Club —the Centron by name—started
in Elizabeth-street last week. Here Aristides da
Oysteropolous will collogue with his friend
Agamem Breamopolus concerning the Austra-
lian fish trade and the meagre profits derivable
from the same. Is there any more hopeless pes-
simist on this earth than the Athenian who
directs a bivalve warehouse? If so I have yet to
hear of him. The club will be a dreary resort —
but affluent withal. A hard-up Greek is a rare
portent in this State.
A man called “ Bloggs ” sends me this :
Richard Hunter, who was a person of some note in his
way, passed over at Innerwick (Scotland) last month.
He had but one pastime in life—viz., to be mistaken in
public places for Edward VII. He was what the indige-
nous push would term the “ dead spit ”or “ ring” of the
British monarch. He wore his beard and such hair rem-
nants as he possessed in the same style as Edward, and
loyally copied his model’s clothes. Twice a year he left
his native land and betook himself to Paris, Homburg,
and other centres familiar with his Sovereign. On
arrival it gave him an infinity of pleasure to observe the
way the natives reeled with surprise and joy at the sight
of him. London Daily Chronicle said of him
“ On one occasion he was staying at the Hotel Regina,
Paris, and his apartments were put under special guard,
evidently with the intention to ward off inquisitive
visitors. Another time, on entering a noted Paris
restaurant, the band struck up the National Anthem,
and the occupants of the tables respectfully rose and
bowed as he p issed in. At different Continental resorts
he frequently found himself surrounded by admiring
crowds.”
Tiie Chronicle makes the absurd suggestion that this
sort of thing often “ embarrassed ” deceased. Apart from
the fact that his hobby was well known in London and
Paris, there remains the plain circumstance that by
undergoing a clean shave he could have obviated
it all. When not engaged looking like Ed. VII. on
the Continent, Mr. Hunter was wont to arrive unex-
pectedly at cattle shows garbed in the square bowler hat
and frieze tail-coat affected by the King when in the
society of agriculturists. His facial and physical peculiari-
ties would have been a fortune to a less scrupulous and
affluent member of Society. The shopkeeper of old
Europe does not furtively consult his “Traders’ Protec-
tion journal” when the average king leaves a big order
—he just buzzes the merchandise along and chaunts a
Te Deum at his luck in getting the chance to do so.
Hunter never ordered things in Ed. Vll.’s name. The
only articles he ever obtained under false pretences were
intangible, valueless goods—the snobbish worshippings of
the hoodwinked multitude.
London society columns are congratulating our
ex-Governor Beauchamp and his Countess on the
arrival of their fifth child. Their eldest is aged
seven years. The Spanish Royal family isn’t
doing all the expanding.
Another of Lord Plunket’s wrap-carriers and
name-announcers is to marry a Maoriland girl.
He is Captain the Hon. Nigel Gathorne Hardy,
youngest son of the Earl of Cranbrook ; and she is
a rather small and undeniably pretty girl, with
the sweet name of Doris. Also, she is the
youngest daughter of Mr. Charles Johnston,
M.L.C., of Wellington. The family is wealthy,
for the first Johnston was a pioneer in Maori*
land, and set up one of the first, if not the very
first, linen drapery in the capital city. Afterwards
he acquired much land and numerous sheep.
Lady Northcote, President of the Austral Club
and the most generous of our ex-Governor-
Generalesses, has sent Miss Baxter, secretary of
the Combine, a cheque of 10 guineas for the
extension fund, whatever that may be.
Dowager-Countess Dudley deserves a subsidy
from the A.J.C., for she was a big draw
for Easter Monday’s race meeting. In black
of gossamer lightness, with cream lace on
neck and sleeves, and an all-black hat
with plumage—the kind that even the anti-
plum era allow—-and a black veil of an obscurating
(that’s a good word) mesh she was a bright-eyed,
graceful and alert-looking dame. The crowd stood
in relays opposite the G.-G.’s box and said, “ Isn't
she the image of him, only he’s more tired-look-
ing.” The very fat ladies in the throng of gazers
told their friends, “Well, if I can look like her
when I’m 60 I shan’t mind how soon it conies.”
Which was a tribute to the lady’s unusual
slenderness.
She has set the height at which you may hold
up your gown, and now Sydney has got the
"Dudley lift” to a hair. It is almost knee-
high. As no underskirts are proclaimed—onlv
hose and shoes—you had better “see to it, Tigel-
litius,” as Nero says in the play about something
else.
The Chelmsford Countess, in a champagne robe
with blue additions and a big hat with blue
feathers, has gained some chubbiness whilst
voyaging. Mrs. Malcolm had one of the new
chiffon velvet tailor-mades. Mrs. Ewan Frazer
and a tall “Orient” Anderson girl were other
wearers of beautiful material, exquisitely made.
There’s a lot more to be said about this Easter's
dressing, but the men are waiting to nail down
this Letter, so I’ll continue it in my next, like a
python serial.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
WATCHMAKERS
BY APPOINTMENT SILVERSMITHS
SOLID SILVER MANICURE SETS.
An Idea! Birthday or Wedding Present.
!l ' jmm
HARDY BRGS U°
Xis-
SacHHHIimiHIHUtW
Solid Silver Manicure Set, Thirteen Pieces, Handsomely Engraved,
Empire Des:gn, in Morocco Case,
£lO.
Other Sets in stock from £1 ss.
I 3 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
lIS QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
f.
c
MONEY MAKERS ALL.
Invest your money in one or more of the Lots below,
and just so surely as night follows day, you will see it
double or treble in a very little while. Sydney is growing
wonderfully ; property values are going up over-night.
The Lots we quote are in the most rapidly increasing
districts. They are money-makers all. Send for free
plans and catalogue.
KENSINGTO N. —ln this growing l
suburb of ideal homes, lots are increasing in
value every day. Lots on Kensington Es-
tate, No. 3 subdivision, near 2d. tram, only
50s. a foot; £5 deposit, balance spread over
six years.
RANDWICK, Sea View Heights
Estate. —Desirable lots on the surveyed
line of the Little Coogee to Randwick tram.
Lots 50 x 165 feet, 60s. a foot. Terms, 5 per
cent, deposit, balance in 60 monthly pay-
ments. Torrens Title. Building restriction,
£4OO.
PUNCHBOWL, on the new Belmore
to Bankstown Railway, Emerald Hills Es-
tate, right at the station. Big level lots of
good land from 10s. 6d. per foot. Terms,
£1 deposit and 10s. monthly.
BELLEVUE HILL, Kambala
Heights Estate, 25 minutes’ tram journey
from G.P.O. Elevated lots from 555. per
foot. Terms, five to 13 years.
PORT HACKING-, WillarongPoint
Estate, Yowie Bay. —Big Lots, fronting
the Bay, from 255. per foot. Terms, £5 de-
posit, and £2 10s. monthly.
FRESHWATER, MANLY,
Surfers’ Rest Estate, —Close to the
beach—a specially desirable week-end pro-
perty. Only five lots left, 30 x 148 feet,
£37105, each. Terms, £2 down, £1 monthly.
Torrens Title. Free transfer to all cash
purchasers.
FRESHWATER, MANLY,
Ocean View Estate. —A week-end and
residential property within, a few minutes of
Freshwater Beach. Elevated lots, com-
manding fine views, 33 x 132 feet; £45.
Terms, £2 down, £1 monthly. Torrens
Title.
NEWINGTON. Riverside Heights
Estate, adjoining the new abattoirs. Big
desirable lots from £lB. Terms, £1 deposit
and 10s. monthly.
BANKSTOWN, Greenacre Park,
right at Bankstown Station. Good level
business sites, 355. per foot. Terms, from
£2 deposit and £1 monthly.
NARRABEEN, Lakeside Estate,
right at the bridge. Excellent lots, fronting
Victoria Road, and running back to the
Lake, £2 per foot. Terms, £5 deposit, and
£2 monthly.
<zCo£frf
ptfrihaj*
ft 4*Pi«St
Write for Rickard’s Realty Review.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE FINANCIAL AGREEMENT REFERENDUM.
Manifesto by the State Premier.
TO THE ELECTORS OF NEW SOUTH WALES,—
Amongst the many questions to be determined
by the electors on April 13, there is perhaps no
more momentous issue to the State than that of
the acceptance or rejection of the financial agree-
ment. Although this is a matter in respect of
which the public will be called upon to vote as
individuals, yet it so vitally affects the people of
the State as taxpayers, and is so intimately bound
up with its future stability, that I venture to put
forward reasons why the people of New South
Wales, in their own interests, should vote “Yes”
upon this question.
When the Commonwealth Constitution was
framed, certain specific powers were conferred
upon the Federal Parliament. Functions of
government not specifically handed over to the
Commonwealth were reserved to the States;
but at the same time power to collect Customs
and Excise duties was transferred to the
Commonwealth. It thus became possessed of
a source of immense revenue (the total amount
now approaches 11 millions of money), and
this revenue was far in excess of that re-
quired for Commonwealth expenditure. It
therefore became necessary, so as to ensure
btate solvency, that a certain proportion of
Customs revenue be returned to the States. This
was regarded of such vita! importance to the
States that the proposal in the first instance was
that this division of the revenues should be for all
tune. Eventually, however, it was agreed that
the basis of distribution was to operate for 10
years only, and we are now face to face with the
position that this clause will cease to operate at
the end of the present year. Thereafter the Com-
monwealth Parliament will be in control of the
situation, and be entitled, year by year, to return
to the States just as little as they may think fit.
Under these circumstances, it became incum-
bent on the States, in their own interests, to
arrive at some agreement which would provide
tor a permanent allocation of revenue from the
and which would be just to
tx/th parties. The electors of Australia are
alst the taxpayers. You electors of New
Sou ;th Wales have two agencies represented by
die \ Commonwealth and State Governments.
.Each * sphere of government has its recognised
U-turns, and the money contributed by tax-
payers should be so distributed that each
agent may receive an amount which will be
sufficient to meet its obligations. But if an
excessive amount is granted to one agent, a
endency to extravagance is established, whilst
-e agent who receives insufficient must call
upon the electors to make good the shortage
y further taxation. The agreement which has
ieen arrived at between the States and Com in on-
ealth Government complies with the above con-
i ions, and is now before you for acceptance. It,
oreover secures to the States financial security
nf orf^Ihty 1 hty by providing for (1) a fixed payment
os. per head to each State, according to popu-
lation ; and (2) the embodiment of the agreement
in the Constitution.
It has been admitted by Commonwealth Mini-
sters that the agreement is fair to the Comnion-
wealth, and members of the Liberal Party are
now advocating its acceptance. To enable the
Federal Government to meet its new obligations,
it will at once become entitled to an increase in
revenue of at least 2f millions. Its share of duties
from Customs and Excise will be increased from
one-quarter to one-half.
It was inevitable in any scheme to take the
P la , ee of \ he Braddon clause that the. State must
make substantial concessions to the Common-
™ealth> but th ® Pr T ,erS ° f ea ? h Stat( i ? ssented
to the agreement as being one they could recom-
mend to their electors. It has been approved of
the parfc - v ' n P ower in ever y Sute -
What are the ad vantages to New South Wales ?
1. It secures to this State a definite fixed sum
year by year. The Treasurer will know with cer-
tainty the revenue for each year. He will be able
to make his forecast with no uncertain voice, and
State finance will not be dependent on the Federal
Budget.
2. This fixed minimum will steadily increase
as population grows. As this State is opened
up with new settlers and fresh industries
are established, demands will arise for further
expenditure; but we shall be entitled to
255. for every man, woman and child that
is brought into New South Wales. This
State has shown remarkable growth in its popu-
lation of recent years, the latest figures showing
that of oversea arrivals in the Commonwealth,
two-thirds have landed in New South Wales,
Consequently, with these favorable prospects,
the moneys that New South Wales will draw
f rom the Commonwealth will always be increas-
-I'g; You are further asked to embody the agree-
ment in the Constitution, and obtain financial
security for the State. This means that the con-
trol of your financial interests in the future in this
respect will be entrusted entirely to the electors
of the Commonwealth rather than to the vote of
.nych.nce majority to ...» C« mm o n w»U„ Par-
‘ ‘ . " . , , ,
U ,s pbjected that, once placed in the Consti-
tution, can never be removed ; but exactly the
sam e process which you are asked to adopt to
P lace the agreement in the Constitution can be
made use of to take it out if necessity arises,
Some members of the Federal Labor party
undertake to pay this amount for 10 years ; but
what will this involve ? In the first place, this
offer has no value, the caucus may decide on one
year—Mr. Fisher says two years is sufficient,
Secondly, they invite you to vote against the
present referendum because this provides for a
permanent and not for a temporary arrangement.
Having voted against the referendum, you then
place yourselves at the mercy of those persons
whose attitude inclines to unification, the subor-
dination of the States, and the control of State
development from one centre.
If you reject the referendum and follow the
Labor party, you run the risk in the first place of
the Commonwealth Parliament granting you less
than 255. per head. Prominent members of the
party who suggest a temporary agreement are
Mr. Fisher and Mr. Hughes. Mr. Fisher has de-
clared that 20s. per head is quite sufficient. Mr.
Hughes has said that 255. is, in his opinion, too
much. The caucus, if in power, may decide On
£1 a head as a commencement, and when the
time arrives, at the end of 10 or less years, to
discuss the question again, you may depend upon
it, the amount will be still further cut down.
Under the present proposal you have certaintv
as against uncertainty ; solvency against financial
embarrassment. You are asked to surrender the
substance and grasp at the shadow. Let your
answer be, ‘‘A bird in the hand is worth two in
the bush ”
rpi ’ • c , . e u i
The experience of the last few years has shown
an immense increase in Commonwealth expend.-
ture in anticipation of the fact that they will ,n
the absence of agreement control the situation at
the. end of tins year, and as each succeeding
period draws near for readjustment there will be
a growth in Federal expenditure a temptation
which cannot be resisted and winch will inevi-
tably lead toalessarnou.it being returned to the
tetates-
The proposal therefore of a time limit means
that the States will certainly receive from time
to time a decreasing amount much less than 255.
a head. Yet State obligations will be growing ;
the duty will continue to open up the country
to provide closer settlement, to extend our rail-
way system, to provide for water conservation
and irrigation for the benefit primarily of
those in the interior of the State, and, indirectly,
the whole of New South Wales. Side by side
with the public works policy is the obligation
to provide for an extension of our educational
system, to enlarge the charities vote,, to pro-
vide for the administration of justice, and to
afford assistance to the various public bodies by
way of endowments and subsidies as is now
carried out to promote self help and local govern-
ment. If your sources of supply from the
Federal Government are curtailed, then in the
future as your wants increase your revenue
will shrink. You electors must therefore face
heavy retrenchment and the necessity for put-
ting your hands in your pockets for further
taxation, or public works must stop. On the
other hand, with the adoption of this agree-
ment the growth in population will bring in-
creased revenue, and enable us to meet the
growing requirements of the State. Each sphere
of government will be able to carry out its
obligations independently of the other, and the
Federal spirit of the Constitution will be pre-
served. If, moreover, the agreement is rejected,
the whole financial future of the State is again
cast into the melting pot, and you will have taken
a substantial step towards securing unification. It
is easier to control one Parliament than seven. It
will therefore be a great help to destroy six.
This is the purpose of unificationists. It is quite
true that no party as a body have yet incor-
porated unification as a plank of their plat-
form, although the vote taken at the recent
Labor Conference shows that this movement
is growing. There is, however, a more insidious
method of bringing about the same result, and
recent developments show beyond doubt there is
a desire to weaken the States by depriving them
of their powers of legislation and their sources of
revenue. One of the chief functions of the State
Government at the present day is to legislate
upon industrial matters. The recent Labor
League Conference resolved that all the powers of
legislation should be transferred to the Common-
wealth authorities. If unificationists can first
deprive the States of their sources of revenue,
which is the very life-blood of government,'and
in the next place shear them of their functions as
legislative bodies, then the States as such will
cease to exist. If, then, we make it a term of the
Constitution that 255. per head shall be paid to
each State, we cannot be financially starved.
But if we put the power in the hands of the,Com-
monwealth Parliament to reduce this amount to
a vanishing point, we shall be forced into the
humiliating position of taking only the crumbs
that fall from the rich man’s table, and only being
allowed to carry on Government on terms, which
they dictate. When that stage has been reached,
the State becomes a mere creature of the Common-
wealth. Unification will be very near.
Remember that before this financial agreement
can be made part of the Constitution it must be
approved of by a majority of the electors in the
whole Commonwealth, and likewise a majority of
the voters in at least four States. Every vote,
therefore, is necessary to ensure success, and
inactivity in any one State will not only prevent
the agreement being carried in that State, but it
may also ruin its chances in the other States pf
Australia.
In conclusion, I ask you earnestly to vote
“Yes” for the financial agreement.
Because
1. It is fair to Commonwealth and State. '
2. It is a guarantee of State solvency.
3. It provides for an ever-increasing revenue to the
State in proportion to the growth of population.
4. It secures an increasing revenue, which' will be a
great help in developing the resources of the State,
If you vote “ No ” it means—
1. Less money for the States.
2. Increased taxation. j
3. Chaos in State finance.
4. Centralising of power in the Commonwealth.
5. Interference with the most valuable of /State rights.
6. Triumph for Unificationists.
C. G. WADE.


Madame Weigel's Patterns
SYDNEY AGENTS :
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., King- Street.
J. W. Johnston & Co., Haymarket.
MELBOURNE AGENTS:
W. H. Cooper, 23 Royal Arcade.
Ball & Welch Pty., Ltd., Flinders Street.
Madame Weigel's Patterns
Manufactured in Australia.
THE FIRST, AND STILL THE BEST.
Sold at prices from 3d. to Is. by
Agents everywhere.
FACTORY - - RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
Keep-
Cool
Corsets!
During the Summer Season—many
excessively hot days are experienced.
On these occasions the wearing of Cor-
sets may not be necessary in the privacy
of the home—but unfortunately most
women are compelled by business or
household matters to face the fiery fierce-
ness of the Summer sun. Coolness and
comfort are therefore essent.al in good
Corset construction—and to ensure these
welcome qualities true scientific and
hygienic perfection must be embodied in
every pair—together with the distinctive
features so necessary to smartness in
dress. No Corset in the woriu possesses
these advantages like unto the famous
French
Royal
Rustless Corsets.
“ASK YOUR DRAPER!”
v-r
r W7
RDi
c y
TRADE
MARK
SQVJRRE -TREAD
Eraisssssiissn:
tetfSliMa **»*»*<* . sosea
*»%
iSliiii
8
Si St # & ft S? j ! i
H
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Min, bourne, March 28, 1910.
My Dear Yarrik.—
Hie place is full of the wreckage of holiday-
making. Housekeepers are only recovering from
a small pain in the right temple acquired while
trying to decide what kind of tinned fish to buy
when the butcher said cheerfully, “ Won’t be
ere till Toosday, Mum.” One falls over
horrible crowds planted round picnic-baskets
in the streets —streets not yet recovered from
weird, green earthquake of Patrick’s-day-on-
the-Saturday mornin’. Railway Tait probably
went away for a holiday also. The railway
clocks announced the times and destinations of
trains. Passengers accepted the assurance and
travelled in the trains. Sometimes they arrived
where they expected, and sometimes, I hear, they
didn t; but it may be set to the credit of the
management that everybody arrived somewhere.
There was no instance of the complete disappear-
ance of a passenger through being taken to
Knowhere—the place from which there is no train
back until 200 G or thereabouts.
Kings and such folk are wandering. Edward
Rex restlessly looks at South Africa. Roosevelt
has dropped in for a week on the Kaiser after
wandering in .the interior of Africa and laying
himself open to the suspicion that he is pegging
out a kingdom for his very superfluous nigger—a
new Liberia, or something of the sort. Ying
Chang, Chinese Minister for War, is at present
on a visit to Berlin. It is very upsetting, this
restlessness of potentates. Half the world has its
ear at the keyhole to hear what the monarch is
saying, and the other half is balanced on a chair
and looking in at the fanlight.
The Geoffrey Symes, of the Age, are sounding
all the joy-cymbals at the arrival of a brand new
daughter to add to the couplet of dark hair and
saucy dimples already in their possession.
The Continental Tyre Edwardses have moved
from Melbourne Mansions. They’ve annexed the
Big John Forrest suite at the Grand. Now the
Grand permanents are wondering if little Rubber
Edwards snores. In the Big John days the rooms
next the suite could never be let except to new
chums (and they gave notice in the morning sure),
because Forrest slept just like Julius Vogel, of
Maoriland, and Vogel was connected with all the
foghorns at all the different lighthouses for the
sake of economy. Edwards and his baby-fair wife
go to Europe later in the year. Rubber’s a good
game nowadays.
A painfully sudden passing-away was that of
Mrs. Robinson, widow of A. B. Robinson, of the
Age, who himself died only a few months ago. A
heart stroke did it; after the stroke there was
just a drifting from unconsciousness irtto death.
She was a devoted wife, and always travelled
with her husband ; he was never restful if she
were out of coo-ee. Also, she was a charming
woman and a brilliant conversationalist. Her
age (70) appeals as a surprise—in spite of her
grown-up family of five sons and her grand-
children. She was as young as a woman only
half her age. Mrs. Robinson was a • ister of
Justice Barton, of the High Court, and as born
at Newtown, Sydney.
That restless wanderer, Mrs. Car’, ieT Smythe,
sends a coo-ee. This time it is .>nm Algiers,
where she was fortunate in seeing the Carnival —
a thing of bizarre, weird music and fascinating
color.
A Queen’s College boy, Jack Apperley, has
won the Rhodes scholarship for 1910. He is a
nephew of artist Longstaff ; his mother was one
of the Shepparton Longstaffs, and his father is
manager of the Bank of Victoria at Eaglehawk,
a suburb of Golden Bendigo. Apperley began at
Eaglehawk State school, then went to Wesley
before Queen’s and the Llniversity.
Sugden of Queen’s —that naturalised Australian
with a Yarkshire accent—has been pounding out
a challenge to Foster Frazer—the hurried lecture-
man who criticised Australian Youth from the
pinnacle of a few weeks’ rush throd&h the cities
of this broad continent. And he has done his
work forcibly.
Alexandra Club pussies stir restlessly on their
hearthrugs and try their claws. An intimation
has gone out proposing a heavier entrance fee and
a thicker annual subscription. “ Meiow—why ? ”
wail pussies. The charges are already prohibi-
tive to any but moneyed shes, The treasury is fat
and sleek, like a cat that has just consumed three
mouses, and it has already paid a dividend.
“Why? ow-ow-ow-y?” Also the list is tucked
full and snug. There is no room for another
member rntil a death or some such
relieving incident makes a gap. Women
are accused of being meaner than men, and
the Alexandrinas evidently will not lift the
accusation. A full members’ list of good fat fees,
and yet men visitors complain that they cannot
get enough to eat ! Invited to lunch or dinner by
a sweet club puss (properly chaperoned, of course),
the poor male creature is tortured with hunger,
and is forced to sneak off and add an auxiliary
grill or bird to the menu in some surreptitious
hole or masculine club room.
The Women’s Hospital Bazaar, which is mixed
up in Easter confusion with the long-bearded
Druids’ festival at the Exhibition, opened on
Saturday. Lady Carmichael, surrounded by a
dozen or so of Brothers Longbeard, made an
opening speech, then climbed bravely down
among the pretty robbers ready for the attack.
The stalls boasted a unique collection of mayor-
esses, and they had commandeered the prettiest
colleens of their district for the raid. The
Brennan girls made a sinecure of the sweets in a
kiosk, standing four square to the central avenue.
The Melbourne stall had the gaudy-mavoress,
Mrs. Landale, and Mrs. Godfrey at its head. Its
ramifications extended to something like a carriage
paddock with half a dozen horse vehicles going
for a shilling. Raffle girls were out and around
in a way that was calculated to make Judkins
weep. One male creature, in self-defence, “took
a book” and became cadger instead of cadged.
Don’t know how more complaisant people fared—
but if her raffles come home to roost, Johanna
will own one galvanised-iron water tank, one doll
with real hair, six assorted carriages to ride in,
five cushions to 101 l upon, and rabbit skins guaran-
teed to be 50-guinea black fox to keep her warm
while driving. The Australian sporting spirit
was well fostered. There were 12 wheels at
“a penny a go.” Respectable matrons of
heavy social tonnage guarded these frivol-
ities (each with a “boy” to do the yell-
ing). The turn of the wheel might get
one a tin of asparagus for the casual penny.
Since pence enough to pay for the prize were
garnered before the turn of the pointer, things
looked brisk for the disposal of the whole bazaar,
if business kept to the feverish height of Satur-
day. Even the flower-stall threw its wares
out on a penny wheel. The Austral Salon un-
bent to barter toys—a good paying line, for
everybody knows some appreciative corner to
which he can send charity-bought toys.
St. Kilda veiled its stall in a curtain of
wistaria. Behind was a practical collec-
tion of kitchen things—there’s no uncer-
tainty in the market for kitchen-ware.
Two striking looking girls in sapphire blue
lured buyers to a corner on their own. The
Druids annexed the refreshment stall.
The bazaar is to run for a fortnight. Sassiety
promoters may go home in ambulances at the end
of the siege. One particularly enthusiastic girl
has been ordered to bed by her doctor papa
already—through over-work.
Outside interest intends to keep the affair
warmed up during the run. Essie Perrin is
running a show at the Paris Cafe during the week,
with other “ Arcadians ” to help, just to keep the
sweets stall in good working order.
A Tasmanian girl writes :
That old political war-horse, Senator Henry Dobson, id
going strong. So is his son, Louis Dobson ; but his going
is for the altar, along with a pretty cousin, Rita Munde-
ville. They hope to reach the goal on April 20. Son
Louis has evaded matrimony for 40 years or so, and now
he goes down before a plump, pretty slip of a cousin.
Cousins are more dangerous than widows in some wavs.
Australian sheep-man Horsfall is disporting himself
here at present, and incidentally entertaining peers and
peeresses. Last week Meath and his Countess and a
party were motored down to Huonville in two cars. Not
that Meath and his lady required separate cars—they are
turtle doves still. The handsome wife of Henry Dobson,
and a fine-looking son-in-law, with some others, made up
the party. ,
The brother of Mrs. Phillips Fox (Ethel Car-
rick) is getting his hand into the musical comedy
business. When Mrs. Fox came to Australia with
her husband, two years ago; she brought two or
three copies of a book of light verse, published by
her brother, Hartley Carrick, who is an M.A,
with a non-academical talent for frivolous jingle.
Some of the lyrics in “Two Merry Monarchs,”
the latest musical play at the London Savoy, are
by him.
Wattle blossom, before it grew in Australia,
came from Arcadia. Have just discovered that.
The Clarke-Meynell first glimpse of Arcadia at
the Royal shows a glory of it among blossoming
fruit trees. The Arcadians, clad in gold sandals
and a breath of air, wander beneath this glory on
silk-velvet moss and act as examples to George
Washington. A Londoner in Dundreary whiskers
falls out of an airship into their land and eventu-
ally tells a lie. Maie Sydney and Essie Perrin,
two daisy Arcadians, convert him into a hatchet
or a cherry-tree, and setoff to teach other Lon-
doners the truth. Two Arcadians, clad in sandals
and an earnest expression, rouse some notice even
at Ascot, where the dresses have been pretty
so-so lately. Tom Wall, a jockey, wears Rupert
Clarke’s colors (pink and black), and Deuce,
who wins the race, is led on to the stage. Deuce
proves to be Rupert’s Dreamland—a white-
socked dark bay with a face like a horse-angel.
The real trainer who leads him on couldn’t be
copied by the cleverest mummer! He is a
race atmosphere in himself. Prima-donna Maie
Sydney is a peach. Why she relinquished such a
touching name on the stage I don't know. She is
a Sydney peach—a peach right from Mos-
mans, who jumped from Australia to study,
and from study to Daly’s, and from Daly’s
back to Australia with a full-fledged chortle.
A peach and a chortle make a good
stage combination. She is a copy of Dorothy
Vane in figure and fair, fluffy hair ; but her voice
is several sizes larger than her body.
Danseuse Essie Perrin is held back as second
lead by having a dance inserted in the “busi-
ness.” It did not belong to the London Arcadians.
The Londoners are the losers. Essie, in pink silk
fringe and gold sandals, is going to make more
havoc among the rabid Gussies.
The Arcadians in London are turned into a
Cult, and their hotel lounge is glorified with
Bacchanalian fruit. Real grapes hangon autumn
vines (perhaps they could in Arcadia) and the
stage looks like a Western District vigneron’s
verandah. The color schemes are Asche-ian in
their vigor, arid the business has its Gilbert-and-
Sullivan flavor. The very first of the very first
act is simply Princess Ida.
Cromwell —the Dundreary-whiskered Londoner
who invades Arcadia—eventually gets into togs
such as Nero would have worn had he lived in the
time of modern London tailors. His cut-away
coat and very abbreviated pantlings are of royal
Roman purple, and the wreath on his would-be-
Arcadian brow is truly Roman. Men are begin-
ning to copy the male bird’s pride of feathers.
What will become of women if they have to
compete against Tom Cat as well as Tabby ?
The last night of “ Sergeant Brue ” and good-
bye to the “Hook ” company was a shriek. The
Sergeant was forced in the end to lock the play
up as drunk and disorderly, for the said play
would insist on breaking out into foreign songs
and dances and Dutch blue dresses from tlie
“ Hooks.” Also, when Thorley was enveloped in
sentiment and rosy limelight singing to his Hono-
lulu Lulu, that beautiful lady’s sedan hammock
appeared with Mr. Crookie Scrubbs lounging
therein. He threw kisses and red roses, but
Thorley was hurt to the innermost core of his
sentiment.
The wildly-hilarious Gussies who have been
grovelling at the feet of the “Hook” girls
crowded the stalls and a eoiiple of boxes. They
pelted thegirls with chocolate boxes—big, fat things
that threatened tocripplethedancersforever. Tom
Payne watched from the wings and wisely brought
a clothes basket on at his cue. Some motor hogs
who have been laying their petrol tanks at the
feet of the chorus sat in a box and brought the
motor horn, which added pleasantly to the
orchestral harmony. It was a most restful
evening. Peter Mcßride with Mrs. Peter and a
jolly party filled the south box. Minister Peter
was gloating over the day’s sales of Powlett River
land blocks. “ Went off like hot <*akes,” he says.
Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird” is spread through
Russia in 42 companies. The mystical trend of it
appeals to the people. Strange that it should be
such a far-reaching success in English and
Russian translations, yet it has not been pro-
duced in France or Belgium—in its own home, so
to speak.
The Northeote Cup race of the yachts roused
even more excitement than the Sayonara-eum-
Culwulla event, because the whole thing could be
viewed from land. St. Kilda pier was the start-
ing point and objective, and enthusiasts on the
high road to lunacy hung and yelled and shouted
from the pier boards. Killara’s win was by 13
stumpy little seconds, so the finish was a roar. A
Melbourne Cup finish never roused more intensity.
The two boats answered like racehorses to the
whip, and a betting crowd shouted “ Killara ” or
“Cull.” The finish was so fine that the goal gun
shot right through the winner’s sail; pieces went
up to Heaven in a glorified hurrah. The win was
all the more exciting as the boats had raced
straight into the declining sun, and in the distance
the blur of gold light caused golden-molten words
to issue from mouths situated directly under race
glasses.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide:—
We bought our winter garments of repentance a fort-
night ago ; and then hot days rudely came back uninvited.
The consequent return to the last rags of summer has
wrecked tempers and shorn recent revels of everything
sensational in the way of frocking. But the Port races
on the 19th were a gladsome fixture, in spite of the linen-
and-muslin garniture of the Elect. The club, which is
always very kind to its patrons, threw in a few sea
breezes with the luncheon, besides a big crowd and
several handy 7 tote dividends.
The temperature had climbed still higher on Tuesday
afternoon when Mayor and Mrs. Cohen shook the indi-
vidual fist of the burgesses. It was their first big public
function in something like five years, but it might have
been five days for all the change time had made in the
host and hostess. Mrs. Bridgeland, who, as jolly Hannah
Cohen, was a big aid to the success of all former revels,
was on hand to help, looking very young and very 7 smart
in a frock of mauve charmeuse with passementerie and dia-
monds. Mrs. Cohen wore black silk, witli panels of heavy
laceover white, and plumy millinery. There vvereseveral
frocks that deserve to be w'ritten of in diluted rainbow
instead of common ink. One was Mrs. A. J. McLachlan’s
grey silk erfjpe, with its bolero of wide silvery lace, and
its narrow edging of orange and silver braid. Another
was Mrs. Robert Cruickshank’s pastel nirion over rose
silk, with yoke of filet lace embroidered in silver. Miss
Roberts, of the household of Collector-of-Customs
Stevens, was a dainty cream vision embroidered in pale
blue ; and Miss Ada Martin’s chiffons were Wedgwood
and beautifully braided. There were also several rooms-
ful of ices and tea, and a platform full of music.
The Cohens, who have been tasting the briny breezes
at Glenelg since their return to the State, come up to
town next month to be right on the scene of their labors.
Our altogether excellent Chamber of Manufactures’
Exhibition was opened by his Ex. on Thursday evening,
in the presence of a heat-wave and a crowd that tore its
sister’s millinery to shreds. There w'ere seats for the
Peerage, but the disappearage had to grapple for elbow-
room while it listed to an Ode and then “The Song
of Australia” (our song of Australia). This exhibi-
tion beats every bther one that has happened.
In the entrance is a picture of South Aus. in its wild
and uncombed days, and as you go in you meet it in
various stages of progression, up to the present highly-
cultured moment. The show will continue to astound
the multitude until the middle of May.
Next month—on April 2, to be exact—the Gavin
Gardiners’second damsel, Edith, will give her trousseau
its airing. A son of the Viner Smiths, of Fullerton
estate, will thereafter carry her portmanteau for her and
purchase her tram-ticket. Other knottings shortly ex-
pected are those of Miss Harrold and Mr. Baker; also
singer Boris Wylie and a son of the Burns Cumings, of
Thebarton.
Miss Marie Torrance has brought her own charms and
her Shakspearian repertoire over from Melbourne. She
has heard the dark rumor about “ Adelaide for Culture,”
and is determined to put it to the test. On April 23 will
be celebrated the birthday of the late-lamented William
Shakspeare, dramatist and money-lender, and Miss Tor-
rance will take a mortgage over the date and give a Shak-
spearian recital thereon in the Victoria Hall. Tenor
Wanborough Fisher has taken the affair under his mana-
gerial wing, and will also interject some melody. Mean-
time, Miss Torrance is being subjected to a procession of
dinners and receptions, which is a w’ay Adelaide has.
Ex-Police Commissioner Madley has gone a-flitting to
the Ma Country, having no longer need to concern him-
self with the burglar ; and 7965 girls who were wont to
rob him of race and football tickets and similar brie-5-
brae, are left lamenting.
We really can’t stop playing with our electric cars.
After we had opened all the various branches with a
separate flourish, one member of the Trust discovered by
a flash of genius that nobody had been all over all the
lines, straight off, without stopping. Naturally this had
to be rectified ; so he has sent out invitations to the Elect
to come and do it on April 8, and Jiave a little tea partv
somewhere on the track. After that somebody will
probably discover that we haven’t ridden in tlie cars
backwards, and we shall be invited to do that too.
Julius Superhumanus is with us for Easter, and the
cash of the matinee girl is already scarce in the land.
Mrs. Rogers, wife of the doctor, and an enthusiastic
orchid hunter and naturalist, departs with her son for
the Chilly Isles next week.
Muriel Matters, suffragette, reciter, and a daughter of
Adelaide, has dropped her sensational warfare in London
for the moment. At latest she was busy reciting “ Enoch
Arden” to Strauss’ music ; and London says it likes her
much better that way.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
The latest thing in unions is the Syrians’
Association, which is flourishing in a small way
at Lismore, Richmond River (N.S.W.). What
the Syrians want to associate for isn’t known.
Perhaps they want Home Rule in Damascus.
The inaccuracy of Australia’s imported
cleric is equalled only by his cheery willingness
to butt into any old circumstance whether he has
the strength of it or not. Rev. Golding Bird, the
Dean of Newcastle—he who hurled himself vio-
lently at the recent Newcastle coal strike, and left
a vast dent of amusement on the face of the
trouble owing to bis total ignorance of local labor
and other conditions —preached a Lenten
sermon last Sunday on the enormity of Gov.-
General Dudley’s conduct in attending the Sydney
Show on Good Friday. As an elocutionary effort
the sermon was all right; the only weak point
being that the Governor never went near the
Show on Good Friday. A general order for the
muzzling of excitable clerics wouldn’t be a bad
scheme at certain seasons of the year.
“ Dagonefc ” Sims declares, in London
Referee, that a patriotic woman who insisted on
buying a doll and a Noah’s ark of English make,
went all over London without being able to get
either. The only doll now made in England is
the cheap rag variety. Germany and Switzerland
have collared the trade.
“ S. Remo ” : The champion loner-winded
Wages Board of Q uee nsland-Brisbane clothing
trade-has announced that its award will be
ready in ApriL The Board was a p po inted on
November 26, 1908. and might have gone on
wrangling—and drawing fees—for 10 years if
Minister Appel hadn’t rooted it up. Probably
there has been n 0 other w Board in regard to
which the employers’ representatives have fought
so desperately to the last ditch of fat, and the
chairman’s methods would have broken the heart
Q f a navvy. It’s a fairly strong indictment
when a Phidston Minister arises and says he’s
had enough.
Touching an ancient family :
1 know some people who believe that South Australia
is a miBpr int for Smith Australia. Consider the family.
There - S R. Barr Smith, squatter, financier, capitalist,
probab ly the wealthiest Smith in Australia. Edwin T.
Smith, retired brewer, mayor, politician, also looms large
as a sporCs patrolli and pres ident of a hundred cricket
c i ubs . His s o n , Talbot Smith, figures as a literary and
draln atic dilletante. Richard Smith, head of Harris,
Scarfe and Co., is perhaps the wealthiest hardware mer-
chant in the Commonwealth. It would take more money
than The Bulletin poets have amongst them to buy out
these Smiths. The official Smiths are many. There
are t he pugnacious Dr. Ramsav Smith, Citv Coroner
and head the Health Department; and his'sworn foe,
owen Smyth, Superintendent of Public Buildings, who
spells himself with a “ y,” but pronounces himself like
an y common Smith. There is E. M. Smith, Deputy
Surveyor-General, whom Irvine once got to report on the
Victorian Lands Department; another Smith is Registrar
of the Scboo i of Milies ; still another is Superintendent of
Mercantile Marine ; one more is Lieut. Commander of
Naval Forces. Then, in the law, there are the Vilieneuve
Smiths, claiming descent from that Admiral Vilieneuve
who fou , rht N e i Bon at Trafalgar. There is Viner Smith,
a ] ea der of the cold-tea parly ; and, by way of set-off,
there is Sydney Smith, of Yalumba, a big vigneron who
brews a full-bodied port. Nepean Smith is a prominent,
orchardist and authority on fungi, aphides and similar
cattle, and there are florist and seed-merchant Smiths
innumerable. The Stock Exchange yields Stow Smith, a
prominent broker, also a leader in “young men ”
societies and such like. The State once had a freak
Smith who spelt himself “ Smyjth.” He was commonly
called “Smut” for convenience. Among the oldest in-
habitants are Adam and Noah Smith. There are torrem s
G f j obn Smiths, but only one of them is famous. He
j s a J I’


MISS BRAYTON’S TRIBUTE TO VALAZE.
MISS LILY BRAYTON, whose name is a synonym for chic and
dainty charm, is the most beautiful and vivacious actress England
has sent us. Coming recently to this country, she quickly established
herself as a popular favorite.
With her beauty and physical charm, Miss Brayton is an
ideal exponent of Shakespearian heroines. Her acting is
o
not soon to be forgotten.
As may be seen by a charming photograph here repro-
duced, Miss Brayton is not slow in recognising the great
value of the Valaze toilet preparations, and acknow-
ledging their unquestioned superiority. “ Every
woman should use Valaze to preserve her complexion.
It is really wonderfully effective, and delightful
to use.”
This evidence should serve as a more than
sufficient hint to the average woman who
wishes to be certain that she is right in her
selection of what is essential to a scientific
and competent care of the complexion.
Miss Lily Brayton is only one of many
beautiful and famous women who sing the
praises of Mile. Rubinstein’s Valaze prepara-
tions. Great praise came from Miss Lily
Elsie, the brilliant and scintillating creator
of the name part in the London “ Merry
Widow.” She wrote :“I am greatly pleased
with the Yalaze Soap and Valaze Powder.
The Soap is the nicest complexion Soap I
have ever used, and I find the Powder ex-
ceptionally good as well.” Then Miss Ella-
line Terriss, than whom it would be difficult
to find a more idolised personality on the
British stage, writes: “ I have tried the
Yalaze Powder, and find it delightful to use,
while the Valaze Skin Food is a most valu-
able preparation, and I shall most certainly
recommend it.” • And Miss Alice Crawford,
the beautiful Bendigo girl, states : “ Valaze
does precisely what the skin requires—it
preserves its tone, whiteness and clearness
as no other preparation has done.” And
there are many others.
MISS LILY BRAY TON.
burn, tan and freckles, and brightness and freshness of the skin. It should
be remembered that Valaze is not a “make-up,” but a skin food, being a
nourisher, cleanser and purifier, so that by its use the skin’s freshness,
brightness and radiance become your very own. The price of Valaze is
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. a jar, 6d. postage.
Valaze does not pose as a cure-all; nothing so foolish; and so, for the
many blemishes that mar the beauty of women, Mile. Rubinstein
provides the following preparations :
For blackheads and open pores, the most common and distressing
complaint among Australian girls, there is the Yalaze Blackhead
and Open Pore Cure, which instantly banishes all trace of acne,
pimples and blackheads, closes the Open pores, and refines the skin's
texture. It is also excellent for whitening, softening and refining
the hands. 2s. lOd. posted.
Valazfe Face Powder, a pure, dainty and wholesome associate of
Yalaze. It is especially adapted for normal and greasy skins.
The Novena Poudre is a “fat ” powder, which is the only one
which is a skin food as well. Beneficial for dry skins, 2s.
and 3s. a box each.
Valaze Complexion Soap—perfect soap for toilet use—
made of rare herbs and almonds ; pure and
economical, 2s. 2d. posted.
Yalaze Liquidine is a positive corrective for
blackheads, pimples, greasiness, coarseness, and
flushing of the cheeks and nose, Bs. 6d. and
firi ■nnef.norp
Yalaze Snow Lotion is a liquid powder of
rare distinction, and it will not be surprising
that such a toilet requisite not only refreshes,
cools and whitens the skin in the hottest
weather, but also enables it to retain that
dull, ivory finish which adds so much distinc-
tion and charm to the plainest face. This
specialty is for night and day use, and
creates a delightful effect on the shoulders,
neck and arms. In three shades—pink,
white and cream—3s. 6d. a bottle, 6d.
postage. ’ F ;
Valaze Rouge Tenace—a natural coloring
for the cheeks, which cannot be detected—is
not displaced by heat or perspiration.
Is. 6d. and 3s.
Valaze Skin Food is Nature’s own replenisher. It antiseptically clears the
pores, stimulates the tissues, so that the skin breathes right, looks right, and
is right. This means freedom from tell-tale lines, wrinkles, sallowness, sun-
All Valaze preparations obtainable from Mile. RUBINSTEIN, Valaze
Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney; Dept. 20, 274 Collins Street, Melbourne;
or from all leading chemists.
THE CONQUEST OF
THE AIR.
The first successful flight in Australia
was on a machine covered with Con-
tinental Balloon Sheetings.
Houdini's record-breaking: flight, at Digger's Rest, Victoria, on
the IBth inst., was made on a Voison bi-plane, fitted with Con-
tinental Balloon Sheeting:*
Thus ag:ain do Continental Rubber Goods assert themselves;
excelling: in the conquest of the air as well as on the roads.
More than 90 per cent, of the Balloons, Aeroplanes and Air-
ships of the world have been covered with Continental Sheetings.
The list of record-breakers includes names such as Zeppelin, Bleriot, Lambert,
and now Houdini, proving beyond all doubt that these world-famous Balloon
Sheetings are the most reliable manufactured.
Supplies are stocked at our Australasian Depots —and we will be pleased to
quote on request.
tyrks
Depots at SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LAUNCESTON, ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE, PERTH, CHRISTCHURCH and AUCKLAND.
Do You
know
that
SI
WASH SILK
is Fast Color, Highest
Lustre, Artistic Shades
Why waste your labor using
inferior silks-buy Corticelli-
& see the difference in results
We stock a large variety of exclusive designs
for Cushions, Tea Cloths, Tray Cloths, Canvas
Centres, Bed Spreads, Curtains, etc., in Mt.
Mellick, Floral, Conventional, Battenburg, Ajour
Bluet, Eyelet, Biedermaier, Lingerie. Wallachian,
hardanger.
If you have any difficulty in procuring what
you require in Corticelli goods, write direct to
us and we will see that your orders are executed
properly.
Corticelli Silk Mills
ESTABLISHED 1838
91a YORK ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W., Australasian Headquarters
Write
us
direct
for further
particulars.
T
1
\
©
A Moustache would Improve You
fill out your features and give character to your face.
We guarantee you a handsome moustache if you have the least sign
of down on your lip.
CAPILLARINE
is a genuine Moustache producer and strengthened
A little rubbed on each night is all that is required.
Sent to Any Address in the World, 10/0 Post Free.
Craig* & Ait ken, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established j3O Years.
f 5
S


A. SAUNDERS.
lIOT-WATER JUG, Pure Sil-
ver-Plated, Hand-Engraved,
Highly Burnished,
15/6.
Other Styles, 25/,
30/, 35/.
EFUL APPROPRIATE PRESENTS
A; SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4-Bottle, Fancy Glass
Bottles, Silver-Plated Frame,
14/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 17/6, 21/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, by James
Dixon, Silver-Plated Nickel-
Silver, Crystal Glass Bottles,
10/«.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
DIVISION VEGETABLE DISH, Pure
Silver-Plated Nickel Silver,
2 Compartments,
ao/. .
Other Styles, 45/, 50/, 60/.
11111111111 l
t~«ss ß r~.« ssg .
'A.tfitzccvicl&zg.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS,
Pure Silver-Plated, Handsomely Finished,
in Silk-lined Case,
12/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
«rt
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Jas. Dixon’s Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Beautifully
Embossed, Silver Steel Blade, Plated Knife,
20/.
Other Styles, Hi/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
Illustrated are a number of Wedding
Present ideas of a quality that give life-
long satisfaction. USEFULNESS and Beauty
of our Stock is a distinct feature. Our
Silverware Department is the Finest and
Largest in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel
Silver, Hand Engraved Lid and Base,
Crystal Glass Dish,
A 1 Quality,
lO /G.
A. SAUNDERS.
OIL and VINEGAR STAND, Pure
Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver
Frame, Hand-Cut Crystal
Glass Bottles,
£2.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/.
M
A. SAUNDERS.
CUTLERY SET, J Doz. Dessert Knives, Finest
Slieffield Steel, with square Xylonite handles, and
h Doz. Solid Nickel Forks, in Leatherette Case,
Satin-lined,
15/.
TABLE KNIVES,
ISO/.
We send All Goods (with the exception
of Clocks and Chinaware) Post Free to any
Address. Write for a copy of our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue. It contains
over 3000 designs, and is yours for the ask-
ing. Write for a copy to-day.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL and TONGS, Pure
Silver-Plated, Bow], Blue
Glass Lining,
4/6.
MB
m
m
i . /
m
m
<a 2
■
ass
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE FRUIT OR CHEESE DISH, with
SERVER, Silver-Plated Nickel Silver Base,
Crystal Glass Dish,
25/.
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, CO/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, English Oak,
Silver-Plated Mounts and Shield,
10/6.
Other. Styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
-p‘
rEA AND COFFEE
comprising Tea,
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVICE, by James Dixon, Famous Pure Silver-Plated, on White Metal, Al quality,
Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, hand-engraved, Fern Desigii, Gilt Lined with Covers,
£5.
4 o’c. Size, £3. (
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Silver-Plated Frame,
Ruby-Tinted Glass,
7/6.
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 9/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver
Plated Nickel Silver, Pure
Crystal Cut Glass Dish,
15/<».
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKETS, Pure Silver-Plated,
Richly Hand-Engraved and Embossed,
Size, 9J x 9J in,
£2.
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/.
■ Q!fl
E
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND, 2 Cups and Spoons. Pure
Silver-Plated Nickel Silver.
Gilt-lined, richly fluted,
s£o/.
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
r'
w r ’
A. SAUNDERS.
GONDOLIER PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
Plated Nickel Silver Frame,
Milled Glass Dish,
12/tt.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT CARVERS, Buckliorn Handles. Carving Knife, Fork, and Steel, Finest Sheffield
Steel, in Velvet-lined Case,
12/6.
Other Styles, 10/0, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 25/. 30/, up to 72 ; 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Fancy
Floral China, Silver-
Plated Mounts,
9/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
IQ
F
(Firl
05
jr
Mr
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET, 4-Bottle, Pure Silver-
Plated, Nickel Silver, Crystal
Glass Bottles,
17/0.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A
\
SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and Stand,
James Dixon’s Pure Silver-
Plated, A 1 Quality, Rustic
Stand, Richly Embossed,
£2.
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
J-Doz SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure Silver-Plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Hand-engraved
Silk-lined Box.
] 7/6.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL, Fancy China, Pure Silver-plated
Servers, fitted with China Handles,
15/6.
Other Styles, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/, _/.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


is
''' '' H Syi >- x'
SSI
■
ft!
ftwMwwl
m
% i *■ * i
*• ■ \t
WSKmM SJ
mm 1
4)
j^’:J
f'-K ' ■
1
*
K.l:\
■rf
4£g
I
v
m
S
s
ft
sa
Hfe. .' ! •;
■ I ,
S
IS
m
Mi
,;:'v 'V'.-,';-
«iSI
■■:
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
■
.
mm |
and all porLs in each
l AUSTRALIAN STATE
M
: H
m
•i>
. ■ ■
ADELAIDE S.C9 LIP
HOWARD SMITH C°L T P
A.U.S. N. C?
„ >v '
Sjiiiii
■ ■ ■
mmm
v
I - 1
OFFICES
AGENTS
ALL
POR T S


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., ys., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PlLES.— There is no more
painful complaint from which
than Piles. The most effectiveci
BALM. Certain in every case,
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
distressing and
you can suffer
re is BALLAS
Obtainable from
GRINDING the TEETH WHILE ASLEEP.
Strong Indication of Worms.
One of the most pronounced symptoms of worms
in children is grinding the teeth and suddenly
starting up out of sleep. There are many symp-
toms of this most distressing complaint from
which not only children
suffer, but adults also.
When there is a tendency
to pick the nose, and the
bowels are irregular, some-
times constipated, and at
other times relaxed, the
appetite variable, a copi-
ous flow of saliva, and a
swelling of the upper lip,
there is a strong evidence
of the presence of worms.
The best proof of worms
is worms, and if their
presence is suspected immediate steps should be
taken to positively establish the fact, and when
once established Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets should be administered according to
directions. Worms require a specific medicine,
and there is no remedy so effective as these
Pellets. They kill the worms, destroy their eggs
and dislodge their nests. On sale at all chemists;
price Is. 6d., or will be forwarded at same price
by The W. H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
E. RESOH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agrents—RlCHAßD HOLMEB & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Visitors to Rand wick on Saturday got plenty
of fun for their money, and have the pleasing
consciousness that they added considerably to
the happiness of their bookmaking friends. There
was a fine field for the Autumn Stakes, with
such horses as Bobrikoff (from Maoriland), Maltine, Tra-
falgar and Pendil doing their little best to land the hand-
some prize. They arrived in that order, Bobrikoff nearly
a length ahead. Maoriland cracks seem to have a liking
for this race, Bobrikoff’s time (2min. 33sec.) being only
half a second ahead of the record for the distance —estab-
lished by Noctuiform and Maniapoto, from the same part
of the world, five years ago. Storey’s victory in the Don-
caster Handicap was one of the surprises. Blue Book
started favorite, and managed to come in third or fourth
from the last in a full field of 26. It isn’t as if Storey
happened on slow competitors or that he was the
best of a bad lot, for his time was equal to the
fastest on record for the race. Fact is, the Great
Public was beginning to yearn for new proof of the
alleged uncertainty of racing, it having been steadily
borne in on said Public that there are two dead certain-
ties in the game—that the race is not to the swift, and
that the money invariably goes to the booky. So the
little gods that watch over Alexander Abrahams, the
book, put it into the head of Storey—who was origin-
ally bought for 20 guineas, and who was vainly offered
for private sale last week—to romp home easily in the
Doncaster. There was nothing very exciting about the
St. Leger ; Prince Foote, the favorite, won as he liked
from Danilo and Diabolo. Beverage justified the confi-
dence of his backers by winning the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. (If it had been a Cup he probably wouldn’t have
won, for that would have been too much in accordance
with the fitness of nomenclature.) Another favorite, in
the person of Poi Dance, won the High-Weight Handicap,
and this pleasantly ended a day which opened with the
upsetting 7 of a couple of jockeys and all the anticipations
of the wise in the First Hurdle.
* * * •
Monday was dull, cool, almost gloomy, and
supplied all the conditions for fast racing. And it was
fairly swift—too swift for the public to keep pace with.
No less than 17 lined up for the Flying Handicap, and in
spite of the splendid uncertainty the best price going
was 15 to one against Mala. Mindful, the winner, went
out at sevens ag-ainst—a fairly sure indication that
practically no one was backing- him. Gold Thread,
the favorite, started at nine to two against, and never
got a place—presumably owing- to the weight of the
public money the brute carried. Champagne Stakes,
with £lOOO added, saw an exceptionally good field, from
the bookmakers’ point of view, a baker’s dozen breasting
the tape. The public swag went on Beverage, which
started at 9to 4 against, and finished seventh. A sudden
demand for Lady Peggy brought the price down with a
run, and the mare went out at fives, only to finish
tenth. Desert Rose, a daughter of Malster by Man-
gosteen, with 9st. 41b. (including 101 b. penalty) up,
went out at sevens. After a couple of false starts,
Precious dashed away and led into the straight, where
Desert Rose and’ Gilgandra closed up, with Bobadea
in close pursuit. Desert Rose won easily enough,
three lengths to the good, with Bobadea and
Gilgandra second and third. The brutes that car-
ried the public swag again broke down under the weight.
Sydney Cup, the two-mile spin for £3OOO added money,
brought along 20 starters ; and, in view of the number
engaged, Abram Abrahams opened up his heart and
his odds. He actually bellowed hundreds ; but the
serious business was conducted in fives and sixes.
Trafalgar, Daisy Chain and Vavasor carried the
public cash—or, rather, the first two did. What
went on Vavasor was said to have been a commis-
sion worked off at the last moment before the race
started, and then Vavasor dropped to zero or was refused
outright. In the end the race was a duel between Vava-
sor and Daisy Chain, and Vavasor won by two lengths,
with Jinnee third. Altogether, it was a dolorous day,
the doings of which should be more properly chronicled
in the “ Wild Cat ” page.
* * * *
Between Fused election meetings, explosions
and other irregularities, Melbourne is a noisy place these
days, and one of the rowdiest episodes was the annual
meeting of the Carlton Football Club. Ballotting for the
officials had proceeded loudly throughout the day, until
Town Clerk Clayton, a placid old gentleman of sedate
habit, wearied of the arguments and ordered the whole
caboodle off the premises. But the disturbance of the
day-time was mild to that of the night. Even the “ diffi-
cult” election meetings of Trenwith and McPherson
were outdone, and for nearly two hours pandemonium
raged. After various amendments had been confusedly
carried in defiance of the chairman’s ruling, and that per-
son had cheerfully declined to vacate the seat from
which he had been “ moved,” he metaphorically declared
the episode over and everything finished. Thereupon,
amid deafening uproar, the malcontents or reformers
rushed the platform and started a meeting of their own
whilst their ousted opponents raved, sang, gesticulated
and shouted motions and amendments in wild abandon.
Finally, a new chairman, escorted to the seat of
honor, got to work by pointing an accusing
finger at individuals before him and hissing “Traitor,
traitor.” They instantly left the hall, per boot. After
that a semblance of order was restored, and the meeting
carried resolutions that the previous chairman’s rulings
be capsized, and that the election bold during the day be
declared invalid and another held on March 31. It was
a gaudy meeting, and if Carlton’s players possessed half
the vim of its barrackers the team would be invincible.
The funniest part of the proceedings happened next
morning, after the returning officer had spent the night
counting the votes, when it was learned that the malcon-
tents had won all along the line, ousting the old presi-
dent, vice, treasurer, committee and even secretary
Worrall. And they had raved and perspired and shouted —
only to rob themselves of their legal victory.
* * * *
“Boot ” : Concerning Australian football. The
annual meeting of the N.S.W. League takes place on
Friday night, when a vigorous effort will be made by the
“ Reform Party ”to pump new life into the affair. Last
year’s selection committee was a failure, and it would be
a good idea for the League to try a dictator for a while.
Dictators are a splendid idea as long as a good man can
be found for the job. In this case the League has a pro-
mising candidate in Mr. Dawes, a man of parts and
sagacity, who has captained teams in inter-State
struggles; and it might do worse than give him atrial.
If he is a worse failure than the committee of the past
year he can alwavs be assassinated.
•* *•■**
G. A. Wheatley (Australasian mile and half-
mile champion) will have to hustle before he beats the
world’s record for the half mile (lmin. 52 4-ssec.) put up
b.v Emilio Lunghi (the Italian amateur champion) at the
Canadian championships held in September last. Up to
then Charlie Kilpatrick’s record of lmin. 53 3-ssec. (put
up at New York on Sept. 21, 1895) had stood the test of
all attacks. Other good times over this distance are—
Frank Hewit, lmin. 53Jsec., done at Maoriland, Sept. 21,
1871 ; Melvin W. Shephard (lmin. 53 3-ssec.), Sep. 29,
1906, put up at Travers Island, New York ; D. C. Junner
(lmin. 56sec.), done at Melbourne Cricket Ground, April
17, 1890, on a grass track ; the same ped did lmin. 55sec.
on a cinder track.
Wheatley’s performances over the “ half ” since
he donned the spikes and sing-let are interesting- to note.
On New Year’s Day, 1904, he won the half-mile champion-
ship in something over 2min., but was ruled out for
coming up on the inside. Dr. Harvey Sutton won in the
slow time of 2min. 7sec., but the race, as “ Dad ” puts it,
was only 200yds. from home. In 1904, at the Australasian
championships, he ran second to Sutton in the half-mile
in lmin. 58 2-ssec., and the mile in 4min. 30 4-ssec.,
being beaten by inches in both races. In November,
1905, he secured the half-mile and mile Australasian cham-
pionships in the respective times of lmin. 57 3-ssec. and
4min. 23sec. —thus securing an Australian record for the
mile. At the Shrubb-Duffy meeting in 1905, Wheatley 7
ran a dead heat with Norman Burrows (East Melb.)
in the half-mile championship of Victoria; and, in the
run-off, won in 2min. 4-ssec. He then toured Maoriland
with Shrubb and Duffy (since turned pros.). At Dunedin
he ran second to Hector Burke in the half, the winner’s
time being lmin. 58 l-ssec. Competing at Christchurch,
he won the half-mile championship of Maoriland in 2min.
4sec., run on a heavy track, with a head wind. Calling
at Dunedin, he won the half in a “cake-walk,” his
time being 2min. 3sec. He competed with Shrubb at
Auckland in the mile handicap, and ran third. In the
same afternoon Wheatley won the “half” handicap, off
40yds., in lmin. 59sec. Journeying to Sydney with
Shrubb and Duffy, he competed with the former in the
Mile Championship of New South Wales, Shrubb winning
by 7 loyds., on a heavy track, in 4min. 26see. On April 24
of the same year he won a half-mile handicap, off scratch,
in lmin. 56 4-ssec., thus breaking Harvey Sutton’s Aus-
tralasian record (lmin. 57 4-ssec.). A few months later
he won a “half” handicap, off scratch, in 2min.
lsec., put on the East Melbourne Cricket Ground
during the half-time interval of a toeball match.
In February of the same year he sailed for Athens to take
part in the Olympic Games; but a sunstroke, which he
received at Colombo, told against him. He was unplaced
in the 800 metres race, and placed fourth in the 1500
metres race. Last year he won the 1000yds. run-in at
the combined opening run. Competing at the Aus-
tralasian championships, held at Brisbane, last August,
he won the half-mile in 2min. 1 3-ssec. (run on a heavy 7
track); collared the mile in 4min. 29 4-ssec., and ran
second to Nigel Barker in the “ quarter.” “ Dad ”is un-
questionably the finest miler and half-milerin Australasia,
and his performances at the Victorian track champion-
• ships, to be held next Saturday at the Melbourne Cricket
Ground, will be watched with great interest. He is also
announced to make an attack on the 1000,yds. record on
April 23, at the Melbourne Hare and Hounds Open Sports.
* * * *
E. A. Pearson started last Thursday morning
to beat Salvana’s record for the Sydney to Melbourne
cycling run, but something went wrong with the attend-
ing commissariat motor, and the attempt had to be
abandoned at Goulburn, which was reached ahead of
schedule time. On Tuesday last he started on another
effort, which had not concluded when this issue went to
press.
* ■* * *
Syd Day hadn’t had time to get tired of his three-
weeks’ plaything, the Sydney to Melbourne motor record,
when G. G. White hurried up and took it away 7.
Mr. White is the man whose record (577 miles in 21hr.
I9min.) Mr. Day smashed by covering the distance on his
Dunlop-shod 25-h.p. Vinot car in 20hr. lOmin. This
was too much for White, who swore that he wouldn’t
eat his Good Friday 7 bun at all unless he devoured
it in Melbourne after a little exercise on a 35-h.p.
Talbot, fitted with Continental tyres. (As a mere
matter of chance he had that precise vehicle
devouring its own head in his stable.) Accordingly he
started from Sydney G.P.O. at 1 a.m. on Maundy Thurs-
day (special attention is invited to the ecclesiastical style
of this par, which is written by the Religious Editor’s
understudy) and pulled up at Melbourne G.P.O. at
8.47 p.m. of the same exciting day 7. Trifling mathemati-
cal operations will show that Mr. White did the trick and
again seized upon the record in 19hr. 47min., an average
of 29 miles an hour over all sorts of tracks —good, bad and
three different kinds of horrible. This time was 23min.
less than Mr. Day’s. The margin is so small that we’ll
probably have Mr. Day trying his hand again, and then
Mr. White ; and so on till the cars burst or the record is
reduced to minutes and seconds. Of course, there must
be an end somewhere. If there wasn’t, the car would
ultimately arrive at Melbourne before it started from
Sydney, which would be absurd, for in that case it would
have to come back from the place it arrived at in order
to start from the previous place so that it could reach
the first place ; and things would ultimately become so
bad that it would leave one city 7 to-morrow aiid reach the
other last week. And then all time would be going back-
wards, and if no one could run after it and stop it, the
end might be that Bruce Smith would be killed at the
battle of Marathon. And a lot of worse men than Bruce
Smith were killed there.
* * + •
When Mr. John Quick gets back to Parliament
for Bendigo and resumes his epoch-marking control of
the Postal Department, he might turn his fast and furious
head in the direction of what is being done in London as
regards postal motor-car services. There are 60 daily
motor services in the Village, covering 40,000 miles per
month, and showing a saving, as compared with the
horse-drawn vehicles, of over £60,000 a year. How would
it be for John Slow to gird up his loins and try an experi-
ment in this direction ? In a perfectly friendly way this
suggestion is offered to Mr. John Dead.
On Saturday Dick Arnst will row off his queer
race for the championship with George Whelch. There
was probably never a race like this in the world before—
for the same amount of money and the championship of
the planet. On his showing at the recent Wanganui
kick-up Whelch is obviously a second-rater; and when he
threw a challenge at Arnst, the champion, who was just
then busy trying to find an out-size in hats, cheerfully
remarked he would row Whelch anywhere—on the Styx,
if he liked. George chose Akaroa Harbor instead,
and Arnst found himself in honor bound to agree.
Being a sport and full of sand, Richard did not
shirk the test, although he probably realised that
Whelch was a lineal descendant of the wily Saxon who
craved for as much earth as he could surround with a
bull’s hide, and then cut the hide into strips, so that it
would go a long way, and built a formidable fort on the
area thus acquired. Akaroa Harbor is a sheet of dead
water without a current, but liberally sprinkled over
with large holes and hummocks of foam. Writer has
seen Akaroa Harbor smooth as a duck-pond, but the
Oldest Inhabitant candidly admitted the occasion was
very rare indeed. If Dick strikes another such rare
occasion he will win ; but if he happens upon the usual
state of the floor, anything is possible. So the articles
of the Barry match remain unsigned till the Whelch
bogey has either vanished in smoke or materialised into
a solid but rather small champion, about to start for
the Zambesi in Africa.
* * * *
The result of the defeat of Tasmania bv the
South Tasmanian eight-oar crew is to locate the "Inter-
State Eight Championship contest on the Derwent River
at Hobart on April 30. The Fl vspeck has dual control in
quite a number of branches of sport, and the fact creates
a spice of uncertainty that is always exhilarating.
It pains this indignant paper to have to record
that the Oxford-Cambridge boat-race was rowed in Holy
Week. What with Lord Dudley being sternly rebuked by
Advertising Dean Somebody of Newcastle for going to
the Sydney Show on Good Friday (Dudley didn’t go,
but that was a mere detail to the Dean); and with
imported Archbishop Wright going to a public dinner in
the same melancholy week, and being preached to death
by wild curates for the crime, it looks as if there’s a
serious slump somewhere. After which outburst, it may
be casually mentioned that Oxford was the favorite, and
won. Which served Cambridge darned well right for
rowing in Holy Week.
* * » *
Already there are signs that the “Parramatta
Hundred,” to be rowed on the river of that name on
April, 30 and May 7, is going to boom, if not bellow. No
less than 21 scullers, including Dick Arnst, the Pearce
Brothers, Hagney, the three Mattersons, the Towns
brothers, and a crowd of others, all more or less known,
have signified in the usual way that they will be on the
job. An interesting item is that big Jack Arnst will
accompany his little brother Dick, and also make a figure
on the water. Presumably, now he is biffed out of cycling,
the great road-racer will take to the river.
* * * *
Last Tuesday morning, about 8.50, the ferry-
boats foaming along in the vicinity of Neutral Bay
(Sydney) observed a slim, black yacht, with a string of
signal flags fluttering at the masthead, slipping up the
Harbor towards Admiralty House. Thereupon the air
was rent into several thousand fragments by the hoarse
erowingof many sirens, bellowing out a mighty welcome
to plucky Culvvulla 111., back from its long cruise and
its fight for the Sayonara drinking utensil.
* * * *
Burns reckons that he will have got over his
cucumber outbreak by April 11, on which date he will
fight Lang for the new belt—also for the new glory, the
“ white championship ” of the world. Whoever wins
this proud distinction can only hold it till July 4, when
Jeffries, according to schedule, will knock the ear off
Johnson. Tommy doesn’t seem so certain of whipping
Lang as he generally is when he tongue-fights before the
battle, for he has stipula ed for another contest should
he be defeated—the second collision to take place within ,
six weeks, and before Lang’s departure for America.
* * * *
There was a regular small arms factory at the
Sydney Stadium on Tuesday, when a mixed assortment
of featherweights entered on the first round of the tour-
nament instituted by Mr. H. D. Mclnstoush. The laud-
able object of this tournament is to ascertain by process
of selection the “next best” featherweight in N.S.W.,
and then to pit him against Sid Sullivan, the State cham-
pion. Frank Thorn, who holds the Australasian title,
will forthwith be urgently invited to demolish the
winner—or otherwise. The fights on Tuesday were
bright and cheerful functions, one in which Harry Ireland
sparred with Joe Conroy whilst the latter gentleman was
buffeting him with alacrity, being particularly mirth-
ful. The police sprang hastily to its spacious feet,
and stopped proceedings in the sixth round of a wil-
ling go between Sailor Duffy and Soldier Ferguson ;
more, it would seem, from fear of what might happen to
the land warrior than from any immediate necessity. He
had gone down three times, but there was plenty of fight
in him when the strong arm of the Law pulled him out of
the ring. From the moment Billy Elliott came into close
quarters with his young friend, Frank O’Grady, it was all
up with said friend. O’Grady inflicted a lot of punish-
ment, but Elliott took it with more than Christian de-
signation (much to the evident satisfaction of Rev.
“ Snowy” Baker, who smiled benignly on the combatants
in the capacity of referee) and returned it with more than
Hebrew interest. The only fight that saw the 10 rounds
through was that between Paddy Lebres, a determined-
looking youth who meant business all the time, and Sacco
Newbury, who sparred as if he was playing a fiddle. He
struck a lively tune—also Paddy—occasionally, but
it wasn’t a triumphal march. Two big guns came
into action on Wednesday night in the persons of
Mike Williams and “Soldier” Bill Thompson. Both
stripped fat and well-looking ; much more so, indeed, than
was seemly for pugs, especially at this season of the year.
Williams gave his weight at 18st., and looked it all, and
Thompson his at list. 121 b. The heavier man was in
trouble with his breathing apparatus at a very early stage
in the battle, and was evidently under the impression
that, if he didn’t hustle, he would be a breathless fat man
on the floor in short order. He accordingly forced the
fight, and Thompson took refuge in frequent and con-
tinuous clinches. When the pair got a bit excited, this
manoeuvre failed to act, both men punching vigorously
when they were in holds. Mr. “Snowy” Baker mur-
mured “Break ” with fervor, but he might as well have
been Edward Vll.’s ancestor preaching peace to the sea.
Then he started separating the men, which gave him a
lot of healthy exercise, but had little more effect than a
house-fly would have on a couple of elephants. Weight
told in the end, and Thompson, who was floored in the
fifth round, was clean knocked out in the sixth.
* * * *
Jeffries, the stout party who proposes to bang
Sheol into Mas’ Johns’n on July 4, has been guaranteed a
lump sum of £30,000, or a salary of £2OO a week plus 50
per cent, of the profits above that amount, for a 10
months’ tour of the world at the head of an athletic
show—provided, of course, that he bangs more Sheol into
Johns’n than Johnson bangs into him. The accompany-
ing team will probably include Stanley Ketchell, Battling
Nelson, Sam Berger, Frank Gotch and others. When
spoken to concerning the arrangement, the Big Nigger
whom it is proposed shall be banged announced that he
didn’t stand for it, owing to having made other arrange-
ments, Said arrangements include the establishment of an
undertakery, with Jeffries as the first funeral ; cortege
to start from Salt Lake City on Independence Day.
• * * *
Mike Williams (13st.) collided with Pat
O’Keefe (12st. 41b.) at Sydney 7 Stadium on Easter Monday
with disastrous results to both forces. Honors were
about even, and so far as pluck was concerned there was
nothing to choose between the men. O’Keefe was the
cleverer on his feet, and sometimes had his bulky
opponent looking vainly on the boards for a festive
pugilist who had dodged a deadly punch and now was
smiling at him in battle array. There hasn’t been a
more willing fight put up at the Stadium for
some time, stoush being scattered by both men
with a glad hand and a generous heart. The
heavier man had all the best of it in the earlier
part of the series of casualties, and probably he would
have won out any 7 way on points. Towards the end both
men w 7 ere so tired that they languidly leaned up against
each other. Then one got a move on him and punched
his friend, who after an interval returned the call with
more or less vigor. When it was all over in the middle of
the eighteenth round and O’Keefe’s second had thrown
in the towel, Mike Williams gracefully saluted the other
with the kiss of peace : an embrace which would pro-
bably have been more appreciated if some unfortu-
nate accidents had not stained with gore the features of
both gentlemen. But his intentions were commendable.
* * *
The lawn tennis championships of Australia,
which are being played at Adelaide, led to some queer
legal positions. Rodney Heath (Vic.), as winner of the
open competition, had to play 7 Wilding (Maoriland) for
the Australasian championship, and Parker (now N.S.W.)
for the S.A. championship ; they being the respective
holders from last year. Wilding was not there to defend,
so Heath became champion of the Commonwealth, and .
.yet had a chance of being beaten for the State. Further,
Parker, though having the above privilege as S.A.
champion, could not be barred from playing right
through the Australian championship games, and he met
and was beaten by Heath half way through ; yet he could,
and did, claim to play him again at the finish. (All this
is quite apart from the unreasonableness of calling a man
who lives in Sydney or Melbourne the champion player
of S.A.) As it chanced. Heath was unbeatable, anyway.
He put out Rice (N.S.W.) in the final, and Parker again
in the challenge game. In doubles, however, Rice and
Campbell, both of Sydney, became champions. The Vic-
torian ladies won everything—Miss Addison in singles,
Misses Stewart anrl Wilmoth in doubles. Yet in the
“ mixed ” pairs a local couple, Taylor and Miss Boyce,
beat all the combinations of the above experts. The iady
is the new “matron” at St. Peter’s College, Adelaide.
The school is adopting the English plan of getting ath-
letes on its staff ; and it reckons that in Miss Boyce it
has found a kind of feminine Crawford.
* * * *
The next Davis Cup has been definitely fixed
for decision at Wellington, Maoriland, in December, and
there the victors of the Challenge Match between the
United States and England will hold their hats on with
one hand while they wield the racquets with the other.
An effort is being made to arrange that the preliminary
ties shall be played off in Australia, but the chances are
far from rosy.
* * * »
The Australasian Lawn Tennis Association's
annual balance-sheet proved to be a satisfactory bit of
manuscript. The receipts totalled £1503, and the ex-
pense of erecting structures and running the show ate up
£705. After accounts had been receipted Yankeeland
gathered in £386 as its half of the profits, and the Associ-
ation banged the books together at the end of the year
with a credit balance of £550.
• * * *
The S. Aus. club cricket season ended with
“ Solly ” Hill (82) right away from the field in batting.
Then came Gehrs, Caust and Claxton, all over 50 ; and
after them Dolling, Chamberlain, Desmazures and Roy
Hill. Clem Hill and Mayne were away down, but neither
of them played often. In the bowling Crawford headed
Wright by a fraction, both being under 12. Laycock,
Travers, Pretty, Coombe, Claxton and Rees followed,
and were all under 18. Whitty and O'Connor played
very little ; the latter, like Clem Hill, is far better in big
cricket than in club matches. Wright took most wickets
—59, the biggest bag on record since District cricket
began, in 1897. The club premiership was an easy thing
for East Torrens, even with Mayne and Whitty generally
away. Crawford, Roy Hill, Solly Hill and the Chamber-
lains were the backbone of a strong all-round side that
never lost a match.
* * • *
Cricket is limping wearily on its last legs in
Sydney, and the public is getting as tired of it ns if it
were a broken-up barrel-organ, played without monkey
attachment. Last Saturday’s pennant matches were in
terrupted by a Country v. City fixture, and a few people
who had nothing else to do turned in at the Sydney
Ground to have a quiet nap. A man named Fawcett
thought that what the people in their units had come out
for to see was his keeping his wicket up, so he
ran up the mammoth score of 13 in the first
hour of his brilliant batting. Something induced
him to get a hustle on afterwards ; but it was a poor,
slow, boiled kind of hustle at the best of times. This is
the sort of thing that is killing cricket, and if batsmen
of the Fawcett order are encouraged the public will stay
away from all matches in large crowds. Allman (117)
was the onlj- countryman who shaped in first-class style,
and indeed he made half the total for his deplorably
dismal side. Willcocks grabbed the bowling honors for
the Metropolis, taking eight wickets for 96 runs. The
game was anybody’s at the end of the first day—and it
might well be anybody’s for all anybody else cared ; but
eventually the Country won by. 21 runs on the first
innings.
* * * m
Vice-president Charlie Lloyd’s proposal to
N.S.W. Cricket Association last week to cut down inter-
state and international cricket matches to three days
each was quietly passed along to the executive committee
for report. Which is a roundabout way of dropping a
rock through the proposal.
• •* * *
The question of accelerating the rate of scoring
has been lately discussed by the English County cricket
clubs. Slow batting is generally regarded as being the
result of the professional players’ anxiety about their
precious “ averages.” They bat with the idea that if they
stay long enough at the wickets the runs are bound to
come. To the public it seems that a fairly accomplished
batsman, with a quick eye and good hitting powers, can
do as much for his average by trying to score 30 runs in
half an hour as by pottering along at the rate of 25 per
hour. Jessop was called a failure in Australia because he
rarely stayed long at the wickets ; nevertheless, his
average was respectable.
* *■ * #
There is a tremendous growth in commercial
vehicles in England, America and France (the last-named
had 15,338 registered in 1908), though you do see some-
such as brewers’ vans—about the streets. As an instance,
this is the vehicle traffic for a single day at eight given
points in London in 1903,1905 and 1908:
1903. 1905. 1908.
Two-wheeled carts 5,114 5,260 5,042
Four-wheeled carts and waggons 15,543 16,994 19,665
Private horse-carriages and cabs 43,790 47,833 29,967
Horse-omnibuses .. .. .. 32,790 32,661 15,216
Motor-omnibuses 537 10,914
Cycles.. .. 7,509 11,717 13,002
Private motor-cars 1,064 3,260 6,961
Commercial motor-cars .. .. 168 219 1,163
Taximeter-cabs 19,718
105,978 118,481 121,648
• • * *
An “Angry Australian”: Rc “M.P.” (B.
17/3/T0). I have always noticed when an Australian does
any world-beating effort the first to cast doubts are Aus-
tralians themselves. In criticising Donaldson’s 100yds.,
“ M.P.” starts all right, but after a couple of lines gets
lost in a maze of “ clocking,” where he wanders aimlessly
around until he finds himself in the middle of Ingram
Bros.’ patent timekeeper. He then wanders on to say
that if Donaldson put up his times against this patent,
he (Donaldson) could honestly say he had “busted the
record.” As the records Donaldson “ busted ” were made
by the watch, I can’t see how Don. should have to
change the method of time-taking for his efforts.
“M.P,” also states that “any trio of ancient peds with
fatty fingers that allow the ‘ press ’ of the watch to sink
into them before the seconds start ticking,” etc. Well,
if the aforesaid fatty fingers allowed the “ press” to sink
into them before the watch started would they not,
according to all common-sense views, also allow the
“press” bo sink into them before the watch stopped.
The moral of this par is, “Don’t be an Australian.” If
Hohvay had won in the time stated no doubts would be
cast on bis performance. The fact that Donaldson beat
Hohvay by 4£yds. (and Holway is no slouch) is proof
conclusive that the time was a record.


The "MOTA”
3777-
Smartness, {rood taste and a certain individuality
characterise The “MOTA.” It is more than a lounge
felt—more dressy and stylish, decidedly comfortable
and guaranteed to give excellent wear.
PRICES 7/6 to 1216. In all fashionable colors.
All Leading Houses throughout Australia stock them.
Ask for Illustrated Booklet, “ 1910 Hat Styles.”
The Austral Hat Mills Ltd., Abbotsford, Melbourne
Briar
Pipes
GBD
Briar
They copy us
They follow us
They never catch us.
You buy
and you buy
the Best.
(§BD)
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
l/- EACH POST FREE lA
Quality Not Better
in a
F Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
_ SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SIND TOR OUR TRADE L/ST
ten Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
SO % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
le by F. C. Calvert & Co., M anchester, Eng.
THE POCKET KINEMA TOGRAPH
Moving Picture Shovj
WITH EIGHTEEN LIVING PICTURES IN COLORS
Wonderfully Effective.
pEte
Only 1/G
Posted to any address.
QUITE NEW AND VERY INTERESTING
You wouldn’t believe it if you didn’t see it.
° D J ‘iv C 8 I ? io i ure3 ' and the Pocket Kinemato.
ma^ es them infinitely more interesting because it
SflTii t^ e P e °l ,le > an i ma >s. &c -alive and actire. Every scene
t i Ul i of .. moVemen • lhe effeots are really marvellous ; un-
riTen wTtwfe 7011 ‘ ,aTe eVe , r “ ee "r Eighteen pictures are
given with the apparatus and further series are in prepara-
iL°"- ho So “ e \ re reproduced m colors from actual plioto-
S If ™,°? er T very clever and amusing colored draw-
„ l£ you ha 7 e th ? artistic gift, you will see how you can
draw or trace other pictures to which the ’graph will impart
motion. Full printed directions. Obtainable only from P
The Union Manufacturing Co..
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ectian, 1910
BMLOT
%
m
r, ;
y//
2
SHtU
other*
Legal Notices.
WALTER BOWDIDGE.
"DURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of
the High Court of Justice (England) dated the 19th
January 1910 made in an Action in the Matter of the
Estate of MARY GRAY deceased wherein GEORGE
CLIFTON SHERRARD is Plaintiff arid The Trustee of
the property of JAMES BOWDIDGE a Bankrupt is
Defendant 1909 S. 2304 Whereby it was ordered that the
following Enquiry be made viz.—An Enquiry whether
WALTER BOWDIDGE in the Testatrix’s Will named is
living or dead and if dead when he died and if he died in
the lifetime of the said Testatrix (who died on the 19th
September 1908) whether he left any issue him surviving
who were living- at tlu- date of the death of the Testatrix.
And if the said WALTER BOWDIDGE survived the Testa-
trix or if he died in her lifetime having such issue as
aforesaid then who are his legal personal representatives.
The said WALTER BOWDIDGE if living or if he died
prior to the 19th September 1908 leaving any issue who
were living on the said 19th September 1908 then any
such issue or if he died subsequently to such date or left
such issue any persons claiming to be his legal personal
representatives is or are personally or by a Solicitor on or
before the 14th day of July 1910 to come in and prove his
or their claims at the Chambers of Mr. JUSTICE WAR-
RINGTON and Mr. JUSTICE PARKER at the Royal
Courts of Justice Strand London England or in default
thereof he or they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order Thursday the 21st day
of July 1910 at 12 o’clock noon at the said Chambers
Room No. 315 is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated this 16th dav of February 1910.
C'HAS. HULBERT,
Master.
NOTE.—The said WALTER BOWDIDGE left England
in September 1886 by the S.S. Torigariro and landed from
such vessel in Australia He was last heard of in thb
year 1891 when he was at Cowra New South Wales It is
believed that the said WALTER BOWDIDGE went up
country in that year Sheep Farming
SHERRARD and SONS,
34 and 36 Gresham-street,
London, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
FTHE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
PROBATE DIVORCE AND ADMIRALTY
DIVISION (DIVORCE).
To JEFFREY CHEEK late of Great Saling near Brain-
tree in the County of Essex, Farrier.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued in
this Division citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of Arthur Sydney Holland of Friars Place Chelmsford in
the County of Essex Jobmaster praying for a dissolution
of marriage. In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hfear the said Petition proved and pronounce
sentence in respect thereto. And take further notice
that for the purpose aforesaid within 100 days after the
date of this publication an appearance must be entered
at the Divorce Registry Somerset House Strand London.
ROBT. A. PRITCHARD,:
Registrar.
Solicitors: Woutner and Sons,
of No. 40 Bedford Row, London, England.
To Let.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
IMMIGRATION AND TOURIST BUREAU.
Sydney, 22nd March, 1910.
TENDERS FOR LEASE OF JENOLAN
CAVES HOUSE.
TENDERS will be received by the under-
signed up till noon on Monday, flth May,
1910, for the lease of the Accommoda-tion House,
•Tenolan Caves, for a period of 5 years from
Ist July, 1910.
Copies of the conditions and tender forms may
be obtained from the Immigration and Tourist
Bureau, Challis House, Sydney.
PERCY HUNTER, Director,
!(
IMb
Son)? Sccood*Hai)d Si>apS !
REAL BARGAINS—any one of these Cycles are wonderful value for the
money, and will pay you well to-buy.
THINK OF IT! Naumanns, Triumphs, Red Birds, B. and B.’s, Humbers,
Clevelands, Speedwells, Crowns,
Rovers, Pastimes, Cladiators,
From £3 15s. each.
Come along NOW, or send for our Price List straight away.
Our Pitt Street Depot is open every Friday till 9 p.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BAR KELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Buildin
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagti Street,
Sydney.
A Hi£h-Grade Man’s Shoe.
Perfection of fit, comfort, serviceability and
distinctive and dressy appearance characterise
every Rigney Shoe.
The shoe we illustrate is one of the latest
American models—an ideal boot for the man who
suffers with corns.
It’s a black Phoenix Calf Derby Shoe.
19 6, 21/-, 22/6.
Also in Tan, 23/6 and 25/- Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
A. M. L. g F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
. . t
I
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
StocK and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land# Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Blig'H Street, SYDNEY.
The recent floods, which set people climb-
ing trees west of Rockhampton (Q.) recall an old
journalistic feat performed by “ Buzzy,” alias
Charles Hardie Buzacott, which should be men-
tioned on the brick above his grave. Buzzy,
who had been a compositor on the Herald
and Empire in Sydney, put some battered type
and accessories in a red pocket-handkerchief, and
started to the new mining field of Peak Downs to
teach democracy to the miners. Down came the
floods one afternoon, and away" the popu-
lation for the highest trees. Buzzy was always
noted for circumspection, and he concealed pen
and ink apd a quire of paper in his pockets before
joining in the helter-skelter. Climbing to the
summit of his herb, he sat astride and wrote out
all the original matter required for his next issue.
Water runs off that country quickly, and Buzzy
was able to bring out his paper nearly up to time.
When, later on, in Buzzy’s big days on the
Rockhampton Bulletin and Brisbane Courier,
compositors felt disposed to go on strike, the
reflection that the boss was a man of infinite
resource more than once kept them at their toil.
Two new-chum officials who recently took
a back-country trip with the Governor of S. Aus.
prepared themselves for the worst. Besides the
open shirts, which the daring ad venturer always
should wear, they provided themselves with a
belt apiece, and in the belt they carried a knife
and a revolver. But Providence was good to
them, and mercifully kept off bushrangers, native
bears, wombats, and the other terrors of the waste
places of Australia.
The Senate candidates in S. Aus. are fight-
ing hard, and there is barely a settlement with
three men in it in the southern part of the State
that they have not visited. McGregor, the blind
but cheerful leader of the Labor party in the
Senate, seems a “moral” for first place; but
journalist Gordon and nondescript Charleston are
reckoned by the Fusionists to have a fighting
chance of beating Guthrie and Story, the other
Laborites. Shannon is generally looked upon to
fill the bottom place ; still three years ago it is
remembered that “ Billy” Russell was considered
to have no hope, whereas he was put in high on
the poll by the farmer vote. So even Shannon
doesn’t despair.
The Attention of every Cyclist
b called to the fact
Thai-
DUNLOP
I <
s' V
life®!
Are only Genuine
when they bear Itib
TRADE.
i
HARK
UneQualled for
Quality. Wear
S. Price.
The Dunlop Rubber Ccu
of Aus Ltd.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PER IH.
BRISBANE » n d CHRIS I CHURCH. NZ.


The simple, safe,
and reliable laxative, pleasant
to taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in
results—the laxative which restores strength
to the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
all impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
effectively stimulates the action of the Liver, Bowels
and Kidneys in Nature’s gentle way—is
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
The valuable tonic action of California Syrup of Figs, in
conjunction with its agreeable cleansing and corrective
properties, gradually overcomes the distressing
tendency to Habitual Constipat on.
L. Sold by Chemists at 1/3 and 1/11 only. Be sure you
| L. see the circular Trade Mark (as shown here)
Bfm*. printed in blue at the top ot the
**«***•■
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
gout AN °
JLIIm.II O rheumatic
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/gperbox
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells must
be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in the form of
tonics or sedatives, which stive temporary relief but
cannot effect permanent improvement.
LECITHIN is the ONLY substance by which the brain
and nerves can be nourished ; and it is LECITHIN which
the system requires in all cases of neurfisthinicconditions
(nervous disorders, dyspepsia, neuralgia, .brain-fag,
insomnia, depression, insanity, etc.). If the brain and
nerves can be suppli d sufficiently with Lecithin the cure
is certain: Antineurasthin supplies that substance and
effects the cure.
Antineuristhin is the ONLY known preparation con-
taining an effective percentage of Lecithin in,an active
organic state ; completely assimilable, and with its
valuable principles undiminished in any way.
A sample of Antineurasthin, together with a valuable
treatise on nervous disorders, will be despatched by re-
turn of mail by the wholesale distributor for Australia,
and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street, Bris-
bane, on receipt of Is. in stamps or postal note.
System
of Induced Draught for Mine Workings,
Tunnels, etc., and of Forced Draught for
Combustion, is Effective and Economical.
ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
THE HYDROBLAST CO.,
Patentees and Makers,
FLETCHER STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, front The Bulletin Office.
BEELTHAIVTS LAIT LARO ll\
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
in HOT
or COLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
QcZJHAM's
Lait
a/ro
makers
M.BEETHAM & SON,
CHELTENHAM, ENG LAND.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
Gives a
Perfect
[ONPLEXION
Soft
as
Velvet.
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
BEETHAM'S LAIT LAROLA
or
'SJ
X.\
m
n
W .... • .
* > ># •
3*32 5
/
tta
J
- J r *f j
v- -
'4. ftkfc
-
The “BIJOU”
is an ideal table fo)( home billiards. Fitted with
, slate bed and fast-running cushions, covered in super-
fine billiard cloth and beautifully finished. By a simple adjustment of leaves
it is readily converted into a fine dining-table.’ Easy terms arranged if desired.
No. !.—<9ft. x 4ft. £3l. No. 2.—Bft. x 4ft. 9#in., £25.
No. 3—7 ft. x 3ft. 9Xin., £22. No. 4. —6ft. x 3ft. 3#in., £l9.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK 8? Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Showrooms: 397 George St. Sydney; 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
[2
BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M. THE KING.
TRY IT IIM YOUR BATH
SORUBB’S-AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
isplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Serubb & Co. on each Bottle.
m
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
THE NEW TURBAN FRAME,
in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/6, postage 3d. extra; covered with natural
hair, 21/- Li<rht, dull and grey shades extra. Obtainable only at
The MISSES ISAACS,
Ladips’ Hairdressers. Hairworkers, etc.,
m , 161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Telephone 2138 Central, between Elizabeth and Castlereafrh Streets.
Combings Made Up. Country Orders promptly attended to.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
See the passing Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin—thin
people look stout. The
Laughing Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
Allgrowfat from laughter.
It is well and strongly
made, and cannot get out The Laughing Camera.
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Chinese Bar Puzzle.
The object
is to remove
the handle
from the
rings. You
get it out of
one ring,
you may get it out of two rings, hut can you get it
out of all the rings? It is sufficient to say that it
can be done. Very neatly and perfectly made, and
can be carried quite easily in the vest pocket. Made
of polished brass. This puzzle was made in China in
the early part of this century, and a few were
brought home made of ivory. Price complete, with
full directions. 1/- r>nst. free anywhere.
&
5 5
5 8
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
bandies, spring:
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open,
use, also a sunerior
directions, 2/2, post
Makes a splendid knife for general
rabbiter’s tpiife. Price, with full
free anywhere.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
NO.
710 GEORGE STREET,
, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HLTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
1 ®T anc Jj: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
_-E!!^!l_._. 1 L!_ Kln K Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Polstan : The Victorian Railway Depart-
ment’s idea of “more or less” is somewhat one-sided.
A w'hile ago a truck of oats w'as loaded for Melbourne by
an up-country dealer. There were 92 bags in the truck,
but by error the quantity was described as 90 bags—
the consignment being labelled “ more or less.” When the
truck was unloaded at Spencer-street the discrepancy
was noticed, and promptly the two excess bags were put
by. Meanwhile the dealer had become aware of his error.
He commenced a f-eurch, and the bags of grain were
finally discovered, with a lot more similarly conmiln-
deered, in a shed, fie claimed the bags, and was rudely
told to go and drop himself on the train-track. Instead,
he sooled a lawyer on to Tait, and finally the bags of oats
were dragged out by the hair. During the fuss it tran-
spired that the excesses were always “retained,” to the
owner’s loss. Yet if a poor wretch" of a porter shakes a
plum out of a broken case he gets gaol, and the pass-out
besides. Tait, however, can “ shake ” like an aspen, and
nothing happens to him except cigars.
» * • *
A gallon of palatable spirit can, it is said, bedis
tilled from a bunch of bananas. Australia has a new
liquor industry ahead of it, and the Rechabites had
better rend their beards.
T.B. : Up on the North Coast (N.S.W.)
at stock sales it is becoming the custom to supply
free grog to intending purchasers, and similarly
to non-intending purchasers—for many who come
to drink remain to buy. I was at a sale, the
other day, where the bottle was pushed around
vigorously by a rotund, loquacious individual, with a
fine brogue. I learned that lie is a professional bottle-
pusher; can command almost any price. He is booked
for sales up to the end of the year. It was whispered
that some remarkable prices had been obtained on the
Coast owing to the excellent incentive of a bottle of
whisky emptied into the keg of beer. Often after these
sales cookies find that they have bought cattle which
they didn’t want—one man recently found that he had
purchased a number of his own cows back at a price 50
per cent, in advance of that at which he had sold them
an hour and a-half previously.
“X.”: “Australian tobacco is not the thing,”
said an expert in a Sydney court case the other day. He
admitted that if labelled “ Virginian ” many who would
reject it as “ Hawkesbury ” would take it withoutdetnur.
Heavy Customs duties are the best education in such
matters. In 1823 Barron Field, on behalf of the N.S.W.
Agricultural Society, presented to Joseph Bradley, of
Windsor-road, a silver tankard as a memento of the fact
that be had grown lcwt. of negrohead tobacco, and the
society’s report added: “ Tobacco may now be con-
sidered to be fairly domesticated us a denizen of Aus-
tralia.” Yet it still has a hard fight to live. With tobacco,
it is a good deal the same as it is with literature. Aus-
tralian journals print foreign yarns because, on a trust
basis, they can get them for less per page. That prevents
the Australian from putting his best brain into litera-
ture, just as the inflow of foreign tobaccoes under an
insufficient duty prevents the local grower of leaf from
perfecting his material.
The truly honest man is more than an en-
cumbrance in an office—he is a positive danger. Some
three years ago I was working for the same firm as a young
Irishman called O’Reilly. O'Reilly was honest to the
core, and bis regard for the naked truth was absolutely
embarrassing. One day a large, hairy man from the
country blow into the warehouse with the glint of fury
in his eye and a batch of the firm’s letters in his immense
fist. He bad some complaint to make, and the chief
clerk, being very busy at the moment, called in the pain-
fully truthful O’Reilly, and instructed him to investigate
the case. O’Reilly, in a most, painstaking manner, led
his charge from point to point About the building, whilst
he burrowed amongst books and uaiperfyajptervievved the
staff, and generally untangled trie trouble. When at
last he got to the bottom of it, he found that the firm was
absolutely in the wrong. Then, igst.ead of smothering'the
affair up and hustling the countryman out of his place,
as any ordinary clerk would have done, the honest fellow
strewed the counter with the damning evidences of our
stupidity and neglect, and started to explain it all to the
customer from the backblocks. Just about that time the
chief clerk managed to free bimsylf from his other troubles
and strolled quietly along to see how O’Reilly was pla-
cating his man. He looked over the honest Hibernian’s
shoulder for a minute or so before he realised that the
firm w’as in the wrong, and that our office Washington
was carefully giving the whole show away. He immedi-
ately asked O’Reilly to stand aside, and skilfully side-
tracked the explanation to some confusing matter of
freights. O’Reilly, who couldn’t understand why thechief
had interrupted him, stood for a moment; then he broke
in with “Excuse me, Mr. Brown, that isn’t quite correct.”
The Customer shota keen glance at O’Reilly, but the chief,
without ceasing talk, waved him impatiently aside.
O’Reilly hovered round uneasily until he thought he saw
another opening, then he burst in again with the remark
that he was “sure Mr. Brown wasn’t correct.” Mr.
Brown almost burst with fury, but he managed to keep
the peace of the office by talking still louder and pushing
his minion aside. Still the undaunted Irishman couldn’t
see that the truth wasn’t required of him. He jabbed
one finger on the disastrous entry in the ledger and
waited until Mr. Brown bad arrived at the critical stage
of his lie. For the third time lie charged in. Mr. Brown
saw' that it was no use. With a quick movement he
closed the book with a slam and roared in the amazed
O’Reilly’s face, “Will you shut up!!" Then he seized
his hat, took the countryman by the arm and towed him
to the nearest pub, where he explained it all satisfac-
torily at a cost of 3s. 6d.
IF COHEN WOULD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He laid emphasis on the fact that the Australian naval
loan, as representing a noble beginning of Australia’s
part in the recognition of her obligations to the Mother
Country, must commend itself strongly, “if financial
bouses can be influenced by suefi sentiments,” be added.
—George Reid, in a London interview .
0, Cohen, hear our song of sentiment !
Withdraio thy sordid thoughts from cent, per cent.,
And, for the sake of Empire, gentle Yid,
Lend us a million quid.
If England’s great Financial Houses w'ould
Back up our aspirations as they should,
If we could influence cold £ s. d.
B.v sentiment and words of loyalty,
What joy—and cash—were ours ! Ay, what a loan
We’d gaily spend—if our true aims were known,
llow might we proudly flaunt our nationhood !
If Cohen only would.
If uncle owned a little sentiment,
And pondered less upon his much percent. ;
If blind financiers could be made to see
The high cash value of our loyalty,
How they would rush, with many offers rash,
And load us up w'ich piles and piles of cash ;
And gladly shower rich gifts upon the land,
Could they but understand !
Behold the grand beginning we have made !
When Empire called us, did we stand afraid?
Nay ; but we said, “ VVe are the proud new' land !
And with the nations shall we take our stand.
The arms to guard our shores shall be our own !
If, please, you will assist us with a loan,
We’ll teach our foes that their designs are rash !.,.
Do you advance the cash?”
Alas ! he turns a deaf ear to our claims ;
For gushing loyalty and noble aims
With Cohen count for poor security.
There is no sentiment in £ s. d..
For who would search grey London through and
through
And hope to find the Sentimental Jew ;
Then crave a loan on aspirations? Nay !
“Der bishness vouldn’t bay.”
O Cohen, if thine, heart we cannot touch,
Then, on the old pawn-ticket, say , how much 1
Thou wilt advance in cash to guard fur thee
Thine old security l
VICTORIA.
DEN.


BEALE PIANOS
S 3
Jste
o*z
k
im*.
f '?s.\ , j| \ £~
>i¥ - a
V*' v ':'
-
253?
y&SS&te
m
•Hi
mi
SK»
f'l
"r*-"» • si:■■ |t -ip
I
m
jj
*. [t,
m "*
m
!*r?vt .77t0."<
as:
»Jf |
it t’ifr'
mi
. ...<..
£
§2*,
_.-.» «. i.
till
*
'. /•* •' :
r& , 1 &ss* *iM* " ' V —» & *7*2 » '
... r- . . - \
.
■9
■•!SS
-
-*•>..' *T'. ■ L,
srik
mx*
***' v. .-.,
X.. 3?' ? - w I- *
■'*'■s&.'Ji ' : J;ii ~ V. '
awa
;
sasni'-.-w
m
TRIUMPHS OF AUSTRALIAN ART.
A long line of brilliant Australian artists, musicians, singers, painters, sculptors have won laurels in the world’s
metropolis, not only for themselves, but for the sunny land of their birth. Born under the Southern Cross,
they have placed themselves by the test of merit beside the world’s greatest successes. The above picture
displays a Beale Australian Grand Piano in the music-saloon of the magnificent new Strand Palace Hotel, the
latest and most popular hostelry of London.
This was purchased with several other Beale Pianos by the proprietors during the Franco-British Exhibition,
There, against very keen competition and even opposition, Messrs. Beale obtained the Grand Prix for tonal
qualities, besides various Gold Medals for ether points of manufacture.
Further orders have been received from the proprietors of the Strand Palace, who prefer the Beale Pianos
to all others, and the requirement is that they shall hold full philharmonic pitch.
To the accompaniment of one of the Beale Pianos the celebrated band of the Coldstream Guards plays every
day. Once more: Advance Australia!
BEALE <& CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3 D o°p s oT m 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G. P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Qoulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE . Write for Catalogue f or for Representative to call .
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years ’ Guarantee . Repairs and Tuning .
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers' Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers .


When you, or some member of your family
TaWetf* with a bilious attack, take Chamberlain’s
Electors who are still confused as to the
Fused Ministry should seek inspiration from that
wise guide and counsellor, D.C.L. Whisky. After
a short session with D.C.L. in the chair every voter
becomes possessed of a keen and vivid desire to
vote hard and often for the men most likelv to
forward a courageous progressive policy. The
amber gleam of D.C.L. is a beacon light for the
wise.*
THE
rauenMi
SHOE
M
Look for Name
on Strap.
Men who wear MARSHALL Shoes
can walk about all day long- without
feeling foot-weary.
Every pair of MARSHALL Shoes
is designed to give perfect comfort
to the wearer.
Made in half-sizes and four fittings.
Ask for the MARSHALL Style
Book.
MARSHALL SHOE FACTORY,
Richmond, Victoria.
3681
IN BANANA LAND
Bells and Hobbles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN our feet are in the stirrups,
And our hands are to the reins,
When the cities lie hehind us
And before us spread the plains,
There s a song of night and morning-
That in minor music swells,
’Tis the.jangle of the hobbles
And the jingle of the bells—
Bells and hobbles,
Hobbles and bells.
With a dull, metallic tinkle
Of the muffled hobble-chain ;
And an echo, as we canter,
Of the horse-bells in refrain,
Weaves the wizard of the Westland
Round our willing hearts his spells ;
Makes us helots of the hobbles;
Makes us vassals of the bells.
Bells and hobbles,
Hobbles and bells.
Will you miss me. miss me. Mar if.
In your suburb by the sea ?
Will you kiss me, kiss me, Katie
When we meet at old Moree.
Sing the frail, unfaithful hobbles,
And with cynic voice outswells
From the Mitchell grass the answer
Of the frail and faithless bells,
Bells and hobbles,
Hobbles and bells.
Oh Love it is a funny thing;
It makes a. man a fool.
And teaches maids a lesson that
They never learnt at school.
Thus the brazen tongue in chorus
With the iron link dispels,
In a rhythm gay, the gossip
Of the hobbles and the bells,
Bells and hobbles,
Hobbles and bells.
With a bush brunette awaiting
Who may fickle be, or fond.
And the picture yet before him
Of a plaintive city blonde,
In a cynic cacchination.
So the sinful minor swells.
Of the optimistic hobbles
And the pessimistic bells,
Bells and hobbles.
Hobbles and bells.
■But the good tobacco burneth.
And a silver saltbush gleams.
And ’tis cool beneath the shadows
By the sluggish western streams ;
And the sunlit ridges echo
From their stony citadels
To the jingle of the hobbles
And the tinkle of the bells,
Bells and hobbles,
Hobbles and bells.
Let the farmer to his tillage
All his skill and effort bring ;
Let the blacksmith in the village
Make his homely anvil ring ;
Let the sounds of labor thunder
Where the city worker dwells,
But our songs are of the Bushland k
And the hobbles and the bells,
Bells and hobbles,
Hobbles and bells.
Ami our blankets shall be spreaded
Over grasses dry and brown,
By the yellow western waters
When the sun is going down ;
By the lonely soaks and gilgas
And the clear artesian wells,
And we ’i 1 listen in the,gloaming
To the hobbles and the bells.
Bells and hobbles,
Hobbles and bells.
Oh, the bun shall rouse us early,
As he-swings into the blue ;
And we 11 boil the old black billy
While our world is wet with dew,
VV hue the working world a-hurrv
Seeks its stuffy office cells,
We’ll be slipping off the hobbles,
And be strapping up the bells,
Bells and hobbles.
Hobbles and bells.
And the breezy tracks we travel
From the sunrise to his set,
They will aid us to remember,
1 hey will help us to forget;
And the song of Night and Morning
Shall be with us as it knells
In the message of the hobbles
And the answer of the bells.
Bells and hobbles,
Hobbles and bells.
VICTORIA.
EDWIN J. BRADY.
The Skin of the Bear.
£ oh ™ b » -
~D) That this Chamber again enters its protest against
that portion of the agreement between the Common-
wealth and South Australia, which provides for the
Creek rUCtl ° n & ra ’* way * rom Port Augusta to Pine
(2) That all Federal candidates at the forthcoming- elec-
tions should be asked to pledge themselves to vote against
such a proposal if introduced in the new Parliament.
(3) That a copy of the above resolutions be sent to all
the Chambers of Commerce and local authorities in
Queensland, asking them to take action in the direction
indicated.
(4) That the linking up of our own trunk lines has be-
come more imperative than ever, and that the Queens-
land Government be urged to make this a prominent part
of their programme for the ensuing session.
Colonel Foxton, who was present, said it was quite
unnecessary for anyone to enter a further protest against
the adoption of the agreement referred to, because, so
far as he was aware, it was finally settled and dealt with.-.
It had been recognised from the day that it was rejected
b.v the Senate that the agreement was dead. —Daily
paper.
Colonel Foxton is a member of the Fused
Ministry, and may therefore be supposed to speak
with authority ; but it is a pity that, in the case
quoted above, he didn’t explain what the
authority is. The last time the transcontinental
railway question was before Parliament there was
a big majority for the straight line—that is to
there was a big majority for it in the House
of Peps, and a small majority against it in the
Senate, but even when one was deducted from
the other there was a big net majority in its
favor. The natural course would be, therefore,
9* da joint sitting, which is the method pro-
vided by the Constitution as a remedy for dead-
locks, and to let that majority decide. Minister
If oxton, however, assures the public that the big
majority for the straight line doesn’t matter in
the least, and that the minority is going to run
the show. If he is speaking from positive know-
ledge and not through his hat, then the case calls-
for a whole lot of explanation. What is th.e
exact nature of the swindle that has been done,
and what hole has the majority dropped into?
* * *
The party which advocates the long, circuitous
line that is to ramble through the eastern States
and end at some inland town—Swan Hill, possibly
—is very confident these days, and talks almost
as if its job were an accomplished fact.
In this rfespect it seems to somewhat mistake
the situation. The point that the deviationists
mostly overlook is that there will be no transcon-
tinental line either to Port Darwin or to Perth
unless South Australia is willing. It holds the
key of the position in each case. The S.A.
Parliament, at the request of the Federal Prime
Minister, declared itself agreeable to the con-
struction of both railways. The Senate rejected
the agreement, and Minister Foxton says that the
rejection is final. On present appearances that
ends the matter. I’here may, of course, Vie a
State line to Port Darwin—a line owned by S.A.
—but Queensland will have no >connections with
it unless S.A. feels like granting them, and ft
may not feel that way. All the talk about the
exact track through Queensland which the Port
Darwin railway (built with the money of
all Australia) should take, is based on for-
getfulness of the essential circumstance that
the agreement under which the Territory
was to be transferred to the Commonwealth has
been torn up, largely 1 at the instigation of Queens-
land members; consequently the Commonwealth
has nowhere to build the deviated railway to.
Minister Fuller’s recent assurance that he wili
wade in vigorously with the construction of the
western transcontinental line implies a similar
forgetfulness. The construction of that line also
depends on the consent of S.A., and the contract
by which it gave its consent was rejected in the
Senate wthout Fuller’s Government making one
serious effort to save it.
* * . ,
The eastern deviation idea was a lamentable
evidence of how the habit of grabbing at
everything may lead to the getting of nothing.
*J m ™ as conceiv ed that the transfer
of the Territory to the Commonwealth mig'ht
be made an excuse, not for opening up the
Territory for the benefit of all Australia,
but for getting a purely State line built through
Queensland and N.S.W. at the cost of the com-
munity at large. Instead of having a Federal
line from sea to sea, with a Federal port at each
end, it was proposed to have a Federal line which
wouldnt even get within sight of the sea
at its southern extremity, but would be
merely a feeder to the State railwavs and
a bringer of traffic to State-owned ports.
Part of anv transcontinental railway must be in
purely State territory; but whereas the idea of
LIKELY TO BREAK—THE RECORD.
DUST DODGER: “Do you think we will arrive
home before sundown?”
2ND DO.: “Sure of it; it's all downhill, and
some dashed thing's gone wrong. so that I
can't stop her.”
the straight line is to have as much as possible
of it on federal and as little as possible on State
land, the idea of the deviation party is to have as
little as possible of it on Federal land, while the
largest possible mileage goes to enhance the value
of State property. And amid all this cheerful
dividing of the skin of the bear it is quite for-
gotten that the bear (which is South Aus-
traha) isn t dead yet. A more diplomatic
crowd than the Queensland members would
have angled for a guarantee that when
the straight line was built branches would
be constructed from it to the Queensland border
conditional upon Queensland extending its own
lines to complete the connection.
JLben Queensland would have been joined both to
Adekide and Port Darwin, and it would have
laid the foundations for a northern transcon-
tinental line from Townsville to some of the ports
of northern Westralia. But in its haste it tried
to annex everything at once, with the result that
unless S. A. can be induced to listen to new pro-
posals, the whole transcontinental railway
business is back where it was 25 years ago.
It is high time Queensland dropped the
name Bananaland.” Southern Queensland now
grows practically no bananas at all, and Brisbane
fruit-shops are fiHed with bananas brought from
hip. The most widely-grown fruit in Queensland
to-day is the mango. It flourishes from the
Brisbane River right up to Cooktown and beyond
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 26, 1910.
My Dear Thargojiindah,—
In spite of the rain which has been descending
upon us for the past fortnight, and which didn’t
leave off even to oblige this little outing, guid wife
Macgregor and her daughter ventured forth to
the Booroodabin baths last Saturday, and watched
the championship carnival of the lady swimmers.
The association has a strict rule that mere man
shall not gaze upon the Brisbane mermaid, and,
as a rule, everybody’s brother is strictly tabu;
but, in a forgetful moment, Mrs. Jack Wiley, the
secretary, didn’t mention the fact to the vice-
regal lady, and the consequence was that
the Scarlet A.D.C. went along and had
a good time without even suspecting that
he was there simply because the committee
was too soft-hearted to turn him out into the cold,
wet world. The usual garden offerings, tied with
colored ribbons, served to keep the gentleman’s
enthusiasm in check—one can’t applaud to any
great success with a handful of vegetables spread
out on wire. The swim, although successful, was
no financial gain to the council.
As the wet evening-out had no ill-effect upon the
Macgregor ladies, they ventured upon a further
MAMMON WINS.
THE DAUBER : “Ah , don't forsake me, Louise.
Remember, people sap I have a brilliant
future ”
HIS MODEL : "No pood t' me, Edward. I prefer
the man "with a present—particularly when
it's an expensive one.”
“ weather-or-no ” jaunt, and did the Gatton Agri-
cultural College, ufider the guidance of Under-
Secretary Scriven. The cows and pigs and silos
and other strange aninials that are kept upon the
ises were explained * lucidly by Principal
Mahon.
n ,^ 1 ' Thursday the family paid a visit to the
Children s Hospital—just the usual visit, with the
usual few pleasant words en route.
The Federal election struggle goes on apace.
Kidston has been up on the Darling 1 Downs
wooing the voter to clinch “my financial agree-
ment, and send down Glassey as a true prophet
to the Senate. Home Secretary Appel had
already fled northward on the same mission,
while various followers are being told off to stump
the “ hull enclosure.” Significantly enough,
the direction of the campaign, so far as the State
Government is concerned, has been placed in the
hands of the prehistoric Barlow ; and Barlow is
and always has been opposed to Federation. Evi-
dently Barlow reckons he has his chance to scotch
Federation at last. And. as a matter of fact he
has, though some good Federalists unfortunately
can t see it vet. But they will by-and-bye, if the
255.-a-head legrope is accepted.
Meanwhile the rble of running the “whole
show” in matters of State administration (Kid.,
Appel and Denham being away) has fallen upon
the shoulders of the painfully affable Barnes
whose bill for invisible soap must be positively
ruinous.
Two engagements, nay, three, have burst upon
ns, and oneof them contains asharp. short notice of
the culminating orange blossoms. The lady in this
last case is Miss Mabel Schwabe, whose exquisite
needlework has been a feature of many an annual
display at All Hallows Convent. The bridegroom
is a happy person from the Straits Settlements,
Stephens by name. The second pair to propose a
joint undertaking are Mr. X. Seppelt, of the wine
firm, and a pretty maid from Nundah, Tilly
Evans by name. The news of No. 3is posted
from Melbourne, and has to do with Bessie
Arming, of the big eyes and the graceful carriage,
who recently went south with the avowed inten-
tion of being a nurse. Mr. Foster, a canny Scot
has other intentions, however ; and the result is a
shower of congratulations.
The Pioneer Clubbers will hold their annual
meeting in the coming weiek, and as the club has
taken on a new lease of life the gathering ought
to be cheerful. After the business is over the new
patroness. Her Excellency Macgregor, will be
asked if she will have a bun.
A whoop of satisfaction went up when the an-
nouncement was made that Mr. Patrick J. Dillon,
of the Mines Department, was to go to London
to be secretary to the Queensland Agent-General.
Patrick, a most unassuming human, has a literary
turn, with a pretty appreciation of all that’s good
in books. He has done things in manv Govern-
ment Departments, including Railways, Mines
Chief Secretary’s, and the Home Office. He goes
forth next month.
Among the Easter diversions was a camp of the
Artillery at Tambourine, at a spot chosen because
there s a convenient. mountain to stop the shells.
Before the batteries left town a detachment of the
Army Service Corps had orders to go ahead ; but
for some reason these orders were cancelled at
the eleventh hour, with the result that when the
tired horses and weary men arrived at a village
half way they found no camp, no fodder and no
tucker. This led to rage, bad temper and de-
moralisation ; and somebody’s going to be spoken
to severely about it all.
Good Friday brought its usual crop of devout
worshipper and illicit beer. One of the strange
provisions of the Licensing Act is that upon Good
k rid ay and Christmas Day thirsty ones are not
permitted to congregate on the premises, but may
be served with liquor on the footpath. The
crr.u'ala reSL \ fc ls fhat the footpath becomes a
> ed and unpleasant place, slippery with
that would bring the blush of shame to
tne cheek of a seafaring parrot.
or so the skating rinks will re-open,
when the private clubbers will don much new
costume and roll round to the strains of the Waltz
Dream and piccolo ballet.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
El wood Mead, the Victorian Government
irrigation expert, reckons that 75 per cent, of the
water from Bananaland’s artesian bores goes to
waste. He says that at Mitchell (W.Q.) the
water which is wasted from the artesian well
would irrigate a 40-acre vegetable garden. And
Mitchell is a town that doesn’t often see green
vegetables. Mead strongly condemns the prac-
tice of putting down more bores than are actually
wanted, and points to the relics of once-
/£ U o »?g ° r;l T e S roves ’ n Southern California
(U.S.A.) as the result of this practice. He
advises the Queensland Government to pass
legislationto deal with the matter on the lines of
theN.S.W. Act of 1906.
w : , Accordin g fco Dr- Taylor,
Health Officer for Brisbane, some queer stuff was
supplied under the name of water hy the
lately-defunct Brisbane Board of Water-
works. The Mount Crosby article, be-
sides being so discolored in wet weather
by solids held in suspense as to be unfit
for household use, is so hard that it
causes indigestion and rheumatism. Dr.
Taylor estimates that its
which could, he says, be remedied by
the use of subsidence tanks and the
addition of lime, is responsible for the
unnecessary expenditure on soap of
£20.000 per annum by the people of
Brisbane. The Enoggera fluid, while
soft, is impure and stinks aloud. The
new Water and Sewerage Board hasn't
arrived a bit too soon. An occasionally-
discolored, disease-causing, germ-dissem-
inating, stink-distributing water supply,
and an awful pan sanitary system aren’t
things which a city of nearly 140,000
people ought to have about it—unless,
of course, that city is a Federal capital,
which has to be satisfied with what the
State Frighters are prepared to give it.
A. J. Cotton, a. Queensland squatter,
recently had a motor-car built to his own design
in Glasgow. It is specially fitted for travelling in
rough wooded country. A demonstration of its
capabilities was given the other day in a rocky
gorge at Paddington (Brisbane), and the car did
everything that was asked of it. It cantered
down the side of the gully without any trouble,
and to enable it to come up, a steel hawser,
attached to a windlass in front of the radiator,
was made fast to a post at the top, and
the vehicle hauled in the slack with the intelli-
gence of a human being and dragged itself up. It
rescues itself from bogs, and tows itself through
muddy creeks and patches of sand in the same
fashion. Among its fittings is an anchor, which
is planted ahead of it when aid is needed and
there is no. tree to tie the rope to. The machine
is guaranteed to work in 3ft. of water, and as a
final item of usefulness it can be converted into a
stationary engine and used to drive pumps and
sundries.
“Itan”: One authority declares that
Bananaland*s plot of prickly pear represents the
colossal total of 12,000,000 acres. The Lands
Department has been saying for the past seven or
eight years that it had 4,000,000 acres on hand,
but it forgot that all the time the prickly locust
was eating up the alleged asset. If the Curse is
not faced squarely, it will be 25,000,000 acres in
extent in another 10 years. Landowner Wein-
holt expressed the opinion in the Assembly lately
that the evil thing would yet monopolise the
whole of Central and Southern Queensland. If
the entire adult male population started out with
tools to destroy it, the process would take three
or four years. Tbe only practicable plan is to
insist on clean country being kept clean, and to
assail the affected areas by degrees.


a
i
Waterproof Coats, Cycle Capes,
Goloshes and
Foot Holds, Rubber Boots.
Write Us for Prices. Lowest In the Commonwealth.
NOVELTY RUBBER CO.
250 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne (10 doors past G.P.0.)-
J
Sr
O
Your Morning: Shave
would take half the time it does now with a PLUM
Razor. It just skims over the chin quickly, gently,
no pulling—and the result is grand. We guarantee
and keep the blade in working order for two years
free of charge. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
10/6
PRICE
post free
any-
where
Single Razor tn Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other Good Kinds, from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
in Australasia.
We Crind and
Set Razors,
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
£looQjlsl£looo
OOS'y
arnvA
FIRST
GREAT PRIZE
VALUE
£.500
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON,
Of Fidht Months for Turn Note. —The Committee, having’ paid full value for the
® 114 IWU- work of art, is prepared to find a purchaser for same
at the advertised amount if the winner so desires ; also for the Second and Third Prizes.
SECOND : Value £lOO ; THIRD : Value £5O; and 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
EIGHT HOURS’ GREAT ART UNION.
64th Year—Oldest and Most Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals
Popular—s4th Year. and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning numbers will be
posted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 29th April, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the representative, Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union,
22 for £l, 11 for lOs., or Is. EACH.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing:, 17th May, 1910.
Lest You Forget, Buy TO-DAY.
THEO. \V. HEIDE, Representative,
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
The Number One Horse Clipper
a
SSL
■suss&agss
In our last issue we gave a design of our
“ Number One ” Horse Clipper; together
with some information respecting it;
To-day we illustrate' the simplicity of
using it.
Do you know that that big horse can be
clipped in 30 minutes ?
Everybody is aware that clipping im-
proves a horse’s health, prolongs his life,
and increases his value.
Our “ little machine that does big work”
has steadily grown in popularity through-
out the length and breadth of Australia, and
we say with all truth no horse-owner can
afford to be without one. Send for booklet.
SOLE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES
and QUEENSLAND
Holdsworth, Macpherson c«
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISCOE & CO., LTD,, Melbourne.
GEO« P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., LTD., Adelaide & Perth.
Zaw Points
£* /nuentors
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning: the obtaining: of Patents,
and the best means of keeping: the
titles thereof inviolate during: the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting - it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report
and all communications treated strictly confidential.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
•. *
*' AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWE.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
2s • Posted.
(Awl. 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
j Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
I repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in hewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight— 1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d,, set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Harness & Boot Mending Made Easy.
The MARVEL LEATHER STITCHER
Enables anyone to do
LOCK STITCHING and
CHAIN STITCHING
Equal to Machine Work
double-thread
HAND STITCHING
The G.qod Old
Cobbler’s Way.
Takes 1 up to
Nine-Cord Waxed
Thread, or even
Brass or Copper Wire
Complete fqrls. 6d.
or with Special
Awl for Collar
Work 2s. 6d., posted
to any address.
p
MARTEL STITCHER is a patented invention that
M simplifies the sewing of leather,' rubber, canyas and
similar heavy materials. The engraving shows three
ways in which it is valuable to farmer* aim horse
owners. You can repair a horse collar with it better than
most saddlers. The Stitcher will sew a rip under the hames
with heavy nine-cord waxed thread wire, ami make a
secure job with a perfect lock-stitch, or with a chain-stitch as
firm as rivets. You can sew on a strap, taking the stitches
right through tbs collar, and you can, in a coupie of minutes,
form a hollow to ease a sore shoulder. A patch or covering
piece can be stitched on in any position ; in fact, a collar can
be completely re-covered by anyone., The operation is so
simple that FAT LURK 18 IMPOSSIBLE. The Stitcher is
equally useful for boot, saddle and harness repair*. Rivets
are good as a make-shift, but they are no use for collars,ar.fi
stitching is preferable for most mends. The Marvel makts
double-thread hand-sewing, the real tradesman’s stitch, so
easy that anyone can re-sole a welted boot, repair a burst
upper, or mend a rip in a saddle or harness, with light or
heavy thread, or with brass or copper wire. Full printed
directions are supplied, and each Marvel Stitcher is sent out
threaded up ready for use, with a good serviceable awl. The
price is only 1/6, including postage to any address. For collar
sewing a special awl is needed, that makes the price of the
complete outfit 2/6. Fine work, like boot uppers, can be sewn
with a stout Stitcher, hut a neater job is made with a light
Stitcher. If you order both fine and stout Stitches you may
have the two for 2/6. or with the Special Collar Awl for 3/6,
carriage paid. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MANUFACTURING! CO.,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
WIRTH EROS.’
The GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING. AT 8.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
CIRCUS.
To be Seen at Every Performance.
DATA’S
The Memory Marvel.
THE FRANTZ FAMILY,
Phenomenal Societ.v Acrobats.
THE JANDASCHEWSKYS,
Spanish Bull Fighters.
THE DO RA MI, Musical Clowns.
THE HEALYS,
The Brilliant Barrel Junipers.
NEW FACES. NEW ACTS. NEW ANIMALS.
Plan at Paling’s. 1 Prices as Usual.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON
EVERY EVENING at 7.45 SHARP.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ANNUAL
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC EXTRAVAGANZA
ALADDIN.
PLAYED BY A BRILLIANTLY CLEVER COMPANY
OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS, DANCERS and
PANTOMIMISTS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
Theatre royal. Sydney.
Lessee & Manager : .L C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
GRAND OPERA IN ENGLISH, in Three Acts,
MADAM BUTTERFLY.
First Appearance in Australia of BEL SOREL.
First Appearance in Grand Opera of AMY CASTLES.
GRAND OPERA, CHORUS and ORCHESTRA, under
the direction of SIGNOR ROBERTO HAZON.
Prices—7/6 to 1/- Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE <te CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
FOR A LIMITED NUMBER OF NIGHTS ONLY,
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
in a Magnificent Production of Shakespeare’s Comedy,
AS YOU LIKE IT.
Prices—6s., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Lessee: Allan Hamilton.
Direction of ALLAN HAMILTON and MAX MAXWELL.
TO-NIQHT and EVERY EVENING.
ALLAN HAMILTON & MAX MAXWELL'S
DRAMATIC COMPANY,
GRAND PRODUCTION OF THE FAMOUS DRAMA,
WOMAN AND WINE
(By Arrangement with Bland Holt).
s
YDNEY G L A C I A R I
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST’.
U M.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD."
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d,'ls, Is 6d, & 2s.
HE LYCEUM
EVERY EYENING AT S.
MAT! NECS-WEDNESDAYS. SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 50.
C PENCER'SHTeaTRBCOPE <?.
>2 PICTURES
/IRE SUPERIOR, ro /ILL OT/fE/ZS
Popular Prices —»- Plaw at PAHNoa.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards,
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
THE ORIGINAL and ONLY HOUDINI, Handcuff King-.
WILLE BROTHERS, Acrobatic Artists.
BROWN and ROBINSON. BERT LINDSAY.
Miss LILLIE LANGTRY. HILDA LANE.
MR. ALLAN SHAW. MR. JAMES HINCHY.
MR. WILL WHITE.
TED KALMAN.
Mr. TOM DAWSON.
PRICES —3s. and Is.
MISS MAY LEWIS.
DOROTHY FORBES.
Miss OLGA GREY.
Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MDLLE. DE DIO, The Divine and Incomparable Dancer.
JOHNNY GILMORE, Quaint Comedian.
GRAHAM & DENT, Popular Comedy Artists.
HAPPY TOM PARKER, Comedian and Dancer.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS. IRVING SAYLES.
THE DONNELLEYS, Specialty Dancers.
THE HARMONIOUS HUXHAMS.
Plan at Allan's, PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOft^NE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager—William Andkrsok.
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA.
A BEAUTIFUL STORY OF A MOTHER’S LOVE.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S LATEST
DRAMATIC PURCHASE,
A THIEP IN THE NIGHT.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* * Lessee and Manager: J; C. Williamson'.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
RETURN OF J. C. WILLIAMSON’S POPULAR
ORGANISATION,
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE COUNTRY GIRL
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN AUSTRALIA OF
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL’S
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Fantastical Musical Play, in Three Acts,
THE ARCADIANS.
Prices—ss., 35., Is. 6d.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Direction of J. C. Williamson.
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION.
Australia’s Idql, NELLIE STEWART,
in J. M. Barrie’s Greatest Cornedv,
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
The Reigriing Success of England and America.
Box Plan for First Six Nights at Allan’s.
Prices —55., 35., is.
IRTHS OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
W
Matinees -Wednesdays Saturdays and Holidays at 2.50
CPENCER’SIfiEATRESCOPE <?
J PICTURES
-a PRE SUPERIOR TO PLL OTHERS. m>
Popular Prices ~t- Plats as Usual..*»
LACIARIUM,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT. ,
J.fc'N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
U# EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
W " THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES THE^ S I LL
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices—l/6, I/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C.I/-
TPI E JESTERS,
“ARCADIA,” ST. KILDA ESPLANADE
(OPPOSITE FIGURE 8),
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME ON MONDAYS.
PRICES—Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. .Plan at Glen’s and
Haber’s, St. Kilda. Day Sales at Ronald’s Central,
London has just had one of those big
dramatic law suits which from time to time lift
the lid for an instant off the pot of Sheol that lies
close under the modern Babylon. Nominally, it
was a libel case, Manners-Sutton (son and heir of
Lord Canterbury) against Crosland (author of
. The Unspeakable Scot ”), who had written
vitriolic things in the Academy about Sutton.
Heally, it was a duel between Sutton and Lord
Alfred Douglas, editor of the Academy. The two
men, who had once been in all each other’s secrets,
had quarrelled. So expensive K.C.’s were engaged
to sling mud, and the court was filled with
a fashionable mob every day for a week. • The
most dramatic moment came when Douglas was
cross-examined as to his old friendship with
Oscar Wilde. Yes, he said, he had written
threatening to shoot his own father (the Marquis
5V ueer,s berry); but he was young and foolish in
those days—he is only just 40 now. As for Wilde,
there was nothing to be ashamed of in their
friendship.
When he left prison he came to me a broken, dying
man, and said, “ You are the only decent friend I have
left to me. If you leave me, I shall go to Hell headlong.
Are you going to turn your back on me?” I did not
turn my back on him, and I am not ashamed of it. I
stayed with him until he died, and I paid his funeral
expenses—and my life has been made a Hell on earth for
years because I did it.
Then the limelight was turned on Sutton, who
was alleged to have lately paid £lOOO to the father
ot a girl of 14 to hush things up. So a formal
verdict was given for Crosland.
Even little Ikey is an Incumbrance now-
a days, and is warned by public advertisement —
(1) to prevent himself being born, (2) to die, (3) to
keep dead. There are no conditions as to how he
is to do any of these things. He can please him-
self, but if son Ikey isn’t offered up as a sacrifice
father Jacob loses his job.
QIR MOSES MONTEFIORE JEWISH HOME,
471 Dowling-street, Sydney.
The Board of Management invite applications for
the Position of MATRON (of the Jewish persuasion)
of this Institution. Preference will be given to a
Married Couple without family. Particulars from
the Honorary Secretary, to whom applications must
be addressed not later than April 15, 1910.
B. D. ROTHBURY, Hon. Secretary.
That is the copy of an advertisement from the
Sydney Teuegraph (19/3/’10), and probably is the
first intimation that Father Abraham’s ad vice to
the Chosen no longer finds favor with Moses.
Now that the last cheer has fallen back
from the welkin and the final champagne cork
drifted out to sea in celebration of the inaugura-
tion of the P. & O. service to Auckland (M.L.),
the Dominion is counting up just where it stands
in regard to the P. &O. nigger. Hitherto the
inter-State service has been in the hands of the
Union Steamship Co. and the Huddart Parker
Proprietary, both of them working under the con-
ditions of the M.L, Arbitration Court. The P.
& O. Company, being registered outside the Do-
minion, is under no obligation to pay the ruling
wage, and, so far, has not even hinted that it pro-
poses to increase the pay of its crews (seamen
£4 fis. a month, and firemen £1 45.); in fact,
its 1 silence on the point is equivalent to
thai of a tombstone at the bottom of a
well. Some time ago the Melbourne Argus
pointed out that the employment of niggers
enabled the P. and O. people to pay their fire-
men 85 per cent, less than the Australian com-
panies. The difference would be even greater in
regard to the M.L. coastal services, for, whereas
on the Australian coast white firemen are paid
£8 10s. a month, on the M.L. coast the pay is £9.
So M.L. is wondering whether it wouldn’t
have been better to have left the champagne on
the ice while it sooled the P. and O. nigger off
the premises and squirted a mud-geyser over his
flying turban.
At a recent big religious convention held
at Pittsburg (U.S.A.) Parson D. A. Ewers tuned
the good old timbrel as follows :
I represent Australia, the land of almost perpetual
sunshine, the land of gold and silver, of wheat and wool,
of flowers and fruit; the land where four and a half mil-
lions of people occupy a territory as large as that of the
United States; the land from which colored races and
Asiatics are excluded, where eight hours is a legalised
day’s labor, where the stores clqse at six, and where every
employee enjoys his weekly half-holiday ; the land where
men and women above 65 receive a weekly pension of two
and a half dollars for life, and where every woman has
the political suffrage. This is the country where Tam-
many rings and combines and trusts are unknown, and
where the railroads and telegraphs and telephones belong
to the people and not to companies ; the country where
wealth is more equally distributed than in any other land,
and where, consequently, there are proportionately fewer
paupers and fewer millionaires. I represent what may
well be called God’s own country, because its soil has
never been stained with the bloodshed of war; the land
of peace and plenty, of progress and prosperity, of liberty
and loyalty.
No decayed fish about that. Three cheers —300
cheers, in fact—for Parson Ewers.


;v u Vcura
. % y
RESTAND
PEACE
Fall upon distracted
households when
Cuticura enters.
All that the fondest of
mothers desires for the
alleviation of her skin-
tortured and disfigured
infant is to be found in
warm baths with
CUTICURA
SOAP
And gentle anointings
with Cuticura Ointment.
Cuticiir«i»
lib;
RAftHET
tAX
9
BA
234 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
AND ALL STATES
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR. ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATiNE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE So'd by All Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
CONSTIPATION
If you have ever been to a doctor,
because you felt ill all over, the
chances are a hundred to one that he
asked you if your bowels were right.
Why ? Because constipation is a
common sign of indigestion which
makes people feel ill like that. When
your bowels fail to expel the waste,
impurities are soon drawn into your
system, to lower your vitality, make
you dull, heavy, and right down ill.
You cannot remove the effects
of constipation without removing
the cause —
INDIGESTION!
Mother Seigel’s Syrup removes
both the cause and the effects of
constipation. This standard remedy
for all digestive disorders is made of
herbal extracts which gently stimu-
late the liver and bowels to natural
activity ; and it helps your stomach,
too. Thus it makes food nourish
you, clears your system without
purging you, and keeps you in health
and strength. If you have indigestion,
constipation, biliousness or headaches,
take Mother Seigel's Syrup daily, after
meals. It will surely, swiftly cure you.
CURED BY—MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP ,
be despondent if you have
failed to obtain relief with
mineral drutrs, patent nos-
trums, eleetric belts, etc.
Try our Herbal Remedies —
Nature’s own cure. They will
soon convince the most sceptical. All consultations
are free. Call or write. We can make you strong,
healthy and vigorous.
AMERICAN HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
DON’T
WHY STAY
FAT?
v
Ten thousand Fat Women
have been restored to
normal. —So may you.
“FATCURE ”
is a harmless and pleasant cure for Obesity.
In average cases it reduces by about 5 lbs.
per week, and the excess fat once removed
does not come back. Send 2d. stamp for
FREE TRIAL Sample and Free Book,
which explains how “ FATCURE ” cures.
Watworth Co., Suite ,1,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
LEEMING’S
FOR STYLE
IN
SHOES.
PRICES
18/6 8 22/6.
The above is (he very newest fashion in Men's
Stioes for Summer Wear.
In Tan or Black. Prices 18/6 and 22/6.
SAMPLE LINE OF LADIES’ IMPORTED SHOES,
with Wiirteniberjr Heels, in seven sizes, either
B 1 ink or Tan. Very special value. Price 7/6.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.” All that is
newest in footwear is priced in it.
LEE MING’S Boot Stores,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne : 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran ; 1 and 3 Errol St., North Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke St., Melbourne. [1
171LECT0RS OF QUEENSLAND! You
Li are earnestly requested to record your
votes for Messrs. GIVENS. STEWART and
TURLEY for the Senate. Lewis-McDonald,
agent, Brisbane.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THAT HAVE CAUGHT ONI
They're books every Australian should
read.
They’re typical Australian from cover
to cover—full of intense interest from
start to finish. They’re written,
printed and illustrated in Australia-
yon ought to read them —they’re pub-
lished in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E. Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/0;
postage sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure, by “ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/0;
postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection, by “Steele Rudd";
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
From Selection to City, by “Steele Rudd”;
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
For Life, bv “Steele Rudd”; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/0 ;
postage fid.
Settler and Savage, by Chas. De Boos; price,
cloth, 1/-; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/; postage 3d.
On the Fringe of the Never-Never, by H. j{.
Bloxham ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James Green ; price,,paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by C. D. Websdale; price, cloth, 1/. ;
postage 3d. And other equa | (y good
books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
All Branches
and
Book-
sellers.
I
TAILOR-MADE
COSTUMES.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
have an excellent range of patterns of all
kinds of cloths suitable for Ladies’ Garments,
including pure Indigo Serges, Woolly Bannock"
burns, West of England and Scotch Tweeds,
newest designs and shades in striped and
plain Faced Cloths, and also Cloths of
Australian manufacture.
Mr. Murphy, the cutter, has a wide reputa-
tion for his success in ladies’ work, and gives
every customer his personal attention and
advice.
Ladies’ Tailoring in all its Branches.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
HORRIbS I
iree Witches
> CIGARETTES
nfl!
10
for
Hade
tondon
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per TOO, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
The Crouching Monkey.
“ Gideon ” lias a look at the war weather :
Despite the soft word of diplomacy that turneth astray
the public mind, there is much anxiety in well-informed
circles in,the Land of the Fried Nigger as to the inten-
tions of the Japs. The Monkey menace in the Pacific is
causing the United States, or a considerable portion of
it, to think hard —far harder than the reckless Aus-
tralian, who has a heap more reason for it, Deakin-Cook
and the Dreadnought dailies notwithstanding. U.S.
students of national outbursts are convinced that the
next row will not be in the North Sea, hut in the Pacific,
and, with the Yankee battle-fleet on the Atlantic coast,
there is considerable agitation on the Pacific side of Uncle
Sam's dominions. Sam knows very well that when his
battle-fleet made its half-round-the-world trip recently it
was compelled to employ foreign ships to carry its coal,
and was completely at the mercy of those vessels every
mile of the way. If trouble had arisen, and the coal
carriers had departed, Sam’s white fleet would have been
left swinging in the tide, unable to get far one way or the
ether.
Congressman Humphrey, in introducing the Adminis-
tration Ship Subsidy Bill to the Congress at Washington
last month, pointed out that there was but one U.S,
vessel engaged exclusively in the foreign trade, and that
18 years of experience had demonstrated that the law of
1891, which aided U.S. shipping by mail contracts, would
not secure vessels to run on the long voyages to South
America and across the Pacific. The proposal of the new
Bill is, therefore, that the vessels that come under its
provisions, rebates, and subsidies, must be built with a
view to their use in time of war. They must he con-
structed so that they can carry four or more effective
(not less than Gin. calibre) guns ; they must be at all
times at the demand of the Government; must carry
U.S. boys, and train them in seamanship; and must be
officered by U.S. citizens. The unfortunate posi-
tion of the U.S. was expl ,ined by Humphrey
in a sentence when he said that last year the
dues paid by American vessels in the trans-oceanic trade
amounted to Jess than 4 per cent, of the total. He
reckoned that in case of war 250 vessels would be needed
for transports for the use of the navv, whereas there were
not 25 under the flag fit for the service.
“1 do expect war with Jap in,” declared Humiiprky.
“Japan has 260 vessels available to carrv troops. The
United States has perhaps 10. Japan could carry 200,000
soldiers at one time; the Uniien States not more than
10,000. Japan has built 60 vessels suitable for transport
purposes, the United States not one. Japan could put
100,000 men in Hawaii, and 260,000 in the Philippines in less
than 30 days. The United States could not place 50,000
in the Philippines in the next two years, even in time of
peace, if it were compelled to employ American ships, as
would be the case in time of war. Japan could reach the
Pacific coast of this country at least two months quicker
than our battleship fleet could get from the Atlantic to
the Pacific, even if our fleet were fully supported with the
best colliers.”
The Monkey probably knows even better than the
Yankee how things stand, and he was cocksure of his
position when, some little time back, he demanded, and
ivas promptly granted, the rights to send his children to
the U.S. public schools and to himself reside in other
than assigned quarters in the cities. Neither of those
privileges is enjoyed by American citizens in Japan.
The row in the Pacific is sure, and the Jap will be one
side of the disturbance. If Australia lias any luck the
U.S. will he the other side. If it has no luck it will be the
other side itself, and the vessels that Britain will be able
to spare after reserving enough to make its own shores
absolutely safe against Germany will probably amount to
about a row of pins—one row.
The British Local Government Board report for
1908-9 is very pessimistic in the section dealing
with adulteration of food. Although inspection
is keener than ever before, the practice of using
injurious preservatives has assumed such frightful
proportions that the Law seems incapable of
dealing with it. Hardly one solitary article of
diet is free. Butter, margarine, cream, ham,
Eicon, sausages, fish and such-like, are charged
with boric acid ; jams, preserves and conserves
reek with salicylic acid ; potted meats, beer,
sauces and temperance drinks are heavily
charged with injurious substances to keep them
“good.” All these preservatives destroy the
digestion. Milk, which is the food of the young,
suffers most of all. It is charged with formalin,
to keep it from going sour, or rather to prevent
it showing the outward and visible signs of having
gone sour, and is moreover subjected to a process
of “ toning,” which is very disastrous. “Toning”
consistsof mixingall themilk together and getting
the proportion of the cream it contains. All the
surplus above the requirements of the law is then
carefully extracted, and the weakened cow-juice
is charged with formalin to keep it fresh, and
then distributed to the suffering public. Ob-
viously the day is approaching when the trade in
food stuffs will ,be taken away from Private
Enterprise and vested in a Health Department.
Once the community becomes convinced that it
is impossible to make the food-vendor decent and
human, it will take a plunge and wipe the brute
out of existence altogether.
“ Bklak ” writes :
It is not only in connection with private subdivisions
(is mentioned by “ Phil Mice,” B. 3/3/*I0) that N.S.W. is
making a mess of the closer-settlement business. The
policy of the Deform Government has resulted in the
setting-up of a new form of “dummying,” which pro-
mises to equal that under which the best areas of the
State were secured in the past by the enterprising mono-
polist. Wherever an estate within convenient distance
of a town is resumed for closer settlement, numbers of
citizens make a grab at the holdings, and often get them,
without having the slightest intention of residing on or
Working the land. Each of these new landowners then
'puts on a man to run, or loaf upon, his place, and sits
back in peace. The man isn't called a dummy, but a
“ deputy;” The employers of deputies are mostly well-
to-do business men—agents, grocers, hotelkeepers, re-
tired squatters and so on. Some of them acquire the
land for leasing, some for farming on shares, some for
grazing, but all with the ultimate object of securing the
speculative rise in value—if they can succeed in bam-
boozling the Department. And' this, with a feeble
Minister in power, is almost as ea«v as working
the Fiji confidence . game on a Hayseed of weak
intellect. Repeatedly the local Boards—which have
inside knowledge and are be-t able to determine
the amount of bona fldes which applicants have
concealed about their clothes—have recommended re-
fusals, only to have their findings calmly set aside by the
Minister, presumably on the representations of a'land
agent or some other interested party. One of these
“ settlers” up my nay held a block for two years, and
did not spend a shilling of money or labor on it. There
was fairly solid evidence that he was making more than
his rent by taking stock in for grazing. In the meantime
other farmers who would have made good use of the
block were kept out of it. At the end of two years—
during which an adjoining area held by a genuine farmer
was returning from £l5OO to £2OOO per annum—the local
Board put its square Australian foot on the chest of the
holder, declared that there was not a redeeming feature
in the case, and recommended the forfeiture of the land.
The Minister set aside the recommendation. S >me of the
“deputies” wbieh the intelligent. LandsDepartmentallows
to fulfil the residential conditions for these city selectors
are interesting cusses. One was recently found to be 75
years of age. For helping along the noble cause of bona-fide
settlement, as conceived by the Wade Ministry, he was
accorded ss. per week and the privilege of catching his
own rabbits. In another case the deputy was 70 years
of age. This foolishness can be seen in full blast in
Riverina. There decent agricultural land can be let at
from 10s. to 12s. per acre. As a result of the Wade
policy, town residents have started to take up blocks as a.
speculation, whereby they keep out good farmers, rake in
£2OO a year or more from a tenant, and patriotically
hand over to the State an annual instalment of about
£lOO.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE. CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
THE BRAKE ON YOUR BICYCLE
sno less important than the Free Wheel. The perfection of both
Brake and Free Wheel will be obtained if you decide upon having
your bicycle fitted with the latest improved
Eadie Coaster Hub.
The demand for these Hubs is simply enormous and has greatly increased
since they have been made at the famous B.S.A. Works. The hadie
Coaster Hub is now practically perfect, it can be fitted to any
bicycle by any dealer at short notice, and no bicycle can be considered
fully equipped for the road that is not fitted with this device.
For absolute luxury the cyclist can go one better by having
his bicycle fitted with the
Eadie Two-speed Coaster.
This is the only combination of two speeds, free wheel and brake in
one hub, that has satisfactorily passed the test of time. Write for a
B.S.A. Handbook and read all about these goods and where they
are made. Post free from —
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
f
M?,
PALMER TYRE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
GROOVES.
The Reason Why a
The Palmer Cord Tyres
take precedence with
experienced motorists.
Absence of internal friction makes them the
coolest running tyre.
They increase the speed at a lower con-
sumption of petrol.
They raise less dust—have greater wearing
powers than other tyres.
Their immunity from side slip make them a
• safe and gilt-edge tyre investment.
PRICE LIST FREE.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Zercho S Correspondence College,
MELBOURNE.
The Most Up-to-date Systems of TUITION BY POST
IN VICTORIA are obtainable only at this College.
Coaching for all University, Public Service (State and Commonwealth), Local
Government, Sanitary Inspectors', and all Public Examinations.
Tuition in Shorthand, Typewriting, Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Electrical and
Steam Engineering, or any Educational Subject.
Write to-day for Schedule of Fees, and mention subject in which you are interested.
The Champion Value House for Single-Barrel Guns.
No one in Australia can touch us in Single-Barrel Gun Value, as the following- will show :
“H. & R.,” 20/-; “H. & R.,” Automatic Ejector, 22/6; “Remington,” 36/-; “ Davenport,” 45/-;
"Davenport Hammerless,” 70/- Postage—Victoria, 2/9 ; other States, 5/2.
All the above, as well as many other Guns, are fully described in our Free Catalogue.
Get one to-day, and save hard cash.
ALCOCK & PIERCE PROPY. LTD.,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ANDREW McGEE =====
The amateur shaver—the man who cannot manage a close shave with the
ordinary razor—will appreciate the Gillette, or the Auto-Strop Safety
Razor. You can shave yourself as close as you like—as often as you like
with either without fear of gashing the flesh.
The Gillette Safety Razor, with “ New Process” Blades, 22/6 each complete.
The Auto-Strop Safety Razor, 25/-
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST AND GENTLEMEN’S HAIRDRESSER,
5 and 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, corner Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Saloon open all day Wednesday.
n
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “PE LAITTE”
AIR-CAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government aM by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.*
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN $ CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
sL
UNERRINGLY
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. 17, except fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
ACCURATE
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Teleseope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[5
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in allot the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing:
Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland —Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
"RICHARDSON-
CHICAGO
0 s
■3*
£1
Si
IB n€
I
asr
i
MIGHTIER
THAN
THE SWORD
Something Unique in Pens!
BALL-POINTED PENS neither stick, spurt
nor splutter, and they are so delightfully
easy to write with.
Get a fid. Sample Box ftom your stationer,
and adopt the style which suits your hand.
ipp- They write ;'ust lil e ® Cold Nib.
OROTSTOtf & GLASS
LONDON
CINEMATOGRAPH SUPPLIES.
We are Australia’s Leading Supply House.
HALF A MILLION FEET OF
FILMS ALWAYS ON HAND.
All specially selected subjects—many local-
many just arrived —all in good condition —oy
all the famous makers, including
PATHE FRERE FILMS
from 2d. per foot.
In addition, we sell and hire machines, dupli-
cate parts, accessories, etc., and have com-
petent operators always ready for emergencies.
t REPAIR WORK NEATLY and ACCURATELY
FINISHED.
ffi®
s» v
ffl
Q>
O
OS
0)Q
Pathe, Edison and Beard’s Projectors of the Latest Types. - *!
JERDAN’S
“ The Leading Cinematograph
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Specialists,”
393 GEORGE STREET, ..St, SYDNEY.


Shipping;*
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINK STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mrmioornr Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRAL IA E N GLAN D.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks:
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSSi MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £508,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 73,500 0 0
£744.521 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Australian Bank of
Commerce Limited
Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.
Authorised Capital—£2,ooo,ooo.
Head Office: George and King Streets, Sydney.
London Office—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS:—PhiIip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ;
Chas. H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ;
Hon. Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland
H. Ducker, Esq. ; Geo. J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
The Bank has now taken over the active business of.
THE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK LIMITED,
and will transact all usual Banking business.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies in all the principal parts of the world.
Ist January, 1910. A. P. Stewart, General Manager,
THE
Metropolitan Accident,
Fire and General Insurance Co., Ltd.
Directors:
R. M. PHILLIPS. Esq., J.P. (Chairman).
Da. VICTOR E. LUDLOW.
CLAUDE MANNING, Esq.
J. J. ALLEN, Esq.
Beresford Chambers, Castiereagh St., Sydney.
Metropolitan Building's, Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Salisbury Buildings, Queen St., Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED
'J'HE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPAN/ LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortsraires) -• £36.000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smitli. Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman : Hun. .7. M. Pratt; Alex-
ander M'Cracken ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
anaei JAMKg BORROW MAN, Man a tret.
FUEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
N ord D eutscher Ivloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
ic Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cui-ine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO..
Tel. 695. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)aui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £‘2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.998
GRANTS DRAFTS
anti Ireland, and other plaoes.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, .Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, ICsq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Lid.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Shipping;.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
April 16.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
Hay 11
AFRIC, SUEVIO and PERSIC to follow •
Only One Class of Accommodation*
FARES —Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€T
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth , and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Steamer. | Tons. | Commander. | Leave Sydney.
•Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest Standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
NOLIPAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports).
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
ANP
THE ISLANDS.
porta), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining' a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORp STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to ,£25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands. ' '
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT. —CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS,
bull particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
DIRECTORS :
£2,500,000
£1,650,000
£2,500,000
£6,650,000
The Hon. O. K. Maclvellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Norniand MacLaurin, Ivt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reg-inald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors : William Harrington Palmer, Esq. • Stiepheord. EdrecUff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-64- Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand arid Fiji, and Agents and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J- RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
in
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
MM
hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Hotels, &c.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Church Hill,
SYDNEY.
The coolest and most comfortable Hotel In
the City. Every modern convenience. Ex=
cellent cuisine and service. Tariff cards on
application to the Manager.
TEL. 860 CENTRAL.
/7l\
n
KYLOE COPPER MINES
NO LIABILITY.
j\J OTICE is hereby given that a Dividend at the rate of
1 N 10 per cent, per annum has been declared on the
Preference Shares in the above Company, payable on
April 12, 1910; also an Interim Dividend (First of
Sixpence) payable same date on the whole of the Shares
(Preference and Ordinary) of the Company.
Transfer Books will close from April 1 to April 14, both
days inclusive.
' By order of the Board,
R. D. HARTWELL, Secretary.
Castlereagh House, Sydney, March 4,1910.
NOTE. —Shareholders who have not yet surrendered
Share Certificates in the old (Adelaide) Company in
exchange for those of the present Company are requested
to do so without further delay.
Shipping:*
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quaansiand Ports*
FOR .MELBOURNE. A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE !
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports, |
GERALDTON (VV.A.) -
S.S. Yongala, April 9.
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), May 4, calling-
at all N.-West Ports to
Wyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOW ,NS VI BEE
And Ports North to Olirn
S.S. Innamineka, April 2.
S.S. Gran tala, April 9.
S.S. Yonjrala, April 16.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALE-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FTJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
t Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.
5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines#
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11,400 Tons. P. Davies, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 2nd April
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - 9th April
~ „ ~ MELBOURNE - 12th April
~ „ ~ HOBART - - 19th April
■ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - - 23rd April
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
WelHighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged^
FARES— .Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and / „. n
LIVERPOOL f 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Don’t give the FLIES a chance to
SPREAD GERMS,
but use
One small tin is sufficient to kill
1,000,000 flies. TRY IT.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly..
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
ON THE HOP” —Cheap Edition Now On
Sale— 2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.


“ Pukefcapu’s” official yarn :
I spent some years in a M.L. office of births, deaths
and marriages, and have seen hundreds of couples hitched
up by the Registrar. I used to get a grim sort of humor
out of watching applicants for a marriage license. When
they sneaked inside the door they always gave a furtive
glance round to see if any other person was present; and,
if there was, the furtive ones would holt outside again or
keep i'p fhe rear until a clear field offered. On the rare
occasions whep jffiey looked the clerk or Registrar in the
face }t vyas wjth a grotesque leer. They shuffled their
feet ; they |ic)tpd dry lips ; gome had foam at the corners
of thejr mouths ; and all had the drqavji face of the
hunted animal. Questioned as to their business
sonye Irlurfed out “A marriage license!” defiantly.
Others half whispered, “ Would you mind giving me
a marriage license ?” as if they were asking agaolerif he’d
mind leaving the quod door open. Others, again, would
reply that they didn’t want anything in particular—“ fine
day for the kind of weather, wasn’t it? All thesame.it
looked as if it’d drizzle heavily soon—only wanted a few
drops o’ rain to start it”—and just before leaving they’d
say, “ Oh, by the way, you might let me have a marriage
license, wili you?” As a rule, female applicants got
through the job with less leer and subterfuge than the
males. Occasionally a couple full to the hatches with
drink and love would come in to be married by the Regis-
trar, and that official would have to soul the messengers
at them before they could be induced to leave the office.
Some departed heaving threats at the Department; some
left singing in a beer-pitched key ; some were thrown out
on the pavement, and their boozed fiancees pitched after
them. I remember one old girl—she contained at
least half-a-dozen drinks—who prevented the com-
pletion of her marriage contract by absolutely
and stubbornly declining to be wedded to her male com-
panion. She declared that she’d marry the Registrar or
nobody, and before that horrified officer could side-step
she had her arms round his neck and was breathing down
his back. One of the clerks who went to the chief’s
assistance was smitten on the nose l>y the lady’s suitor,
and his gore spurted all over the departmental records.
Two messengers thereupon battered the suitor through a
stained-glass door. When a John Dunn (who had been
attracted by the yells of devilry) arrived the room was
strewn with oaths, and the air was rent with the thud of
hashed ear and the last gasp of a kidnapped Registrar.
“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
staek of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
CENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe § Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
sir*
>NNV
ru('S( -)
zy/fi/e fvrft •
a rt°n 0 /
, " f ’ ° (yr
# Co £>/){_/re
yjfF** C*xr/?'&C £s
' tfAKtS a CeerA//vr/
of *r —-
HOLLOWAY’S
are acknowledged the
longest-distance killing'
guns in the world. Won-
derful results. Low in price. A week’s Free Trial given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write to the Agents—
S. COHEN SONS CO., Hardware Merchants,
310-16 King Street, Melbourne; and at London.
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
The Accondeon with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ.like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30/-, j^ist-Free^
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds. Price ISP, Post Free.
ALLAN & Co.,
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
LOOK FOR THE RED
■ki
at
flfL
JBr
When Buying Guns or Ammunition
This Winchester trade-mark is the hall-mark of guns and ammu-
nition as perfect as brains and experience, coupled with a com-
plete plant, can make them. The red Wis to guns, cartridges
and shotgun shells what the word “Sterling” is to silverware.
For Your Protection “Look for the Red W’
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Cable Address : RUSPOLI, LONDON.
Amethyst and Pearl Ear-
rings, £2 15s. per pair.
Pearl and Amethyst
Brooch, £3 3s.
Gold Art Locket, set
4 Diamonds, £1 Is.
Amethyst & Pearl or Coral
and Pearl Brooch, £1 Is.
Amethyst & Diamond
Pendant, £lO 10s.
Same price with
Opals or Peridots.
Ruby or
Sapphire &
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
New Pearl
and Peridot
Earrings,
£2 15s.
per pair.
Gold Charm Crystal
Bowl, 12s. 6d.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase Cheaoer and
Better than you are now doing. Write for Catalogue containing 6,000
Illustrations, Post Free to any part ol the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.G
SUPERFLUOUS
HAIR and MOLES.
MANY BEAUTIFUL WOMEN have enlisted my aid to
remove Superfluous Hair and Moles, and if you are'afflicted
with these annoying* little growths I am willirtg to extract
a few hairs for you free of charge.' Then, if satisfied that
my system of Electrolysis is prkctiCally painless, thsLt it
destroys the growth for ever, and that hoi scarring'will
result, you can begin the treatment. ‘ Could I offer to do
lt aim nave always ujic ui n»un,» 0 ... 6l
hairs. I OFFER £lOO REWARD r TQ , ANYONE
PROVIN.G MY SYSTEM UNSUCCESSFUL. Absolute
privacy is maintained by individual waiting-roomk pall,
write or ’phone (Central 193) fop appointment; or get
my new Booklet; |t is free for the asking.
FACE MASSAGE A SP^CIA^IT^,
MISS MAUD MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street,
Corner of Kingr and Pitt Streets, SYDNEY.
ENTRANCE IN KING STREET.
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10/ m
! Black, White,
' Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
1
ma
m
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Btrand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Uiilletin.] (o
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take ;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
5>S
A
t
t
The Milk Foods closely approximate' in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free * from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s t milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON. « Bridge #Loftus Sts., Sydney
W
m
b
A
r
V
Food.
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature,
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
of 12-gauge, about
Greener cross-bolt.
7£lb. ; of 16-gauge, about 6Mb. ;
DELIVERED,
bar locks, nitro proof, weight
£4 12s. 6d.
Stevens’ “Little Kra.g,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, V-sight, length over all, 36in. ; weight about 3A]b.
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s. 6d,
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
©
9
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30i n- K ru PP Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke 12-
and lb-gauge shot, 25/20 and 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 711 b
CARRIAGE PAID.
£5 10s
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
, , , , , . . f ° r short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37£in., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 4lb.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Branches—Hunter Street, Newcastle ; 273 Darling Street, Balmain / 197 Oxford
Street, Sydney ; Church Street, Parramatta / 311 King Street, Newtown. [3
A HUGE SUCCESS!
Custard
JVTTrt
Bird’s
Custard with Sruii
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s (id. from all booksellers. Post
tree from Bulletin office, ss.
Send in your Application
NOW, and we will send
one to your Address
Absolutely FREE
c*
(Drawn from Photo)
“The
Champion
Senior/’
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR — YOU !
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono-
graphs we have decided to GIVE AWAY a further
ONE THOUSAND PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at £6/10 /- and Guaran-
teed for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
e , . stocks of Phonograph Records. Records are
of C ™ S T e ’ " s * less to an y° ne . without a Phonograph. Picture yourself with plenty of ammunition but
no GUN. We propose to give you the GUN to make you feel the need of our ammunition—in
other words we give you a Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records Do
you see our reason Now? We will send you one of our “ Champion Senior Phono-
graphs” Free of any Charge whatever if you promise to give a practical demon-
stration of its wonderful merits in your own home circle and among your friends
using our new and popular Records and distributing our Circulars and Price Uists ’
which are sent free for this purpose with each machine. Write at once to
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING COMPANY
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
*
CUT THIS OUT
and mail to the
ANGLO-AU STRALIAN
IMPORTING CO, SYDNEY
I hereby make application for a
FREE Phonograph as advertised by
your Company.
Name
Street
Town
Stair
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis Cough Croup
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief - and’to those
who are subject to Colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
in the Ihr oat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic nor & Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain. r
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6 Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by W. G. HEARNE & Co., Ltd.,
Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Addrecc, when not obtainable locally.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 190 S edition, 2s fid posted. Mf.rrif.
England, 9d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is (id. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'is 2d. All Zola’s,
including- Nana, Isdd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Ui'-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is (id.
Joys of Life, Is fid. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Isposted. My N high hor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr.-Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science ok Life,
10s fid. Aunt. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s fid. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is fid. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is fid.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is fid.
1
NOWE CYCLOPEDIA
F.MBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that oeeur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.y, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man Uis Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s Gd. How McDougal Topped the Score &,
Other Verses, 3s (id. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, llkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Gd each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, ®*r- Established So Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Makis Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Or. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, K ey to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingbrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s Cd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Neiu ousnkss and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illas., loather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


PILES CURED
LONG STANDING &ASEt
REXONA MAKES ALL
WELL IN FOUR DAYS.
Sufferers from Piles will be interested in reading the following recital, showing
how a Balmain lady freed herself from this distressing complaint in the course of a
few days, by the judicious use of Rexona.
“ I should like to say a few words in praise,” writes Mrs. Maggie Munro, of 9 Cooper Street,
Balmain, N.S.W., “of Rexona Ointment. I had been suffering from Piles for some time, and had
tried a variety of well-advertised ointments for my complaint, but I only grew worse all the time.
A friend presented me with a tin of Rexona, and being something quite new I gave it a trial. The
result was a very pleasant surprise, for in the course of about four days’ treatment with Rexona I
was entirely rid of the Piles, and there is no sign of them coming on again. Rexona is wonderfully
quick and sure in its action, and I would advise anyone suffering as I did to try Rexona.”
Rexona is a reliable remedy for Piles, Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Eczema, Pimples,
Sores, Chapped Hands, Bad Legs and all Irritations and Eruptions of the Skin.
Sold by all chemists and stores in triangular pots at l/6and 3/-. Sample tin forwarded
free upon application to tnejLuxo-Tonic Pill Co., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
k'. A
THE RAPID HEALER
Nothing can surpass
Horrockses'
SHEETINGS for
durability
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO-BRITISH
EXHIBITION,
1908.
(>. & G. 604
When buying see HORROCKSES’
name on Face-plait and decline
substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
A GENEROUS OFFER.
To Prove that
Harlene Hair Drill grows hair.
A MILLION FREE OUTFITS to bs DISTRIBUTED.
If you would like to make your hair grow in healthy atid beautiful”
profusion, you can receive free for the mere asking a complete "Harlene
Hair Drill ” outfit.
Let any woman conjure up the vision of how much younger and how much
more attractive she would be if her hair was as it was, say, five to ten or fifteen
years back.
Let any man similarly summon before his mind’s eye the picture of the differ-
ence that his nair as it was five to fifteen years previous would make to him to-day
And it is this great difference that it is possible to restore. No woman’s—or man’s—
hair is to-day what it might— what it can— fie, unless it has had the natural and
physiological cultivating and beautifying benefit of “Harlene HaD Drill ”
After using “ Harlene ” you will be surprised—agreeably surprised. Mind, this we
Your hair will stop falling out by the end of the week,
damper feel * alive instead of dead, hot, hard, scurfy, greasy, sticky,
Note.—All the accessories required will be sent you without a penny cost. Tt costs
threepence to send you the package, and it is suggested that you do Messrs. E..wards
the courtesy of sending threepence for postage or carriage mentioned on the following
Coupon (of which you can send a copy if you would rather not cut. it from your paper),
- ur^ 0r ot * Harlenewherewith to continue the practice and benefits
Harlene Hair Drill may be obtained of all chemists and stores throughout
the woila at Is., „s. 6d„ and 4s. 6d. per bottle, or sent .direct and post paid on
receipt of postal order.
OOUA* O N for Free Trial Outfit.
To Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE 00.,
95 and 96, High Holborn, London, England.
Sirs,— l wish to try "Harlene Hair Drill” for one week in accordance
with your offer to readers of this paper, and shall be glad if
you will send me the “Harlene Hair-Drill” Outfit, with in-
structions, free of charge.
I enclose 3d. stamps for postage to any part of the world.
Name
Address
106
THE ACCORDEQN for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Price £l,
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Orffan Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £t 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any addre.-s in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE.
uumui'M
English
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889,
Lonpon IBGZ. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
f} Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
%
ROTH E R h AtyS
LON DON
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
The Voyager.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Halley’s comet, after an absence of 75 years* swings
again this year into the line of terrestrial sight.
I AM a Voyager Whose Way is lone and path-
less*
Whose road lies past the farthest star and
farthest sun ;
t am the Silent One, far-sweeping, calm and
wrathless.
Who sees the circling worlds from fiery vapor
spun !
I was before the Earth had known its primal
Shaper,
Or surged aloft through blinding flame to cosmic
life ;
I saw it roll through Space enwrapt in flaming
vapor—
A Ball that throbbed with seas of upward-
beating strife !
Ere from the mighty depths of cooling, restless
ocean
Had crept the first, all-sightless Living Thing,
Upon my trackless Way, in swift, far-striding
motion,
I sped—and saw the stars like golden banners
swing !
I heard the throb of Life that moved in proto-
plasm,
And saw the creeping forms whereon were
founded Men ;
Athwart three thousand million miles of deepest
chasm
I take my Path, and circle back o’er Earth
again !
1 heard the crack of ice, and saw the glacier
ploughing
Where London is, and Paris lifts her shining
head ;
I saw the Ga.ve-Man to the Sun in worship bowing,
And saw the flinten weapons buried with the
dead !
Ere from the wounded Earth the Moon was torn
asunder,
Or to the clicking Ape the gift of speech had
come ;
1 marched upon the seas of Time, and heard the
thunder
Of planets crashing like some pristine battle-
drum !
Far back, upon the plains now desolate and buried.
Where rose the clay-built walls and cities of
Shinar;
I saw Semitic kings go forth with armies serried,
And saw them bring in triumph captives from
afar !
Where rolls the turbid Nile to gateway Bolbitinic,
I saw the ancient priests to Crocodile and Cat
Bow down in chaunted awe—and heard the dust-
blown cynic
Laugh o’er the new-made grave of King
Amenernhat !
I heard the tramping hosts of Raineses and Sargon,
And saw the deep Euphrates red with Egypt’s
blood ;
Then strode upon my Way—and heard afar the
jargon
Of priests who worshipped Bel upon his throne
of mud !
I saw the Empires rise—-the stretch of wide
dominions,
And old Thalassic lords who ruled the narrow
seas ;
I saw the Romans march, and heard the Car-
thaginians
Swing with their great triremes unto the
Sicilies !
There is no Carthage now !—and Rome is Lord
no longer—
I who outride the Sun, I saw the Goths descend ;
I saw Attila’s sword, and heard the foemen
stronger
Beat at Constantine’s gates until the bitter end !
I saw the growth of Spain—a Rome re-born to
power,
And saw Columbus sail, to find the mighty land ;
Where is Spain’s glory now? I, who of space
hold dower,
I saw the sceptre fall from its priest-stiffened
hand !
I, who am come again out of the Depths un-
charted ;
I, who have travelled far, have asked all lands
like these :
“What are the Tidings Now? Who marches
Titan-hearted,
Whose standard lifts on high—whose ships are
on the seas?
I, who have seen the Nations rise, have watched
them perish—
Old Spain, and Greece and Rome, and all the
dead that call ;
I, who am one with Time—the Truths men fail
to cherish,
Are known to Me—O priest-wrecked Lands, I
know them all!
Is there Thought-Freedom here—are men all
strong and able ?
I, who am Voyager, have borne Earth’s Tidincrs
forth ;
Have ye escaped from thrall of priest and sway of
fable—
What are To-Day's New Gods and Fighting
Gospels vjorth l
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVERY.
The Haunted Camera.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r INHERE is something uncanny about a
camera. Most people regard it merelv as
an instrument which, when a button is
pressed, will take a picture. To a certain degree
that is so, just as a man is a structure of mostly
salt and water. But, before one has had much
experience with cameras, he finds that they have
moods and likes and dislikes.
And, just as in men there are grades and
iegrees, so it is with cameras. One that I own
possesses a sense of beauty and the instinct of
chivalry. It will take most faithful pictures of
the finish of a horse-race or a tight—but not of a
mar, still less of a woman. Point it at a lady and
it lies flagrantly, shamelessly. Never a picture of
a woman but it has beautified.
1 was living at St. Job’s Chambers* Sidney,
when I became possessed of it 5 and t had it about
six months before I discovered its kink. Many of
my git-1 friends ate beautiful, but I never knew
how lovely they were till I photographed theth
With that battiet’a. Still, the fact that the
bamera was untruthful did not dawn on me till I
photographed Mabel, the maid.
Every morning she brought me my cup of early
tea, and, as she passed out, her eyes would rest
lingeringly on the carbon prints with which iny
walls were adorned. Her last look on leaving the
room was always at the face of Madeline Singer,
the girl I was engaged to, taken among white
roses and printed in dark-green tints.
“I wish my bloke made pictures like them,”
she said, sadly ; “ an’ I’d make him take tons of
me an’ print ’em all in different colors.”
I was so amazed to hear that a girl of Mabel’s ugli-
ness could possess a boy that, for a moment, I was
speechless. Then my gentle heart broke. I
determined to make this poor girl happy. She
should have some pictures.
“ Well, if you’d like a few to send home, I’ll
take them for you, Mabel.”
“ Wish you meant it,” said Mabel, with an un-
believing leer.
“1 do. I’ll take you this morning, if you can
spare the time to sit.”
And then, as the words left my lips, I repented
me that I had said it. For it suddenly flashed
upon me that when she saw her pictures the
result would be bitter realisation of the great gull
that lay between her and Madeline. But it was
too late. Already Mabel was bounding down the
stairs, half mad with delight.
That was the day I found the camera out. For
when I looked at Mabel’s three negatives I reeled
and wondered what had happened. I was dumb-
founded. I dried them as quickly as possible, and
began to print in feverish impatience, making the
first in rich brown carbon.
It was a sweetly pensive face, Madonna-esque
but alluring. Great black eyes, fringed with
beautiful lashes, seemed to gaze wistfully into
eternity from an oval face that sloped down to a
delicate, pointed chin. The mouth was refined,
but sensuous; and the head was crowned with a
mass of gleaming black hair.
I glared at it. wondering how on earth it had
got into the camera.
“ My Lawd ! Am I as beautiful as that there ? ”
I swung round and blinked at the common
little woman before me. As I locked I saw for
just one fleeting moment the beautiful face the
camera had taken. And before I had properly
perceived it, it had gone. Only an unwholesome,
dirty-brown countenance was there, grinning with
delight at the lovely thing its owner believed to
be an exact picture of herself.
“Well, Mabel, I never noticed it before ; but
you must be, or the camera wouldn’t take you so.”
She held out a hand like a frying-pan.
“ Lemme take it downstairs and knock ’em flat
with it. I’ll get it into them newspapers as
‘Pieter of a Lydy,’ an’ the world ’ll go off its
block over it.”
She walked downstairs with the step of a con-
quering queen, in spite of her ugly face and torn
d ress.
She was back in less than ten minutes, red with
fury, her face all puckered up.
“They’re a hignorant lot, downstairs !”
“ Why, what did they say, Mabel? ”
“They said you was pulling me leg, or ’ad bin
drinkin’. It was no more like me, they said, than
I was like ther Madonna, an’ if you looked at
yer machine yer’d find the glass broken. Either
that or yer camera was an ’orrible liar.”
“ Well, you ought to be pleased, Mabel—that
was sheer, downright jealousy. If you always
take like this, Mabel, I’ll make scores of you and
get rich on the sale of them, and pay you 10 per
cent, royalty.”
“ Watcher mean ?—put ’em in papers and
books, an’ call it ‘ Pieter of a Lydy ’ ? ”
“No, sell them as pictures of Australian love-
liness. But we’ll talk of that some other time.”
I hung it, or rather an enlargement of it, in
the annual exhibition, and with it and other pic-
tures, in which she was the central figure, swept
the hoard. The beauty of the thing fascinated
the judges and made the spectators drunk. It was
stolen three times by men who offered large prices
for it. But hard up as I always am, I couldn’t
bring myself to part with it. I fell in love with
the thing, and broke off my engagement with
Madeline Singer and her £7OO per annum because
she was not as beautiful as that picture. She was
broken-hearted, but when she looked at that
glorious face she admitted that I had an excuse.
She even wanted to meet the original.
This 1 had to refuse, and she grew bitter.
“You think I might try to set her against you.
I am sorry you think me so unworthy ! ” she said
with quiet dignity, while her eyes filled with tears
of mortification.
“No, Madeline, my dear; you are wrong. I
cannot introduce you to her, because she doesn’t
live.”
“ Dear, I am sorry for you. Why, you could
hardly have known her before she died. That is
too dreadful.”
“No, she is not dead—at least, as far as I
know,” I said hurriedly, as a sudden inspiration of
explanation came into my mind.
Madeline looked puzzled.
“I do not understand. You say she does not
live and has not died. Please explain ! Is it the
portrait of a painting ? ”
“No, it’s the creation of my camera. The girl
I thought I was photographing is as ugly as this
one is beautiful. But your remark gave me an
idea. I think the soul of some great classic beauty
must have looked out of the subject’s common-
place face and made the camera reproduce its
loveliness.”
“I am afraid you grow too deep for me to
follow,” she said coldly, and swept from the
room.
I never saw her again. She married a naval
officer afterwards and went to live at Hong Kong.
That was only the first of many troubles.
As the weeks went by my soul grew hungrier
for the real original of that picture. I became
morose, unable to eat or work. The boss came
into my room to see exactly what was wrong with
me ; and as he walked to the desk his eye fell on
one of Mabel’s portraits. He forgot all about the
object of his visit.
“ What a beautiful woman ! Good heavens, is
that your wife?”
I shook my head gloomily.
“Your sister, then, eh?”
“No.”
(Continued on next page.)


m
A
■
mm.
y /77Z
ODD jobs about the house or
garden, especially if they
entail the use of tools to which
he is not accustomed, often re=>
suit in a crushed thumb or
some painful injury for
the head of the household*
His wife, too, is continue
ally “ in the wars” while
doing the housework, and
scarcely a day passes without one of the
children getting hurt in one way and another.
Cuts, bruises, burns and scalds bring more
trouble than enough, as the housewife has it—
unless there’s a pot of Zam-Buk handy. If this
wise precaution has been taken, each member
of the family flies to Zam-Buk for the speedy
relief from smarting pain that this soothing
balm affords, and the hurt is soon forgotten,
Zanl-Buk is the ideal healer for the home
because it Is perfectly antiseptic, a reliable
germ=killer (preventing poisoning or festering),
and a natural skin-grower, besides being
wonderfully soothing. Keep a pot handy in
your home!
'M
m
rS
\
I
Every Home Needs ZAM-BUK
For every kind of injury and disease to which the skin Is
subject, Zam-Buk is invaluable. Being- a perfect antiseptic,
Zam-Buk prevents any tendency to blood-poisoning, and its
soothing and healing virtues are universally known. All
Stores and Chemists stock Zam-Buk at Is. 6d. or 3s. 6d.
family size (containing nearly four times Is. 6d ).
Mr. U. H. S. Thomp-
son, Head Goods-shed
Porter at Wagga Wagga,
N.S.W., says : “Bering
my occupation I am con-
stantly knocking and
cutting my hands, and I
assure you Zam-Buk
Comes itl Very tlahdy. It
seems to act like magic
on cuts and bruises, and
quickly heals them up.
I recommend isatn-Btik
strongly, and no home
should be without it.”
am
r
RUB IT m r
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day*
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If yon Have not, yon Have not
done yonr dnty by yonr skin and
complexion. If, on the otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe sKin generally—you
HAVE- nsed PEARS, yon can feel
Happy, for yon will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beanty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beantifnl
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
“ Well, then, who is it ? ”
. “A girl I photographed.”
“ A girl you photographed 1 ” And he stopped
speechless, His look told what he could not find
words to say.
“Yes, I wish I could ; that’s whirt’s eating my
heart out. Hang it all, do you think I’m a fool ? ”
“I do. Look here! What the deuce did I
come to see you about ? Oh. yes—well, anyhow,
will you give me an introduction? What’s the
trouble between you, anyhow? I’d give all I
have to marry a girl like that. Don’t you want
to marry her ?”
“No ! What I want is a holiday. I want to
forget something.”
“My boy !” he said kindly, putting his hand
on my shoulder in a fatherly way, “ when you
have the chance of possessing such beauty as
that, don’t haggle over trifles. Of course you’ll
have rivals even vVhen you’re married. But that’s
the price you’ll have to pay for such beauty. It’s
worth it. Now let me act as mediator between
you; Fix a date, and I’ll give voU a Wedding
present that’ll give you a real good" holiday.”
“ It’s impassible !” I said, gloomily.
“Nonsense! You must. Either make it up
and marry her, or introduce the to her and let me
have a chance.”
“YoU’d fall down dead if I introduced the
original of that picture to you.’’
“No, t Wouldn’t. I Understand what you
mean. She’s not respectable—a professional
model, or something of that sort. That’s nothing.”
“No, she’s a domestic servant, thoroughly
respectable, cooks Well, and, as far as I know,
hasn’t a single vice, barring her looks.”
“Well, make Up yoUr mind which you are
going to do; It’s one Or the other.”
■k * * *
Next day I brought him in a replica of the
portrait. lie gazed on the loVely thing stead-
fastly, and then turned With a snort:
“ Have you made Up your mind which you are
going to do? Here you are fooling about, with
follows running after her by the sdore. Great
Caesar, if you don’t Want her, I insist that you
introduce me to her this very day.”
“ There she is,” I said, pointing to the carbon.
“You have her. Worship her, and eat out your
heart, as lam doing.’.’ ,
He fell Into the chair.
“ What!—-is she dead ? ’*
“She never lived,” I said enigmatically, and
left him dazed.
Next day I found that some hog had bought up
all my old promissory notes, and Was pressing for
payment. I was bankrupt unless I could get an
extension. But that didn’t worry me. My con-
solidated creditor demanded an interview. I
gave it.
“You had a wonderful picture in the annual
exhibition. lam anxious to meet the original. I
have ascertained that she is not your wife nor
your intended wife. I had a copy made at con-
siderable expense. Now lam willing to hand you
back all your p.n.’s on condition that you have
dinner with me and bring the lady. All I want
is an introduction and the opportunity to urge
my suit. My intentions are strictly honorable.”
I laughed harshly.
“ What are you laughing at ?”
“ You ask me for an introduction to the original
of that picture? ”
“Yes, and, in return, I will hand you back
your bills.”
“ Right! Put it on paper. I’ll introduce you.”
* * » *
The next man to appear on the scene was Pro-
fessor Starr, the bacteriologist. He asked me to
dine with him, and at the meal he unfolded his
little plot in a most tactful manner. He dis-
coursed lightly on pictures, narrowed it down to
portraits, suddenly remembered mine in the exhi-
oition, and stopped short by asking who and what
the original was.
“Mabel Jane Higgs, domestic servant, aged
22, unmarried, not even engaged.”
The Professor reeled and nearly fell off his
chair.
I offered to make him a copy of the picture.
He also wanted an introduction to the original,
t begged him for his own sake to be satisfied with
the picture. Many people said there was a streak
of madness in Starr —and there was. He suddenly
broke forth into ravings.
“Look here,” he foamed, “don’t try to play
with me. I can hit you with something worse
than sudden death. I can inoculate you with a
serum that’ll make you come out all over in blue
spots like the diseased chimpanzee in the Zoo.
There are a hundred other things I could do to
you, but I like the blue spots best. Now, will you
listen to reason ?”
“Give me a fortnight. There are others ; and
I’ll introduce her to the lot of you at the same
dinner. By Heavens, it’ll be a weird function, too.”
“ I don’t care how or where you do it, so long
as you do. Why wait a fortnight ? If lam not
introduced to that girl before she is married or
engaged to someone else,. I’ll make you something
between an ape and a leper.”
The thing was getting serious. I promised that
the dinner should take place two nights later.
* * * . *
I gave the dinner in my rooms at St. Job’s;
and Mabel waited. Every now and then the
conversation reverted, despite all efforts to keep
away from the subject, to the photo, and the
original. Mabel, listening, dimly understood.
She was arrayed as she had never been
hefore, and occasionally I caught flashes of the
original of the picture; but those assembled
idiots did not. They made good speed through
the courses. Twice the professor surreptitiously
showed me a small phial, and there was madness
in his eye.
When Mabel had handed round the coffee I
rose. As she came down the room I mounted the
step that led to the balcony and seized the girl by
the hand.
“ Gentlemen ! ”
Mabel threw her head back between her
shoulders and assumed a wooden expression with
gawky pride frozen all over it.
They swung round :
“Geptlemen. this young lady is the original of
the picture. It was taken in this room, and,
excepting that she is somewhat more gorgeously
arrayed than on that occasion, she is in every
respect the same. Allow”
I did not finish. There seemed to be reason
for haste. I left Mabel to shift for herself, and
scrambled out on to the balcony. Thence I
reached the roof, and fled away through the sky-
garden, down the fire-escape, and on to the roof
of the next building. There I burst through a
spndow into the house itself. I heard shrieks as
: f rushed down the stairs, and when I dashed into
the street, I fell over certain mangled remains on
the pavement.
It was the boss, who had fallen in trying to cut
off my retreat. Next morning I read that the
money-lender was also dead—through heart-
failure brought on by a fit of passion. Further-
more, the professor was a raving maniac, and had
been slightly injured by the fragments of a
broken phial. Most remarkable of all, he was
adorned with blue spots about 2ft. round.
I destroyed all the portraits taken with that
camera, and never used it again. But I have an
idea what the instrument was aiming at. It
showed people as Nature intended them to
as they would have been but for ignorance, slum-
life, and all the other sins of themselves and their
ancestors back to the 1000th generation. It was
a sort of divine or spiritual camera sent into the
World as a protest against the general mis-
management of things. And like other great
teachers it missed its purpose. A deranged and
bright blue professor was hardly the result aimed
at.
Mabel survived. She sunk back into the old
routine of waiting and dish-washing. When she
was 30 a man named Stubbs married her for her
savings,
O. A. JEFFHIES.
Death, Time and the Strong Old
Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON a snow-lain thilrtd’rous heath;
Where, across the shadowy gtdves.
Flame-eyed \VolveS; with naked teeth
Gleaming from their hotrid sheath;
Ruffled by in ravening droves—
Two most ghostly shadows there;
Death and Time, the grisly pair;
Met to give each Winter cheer.
(Had they known I sheltered near !)
Wolves came up and roamed and went.
From the grey trees, stiff with rime.
Gnarled and threatening, blasted, bent.
Grey owls srtored their discontent.
These braVe gentry, Death and Time,
.Leaned them each upon his staff,
Gave “Good-day ” with cheerless lailgll,
Stood to talk awhile. (And I
In the covert crouched near by !)
Time his scythe had laid aside,
Death had sent the wolves to heel.
Then he shook his head and sighed.
And he told how Kings had died,
Cringing from his silbtie steel j
How the buds in gardens cool,
Chaste and fair and beautiful,
Came to utter bitterness
When he stooped their bloom to bless.
How a star-eyed Queen, whose word
Bound the world—whose valiant might
Shook the earth with thunder —heard
His desire, and no more stirred,
While her maidens in the night
Screamed above her. How a priest,
Praying towards a burnished east,
Sighed a long, slow sigh and fell
(Ah, what t des he had to tell !).
Time and Death, the grisly pair !
Ear to mouth a tale went in,
Of a Greyhead, strong and spare,
Born of woman. In despair
Death had let his arrows spin,
For the old man’s heart and brain,
Swift and subtle—but in vain.
Thunderbolts and flood and fire
Could not wreck his grim desire.
“In the bloody maze of war,”
Whispered Death, “I bruised his heel;
Marked him with a sabre-scar ;
Trained the cannon’s-battle star ;
Loosed the long-swords ; let their steel
Flame around him. Though he fell,
Yet he rose again. A spell
Stronger than a mother’s prayer
Hedged his red soul everywhere!
“One night, to a plunging ford.
From the hill I sent the flood.
Down the gorge the river roared
Through the darkness; raved and poured
Round him, freezing all his blood,
Beating at his heart’s gate. Lo,
When the dawn came creeping slow,
On the shore he lay. God wot,
All my care had gone for naught.
“ From the stifling fever heap
Little devils, armed with knives,
At my bidding, in his sleep
Thrust and cut and stabbed him deep,
All in vain. My chains and gyves
Sunder at the mighty will
Of this man I cannot kill.”
And the baffled phantom, he
Clanked his sad bones drearily.
There they stood and murmured low—
Time and Death, the guilty twain.
Then I, crouching, saw them go
Whispering down the angry snow.
Old Time whistled. Down the plain,
From the distances, strange things
Darkened round on noiseless wings.
(God ! I knew these flying fears—
Years—the famished, grey old years !)
Down the plain they went. He came—
He, Greyhead, so strong, so tall ;
And upon his giant frame
One by one the birds of shame
Settled at their master’s call ;
And the old man laughed ; and Time.
Chuckled, too, to see them climb,
Close their ranks, and, stark and still.
Wait upon his awful will.
Stumbling down the blasted heath,
Greyhead faltered to his fate ;
Faltered—fell; and shining teeth
Gleamed from many a crimson sheath.
Then the grim birds' beaks of hate
Blinded him. Then, in dumb rout,
From the gloom the wolves leapt out. . . .
Time flung up a, hand ; the icings
Filled the sky with shadowings.
Death and Time their secrets keep.
While th: flame-mouthed wolves drink deep!
MAORILANI).
C. ALLAN MABRIS.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
o
a
You can't tell a
whisky by its looks.
You can by the look
of its label.
When the Label reads
John WalKer & Sons,
that’s “Johnnie WalKer,”
the Whisky with the
LITTLE LABEL
and the
BIG REPUTATION.
Labels are your
protection against im-
mature whisky.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
Bom 1820
Still going
strong.
A superb library* volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
To be HealtHy
Do as the Healthy do.
The healthy are always well only because they never *
permit themselves to be unwell.
You will have noticed that a clock left to itself is
rarely right; it requires to be regulated carefully. If it is
two minutes slow now it will be a quarter of an hour
behind next week, and it is never two days alike.
We ourselves are very like clocks. Only in rare
instances can we be left to go by ourselves. To keep
Greenwich time—always to be right and never to be
wrong—we want to be regulated periodically. The healthy
attend to themselves, therein showing a wise care which
all can emulate ; if they will. It is simple enough.
TaKc
notice of the least symptom of disquietude, and promptly
attend to yourself. That disinclination to exertion which
you have to-day is the first warning; the stomach wants
regulating. If you are wise you will put the mischief
right while it is easy to do it. A little neglect and the
stomach will get hopelessly slow, and will get slower and
slower until it will need drastic measures to make it go at
all. It will be much worse than an irregular clock; this
only causes you to lose your train ; an uncertain stomach
will make you lose your work. Keep your stomach up to
time and the whole system “ keeps time,” too; work is a
pleasure and comes easy. It is as easy to be healthy as
to be always ailing ; do as the healthy do. Take
BUCHAN'}
PI US
Sold everywhere in Boxes, labelled; price 10}4d. (36
pills), Is. 1y 2 d. (56 pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 pills).
WOLFE’S
o r «jpjKfe( '
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.;
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining, donalo Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvkrs Powbr.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
W V
honestly and without charge.
S.H. HENSHALL,
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending- all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
Regd. Chemist,
by Examination
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/14. 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
D/ARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
p. BRANDAUER & Co.s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention <s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s UirmingglnaLm, England.
ik your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE * BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
ABk your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frot, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp far Illustrated Lists of Books and Noveltiet
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.Q.. SYDNEY .
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficnlty in expectoration. Asthma,NerronsCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
K" I KS. Snid hi all Chemist*.
L h i Britisb=Jlustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
Price
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d.; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Superior to®
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
ICOBAIBA.
f Cures the same
diseases without
48
Inconvenience
in
hours.
m)
Each Capsule bears the name
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.


PERDRIAU’S “WATERSHED” OILSKINS
FOR WET WEATHER WEAR
No matter whether you are riding, driving or
walking, you can adjust the “Watershed” to
keep you quite dry.
There are two grades,
//
both obtainable in yellow
and black, and built on the
same lines.
Prices are 255. and 305.,
and all the leading' dealers
throughout Australia stock
the coats.
Our “Watershed” Book-
let will interest you, for it
contains much useful in-
. . . formation regarding the
care or oilskins. We send it free on request, and
direct orders for the coats are sent carriage free to
any address.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney
PUMPS.
The Victoria Turbo-Pumps
Manufactured by
Willans Robinson Ltd., Rugby.
We caij quote for High or Low Lift Pumps, either Belt or Electric Drive.
Apply— T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT ? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
! durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
! quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2iin. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining -
• and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
; Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, (id :
Packet of Ten, sd.
Reliable 8 Cheap Motive Power for Sheep Shearing Machines
THE WORLD-FAMED
TANGYE ” Oil Engines.
SIMPLE and DURABLE.
“Clayton 8 Shuttleworth”
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES.
STRONG and ECONOMICAL.
DALGETY &
Showroom and W qrl&txigpj
• Point, SYDNEY,
HOW IS THE TIME
To send in your
Handpieces, etc.,
for overhaul and
repairs.
PREPARE FOR THE
COMING SEASON
By bringing your
old outfits UP-TO-
DATE.
i\
TKB
THE NEW
WOLSELEY"
Screwless
Joint
Saves Time and Money.
Have it fitted to
your Handpieces.
A.E.G.
Transformers
a Speciality.
STAERKER & FISCHER,
40 Clarence Street, Sydney ;
172 William Street, Melbourne.
Electrical Engineers and Contractors.
WE UNDERTAKE ALL ELECTRICAL WORK.
LIGHTING AND POWER.
Inspect our Stock of A.E.G. MOTORS,
GENERATORS, LAMPS and Accessories
BROS
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street. BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DEDTH
St. George’s Terrace, rEIUn,
9 9
Sty
blsl
Galvanise
Corrugated
Iron.
*
60
Clarence st.
Sydney
mi
(Ffrench’s Process)
PATENTED.
CHEAP, SIMPLE, IMON-POISONOUS, BUT A SURE KILL.
PROVED BEYOND DOUBT AS THE QUICKEST AND BEST SYSTEM. WRITE FOR TESTIMONIALS.
Guaranteed to penetrate and destroy to the furthest dead-ends.
Sole Manufacturers and Agents,
263 George St.,Sydney; 525 Collins St.,Melbourne.
