

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEW AI
m
1
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
*
Gardner Duplex
steam Pumps.
Perfectly Reliable in Mines and Factories.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
ECOBA.RX.
Ijadley’s Orient fiotel.
p
lON
iWftiiiiawMiiiiMfi
i/. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
Take it back,
I must have
Pint Apple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB'S
;■■ . \ ■-* w . v s '•£ k .-\ ? v -7 >.*. »rj •• v • z • -*• •/ •£ - v•-■ -v*
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
dun lie
£
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
mmzm
..Jii ifc.iMj lii— 1
rehfdz
279 George Street Sydney .
>vV *//
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
DRINK
V
)lliil|]l!lilllllil!ll!llit!ii!lllllll!iil!ii|ili!llllil:
There can be no question about the superiority of a
MALTHOID FLAT ROOF for a commercial building* The
recent City fire clearly demonstrated its advantages, as an adjacent
MALTHOID FLAT ROOF formed a splendid working base for
the operations of the firemen, while the roof itself proved its fire
retarding quality* Why not write us for further information ?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLTS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY ITDl TD
h
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
fdh
Machinery Merchants,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office), SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BLACKSTONE
OIL ENGINE.
New Way Benzine
Air Cooled Engine.
DAVEY PAX MAN
STEAM PORTABLE ENGINE
STEAM TRACTION ENGINE
SUCTION GAS PLANTS .
IMPERIAL
OIL TRACTOR
For Ploughing and
Agricultural Traction
HELIDOH SPA WATER
H ELI DON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
8 HAILORAN, Ltd.
The Bulletin
Voi. 32.—N0. 1640.]
[Thursday, July 20, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GOOD BOOKS ARE PROFITABLE INVESTMENTS,
RETURNING MANY TIMES THEIR
INITIAL. COST.
' 5000 TECHNICAL BOOKS.
Send for our List of Technical Books, specially prepared for Home Study. We have larjre stocks of
on all Technical Subjects, and can supply the Elementary Handbook for the Amateur or the Tevt two,
for the Professional. 130011
JUST PUBLISHED: A NEW LIST OF BOOKS ON ADVERTISING, SALESMANSHIP ACCOUNTAivrv
AND MODERN BUSINESS METHODS. ’ ACCOUNTANCY
A List of the Best Books on Any Subject Sent per Return Mail.
ROBERTSON’S, 238 PITX STREET (OPPOSITE SYDNEY SCHOOL OF ARTS).
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS*
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
A.
03
&
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Ag
encies in
THE RED PAGE
The Claw —Cynthia Stockley (Dymock’s).
Less melodramatic and better written
than Poppy, this story holds the reader,
as Africa held the heroine, like a claw.
The sorrows of Deirdfe, wedded to the
wrong man, arouse sympathy, and the
end is , one that satisfies the novel reader.
There are strong men and some fighting
in the book, and the black sheep are a
poetical people. “Nearly all of them
carry about hidden in the deeps of their
hearts, verses, tag ends of sonnets, vali-
ant lines from the men’s poets—
Henley, Kipling, Gordon.”
Members of the Family- —Owen Wister (Mac-
millan). , Good short stories by the au-
thor of The Virginian, in which the
humor and atmosphere of that book re-
appear, together with Scipio Le Moyne.
A curious preface discloses the fact that
nister made cowbells “ tankle ” instead
of ‘‘tinkle,’ and “tankle” is now in the
Oxford Dictionary on his authority.
Sam’s Kid —F. E. Mills Young (Lane). A
love story of one girl and two men, with
a disturbing third man, who occasions
some dramatic situations. The scene is
Africa, but the interest is concentrated
in the characters. Worth reading.
People of Pophatn— Mrs. Geo. Wemyss (Con-
stable). Quiet, humorous, up-to-date
version of Mitford’s Our Village.
The Man Shakespeare —Frank Harris (Geo
Robertson and Co., 65.). A new edition
of a notable book.
The West in the East
Price Collier, an American who published
a breezy criticism of England and the Eng-
lish about two years ago, has since then
travelled through India, Japan, and a part
of China, and has many interesting things to
say about the people whom he met. His
book, 1 he Ti es# in the East (Duckworth, per
Angus and Robertson), is a vigorous White
man’s view of the Black and Yellow, without
thp assumption of moral superiority, but
with a plain statement of facts to be faced.
It is unsparing in condemnation of his
countrymen for their provincialism and gen-
eral bounderishness. Travel has opened his
own mind and made him see things in a
different perspective, but he is afraid that
the democracy is blind and foolish. He
tells the Americans that there is no war-
threatening danger from the East “unless
we provoke it by exaggerated sentimen-
tality.”
To talk of friendly Japan or of friendly
breimany, however, is childish. No commer-
cial rival armed to the teeth is friendly.
Ihe enthusiasm with which he recounts his
discovery of the East is refreshing. It be-
gan in the Mediterranean—that embroidered
sea whose tides are “the pulse-beats of the
heart of history.” With countless ages look-
ing down upon him, he saw. that “we Ameri-
cans are merely ethnological mushrooms in
a grove of palms and cedars.”
„ fir st Arabs he met made him feel the
ioree of Kipling’s warning to the fools “who
tried to hustle the East.” Later on he
found that an emphatic curse and an im-
perative gesture did enable him to get a
hustle on the East; but he concluded that
their fatalism is that of despair, while that
of the West is of confidence. He quotes
the lines of Matthew Arnold, without which
no Eastern travel book is complete :—■
The East bows low before the blast
In patient deep disdain ;
She let the legions thunder past,
And plunged in thought again.
The British, whose affairs, he tells
Americans, are next in importance to their
own, excited his admiration. Their rule in
India with a few exceptions is excellent,
particularly in their policy of non-interfer-
ence with native religions and customs. He
was charmed with the state and dignity of
their functions, which impress the Oriental
mind, delighted with their capable adminis-
trators, and became quite lyrical over the
surpassing ability of the aides-de-camp.
Price Collier had introductions to all the
nicest people, and saw the official at his
best. He also saw a good deal of the na-
tives, and concluded that they are not only
not ready for representative government and
for Christianity, but they have no wish to
get ready. The unrest in India is confined
to scattered groups, a few people altogether,
who might, however, work up religious fan-
aticism into a rebellion. The fault of the
Government is that “whenever it does any-
thing useful for the people it knows not how
to do it with good grace.” It has also forced
British goods upon India without duty,
while native manufacturers are starved out
by heavy duties. This economic factor is
the. chief cause of unrest; another is the edu-
cation of young Indians for whom no places
can be found in the army or the civil ser-
vice.
. A large wedge of Indian history from the
time of the Great Mogul, and much solid in-
formation is thrust into the traveller’s tale,
but it is all so brightly written that the
reader takes it cheerfully, and passes on to
Burmah, where Collier found John China-
man very much in evidence.
As I look back from a distance India
seems sober even to sullenness, Burmah gay
and bright, Japan eager, curious, superficial,
and the Chinese, strange to say, though
proud and indifferent, the forceful and com-
petent people of the East.
The Chinaman is the trusted handler of
money, tjie Jap is not. The Chinaman is
wily, lecherous, rapacious, but he has “some
quality of playing the game the way we play
it that is lacking in the others.”
Just as everybody agrees to praise the
Japanese as a soldier, so everybody agrees to
question the honesty of the Japanese as a
trader.
Collier says that he could fill many chap-
ters with examples of their untrustworthi-
ness. He found the Japanese smile to be
the fixed smile of a mask, and the people,
judged by European standards, “awkward,
unmoral, self-conscious, bumptious and dis-
honest.” When one forgets all the flam that
has.been written about their charm, and sees
the people as they are —-then, says Collier
Then you realise how and why practically
the people of all nations who have constant-
dealings with them, from ambassadors to
travelling salesmen, have grown to hate
them with an untempered zeal.
Their fussy and self-conscious politeness,
their comical vanity and self-satisfaction,
their parochial assumption that all the world
is wrong—they alone right, their lack of con-
sideration for others —particularly for their
women, their callow and sophisticated youth-
fulness, their lack of personal dignity and in
place a chip-on-the-slioulder assertiveness,
their new feeling of a scarcely veiled con-
tempt for the white race (which, by the way,
is not even veiled among the Chinese), all
these characteristics overlaid with a lacquer
of hardness and a national selfishness which
no European ever penetrates—even poor
Lafcadio Hearn learned it to his cost before
he died—account to some extent for this ex-
traordinary shift of opinion upon the part
of Europeans from condescending fondness
to virulent and lbudly-expressed contempt.
The Japs, he mentions, appropriated every
blessed thing they have, in art, religion and
letters, from India, China and Korea, but
failed to improve upon it. “Their past is a
copy of the East, their present is a copy of
the West.” They are a nation of amateurs in
Western civilisation, trying to be superficially
what essentially they are not. The condi-
tion of the bulk of the people is deplorable.
“The Japanese are not taxed, they, are
robbed.” And the manners of the poorer
classes are disgusting.
I have never been go nearly acquainted
with the habits, of a monkey cage as in some
of the Japane® railway carriages.
Their attraction as a people has departed.
“There was no exaggeration in the old
praise, there is no exaggeration in the new
blame.”
A journey through Korea increased his
dislike, for he saw everywhere the Japs
treating Koreans badly. At length he'
reached Ilarbin, where Russian influence be-
gins. He was rapturously delighted to be in
the hands of white men again, to see men
acting spontaneously, to hear natural laugh-
ter, to meet people who were really alive.
I do not want the legions to thunder past
while I plunge in thought again. I want to
thunder past with the legions. Let the
milksop tell ypu there are no racial preju-
dices, no patriotism, no exclusive love of
your own, no radical and profound belief
that the Avorld belongs to those who take it
and that you are one of the takers ; that
there is no East, no West—but the moment
you step across the line between the East
and the West you shake yourself, rub your
eyes and find yourself the West’s own child
again.
Cheap Aids to Self-Education
Ten more volumes have been issued in
The Home University Library (Williams
and Norgate, Is. 3d. per vol.), each of which
is a tabloid of valuable information made
by an expert. In Health and Disease, Dr.
Leslie Mackenzie gives a simple account of
the conditions leading to disease and the
present methods of prevention. The lay-
man will be interested in his lucid descrip-
tion of the battle between the white blood
cells and the disease germs, and of the
opsonin treatment which seasons the germs
so that they will tempt the appetite of the
jaded white cells. The use of tuberculin in
the attack on consumption brings hope of
an astonishing drop in the death-rate, and
leads Mackenzie to prophesy:
The fight between the greater and the
lesser organism, the human body and this
remorseless parasite, will be changed into a
friendly and continuous process of immuni-
sation. And so the terrors of heredity will
be once more put to confusion; for ‘to be
born of mildly tubercular stock may yet be-
come the best certificate of physical and
ethical fitness.
Dr. Charles Mercier, an authority on mental
diseases, writes on Crime and Insanity, He
argues that Insanity is much more than
mental disorder —“it is a disorder of the
process of adjusting self to circumstances,”
and is primarily manifested in conduct. Its
intimate relation with crime is obvious, and
Mercier, in classifying the crimes, makes
some good suggestions for the reform of
criminal law.
J. A. Hobson’s Science of Wealth is a
primer of political economy by one whose
larger works entitle him to dogmatise H. II
Johnston’s The Opening-up of Africa, H. W.
Davis’s Medieval Europe and Prof. D. Mar-
goliouth’s Mohammedanism drop into their
places in the historical section.
This paragraph from A. Whitehead's In-
troduction to Mathematics holds an import-
ant truth:
It is a profoundly erroneous truism, re-
peated by all copybooks and by eminent
people when they are making speeches, that
we should cultivate the habit of thinking of
what we are doing. The precise opposite is
the case. Civilisation advances by extend-
ing the number of important operations
which we can perform without thinking
about them. Operations of thought are like
cavalry charges in a battle—they are strictly
limited in number, they require fresh horses,
and must only be made at decisive moments.
The Animal World, by F. W. Gamble,
and Evolution, by Profs. Patrick Geddes
and J. Arthur Thomson, are complementary
studies. The latter could hardly be sur-
passed as a clear and concise statement of
what Evolution now means. The authors
parade the evidences, show evolution in
actual process, trace all the great steps in
the development of Darwin’s idea, explain
Mendelism and Weismannism and, with a
glance at Bergson’s Creative Evolution,
Conclude that “the next step in progress
must depend upon how far we naturalists
can become something of psychologists and
even philosophers.”
Wentworth
William Charles Wentworth was the first
of “Australia’s noblest sons,” and, with all
faults, a great man. He has not yet re-
ceived much honor in his own country. It
is true that certain places in N.S.W. have
been named after him, and .that there is a
statue of him in the University, of which he
was the chief founder. To be of value as
a memorial, a statue should stand in an
open public place, and a bronze Wentworth
by. a good sculptor would be a more appro-
priate figure in a Sydney park than the
statue of Edward VII. suggested by some
ultra-loyalists. The late King has already
a thousand times greater opportunities of
remembrance than has our first great patriot.
To the present generation Wentworth is
little: more than a name. There is no ade-
quate biography of him available. That
which was written by G. B. Barton, and
partly printed in The Australian Star, has
never been republished in book form, and it
is not likely now that it ever will be.
The Story of William C. Wentworth, by
Lewis Deer and John Barr (Angus and
Robertson, 9d.), is intended for school chil-
dren, and will be of great value to them. It
will also supply the general reader with a
concise and impartial account of Went-
worth’s career which cannot be obtained
elsewhere. The authors have done their
work well. The services rendered by Went-
worth as explorer, advocate of the ciaims of
New South Wales by book and letter, and
fighter by newspaper and public speech for
the rights of Australian citizens are set
forth clearly ; and, no less clearly, his at-
tempt to buy for an old song the best part
of Maoriland. That and his animosity
towards Gipps, who squelched it, are the only
serious blots on his career. It was as natural
for the pioneers to grab any empty land lying
about as it was for the patriarchs to add a
new wife to the harem whenever a likely lass
hove in sight. Batman did a little deal
with Jagga Jagga and other early Mel-
bournians which was successful. Went-
worth audaciously tried for a much bigger
thing, and failed. Dr. Jim might have
ranked with Clive if the Raid had come
ofe—but it didn’t. The course of history
never runs smooth.
Wentworth was nothing if not bold. All
his actions bespeak physical and moral cour-
age.’ Towards the end of his life he be-
came conservative, but the early part of his
public career was one of of sturdy fighting
on behalf of the people against tyrannous
government. His advocacy of Federation,
and establishment of the University, are
evidences of bold, far-sighted statesmanship.
Given the occasion, he would have been first
in war as he was first in peace—the George
Washington of Australia.
Douglas Fry
By the death of Douglas Fry, Australia
loses her only liorse-painter worthy of seri-
ous consideration. Lambert painted the
horse well, just as Velasquez did, not for any
remarkable love for the animal, but because
it is a fine matter for treatment. Maliony
loved the horse—any horse —and drew the
typical bush horse with singular insight; but
for Fry, better equipped technically, and
with a greater knowledge of anatomy, the
thoroughbred horse was a of religion,
and when he talked of a “good \m” his face
lit up and glowed with a holy enthusiasm —
sportsmen will understand that “inner il-
lumination.”
Fry was born in Suffolk, and schooled in
Brussels. (It was but a fortnight ago, when
we talked of “Constable’s” country, that he
told me he kpew every hedge for 20
miles round Ipswich.) He took early in
life to animal-drawing, studied in
bourne , 71' between Mel-
he sometimes regretted that the exigencies
™bs s r “dTon c T pel i ed h,m •» wS
thnG “W f ° r the P ur Pose of showing
points, he had no sympathy with
the conventional colored drawing— falsely lit
and over-accented. A realist by. character
and observation, Fry painted the horse when-
slttina a°nd ld b K relatlon to its - atmospheric
setting, and had many a wordy fight with
patrons over the reflections the glossy coat of
animal fakes from daylight.
Ut late years his work had improved un-
der ,the stimulus of commissions—his “Posei-
don will rank with Sheldon’s “Carbine”
some day -and though always a careful
draughtsman, an increasing sensitiveness to
color was merging the draughtsman in the
painter. ; He . was on the road to finer
things.
* * *
, His long, characteristically English figure,
alwaj s scrupulously dressed, and his cheery
good humor will be missed by his artistic
familiars, and. by many a sportsman. But
perhaps Bill, ’ his rough-haired terrier, will
miss him more than most; Bill, whose por-
trait in the last Exhibition of the Society of
Artists, was catalogued by his master as “My
Best Friend.”
L.L.
William Archer has examined all the
available evidence in the case of Ferrer, and
published the result in The Life, Trial
and Death of Francisco Ferrer (Dymock’s).
It is a judicial statement of the facts, un-
dertaken at the suggestion of McClure’s
Maga., and, though much fuller, it dpes not
affect the impression made by McCabe’s
Martyrdom of Fefrer. Ferrer’s influence
was injurious to the monarchy; it was de-
cided to remove him; a farcical trial was
put up, and a firing party turned a not ex-
traordinary man into a martyr with vastly
greater influence.
One of the illustrations to Archer’s book
show's Ferrer and his family at Bendigo
(Vic.) in 1898.
The second number of Lilley’s Magazine
is of much the same character as the first.
A fantasy by 11. McKay in the manner of
Poe stands out by length and quality. The
manager’s address *s now 66 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, and the subscription 6s. per
annum.
Art and Architecture, for May-June (W.
Brooks and Co.) has a good deal of interest-
ing matter about building the Federal capi-
tal, an article by W. Hardy Wilson on his
own collection of old furniture, and more
notes than usual. This journal is in its
eighth year, and improves slowly. If it ap-
pealed more strongly to art students—by
competitions, for instance—it would have a
much greater influence.
“Stingaree” : Hampton’s Magazine (U.S.A)
tor March, contains a short story: by Jack
London, entitled, “The Strength of the
Strong, ’ most of which is identical with one
• n or il s ,“ m an-mynkey” yarns printed
in Ihe Bulletin last year. Perhaps Lon-
don, in reading Australian papers when here
some years ago, secured material for other
stones which he will work up later on.
One Frederick Graves contributes a short
story to Nash’s Magazine for March, en-
Man-Ape,’’ wdiich is a piracy of
Miss G. B. Lancaster’s “Roof of the World,”
also printed in The Bulletin last year.
Graves goes one better than London by nam-
mg the heroine of his story Miss Lancaster,
lhis island evidently produces a number of
writers who are “devilish good to steal
from, as Hayley said of Blake.
FROM A PERSIAN GARDEN.
The sky is wide above,
Each star of the wide sky burns;
Starless am I until my soul, my love
returns.
The breezes of midnight
Lie with the perfum’d flowers ;
Wind of my soul, blow o’er me, that delight
be ours.
Fire on invisible wings \
In dusk of the leaves doth shine;
So shine thy locks, my love, when thy mouth
clings
to mine.
My body I have made fair
With fragrance for my love; \
Over my breasts the flood of my loosed hair
doth move.
With songs in the wine-flushed courts
Love flows engarlanded ;
Sweeter the grass dews are when love sup-
ports
the head.
I wake from dreams of thee,
I faint with my desire;
Soul of my soul, thy kiss consumeth me
with fire.
The burning stars are pale,
The long light quivereth;
Return, O soul of me, ere my sense fail
in death.
Beryl de Zoete —in The English Review.


JL
xu/e
No. 1061 — Oak Liquor Frame, First,
Quality Electroplate Mounts, 3 Cut Glass
Bottles, Handsomely Finished, with
Lock, 57/6.
No. 1024—China Biscuit Barrel,
Mounted Electroplate on Nickel
Silver, Choice Desi<rr., 10/=
w:
• , . ■
ssaa
w
iSS^e
uSHBBSp
No. 1025— Biscuit Box, Electroplate on
Britannia Metal, Chased Design, 32/-
No. 1013— Single Jam Dish, Electroplated
Frame and Cover, Crystal Glass Dish, Chased
Design, 10/6.
I
iH
ill
No. 1010— Tilting Kettle and Stand, Eleoti
plate on Britannia Metal, Riclilv Ena-rave
5 half-pints, 50/- ; 6 half-pint's, 56/-
Butter
Knife,
Electro-
plate on
Nickel
Silver, with
Silver
Handle, 3/-
Anthony Horderns’
FOR
Silverware Satisfaction.
No. 979—Toast Rack, Klc tio
plate on Nickel Silver, 14/=
No. lx— Flower Vase,
Electro ■ Silverplate on
Nickel Silver, with Opal
Glass Vase, 10/6.
No. 1010— Single Jam
Electro-Silverplate on
Silver Frame, Colored
Dish, 8/6.
Dish,
Nickel
Glass
No. 1047—Oval Entree Dishes, lOin. EKetro-
dl ate cm Nickel Silver, 56/» pair.
Sugar Basin and Scoon
Electro-Silverplate ori r
Britannia Metal, hand-
somely engraved, 18/6.
No. 994— Breakfast Cruet,
Electroplate on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut Glass Bottles, 19/=
No. 1071— Epergne, Electroplate on Britannia
Metal, Engraved Glass Vase and Dish, height
, about 18in,, 40/-
Illustrated
Price List
Posted Free.
I i
him
(i“i
Handsome Flower Stand, with 4 Glass Tubes,
Electroplate on Britannia Metal, 35/=
Butter Dish, Electroplate on Nickel
Silver, 9/9.
No. 993— Breakfast Cruet
Electroplate on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut Glass Bottles, 23/-
No. 1005— Butter Dish,
Electroplate on Britannia
Metal Frame and Cover,
Crystal Glass Dish, 12/-
No 1049—Oblong Entree Dishes, Electroplate
on Nickel Silver, 10in., Elegant Design,
75/- pair.
sugar Basin and Scoop, Electro-
hilverplate on Britannia Metal,
pretty design, 16/-
r/vs
No. 1004— Butter Dish, Electro-
plated Frame and Cover, China
Dish, 17/6.
Jam Spoon,
Electroplate on
Nickel Silver,
with Silver
Handle, 3/~
No. 098— Dinner Cruet, Electroplate
on Nickel Silver, Cut Glass Bottles,
4 bottles, 35/-; 6 bottles, 46/6.
Oak Biscuit Barrel, mounted Electn
Silverplate on Nickel Silver, 13/=
No. 1022— Oak Biscuit Barrel, Mounted Electro
plate on Nickel Silver, Chased Lid, 21/-
No. 996— Dinner Cruet, on Nickel Silver,
four Cut Glass Bottles, 20/-
1 No. 978 Tilting Kettle, Electro-
plate on Britannia Metal, Richly
Chased, 4 half-pints, 37/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßfield Mill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
CT'
m*
v
YSTERY
AMD
IRT/Vf
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOu’can be as clever and funny as he by .
lhe use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the fmure. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2 3.
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the ring's. Looks
so simple, yet. puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
r
r\
1/
The Wonderful Plate=Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they' sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting: fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET
SYDNEY.
\
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons’
Infants’ Powders
for the
little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fret-
fulness and the many
ailments common to infancy
Powders Recommended by H.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF HftHENLOHE.
VON-REUX LEBEN, Marshall of the Court to H.R.H. the Duke of Saxe-Coburg,
Duke of Albany, Winter Palais, Gotha, writes“ With thanks for your sending Infants’
Powders, I have the honour to let you know that the Powders are recommended
by H.R.H. The Princess of Hohenlohe, for my own children.”—January n, 1910.
ASHTON & PARSONS’
INFANTS’ POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless—they cool the gums—comfort the child—produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep- render teething quite easy—prevent pain and disorder—
are pleasant to the taste—are mild and gentle in action—may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe—and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
hfg
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
lI.RH. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOIIENLOHE
hg
DS? - Ashton & Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, i/xj; 60 Powders, 2/9;
100 Powders, 4/6. To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROFRnvpy&gr-ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED. LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
HAS MONEY TO LEND
Ci+ v S<^. U « OT J rreehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands *. o
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or TreasurvßMk on the Secunt»
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RAtls'of n^EREST
Oar new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the nriviWp nf ■
up to -20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or pavn.emi of anv
Directors—lhe lion. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J T Walker Dermrv Phii p • •
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M L c' • The Hon F V t
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece F I A PP 4 * M-L ‘ C-:
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’ iee ? T e - F A S - S -
-n. vv. AiiJLitLY, Secretaiy.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane,
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Directo
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
Will Anprape - BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
U) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Soekery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the otdy genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
V; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1 ; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stanups or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
STEVE, N S
New Visible Loading
Repeating Rifle No. 70.
The Most Accurate .22 Calibre Repeating Rifle Made.
Barrel rifled with slow twist, one turn in twenty-five inches. Weight 4* pounds. Handles fifteen .22
short cartridges, which are always in sight while being fed into chamber. Extra double extractors.
The No. 70 Rifle'is also manufactured for .22 long Rifle Cartridges.
The Stevens No. 70 Repeater is absolutely guaranteed, and bound to give universal satisfaction.
No. 70. Fitted with bead front and sporting rear sights.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [8
Miss
Amy
Willard,
who gives this
CLEMENTS
TONIC
testimony,
m
is well known to Sydney and Melbourne audiences as one of the
leads of the Willoughby Comedy Co. (Meynell & Gunn’s attrac=
tions). She writes to ailing women thus .....
“ CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“On account of Clements Tonic being used largely by the theatrical
as well as other professions, and through its being highly recommended
to me by one of the leading actors upon the Australian stage, I secured
and used it for several weeks. I was more than gratified, as the result
was a general improvement in soundness of nerve, natural and keen
appetite, sweet refreshing sleep, which was all the more welcome because,
often through continuous study, I suffered from insomnia and broken rest.
“To women, especially those weak-nerved, run-down in health,
anaemic, with poor appetite and gene al decline of physical strength, I
consider Clements Tonic a valuable medicine, for it gives appetite and
natural sleep, and is creative of sound and permanent health.
“(Signed) AMY WILLARD.”
. o
The testimony above is simply a message to women in ill-health that Clements Tonic is a reliever of many of
the ills from which they suffer, If used periodically, it keeps the system in order and makes Sick or Nervous
Headache, Insomnia or Broken Rest, Poor Appetite, Weakness, Morbidness, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and
Constipation things of the past. This is gratifying, for who does not weary of the pain that produces
melancholy, the suffering that creates despair—often penalties of neglect of natural needs of the body, the
refus d to keep the stomach healthy, the nerves strong, the heart sound, and the blood pure by the use of
this unquestionably splendid medicine. The medicine that gives health, gives life—and that medicine is
Clements Tonic. Get it, and get well. Every household should have it.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in the Commonwealth.


That
Little
Hacking
Cough
fh
Hard coughs are bad enough, to
be sure. But it’s often the lit-
tle, hacking, tickling, persistent
cough that means the most,
especially when there is a his-
tory of weak lungs in the family.
What should be done? Ask your
doctor. He knows. Ask him
about the formula on the label
of every bottle of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. Ask him if this med-
icine has his full approval for
throat and lung troubles. Then
do as he says.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U, S. A.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
GOLCRYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is
[2A
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
' Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
l Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
[latest
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. Write
at once, using - sufficient postage.
for Tree Art Catalogue and oue
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 280. LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILT'.NAN, Agent, 157 Clarence St., Sydney.
fg
UNIVERSAL
The name'Eley’
on any cartridge is
recognised by all
spor.smen the world
/ over as a hall-mark of
excellence and reliability
The * Universal* t2-Bore Cartridge
is one of the most popular of all
‘Eley Smokeless’— the popular low-
price cartridge
‘Eley 22 Rim Cartridge’— accurate
and clean
Obtainable thiough your Cuntnaker or Dealt'
> '
! .« UJ
fcd
f-V ,
lit
; - :
mm
Seethe ■
name
Eley’
on all
t ar-
trid^es
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
BONNINGrON’S WILL ANSWER YES
$
s
BONN'
M 055
IRIS?
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients dan
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BonningTon’s*' of 40 years fame.
BONNINCTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from- harmful narcotics.
Sold Everywhere.
I/O (EX 2/0.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
«9
%
OONH
rtoss
IRISH
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful links in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
hfg
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
Thin Women!
Would you like to
be Weil and Fully
Developed ?
&
/
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one
essential that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper
bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly
take from a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. . .
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural development
is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency.
Even though you have never, been full-bosomed, and although you
have been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting
disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
to normal.
There are, to-day, hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked, and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering l tie effects
of anaemia and defective digestion, who are now, for the first time in their lives,
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying- the full vigor of robust
' "manhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
“ Flesh-Food ** Treatment.
Many women whose furnres have been spoiled by maternal duties have been
entirely restored to splendid form, and flat-chested young women who suffered
'low development have had the fault corrected by this treatment.
Flesh-food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond
question, and its use is no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have
gained even up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measurement up
to eight and ten inches.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE!
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and develop-
ment, and will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to you free of
charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications
private and confidential. Write or call for full particulars.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY,
Rear Equitable Buildings. [lBO6
h
FOR ALL AGES,
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
pensable to invalids and the aged, and
provides a full diet in sickness.
fgh
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Milk
Co., Slough, Bucks,Eng.
MALTED MILK
SMOKERS
Can be Cured!
OBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless
I vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
the Nicotine Poison from the system.
FREE TRIAL.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a
trial package of this grand remedy, and also
our free booklet. Trial package often effects
a cure.
Frank Ford, Blackall Plains, Queensland, on
May 14, 1911, writes: —“ I was a smoker from 7
years of age, and am now 73. Your Tobacco
Specific has made a new man of me.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G.,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney.
£1573|1g(9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
o?. y .°.l The Wayback Series.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless and
cumbersome trusses? Do you want to obtain an
appliance that is not only comfortable to wear,
but one THAT WILL HOLD YOUR RUPTURE UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS? Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials regarding
our
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
which is somethin'; entirely new, is in fact. THE
BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE OF THE CENTURY. No
galling steel springs or chafing loath' r under-
straps. The pad is made of soft pliable rubber
which presses gently, yet firmly on THE CORRECT
SPOT. To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the reach
of all. Can yon nsk for more? PERFECT EASE
AND COMF ?RT FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE. An
appliance suitable lor men, women and children
Descriptive Pamphlet Posted Free.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Waternian's
(Ideal)
Safe§EPen
fg
SEALED
WHEN OPEN.
SEALED
WHEN CLOSED.
This is the pen you should buy if you
travel, or lead an active out-door life. The
chief characteristic of this “Safety ” Model
is that it cannot leak however carried.
When closed, one can throw it up, shake
it, turn it upside-down and still it will not
leak. Nor will it leak when open. In
all other respects it is equal to the
Waterman’s Ideal known the World over
as the Best Fountain Pen that money
can buy.
1 51- and upwards. From Stationers and
Jewellers throughout the world.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Steeds of the Mist.
Steeds, O steeds of the morning mist,
Whose halters none but the wind may twist,
Whose soft white flanks may feel no spur
But the breeze that is setting the woods a-stir;
O beautiful, silent, steeds of grey,
I will give you my heart to carry away!
As I stoop in the curve of your arching manes
I shall feel the tug of your silver reins ;
I shall see the foam on your rosy breasts
As the dawn dips under your splendid crests;
Though I know that your step is firm and fleet
I shall hear no sound of your gliding feet!
You shall carry me over the mountain bar
To the land where your breeding-pastures are,
Beyond where your squadrons blind the sun,
To the fields where the glittering moon-mists run,
To the forge where your hoofs are silver-shod
’Neath the anvil sparks of the stars of God!
O teautiful, silent steeds of grey,
You shall carry my wistful heart away;
As your shadows are lost on the mountain wall
So the shadow of grief from my heart shall fall,
And the peace of the skies shall be mine to share
When you cover my heart from its world of Care !
Scotland.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Aitermath.
My soul is sad, my thought is fixed
On one oppressive woe;
Unrest and dread in me are mixed;
I know not where to go
Since, lured by Love, to Death akin,
You took me out to take me in.
Were you as false as I was blind?
Ah, no! that could not be!
Methought that all in you was kind;
No more I eared to see.
Yet, though we never dreamed of “sin,”
You took me out to take me in.
We roamed the woodlands, you and I;
We loitered by the sea ;
The glories of the earth and sky
Were ours in simple fee —-
Great Nature did the work begin;
You took me out to take me in.
Oh, there is something in the hills,
The fields, the waving fronds,
That frees our speech, our looks, our wills
From artificial bonds,
And strips Convention to the skin:
You took me out to take me in.
The forests know, the shores proclaim
The notes of mighty Pan;
We heard his pipe and straight became
A Woman and a Man!
And where the god made merry din
You took me out to take me in.
Ah, too-deep joy that might not last!
Ah, softly-murmured vow!
Ah, prudence to the four winds cast J
Too late I.mourn you now.
’Twas I who lost —’tis you who win—
You took me out to take me in.
No more! My inmost soul is vext
At this oncoming woe ;
I care not what may happen next,
Nor whither I may go ;
Whatever web the Fates may spin,
You took me out to take me in.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
The Sins of Boogalook.
The curate, new to duty, blazed
Boldly away at sin, and shame. . ..
The congregation woke, amazed,
To hear their servant lay the blame
Upon their heads, with words of scorn,
Blasting the peace of that fair morn.
He was a beauty-eurate, brown
Of face, and sinew-strapped, and slim,
And quite a lot of girls looked down
And sighed, when they had looked at him....
And, after church, his bush-bred flock
Crowded around him, taking stock.
And one there was, no two-year-old,
A single, coy parishioner,
W T ho smiled, all crockery and g01d....
He raised his small, round hat to her
And bowed, by parson-duty bound,
His modest gaze upon the ground.
The lady beamed on him, and gushed,
And made a pair of roguish eyes.
She giggled then, and redly blushed....
“Your sermon gave us a surprise,”
She said. “We didn’t know, I fear,
What sin was until you came here!”
VICTORIA.
THE SHOVER.
The Slighted Menu.
Dear, when I look into your eyes
Across the pot plants sere and brown,
I check not suicidal flies
That strive within my soup to drown ;
The schnapper truly may be “Jew,”
Or tough as motor tyres the meat —
I only know that I’m with you,
And care not what I eat.
Antonio with ease may foist
His evil viands upon me,
The blackened “stak,” the casual “oyst-,”
The eyes of love unchallenged see:
The butter may be margarine,
The serviettes of dolorous hue —
Yet do I fear them not, Doreen,
When I’m with you!
Demetrius of the lowering brow
Hath given me of tea to drink,
That knoweth little juice of cow,
And looketh blacker far than ink ;
Yet is it nectar newly drawn,
Distilled from sweet ambrosial dew,
By Bacchus in the rosy dawn,
When I’m with you.
But when alone at night I dine,
Ah ! then they find me far from meek.
I curse them all for Dago swine,
And Greek awakened meeteth Greek;
Antonio cringes to my oath,
Demetrius flies to get my stew—
Yet, sweetheart, I’m polite to both,
When I’m with you.
N.s.w.
HORACE HALLORAN.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
1 * * » * T » .ti- tv?
" (■“ * V v v V." k )) »
iv f- ■%■ y. a A 4 V * <
WWil
CLOSED AS COUCH.
tzum&ed*.
■waa^**.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 JOs. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
—— SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion,
—— Kidney Trouble.
PAGE’S INDIAN COMPOUND
is the One Rapid Reliable Rheumatic Remedy.
SOLD BY ALL STORES and CHEMISTS, PRICE
Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
If not obtainable locally, Post Free from the Manufacturers,
PAGE 8 COMPANY LIMITED. 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
21 6
per
Bottle.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel. Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during- the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for’ motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H, BURGESS, Proprietor*.
Great Musical Innovation.
Two More (New) “BOOMERANG” Mouth
Oriran Types in the shape of the
“BOOMERANG GRAND” (48 Reeds),
Price 6/6 (New); the “MINIATURE
GRAND” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New),
Post Free to any Address.
WTERCHAMOEABie
!|Sj# parts
fggglvlEs?n^r
V ALBERT’S SYSTEM
These two new types possess already the great superiority of the “Boomerang” Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds, they at once
raise their bewitching harmony above the best reed-eombination. The sweetness and body of re-
sonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND” can only he equalled by the tuneful combi-
nation of the Harp and Flute. Try one, and the “BOOMERANG GRAND” ” will become your
inseparable companion. Try the 6s. 6d. one for preference.
The other five types of the “Boomerang,” Mouth Organs are still sold at the same old prices:
The Professional, 4s. ; the large “Boomerang,” 2s. 6d. ; the Miniature Professional, 2s; the Minia-
ture “Boomerang,” Is. 6d. ; and the Pocket “Boomerang,” Is. But, as said, the apex of musical
joy can only be attained with the “Boomerang GRAND,” the Mouth Organ of the future.
Wholesale 8 Retail from J. ALBERT 8 SON, 137 King St., Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or
N.Z. Postage Stamps).
VALUE IN CAMERAS.
Our Stock of Cameras comprise all makes
from the World’s Best Makers, including
“ Reflex,” Focal Plane, Field, Studio and
Hand Cameras.
Also
The World=famed
“ENSIGN”
ROLL-FILM CAMERA.
The “ last word ” in Daylight Loading
Roll-Film Cameras, and, like “Ensign”
Films, they are British Made.
Or.
HARRINGTONS
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.
LTD.
M
to
ow^ev-
ft
SCO
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhisky
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE —T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltino.
HOBART—John Ferguson & CoJ
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR IHE HOME
fgh
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay•
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
There are 30,936,000,000 Seconds
in TEN YEARS
AND WHEN YOU OWN A
COLUMBIA
Self-filling Fountain Pen
You get a Guarantee for every one of those
30,936,000,000 Seconds.
IT is a SELF-FILLER.
IT does NOT LEAK.
IT won’t SPLUTTER.
IT has a I4ct. NIB*
IT is Guaranteed for
10 YEARS,
and it costs
7/6
To
Every
Purchaser
of a
NON-LEAKING,
BRITISH-MADE,
SELF-FILLING,
14ct. GOLD-NIBBED
COLUMBIA
Fountain Pen
we present a document duly signed
by the Manufacturers
GUARANTEEING the said Pen for
10 Years.
Send a M.O. for 7/6, and we will
mail you. a COLUMBIA Self-filling
Pen as Herein described, and will
RETURN YOUR MONEY if you are not
satisfied.
&
CRAVEN TAYLOR & CO. LTD m 3 Sole Agents,
Dept. P., 226 Clarence Street, Sydney. Dept. P., 54 Bourke Street, Melbourne.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1040.
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1911.
Pkick 6d.
TEN MORE YEARS’ SLEEP. TEN MORE YEARS’ PREPARATION.
The Anglo-Jap treaty has been renewed.— Cable.
WHICH?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mris-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N, S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .... fi 6 0
Half-yearly .. .. . . 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
SiShillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/-’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse;
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 1116 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Holborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, lilil Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id.- — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Sioz. to
10oz., 2id; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d; elsewhere, IjOZ., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1911.
“FOREIGNERS IN THEIR OWN
COUNTRY.”
Over three hundred years ago William
Camden wrote in the preface to one of his
books,: —
If any there be which are desirous to be strangers
on their own soil and foreigners in their own coun-
try, they may so continue, and therein flatter them-
selves. For suchlike I have not written these lines
nor taken these pains.
A country is in a bad, not to say perilous,
way when, as was the case with ancient
Carthage and modern Korea, the bulk of its
inhabitants favor hired defence; or when,
like England, it has a vast pauper problem,
or, like America, a nigger menace; or when,
as in France, it suffers from a decreasing
birth-rate. And that nation is also looking
for trouble, which, like Australia, tolerates a
large body of native-born citizens who delib-
erately, in Camden’s phrase, remain “for-
eigners in their own country.” India, Cey-
lon, China, etc., are overrun with this type
of settler. But these are “nigger countries.”
The white foreigner visits them with the
frank object of tearing the largest possible
sum from the natives in the briefest possible
time, before hurrying back to civilisation.
The climate of these lands is liable to be bad
where it is not awful; the drainage belongs
to the middle ages, and so do the smells;
and consequently weird fevers, hobnailed
livers, and other calamities, afflict the Cau-
casian who inhabits them for any length of
time. If he is married he must send his
children away to be educated, for reasons
apart from the fact that white children who
are reared in “the East” (which is Austra-
lia’s North) often grow up frail and sickly.
And, above everything, the Eastern or tropi-
cal country cannot be the white man’s
Fatherland. Such traditions as it possesses
belong to its black or yellow inhabitants, and
whatever destiny it has to look to rests with
them. The case of Australia is different.
Climatically it is probably the most suitable
continent for the white man on earth. The
race does not degenerate physically here, as
is evidenced by the fact that the present gen-
eration of Australians, with a population
less than that of Greater London to draw on,
has beaten the world’s best at pretty well
every and pastime which calls for
health and strength. It is the easiest place
in the world to make a competency in, and
one of the pleasantest to spend it in. It has
great cities, gorgeous landscapes, stable gov-
ernment, freedom, even-handed justice and
the amenities of civilised life. When he
looks around him the Australian of to-day
has indeed cause to claim that he is a citizen
of no mean Commonwealth.
* * * *
Yet, after over a century, there are
still thousands of Australians who refer to a
country 12,000 miles away as “Home.” In
most instances they have never seen this
alleged “Home” of theirs. They are naively
ignorant of the circumstance that, outside
official circles, little sympathy is felt for
them in the place they call “Home.” The
prevailing sentiment among those English-
men who are not too absorbed chasing a
crust to think of anything, is that Austra-
lians are uncouth persons in impossible
clothes; “colonials,” hence of a different
caste from freeborn Britons. The Imperial-
istic Australian does not realise the lively
resentment which the intelligent Englander,
Big and Little, feels against this country
for its Defence policy of years past, by vir-
tue of which policy fervent (but inexpensive)
adulation of The Flag was offered in ex-
change for the costly job of policing these
waters. The old Defence doctrine, which is
still clung to in many quarters, could only
be held by folks w T ho are “foreigners in their
own country.” It is not altogether a ques-
tion _ of economy with them: they honestly
consider that their native land is incapable
of even beginning to Took after itself. In
view of statistics they do not claim that the
Commonwealth is numerically or financially
unfitted to do what the meanest S. American
republics are doing. Simply they contend
that, though Australians may be well enough
for guerilla warfare of the Transvaal variety,
their innate contempt of authority, their
ribaldry and general futility, render them
hopeless as serious guardians of anything—
which is precisely the point of view one might
expect to find in the white residents of the
nigger Republic of Liberia. A gibe fre-
quently thrown at the Frenchman by British
writers is that, whether he goes to Pondi-
cherry, or Jibuti, or Tananarive, he takes
Paris along with him. There is a type of
Australian who goes further in his efforts to
make himself an exotic in the country where
he earns his living. With a fervor that is
pathetic, he wears the sort of hats, clothes
and boots which the tradespeople tell him are
being worn in London, and if he can afford
it, he imports the articles direct. He eats
the food which the Englishman eats, regard-
less of climatic differences, and has it cooked
in the same way; if it were possible he would
imnort it ready cooked. And the social
touchstone he invariably applies to a new
acquaintance is: How close does he approxi-
mate in appearance, manner and the like to
an Englishman? All this would be no more
than an amiable weakness if it did not impel
its victims, by an inevitable process of
thought, to decry the goods of their own
country. Australian products are abused
in only one country; and that is Australia.
In America, manufacturers have been com-
plaining of late that locally-made blankets
are being palmed off on the public as “Aus-
tralian-made.’’ Yet hete, among the people
whose pride it is to be “strangers on their
own soil,” the conviction obtains that any-
thing made in this country must be rotten;
and the majority of traders pander to that
view, after the immemorial fashion of traders
since commerce began. It is natural that
people of this way of thinking should be
restless so long as they remain in the country
they d spise. For them, the Promised
Land is on the other side of the earth, and
the moment they can scrape together a for-
tune they make for the Golden Shore. Aus-
tralia is the one country in the world which
has been driven to impose an absentee tax ;
and it has done it largely because its Tooths,
Coopers, Wilsons and D’Arcys have for
decades used it as the European concession-
aire uses Equatorial Africa, namely, as an
uninhabitable region which is fit only to sup-
ply civilised human beings with dividends. One
rarely hears of an “ex-American” ; yet Lon-
don is full of folks who wear the label “ex-
Australian” with the utmost complacency.
And the Commonwealth is full of alleged
Australians who would be ex-Australians to-
morrow if their bank balances allowed it.
* * * •
Demonstrably the Commonwealth is
prejudiced in innumerable directions by
the native-born foreigners in its midst.
The genuine foreigner is apt to ac-
quire the damaging impression that they
represent a larger section than they
do; for they are a noisy crowd, and it
is to the foreigner that they delight to ad-
dress themselves. Since what has been
called the sincerest form of flattery is notori-
ously the variety that wins least respect from,
the flattered, the foreigner forms a low
opinion of the self-respect and patriotism of
the Commonwealth after. he has conversed
with a few of its embryo Coopers and Wil-
sons. The anti-Australian cult acts as a
chronic check on the formation of fresh en-
terprises, which is another way of saying that
it acts as a chronic check on population.
The vast sum which is withdrawn from the
Commonwealth annually by “ex-Australians”
does not begin to be compensated for by the
absentee tax, if only because it represents
the withdrawal of employment that would
absorb many thousands of defenders. The
miserable theory that Australians are incor-
rigible incompetents as regards the bigger
things of life —an argument which was more
successful than any other in holding up uni-
versal service and a local navy—is still ad-
vanced whenever a University professor, or
Itailway Commissioner, or Government
Architect is required; and generally it pro-
duces the desired effect, and someone is im-
ported from abroad to fill the post. No other
white country has a moment’s use for the
native-born who frankly owns that he is
only a citizen of that country until he can
amass sufficient to be a citizen of another
country. Australia regards this species of
calamity with such patience, not to say
pride and complacency, that the authorities
in Downing-street appear to be convinced
that these folk are our heroes ; as a result
of which delusion, when baronetcies and so
forth are going, it is not millionaire trades-
men of the Hordern type, who spend and
invest their money here, that are singled out,
but millionaire traders of the Tooth brand,
who treat the country as though it were a
plague centre. This is the only country, call-
ing itself a nation, which flies the flag of an-
other land over its schools and public build-
ings on festive occasions, and contains a con-
siderable section or gang that rages like the
heathen at every fresh effort that is made to
honor the local flag. In short, it is the only
country with a big class of well-to-do people
who are always “strangers on their own soil,
and foreigners in their own country.”
America has been threatened, at various
times, with a class of this sort, but, by ex-
hortation, ridicule and every other means,
the better classes have combined to keep it
small. Australia won’t be able to hold its
head up among the nations in an entirely
self-respecting manner till the native-born
foreigner is at least as rare in Melbourne and
Sydney as he is in New York ; or, in other
words, till in any given gathering of 100
moneyed Australians there are not more than
two bogus Englishmen.
A JOB CALLED WORK.
The assumption that the citizens of any
State are mostly persons in advanced stages
of dangerous lunacy is responsible for the
generally received statement that com-
promise is an essential feature of political
movement. Such a statement premises that
there are two parties in violent opposition
who are so biased on every question that it
is absolutely necessary to rest content with
half-truths and half-measures in order to
prevent general homicide and avert civil
war. Yet the alleged violent opponents are
able to eat at the same table, drink at the
same bar, and outside the political arena
differ little more in habit of life and thought
than Chinese cabbage-merchants differ in
outward form and essential flavoring. Fur-
ther, the theory of political compromise is
based upon the idea that every thing in the
world is already tolerably right, that social
injustice involves no suffering, and that no
reform is ever really pressing. The whole
notion of government by compromise is too
thoroughly and convincingly idiotic to re-
ceive serious consideration outside Parlia-
ment or an asylum for the mentally un-
sound. Yet this vain and sickly idea has
fallen like a miasma on the representative
chambers of the world, damping enthusiasm,
retarding action, and stunting national
growth and progress. The sturdiest and
healthiest democrats get the microbe into
their blood, and fade noisily away into mere
shadows of their former robust selves, while
reform moves on as slowly as the creation of
geological strata which owe their origin to
glacial drift and the settlement of volcanic
mud.
Closely associated with the idea of poli-
tical compromise is the practical operation
of the political job. A job may be defined
as a secret compromise by which a group of
politicians undertake to achieve a certain
purpose, and may be further described as
tne primal cell of modern Parliamentary in-
trigue which has the power of propagating
itself and creating an endless network of
similar cells. Thus, to take the simplest
possible example, the members for a dozen
disinterested constituencies pledge them-
selves to the members of a dozen interested
constituencies to secure a certain object.
They do so on the understanding that
those to whom they pledge themselves
will return the favor when called upon.
By their joint votes, or by their joint
influence on the Ministry of the day,
they make certain of the adoption of their
proposal, regardless of party lines, and
of ten regardless of both principle and expe-
diency. For certain reasons quite foreign
to the matter in hand, the Minister may be
glad to yield to their demands, although
those demands are enforced by the concur-
rence of many members who, if freed from
all restraint of intrigue or self interest,
would be themselves inclined to oppose the
very thin" which they help to secure. Thus
there are always jobs within jobs, and a
healthy and comprehensive job once started
is about as easy to stop as the notorious
chain-letters of begging experts, or a bush
fire in a 30-knot gale. As the first job
usually starts on the day on which Parlia-
mentary institutions are adopted by a
country, the cell tissue of jobbery is soon
pretty extensive. It grows on from genera-
tion to generation and from Parliament
to Parliament until almost everything
which calls itself political is thoroughly
incorporated with its complex organism. It
warps and twists Parliamentary work into
forms which were never intended by those
who originally shaped the policy, and it
brings to the ground houses of legislative
cards which have been laboriously built up
by enthusiasts in the cause of reform. In a
word, jobbery is the force within politics
which puzzles honest electors, and causes
religious patriots to swear over the frag-
ments of their broken gods.
Let it be said at once that a moderately
honest political job is conceivable. A
genuinely patriotic politician might take
hold of the instrument which lies to his
hand, and knowing that public opinion is
for the moment against him, inveigle, co-
erce, or bribe sufficient support to carry
through something which he is thoroughly
convinced is for the good of the country.
The politician who had thus contrived to
open Portland, Twofold Bay, Port Stephens
and Jervis Bay to develop increasing trade
on right lines would rightly have earned the
gratitude of all the years to come, and the
means by which he achieved his purpose
would have been forgotten or readily for-
given. Jobbery is in its essence wholly un-
ethical in that it is an attempt to defeat or
get behind the will of the people; but, con-
be prett, well £’ hlnLFTaJymni & in
other kind of job is as frequeAt as death
horse-racing or whisky. Often the Iffi hTn
source ot great personal profit to those en
gineering it; sometimes it is a nlain Z-
varnished theft of public money or property •
not infrequently it is perpetrated Kem
n™I U !i a t e interests of fat persons who are
mio aie( a ° Pl ace a solid cash value on every
vote, and on every pound of influence used
m pulling the necessary levers. The disre-
putable job affects all departments of public
activity From the alienation of C
Bands to the securing of suitable billets for
persons of narrow foreheads who are re-
lated to other persons of immense waist-
coat it covers the whole field. It is a plant
which makes vigorous growth in every land.
Republican h ranee and America know it as
well as monarchical Britain and Russia; and
transplanted to the soil of Australia it has
struck deep roots and put forth flourishing
blossoms whose scent lingers unpleasantly
in the public nostril.
Outside the sphere of politics the small
word job stands for something which is
profitable and desirable in that it insures a
certain monthly or weekly supply of coin
which, thrown like golden oil upon the
troubled waters of life, may give the thrower
a sate and easy passage without danger of
sea-sickness. The j'ob when thus regarded
is a thing often difficult to maintain; and
toe job-holder must develop the adroitness
or a tight-rope dancer in preserving his
balance on his narrow and precarious means
ot livelihood, or the adhesive qualities of a
postage stamp attached to an envelope
carrying the curt remark that immediate
payment will oblige. The job itself means
work, hard solid work, which in turn means
breakfast, a woman’s smile, and perhaps
some beer. And this job called work is the
biggest job of all, the most constantly in
evidence, and however objectionable in it-
selt, the most necessary to the well-being of
the State.
The simple monosyllable is thus seen to
be so variable in the meanings attached to it
that great misunderstandings must con-
stantly arise unless something is done to
straighten the tangled matter out. The
English language presents many analogies,
but no excuse for such confusion. A person
in politics may be described by one outside
that sphere as perpetrating a job, sticking
to his job, and working at his job ; and all
three operations, representing three distinct
kinds of effort, may be going on at one and
the same time. The job called work is by
far. the most important of all the things
which wear the brief name; but to restrict
the use of the word to describe this alone
would be difficult if not altogether imprac-
ticable. The only way in which it is pos-
sible to destroy a word, or the special use of
a word, is to destroy the thing for which
the word stands in a general or particular
sense; and the only way in which the job
called work can be secured in the permanent
occupation of the three strenuous letters of
its name, is by the abolition of every other
kind or job. As a practical proposition the
thing resolves itself into a fight to a finish
m which the job called work enters the
arena of politics and challenges every other
kind of job for the championship of the
world. The serious business of dealing with
pressing reforms is. enough to occupy the
full attention of legislators in every country.
I here will be no time left for the working
of jobs if Parliamentarians honestly work
at,their jobs with a full sense of responsi-
bility. The determination to avoid at all
hazards the job called work has been the
cause of nearly all the jobbery in the past.
In Australia, however, there is a big hope
that a change is coming over Parliamentary
method; and it is possible for the people
who do the voting to see to it that the hope
is fanned into the full flame of purpose. Let
the Australian people more and more insist
that a legislator is expected to give himself
whole-heartedly to the work to which he is
elected and for which he is paid, and lobby-
ing and intrigue will naturally disappear
from political life. Australia is a land of
ruggedly ornamental speech and tolerably
downright action, but its numerous Parlia-
ments —which cover most of the country
not occupied by sheep, Political Labor
Leagues and cows—are only slightly touched
bv national custom. A comparison of re-
sults with those obtained in other countries
affords proof that the toiler of this continent
puts in a fairly productive day between
breakfast and knocking-off tinje. Effort has
become a habit with us. And if the legisla-
tive bodies can only be filled with the spirit
of the country, the day is not far distant
when the job called work will at last come
to its own.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Respite?
The renewal of the alliance between Britain
and Japan may mean that Australia has 10
whole years to prepare for the trouble that
is surely coming; but it certainly means that
Japan may have 10 years in which to become
a more formidable adversary. Japan, which
has been in straitened financial circumstances
since the war with Russia, has submitted
perforce to a period of inaction so far as
colonial expansion is concerned; and Britain
—with a possible enemy at its front gate,
and a vast Asiatic territory to hold —is so
situated that the colored alliance has become
almost a necessity. But by 1921 the posi-
tion will have changed. By that time
Japan’s high tariff will have filled the coun-
try with manufactories, and its spell of finan-
cial depression will have ended. Its fleet
and army will have grown in strength and
numbers. Its population of 49 millions will,
in those islands where large families are the
rule, have increased out of sight. Fresh
territory will be as necessary as clothes for
a growing child. By all the omens Britain
will be a much less desirable ally in 1923
than it is to-day. If Germany forges ahead
at the rate it has maintained during the de-
cade, the United Kingdom will have all its
work cut out to attend to that rival in the
realms of trade and Empire. And there
are other possibilities. Japan may disre-
gard its treaty obligations altogether, as
many a nation with a higher reputation for


probity than Japan enjoys, has done in the
past; or Britain may go down before a com-
bination of European Powers. In either or
these, or a dozen other eventualities, Aus-
tralia will be called on immediately to stand
up for home and nationhood on its very own.
In the circumstances it needs to be unre-
mitting in its efforts to secure fresh popula-
tion, more ships, and an army that will
count. The nation will get scant comfort
out of hanging Bruce Smith in the scrub
when its homes are bursting, and adult in-
vaders are spanking its small-boy defenders.
Australian Universities and the Importing
Mania.
Melbourne University decided, the other
day. to have a Professor of English, and it
proceeded to advertise for one. Isow for the
past eight years Walter Murdoch who is
an old Scotch Collegian and an M.A. or
Melbourne University, has been doing (as
lecturer in English Literature) the whole
work required of a Professor ot English.
There has never been a hint, during that
time, of any incapacity in his part ; on the
contrary, a “round-robin,” signed by Mur-
doch’s old students who are graduates, was
recently handed to the Council by way of
testimony that in their view his work has
been done well. Yet, amongst those who
should know best, his chances ot getting the
Professorship are considered hopeless, the
notorious fact being that a powerful party
in the Council is frankly determined that
no local man shall have the Job. ™
docii’s supersession by an import, it it oc-
curs, will be a unique instance of official
perverseness as well as a horrible example ot
bad patriotism and a reflection on Austra-
lian Universities. Ten or 1-. years ago
Murdoch himself was wont to assail tnc
work of well-known Australian writers with
considerable vigor; to-day his attitude to-
wards Australian literature is sympathetic
or nothing'. The change signifies, _ among
other things, that he has come to view toe
local writer in a correcter perspective. He
no longer commits the error ot that Uxtoia
don who gravely contrasted and compared
Henry Lawson and Robert Browning.
And he is by so much the more valuable to
an Australian University. He has many
years’ experience of the local student and
the local point of view;. his English suc-
cessor will have those things to learn, Just
as Murdoch himself has had to learn them,
and it is extremely doubtful if, when he has
learned them, he will be as competent as
the man he displaces. For experience proves
the imported protessor to be a poor thing,
more often than not. For every MacCal-
lum, Sydney University has secured about
four oversea professors who were not worth
a fraction of their salaries. Several of Mel-
bourne University’s importations, especially
on the Science side, have been hopelessly un-
suitable. A recent appointment to a medi-
cal chair in this University was scandalous.
There were at least two men in Melbourne
of shining ability whose only reason for not
applying was that they were plainly warned
that it would be useless to do so. The
reason why the Oxford or Cambridge man
who comes out here is rarely of value. is
plain to demonstration. The British
scholar and teacher of conspicuous worth
has no need to expatriate himself. He finds
a market for his brains in his native land
where his family, friends, clubs and old
associations are. If the Australian material
offering were poor in quality, there would be
some excuse for the shamelesly unpatriotic
conduct of our great Universities. But all
the evidence is the other way.. There are
actually two professors of English in Europe
now—-one in England and one in Germany; —
who got their training here; and of distin-
guished Australian professors in other
branches of learning there are many. How-
ever, the pretensions of the Australian to
the Chair of Literature in Melbourne will
doubtless be settled before these lines see
print. But two other chairs—Philosophy,
rendered vacant by Professor Laurie’s
resignation, and Agriculture, a newly-made
Chair —will have to be filled at. the end of
the year; and if a healthy and vigorous pro-
test is not made, they will certainly be
handed to oversea mediocrities. The pro-
test had, therefore, better be put in train
straight away.
♦
A New Tory Ass.
A combination of Tory, “Liberal,” and
shandy-gaff political bodies is in process of
formation in Victoria, to constitute the Great
Organisation wherewith Labor is to be flat-
tened, so that obese persons may sleep in
comfort as before. The character of the
various bodies which seek to be united under
the protection of one great electioneering
money-bag is worth examining:—
(1) The Commonwealth Liberal party, a product
of the disgraceful times of Fusion, more or less suc-
cessfully captured by Alfred Deakin.
(2) The People’s party, a weak and nondescript
collection, consisting mostly of officers and com-
mittee. Formed towards the end of 1910, with a
milk-and-water programme, by a number of self-
advertising persons, who dreamed of hatching anew
Kyabrahmapootra in the Wimmera district. Feeble,
but noisy.
(3) The Women’s National League, a squealing
sisterhood, which has “Society ladies” at the top of
it, and is even regarded as fashionable in small
country towns. Dispenses tea, and still expounds
the myth of the busted Marriage Tie; but pays its
I CC (4) e The bwomen’s Liberal League, another sister-
hood, controlled by the relatives and admirers of the
inconsistent Alfred Deakin ; generally to be found
in hysterical quarrel with the National Tea-and-
Marriage-Tie League previously mentioned.
(5) The Farmers’ League, a venerable institution
with grass in its hair. It may not be included, after
all, for it shies wildly at association with any other
organisation, being afraid of the confidence trick
whenever it comes near a city. In the present in-
stance its fear is probably justified. .
(6) The Council of the Leagues, a few mysterious
persons who pull the strings, and who gathered and
spent the boodle for the Referenda campaign. They
represent the big vested interests which find the cash
for the political game.
Out of this exceedingly mixed lot will be
born a United Organisation, vowed to down
and damn Labor for ever and ever. Pohti-
cally, various parts of it hate the rest. The
two' female factions are as harmoniously
friendly as two parties of cats; and, on the
men’s side, Torydom is still hostile to
Alfred Deakin, because he revealed pro-
gressive instincts now and then in his fitful
past. There is no doubt as to the directing
forces which will run this clumsy machine.
It will work for Fat employerdom. Tat
employerdom will find the money, and will
demand (and receive) its money’s worth;
and, in the purchase, it is hoped that the
services of Deakin and all his former Lib-
eral companions will be included.
The Argument for Private Enterprise.
With the unveiled purpose of urging its
readers to barrack for the continuance of
private ownership in Melbourne’s tramway
service, the Argus lately preached an old
familiar sermon on the inefficiency of na-
tional and municipal Government methods
of business, as compared with those of a
profit-making firm or co. These sermons to
the effect that Socialism is uncommercial in
its soul, and that even the monopoly of a
Yankee trust could be more economically
cuuducted by a Napoleonic nigger-driver, are
as wearisome to the Democratic understanding
as they are convincing to the lory mind. Ot
course Private Enterprise is a slicker busi-
ness person, a more alert profit-maker, than
a municipal corporation. But that is no
more of an argument against the sub-
stitution of Socialism for Toryism thap
was King Solomon’s wisdom a justi-
fication of the monarchical principle. And
that admission may be made even if we
grant that the great commercial success or
Brown, Jones and Cos. is not necessarily
due to the firm’s lawful dishonesty and its
freedom from bowels of compassion, lhere
are firms that have a reputation for decent
behavior; but Private Enterprise js mortal,
and the decent firm or partners in a farm
may be buried, whereas the controlling Gov-
ernment never dies. Moreover, whereas
Public Enterprise has to be as decent as the
public choose to make it, the morals of I ri-
vate Enterprise (outside the business ot
public entertainment, perhaps) are not much
affected by anything the public may do or
say. Therefore, Private Enterprise s morals
in general range from bad to awful. Big
profits are unjustly acquired, labor suffers,
and needy people of all sorts are made more
needy by the enrichment of the few. xet
because the few are enriched, Toryism points
to the administrative ability of commercial
magnates and laughs Public Enterprise to
scorn. It conveniently forgets that there
are exemplary municipal enterprises, and
that the management of State business is
sometimes unimpeachable; and there is no
basic reason why it shouldn t always
be unimpeachable. The only visible ob-
jection to the Government as a commer-
cial boss is its benevolent custom of accept-
ing the Civil Service it has got instead of
trying to get it better. Private Enterprise,
on the other hand, insists on being well
served, and is apt to be cruelly hard on its
employees But the effect of this difference
of treatment is least perceptible in the com-
mercial branches of Government business:
the postman walks as briskly as tnough the
P.M.G. were managing for a private co.;
and the man in the State railway signal-box
is as alert as though he had Private Enter-
prise for a boss.
The Tasmanian Political Outlook.
The final session of Tasmania s sixteenth
Parliament opened on Tuesday. According
to the forecasts, the Government will ask
for supply'and get it; then an attempt wi
be made to secure an adjournment tor a
month or six weeks in order to give I vernier
Lewis time to get back from the Coronation
picnic. Minister for Lands Mean, who is
Acting Premier, has a strong nominal ma-
jority behind him (18 Ministerialists against
11 of the Labor Opposition), but he is a
cautious Scotch person who doubts his
ability to hold the party together for long in
the absence of the more patient and per-
sonally-popular Lewis. And he has some
grounds for feeling uneasy. The Ministerial
crowd is a Fusion, and four or five mem-
bers who joined without having any authority
from their constituents would not mind
something in the nature of a diversion on
the battle-eve. Besides, the Fusion has ac-
complished pretty well all it aimed at. It
has, in particular, kept the Labor party
out of office during the life of another I ar-
liament; so there is really no pressing ne-
cessity for further solidarity, and individual
members will now consider themselves free
to direct their remarks straight at the ears
of the electors. Whether the Assembly
runs its full course till next April, or
whether Ministers decide to rush the elec-
tions before the end of the present year, the
result will probably be about the same.
Labor’s overwhelming success at the last
Federal elections filled State Labor with
hopes of a majority at the next time of ask-
ing. But since Labor was fool enough to
vote for its opponents in the Referenda, its
viana has shrunk. Sixteen is a majority;
Labor now has 11; and the necessary five
new seats that once lodked easy now seem
hard. Nevertheless, Labor will set out on
wliat should have been the light task of
getting them by charging the Government
with general incapacity in reg'ard to admin-
istration, and insincerity in regard to re-
form. The Government will, no doubt, .rely
on its vigorous Public Works (borrowing)
policy and its conservation of the interests
of the Backbone; and it will retaliate by
charging the Labor party with confiscatory
intentions. The Labor party will, however,
be able to quote the damaging fact that las-
mania has been losing population at tne
rate of over 3000 a yoar for the last decade;
and it will ask the State whether, in view
of that leakage, it isn’t about time to try
some other poiiu.cal party. The Liberal
gag will, of course, be that population is
flying because of the dread of Labor legisla-
tion. That might cut some ice if the popu-
lation wasn’t flying to places where a Labor
Government is in power. N. S. Wales,
where the Labor party has been gradually
strengthening itself fpr 10 years, until now
it is on top, has in that period added
100,000 more people than Tasmania owns
altogether. The States which have gained
most by immigration are the States where
Labor Government is either actual or most
imminent. A few years ago. S. Australia
was in much the same position as las-
mania: it was steadily losing population.
Between 1881 and 1890 it lost 33,540 by sea
alone. In the next 10 years it gained only
1016 altogether. Then the State looked
kindlv on the Labor party. It tried a
Labor Premier in 1905, and except for one
small break, it has had no other brand ever
since. It reverted to the old kind in 19U9 ,
but after less than 12 months’ experience it
went back to Labor. And instead of people
flying from the country, there never was, m
all the State s experience, so rapid a growth
of nopulation, and the State never has en-
joyed such prosperity. There is no vague
prophecy about this: it is actual, demon-
strable fact, and the Tasmanian Labor
party ought to make the most of it in the
campaign that can’t be more than 10 or 12
months ahead, and may be made to burst at
almost any moment.
The Safest Crime in the Calendar.
In Australia a special Providence watches
over the individual who, by perjury or other-
wise, attempts to get inoffensive fellow-
citizen hanged or gaoled. The girl who
swears that she was infamously maltreated
by a total stranger the previous night, and
who subsequently identifies a reputable
family man as the offender, is a regular tea-
ture of our criminal courts: she is never
prosecuted when it turns out that hei al-
leged assailant was in another State, or in
hospital, or at a public banquet at the time
the outrage was reported to have taken
nlace. It is hardly ever suggested that she
should be prosecuted. And it is the same
in everv other class of case where a false
charge is laid, either from hysteria, or from
malice. Bathurst ('N.S.W.) suppl ed a hor-
rible example of this tendency the other
dav. Two constables named Michell and
Stiles, accused their colleagues. Sergeant
Sheeiiy and Constable Boon, of knocking a
local drunk about sp that he died. The ac-
cused men were given high characters by
their chiefs and by representative towns-
folk while the records of their accusers
were, to put it mildly, murky. The medical
evidence showed that deceased had perished
from alcoholism (he had swallowed half a
bottle of brandy and a whole Lottie of
sclinanps, neat, between 1 and 2 o clock of
the dav of his death) ; and, on the body
being exhumed, no traces of violence were
discoverable on it. A Commission, ap-
pointed to investigate the matter, exoner-
ated Siieehy and Boon, and left “the
Crown” to deal with Michele, and Stiles.
The way “the Crown” proposes to do it has
lately been made known. Miciiell has
been “dismissed from the force,” and Stiles
“has been asked to send in his resignation.”
Yet, if their scheme had succeeded, a couple
of innocent men would have been gaoled,
if they had escaped being hanged. The fate
of Miciiell and Stiles is the sort of thing
that encourages the slanderer to fresh ef-
forts, and sends the bearer of perjured wit-
ness on his way with a feeling of glorious
security about his person. The incomparably
more numerous citizen, who has no taste
for machinating against his fellow-man, and
who looks to the State to guard him against
the machinations of others, views the busi-
ness in a different light. As he looks at it,
these public menaces should be chased with
all the weapons in the Law’s armory. The.
spectacle of folks who should be advanced
on with a sharp and heavy axe being gravely
chastised for their misdeeds with a frag-
ment of thistledown, gives the plain. citizen
the tired feeling, where it doesn’t give him
the horrors.
+
The Doctors and their Unions.
“Os Tkalia” on the medical unions:—
“Os Junominatum” blows into the disturbance be-
tween the British Medical Association and the Aus-
tralian Medical Association, with a brief on behalf
of the former body (B. 6/7/’ll). Most of his figures
are vague ; but, anyhow, he estimates the membership
of the Australian association at a paltry 20, and that
of the N.S.W. branch of the conservative old British
association at something in the region of 800. The
“reputable” association he dubs the latter, and infer-
entially suggests that the members of A.M.A. are dis-
reputable. Possibly they are. But the writer has
never heard of a case where one “disreputable” has
refused to assist a brother medico in a case of life
or death —even when the officiating sawbones was a
member of the- —haw —Association. On the other
hand, is not a member of the B.M.A. absolutely bound
to refuse to meet in consultative work any medico
outside the 8.M.A., irrespective of ability, standing,
the amount of alphabet he can tack to his name, or
anything else that counts?
The fact of the matter is—and possibly Os Ju-
nominatum” is quite well acquainted with the fact
the B.M.A. is the citadel of medical snobocracy
and conservatism. Australia is turning out quite
enough successful medical students (physicians, sur-
geons, and specialists), from its own admittedly high-
class Universities, to successfully form a really
democratic body—one that can entirely do away with
the snobbish and conservative features of the English
association’s pup.
Now, what has the B.M.A. done for itself in the
Mother Country except preserve its alleged dignity
and professional etiquette? A doctor there gets from
the lodges an average of about Bs. per head per
annum. In Australia he gets about 16s. So if at
16s. in the Commonwealth the young man has to
“slur over his work, make a spot diagnosis (as often
as not wrong), and frequently give inadequate treat-
ment,” how does the old man get on at Ss. per head,
out of which he sometimes has to find the drugs tor
the “inadequate treatment of a spot diagnosis”? The
writer wishes to emphasise the fact that, he doesn t
consider the payment of 16s. in Australia too much,
but merely wishes to point out what the rate is in
the stronghold of the ruling body of the B.M.A.
“Os Junominatum” skilfully raises the question of
the minimum wage, to catch the eye of the unionists
who so frequently dominate the lodges, and attempts
to point out that'there are 800 members of the B.M.A.
“union” fighting against 20 “blacklegs.” It will be
well for all good unionists to remember that in the
first Australian industrial union that was formed there
were about 20 unionists —Australian unionists —fight-
ing about 800 or 8000 blacklegs. The unionists are
stronger now, but they are still fighting and the
writer guesses it’s up to them to remember then
fight, and at least give the little band of Australians
who are now trying to form an Australian medical
union a hearing. Acting-Chief Secretary Flowers is
the representative of unionism in its liberal sense
in the N.S.W. Parliament, and it is at least up to
him to give the members of this “reputable B.M.A. a
chance to show exactly how disreputable members or
the Australian body are. Anyhow, surely Os
Junominatum,” as the champion of unionism, should
feel no diffidence at the proposal of confronting a
blackleg before a Commission appointed by a repre-
sentative unionist Government, or, rather, a Govern-
ment that upholds unionist principles. The only
thing that he can possibly fear is that his union might
prove to be of the same species of democratic body
as the union that runs the Queensland sugar nubs, or
the International Harvester Cos., or some other such
organisation. Of course there is not so much cash
involved, but it might be just as disastrous to Aus-
tralians to allow one body—foreign at that —to
“corner” professional etiquette and dignity, as it
would be to allow another to “corner’ sugar or
P Vis not low prices the Australian body is fighting
for and, if returns were available, the writer opines
that it would be shown that the members of the
smaller body are not “cutters.” It is the conserva-
tive ideas that the Australian union is up against.
And it’s high time that some sort of a medical asso-
ciation was formed with rules and regulations more
in keeping with its democratic and progressive en-
vironment.
The land-hungry settler or would-be settler
isn’t getting tlie benefit that ought to come
his way through the Commonwealth land
tax because, though many estates are being
got rid of tor cutting-up purposes, the cut-
ting-up is being done by private speculators ;
and these people sometimes make as much
out of the deal as they paid for the pro-
perty. That is to say, the settler pays
about 100 per cent, more than he should,
and nobody gets much benefit except a
middleman. If there must be a middleman
in the business, it ought to be the State;
and 'in most cases a middleman does seem
necessary, because the big landlord won’t
sell except in a lump. The only way out of
the trouble appears to be to pass a law pro-
viding that no estate of more than (say)
£BOOO in value shall be sold unless it is
first offered to the State at the lowest price
the owner is prepared to accept from any-
body. That would mean that every large
proposed transaction between owner and
speculator would be hung up for, say, a
fortnight, while the State was deciding
whether it would exercise its option or not;
but that would not matter, because the right
of the speculator to complete the deal, if the
State turned it down, could be fully secured.
No doubt there would have to be provisions
to prevent hanky-panky between owner and
speculator; but something emphatic—for-
feiture of the nroperty on the one side and
plain, cold gaol on the other —would meet
a case of that kind. You can make men
fairly honest by Act of Parliament if only
you make dishonesty unpleasant enough.
♦-
The apotheosis of the divided-control curse
which afflicts Sydney is shown in the
squabble among the Woollahra aldermen,
with side-scraps in which Bandwick and
Paddington are concerned. Oxford-street,
which runs through these pocket-handker-
chief municipalities, is to-day a “perfect
bog”—a new kind of perfection surely.
Paddington and Woollahra have joint con-
trol of one part of this important thorough-
fare ; Randwick and Woollahra have joint
control over another section. The Railway
Commissioners sit heavily on the top of the
lot as tram owners. Months ago the joint
controllers decided that something should
Bull, the Euler.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I forgot this was England, where are only two
things—beer and Bible— Fortnightly Review, April
6, p. 61k.
Ills hand upon the continents, his ships
upon the seas, , , . , ,
Bull runs his Empire business whilst dole-
ful prophets wheeze; .
They moan of dread calamities, of fearsome
things to be — ... .
Bull steers his ocean-arsenals with loud
profanity. . .
His Empire mutters angrily from zone to
distant zone; , ,
Bull sits upon the safety-valve and lifts no
dismal moan. , .
He is the Person Arrogant—the guile where-
of he’s full , , „ ,
Conceals the primal cussedness of Beer-and-
Bible Bull!
His children tough and insular go forth to
many lands; .
They grasp the spoils Imperial with large,
emphatic hands.
Ilis Rhodeses and his Chamberlains and
all their lordly kith
Go bureling round the universe with com-
mon Jones and Smith ; .
A pack of dismal pessimists may wail in
anguisn dree — ~
Bull scoffs at all the platitudes of GUT-
TERSNIPE, M.P. .
There is for Bull one certainty—his credo
I admire — „ , ,
“Go out with cheerful fortitude and grab
what you desire!”
“My Bible and my bayonets shall keep my
coffers full,”
So saith the modern Testament of our par-
ental Bull.
Our parent most intrepidly exploits the
circling sphere,
His trust in God and gunnery, likewise in
British beer; ,
No Stiggins is our relative, though sundry
parsons wail, , . ... . .
And Nonconformist blatherskites like windy
plagues assail.
Our parent smileth inwardly— tis pagan
cheer and guile
Bull cloaks with sham humility, and so sur-
rounds his pile.
The ruler’s outward rectitude conceals the
primal man, . , ,
Who grabs with forceful promptitude and
keeps whate’er he can;
He is the thief most excellent —a pirate per-
son he, , , .
Who waves his useful Testament and steals
like you and me ! .
Our Bull is partly alderman and partly
buccaneer —
A burglar, stout, respectable, whom lesser
pirates cheer.
’Tis thus our Bull magnificent grows
greater by degrees —
Britannia is most certainly the Mistress ol
the Seize!
Bull has his Lords and Ministers, who
mind the shop at home;
Whilst Bull pursues the dividends, the
Commons kick and foam ;
’Tis part of Bull’s machinery—our parent
grabs the rent , . . .
Whilst noisy folks gesticulate and howl in
They spend their strength and energies in
pounding at the doors,
And Bull admires the candidate who leaps
and bounds and roars.
He is the useful blatherskite who keeps the
people calm — . . , ,
Who pours upon their discontent his wordy
streams of balm.
Our parent’s famed simplicity deceives the
careless eye; . RTnr
Beneath his seeming innocence lurks bull
the sharp and sly. .
He is an earnest cannibal who chews his
fellow man, _ ~ ~
And then “regrets the incident, as per the
British plan!
His Kings and Queens may coronate—
“ Amen,” says placid Bull ;
“This simply helps me decorate their eyes
with blesshd wool! „ ,
I’m free to run the business whilst cheering
crowds hooray;
Whet they are throwing up their hats it is
my busy day!”
His palpitating Bible-works and hustling
breweries . ~ .
Have made our British relative the Master
of the Seas. . .
He loads his ocean-arsenals with Christian
shot and shell, .
Which makes the heathen customer teel pious
—and unwell. ,
Ilis Empire howls indignantly, but still, lino
solid stone, „ , , c
Bull roosts upon the safety-valve that fizzes
’neath the Throne !
He is the Party Arrogant —all hail. deal
parent Bull!
We, too , have Bible-factories, and keep our
tankards full!
VICTORIA.,
GRANT HERVEY.


Maoriland has registered over 60,000
youths between 17 and 21 years from whom
to cull its Defence Force. The training is
to start in September next. Ten youths
have been sent over to the Australian mili-
tary College, a dozen up-to-date 18-pounder
quick-firers have been ordered for the artil-
lery arm, and Commandant Godley is satis-
fied that he will soon be able to hammer his
raw iron into a sharp sword.
Andy Fisher refused a D.C.L. degree pos-
sibly because he knows millions of people
daily acquire D.C.L. wisdom without want-
ing to advertise their good sense to the
world. After all, it is a wise man who
knows that his wisdom can be inspired to
its best and brightest by D.C.L. the Whisky
of the Wise.*
Attention is drawn to a notice in another column
where tenders are invited by the Melbourne Harbor
Trust for the supply of 1200 piles and li million
feet of sawn timber.*
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
OEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
*-* second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get in to communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
MORE EVIDENCE.
Mr. T. Duneen, Cairns, Q., writes
“The ‘INVINCIBLE’ Motor, manufactured by
you, has turned out very satisfactory. Thf
weather has been very rough since we ‘installed
your , engine, but we have never had the slightest
trouble, either in starting or running. Our boat
is 35ft. long, beam, 9ft. 6in., and the average
speed is eight knots in all kinds of weather. We
can highly recommend your engines to anyone
going in for a motor-boat, and we are sure they
will find them all that we have said.”
INVINCIBLE Engines are Guaranteed for
Five Years.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works: WOOLWICH DOCK, SYDNEY.
Showrooms : 35 Pitt Street, Sydney: 519 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne ; Bank St., Adelaide.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lily of the
Valley
Natural.
Night-
■ Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes char in
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
M
mwm
7
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
be done to repair the road. The Woollahra
mayor made an appointment with the Rand-
wick mayor about it. The former didn’t
keep the date, and the latter got the huff
and wouldn’t make another appointment.
The town clerks and the staffs are now-
standing up to their knees in mud on the
dividing line in the middle of the street
blaming each other for the delay and the
filth. Meanwhile, Latimer, M.L.A., is call-
ing on the people of Woollahra to “rise in
their wrath” and do something, while the
attitude of aldermen appears to be to shout
loudly and violently to each other that, at
whatever cost, they must not have a Greater
Sydney, which would ruin the suburbs, let
their roads, kerbs and gutters go to pot, and
deprive 800 or 1000 aldermen (it may be
2000 — The Bulletin doesn’t rightly re-
member) of their petty honors and dignity,
and 40 (or perhaps GO) mayors of their
robes of office and the run of the little locker
in the mayor’s room.
In consequence of her plan to arrange an
arbitration treaty with the United States,
Britain has made an important modifica-
tion in the treaty with Japan. It is now
agreed that neither country need come to
the assistance of the ally in war, if the
country has an arbitration treaty with the
State whom the ally is fighting. In plain
English, this means, that, supposing the
arbitration treaty to be concluded, Bri-
tain is not bound to fight with Japan
against the United States. Tardily Bri-
tain has remembered that her place is among
the white nations, not among the yellow
or the brown. In 1905 she practically
sold herself to brown Japan for the sake
of black India. Having been frightened
by Germany in the European seas, she left
herself without naval power in “the East,”
and with little military power, too; there-
fore she contracted that if she were at-
tacked in “the East,” Japan must come to
her aid; if Japan were attacked, then sue
was at Japan’s disposal. Definitely, she
said that if the white man fought the
brown, she would forsake tne white race;
and she did so because she feared that she
was unable to defend India and herself at
the same time. In 1905 Japan’s risk was not
only a renewal of the struggle with Russia.
Her troubles with the United States could
be seen plainly enough by diplomats. The
Briton knew, and the American knew, that
the_ shameful bargain meant putting the
white Englishman alongside the brown Jap
if the white American raised his fist against
the latter. Now that the American Arbi-
tration Treaty seems possible, Britain has
learned to blush faintly at her six-year-old
action, and has undertaken not to commit
the unspeakable outrage of fighting with
Japan against America.
The Melbourne Shop Assistants’ Union,
having obtained the Saturday half-holiday
without bringing ruin to the bosses, are now
agitating for 9 o’clock closing on the late
Friday night. The demand seems reason-
able; a 9 o’clock limit would merely require
a little more spryness from dilatory members
of the eleventh-hour persuasion. But if the
Law consents to deal fairly by shop assist-
ants for the sake of the public health, it
should extend its paternal interest to whole-
sale warehouse assistants, who belong to no
union and are worked to all hours of the
night on the tea-money system. The fact
that they ought to have a union of their
own is a bad excuse for the Law’s non-inter-
ference on their behalf. It may be a good
excuse for Trades Hall sneers at “superior
workers” who stand outside the pale of
Labor, but in the eyes of the Health
law all citizens should be equal. A shop-
keeper is debarred from keeping a clerk
chained to a cash desk after the lawful
closing hour, whilst a warehouse-keener is
at liberty to follow the unwholesome devices
of his own heart as regards the pallid type-
writers in his basement premises. The Law
strikes one as being less of an ass than a
humbug in these industrial matters.
•>
From a correspondent at Vladivostok: —
Russia has a problem in its Far East akin to Aus-
tralia’s own problem in its Far North. That is to
say, the Manchurian territory is handier to the
Chinese millions than it is to the bulk of Russia’s own
white people. It has, consequently, been over-run
by coolies, who have been giving the authorities
great trouble. Finally, the dreadful outbreak of
pneumonic plague, with awful mortality in Ilarbin
and other Russian railway towns, has worn out the
patience of the Governor-General. General Gondatti.
An order has consequently been issued for the whole-
sale expulsion of the Chinese.
The task is formidable, as the invaders number
100,000. In Vladivostok alone there are believed
to be 50,000. Registration has been tried, but has
failed utterly. Often one passport did duty for 20
or 30 men, being passed on as necessity demanded.
The cheap yellow laborers have driven all Russian
workmen out of the country, except the mechanics
employed at the Vladivostok arsenal. There is not a
Russian carpenter, bricklayer, stonemason or plas-
terer _to be found in Vladivostok. Russia realises
that it must have white defenders here; so on March
20 the reinforced police began collecting all Chinese
without passports, those without visible means of
support, and those who lived on the proceeds of vice
and gambling. As they were collected, they were
marched, surrounded by troops, to a depot, pending
deportation to Chefoo. Those who are permitted to
remain must take out new passports, and have their
photos, profile and full face, pasted on the inside
cover. Jn addition, they must wear a metal bracelet
on the right arm and carry a lantern when walking
the streets after sundown.
To replace the deportees, Russian workmen are
being sent out by special trains. Last week 1000
arrived here, and are being fed and quartered by the
Government until work is found for them. It is a
costjy business; but it is cheaper, the Government
sees, to garrison this Far Eastern possession with
white workmen and their families —these are “one
baby a year” people—than with celibate soldiers.
And some sort of garrison there must be.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Lyons Mail.”
Royal “ The Balkan Princess. ”
Criterion “Sergeant Brae.”
Adelpiii “ The Mother of His Child.”
Tivoli Rickard-*’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Claciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK.
Princess's “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “The Witness for the Defence."
King’s “ The Man from Outback.”
Opera House H. Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciariu.m Ice Skating.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
To-morrow (Friday) night “Hamlet”
will retire from Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
trailing clouds of glory in his wake, arid
“The Lyons. Mail” will be delivered the
next evening. This play, which was one
of Sir Henry Irving’s favorites, not only
reeks with crime and thrill, but supplies
H. B. Irving with un opportunity to play
two stout parts.
HOW THEY SING OF LOVE AT THE
TIVOLI (SYDNEY).
Whilst “The Gay Grisette” was running
in Melbourne two Colonel Pom Poms lived
and fooled and sang their fetching song of
“Gingali” ; and now in Sydney, at the Cri-
terion, there is a Pom Pom No. 3. The first
of the trio was Danby, a diminutive come-
dian full of sciatica and throat complaint,
who had been introduced to Melbourne as
the wandering showman in “The Gay Gor-
dons.” Danby met with some little mishap
on the stage, after which his physical ail-
ments got him fairly down, and he was laid
aside for repairs. For many weeks he tot-
tered around Melbourne in receipt of his
salary (said to be £35 a week) ; but finally
the little naan accepted a big lump sum from
the C. and M. management, and returned to
England to get his health back. Meanwhile,
Tom Graves had taken his place as Pom
Pom; but Graves was somewhat tall and
non-aggressive for the part (comic colonels
are expected to be small and snappy), and
is much better placed as the mild cleric. So
Percy Clifton, late of “The Arcadians” Co.,
is Pom Poming, and no doubt will keep on
doing it till “Sergeant Brue” orders tne
Grisette off the stage at the end of this
week. Clifton is almost as short as Danby,
but is otherwise different. The three men in
the one part have various manners of fool-
ing, but in each case the effect of the “Gin-
gah” song, with its quaint, gentle melody,
has been much about the same. There can
be no variation in the flavor of Gingah, and
no capable comedian can miss its pungency.
** * *
“The Balkan Princess” threatens to out-
rival “Our Miss Gibbs” as a Critic’s Bane.
Nothing happens to shows of this class save
packed houses ; their record is a dull story
of unvarying success; the only sensation
they ever know is when one of the stars
gets- three encores instead of two. It is
satisfactory from the point of view of the
management, but it is a disheartening state
of things for the ink-smeared paragraphist
searching for some new thing to say.
** * *
“The Mother of His Child” is appar-
ently a lesson on the advantages of a vege-
table diet in a country that needs popula-
tion. Jane Buckram is a vegetarian, and
enforces her boiled cabbage and other in-
digestible principles on Diggle when she
marries him. Then twins happen. At that
point Jane seems to weaken on vegetable
goods, and Diggle is cordially encouraged
to eat meat and other savage foods. Cer-
tainly Diggle and his wife are only the
“comic relief” part of the business ; but the
serious side of the new Marlow show is
merely the usual tears and grief of a
wronged woman who is stopped from
marrying a Salv’army captain by a mili-
tary officer —wicked, of course —and sinks
from comfort to poverty. She is helped
out by the officer, but can’t be happy, and
the Adelphi audience has an hour and a
half of beautiful wet misery in her com-
pany. Of course it clears up in time for
the last act, and the audience gets home
without having to put on its goloshes.
* * * *
Nellie Fergussou, as Mary Holford, pro-
vides the necessary tears and groans. Her
sister Louisa (Louise Hampton) tries to
cheer her and the audience; and Ethel
Buckley and Wilton Welch have charge of
the vegetables and twins. Cecil Manner-
ing is a conventional military villain, rather
better than most could be. Robert Inman
as David Grant, tne Socialistic Salvation-
ist, easily holds the first place in the cast.
The scenery and mountings are, as usual,
all right.
* K *
The Tivoli programme is full of large
capital letters this week. Keldine and
Ivlimo, trick cyclists, easily out-Brennan
Brennan-of-the-monorail, and provide a mix-
ture of fun and sensation. Over Alcide
Capitaine, “the perfect lady gymnast,” this
paper had a Sabbath argument with itself
as to whether it was the lady who was per-
fect or the gymnast. The argument ended
in a draw after dinner. Spissel Bros, and
Mack and their little pantomime; Binns
and Binns, humorists and musicians;
Fanny Powers; Francis and Alfred: the
Australian Dartos, and the Lillies —who
prove that two into one ivill go—all have
large black letters in the second part of the
programme. For a few weary remarks on
the first part see any Bulletin of 10 years
ago.
** * *
. Among the new sensations at the Na-
tional Amphitheatre this week are a lady
and gentleman named Vagge. As expert
ball-punchers the Vagges lose Tommy
Burns, and have the sable outrage from
Texas licked to a frazzle. Millie Doris,
eccentric comedienne, is another new-comer.
Her turn is what was known among the
Amphitheatre patrons of Ancient Rome as
“sui generis.” It is doubtful if there is any-
thing else like Millie on earth. On Monday
night her effort earned her a sentence of
seven recalls.
** * *
The coming Coronation pictures throw
their shadows on the screen. The Sydney
Lyric this week showed the manufacture
of the mugs with which little John Bull-
calf was to be rewarded for his patience in
listening to long, stodgy “loyal” speeches;
the Colonial No. 1 had a fine picture of the
making of the fireworks; and the Colonial
No. 2 filmed the procession to St. George’s
Chapel, where the Prince of Wales was
Gartered. For to-night and some other
nights to come the Lyric programme will
include “Scenes in Malta,” and the popu-
lar “Cowboy and Indian Frontier Cele-
brations” ; the Colonial No. 1 will go for
“A Trip to Morocco,” and the Colonial No.
2 will see the sights of Russia.
* * *
At. the organ end of Melbourne Exhibition
building a crowd gathered last Saturday
night to welcome The Choir which an enter-
prising musical Imperialist has shepherded
hither from Britain. The attendance, pre-
sumably, was satisfactory at the prices. It
would have been too big for the Town Hall;
all the same, an array of empty benches,
stretching away back to the main entrance,
looked rather like a satire on the managerial
expectation that the public would pay 2s. Gd.
for seats far beyond reach of the solo voices.
In a performance, of “The Messiah,” or any
other oratorio, soloists must be very effective
if the long entertainment is to hold a mixed
audience to the end. The critical, as well as
the godly, have to be catered for. On Sat-
urday, a number of sinners, from even the
front seats, retired at the half-way interval
without waiting for the Hallelujah Chorus.
The hour was already past 10, and the
soloists lacked compelling force. The pure so-
prano sang through her teeth, with vague en-
unciation ; the contralto or mezzo had no range
or strei (h of voice to speak of; the slim
basso, although stouter in tone, had an arti-
ficial method of producing his notes. The tenor
alone was naturally melodious, and always
keen-edged in diction, and his singing—sym-
pathetic and robust in a small way—inter-
ested the front seat-holders. Take them alto-
gether, the principals seemed unworthy of
the support at the back of them; for the
choir is an admirable combination of 200
voices, not very mighty in volume, but sweet,
polished and full of vivacity. Two hundred
Australian voices, equally well practised and
conducted, might be more impressive; but
thus far Melbourne has not heard the choral
music in oratorio so brightly rendered bv
local musical societies as by this swarm of
visitors. And that’s all about it.
* * * *
Nobody would expect the Sheffield Choir,
more than another, to put holy warmth of
expression into its work. The words of the
text were crisply and clearly enunciated, but
in the very nature of such choral numbers
there is an antipathy to soulful phrasing and
feeling. The voices have to sing “Ail we
like sheep have gone astray,” as though they
were stating, good-temperedly, “All we have
missed the ’bus.” So one gets no religious
inspiration from the Sheffield Choir in ora-
torio. None the less, one is glad to hear
these 200 pilgrims of concord pass (with
honors) a viva voce -examination jn the art
of choral warbling. They perform this
(Thursday) afternoon at the Town Hall, and
again at the Exhibition in the evening ■ and
on Saturday they conclude the Melbourne
session with two miscellaneous concerts
** * *
_ Concerning “Our Miss Gibbs” at Her
Majesty s it seems enough to mention that
the unconventional little milliner i s still
there. The advt. declares she has Come to
Stay, which seems unnecessary under the
circumstances. L
* *
there is good business for
The Witness for the Defence,” and the bill
is being renewed for another week, anyhow
, 11 s t impressions of the show are continued
by a second seeing of it. An unconvincing
play is well acted and elegantly staged, and
made til look a better piece of work than the
dramatist deserves credit for. The action
comes least naturally to the three characters
who are in love, and the general effect of
their lapses into improbability is irritatingly
telt, like crumbs in bed. But some people
are too sleepy to trouble about crumbs in
bed, so they accept this tragic comedy as a
grave study in human nature, which has the
rare virtue of presenting the heroine with
two husbands in the course of the plot. As
wife, widow, and wife again (the period be-
tween her widowhood and second marriage
being < represented by the dropping of the cur-
tain in the middle of the second act), Miss
Ethel Irving gets a series of situations
wherein her art of acting and clothing the
character is just beautiful.
** * #
To-night (Thursday) sees the turning of
Lovers’ Lane” at the Princess’s, and to-mor-
row will bring the last of a pleasant little
season. The Plimmer-Denniston Co. has
introduced two sentimental plays, and one
remarkably promising young actress —Lizette
Parkes—to Melbourne notice, and will depart
with the credit of having revived “Airs.
Tanqueray.” Mrs. Brough is to reappear
as the interesting Paula on Friday night
only. On Saturday the amateurs will produce
“Miss Hook of Holland” for a week’s run,
and the sweet strains of “Veronique” will
make a charitable appeal in the same theatre
on the Saturday following.
At the King’s “The Man from Outback”
is again presenting the Anderson Co. in a
drama, of love and cattle-lifting. Roy Red-
grave is the hero, who hunts the thieves with
the splendor of a Sherlock Holmes. He
makes the chase, extraordinarily protracted,
and naturally gains credit for craft and wis-
dom through a habit of missing the obvious.
Ned Duggan, sooner than copy the best
models in . the art of murder, tries to cook
the hero in a burning hut. The result is
disgraceful, for the hero emerges without
any of the appearance of the savory joints
under which the boards groan at cannibal
feasts. Rutland Beckett is Duggan’s partner
in crime, and mingles villainy with melan-
THE HAMLET BOOM.
“There by the sea stands a small Hamlet."
Any young lady's novel.
cholia. Bert Bailey and Temple Harrison
have their usual contract jobs; and Miss
Duggan, as Mona Maitland, prattles grace-
fully of the higher love, food, and bush at-
tractions, and dresses so sombrely that one
begins to fear she isn’t quite herself. Miss
Erris takes refuge in the part of a Sydney
belle; and Misses Bryer and D’Alton also
speak.
** * *
Saturday’s programme at West’s, Mel-
bourne, included a study of Anagni, the
Italian city noted for its age and religion.
The town is full of pleasure for the artist;


HUNTER STREET HOWES
WHERE THE
90/- SAC SUIT
COSTS YOU
8510 CA^H.
SAC SUITS from 4 to
5 Guineas.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
ifrom 6 Guineas.
08
fJM
Only Address: CORNER GEORGE and HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND
■ ■■
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
but not even photography can hide the fact
that where the painter sees pictures the
tourist finds dirt. “The King and His
Troops at Aldershot” is mostly a study of
the monarch doing nothing in particular with
distinction; while “A Knight of the Road”
provides glimpses of the Yankee hobo who is
tireless only in the art of dodging work.
** * *
“The Maid of Niagara,” which was filmed
at the Prahran Lyric (Vic.) on Saturday,
told a tinted story of heathen love inter-
rupted by crazy customs and bits of argu-
ment. “The Heiress’s riot,” which also
ran, described the diversions of a mistress
and maid ; and another picture of the Lon-
don Zoo gave more snapshots of queer beasts.
The best photo-play of Saturday’s series
was “The Masked Ball,” in which a king
seems to find the Seventh Commandment
something of an inconvenience.
“THE WITNESS FOR THE
DEFENCE ”
at Melb. Royal.
STEPHEN T. EWART
(leading man of the co.)
as
HENRY THRESH.
PLUMPTON J.
WILSON
as
HAROLD
HAZLEWOOD.
At the Opera House the gallery seems to
be rejoicing over the return of Arthur Croxon
after a long absence ; yet Croxon continues
to strike this journal as a crude comedian,
with weak ideas of mimicry. Scott Gibson,
who wears a kilt and tartan trimmings, has
a genial voice and a fairly braw sense of
humor; also he makes tuneful reference to
the lassie who loves him not- Lamberti has
added the late Svengali to liis list of Masters
of Music; Miss Charmeroy is wearing an-
other brilliant frock; and Alf Holt,
Reicken’s Dogs, etc., continue as before.
Next Monday the house of Rickards will be
one of the places where the Coronation
Pictures take the screen.
** * *
Leonard Borwick, who looks a cross be-
tween R. L. Stevenson and Mark Twain, is
playing the piano at Adelaide Exhibition,
which is not at all suited for that kind of
performance. Into the Royal has come
“The Woman in the Case,” a much worse
female than ever was “The Bad Girl,” who
has gone out. The sensational and very
American drama is brilliantly acted by
Mabel Trevor, Elinor Foster, Kay Souper,
and a strong co. At the Tivoli, the Perezoffs
continue to make a mad meal at Maxim’s;
the juggling is dazzling, but some of the
simplest tricks with plates are the most
striking. Cadwall and Verne have _ just
come in, and Daly’s eccentric dancing is an
asset. The Empire is starring an “Old
Curiosity Shop” film, Wondergraph oscil-
lates between botany and Parisian melo-
drama, and West’s, is chiefly American,
plus a superior pantomime show, “The
Pageant of Empire.” And the Vitoscope—
well, the Vitoscope has attained to the dig-
nity of being fined for overcrowding. The
chief dramatic item in a quiet week was
amateur—“ Cousin Kate,” by the Appen-
dreena Society. Len Chamberlain and Miss
Ethelwyn Robin gave a finished rendering
of the gentle humor of the piece, and were
well supported. There was a distinct
cricket flavor about the cast, for Chamber-
lain is a prominent State XI. bat, and the
girl he was engaged to in the play is Clem
Hill’s sister. •
For all practical purposes it doesn’t mat-
ter half a brick whether Riverina belongs to
Victoria or N. S. Wales; but, if Willie
Watt’s claim were to succeed, a dreadful
complication would ensue over the Federal
territory, which the Constitution says must
be in N. S. Wales; for the excision of the
disputed province would bring nearly half
the selected territory, including the water-
shed area, into the Murray State. The claim
is a long way from succeeding as yet, but —
the gun may be loaded.
AT POVERTY POINT.
There’s an honest simplicity about the little cir-
cular which director Charles Harriss issued by the
hundred to “Members of the Imperial Choir,” by
way of urging them to renewed exertions. Some
extracts: “Sing'for your very lives to-day.” “Keep
your eyes fixed on me.” “Give me every ounce that
is in you, and I will lead you to a triumph such as
no choir in the,, world has merited on a first appear-
ance.” “Let nothing distract your attention, no
matter what happens.” “If any members are taken
ill, stewards will attend to them. You must take no
notice of any such happenings.” Only a truly en-
thusiastic and humorless musician could have warned
his choristers, in cold print, that they must leave
sick fellow-travellers to the care of the stewards.
“Martin Luther”: My attention was first drawn to
the Sheffield Choir by a window card titling itself
“Musical Festival of the Empire,” with a photo, re-
production of Dr. Charles Harriss standing in a
snowstorm; and, below Harriss’s photo, (you’ll get
through this if the S’s hold out), is a remark that
Harriss’s “Musical Reciprocity Propaganda Encircles
the Empire.” This started me inquiring what a
“Musical Reciprocity Propaganda” is. I think it
means that the members of the choir receive no
salary, and that the Yorkies in each town board a
good many of the choir for nothing. In one Maori-
land city, the Harbor Trust lent wharf-sheds free, so
there was no theatre rent to pay; and then they
secured a timberman to seat the place without money
and without price. Anything would pay under those
circumstances. But where’s the other end of the
reciprocity? It recalls the Fisk Jubilee Singers.
They alleged they were singing to make money to
take Uncle Tom out of slavery, and buy new wings
for little Eva, and build a new university which would
teach Pompey his wrongs. I don’t know how Pom-
pey got on; but some of the Jubilee singers haven’t
worked since.
Ethel Irving sets a , good example in artistic re-
straint by refusing to acknowledge a “reception”
when she makes her first appearance on the stage.
She glides—as easily as limbs can be glid in a
hobble-skirt—-to the back of the scene, and proceeds
to business, with her back to the applause until
silence has been restored. Again, at the end of the first
act, which closes with the suggestion of an impending
tragedy, there is no acceptance of a recall. Stephen
Ballantyne is subsequently stated to have been shot
dead by his wife immediately after the curtain fell;
therefore the screen isn’t raised on a picture of the
unhappy pair smiling from the centre of the scene of
blud, and shaking hands with one another after the
manner of deadly enemies in grand opera who have
just completed a duet. Possibly a broad Yankee notion
of deepening the illusion would be to fire off a
cun behind the curtain, as an announcement that
Stephen had found the bullet he was looking for.
But it wouldn’t be- artistic.
New York Morning Telegraph has discovered
Bland Holt prowling on Broadway, and informs
America’s millions that he is scouring the States in
quest of material for Australian audiences. . It is
stated that Blandolt’s next Melbourne production will
contain “a wondrous representation of the Great
White Way, with its myriad of electric signs.” Ap-
parently Bland has resolved that his positively last
appearance was a trifle premature, and means get-
ting hack to business, as his intimates believed he
would. To your hardened pro. sunlight is a poor
substitute for limelight.
“C. Ockney”: “Snell,” in his rowdy rejoinder (B.
29/6/’ll), says I “defend the game” of the copying
and mimicry of important parts in the reproduction
of London plays over here. That is hardly a just
appreciation of my attitude. “Snell” first of all
blamed the actors. I told him the mummers have
no Option. Now he shifts his ground, and not only
“goes for” the “actor-men” who “prate of their art”
(did “Snell” ever meet a musical-comedy merchant
who was taken that way?), but drags in the audience
—even going so far as to denounce the poor inno-
cents who pay their money at the door as “receivers
of stolen property!” The audience (when it recovers
from this accumulation of “staggerers”) can look
after itself. Still concerning myself with the per-
formers, I would beg to address to Mr. Justice Snell
these few words: “Sir, you introduced Peter Doody.
Your Honor can well understand that, just as there
are ‘hundreds of ways of inditing tribal lays,’ so there
are dozens of ways of playing (say) ‘Hamlet,’ and
each of them is right. But, I submit, there is only
one right way with the playing of Peter. If the
original is not copied there is simply no part. So
I would beg your Honor to mercifully reconsider the
case.”
“Haresfoot”: The Bulletin’s picture of Essie
Jenyns, on the opening of a new Shakspearian season,
recalls how great were the lady’s services in bringing
forward and inspiring young actors in “As You
Like It,” “Romeo and Juliet,” and tbe rest. Nigms
and suppers of the gods! There was the parental
plain Billolloway. He would not allow anybody else
to play Romeo to the priceless Juliet. What sar-
casm the younglings bestowed on his uncouth, Mac-
beth-like Romeo, in the tow wig! Greenaway, In-
man, Dick Stewart (Junior), Atholwood, and Rolfe
were all burning to act it. Atholwood would have
been better than any; but there was the poor chap
stumping in wooden shoes as William, in “As You
Like It.” Stewart was Jaques, in the Barry Sullivan
vein; Inman a solemn Touchstone; Greenaway (I
think) Orlando. It was the Oscar Asehe system, or
no-system, of casting plays—put the parts in a lucky
bag, and draw.
“Petramos”: Please print this in the smallest type
interspersed with blushes. I have witnessed Bed-
elo’es second Marlodrama, “A Girl’s Temptation.”
With my own eyes I saw the villain enter the
heroine’s sleeping apartment, rid himself of everything
except his shirt, trousers and socks, and then pur-
sue his prey around the bedstead. In justice to the
management I must say that the hero came in (he
was a bachelor who, apparently, had a perfect right
to come in), and stopped the chase, so decency was
preserved. In the other bedclothes-play, “The Bad
Girl of the Family,” I was privileged to see several
ladies going to by-by. They presented to my notice
tilings I am generally too bashful to think about,
and I deplore the opportunity given to the programme
to remark: “The lingerie in the bedroom scene is
supplied by Petticoats and Things, Limited.”
Margaret Anglin is reported to have collaborated
with one Howard Hull in matrimoy. Hull is on the
staff of Everybody’s Magazine.
Stage salaries again. The London papers were
sure that the “Great Lafayette,” who was reduced to
ashes at the Edinburgh music-hall fire, would cut up
for hundreds of thousands. According to them, the
showman-magician had long been making a steady
±'4oo a week, and had also been extraordinarily
successful in rubber speculations. All this was
knocked on the head by the prosaic affidavit of his
brother, that the music-hall millionaire’s estate
amounted to just £2068.
Annette Scammell, an Adelaide girl, has just re-
turned from Germany and piano study. In Berlin
she saw Goethe’s “Faust” as produced by Reinhardt.
The show started at 5 p.m., and the Doctor got his
deserts about midnight; but it was impossible to get
seats except in a very advanced state. She met many
celebrities, including Marie Wieck, a sister of Klara
Schumann, a wonderful old lady of 79, who still
plays in public, and plays brilliantly.
George Rignold’s name cropped jip in Baily’s
Magazine, London, for January, 1874, re the per-
formance of “Alone” at. the Royal Court Theatre,
London: “Mr. George Rignold’s acting of a misan-
thropic old Colonel, the lone hero of the play, with
a very irascible temper, was strikingly clever.” So
much for the popular Australian delusion that the
famous Henry V. of yore made all his successes in
lime-lit heroic parts. “G.R.” had a reputation for
old-character acting 37 years ago, anyhow.
“Simon”: Talk about a dearth of actors in Syd-
ney. Rubbish! Here’s part of the cast: Holman,
acting-Premier; Flowers, acting-Chief Sec. ; Car-
michael, acting-Treasurer; Meagher, acting-Speaker
(Cann has carbuncles again) ; Ferguson and Rich,
acting-justices; Cullen, acting-Governor; a whole
tribe of people acting as Under-Secs, and such like ;
Fitzpatrick acting the Goat, and Wade acting the
Strong Man, as usual.
“Busk”: One of Gilbert’s last productions was an
adaptation of his “Wicked World”; he called it
“The Fallen Fairies.” When “The Wicked World”
had been produced, Gilbert wrote a parody on it,
called “The Happy Land.” It was acted at the
Court Theatre, and included travesties of three
Cabinet Ministers, Gladstone, Ayrton and Austra-
lian Bob Lowe, in a grotesque dance. This part of
it was at once suppressed. When the piece reached
Melbourne, local authors, said to be Walch and
Whitworth, prepared an adaptation for the Bijou,
and made three local Ministers, Berry, Jack Woods
and Majaw W. C. Smith, do the dance. This was
nipped in the bud, too, though it was performed on
a steamboat trip down the Bay. The first piece of
Gilbert’s seen in Australia was at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne in 1868 —an extravaganza named “The
Vivandiere,” or “True to the Corps.” The principal
characters were taken by Rogers, Stewart and Docy
Stewart, who had a fetching song, “Toni-oni-o.
Four voung swells, impersonated by Marion Dunn
(Mrs. Marcus Clarke), Maggie Stewart, Alice Bray,
and (I think) Alice Wooldridge, sang a quartette
about Montgomery riding on the Brighton-road. The
sisters Alice and Blanche Bray were step-daughters
of Fred Coppin, George’s brother. Alice married
Frank Hillsden, stepson of George Coppin. Blanche
was a beauty.
“G.L.C.”: “0.K.” (B. 29/6/’ll) makes the as-
sertion that “nobody seems to have definite ideas
about the result of the reckless picture competi-
tion which is coming along in Melbourne.” Wrong.
I have a very definite idea. The flicker shows will
all finish up precisely as those in London and N’Yark
have already done; i.e., give way to an interlarding
of vaudeville. Time was when a “variety”-cum-
picture show was a frost; so the two branches of
entertainment moved off in different directions, and,
both minding their own business, prospered greatly.
But a picture show being 90 per cent, (or there-
abouts) cheaper to run than vaudeville, the white
screen naturally began to monopolise the stage.
Pictures sprouted everywhere, and kept going day
and night. Result, monotony, which will sooner or
later put flickers out of fashion, except for a “star”
film now and then sandwiched into a vaudeville pro-
gramme. And so we shall get back to where we
started.
Some suffragette actresses gave a matinee per-
formance in London lately, for the production of
three little plays written by women in protest against
the down-trodden condition of their sex. One of the
plays, “In the Workhouse,” is a shockingly original
protest. The scene is the lying-in ward of a work-
house, with five newlv-made mothers ranged in their
little beds. Two of them are spinsters, who cheer-
fully expect to be married next day under the
virtuous patronage of the “guardians.” But a big,
bad girl comes along to have her sixth, and remarks
that in her previous indiscretions she had been asso-
ciated with five different gentlemen, who had all
paid her well. Thus she had become a capitalist in
a small way. She always saved expenses, however,
by putting herself “on the parish” when an event
fell due, and could afford to “live her own life.”
The big, bad girl painted the advantages of living
one’s own life in such glowing colors that the
meek, downtrodden mothers, who had been about to
get married, decide to retain their freedom, and de-
mand handsome payment from their respective gentle-
men friends. Evidently the suffragette movement is
advancing in England. It travels rapidly.
“Wing”: A Poverty Pointer is wrong. Corlesse
was not the' Australian original of Cattermole, in
“The Private Secretary.” It was Harwood, Cor-
lesse was the Squire in the red coat. Hawtrey adapted
“The Private Secretary” from a German farce, “Der
Bibliothekar,” meaning “The Librarian.” He had
no author’s fees to pay, and is said to have cleared
£BO 000. Yet he afterwards went insolvent. Beer-
bohm Tree was the original Rev. Spaulding, a charac-
ter of no account in the German piece, and not of
much account at first in London. Tree handed
over the part to little Penley. Thornton, after
300 nights throughout England as the Lord Chan-
cellor in “lolanthe,” secured the rights, and took
it to New York ; thence he came to Australia.
“Ajacks”: N’York is-delighted with Tyrone Power,
well known here, who, \vith Constance Collier, heads
a cast of 50 in the Flossiedrama, “Thais.” Seats are
booking six weeks in advance. Other contemporary
successes in N.Y. include some curiously-titled pro-
ductions—“ Mrs. Bumpstead Lei<rh” and “Nobody’s
Widow” ; “Little Miss Fixit” and “Alma, Where Do
You Live?”; “Excuse Me” and “I’ll Be Hanged if
I Do.”
W.F.’ : I agree .with “Propstick” re William
Hoskins’s knowledge of Shakspeare, the fault of his
tragic acting, and the preachiness of his style of
speaking. But in Shakspearian and all old comedv
he was impressive, and his Mercutio, Benedick,
Lucio, Gratiano, Pangloss, and one or two others were
never equalled in Australia. His Affable Hawk, if
not so polished as that of Charles Matthews, was
quite as enjoyable. His best serious parts were his
Prospero, in his own splendid revival of “The Tem-
pest,” and his lago to Henry Neil Warner’s Othello.
G. V. Brooke was starring in Ballarat at the time,
and Hoskins engaged Warner to play a week with
him. Brooke was to have played lago, and we all
expected a great treat; but the great G.V. had been
looking on the wine when it was red, and, though he
came on the stage, they had to drop the curtain on
him in the first scene, and Hoskins took up the run-
ning as lago. With all his faults, Brooke was a man
with no jealousy of a brother actor, and when his
own Othello fell off, owing to his loss of voice, he
could see the merit of Warner’s Othello. When they
were playing together, though that was seldom, he
always, or at least mostly, played lago. Brooke
used to tell Dr. Neild and others that Warner would
be at the top of the tree some day. And Hoskins
used to say the same when Warner was on the stage
of the old Royal in Ballarat. Hoskins would take
any visitor behind the scene by the button, and say,
“Listen to Warner. How he puts me in mind of my
old master, Samuel Phelps!”
No. 2 of “Australian Play Pictorials,” devoted to
Hthol Irving, compares favorably with the. picture
plav-books that come from London; as to letter-
press, it more than holds its own. Phil. Finkelstein,
who business-manages for Clarke and Meynell at the
Melb. Royal, wrote the new matter, and compiled the
rest; and, naturally, the academic-looking young
man blushes with pride in his achievement. A fetch-
ing colored photo, of the actress adorns the wrapper,
and the George Robertson publication—at sixpence—-
will find its way into every stage-struck home.
“Bromide” : The absurdity of keeping the
immigration business in the hands of _ the
States is further exposed by a nice little
game now in progress. There is trouble
in the Queensland sugar industry. Local
labor is very scarce, and what there is will
not “scab.” The sugar czars therefore estab-
lished agencies for recruiting labor in Syd-
ney. Their touts run around amongst the
newly-landed “chummies,” who know no-
thing of what is happening; they paint the
conditions in the sugar mills in glowing
colors, offer a seven months’ job, and give
“chummy” a pass. “Chummy” rushes the
chance, signs the agreement, and leaps into
the first train bound for Bananaland. And
all that N. S. Wales gets for its trouble is a
bill for the passage money of the “chummy”
who left immediately on arrival.
The irrepressible Dry Brown —the Lord
High Attorney-General of Victoria, who
opens prison doors as freely as he squanders
public cash in abortive prosecutions—is now
getting his meeu of blame for advising Willy
Watt, on the strength of a 60-year-old letter,
that the boundary line between N.S.W. and
Victoria was illegally drawn. The Sur-
veyor-General of N.S.W. wrote to the local
Government in 1851 stating that the bound-
ary line, already decided upon, ought to run
differently. When Grown saw this letter he
told Willy Watt that it altered the whole
legal aspect of the case. Whereupon poor
Willy Watt fell in, being less of a lawyer
than his Attorney-General. Still Dry Brown
remains at the head of Vic.’s Crown Law
Department. Once again he is Done Brown,
but the latest roasting makes no more differ-
ence than the others did.
A row was kicked up by Willis in the
N. S. Wales Assembly the other day over
Hansard. The reporter, not being sure of
something that Willis had said, dropped in
the remark —“The hon. member was under-
stood to say.” On that Willis argued in
favor of members being allowed to alter
their soeeches to their own satisfaction on-
the proof-slip, as in the Federal Parliament,
M.L. Parliament and elsewhere. This, as
chief of Hansard Robinson said in his let-
ter to the Speaker, would leave “each member
to be the sole judge of what should be pub-
lished under his name, instead of making
the reports a vehicle whereby an elector who
chooses may virtually be present in Parlia-
ment itself.” Willis’s motion of censure on
the Speaker or Acting Premier for allowing
the chief of Hansard to comment on a
member in a paper laid on the table of
the House was thrown out; so the old
method of keeping the elusive politician as
near to his word as possible will carry on.
Incidentally, Queensland was the first of
the States to start a Hansard, and the
sensitive, conscientious William Senior was
imported from England to work the machine.
Frequently from the floor of the House he
was charged with offences, but his fly-fishing
hobby helped him to bear up for five years,
at the end of which he returned to journal-
ism in England.
SHAKSPEARE’S GRIEVANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I entered Paradise last night—
(The whisky or the cray ? Who knows !)
My soul was filled with pure delight.
You talk about your picture shows —
No film has ever captured yet
The wondrous scene my optics met!
Oh, what a crowd I gazed upon!
I mixed among it undismayed ;
Celebrities long dead and gone,
And genius of ev’ry shade;
Artists and poets, whom you know
By name alone, were all on show.
But one there was attracted most;
His brother-shades he towered above.
Great Shakspeare! Straight unto that ghost
I made my way ; I had to shove —
The crowd was thickest round him—still
At last I came a-nigh to Will.
And then I saw his eyes were sad ;
I noted too his ’furrowed brow.
It almost seemed as if he had
Some dreadful news received but now —
That Bacon, say, was being “starred”
On earth as the “Immortal Bard!”
I caught his eye and then I spoke:
“Dear Shake, for long I’ve worshipped you;
Behold in me one of. those folk
Who in your busking days you knew,
And liked so much and must like still —-
I am a brother-actor, Bill! ”
Bill frowned still more; he turned to go.
“I’ve taken a dislike,” said he,
To mummers lately—one old pro.
Arrived last night and angered me;
Gadzooks! the caitiff caused me pain—•
He told me I looked like Hall Caine 1”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
THE LAMENT OF THE PENNY DREADFUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The consorship of cinematograph shows is urgently
necessary. The evil grows, and the old-fashioned
penny dreadful has been superseded by the moving
picture film. — Latest wo^se.
Ten years ago and I was in my prime f
The Purity Brigade, hot on my trail,
Laid at my garis.i door each foolish crime
That slid some weeping youngster into gaol.
But now I age apace, and, ageing, fail;
Gone is my dash ; lost is my punch ; and so
I take the count! My once horrific tale
Cuts little ice against the Picture Show.
The Good no longer seek my corns to crush;
Ten years ago they used to leap and rage
And swear the founts of youthful sin did gush
In inky torrents from each printed page.
They have not told me that my day is done.
I simply am not mentioned any more!
No kid is warned my company to shun ;
I lie unread upon the bookshop floor.
But, ’neath the counter, frequently I’m told
The gore-struck crew my record past assail;
In hollow tones these faithful friends of old
Agree the film turns all my horrors pale.
Well, it is fate, and pining won’t avail!
I had my da3% and now I’m old and sick.
But hist! I may yet drive the final nail
Into the coffin of the passing “flick”!
Up Turpin ! Prime your pistols, Carter ! Reade :
To horse, dear William of the Buffalo !
The time is ripe, my men! Go forth with speed
And learn your business at the Picture Show !
MAORILAND.
SINC. S. CLARK.


Men’s Hats —Must Be Cleared
Saturday will mark the close of our Winter Sale. Next week we shall gather all odd lines, oddments,
remnants and broken lots together, and offer at Clearance Prices. The Hats illustrated are
tswsiss
• ” t",
TWO
TYPICAL
EXAMPLES.
soft Pure Felt Loungre— The ideal Hat for Country
wear, as illustrated, with brims varying from 2Jin.
to 3in. Grey with Grey or Black band ; Light
Brown, Beaver, and Serpent Green in 2Jin.
brims Usual Price, 12/6 ; To Clear,
9/6
Semi-Lounge Hat —Can be worn as illustration, or
with turned up and straight crease in crown. In
Grey, light or medium shades ; with Grey or Black
bands; also in Cuba, Lava, Sage Green. Olive,
Serpent Green, Ash Grey or Beaver.
Usual Price, 12/6 ; To Clear,
9/0
WE PAY CARRIAGE on Hats to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
SYDNEY
ENGLISH CHOLERA CURED.
“Recently a customer of mine called into purchase
some goods, and was violently attacked with English
Cholera,” writes L. M. Morrin, Otahuhu', New Zea-
land. “I induced him to take a dose of Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy, which imme-
diately effected a cure. I might add, that on
numerous occasions I have used Chamberlain’s
Diarrhoea Remedy this way, and it has had mar-
vellous effects on the sufferers.”*
No Household
Should ever be without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment; a reliable remedy for cuts,
bruises, aches, pains, rheumatism and lumbago.
Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE PEACE
OFFERING.
MR. RACKET (after
visiting the early-
morning market):
"Every morn I
bring thee violets."
What age is the servant girl problem?
From Goethe’s “Wilhelm Meister,” pub-
lished about 1796: —
Therese: My cook just ran away at the most
inopportune time, and our man has mangled his hand.
. . . Nothing bothers one more, nowadays, than ser-
vants.
Still, Mrs. Subbubs is quite sure that her
own little trouble is all due to something the
dreadful Labor party did yesterday—or last
week at farthest.
Baronet Lancelot Aubrey Fletcher was
seized with one of the brightest of Corona-
tion ideas and promptly communicated it to
the Times. He thought his benighted Over-
seas brethren and sisters, visiting England
for the Coronation, should be afforded op-
portunities of coming to close quarters with
baronets, in order, to quote his own words,
“that they may see something of our man-
ners and customs in the country.” So he
intimated that he was willing to entertain
parties of “colonial” guests, four at a time,
on the recommendation of any Agent-
General ; and he urged his brother baronets to
go and do likewise. There is, so far, no
word about any rush of applicants. The
“colonials” seem to have remembered (quite
unnecessarily, of course) the warnings in
their own papers at Cup time in Melbourne
and at Show time in Sydney—warnings in
which Bill of Buckley’s Crossing is invari-
ably told to be careful of very friendly
gentlemen who want to show him the
“sights.”
* * * *
For the last fortnight, in the heart of
Melbourne, a suggestion has been loudly
offering itself to the builders of the Federal
capital and any other new city that may
arise. The trouble began with the bursting
of a worn-out water main. The wiseacres
who laid this down thought that it
would last for all eternity, and would
never need to be got at, so, to begin
with, the workmen had to hack out
the wood blocks, belt out a couple of
feet of concrete, and then pick their way
through the clay. Here they struck trouble.
The water main runs through the tunnel-
drain carrying the street seourings to the
Yarra, and in opening this the weakened
ground overhead let the Hydraulic Power
Co.’s pipe sag and leak. This saturated the
subsoil, and four boxes of electric light wires
and one of telephone wires had to be
propped up and kept from collapsing into
the mess. The Gas Co.’s mains haven’t
come into view at the time of writing, but a
loud smell of coal gas shows that one at least
of them has met disaster, and householders
adjacent have been cautioned against using-
naked lights, while large policemen warn
street-passengers against lighting pipes, etc.,
in the neighborhood lest they blow them-
selves to perdition. Meanwhile, half- a- dozen
gangs of workmen and twice as many in-
spectors are trying to straighten out the
mess and cover it all up again—till the next
time something happens. And if the city’s
builders had but put in a large tunnel for
the easily-adjustable, inexpensive carrying
of water, gas, electric light and ’phone and
other services, all this bother and danger
might have been avoided.
“ A c t i n g-Private” :
Why does our De-
fence Department stick
to the British Infantry
drill-book for our kid
army? In the event
of a national crisis,
our Infantry must be
mobile, and must,
therefore, be converted
into Mounted Infan-
try. Why not, then,
teach the juvenile In-
fantry Mounted Infan-
try drill at the very
inception of compul-
sory training? The
Mounted-Infantry drill
is just as adaptable to
Infantry as it is to
Light Horse. “Damn-
you-stand-still” Hut-
ton was wise enough
to introduce it to Aus-
tralia ; but as soon as
he went the “heads”
fell back on the two-
rank Infantry drill.
The Infantry sent
from Australia to the
Boer madness had to
be promptly converted
to Mounted Infantry,
and it took about six
weeks to do the job.
Why not pump the
horse brand of drill in-
to our boys at once,
and save the time —
which may be very
precious when the
change becomes ipdis-
pensable? I’ll admit
the present system
looks pretty, and prob-
ably that is why it
was adopted, but we’re
in this defence busi-
ness for use, not or-
nament.
Adelaide supplies the most characteristic
incident in connection with the first com-
pulsory drill. At Maylands three officers
had charge of about 400 boys. One boy had
concealed in his jumper a small football.
Tiring of the goose-step, he felt he simply
had to kick that football, and he did. Im-
mediately the whole mob charged, and the
game proceeded, 200 or so a side, whilst
three ruffled officers emerged from the ruck
angrily demanding a court-martial.
An alderman can sometimes be a sport.
At Balranald (N.S.W.) recently a shire
council election was held. The two candi-
dates polled an equal number of votes, and
agreed to draw for the seat. Some of the
loser’s backers took it badly and said that
if another election were held the position
would be reversed. “All right.” said the
winner; “I’ll retire and let's have another
‘go,’ loser to pay all expenses.” The second
election was in favor of the previous winner
by 89 votes to 54. Seventy -eight per cent,
of the electors voted.
BROTHERS IN ADVERSITY.
IST DRUNK: “ Well, are yer conin' home?"
2ND DRUNK (tearfully) : “I’ve got no home."
IST DRUNK (deeply affected): “Never mind—come home with me. I (hie) ain’t git
one either. ”
The Wellington (M.L.) Trades and Labor
Council asked the Government, the other
day, if it didn’t think the sick worker who
needed fresh air and sanatorium treatment
hadn’t a right to get it (or part of it) at
the public expense in the shape of reduced
railway fares and Government sanatorium
fees. Jimmy Carroll (Acting Prime Minis-
ter) said he didn’t see how it could be done,
but finally handed the deputation the old re-
liable information that the matter would be
considered. Meantime, the sick worker who
wants to travel cheaply had better declare
himself a tribe of Maoris going to a tangi,
or a religious body, or a racehorse.
* * * *
Melbourne Trades Hall Council moves to
bring its unions into more perfect control by
grouping allied trades and occupations. The
primary industries include two groups; the
manufacturing nine; the commercial callings
five. The group executive will have sole con-
trol of trade disputes up to a certain point.
A central council, elected on a basis of one
delegate for each 500 financial unionists, is
to establish a strike fund by compulsory
quarterly levies, based on members’ earnings ;
and should a group executive fail to settle
a trade dispute, it must refer the matter to
this council, which is to have absolute con-
trol of strikes. This is evidently the union
answer to the employers’ importation of a
noted Yankee strike-breaker to take charge
of the Free Workers’ Union; and unless the
public (which is to say, the Government)
steps in and compels arbitration, there is
liable to be a bad smash in the near future.
* * * *
Willie Loy, of Bathurst, recently had the
hardest luck a guileless Chinaman might
meet. He called round to the local railway
station one day for a parcel from Sydney.
Somebody, however, had “blown” upon Wil-
lie, and no sooner had he collected his
parcel than the police collected him and
charged him with having opium in his pos-
session. Willie pleaded guilty, because -
there seemed nothing else to do, and the
magistrate sent him to a cold, ungenerous
prison with the following letter of introduc-
tion to the Governor: “Six months hard.”
Then the police learned that the tins they
had seized contained not opium but
treacle: that the consignor had got
wind of the trap that had been set
and hastily made provision to save
Willie trouble ; and that they had an inno-
cent man in gaol and his innocent goods in
their possession. So, before Judge Docker a
few days ago, they pleaded guilty to falling
in badly, and Willie was set at liberty to go
home and wallop his joss.
Some heart-burnings have been caused hv
the appointment of Canon Ashton ?o Mei-
bo rne s ancient and financially well
nourished meumhenev of All SninfV
Ivilda. The vicar of St Paul’s cSifilt'
pruned the following chilly comment in his
Parish Record for July • “The new Vicar
bane l 1S , Cnnon Ashton, from Bris-
bane. He is unknown in Melbourne but
has an advantage which seems now to count
or a good deal with the Melbourne authori-
ties. lie is not of this diocese, and not of
Australian birth.” Can This Be Love?
Tamworth, one of the N.S.W. towns that
believed the yarn about the complete ab-
sence of monopolies, trusts, combines and
other conspiracies, and voted “No No” at
the top of its voice, has been hit in the place
where a lot of people keep their brains. The
trouble, as usual, is Beer. It used to be
possible for Tamworth to wash out some of
the dust and smell of Chinaman at thrip-
pence a time; but the poor, downtrodden
Bung pulled himself together and agreed
with himself that the process shouldn’t cost
less than 6d. However, there has been the
usual break-away, and now there are deep
curses and vague hints about a £5O fine that
is waiting round the corner for the shame-
less people who serve out salvation at the
old price.
The S. M. Herald rippled with joy the
other morning. There was a white sea-
men’s strike at Cardiff, and the patriotic
owners, who have been steadily pushing in
Chinese crews, had manned still another
vessel with the yellow scum that is steadily
choking the British sailor off the sea. A
boatload of white sailors —the men whom
papers like the S. M. Herald slobber over
when there’s any tough job to do —boarded
this ship ; “but the Chinese faced them with
knives in their hands, and the pickets
promptly withdrew.” And the delighted
Herald, at the sight of probably starving
British sailors driven off a British ship in
a British port by the unspeakable Chow
with murder in his hands, derisively headed
it—“ Valorous Pickets: Taught Discretion
by Chinese.”
* * * *
So far, the quest among the N. S.
Wales country towns, lately undertaken
by the Health Board for an honest milk-
man and a sensible magistrate, hasn’t
panned out much to the dipper. But the
Board’s inspectors found plenty of the other
sort, which is to say, the usual sort. In
fact, in some places every milk-o was the
other (usual) sort—at all events, every
millc-sample taken was adulterated. At
Dubbo the proportion of added water varied
between 3.7 p.c. and 31 p.c., and the Welling-
ton emulsion between 12.5 p.c. and 59.2 p.c.
Now the other (which is to say, the usual)
sort of magistrate comes in. Eight of the
baby-murderers were convicted; seven were
fined £2 each, including four who had sold as
milk something that was nearly one-fifth
water. The other, who had vended a trifle
over one-third milk in his. was asked to part
a whole unbroken £3. The remaining two
cases were dismissed, as the offenders were
“honest traders.” Probably as they had
only sold 7 p.c. water, and charged for it as
milk, they were “honest traders”—as that
sort of trader goes. Captain Kidd was, no
doubt, an “honest trader,” as pirates go.
THE VISIONARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I useter feed in restorongs
Wifout the least misgivin’,
Like uvvers of the bizzy throngs
As earns a ’umble livin’;
T scorfed the grub the waiters brought
Wif blokes and boys from drapers’—
I was a ’ungry party.
But now me eyes is itchin’
l-’or to go and see the kitchin’;
1 ’ave read them daily papers,
And me appetite ain’t ’earty,
Tell yer strate!
I pickchers cook, red-faced an’ stout,
A-grabbin’ up the vittles,
And tossin’ sorsages abowt
The same as greesy skittles.
Or droppin’ dumplins on me plate
Wif fingers black an’ smellish —
No carvin’ fork he uses.
Oh, why have they been pitchin’
For to go and see the kitchin;
Wot I swallered wunst wif relish
My pore stummick now refuses,
Tell yer strate!
It ain’t no good to say “Wot odds?”
I’ve read, an’ more’s the pity.
The soup’s no nectar for the gods
Wen wunst you’ve found it gritty,
And wundered if the bits o’ dirt
Come orf a floor or table
Where rats ’as run a-mucker.
My eyes is fairly itchin’
For the ’orrors of the kitchin;
I would eat, if I was able,
But I’m orf my bloomin’ tucker,
Tell yer strate!
VICTORIA.
O.K.


ms
S
hg
WON’T YOU USE
what Is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
L Sunlight Soap has once
been tried.
NO. 87. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 87.
Hunyadl
Janos
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler
on arising, before breakfast, for
CONSTIPATION
Wild s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is the
proper place to go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 ; Satur-
day close at 1 o’clock.*
i «pwss<W
THE SHIRT ¥OO WANT
TILL WINTER’S END.
THERE are many choppy, changeable months ahead
yet, and a warm woollen shirt like this will be a
good safeguard against them !
It’s a soft fabric—all wool throughout—with an
unshrinkable neck band, turn back cuffs or band cuffs to
button. It may be had in Bright Stripes, relieving sober
grounds of Slate, Brown and Green.
With one soft collar included.
Price 9(6.
Postage, 6d. extra; Inter-State 9d.
Send size of collar when ordering.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Outfitters," 309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
While legal language would be often im-
proved by a little judicious sub-editing, it
would have been a pity to mar the beauty
of the following instance from a recent case
in Victoria: “The defendant denies that he
is the father of the twins, or either of
them.” defendant was taking no risks.
“O. B. J. Burrs” returns to the over-
looked corpse :
Maoriland has been so busy since Joseph fished a
baronetcy out of the Coronation pot that it has again
forgotten some of its defunct. This time it has
broken the record, the corpse lying around the Christ-
church Hospital for 10 days. On June 12 a valuable
voter, named Wilson, died of consumption, and was
shown into the morgue. The tuberculous corpse was
apparently misplaced, or the document authorising
burial was jabbed on the wrong file. Anyhow, it
lingered on the premises for 10 days. Porters came
in and “swept up,” yet failed to notice it. It must
have been an extra-tame corpse —or the porters must
have been extra-busy. Dr. Widderson, hospital sur-
geon, on being approached by a reporter (it takes a
reporter to locate these misplaced Maoriland corpses),
thought that it was “nonsense.” He “had not heard
anything of it.” So the whole matter (bar the
corpse) is to “be brought before the committee.’
In the meantime the cadaver is as dead as ever ; but
the habit of allowing the dead to bury its dead is
becoming a trifle frequent in the country that is
usually said to be “God’s own,” though it has a
mortgage on it.
“Harbor and Rivers”: For years, more
or less vague rumors have been floating
about N. S. Wales concerning “graft” in
the great spending department of the State.
Griffith, the Labor Minister, rightly tried
to nail these rumors by a special inquiry;
ignoring the Public Service Board, he ap-
pointed Judge Hamilton as a Commission.
The finding is that certain officers unduly
favored certain firms ; but the suspicion that
these officers accepted bribes was not proved.
That finding having been recorded, the
Minister electrified the service by announc-
ing that he “had taken steps to have two
officers removed from the Public Service.”
The political head hasn’t any such power;
and if the doctrine of non-interference by
the political head is not a myth, the Public
Service Board should stiffen its back, if it
lias one. The officers threatened were not
on trial. If they were they were victims of
a confidence trick. Any charge against them,
according to the Act, must be set out in
writing. Then, if they plead not guilty, the
Board can alone try them, criminal
offences, of course, excepted; and it must
try tnein according to principles laid down
in the Act. A Ministerial decision that an
officer shall be sacked, in the circumstances
mentioned, is just as improper as it would
be for a coroner to decide on the execution
of a man not on trial, and not accused of
anything, simply 7 because there happened
to be a smell or corpse on the premises.
THE
DIFFERENCE.
“Don't you and
Miss Babbler
speak?"
“ Certainly—but not to each other."
AWFULLY KEEN
PERCIVAL : “Are you fond of walking, old
chap?"
AUGUSTUS : “Awfully, dear boy!"
PERCIVAL: “So am I. Let’s walk to a cab."
From London: —
A. M. Nicol, some time commandant of the Salv’-
army in Australia, quarrelled with General Booth,
seceded, and has now published a book showing up
the seamy side of the organisation. He confirms
what has been suspected—that there is a good deal
of the stage army about the Boothian host, and that
the noise they make is out of all proportion to their
actual numbers. Nicol was 30 years under the Blood
and Fire banner, and held some of the highest and
most confidential posts. He has unrivalled inside
knowledge, and his estimate of the total strength of
the Army all over the world —250,000, nearly half
(115,000) being in Great Britain—is probably pretty
near the mark. Deduct the numerous paid officers of
all grades, and a beggarly lot of soldiers is left.
What, of course, he has most to complain about is
the old man’s “autocratic Imperialism”; but, in-
cidentally, he mourns over the falling away from
early ideals, and denounces the growing tendency of
the masterful old drummer to mix up religion and
trade. As though a man with a nose like that could
help it!
A new sort of bargain was
struck last week between Edgar,
Victorian Minister for Public
Works, and a settler on McCar-
tin’s-road, in distant Gipps-
land. Said the Bloke: “I am
not married; but if you will
give me a road that I can bring
a wife over, I will guarantee
that as soon as the road is made
both my brother and myself
will get married.” The Minis-
ter roared “Done!” and shook
hands on a promise to find £3OO
for this Via Plymenaea or Prim-
rose Path.
# * * *
The missioners got at the
heathen in his blindness as soon
as the Jap training ship cast
anchor in Hobson’s Bay. The
vessel was hardly ship-shape be-
fore the disconcerted captain dis-
covered a parson alongside with
a boatload of Bibles. Soon
Canon Gason had the Jap
cadets assembled, and then
100 Bibles (Coronation brand)
were distributed among them.
Imagine the howls of holy fury
if a proselytising priest mounted
a British warship in a foreigu
port and endeavored to induce
Jack Tar to bow down to
strange gods! One Jap cadet
thanked Parson Gason for the
Bibles which, he said, they al-
ready knew how to appreciate.
Having heard of Japs pulping
great masses of gift Bibles to
make cartridge cases, The Bul-
letin discovers a flavor of
Oriental sarcasm just here.
The Prahran, Fitzroy, St. Kilda and Col-
lingwood Councils are all vainly looking for
rat-catchers. Not only is the demand for
experts in this profession far in advance of
the supply, but Dr. Burnett Ham holds out
no hopes of being able to secure skilled
hands elsewhere. Now. here's a chance for
an enterprising Business College!
THE ONE THING NEEDFUL.
H E: “ Can't stand her Juliet. As an actress, she has no future .”
SHE: “With her past, she doesn't need it."
“Kaiviti”: . Fiji, in common with other
more or less civilised communities, has its
birthrate problem. Elsewhere scientists and
politicians have oeen hunting for a solu-
tion. They can knock off now: Sir Henry
May, Governor of Fiji, has found the an-
swer. In an address, on June 27, to the
Council of Chiefs, he made the whole thing
as clear as mud. Thus wise
Now I am your Governor for some years. If at
the end of my term of office I find that the popula-
tion has not increased, that the Fijian race is slowly
dying, what account shall I render to the King and
Emperor whom I represent? How can I go to my
Sovereign and say: “Your Majesty entrusted me with
the care of the people of Fiji, for whom you have
especial affection, having known them as a young
Prince. I am very sorry to report that during my
term of office they have decreased in numbers.” I
could not make such a report, and, therefore, I order
you to increase and multiply so that I may be able
to say to my Lord and Master : “Your people of Fiji
are flourishing and increasing even as your Majesty
desires.”
There you are! Quite easy, isn’t it? All
your new Denman has to do on arriving is
to ring up for Flinders Lane, Toorak, Wool-
lahra, and the various “Pointers” to line
up; that done, he will say, “Gentlemen, in
George’s name, I command you!”
Melbourne Age advt.:—
Lost in black handbag, set of false teeth and a
quantity of other jewellery.
Those gold-strewn pearls are getting into
their right class at last.
A citizen of Prahran (Vic.) has found
compensation in his adversity. Prosecuted
on account of non-payment of dog tax, he
reminded the Court that he was officially
under the care of the Lunacy Department as
a person of unsound mind. “Consequently,”
said he, “I do not pay rates or taxes.” He
had already beaten the Board of Works for
water-rates. The Bench (a J.P. bench)
agreed that “under the law a lunatic is
dead”; but they fined their antagonist ss.
all the same. The legal corpse demurred,
and said that he wpuld defy the law from
his tomb; and he will probably succeed, be-
cause he certainly seems to have had the
best of the argument.
“Locust” from the crowd:—
In a wide experience of crowds of various nations,
I don’t know of any that can “leg-pull” like the
Australian crowd. There was a memorable instance
when Dowie came to Sydney. I went to a big packed
meeting in the Town Hall. It was clear from the
outset that the crowd had passed a collective resolu-
tion not to allow Dowie to speak; but the means
adopted filled me with admiration. The chairman
took his seat, with Dowie, a red-faced, white-haired
old man, in a kind of violet college-costume, beside
him. The chairman rose to introduce. There was
an interruption—“We want Dowie!” in chorus, re-
peated three times like a football slogan. This
drowned the chairman. When silence was restored,
an indignant voice exclaimed “Order!” Three thou-
sand indignant voices took up the cry, and order
was vociferously called for during five minutes.
Then “We want Dowie!” again. Dowie arose and
said, “Friends,” and no more. Every time he started
to open his mouth the cry “We want Dowie!” went
up in all sorts of expressions, longing, hope, sur-
prise, pain. In a lucid moment a Dowieite said,
“Sh-sh!” Instantly it seemed as if ten thousand
geese were hissing “Sh! Sh! Shi” The shishing
lasted nearly 10 minutes. Then someone said
“Shame!” and the chorus took it up. “Shame!
Shame! Shame!” reverberated through the hall, down
the spinal column qf the great organ, over the
harbor, and away to the great Pacific. Dowie gave
it up at last and sat down to vociferous cheering.
Nobody heard a word from the eminent Zionite;
everyone was perfectly good-tempered; there was no
disorder. But the ordinary expressions and ejacula-
tions of a crowded meeting were used to silence the
man whose boastful threats and talk about the wick-
edness of Sydney were resented by the people. Where
another crowd (like that which Dowie faced in New
York) might have been dangerous, and have smashed
things, the Australian crowd was blandly tolerant
and fun-loving, but nevertheless resolved that it
would have its own way with the venerable humbug.
Maoriland’s recent hospitals conference
passed a resolution in favor of the estab-
lishment of State farms or something in
that line for confirmed drunkards and drug
fiends, where they may be reformed, or, at
least, made to earn something for the sup-
port of their families. At present a number
of the hardest “cases” are passed over to the
Salv’army, and turned loose on two islands
in Hauraki Gulf. The Army gets a weekly
sum for their tucker, and they do a certain
amount of work —just about enough to keep
their appetites in repair. There is a good
deal of argument as to the effect of the
seclusion on their thirst. Anyhow, the thirst
would have as good a chance of being killed
by seclusion in some place where its owner
could earn his own living and something to.
support his family. Under the present ab-
surd arrangement, a good proportion of the-
soakers are simply being turned into loafers;
or confirmed in that unprofitable occupation.
THREE COFFINS DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It would be interesting to know if the trustees are
aware that the ground managers are interring up to
six persons in a grave, instead of “not more than
two adults,” as required by the regulations.— Daily
paper, on Rookwood (Sydney ) Cemetery.
In one case a Chinaman was interred on top of
five British subjects.— lnteresting revelation.
The grave of Jones is next to mine;
At least it used to be;
Last week the thin dividing line
Collapsed on him and me.
It doesn’t matter much perhaps,
For both of us are dead;
But each of us has two strange chaps
Reclining overhead.
They’ve not been introduced to us;
And I and Neighbor Jones
Are much afraid there’ll be a fuss
When Time has mixed the bones.
Jones has a widow up on top;
I've got a widow too;
Their tears they never cease to drop
Upon our graves like dew.
But two confounded strangers get
The grief that’s rightly ours;
Then, too, down here we stir and fret
And envy them our flowers.
Our long-closed eyes that yet can see
Through earth and coffin-lid,
Are blinded utterly since we
Behind their backs are hid.
Yet sometimes we, for friendship’s sake
(For why should dead men fight?),
Call out “Top-floor! Are you awake 9
How shine the stars to-night?”
No voice responded till last night;
Then came the brief reply:
“You savee, stars all welly blight!
Whaffor you ask? Goo’ ni’.”
Now Jones is very stiff with me
(I did not mean to jest!)—-
How with a Chinaman, says he,
Can I enjoy my rest?
And when I try to tell Friend Jones
The voice came from his side,
He stirs impatiently 7 and moans;
It seems to hurt his pride.
Oh! would that we could make a din
The ready spades to stay,
Who occupy the basement in
The Rookwood house of clay!
N.S.W.
THE SEXTON.


ĝfgh
> yellow — Kof ecT djl |
(b.ff).Two hundred £ twenty odd ye (in ft.)*
-twelve
Coww'tVyme*. of ours over de*l
b ‘ff b«fM .
7)i , >ml’€HS'fid - I d«wno, it" lo
7oca*- ds, little far-fetched
■*^e_
The. Boy —Ey ifeir'fa* sWI
K»7oW i>f€rr7 ,
><>«s
INTEREST
There are slow-witted, unimaginative
persons who say that nothing is to be
gained by acquiring the tramways now.
These are the people who have kept I
Melbourne drugged Into insensibility
during the last score ol years.— Age. a
Corvee i
-to wlio w^i+< >
\)uV lboa««*
2yre slow, 't&ei-'e j
tb I
l> ofr He&r*e
Everything points to a revival very
shortly of the agitation for further
legislation to cope with the Chinese In
the furniture trade— Age.
I+S y&p
oil oh »i£
"Trouble* wowj«ry %
CO*v)h»on-
ShouU
hOMclj
th I*7o
r
(frere teen
of
so»v)e
in th*
st*t"e
f^CCntly
So
'flje L&c*' h\S -fvlcel
''fjj induce lit*v) to let - 90 kis
2f*|>x f>ossi bly ‘because ifie.
club is & Staffed one .
C'fryo >s, ob
&JI b«f in e rev,
in it”. | doyfr loolC -jiit'
|»«Vls t but; n>«. , I did
MAINLY YELLOW AGONY.


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney, [4
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
4/- in the £
DISCOUNT.
WE ARE TAKING OFF ALL
ELECTRO PLATE TABLE WEAR.
WE have been able to make special
arrangements with the greatest and
best Manufacturers of England to
sell their Electro-Silver Products at 20 per
cent. Discount off their English Wholesale
Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions
on all our Electro-plate Stock.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures']
Cash. J
23 8 25 Hunter St.
Best Electro-plate on Hard White Metal, 13in. high.. £6 0 0
Less 20 per cent .. 140
£4 16 0
ABORIN-
ALITIES
“Werrimee”: The old lady ran after us
as we were passing with a droving plant, and wanted
to know if I had seen anything of her son Jimmy in
my travels. He was droving with somebody some-
where; she didn’t know whom, and she didn’t know
where. I regretted 1 had not met him, and was
sorry to hear he had gone astray. She said I
might meet him on the Mooni, where the wild cattle
came from. He always did have a hankering after
wild cattle. If I did, would I kindly write —Jimmy
couldn’t write himself —and let her know? “What
sort of a man is he?” I asked. “You’ll easy know
him,” she said with confidence. “He’s got a dog
with spotted ears, an’ always uses a white-handled
pocket-knife. He ’ad sunstroke once,” she added. 1
put all this down in my pocket-book, and the poor
old girl was immensely pleased. I forgot to ask her
name.
THE LURID PAST.
MAGISTRATE : “I see you have resided for 40
years past at Dead Dog Creek. Conditions
must have been primitive when you first went there?”
OLD AGE PENSION CLAIMAINT : “ Blime , mister, they was ’ot!”
“9-3-11” : Rummiest scrap I ever saw was
on the day when I dropped a wood-grub on a nest of
ants. I reckoned he would be settled in 2min.
43sec., but I was wrong. The ants poured upstairs
in thousands, with every weapon in the arsenal, but
he took not the least notice. At first he merely
yarned ; then he started to bail out a milky fluid.
Tne colonel in command got it first, and in disgust
took four paces to the rear, to wipe his whiskers or
his sword or something, and two battalions followed
him. Within a few seconds they were all seized with
convulsions, and expired on the spot, or as near as
they could get to it. When I returned, half an hour
later, those who were still alive had decamped, and
the grub was sunning himself on the verandah of the
empty barracks. He was still yawning.
“Ah”: Am very much afraid the days of
swagging are numbered. ’Cause why? Well, a
swaggie nowadays is put in a social pen by himself.
I remember the time when a man could arrive per
boot, with his “knot” up, and obtain a contract for
(say) grubbing or fencing, and, if there happened
to be a “hop” on anywhere the following week, he
would be sure of an invite, and could cut-in with
the best of ’em. Within a month he was far enough
advanced to do a hand with some of the cockies
girls. But now his name is Mud; and even a trav-
eller with a horse and sulky is regarded with grave
suspicion, and made to feel his place. Yet no lazy
man carried a swag far ; for, on account of our vari-
able seasons and the big distances between stations,
and even selections, to say nothing of jobs, “swag-
ging” was an arduous method of travelling. (I
know; I averaged close on a thousand miles a year
for years.) Still, its disabilities were a good deal
softened when one had a good mate or the next best
thing, a faithful dog, for company, and a “quid” in
the “kick” for expenses. Of course, cadging tucker
is humiliating;, but a man who doesn’t drink and
will work very rarely comes to that. I’ve travelled
with horses in good and bad seasons; in good you
generally get your feet wet and your temper disar-
ranged before you can catch them; in bad your heart
aches for their hungry patient faces, as they watch
your every movement with eyes of dumb appeal.
Then there is the bike—well, that mode of travelling
is good on good roads; but on bad bush tracks, in-
terspersed with ambushes of deadly bindi-eye and
days of tiring driving against stubborn perverse
winds; it’s Tophet. So, one way and another, hoof-
“swagging” has a lot in its favor.
“Bert P.”: “Condot’s” (B. 18/5/’ll) ex-
perience of scrub turkeys’ methods of incubator-
construction differs from mine. In the first place,
after selecting a spot practically free from sticks
and stones, thickly carpeted with leaves, they (I
have seen as many as five operating together) face
the nest, and with their wings sweep up the leaves
from the ground, till it is as clean as a Dutch floor.
After the completion of the castle, and when suffi-
cient heat has been generated therein, Mrs. B. T.
deposits the eggs in a circle in the centre of the
mound, covers each one up as soon as laid, and
finally puts a 2ft. layer over the whole setting. As
soon as the young ’un is out, he starts right off to
stock his Little Mary, the nest providing both board
and lodging. Bush believers in the old adage, “The
early trap catches the bird,” enclose the nest with
wire-netting any time before the brood’s general
birthday. Thus, the whole of the Young Turkey
party is secured, and is afterwards educated to take
its fitting place at table. The eggs are very mild in
flavor, and make fine eating; I have found as many
as 17 in one nest.
* * * *
“G.L.C.”: To prove my contention that
the pelican is the champion pig-bird extant, I can
vouch for the fact that one recently shot by a fisher-
man on the Coorong (S.A.) was opened and found
to contain no less than 300 small fish, averaging 2J
inches in length.
“Smell” : Personally I have never met the
death-adder, except in rocky, and particularly in
granite, country. In the Stanthorpe (Q.) district
he is more plentiful than any other brand of snake.
There he is dark grey with a white belly. His length
is about 18in., his thickness about 1-Ain. The tail
terminates abruptly in a spine, or sting, long.
To settle an argument, my camp mates and I built
a brush fire around an adder, and waited develop-
ments. When the situation grew unpleasantly warm,
the adder brought head and tail together close to its
body, and with a sharp “flip” sprang seven yards.
Can an adder sting with its tail? I once watched a
dog have an argument with one, and though I am
certain the adder did not bite him, the dog died a
few hours after.
A PROPER JUDGMENT.
FIRST STAGER : “Wat d'yer think o' that there blasted son o’ mine? 'E's in a constant
job, an' I writes arskin' ’im for a quid; an ’ ’e writes back sayin ’ ’e can't spare it. There’s
a nice blanky son for yer! ”
SECOND STAGER: "If 'e was my son, I'll tell yer what I'd do to 'im. I'd disown the
cow!”
“Mr. Justice Ocky”: I desire to deliver
judgment in some recent cases. “H.S.M.” declares
that poisonous snakes climb. Pined £2O for pre-
varication. The snake he avers he saw in the dead
tree was probably washed there by the last flood; if
that isn’t the case, then it was washed there by the
liquor which “H.S.M.” had imbibed. “Jobber” is
hereby given special license to kill and quarter the
person who says “That’s right,” provided he includes
the wretch who answers “Go on.” This Court will
request the Crown Law authorities to allow him £75
for the job. “Border View, K.C.,” has made a good
fight for the cow cocky, who wins hands down against
his slanderers. The latter are accordingly directed
to drop each in the poor-box; a fortnight allowed
in which to find the money. As “8.V.” indicates,
the cow cocky is an estimable person, and would
never make his wife do the milking. She does it all
for pleasure, and he is quite powerless to stop her;
she gets up in the early hours of the morning merely
for the benefit of her health. The' Court will now
adjourn whilst the cow cocky gives three cheers for
himself and “Border View, K.C.”
* * * *
“J.G.” : For snakey districts commend me
to the Murray Plains of North Vic. Once saw a
water-hole about as big as a billiard-table alive with
tiger snakes practising mixed bathing. I eloped
with Matilda at a pace that took the breath out of
her. I few days afterwards I was on the Bendigo
railway-station, when the Swan Hall train steamed
in, and a wooden-legged, long-haired snake-charmer
got out of a carriage, lugging a well-filled bran-bag.
He reckoned he had a few snakes. He was right.
There were 86, mostly “tigers,” all caught the pre-
vious morning, in about two hours, near the spot
where I saw the water-hole full. I quite believed the
professor when he said that that part of Vic. was
the most thickly snakulated in Australia.
* * * *
“Gip” : Dogs, horses and cats are not the
only animals possessing the homing instinct. We
had a bull that dad sold to a neighbor on the Rich-
mond (N.S.W.), and that animal crashed out of
every paddock in which he was placed, in his deter-
mination to get to his old home. At last he was
removed to a leasehold about 16 miles out, whence
there was no hope of escape; and, as soon as he
realised that, he died within a month, although he
had the company of 60 to 100 head of cattle. There
was nothing the matter with him except homesick-
ness.
“9-3-11”: You can have all Australia, but
if it’s snakes and other reptiles you want, take the
Tweed River and welcome. Recently shot a “carpet”
there measuring 17ft. 4-1 in. and a gohanna 6ft. 4in.
Opened the ’go, and found in his parlor a tiger snake
3 ft. 6in. long and a smaller snake of the copper-head
species. The heads of both did not answer to the
roll-call, but everything else was there —unchawed.
I am now an advocate for the protection of ’go by
legislation.
TOWN AND COUNTRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In reply to a Bulletin bard, who extolled the
bushland to the detriment of the city.
Sang a bard in quite a recent
Column sweet of poetry:
“I am sick of this indecent
City’s red iniquity ;
Give me grass and trees and rivers,
Quiet lives and gentle livers,
And the bushland’s bosom free!”
But I’ve got a sort of notion
If the bard who warbled so,
Only knew the sort of potion
That the bushland shanties grow,
He would soon be running riot
For a change to drink and diet,
Such as pampered cities show.
He would sing another ballad
Ere he’d been a month away;
He would pine for city salad
In the land where muttons stray ;
He would write another rune up,
He would lift another tune up,
At no very distant day.
Let me mend his late petition,
And I hope he’ll lend an ear;
Like himself, ’tis my ambition
To knock off the townie’s gear;
But I want to mix the stories
Of the Bushland and her glories
With the city's brand of beer!
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
THE LION’S MAKE-UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Member had been bald for years;
His forehead, hairless, pink, forlorn,
Stood up above his widespread ears
Like some black hill at early morn.
So like a dawn-lit mountain bare
Was it that one who sat below
Remarked: “There should be eagles there,
And, in the winter, lots of snow.”
The Member’s beard was long and dense;
Snow-white beneath the lamps it gleamed,
And in a cataract immense
Over his waistcoat foamed and streamed.
“Here is your champion, tried and true!”
(The Chairman at the head and beard
Flung out an arm.) “He serves but you!”
The crowd uprose and loudly cheered.
“Here is your lion! Will you let
Him free to boldly spring at all
The grasping Socialistic set?”
(The cheering nearly wrecked the hall.)
Then, when the splendid tumult died,
A wight who seemed but ill at ease
Arose. “I’d like,” he shrilly cried,
“To ask a question, if you please!”
“Yes! What is it you want to know?”
The Chairman then for silence asked ;
The conversation ceased to flow;
The bald and bearded Member basked.
“Our lion! ” shrilled the doubtful wight—
(The Chairman wore a nervous frown)
“Somethin’ about him isn’t right!
His mane — he’s got it upside down!”
N.S.W.
FOE.


Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh —unnecessary. Try
CARTER'S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure Constipa-
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache, _ ,
and Indigestion, as millions Know.
fgh
Carters
ITTLE
VER
PILLS
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
ğj
A FINE FIVE=COLORED
PICTURE, showing Cap-
tain Cook’s Statue and the Aus-
tralian Flag, with Calendar from
July to June, will be sent free
of cost on receipt of your name
and address.
Please Write to
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
“The 1.0. A.,"
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart, Rockhampton, Townsville.
A.N.A, Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in-
dustries. 1 shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
SANDOW says i
PLASMON
is the essential food I have so long wished
for. I would never be without it.
Australian Depot: 5 & 7, Barraok Bt., Bydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Pick”: The object of the lyre-bird in
levelling and constantly dressing the circular mounds
common in bush lands is misunderstood. These
areas are called playgrounds, but in ploughing and
harrowing them the bird is after business, and the
gyrations and prancing, generally mistaken for his
dance, are not play, but grim toil. The lyre is, in
fact, a farmer, and the mound is his worm cultiva-
tion patch. I spent an hour lately watching one of
these toilers. He approached the cultivation-pad-
dock, scrutinised the surface critically, and searched
the borders for footprints of his neighbors. Some-
thing like a faint toe-mark on one side he carefully
examined; then he shook his fist and sparred furi-
ously towards where the “clonk clonk” of another
lyre came from the jungle. After blowing off steam
that way, he got to work digging up the worm crop,
and heaving over the fence the pebbles and twigs
turned out during the operations. The worms he
kicked out, with both feet going at once, never got
a wriggle in before they were bagged. When the
whole crop had been gathered, he raked up the
soil afresh, trampled it down lightly, and went over
to see about that toe-mark.
“Condamine”: lie “Bro’s” caterpillars
(B. 15/6/’ll). At certain times of the year in this
part of Queensland strings of caterpillars are very
plentiful. They are little brown fellows, about 2in.
long, and move in single file, each member of the
team keeping his feelers in touch with the one pre-
ceding him. The strings average about 2yds. long,
and their resemblance to a snake has made many a
man jump. I once tried to play a practical joke on
one of these colonies by gradually working the leader
around until his feelers touched the rear-guard, think-
ing they would then keep meandering in a circle.
The joke failed, as the intended victim at once be-
came as progressive as a Legislative Council. I then
removed the leader altogether, and the second mem-
ber, after feeling around, went on strike; but as
soon as the foremost one was replaced, the precession
made a fresh start.
“Eddyson”: The depressing view of the
bushwoman’s dull round has commended itself to the
Scottish Commission, and Australia comes in for de-
risive criticism as a country that works its women
to the bone. But gallantry is not dead in Aus-
tralia, and I am happy to be able to quote a case in
point—the case of Radge. Radge had sold out at
Millend, and was moving across country to get at
another 300 acres of arable land, near the Pinch.
The good man was accompanied by Mrs. Radge and
Tommy, the horse. Tommy bore a pack-load large
enough for a bull camel, and Mrs. Radge bore an-
other. Mr. Radge bore himself well. Towards them
came a gentleman in sacred orders, bestride a freckled
quadruped with a pendulous lip and housemaid’s
knee. Said the preacl er man: “Aren’t you ashamed
to allow your wife to carry such a heavy load?”
Radge looked at the matter calmly. “I dunno,” he
said; “where’s the harm?” “It’s an outrage!” con-
tinued the missioner hotly. Radge was convinced.
“Mary!” he called. “Mary, kim ’ere. This bloke
sez yer carryin’ too much. Gimme the beer; I’ll
drink it now ”
A NEW FEST.
NEWCOMER : “I suppose , then , if you had to
start afresh to-morrow, you would decide
to settle in the same spot.”
SUCCESSFUL SETTLER : “No flamin’ fear , I
wouldn't. There's too many strange fools
cornin’ round here askin’ silly questions.”
“Yarrum” : The kookaburra is not the only
Australian bird that kills snakes. Once, at Wauchope
(N.S.W.), I saw a large grey and white hawk tear
a green serpent from a tree, after a desperate tussle,
and go skywards with him. The green tree snake
(Dendrophis punctulatus) , as every bushman Knows,
is not venomous.
* * * *
“H.S.M.”: Some of the immigrants are all
right, but I got two of the other kind recently. They
swore blind they knew how to muster the 1200 sheep
in the paddock, take them to the yards and “salt”
them. The work should have been done by 11 a.m.,
and when there was no sign of the new-chums at
i p.m., I rode over to make some inquiries. Found
them busy in the yard. “Not finished yet?” I asked.
“Finished!” gasped one. “Lor’ luv y’, guv’nor, it’ll
take a month to finish that crowd.” 27ie coots were
rubbing the salt in the jumbucks’ wool.
FOILED.
SUSPICIOUS NEIGHBOR : "Did your mother have a rooster for dinner yesterday, sonme?"
SONNIE : “ Yes'ml."
S.N.: “A big one with black tail feathers?”
SONNIE: “Dunno'm. Mother didn’t cook the feathers."
“Panhandle Pete”: Marmaduke Bloke,
Esq., scored a good win recently. I was in a throat-
wash establishment, doing some experiments with
hollow vessels, when M. B. appeared. He ordered a
whisky with a lordly air, filled his glass nearly to
the brim, and then planked down sixpence. The
man behind the guns gazed in sorrow at the brim-
ming beaker, and ostentatiously handed over 3d.
“Lumme!” says Marmaduke ‘‘What’s this for?”
“Discount, sir!” replied the barman; “we always
give discount to the trade. You’re in the wholesale,
ain’t you?” “Well,” says his lordship, with a re-
signed air, “I’ll put it in the poker-machine, and
make it up to you that way.” He did—-and won 50
cigars.
* * * *
“B. Ginner” : I’ve had a lot of experience
regarding the mice plague mentioned by “Sliprail”
(B. 22/6/’ll). So far as Victoria is concerned, the
worst outbreak occurred in 1902-3. During that
harvest farmers were having great trouble with hosts
of rodents, and it was not until the disease got busy
that the farmers got relief. The plague killed the
little beasts by thousands; incidentally, it killed all
the cats in my neighborhood, and broke out on the
skin of my arm. As an experiment, I applied common
writing-ink,, and that cured me. Since then I have
used ink several times for the same purpose, and
always with the same success.
“Skeeter” : Allow me to nominate the bas-
tard apple-tree (cross between the box and apple)
for the Long Root Championship. Started the other
day to clean out an old shaft, at the bottom of which
is a bore 300 ft. deep, and found that roots from a
half-breed, standing 10ft. from the mouth of the
shaft, had climbed down the hole 150 ft. from the
surface. Judging by appearances they propose to
complete the 300 ft. journey.
“Tarago” : Can snakes see at night? The
opinion I have formed after long observation of
their nocturnal movements is that they cannot—
that, excepting in moonlight, they feel their way.
One thing I am sure of is that there is no founda-
tion for the old theory that snakes have nights-out
during certain months of the year only. Have en-
countered them after hours throughout the whole
summer, more frequently during a dry spell.
*** * ’
“S. Q. Wliyffe”: Beg to apologise to
“Montalex,” who (B. 22/6/111) raps me for writ-
ing “kinds” for “species.” I do not know the Dago
names for the two oaks quoted by me. I know the
trees differ slightly, yet clearly, in form, bark, leaf
and acorn, and greatly in the period of their winter
undress. Locally they are distinguished by the
names “mountain-oak” and “meadow-oak.”
* * * *
“Snakebite”: Can’t say anything as to a
snake’s objection to cross a white object, although
I know a number of bushmen who swear to it; but
I can say, with my hand on my conscience, that no
snake will cross a rope. In bad snake country I
never sleep in the open without laying an inch-rope
on the ground right round the camp, and I’m abso-
lutely satisfied that that is the only thing that pre-
vents the gentleman who walks on his stomach paying
me his respects.
“Dobbie”: “Yalgun” (B. 29/6/T1) asks
if there is any mining township in the Common-
wealth that is free from the Yellow Curse? There
is. Zeehan (Tas.) has a population of about 6000,
all white. Chows did invade the place some years
ago, when the silver city was booming. There were
about a dozen of them; but before they had time to
have a look round they were met by a deputation of
miners and escorted to the boat again. After a year
or so two more put in an appearance. The store-
keepers who supplied them with the few things they
wanted on arrival didn’t sell much for the next few
days, and the Chows departed—without escort this
time, and they’ve never come back. Rosebery,
Tullah, Williamsford and Dundas are also white.
They are in the Zeehan district. They are the only
mining townships I know of in Australasia that are
clean white. They vote Labor every time, and said
“Yes, Yes” at the Referenda poll, so they can be
forgiven for their climate —and their Kink O’Malley.
“Conclamine”: Let me put “Gip” right
about this rabbit-trap business. It is not the strength
of the trap that breaks and tears bunny’s leg, but
the somersaulting of the terrified animal. Any in-
vention that held a rabbit by the leg would thus
cause a fracture. There are a number of wire-net-
ting traps in use which are placed in the openingi
of burrows, but bunny gets “fly” to them, and rather
than risk sudden death starves himself slowly in the
back kitchen.
* * * *
“G.L.C.” : One more for the collection. I
was on the barren stretch north of Kalgoorlie when
I met Binghi, and, in return for information as to
distance and tracks, offered him a nip from my
flask. He was much obliged—so much that presently
I asked him if he would have another. “Well,
boss,” he said, “me never yet see plurry bird that
fly with one wing.” I was so tickled I nearly gave
him the tail.
“M.A.R.”: For the Aboliar who says that
poisonous snakes don’t climb, allow me to prescribe
a summer’s residence in any part of South Gipps-
land. I once saw a “tiger” ascend a big pine-tree
after a mud-lark’s nest over 20ft. from the ground.
The black snake makes a good second to the tiger,
which is admittedly the best climber of the family.
I wish they didn’t climb. One cold-blooded wretch
recently climbed into the canvas of our ceiling,
where he argues the point with the mice, and I’m
never sure that he won’t climb down some night and
argue the point with me;
“S.T.S.”: “Jobber,” who laments (B.
22/6/’TI) the eternal use of “That’s right” for
“Yes,” may be interested to know that a Birming-
ham man who came out for the Commerce Congress,
and wrote of his travels in his local paper, men-
tioned that remark as one of the things that had
struck him most in Australia. But it is no worse
than “only too glad,” the parrot-phrase of the day.
You can’t be too glad to do anything, unless you
have an unworthy riiotive behind —which is what
the phrase always implies when properly used.
* * * *
“O. Gracious” : ..Can say for the sharks up
hereabouts (Thursday Island) that they do not
draw the color line, and are almost as fond of their
nigger as the white shellers are. Only last week a
black boy, bathing in the harbor, had a leg snapped
clean away, and that is but one of several similar
instances that have come under my own notice. The
brutes will even devour Chinamen, a statement proved
by the fact that I caught a Pong’s pigtail on a big
hook not so long ago. It was inside a 12-footer.
ALWAYS GOOD.
COUSIN JOHN : "Thee ought be ashaamed ,
drinking beer.”
COUSIN JACK : "Thee can say wot thee mind
to 'bout beer. Beer be braave stuff in the
winter ’e 'll warm 'ee up, and in the
summer 'e 'll cool 'ee down.”
“H.S.M.”: The census papers really d'
keep their secrets, but this much from one of them
may be divulged to cheer things up a bit: —
Q.: Length of residence in the Commonwealth ?
A.: 1764 chains.
* * * *
“The Snake”: As nobody has provided
“Gip” with a painless rabbit trap, I suppose IU
have to do it myself. Lay a good sprinkling ot
pepper at the mouth of the burrow, so that, as
bunny goes in or out, he will raise a dust with his
feet. In the fit of sneeezing that follows he will
brain himself against the roof. All rights are re-
served.
PADDY’S NEDDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Bungalow they had a meet
For Christmas relaxation ;
The course was up the leading street,
The winning-post The Nation.
The Nation was the only pub,
And Pat MacGillicuddy
He dipped the glasses at the tub
And served the flowing ruddy.
The Cup was worth full seven quid.
Pat hissed, “There’s nothing in it
But that bay mare of mine, ,Th’ Yid!
I’ve backed the beaut’ to win it 1 ”
He was the hero of the hour,
This genial son of Erin;
And if his beer was somewhat sour—
Well, nobody was carin’.
He owned a horse —that was enough—
Of breeding and of mettle,
And he had backed it with his stuff
The rival mokes to settle.
One minute in the ti-tree scrub
The little field was lining,
Like bummers in a Western pub
When someone does the wining.
“They’re off!” Along the wattle flat
The frenzied mob went tearing.
“She have it aril th’ way!” cried Pat
’Mid much excited swearing.
But when towards the winning-post
The whipping jockeys swung ’em,
Poor Paddy howled, “Och, Holy Ghost!
She’s nowhere in among ’em 1”
When ev’ry snorting beast had passed,
Down to the Sergeant’s pony,
The heroine came in at last
Upon her Pat Maloney.
It was a played-out bay indeed
That pulled up at The Nation ;
Her jockey looked a shamefaced weed,
All dust and perspiration.
In Paddy’s eyes the anger welled,
His aspect would have pained you.
“In Hivven’s name, young man,” he yelled,
“That was it that detained you?”
QUEENSLAND.
F. KENNA.
A MERRY JAPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The A (IE informs cooks and food enthusiasts that
a Melbourne firm of paper-makers is busy upon the
kind of bags used in the latest craze of paper-bag
cookery.
To Solo Isle, where ’neath the palm
The celebrated chieftain lay,
Digesting in contentment calm
The foe he killed but yesterday,
A portly missionary went
To preach the gospel in a tent.
All day the jolly chieftain smiled,
And chortled in the slyest way,
As if by some bright thought beguiled.
Ilis missus asked: “What makes you gay? - ’
“I’ve thought,” said he, “a bright new gag—
We’ve got that preacher ‘in the bag.’ ”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


Wlx.ii p«per-l)»| l”^ 1 Mg nt
ssz “ “ ch bo "^r
should be , I.W xrato wwf" ,n tlle “““ M
First catch the thing to be cooked. The salt bag, <
for economy’s sake, may be used as a cooking
vessel. . •>
9 * v‘ ■■ . ■
Off to his day’s
work.
housekeeping made easy.
Ma cooks the dinner while pa goes on
with his out of a paper nose-bag, which
doesn’t interfere with his minding the
baby.
*** /
/ 6~o~*j '$ A*sc\ - I*
&“iS 9
41
J&X-- (txt. oyk/~"t*
0-4 cm 4 cJ4o o-4.4h^
~ /Vbu> .
The typical Australian swagman will have to be reconstructed.
Paper-bag cookery-a boon to bachelors
Paper-bag cookery is not new, It was known in
China 3567 years ago, when it was first introduced
by one Waw Kri Tin, who accidentally discovered that
one might roast a pig without burning down a house,
PAPER-BAG COOKERY.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
HATS.
F<\r
DURABILITY,
Speechless with Wonder
are the friends of those relieved of Indigestion, and
all Stomach Troubles, by Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules. Price, 2s. 6d. per tin.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Room on the honors list for Mrs. Hannah
Mills Robinson, who died at Narre Warren
(Vic.) a few days ago! She arrived in
Van Diemen’s Land with her parents in
1831, lived to the age of 90, and enriched
Australia with eight children, 33 grand
ditto, 38 great grand ditto, and two great
great grand ditto. With her husband she
crossed from Hobart to Port Phillip in
1837, and later left for Gippsland, where
she lived the rest of her days. Her husband
built the first brewery in Melbourne, and
thereby achieved great popularity, for those
were thirsty days in Victoria’s history.
F RANK MADDEN. Speaker of the
Victorian Legislative Assembly.
Henry Bull Templar Strangways, who was
Premier of S.A. so long ago as 1868, still
lives in England. He sat in the first Parlia-
ment, and he had much to do with initiating
the railway system and formulating the agri-
cultural land laws of the State. He also
championed the construction of the Trans-
continental telegraph line, which for years
was the only link between the Australian
capitals and the cable at Port Darwin.
Strangways has lived in Somerset for 40
years.
Commander Lindeman, R.N., who keeps
-an eye on Sydney’s shipping, is nearing the
retiring age, and Rumor remarks in a confi-
dent undertone that his successor will be
■Captain W. 11. Mason, superintendent of the
training ship Sobraon, the conversion of
which to other uses leaves him unprovided
for. _ Lindeman was secretary of the old
Marine Board before becoming Shipping
Master. The Sobraon’s ex-superintendent,
originally an officer in the mercantile
marine, joined the old Vernon, which pre-
ceded the Sobraon, and with over 30 years’
experience of the work, is generally admitted
to have done excellently within the limits
assigned him.
A DIFFERENT KIND.
"There are those who say that genius is but a
capacity for work—the fools!”
“ Yes, of course! No one will ever mistake
you for that kind of genius.”
Unless someone else hurries, Australia’s
next volume of home-grown short stories
will have the name of Miss Fitzmaurice
Gill, lately of the “Miss Gibbs” Co., in the
front of it.
One never knows one’s neighbor. A Co-
burg (Vic.) person, no doubt, seemed a verv
ordinary pursuer of bread-and-butter till he
died; then he blazed in an obituary advt.
as—•
Descended from the Hon. J. Fraser, first Lord
Fraser and Lovat; related to the Earl of Breadalbane ;
also the famous Scottish soldier, Sir Simon Fraser,
of Oliver Castle, llis grand-uncle was General Sir
John Douglas, K.C.8., of the Royal Marines, groom
of the Privy Chambers to his Royal Highness the
Duke of Sussex.
This paper is sorry to hear that W. H.
Judkins, after a game fight with a serious
malady, has had to hear an adverse verdict
from the doctor. He underwent a serious
operation a couple of years ago; but the
trouble has recurred —and it is a very
dreadful trouble indeed.
F. A. Ivrull, of Wanganui (M.L.), who
was appointed a German Consul 50 years
ago, and is now retiring, has had his long-
service recognised by being made one of an
exclusive 50 members of the Order of the
Crown. He also owns the Order of the Red
Eagle, though a pen of plain brown leghorns
would probably provide him with a better
breakfast.
“W.G.L.” concerning some ancients: —
“E'.E.” (B. (6/7/Tl) suggests that John Melbourne
Gilbert, still living, may have been the first white
child born in Victoria; his arrival happened on De-
cember 19, 1835. John Melbourne was years too late.
H.M.S. Calcutta was escort to the convict ships
which attempted to form a penal settlement near Sor-
rento in 1803. On board were Sergeant Thomas and
his wife; and the lady was landed at the settlement,
and there gave birth to a child. The next was pro-
bably Richmond Henty, of Portland, a son of Vic-
toria’s first settler.
“Julep”: To clear up a point, raised by
the Oldest Inhabitant —Felix Spiers, who
died lately in England, was the original
Spiers of the Spiers and Pond firm; the
other partner died in 1882. Spiers and Hen-
nelle started the Cafe de Paris, at Mel-
bourne Theatre Royal. Pond replaced Hen-
nelle. He went to England in 1861, for a
look round, and suffered indigestion through
eating a bath bun at a railway bar. That
made him think. And after thought came
vigorous action. On Pond’s demise Spiers
formed himself into a limited company; for
the survivor knew that the other’s had been
the chief business brain.
Jim Gordon, S.M., of Adelaide, nearly
expired on the bench, the other day, when,
immediately after defendant had pleaded not
guilty, his solicitor arose and asked for
clemency. “But,” gasped Gordon, “your
client pleads not guilty.” “Ah—er—is "that
so?” said learned counsel. “With your
Worship’s permission I would ask for leniency
just the same.” The case proceeded, and
eventually Gordon remarked to the defend-
ant : “You have pleaded not guilty, but I am
afraid the Court is inclined to agree with
your counsel.”
A very improper baby which once arrived
in Sydney was debited to an officer of the
Lands Department, and he having neglected
to fully meet the demands made upon him,
a deputation of three, with a strongly reli-
gious flavor, waited upon the Minister of
the day to “ask his advice”—and incidentally
of course to put this giddy clerk’s pot on.
Before I go any further, gentlemen,” said
old Jack Robertson (who detested sneakery
and snuflle), “I have a question to ask:
What is the sex of the child?” “It is a
boy, Sir John.’; “Well, sir,” said old Jack,
my advice is— don’t drown him; keep
him ; he may grow up and become a bishop.”
Interesting Carrie Haase,
the very unusual Melbourne
elocutionist, is at present
in England, advertising her-
self and her nationality.
Lately she recited before a mob
of “importants” at the Savoy,
her subject being “Australian
Bush Ballads and Stories,” and
her tariff half-a-guinea, “with
tea.” A few weeks previously
she was annexed by the Man-
chester Gaiety Theatre for a
production of “The Trojan Wo-
man,” given under the direction
of Professor Gilbert Murray.
The young lady played leader of
the chorus, and the Manchester
press threw bouquets at her.
Prime Minister Fisher seems
to be the lucky one of the
family. Brother John died after
reaching the top of a high post
in the London detective force;
Robert, a mining engineer in
Borneo, was killed in a railway
accident; James rose quickly in
an iron mine in Spain, and was
killed there; William died
young. The father died in ISB7,
when the children were mostly
small, and the mother battled
with typical Scotch grit to keep
the home together. She died
nine years ago.
Maoriland is recalling the
numerous baronets it has had,
and, after George Clifford, the
racing man, it lingers most
lovingly on the memory of one
whose forte was the smashing
of chemists’ windows. Nobody
seemed to know the wherefore of his eninitv
> but, after one spell of gaol and
briel liberty, he would have another spell for
another broken window. There may come a
time when, on Cohen’s vigorous refusal to
renew the bill, lou Ward will develop a
mania for tearing down pawnbrokers’ sign-
balls.
t^ie half-yearly elections for the
Melbourne Trades Hall Council. C. Rawlins
was for the forty-eighth time in succession
apointed keeper of the shekels. The council
has had him for a member for 41 years.
By strenuous efforts the Bent memorial
committee has combed together a whole
xowO, and tne fund will close next month
Ihe committee has decided to erect a statue
or Rent, not im its natural Footscray sur-
roundings, however, but in the Brighton
Beach Gardens.
, r Th ? recent hanging of the 17-year-old
Maori boy at Auckland recalls the fact that
the first neck stretched in Australia be-
longed to a youngster of the same age named
James Barrett. For theft he was strung up
on March 6, 1788—the year the Union Jack
and its handmaiden, the flogger’s lash, first
whistled in the Sydney breeze.
Vic.’’: Apropos the old Melbourne Bene-
volent Asylum, now in the house-knacker’s
hands, after being auctioned for £2300. Ex-
Premier Bents father was a sort of con-
tracting bricklayer on the building, and made
enough out of it to open the Bricklayers’
Aims, at Moorabbin, near Brighton,
lommy Bent worked as a brickie’s boy on
the job.
Recently expired, in his eighty-fifth vear,
John Walcott Fosbery, of Caulfield (Vic.).
He hrst came to Victoria in ’4B, and emerged
from the oO s. with a promising job in the
Melbourne police. Subsequently he climbed
up various rungs in the Public Service
ladder, and, when he retired a few years
back, was Chairman of the Audit Commis-
sioners.
The execution of the Maori boy at Auck-
land, for the murder of a gumdigger, recalls
that the hrst formal murder trial in Maori-
land was held in the same town 69 years
ago. The first Judge was William Martin,
1S sessions (1842) a young
chief named Maketu was charged with the
slaughter of a widow, her two children a
man-servant and a half-caste child. Maketu
was given up by his tribe, otherwise the
pakehas would hardly have got him. The
Maons knew he was the murderer, and the
elaborate trial by jury half-amused them.
, tih, when it was all over, and Maketu was
hanged, they admitted that he was killed as
dead as they could have done it themselves.
“Melb.”: Ex-Justice' Hartley Williams
• ias ,9 mte got b ac k into his old ruts
in Melbourne, and seems determined
to stay there. Men like this go to
London with a resolve never to see
barbarous Melbourne again; but the fog
chokes them. And Williams really is Aus-
tralian, with a good deal of Australian con-
tempt for appearances and superstitions.
How he startled the old fogeys by biking
from Bendigo to Ballarat while on circuit
as a Supreme Court Judge! He and Jus-
tice Hood were Yarra rowing men. Hood
who develops a likeness to the Iron Duke
Welhngton, was one of the crack Richmond
tour ; the other three were Mitchell bro-
thers, sons of the brewer.
mi?s°pTKf i Sai v to <4 us H ead and much "
missed Douglas i ry : “Isn’t it a curious thing
AnJtS wh I °-, pa T? t ® Q S*i sh horses, come to
Australia, while Frank Mahony, who paints
Australian horses, goes to England?” “Yes,”
track* 1 w But Mahony is on the wrong
track. He paints horses as they are.”
ought to°be.” ° h ’ 1 Paint h ° rSes as they
David Strachan, who has been wool-
hrohing if* Geelong for 35 years, as a mem-
Dennys-L&scelles firm, re-
tired the other day, the senior partner tak-
ing over his interest. Strachan, however, is
not fleeing to Britain to cry Stinking Fish.
He will pitch his cloth-of-gold tent ih Mel-
bourne, and remain connected with the Gee-
long business in an advisory capacity.
The days of old Mataafa, who was the
Sanioa,n King Malietoa’s trusted lieutenant
I ** the trouble with Germany, are drawing to
an end. He will die a pensioner of the Ger-
man Government, and with him will die
vm l as t hopes of independence.
\Vhen Mataafa, after Malietoa’s deporta-
tion to the Cameroons, set up as king
against the German puppet Tamasese, he
made a vigorous fight of it. for fighting is
in ins blood; but the combined forces of
England, the U.S. and Germany were too
strong, and he had to give in and accept the
inevitable, witn a pension of 4000 marks.
He is a mild-mannered, pleasant old gentle-
man of 80-odd years, a devout Catholic, yet
a believer in kava drinking, dancing and
other now-forbidden things.
“Singemoine” on tombstone praise :
A paean of praise followed Douglas Fry to his grave
last week. The Sydney press mentioned that he had
gifts of the rarest order,” and that “the world
would _be tne poorer for his loss.” One paper re-
marked that the A.J.C. would have done itself a good
turn if it had commissioned Fry to paint every turf
champion in sight; and it mused fondly on the
glories of a racing club’s committee-room whose
walls were covered with pictures bv this peerless
horse-painter. The tragedy is that these sheets had
only faint praise to lavish on Douglas Fry when he
was alive. The dead artist had a hard row to hoe
despite his unique talent. His proud and shy tem-
perament prevented him from touting for work.
Latterly, it is true, he was forging ahead by sheer
force of merit. But, at the best, commissions only
came, as it were, in single spies. A few appreciative
newspaper pars, would have changed all that. The
A.J.C. committee, for example, is composed of citi-
zens who know no more of pictures than they do of
Sanscrit. But if those newspapers, from which the mem-
bers get their political views, had assured them that the
paintings of Fry would be valuable acquisitions for
their club, they would have ordered them with
alacrity, thereby benefiting in one act the club
and a none too flourishing artist. The adjuration,
“De mortuis,” etc., has been perverselv mis-trans-
lated by our local sheets. They render 'it, “Do not
speak well of a man till he is dead.”
HIS PREFERENCE.
NO. I: “For an old chap, old Moneysplosh
has a fine presence, don t you think? ”
NO. 2: “Yes, but if you owed him as much
as I do, you'd prefer his absence
At the Eketalinna (M.L.) Court the other
day a young fellow of 80 was hauled up to
explain why he shouldn’t be ordered to con-
tribute toward his elderly father’s mainten-
ance. The elderly father is alleged to be
110; and the Court decided that, as the
youngster was well-to-do, he might now rea-
sonably start giving father a lift.
Two more N.S.W. pressmen have just
left the Inky Way to go on the
land and chase the festive and num-
erous pests from the crops—Pentreath,
of the S. M. Herald, and Ilamsay, of the
Newcastle Herald. They both go to Yanko
irrigation farm, to get ready to seize a lump
of Sam McCaughey’s late estate. This
makes about a dozen that have left Ma’s
city and country press with the same object
within the last year or two. Fred Wearne
is coaxing lucerne on the Darling Downs;
Frank Wilkinson, late “Soil” man on D.T.,
is watering lucerne and growing orange trees
at Wentworth; Pascoe, of the Herald, was
last reported doing great work with an axe
up near Mudgee, clearing the way for a
wheat crop ; and there are others who medi-
tate an early departure.
ST. PAUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the Empire Roman women held a position,
equal, if not superior, to that of men before the law,
and divorce was perfectly easy. But the doctrine of
the Old Testament, together with St. Paul’s idea of
women, doubtless helped to sweep completely away
the glories of the past. —Miss Enid Durham, an Ad-
vanced Victorian lecturess.
• St. Paul he was a preacher with a mind robust
And a good, tough tongue as well,
And he talked about the women in a way which must
Annoy each demoiselle.
He knew about the Apple Tree and all about the:
Fall,
And so his words were strong;
But I wouldn’t much relish for to be St. r.'nl
When Woman comes along!
In St. Paul’s discursive letters he who runs may-
read
The terrible views he’d got;
He said the state of marriage was a state folks need
In the place of You Know What.
So Woman she was banished to a dull, dark Home,
By a Wretch was tamed and bossed,
And the golden Free-and-Easy of dear old Rome
Was al-to-geth-er lost!
The matrons who are wedded may perhaps find grace
In a man of Paul’s strange thought,
But it horrifies a spinster that a creed so base
For a moment should be taught.
In addressing the Corinthians he grew quite bold,
And they heard with a meek, sad stare ;
But a spinster from Australia would have got good
hold
Of the saint by his long saint’s hair !
To an Independent Female, St. Paul’s coarse plan
Is a thing she scarce can name,
For to wallow in subjection to a mere male man
Is a life of scorn and shame.
The Oriental Sultan with the loose-lipped grin
(Whose ways you well may guess)
Is kin to the Apostle who is now roped in
By the vengeful lecturess!
VICTORIA.
P.


VENUS-A Tobacco of incomparable sweetness, purity
and quality. Sold in Cut Double FlaKe 2oz. Tins
and 2oz. and 4oz. Plugs.


WORTHINGTON PUMPS
For
General Service.
Boiler Feeding, Mining, Marine, Irrigation, Hydraulic, Water Works, etc.
For CATALOGUES and
INFORMATION apply
32 8 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“THE EDWARDS” ORE ROASTING FURNACES
ECONOMY IN LABOR, FUEL AND MAINTENANCE.
Write for Catalogue and Prices to—
FRASER 8 CHALMERS, LTD., London; STEARNS-ROGER MFG. CO.. Denver. U.S.A.
T. EDWARDS. Ballarat. Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
An agitation to ‘do something for the
ipioneers” has started in Queensland; and Premier
•Denham was asked the other day to hand out free
•railway passes for life, 160 acres of land apiece, and
a few other trifles. On the whole, while barrackin';
ifor old age pensions for pioneers, this paper has an
'idea that Queensland would be better occupied doing
[something for posterity. The pioneers did pretty
well for themselves. Down to the first year of the
Commonwealth they had grabbed no less than
113,323,524 acres, and made it their own property, and
‘had another 2,585,996 acres in process of alienation.
They paid something, though not usually very much,
Ifor this land —generally speaking, the" best in the
State —but they spent the money in paying the police-
man's wages, instead of taxing themselves to do it.
They didn’t put one visible penny of these land-sale
iproceeds into permanent and reproductive works. To
the end of June, 1910, they had borrowed £44,276,067,
or over £75 per head of the population; and, though
they have worn out a heap of the things that the
borrowed money paid for, they left the debt as good
as new, carrying an annual interest bill of
£1,635,270, equal to no less than £l2 17s. 6d. per
annum for every household of five persons. Though
they spent nearly 3 p.c. of the total debt on roads
and bridges, which bring in no revenue, and are
temporary things at the best; and another 7 p.c. on
immigration ; and another 4 p.c. on public buildings ;
and another 10 p.c. on odds and ends, they didn’t
put up so much as tuppence to a sinking fund. They
just borrowed, and “blewed” the money, and often
let the thing that they spent it on go to rack and
ruin rather than ante-up a trifle to buy paint, tar,
and a few nails, and they threw the bill for the
whole lot into the cradle for the baby to wrestle
with later on. And now, with the best part of the
public estate gone, and the I O U’s coming due, the
pioneers look in on the baby, and ask him if he
doesn’t think it is up to him to do something for
the old man.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melbourne): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £3226 5 p.c. = £2250 £976 £12.020
June, 1904.. 5352 5 ~ „ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec., 1904.. 3332 5,, „ 2250 1082 16,204
June, 1905.. 376 S 5,, ~ 2250 1518 17,722
Dec., 1905.. 5577 6,, ~ 2700 2877 20,599
June, 1906.. 5466 6 „ ~ 2700 2766 23,365
Dec., 1906.. 7061 8 „ ~ 3600 3461 26,826
June, 1907.. 4432 6 „ ~ 2700 1732 28,558
Dec., 1907.. 4271 6 „ ~ 2700 1571 30,129
June, 1908.. 4892 8,, ~ 3600 1292 31,421
Dec., 1908.. 4657 6 „ ~ 2700 1957 33,378
June, 1909.. 5965 6 ~ ~ 2700 3265 36,643
Dec., 1909.. 4523 8,, ~ 3600 923 37,566
June, 1910.. 4994 7 ~ ~ 3150 1844 39,410
Dec., 1910.. 5659 7 ~ ~ 3150 2509 41 919
•June, 1911.. 5416 9 „ „ 4050 1366 43,’285
This co., besides making a very fair return to its
shareholders, is performing valuable service in popu-
larising in Victoria the idea of appointing’ a pro-
fessional trustee to do trustee work. Whoever is
responsible for the co.’s literature knows his sub-
ject, and knows also how to get others to know it.
As a matter of fact, the co. has been pioneering all
its life. It always seems to have had the idea that
the risks of the business are bigger than is thought
by most people, and even by most trustee
cos. Hence it started with a paid capital
greatly in excess of that of other trustee cos. ; and,
though it has been pushing up its dividend steadily,
it is evidently deeply impressed with the need of
strong reserves. It was a pioneer in another way,
too ; for it had the bad luck to show that, no matter
how careful a trustee co. may be, it is liable to fall
in badly. The trouble in its case arose over deposits
in banks that went bung; and, though the legal
opinion at this end was that the co. was on firm
ground in law, as it certainly was in equity, the
Court which had the last word said the co. had done
wrong, and must pay. And it paid; and that is
one reason why, though the co. is a third of a cen-
tury old, the reserves are still less than half the
capital. Moreover, two-thirds of those reserves have
been accumulated in the past eight years. Big, ex-
pensive mistakes will, however, happen very rarely,
given good and experienced management; yet since
they are liable to be big when they do happen, it is
not safe to go on any one term’s profit—a wider view
must be taken. On that wider view, as shown in the
table, the only conclusion possible' is that the co. is
not only doing well, but is also doing better. Quite
plainly, the co. hasn’t had many bad knocks during
the last few years. But from" that it isn’t to be
assumed that bad knocks can never come; for when
securities are moving up, the beneficiary isn’t likely
to make trouble. It is when things go the other
way that he looks for somebody to crucify.
The value of estates in hand is £9,176,957. Ten
years ago the total was £6,388,976. That, perhaps,
may be taken to roughly represent the increase in
business. And, though the trustee co. will no doubt
offer larger benefits as time goes on, it seems certain
that more and more business will go to such cos.
when it is realised that (1) they are expert in this
business, and give their whole attention to it; (2)
they give guarantees for its proper performance; (3)
they never die or leave suddenly for parts unknown.
The guarantee given by this co. consists of £90,000
of capital and the reserves. Of this money, £65,000
is in freehold, and upwards of £52,000 is in public
securities or other liquid assets.
* * » *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.): —
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903 . £1529 10 p.c. = £750 £779 £5,147
June, 1904.. 1268 10 „ ~ 750 518 5,665
Dec., 1904.. 1503 10 ~ ~ 750 753 6,418
June, 1905.. 1547 10 ~ ~ 750 797 7,215
Dec., 1905.. 1834 12 „ ~ 9)0 934 8,149
June, 1906.. 1773 10 ~ ~ 750 1023 9,172
Dec., 1906.. 1858 12 ~ ~ 900 95S 10,130
June, 1907.. 1758 10 ~ ~ 750 1008 11,138
Dec., 1907.. 1940 12 ~ ~ 900 1040 12.D8
June, 1908.. 1980 10 ~ ~ 750 1230 13,408
Dec., 1908.. 1957 12 ~ ~ 900 1057 14,465
June, 1909.. 1507 10 ~ ~ 750 757 15,222
Dec., 1909.. 1421 12 ~ ~ 900 521 15,743
June, 1910.. 1351 10 ~ ~ 750 601 16,344
Dec., 1910.. 1913 12 ~ „ 900 1013 17.357
June, 1911.. 1826 10 ~ ~ 750 1076 18,433
The co. is in 20,000 shares of £2 10s., paid to 155.;
and the directors have it in their minds to pay up
another ss. out of the profits when there is £5OOO
at credit of Profit and Loss account. After the pre-
sent distribution there will be £3433 ; so in 12
months from now, if things go as they have been
going lately, the shareholders may get their little
tit-bit. The co.’s position is very solid; no less
than £29,881 of its capital and reserves is in public
securities and cash; and that must be grateful and
comforting to the co.’s clients. The profit is, as
usual with trustee cos., very glittering indeed; on
capital and reserves combined, the past 12 months’
net earnings were equal to just about 12 p.c.—won-
derfully fine figures considering what comparatively
small risks a well-managed trustee co. has to take.
* * * *
The Bank of North Queensland :
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1903.. £2153 2J p.c. =£1313 £B4O £16,022
Dec., 1903.. 2408 2J „ ~ 1313 1095 17,117
June, 1904.. 2251 2| „ ~ 1313 938 18,055
Dec., 1904.. 2421 2| „ „ 1313 1108 19,163
June, 1905.. 2262 2J „ ~ 1325 937 20,100
Dec., 1905.. 2310 2£ „ ~ 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 2J ~ „ 1330 1131 22,215
Dec., 1906.. 2644 2£ „ „ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 „ „ 2113 905 24,4 9
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4,, ~ 2122£4000 21,678
June, 1908.. 3677 4 „ „ 2129 1548 23.226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 ~ ~ 2652 4500 20 144
June, 1909.. 4314 5 „ „ 2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909.. 4641 5 „ ~ 2666 1975 23 775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 „ ~ 2668 5000 20 824
Dec., 1910.. 4838 5 ~ „ 2671 2167 22,991
June, 1911 . 4851 5„ „ 2671 4000 21,171
A bank can’t get nearer than an estimate of its true
position; and when an honest management shows
steadily increasing profits, it can be taken as a hint
that, in the management’s opinion, things inside are
steadily improving. Often the management believes
that its real profits are greater than it shows; but
in good tunes it knows that it ought to be preparing
for the bad times that are pretty certain to follow,
and the best of its preparation it sometimes doesn’t
show. There certainly are banks—and this one may
be among the number—which could show bigger
profits and make larger additions to reserves; but
they know that those reserves are liable to be drawn
upon presently to provide for bad debts, and a bank
doesn’t like drawing on its visible reserves and ad-
mitting to bad debts when it can help it. Hidden
or secret reserves may no doubt have an unpleasant
sound ; but the principle is all right. A farmer can
no more fairly count his history by the month, and
say that he is losing a lot of money when he sows,
and making a lot when he reaps, than a bank can
count its history by the half-year. Times of unusual
prosperity are the bank’s harvest; but they are also
the times when it starts hatching bad debts and
losses, which may, however, not come home to roost
for years. It is for this reason that banks’ published
balance-sheets in particular don’t say the last word
regarding how the concerns are likely to come through
in the end, because one bank may show all the pro-
vision it is making, while another may be making
provision and putting it up its sleeve.
The North Queensland is one of the little fellows ;
but it isn’t such a little fellow as it was. It had its
troubles, and for a time afterwards kept the indi-
cator at “Dead Slow”; but the figures show full
speed ahead in the past 10 years:—
Liabilities.
1901. 1910. 1911.
Deposits .. .. £242,101 £641,672 £810,892
Bills, etc 86 855 59,160 29,180
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 120.492 231,044 302,304
Advances .. .. 301,615 558,243 620,108
Premises .. .. 20,022 40,038 45,501
Total liabilities thus amount to £840,072, which is
equal to practically £7 for every £1 of the capital
and visible reserves; and it probably isn’t safe for a
bank to take more of the public’s money, than that.
Not, of course, that it will refuse the money; but to
reduce the risks both of its clients and of its own
shareholders, it will then think about issuing more
shares. The time seems to have about arrived when
this bank must take that step, though, in order to
make sure of the success of the issue, it may wait
till it has got its dividend up to 6 p.c.; and that
probably won’t be until the management * reckons
that it is unnecessary to transfer any more profit to
contingency account and write the amounts off, as
shown in the table. That contingency account is
presumably being used to write down assets. Still,
judging by the earnings, there shouldn’t be much
over-valuation now; it was no doubt very different
a few years ago, but the recent great increase in
values has given such banks a fine chance to realise,
and careful nursing has done the rest. On combined
capital and reserves the profit of late has, therefore,
shown the following substantial return: —
Deo., 1906.. £4 6 7 p.c. I June, 1909.. £7 3 7 p.c.
June, 1907.. 417 9 „ Dec., 1909.. 712 5 ~
Dec., 1907.. 5 8 4 „ June, 1910.. 712 5 „
June, 1908.. 6 010 „ Dec., 1910.. 8 0 2 „
Dec., 1908.. 612 1 „ June, 1911.. 717 9 „
The cash position is reasonably strong; 36 p.c. of
the deposits and other debts are held in cash and
other liquid assets.
* * * *
H. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants, etc.
(Sydney)
Dividends.
Pref.
10 p.c. To Re- Re-
Profit. p.a. Ordinarv. serves, serves.
Sept.,’o6.. £5,674 £2OOO 5 p.c. =£937 £2,737 £2,737
Mar., ’07.. 4,267 2000 6 „ ~1125 1,142 3,879
Sept.,’o7.. 8,466 2000 7 ~ ~1992 4,474 8,353
Mar., ’OB.. 7,499 2000 7,, ~2209 3,470 11,823
Sept.,’oB.. 7,472 Nil 7,472 19,295
Mir., ’09.. 7,362 Nil 7,362 26,657
Sept.,’o9.. 6,539 Nil 6,539 33,196
Mar., ’lO.. 8,873 2000 7 p.c.= 2029 4,844 38.040
Sept.,’lo.. 10,248 8000 14 ~ ~ 4088 36,200
Mar., ’ll.. 16,437 2000 10 ~ ~2899 11,538 47,738
That may be right or it may be wrong. It is a
frightfully mixed business. When the co. was
formed the public was offered 10 p.c. cumulative
pref. shares, the preference being good for seven
years. The co. started with too little capital, and
got rather heavily into debt. Possibly the bank was
not as enthusiastic as it might have been; so as the
co. really needed the money, the pref. dividends,
though usually declared, were not paid, but were
passed to a reserve. Then some divs. on the ordinary
shares were treated in the same way. Six months
ago the reserves, plus unappropriated profit, totalled
£48,288. Out of that, according to the directors’
report now issued, £12,088 has been paid in divs.,
reducing the total reserves to the £36,200 shown
above. The reserves on Mar. 31, plus unappropriated
profit, totalled £52,637; and tbe difference between
those two totals is, or ought to be, the profit for
the term—£l6,437. But that includes £10,005
transferred to the Depreciation Fund. It is im-
possible to say what that Depreciation Fund is.
Possibly it is not a set-off against current wear and
tear, etc.; anyway, £2645 is charged separately
to Profit and Loss. According to the Profit and Loss
account, after providing the beforementioned £2645,
the half-year’s net profit was £9705 ; but that dis-
regards the movements in the reserve accounts. Al-
together it is a complicated business; and probably
it is intended to be. As mentioned above, the re-
serves, plus unappropriated profits, on March 31
were £52,637, made up this way:—
Dividend reserve .. .. ..£15,293
Equalisation of dividend .. . . 3,250
Depreciation .. .. .. 20,785
Unappropriated profit .. .. 13.309
Total £52,637
There is nothing to explain what the dividend reserve
is; presumably it is some fund designed to give the
ordinaries a taste, notwithstanding the cumulative
pref. provision previously mentioned. From the
total of £52,637 the present divs. take £4899, leav-
ing the £47,738 shown in the table.
The directors say the net profit was £9705, and
that is exclusive of additions to Depreciation Fund,
though some depreciation is apparently provided
otherwise. The table on top of these remarks alleges
that the profit was £16,437. But it may have been
more even than that; it could be shown so, at any
rate, by another reckoning. On the poorest figures,
however, it may be admitted that the co. is doing
extra-well. The directors, getting off the ordinary
track, say they “have no hesitation in stating that
the co. is one of the soundest concerns of the State,”
a remark due probably to the suspicion that at one
time the co. was over-trading. Its financial position
has unquestionably improved. Total liabilities are
shown hereunder:—
Sept., 1906.. £14,042 Mar., 1909.. £89,701
Mar., 1907 .. 31,415 Sept., 1909.. 50,801
Sept. ,1907.. 39 848 Mar., 1910 .. 45,606
Mar., 1008 .. 38.342 Sept., 1910.. 45,112
Sept., 1908 .. 60,368 Mar., 1911 .. 32,468
The accounts are now presented in more detail;
they show book-debts, £42,368 ; plant, etc., £52,768 ;
stocks and advances, £77,700. While the
boom in building and construction lasts, the
trade is no doubt highly profitable. Most people,
however, build because they see other people build-
ing ; it is an epidemic. It is highly probable, there-
fore, that the present boom—State and private—will
be followed by a depression; and, though forest assets
may go on adding to their value during the dull
time (as they did in the case of the Kauri Timber
Co., for instance), the depreciation of other assets
will be continuous and severe; and the turnover will
certainly be much reduced.
* * * *
Australian smelters, copper-smelters espe-
cially, are in trouble again. German and other
buyers are offering prices against which the local
men cannot compete. The Waratah (N.S.W.) fur-
naces had to shut down lately for want of ore, and
other custom works are known to be in a bad way.
If they shut down, some more smelter-hands will be
thrown out, and the men who have been raising coal
and _ making coke, etc., will lose the work that the
foreigner will get. But that isn’t all. The small
copper-miner, who finds a market and quick returns
for his little lot, will be in danger of being frozen
out; for the foreign buyer, who has to ship his ore,
hasn’t much use for the little man who can only
supply a ton or two at a time, and can’t afford to
wait till he has accumulated more. As for the bigger
producer, he is no doubt in clover for the moment.
But if the local works were knocked out, he would
probably soon find himself being fed with thistles
instead, and told that that was his proper food.
It is necessary to understand, first, why the foreign
—mostly German—buyer is offering such extraor-
dinary prices for ores and partly-worked-up products;
and what has happened and is happening in connec-
tion with copper may be taken as fairly typical
of what is happening to the lot. Pour years "or so
back there was a great copper boom; and most of
the best authorities said it was going to last. Mines
were opened all over the place, and metal was poured
out. European smelters —mostly very rich Jews—
added to their old works and built new ones, both
for smelting and for refining. They made contracts
with big producers, covering the output for years
ahead. Now, economical smelting depends on secur-
ing a proper smelting mixture; and to get that
mixture the German smelters are thirsting for the
high-grade ores, and especially the matte, that Aus-
tralia can supply. By-and-bye, when the present
special demand eases off, the foreigners’ smelting or
returning charges will certainly go up, and the net
price obtained by Australian producers will go down.
Then, of course, the Australian smelters would be
able to get the ore and matte. But by that time,
unless something is done, there probably won’t be
any Australian smelters.
Only in recent times—say 15 or 20 years—has
Australia been dealing with its complex ores ; and be-
fore that it did no metal-refining. What this country
lost in those days, and what some other country
gained, will never be known. For very many years
Cobar sold its copper to German refiners, and never
got a penny for its gold. It didn’t even know there
was gold in the copper; and the German refiners
took care not to tell them. Had the work been done
in Australia, this country would have been the richer
by all the gold that went to make the European
smelters and refiners so wealthy that to-day they
can afford to lose a good deal in the effort to knock
out Australian custom smelters and refineries. And
even after the late Dr. Helms found the gold in the
Cobar copper, and spoiled the Germans’ profitable
little game, the refining charges were preposterously
high until Australia had the means to do its own
refining. It is a well-known fact that when the
Mount Morgan people promoted a refining co., Ameri-
can refiners offered to do the job for over £1 a ton
less than the co. had previously been obliged to pay.
Allow Australian custom smelters and refineries to
be knocked out, and Australian producers will be
back in the hands , of the same foreigners, whose
object will naturally be to squeeze out of them the
last possible penny.
The indirect advantages of keeping the metal-
lurgical business in the country are incalculable.
You never can tell what this work will lead to. For
years a foreign co. played with the Broken Hill zinc
tailings, and professed that nothing worth doing
could be done with most of them. Germany had its
own zinc mines; and it wasn’t likely that it would
be eager to show the Broken Hill cos. that they could
add one-fourth or one-fifth to the world’s supply.
But a new school of Australian metallurgists was
being educated, and presently the flotation process
arrived. To-day Australia ranks second among the
zinc-producing countries of the world, Broken Hill
has a new lease of life, and S. Australia has kept
its most profitable customer for railway freight, etc.
Now Tasmania hopes to share in this zinc business.
Hitherto practically all the zinc concentrates have
gone to Europe for distillation or smelting. But a
scheme is afoot to harness up the electric power to
be derived from the Great Lake, and erect big elec-
trolytic works for the production of metallic spelter
from the zinc concentrates. Having the metallic zinc
on the spot, manufacturing industries will follow
almost for certain. No wonder, then, that the enter-
prising foreigner likes to get hold of the raw or
semi-raw product; for that is what he has been
building up his strength on, step by step. And new
mines as well as new industries owe their birth to
local metallurgical works. The most consistent
copper-producer in the eastern half of N. S. Wales
is the Grafton Co.’s mine at Cangai. Originally
one or two men were gouging out copper from this
mountain. They had no capital; but there were
works at Waratah, near Newcastle; and when they
had gouged a load, they sent it away to those work 3
and got enough to pay their tucker bill, with a bit
left over for themselves. Other men came along,
and, having this handy market, started gouging too.
Then some Grafton people looked in, and the holes
Were turned into a mine. Now close on 100 tons of
copper a month are produced—which means £50,000
a year produced and spent one way and another in
Australia.
The disinterested person will admit that, for these
reasons, the smelting and refining business ought to
be done in Australia. The question is, How is it
to be got here and kept here? A deputation sug-
gested the other day to Acting-Treasurer Carmichael
(N.S.W.) that a differential rate might be charged
on the railways—less for ores and matte smelted
here than for those exported. But it isn’t the func-
tion of the State railways to discriminate in that
way. It would be a roundabout way of introducing
Protection; and Protection or Freetrade is a Com-
monwealth ‘>”'l not a State matter. There remain
the alternatives of an export duty and a bonus. An
export duty on crude or partly-reduced ore would, if
it were high enough, compel the producers to get
the dirt out in Australia, give Australia the job that
now goes to the foreigner, and provide Australia with
metal for its home-grown manufactures. Against
that it is squealed, ‘‘But consider the poor miner!”
As shown above, the poor miner is best served by
having works on the spot. The big company, which
produces largely, might be a little worse off at the
moment, just as the Australian consumer of anything-
you-please may be worse off at the moment for not
being allowed to buy the goods at the ridiculously
cheap price at which the foreign dumper is prepared
to supply them, for the purpose of knocking out an
Australian industry or stopping a threatened one
from starting. But no friend of Australian progress
dreams nowadays of allowing the dumper to play his
game. And there are other ways of playing the
dumping game besides flooding the market with
clothes-pegs when somebody pronoses i
factory. Even, then, if an export dutv Hm he ?' peg
shade of difference to the detriment of the* 3
ducer, the last word wouldn’t be said on the matF r °'
for the mineral wealth of this coun ry Tsn’t to be ex
ploited merely to produce the last possible pound
in dividends. The development of a nation & the
paramount consideration; and vou can’t
nation here by rooting oit the ore and U 4 “me
other nation at the other side of the earth the Sr
more elaborate job of separating the metal from the
With an export duty possible—the natural
plement of Protective duties on imports-there
seems no reason why the country should pay a bonus
The Commonweafth has plenty to do with its revenue
without handing it out to produce results which can
be just as effectively produced some other wav. All
that need be done to protect the producer, and get
him m the end probably better results than he could
achieve by relying on the foreigner, is to watch the
local smelters and refiners’ returning charges If
they put up those charges beyond the average ruling
for the previous (say) five years, then either off
should come the export duty, or, better still, State
smelting and refining works should be established
on the German model.
* * * *
From a metallurgist: “The people who
are so strenuously against an export tax on concen-
trates and ore suggest that Australia is deficient in
technical skill, and that it will take years to get
our metallurgical works as perfect as those in Ger-
many. True to some extent; but that is the very
reason why we should have a Government metallur-
gical school supported by a tax on exported ore. A
tax of Is. per ton on zinc concentrates would alone
almost maintain a laboratory for experimental re-
search in zinc metallurgy. That the B. H. Prop, is
making progress with zinc distillation is very en-
couraging; still the business is in its infancy, and
requires helping. The returning charges on zinc ore
are high, but that is the best reason for local treat-
ment ; it means that the cost of the smelting business
is great—in other words, that the foreigner gets a
lot of employment out of it. In the month of June
the Amalgamated Zinc Co.’s works (Broken Hill)
produced 12,108 tons of 48.6 p.c. zinc concentrates,
which returned that co. £35,979, or slightly under
£3 per ton of concentrates, though the metallic
spelter in a ton of concentrates is worth about £12.”
* * * *
The “bulls” are having a good time in
the Broken Hill market. The developments in the
British have no doubt been important; but they have
no bearing on any other property. Nevertheless, they
have helped the “bulls” of almost every other stock.
The find in the bottom (1715 ft. level) of Block 10
is much more significant. At the level above it
looked as if the bottom of the main Broken Hill ore-
shoot had been reached. The 1715 ft. now shows both
a bigger body and a richer one; latest assay is 250 z.
silver, 17.8 p.c. lead and 14.8 p.c. zinc. The ore
doesn’t, however, appear to be any more tractable
than it was in the workings above—it is a hard
garnet sandstone, and the losses of metal in concen-
trating that class of rock are appalling.
B. H. Block no is next door to the B. H.
Prop. ; and if Block 10 has payable ore at a
greater depth than had been thought likely, there
are better chances for the south end (block 11) of
the B. H. Prop. The ore shoot in the Broken Hill
lode dips north and south from an apex in or near
Block 14 ; but there is no knowing how rapidly it
dips, or whether it dips regularly. All that is known
is that Block 14 has passed through it, for nothing
of value can be got in the bottom, and the same is
true of the north end of the B. H. Prop. What has
yet to be proved is the depth at which it passes out
of the B. H. Prop, at the south end. The further
away from the horizontal the bottom of the shoot
is, the more ore there remains in the mine; and
this discovery in Block 10 suggests that the bottom
is further from the horizontal than had been thought.
For some years past the B. H. Prop, has been putting
a gloomy face on its own mine prospects; it has
suited its book to do so. As often remarked here,
things are probably a good deal better than they
have been made to appear.
Mount Brown copper mine, seven miles
from Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.), was originally pros-
pected for gold, but turned coppery at depth. The
crosscut at 128 ft. vertical has been driven some 70-
odd feet. The lode reached at 55ft. carries some
good veins of ore. assaying from 6 to 11 p.c. copper.
This is encouraging, but a great deal of work re-
mains to be done before Mount Brown can hope to
produce any large quantity of metal. The copper
should carry high gold values. Rich assays of gold and
silver make a copper proposition look attractive; but
the separation costs much money, and gold and rich
copper don’t often go together. While they lasted the
most profitable mines have been those carrying rich
copper, but very little gold and silver. Burra Burra,
Peak Downs, and O.K. are dead examples.
* * * *
Queen Bee (N.S.W.) struck the western
lode at 90ft. from the shaft, and good assays are re-
ported ; but the Queen Bee seldom gave poor assays,
and still the profit was very disappointing. Now
that there is plenty of time to prepare the western
section for another smelting campaign, comparatively
better results may possibly obtain, though there is a
much poorer market for copper nowadays. A lucky
mine development is always possible in a show sub-
ject to local enrichment; and that is really what
keeps the wheels moving.
* * * *
Harden (N.S.W.) is still on the wrong
side. The revenue for June was £1430, while the
expenditure, apart from anything spent on develop-
ment and plant, was £1485. The future is still
gravely uncertain.
To date Great Boulder (W.A.) has pro-
duced gold to the value of over 7£ millions sterling,
of which shareholders have had £356,300. Accord-
ing to Chairman Doolette, there is to be no reduc-
tion in the present rate of dividend for the next four
or five years at least; but the present condition of
the mine at depth doesn’t warrant this- cheerful asser-
tion.
* * * *
Chairman G. B. Doolette, replying at the
Great Boulder meeting to “Oof Bird’s” criticism of
the mine (B. 4/5/’ll) : “I am sorry to find that
statements made under the protection of hidden iden-
tity have had any weight whatever with shareholders :
but it is clear from inquiries made at the office and
from letters that I have, that they have upset nervous
shareholders, who have evidently felt that, so far as
the co. is concerned, the end of the world has come.
Had they, however, reflected for a moment, they
would have realised that there is no ground for fear,
as there are sufficient reserves of ore in sight to keep
the mill running for at least four or five years; and
who, I ask, is going to say that we will not develop
an equal quantity of ore to carry us for a similar
period ?” Well, all that can be said is that the
management’s opinion of the mine coincides with
that of “Oof Bird,” and doesn’t agree with that of
Mr. Doolette at all. It is true that there is now over
four years’ supply, and as there is still a lot of par-
tially-developed ore in the lower levels above 2500 ft.
to be taken into account, next year’s estimate of re-
serves may not show much of a drop in tonnage or
grade. But the cold, hard fact remains that, with
the main ore shoot lost to the Golden Horseshoe, the
mine has every appearance of being permanently dis-
abled. Other temporary market pick-me-ups, in the
shape of new bodies of ore, may be found east and
north, as time rolls on ; but with the backbone of the
mine gone, only the threatened maintenance of pre-
sent dividends for four or five years, coupled with
backwardation and the official assurance that the cash
in hand and profit in sight nearly equal the present
market price of the shares, is keeping the stock from
slumping badly. #
Great Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) shows a
Profit and Loss credit of £8664; and as there is
no depreciation account, it is proposed to start one


Skilled Organisation
Brings Success.
Expert management to-day accounts for
businesses quickly taking the lead, caus-
ing chagrin to competitors. The live
concern, ever ready to improve, pro-
gresses. Half-hearted, misguided methods
invariably bring failure. We’ll skilfully
and successfully work your company,
float your undertaking, and arrange for
subdivision and selling of your suburban
or country estate. We also act as Trus-
tees and Attorneys under power. Call.
Telephone—Central 2437.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
(CAPITAL £150,000).
J. EARLE HERMANN, Managing Director.
B. J. McDOUGALL, Sec.
Imperial Buildings,
16 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne}
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [1
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
The
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
with £2OOO, and carry forward the balance of
£6664. The 12 months’ operations at the St. Ceorge
mine, Magnet, resulted in a working profit ot £b4s9,
minus £3522 expended on new plant, shaft-sinking,
etc.; while royalties received from tributing on the
Kalgoorlie lease about equalled exes. Ore reserves
are estimated at 15,000 tons, assaying 6.7dwt.; but
new finds made since the compilation of the report
are expected to add considerably to this stand-by.
A further dig at Lake View and Star s
annual report shows that all but £BOOO of a total
income of £172,000 was absorbed in exes., includ-
ing London office pickings, and the balance was
mopped up in writing off preliminary charges and
depreciation. The yield averaged 235. 9u. per ton,
and costs absorbed 225. 4d., leaving a surplus or
Is. sd. per ton. When the books were closed, the
Co.’s cash assets were just a trifle less than its lia-
bilities. -
* * * *
Somebody signing himself “Yorkshire Re-
lish,” has been telling the Gwalia. Consolidated direc-
tors in London that they treat shareholders with the
greatest indifference as regards news. He states tnat
the last information given out was in November,
when something was said about crushing being re-
sumed in a few weeks. Since then nothing further
has been heard about the matter; hence Yorkshire
Relish’s” complaint. The Bulletin said long ago
that the property was a hopeless bag of tricks, and,
although this opinion was disputed by the chairman
of the co., subsequent results have shown it to be
very near the mark. _
* * *
Picture of Coolgardie and its outskirts:
Whole rows of shops are tenantless, and the few re-
maining inhabitants deplore the steady dwindling ot
population, and have appealed to the Government to
stop the rot. In some cases not even the poppet-legs
remain over shafts which were once on gold. Bonme-
vale, which a while ago had the eyes of Australia
on it, over the rescue of the entombed miner, Varis-
chetti, is now a goat-infested locality of creaking
doors and roofless houses.
* * *
The managing director of the Greenfinch
(W.A.) is that tremendously careful engineer, if. a.
Pettigrew; other parts of the management are
all they should not be. On the strength of a rich
short shoot at 50ft., shares were rushed to 65.; then
they came back to 2s. 5d., and now there has been
an upward movement to nearly 45., without any
reason being given by reports from the mine. Un
the field itself the same secrecy is observed and,
though appearances may be all wrong, it looks very-
like a few inside people working the show to suit
the market.
* * *
Hampden Cloncurry (Q.) ran it s copper
furnace during May and June under experimental
conditions. During the run 3780 tons of ore were
smelted for 299* tons copper, 2770 z. gold, and 38290 z
silver. These metals were contained in 917 tons
matte, so, on the average, it called for rather more
than three tons of that product to make one ton of
copper. Though with the present type of furnace a
high-grade matte cannot be produced, it is possible
that the percentage of copper will be increased a
trifle; in fact, the June run was an improvement on
the 550 tons, containing 154 tons of copper, for
May. Taking copper at £5O, the 7.9 units of cop-
per extracted from a ton of ore are worth £3 195.,
and the total, including Bs. worth of gold and silver,
is £4 7s. In addition, there are some middle fur-
nace-products. It isn’t likely that a profit was
made, for it is a costly business to bring 32 p.c., or
even 40 p.c., matte up to pure copper.
Oaks Rush (Q.) spent £2156 last half-
year (to June 30), and had a revenue ol £l4lO,
which looks like a loss of £746; but a good deal ot
development work was done, and a. null plane
(bought partly with calls) is ready to start on.a
fair paddock of ore. The report says: During the
term 310 tons were treated at the Welcome mill tor
346*0z. smelted gold. Sands realised £137 ; concen-
trates not vet sold. Ore broken, 380 tons, which
should yield about loz. to the ton.” (The quantity
has since been increased to about 450 tons.) no
estimate of ore reserves is made; in fact, it can t
be said perhaps that any ore is really blocked out.
The co. owes about £lOOO, after deducting liquid
assets (not including ore broken). The co. is in
60,000 shares paid to 2s. each.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, con-
tinues to increase its output; the last return tor a
fortnight was 632 tons for £3042, following the
June output of 1177 tons for £S6LS. The monthly
sixpenny costs £3087 ; five have now been declared,
and there are more in the bag, for the mine will
probably average 1200 tons a month for this writer
won’t hazard how long, and nobody else can do it
without guessing. The Mexican has the upper
levels of the Day Dawn, the formation which has
given the New Brilliant Freehold on its northern
boundary a profit of £lOO,OOO, £75,000 of which
has been paid in dividends. On the western boundary
it has Mills’ United, with levels continuous with
those of the Mexican down to No. 6, after which the
underlay takes the reef into the N.B. freehold. As
a rule the Day Dawn formation is wide, so there
are generally two parallel drives on separate veins
of stone. No. 5 east level has been driven 776 ft.
from the boundary, and has a nice formation in the
end, but only 3in. of mineralised stone. No. 4 east is in
156 ft. in broken country. Further ahead, at 224 it.
east of the shaft, the rise from No. 5 level carries
30in. of mineral stone, so there is a good deal ot
uncertainty as to how No. 4 is going to shape.
Gympie (Q.) returns for June ; 12,535
tons for 58740 Z. gold; divs., £8758; calls, £4315.
Chief producers were: Scottish Gympie, £3OO tons,
16450 z.; No. 3 N. Columbia, 1055 tons, 828 oz. , S.
Glanmire and Monkland, 1312 tons, 8230 z. ; No 2 S.
Great Eastern, 855 tons, 5600 z. 5 No. 1 N. Co < J u ™°-‘g’
581 tons, 2460 z.; Columbia Smithfield, 89 tons,
2250 z.; E. Oriental and Glanmire, 61.8 tons, 14/oz.,
Columbia Extended, 191 tons, 950 z.; No. 1 N. Lon-
don and Bristol, 30 tons, H6oz. Dividends were
declared by Scottish Gympie Gi d -) = J 1
S. Great Eastern (3d.) = £lBOO ; S Glanmire and
Monkland (3d.) =£1500; No. 3 N Columbia (4d3
£1333. The half-year shows 67,792 tons tor
29,7140 z. ; divs., £24,866; calls, £23,635. F
the same period last year the returns were 69,078
tons for 35,0090 z.; divs., £31,250; calls, £24,164.
* * * *
For a run of six weeks to June 17 Kal-
amadau (off the Papuan coast) crushed 1234 tons
and cyanided 1100 tons, for a total return of
The estimated profit for the run was £550 and this
shrinkage has caused disappointment. The directors
are wisely holding on to a few thousands, because a
great deal of shift sinking and other development
remains to be done. The new shaft is down 309 ft.,
and at the present rate of progress will take five or
six months to complete. The stopes sho
faces, but the deepest level (No. 4 south) is in rather
low-grade stuff. * * *
Under the strong arm of John Egan,
Star of Erin, Enoch’s Point (Vic.), has emerged from
obscurity rin it wasn’t run in a hard-mining way in
the old but when new men stepped into other
men’s shoes corners were rounded off and rough
£dges straightened. Not that the lode was wide or
rich, but more settled country was got into, and
with expenses kept low the show has got into credit.
The previous tit-bit from Pandora’s box, picked up
bv and his friends, was New Dempsey s, which
went fdte high. While Star of Erin is a compact
miSe no share fluttering is justified, until No. 3
level’proves how far the manager is right in assum-
ing that the three shoots of gold dip underfoot.
Burnt Creek* Dunolly (Vic ), ambles
along quietly on the borderland of Do-Something.
£62,262 represents paid.-up capital; Heaven
knows what is the value of the gold put back into
the mine. Burnt Creek’s weakness is that it wont
rise above the 12dwt. mark when actual mining has
to be done. Water is heavy, and there aren t the
runs of gold that make the Duke Consols, higher up
the gutter, the prince of Victorian alluvial proposi-
tions For six months Burnt Creek has prospected
north, south, east and west from rises off the main
west reef drive, and it has punched into the gutter
off No. 3 rise in the north-east. Result, 18dwt. dirt
has been got from the drives. Per contra, the Cath-
cart reported nothing in its drives, yet the dirt went
ounces. There isn’t any chance of this happening
at Burnt Creek, for its gold is fine, and the drives,
therefore, should more nearly indicate the real value
of the wash. Still it is hard to accept 17dwt. in
the light of the past average of the gutter and the
lower-grade dirt the Duke Consols has had to lace
of late Burnt Creek holders don’t work the market,
so thev deserve a Cathcart surprise rather than a
Bullfinch awakening. # #
New Moon, Bendigo, lias a reserve of
£l5OO, otherwise it would be too close to calls to
please. The grade of the dirt handled is indicated
by 10,200 tons yielding 2081 oz. gold, or a trifle
over 4dwt. Costs all round worked out at 17s 6d.
“per load,” and the battery 2s. 4d. The “load has
no place in the book of tables, and the co. ought to
discard it in favor of the ton .pure and simple.
Aline now is benefiting by the tribute svstem ; par.,
ties of men are trying to hit on payable spurs off
the big reef. The co. has its shaft to 2425 ft. in centre
country. It ought to go ahead there, as with some
gold showing in the quartz there is always a chance
ahead. Suffolk stone is being opened up, but so far
it has disappointed everyone.
* * *
F. S. E. Drury speaks for the Briseis
Board now Lord Chesterfield has gone into active
politics. Shareholders grumble at the change, for
Drury is as self-contained as a Chubb safe. If the
words he speaks be not those of engineer Currie,
may someone be smitten with palsv I Ivrushka s
Flat is to average 45 tons a month for three years.
Surely enough to promise the continuance of the
“sprat” that is flung to Australians at odd intervals!
The value of the operations at Krushka s, which Drury
did not hint at, is that they will indicate what will
be met over the river in the Rmgarooma lease.
There the shell of basalt is thicker and tougher
than little Lewis had on the New Brothers Home
No 1. Consequently three holy years will be spent
in prayers that the underlying drift will pan out up
to the 41b. got in the shafts, and not at the 2iß>.
obtained from the bores.
* * *
The Lyell Co.’s North Mount Lyell is
still proving valuable ore between 1100 ft. and
1000 ft. levels. The spread of the body as it is
risen on means, however, that it is contracting
rapidly at depth, which may account for its im-
proved quality on the floor of the 1100 ft. level.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) is to pay a divi-
dend of 7s. 6d. -per share ( £4500), which is at the
rate of £5O per ton of tin concentrates produced.
Bischoff owes most of its good fortune to a well-
devised svstem of haulage and to the low cost of
breaking tin-bearing material. It is quite possible,
though, that slips of surface rock will increase
costs; heavy snow makes the big open faces slide
away with alarming suddenness. The wonderful
mine has declared during its 30-odd years 412 divi-
dends, totalling £lBB 10s. per share.
* * * *
After seven months’ rambling about, the
Stanley Reward Co. (Tas.) seems to be approaching
the verge of the deep lead. Last clean-up gave
3 tons 4cwt. black tin from 5000 yards wash and over-
burden, equal to 1.431 b. per cubic yard. The actual
wash averaged 5.121 b. per yard, but there was not
much of it. This took 325 hours to break and ele-
vate, with about 3000 gallons of water per minute,
at a pressure of 300 ft. vertical. Costs, about Bd. per
yard. Wash, about half stone. The face last week
was in about 4ft. of wash, with 4ft. of overburden.
Bv turning their course a little to the N.E., they
should soon reach the known deep lead indicated by
the Government Geologist, and bored to a depth of
39ft Of this there is proved about 15 to 20 acres
worth 31b. to 41b. to the yard. Melb. Argus says
60-80 acres, worth 71b. to the yard. Well, the co.
owns 160 acres, and there’s room for the latter
amount; but up to now, like the good fish m the sea,
it has not been located in that quantity.
* * * *
All the information shareholders got out
of the Commonwealth Oil Corporation’s report and
accounts, which were to have been presented m Lon-
don on June 27, didn’t do them much good. There
is no report signed by any responsible officer
merely a directors’ statement, of the usual
vague kind, signed by the secretary. The one
report which might possibly be from some
responsible officer, is—“ Started Newnes retoits
on June 12 ; oil now being produced; plant working
perfectly.” That is introduced with the sentence:
“The following cable message was received to-da.y.
It would have been more satisfactory if the directors
had said who sent it. “The accounts have been pre-
pared on the lines approved of by the shareholders
last year, no revenue account being included. In
other words, shareholders have the least possible
chance of following the 12 months’ history of the
dreadfully mismanaged concern. Briefly, this is the
position.' The co. is loaded with £72j,00i of
capital; and it owes £421,586 to debenture holders
and £15,084 to other creditors. (This was to Sep-
tember 30; say, £25,000 has since been added to
this load.) Over £106,000 of this is admittedly
represented by nothing whatever; this money has
gone in preliminary exes, and administration, etc.
Besides that, £300,000 is the nominal value of the
properties, plus (say) £70.000 paid for the Shale
and Oil Co.’s property. Also, there is the interest
on the quarter million or so put into the railway,
which work has earned practically nothing, (it is
a wasted quarter-million; but that is another
matter.) Of course the new retorts are going to
make the co. rich. Shareholders may be assured
that the new works will do nothing of the kina.
They cannot save the co. as it is at present consti-
tuted. Indeed, it is doubtful whether anything can.
At least half a million must first be written off as
unrepresented by assets of any value whatever.
* * *• *
The Yankee way with a low-grade copper
show. Figures are for a month’s run at the Boston
Consolidated. Rock milled, 44,335 tons; assay,
1.5 p.c.; extraction, a shade under 1 p.c. Concen-
trates assay 18.8 p.c., so the mill requires 19 tons
of crude stuff to turn out a ton of concentrates.
Average cost of milling, 2s. 2d. per ton of rock.
At the Arizona mine the extraction is 421 b. of cop
per, or nearly 2 p.c.; but it is admitted that, in
handling enormous quantities, a better profit is some-
times made from the lower-grade stuff operated un-
der favorable conditions. Mount Bisehoff (Tas.) is
one of the few propositions that get level with the
copper porphyries. Bisehoff handles the crude crush-
ing stuff for less than 4s. per ton. Concentration,
instead of being from 19 to 1 of copper, is at the
rate of 200 to 1 of tin, and the average extraction,
instead of being 421 b. of copper as in Arizona, is
only 101 b. of tin oxide. It is questionable whether
any of the American mills that extract 221 b. of cop-
per per ton (about the same value as Bischoff’s 101 b.
of oxide), can “see” the latter in the matter of profit.
* * * *
“Rich Uncle from Fiji” : Being an enemy
of The Bulletin, I hereby introduce it 1 .0 the pro-
spectus of the International Investment Co., Ltd., of
Maoriland; and I exceedingly hope The Bulletin
will invest and lose its socks, and be forced to wear
Prince Alberts for the rest of its life. The pretty
little prospectus underlines: “Government guaranteed
securities. Fixed and regularly paid interest. Re-
peated opportunities for drawing a fortune. 1 remium
bonus.” It introduces itself by stating that it en-
ables the “poorest man or woman a chance to save
money . . •• while the system of drawings gives every-
one a large number of chances of securing prizes of
very great value which would make him wealthy and
independent for life.” This is only one of the Conti-
nental lottery systems attempting to acclimatise it-
self in Maoriland. The municipal and State bonds
concerned pay a lower interest than Australian
bonds; but something must be done to find the prizes
of £40,000, £24,000, £20,000, £12,000, £4OOO,
and down to £4O per bond. Moreover, the win-
ning of the prize automatically cancels the win-
ning bond. The interest varies from 3 p.c. to l
p.c.: but they are nearly all 2 p.c. bonds, while a
few carry no interest at all. You wonder why these
philanthropists do these things for the poorest man
or woman.” There are several reasons. One is
that, by advertising combinations of bonds, they may
get off some rotten ones with the rest. You can buy
one ' “combination” for £22 10s. cash, or £2O o
time-payment, and “the smallest, sum which can be
drawn under this combination is about £33, the
highest about £47,000.” And 2 p.c interest, safety
of principal and only £22 10s! Wonderful! Or
with another “combination , for £42 cash, or £4B
fime-Davment, the lowest you can draw is £4», tne
highest 7 £53,000. More wonderful! lh e strictest
secrecy is observed — on no account will w
divulge the names of bondholders drawing pre-
miums.” That, of course, might be handy to the
clerk who is speculating with the petty cash, but
let’s hope it won’t be too strict to allow of the check
imr of alleged results. But what are the six direc-
tors and the solicitor and the auditor and the secre-
tary to get out of it, and whence comes the money
to pay the rent? # *
“W CM”: lie eucalyptus oil . and its
highly successful use in the mineral flotation process
fR 22/6/’ll'). The price quoted (/d. or od. per id.
fo.'bTis rather low. At present Colemane is paying
4id to sd. to his distillers, and as much as 6d. per
lb is offered by one or two others. The oil has to
undergo a process of refinement before being .sold to
the niinino- cos., and this, plus freight, must bring
the totel beyond 7d. or Bd. per lb. The price usually
given 0 to the producer of the raw stuff is 9s 6d. per
tank From this is deducted 55., to be paid to the
cutter A tank will yield from 201 b. to 401 b of
oil according to the nature of the ground the tree
or bush grows upon; but 231 b. per tank is a fair
average The competition is, however,, so keen that
grSn'leave^anfplacecf'oii 1 and the lid is clamped
the steam’ and the oil, as it rises to the surface of
StfVSS S~rSv£. VSlYcutter
can cuf one and "half tanks a day, thus making
7s 6d.; but stoppages are frequent owing to wet
weather heavy frosts and other causes. the tree
from which this particular flotation oil is got isl the
peppermint, of which there are huge forests, practi-
cally untouched. In N.S.W. the tree grows in moun-
tainous country, in the Braidwood, Bungendore and
Lake Bathurst districts, and as far west as Tumu .
Oils distilled from other trees —Argyll apples> : mess-
Last year the* Rand (S*African) mining
cos treated 21,432,500 tons of ore, of which
18,127,250 tons were crushed by dividend-paying e^-
£ e 3 n o 114 965, and the market valuation £92,375,150.
Shareholders received £8,876,086, equal to 9s. 9d.
per crushed ton. ,
-ft
treacherous Teremakau, to carry the water for sluic-
ing- # * * *
Taranaki (M.L.) ironsand is again to
MUSS
and a buttoned-up pocket. *
The S.A. Government has thrown open
son nno acres of farming land during the twelve-
-8 ccV 0 h °u lß t ended and has another quarter-million
assets. » * *
Fvfry engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give c lf e a “f tlo^ h e 0 Hvatt P Flexible 8 Rolled
«£, °rt££- saari
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the. Austrian Agents,
W J Lempriere, Melbourne, or B. •
house and Col? of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.* # *
“FERRODOR” Paint.—Specially mamifactured fo»
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected oy
ADAMS* 6 CO., C LTD B , mciiit sKet, Sydney.*
*
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
The BELL’S ASBESTOS CO., LTD., London, hav-
ing purchased the works of the ci-devant United
Asbestos Co., is extending its manufacturing opera-
tions. Apart from producing every known appliance
of Asbestos for mechanical engineering and Asbestos
Packed Boiler Mountings and Steam Valves, the
company has erected a plant for the manufacture of
Asbestos Wall Sheets and Roofing Tiles, known as
“Poilite,” being the only factory in Great Britain
making this new fireproof building material. Head
office in Australia, 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 3 465): “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* LI
* * * *
Extract from the Financial News, London
(29/8/1910): “A young Life Office has many diffi-
culties to contend against, and in its early years the
progress of its business must be comparatively slow ;
rapid growth can only be expected when a certain
amount of success has already been attained, and
the business on the books has reached a total of
some magnitude. To this general rule, the Colonial
Mutual is certainly a striking exception. From the
outset the Society has been remarkably successful
in obtaining business, and its rise to a position of
eminence has been exceptionally rapid.*
WILL IT LAST ? is the question to ask in consider-
ing a pipe-line installation. If WOOD PIPE is de-
cided on the answer is: “Yes; longer than steeel or
iron.” The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Balmain,
Sydney, tell the reason why in their catalogue.*
SIMPITROL AIR GAS—the light that is nearest
davlight and almost as cheap. The Simpitrol Air
Gas System has all the advantages and none of the
disadvantages of other systems. It is simple, abso-
lutely safe, and is the most economical light you can
have, costing one-sixth that of electricity, one-quarter
that of oil, and one-fifth that of acetylene lights. It
is not explosive, and does not entail tedious winding
and regulating of burners. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia), Ltd.,
84-88 William-street, Melbourne. Dept. W.*
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street. Sydney.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil,
ease of starting, no complicated arrangement of
valves, and autcmatic lubrication, and these are testi-
fied to by Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 25
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* [1
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
“McSchneider” on the child-slavery dis-
grace :
I paid a visit to my native heath a few years since,
and was approached by two dairymen, working for
wages. They were getting 355. per week and etcet-
eras, such as free house-milk, and certain provisions
half-price. (The wife in each case helped with milk-
ing. Where children —not infants, but children over
school age—were employed, they were paid separ-
ately. Infants are not engaged in the dairying in-
dustry in the land o’ cakes.) Both dairymen wanted
to come to Australia and settle on the land; they had
a little capital, much experience, and promising
families, and were most eligible people in every re-
spect. I was compelled to tell them they were better
off where they were. There’s no secret in it, either.
The canny Scot milks well-bred and well-fed cows.
The Australian cow-man milks half-starved and non-
descript scallywags. Milk is the same price in both
countries. Butter is cheaper in Australia, but, then,
the land is cheaper too. Have known £2O to be paid
for an acre of sown grass and the same for a like
area of turnips. Yet it paid and paid well, for the
produce was fed to sleek, comfortable crummies in
warm byres, who paid it all back in overflowing
buckets. ” Three gallons per diem is crummy’s mini-
mum output. If she falls below that, off she goes to
the butcher. Six gallons is a yield by no means un-
common. Municipal returns (no other available)
give one quart per diem as the average yield of the
alleged cows which supply an important town in
Queensland. The mongrel cow, with her bull-calf,
and the niggardly cocky who starves both of them,
and incidentally' his infant family and himself as
well, are the curses of the great Australian cow in-
dustry. No wonder we can’t attract immigrants, and
have to slave our poor kiddies 'to deformity and
death!


Charles Heidsieck
SEIMS
EXTRA DRY
ĵgf
FINEST EXTRA Q?
Clx'Sacred Oils
Absolutely the only remedy guaranteed to remove
lines and wrinkles, cure faded complexions, and tone
up relaxed facial muscles. This secret compound
has been handed down from generation to generation,
until it has become the sole property of the Nuns of
Yaldajov, Servia.
“The Sacred Oils” possess a remarkable power in
removing those signs of age which most women
dread. No woman need have lines, crowsfeet, or
loose, baggy skin now that “The Sacred Oils” is
obtainable in Australia. Write to Westall Guest
Toilet Specialist, 38 Chapel Street, Windsor, Vic'
Advice and pamphlets free. Price, ss. bottle; post,'
® s ' Sydney Agents—
MISS CUTHBERT, Otis Chambers, 82 King Street
MRS. SHEARER, 64 Strand Arcade.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROS.
ROBVB
rs. :k-s
Awfully glad to see you—let’s
go and have a jolly drink—
what’s say to a cup of tea?—
by jove, I’m so glad you pre-fah
tea, because if 1 drink anything
else, 1 find it goes to my bw-rain
at once, and makes me feel
awfully stupid, don’t-cher-know.
They tell me Ro-bah is just
pu-ah tea —and pu-ah tea is
awfully good fo-ah one, don’t-
cher-know. My gurl tells me it’s
the only thing that puts her
moth-ah in a good hu-mah, and
I’ve been pw-raying ever since
that the old lady will have
had her cup of Ro-bah bef-oah
1 go to interview her, dont-cher-
know.
The Johnnie.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1800, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 17, 1911.
My Dear Aeini, —
Paper-bag cookery is here. Probably it
has come to stay. The dull occupation of
scraping out a saucepan won’t sink into a
lost art straight off, but it is going to fade
away gradually into the limbo of miseries
forgotten. At the Tech. College, last week,
Mrs. Nicholls, who was in Miss Munro’s
place for the day, proclaimed her faith in
the new cult. She is not yet a convert to
the baked joint in paper, for the mere rea-
son that she hasn’t tried it. “Here’s the kind
of bag in which we boiled fish yesterday—it
looks like grease-proof paper with a parch-
ment substance. When the fish was cooked
the paper hadn’t even changed color. After
the pork chops were cooked, their bag was
just slightly browned. In the ordinary wood-
and-coal oven, you want grills—just opeu
bars —put on to the shelves. The gas stove
generally has the grill shelf, as in this.”
Here was the sacred stove that demon-
strated with such savory results the triumph
of the gravy-proof bag. The end, which
opens its mouth to swallow food supplies, is
firmly rolled over aud fastened in place with
two clips. _ The household which clamors
for gravy will now be able to wallow in it.
The paper-bag is practically non-absorbent,
and the housemother’s temper (as a conse-
quence) will be less subject to leakage in
the matter of the made dish.
Sydney people are smiling broadly at the
severe economists who declined, “on prin-
ciple,” to subscribe one farthing to the
Lady Dudley presentation picture—alleging
vaguely by way of excuse, that the
Dudleys had been unsatisfactory vice-regals.
Yet it was noticed that they were all at the
recent Government House At Home where
the work was on view, and it is unkindly re-
membered that there was not one Govern-
ment House entertainment of the Dudley
regime, that they didn’t flock to when they
were invited. In view of such happenings, it
is understandable that there should be what
the S. M. Herald of last Monday called “a
substantial feeling, standing for a consider-
able body of the aggregate of citizens,”
against the N.S.W. Government’s proposal
to resume possession of Govt. House. The
vice-regal establishment provides for this
body free food, drink and music ; one or more
objects, for the purposes of libel and slander,
who are unable to hit back; and no obliga-
tions, that need be regarded, in the way of
repayment for hospitalities rendered. These
things are luxuries which no social body is
going to forego without violent protest.
The cable tells of trouble in the household
of the High Commissioner. Motoring in
London on Sunday, Australia’s heavy-weight
and two-thirds of his family were broadsided
by another car. When the wreckage was
sorted out, Australia’s old friend was found
to have an arm broken in two places, and a
daughter suffering so badly from shock that
it was a case of a nursing home for her. The
boy—there are two in the Reid establish-
ment —apparently, crawled out more or less
unhurt.
The Admiralty lady has just signed the
pledge and vowed to abstain from egrets.
The ostrich, however, has no cause to feel
hilarious. Ilis tail will continue to be
pulled for female adornment, and a fine
sample, in a long mauve feather, twirled
round King-llall’s millinery the other
day. The black Spanish rooster is outside
the prohibition act, and will go on giving
his wearing apparel to hats for both sexes.
There was a Tudor flavor in the summons
that commanded a peer’s personal attend-
ance at the Coronation corroboree
George R. Right-trusty and Well-beloved. We
greet you well. Whereas the 22nd day of June next
is appointed for the solemnity of Our Royal Corona-
tion, These are to Will and Command you and the
Lady your Wife, all excuses set apart, to make your
personal attendance on us at the time above-men-
tioned, furnished and appointed as to your Rank and
Quality appertaineth. . . . Whereof you and she are
not to fail. And so we bid you most heartily, fare-
well.
This antique trimming to modern ceremony
is signed by “Norfolk, Earl Marshal.” It
gives the poorest peer no hope of working off
the venerable “previous engagement.” “All
excuses set apart” flicks aside “No credit,”
“Coronet in pawn,” “Silk stockings at the
wash, and other disagreeable complaints to
which impecunious noblemen are liable.
Mrs. Tom Hughes and the wife of George
I uller, M.H.R., have been getting their ap-
pearance talked about at dress parades in
London. Mrs. George is a native of Illa-
warra, where they grow fine girls, tall, slen-
der and graceful as cabbage-tree palms. She
has moved a London scribe to pursue her
with adjectives and Alfred Tennyson. “One
of the beautiful Australian women now in
London is Mrs. George Fuller, whose height
and figure recall ‘A daughter of the gods,
divinely tall,”’ etc. It’s unlucky we ex-
ported so much good looks before the globe-
trotting lady began throwing ink and other
things at our girls.
“Rosna,” gadding in London, tells me more
about the Australian outbreak:—
The most interesting party thrust at the Coronating
visitors to date was our own artists’ reception, given at
the Imperial Institute. Every available dauber had a
hand in it. Bertram Mackennal received the guests \
Arthur Streeton and C. E. Ritchie designed the
decorations (the hall was clothed in pastel-shaded
muslin, with an electrically lit Southern Cross blink-
ing from the ceiling) ; Tom Roberts suggested the
party and divided secretarial labors with George
Coates; Derwent Wood, Henry Fullwood, Fred Leist
and George Bell painted special scenery; George
Lambert organised a series of Episodes, symbolic of
Australia’s awakening. Musically the entertainment
was divided among the States. Godfrey Ludlow
brought a fiddle from Sydney; Peter Dawson a voice
from Adelaide; William Murdoch a piano from Mel-
bourne ; and Florence Schmidt, a warble from Bris-
bane.
There were familiar faces all over the place. The
Tennysons were there, as kind of sub-hosts, to wel-
come the Commonwealth Parliamentary folk, who
were portioned out among the guests. Mrs. J. C.
Williamson, just back in London, and sporting a
dream of a Paris gown, had a gay party with her,
including Julius Knight; long and jovial Senator
Long, from the Apple Isle; Dolly Castles, who is
keeping a wistful eye on Australia; and Margaret
Stone, who has been browsing among frocks that will
presently make Melbourne envious, and “chumming”
with dukes and earls as the guest of “Tryphena,”
Lady Doughty. _ “Tryphena,” by the way, has had
much to do with the doctors lately. It’s nervous
exhaustion, the imp that besets strenuous natures.
The George Reids’ party also filled the Imperial
Institute to the brim. It was a string-band-and-sup-
per-in-the-garden revel, with various Somebodies and
sprigs of royalty to “tone” the proceedings. The
hostess, looking 18 or less, wore foamy cream chiffon,
with the faintest hint of pink about it. Princess
Louise, in a lace gown, with wondrously-wrought
flowers bespread on it, was captured to shake the
hand of the assembled Australian Parliament and its
wife.
Maorilander Mrs. S. A. Rhodes, a lady of
the ancient Order of St. John of Jerusalem,
recently found herself alone with Queen
Mary—“by command” —and she didn’t wait
to brush off the Palace dust before recording
her impressions. “Her Majesty” is, how-
ever, so heavily powdered over the letter
that it almost buries Mary, the woman.
However, she emerges, uncrowned, in the
last line: “I found her practical, wise and
good.” As though any Queen was ever any-
thing else —until she was buried !
Another new Women’s Club has been hang-
ing between Darling Point and Hades (or
some other unknown address) for eight or
nine months. It now walks the earth on the
share system, and will be residential and
fairly expensive. The Women’s Club epi-
demic in this city is spreading rapidly. Per-
haps the Health authorities will kindly note
this when they’re handing round antidotes
against infectious complaints.
The French National F@te, at Clifton Gar-
dens last week, gathered about 300 visitors.
L’entente cordiale was toasted with enthusi-
asm. Consul-General Armand took care of
the French half. Acting-Premier Holman
pulled the Australian end into the right
place.
The French Benevolent Society is the
financial objective of the hard cash left over
from the French annual f@te. It is odd to
hear from a Frenchman who knows, that the
Parisian chef in Sydney who can’t speak
English when he is looking for work, often
has to dip into the philanthropic coffers of
the society. “From Noumea, too —sometimes
French families who meant to colonise there,
get stranded. Also—yes—there are others
from Noumea. We help them —try to read
between the lines how much is true of their
story, and don’t inquire too closely into their
antecedents,” says a Frenchman who has to
control the Benevolent Society’s money-box.
An old lady who died the other day gave the
society a severe shock by leaving it £2O.
“We helped her once; then better days
came. She remembered the society. It has
never happened to us before,” says Mr.
Doucet.
Captain Head, of the sth Royal Welsh
Fusiliers, an expert ski-er who picked up
his skill in Norway; Barrister Pitt, who
organised a party (Mrs. Bowman, Miss K.
Bowman and Miss Mullins were included
in this Arctic ascent) ; Photographer Kerry,
who knows Monaro backwards; and Dr.
Schlink, of Prince Alfred Hospital, are
“doing” Kosciusko’s snowscape at this mo-
ment. The Alpine Club’s hon. sec., Percy
Pearson, son of one-time cycling man Pear-
son, is also up amongst the snow shoes.
Miss Gwyneth Jones,_ who was second to
Miss Holt in the ladies’ ski championship,
hails from Burwood’s trim lawns. Sun-
kissed Albury has also contributed pilgrims
to Kosciusko’s bald old head. Mrs. Ken-
nedy, wife of a local doctor, and her three
daughters tore themselves away from red
bricks and grape-vines for a holiday tobog-
gan on Australia’s snow hat. Mr. and Mrs.
F. E. Brown hurried from Perth to the ski-
fields, and Dr. C. P. Stewart deserted the
influenza germ in this city for 17 deg. of
frost. Dr. Verge has —temporarily, any-
how—abandoned his first-love, football, for
skis, and _ snatched second place in the re-
cent carnival race for novices, with Mr. S.
Hordern first.
. Sydney-on-the-hop has been speckled with
girls dances. The _ Ashfield matrons have
also taken a hand in July festivities; and
they are now getting crumbs on their car-
pets, mingled with congratulations, over
their rose-trimmed party.
Col. Wells and officers of the Militia Field
Artillery gave a dance in their Brigade head-
quarters last week. This sounds quite easy,
but, when the ordinary tame old cab-horse
arrived at this scene of warlike festivity, on
a dark, wet night, he required three persons
in uniform to hold his head, and several
others to threaten him with firm language.
Militiamen have their own lair, beyond the
asphalt square in Victoria Barracks, where
the underdone recruit shakes his soles in
goose-step. This lair is securely protected
at night by an uncertain track with lumps
in its middle, and a bugle-call at one end.
Two motors, catching cold in their tyres
under dripping trees, cost nothing extra—to
the spectator who splashed past. Major
and Mrs. Lenehan; the French Consul’s
wife, Mrs. Armand, in a pale pink robe,
with a trellis mat of pearls on her flaxen
curls; two tall Miss Eldertons, skaters who
cut considerable ice at the Glaciarium; Gen-
eral Gordon in uniform; Mrs. Wells, in
black; the ballroom in flags; and various
brands of military apparel, including some
stray Scottish Rifles not yet exterminated
by Senator McGregor—these, or most of
them, whizzed round the polished floor to the
music of a hard-worked piano.
The Boys' Brigade ball committee is
wrestling with final details and wondering
how it can sell ball tickets for a mere ss. 6d.
each, fodder being up. The Town Hall will
be the place, and August 1 the date.
Students at the Royal Art Society’s
studios lately snared some scholarship prizes.
Mr. C. E. Long acquired his for drawing
from life, with Miss N. Tindall second. Mr.
C. YVatson was first in the antique class,
with Miss E. Tregear second. Miss F.
McNab, Miss Bennett and Miss E. Chap-
man (who is “coming” in black-and-white)
are also named. The cold, commercial value
of the prizes is not mentioned. Only one
student, by the way, Miss Tindall, seems to
have attacked the poster with success. Ad-
vertising is just beginning to find artistic ex-
pression in this continent. In U.S. well-
known brush and pencil men are responsible
for the pictorial advts. in the expensive
mags. ; and, on the hoardings, the poster is
climbing up everything except fire escapes.
Here the field is comparatively fallow. But
the girl who has ideas, and can get a bold
effect in three colors —isn’t this Ilassall’s
advice to his London poster school? —is go-
ing to. make bread and comfort at poster
work, instead of bread and scrape at flower
painting.
Mrs. Burdekin and her two daughters left
£or Queensland last week. They will spend
a quiet month on the station that Mr. Alec
Hay bought the other day in the Banana
State.
Irving’s Hamlet is inciting otherwise
peaceful Sydney citizens to rush into print
and argument. . While the old-to-medium
playgoer is scraping his memory for mum-
mer s anecdotes, G. A. S. can be quoted for
his tale of King Lear. Bateman, a theatrical
manager in the States, was touring in a
barge down the Mississippi. Times were bad
and audiences scanty. One evening Bateman
was playing King Lear to a sadly exiguous
audience. In the middle of the storm scene,
the actor who played Edgar rushed on to the
stage and exclaimed, “By Jove, Colonel, Cor-
delia has got a bite!” Cordelia had been
Ashing when off,” at the stern of the barge.
Bateman, who was generally addressed as
Colonel, was afterwards the lessee of the
Lyceum when the elder Irving made his first
successes.
“Akenehi” drops in from Hongkong:—
I mentioned to someone that the making of Hong-
kong ought to have been specially mentioned in Gene-
sis in the account of the Creation. On the seventh
day He rested, but, towards evening, He made Hong-
kong. Mi? The someone replied that it would have
been a very ordinary job—just a peak that scraped
the sky, with a little flat land around its feet. But,
built upon as it is to its apex, and lighted, at night
it looks a most beautiful work of God and man
Especially man,” added the someone.
~ I . t ,y as ,,, th , e „ run in the tramway up to the Peak
that rattled me, so that I forgot to post to you
earlier. The grade of the acclivity is sometimes one
m two. Occasionally I stole a furtive, terrified
glance at the city falling away below me, and looking
hkea raised map, but mostly I sat bunched up, staring
at the toes of my shoes, and making my peace with
Heaven: Please, Heaven, if you’ll get me safely out
21 i , ls horrible precipice, I’ll be a missionary in
Woolloomooloo and the Bocks for the rest of my life.
111 build a church on stone rockers, and be awfullv
good for” J
. “Three times a year,” a masculine voice was say-
ing in my ear, “they fill this car with sand-bags,
three times the weight of any human freight it can
ca «y- Then they let it go, and pull it up at will.”
1 hey don t run it in typhoon weather,” says an-
other because of the rocks falling. Of course
everybody lives up here, but in typhoon weather they
have to make use of rickshaws.”
I stole another look at the city, now some 1600 ft.
downstairs. Mists were playing now-you-see-it-and-
now-you-don’t all over its wharves and shipping, its
granite sea-walls, huge buildings and tropical foliage.
/Aen the car stopped on the iron face of its ascent
hanging on by its two front teeth, and took in more
passengers; and I did more toe-study, and made mor"
false promises to Heaven. Another hundred yards
came the terminus. On the roads that wound to the
various mansions built the rest of the way to the
I eak, I saw women wearing the most beautiful tailor-
mades, of cream, tan, or white corded silk, with
shoes and hose to match. I think I know a good
tailor-made, and those I saw 1800 ft. above sea-level
in Hongkong must have come from Paris or Vienna.
Sydney is too far off to supply them. Besides, the few
persons. who can make ’em there are too rushed for
even home consumption. The faultlessly-frocked wo-
men I saw probably belonged to the military set.
Soldiers, soldiers everywhere, as Foster Fraser said
in his lectures on Russia. Hongkong is armed to its
back teeth, and fortified from its sea-slime to the
sky-scraping Peak. Long before your vessel, creeping
by night to an anchorage, drops its mud-hook, the
chain of lights from the armed coast-line on either
hand makes the scene an enchanting one.
According to Cold Land advices, Mr.
Bogue Luffman, whose “Quiet Days in
fepain came out some time ago, has retired
to Torquay to write “Our Castle in Spain,”
now almost ready for publication. Horti-
cultural Luffman is said to be polishing his
learned spectacles for another flight to the
land of Dons and bombs —an explosive
source of literary inspiration at the present
moment.
*v.^ e T? oliticf V °?, the hearth. Do you notice
that Bogue Luffman writes of “ Quiet Days
m Spain”? And the widower of a much-
esteemed N.S.W. political organising lady is
said to have called his present domicile “The
Rest.
Kitchener, in his new job in Egypt—he
succeeds Sir Eldon Gorst as “British Agent”
—is going to bump against the Woman ques-
tion there. . Moslem women have lately been
sitting up in congress in the land of flies
pyramids and beggars. A Mrs. Badiah, whose
father is Bey Nasif, has even dared to snap
her fingers at the harem and other venerable
institutions. There is going to be a series
ot domestic earthquakes in Moslem homes
and Kitchener, for once, will have to side
with the ladies, because they’re kicking un
their heels in favor of Western ways.
When Melba comes to Sydney she
will occupy Fernleigh, at Rose Bay,
for 10 weeks from_ August 15. Fernleigh
was built about 35 years ago by (J. W
Roberts, father of C. J. Roberts, who was
raised to the tremendous dignity of C M G
tor serving his country as one of Parkes’s
numerous Postmasters-General. The home
afterwards became the property of Frank
Bennett, of the Evening News, whose
widow now in England, has let it to
Melba s manager, John Lemmone.
Hugh Ward moves into his new Potts
Point nest in September. It has a blue
wash ot harbor round its front garden, and
its windows stare across Sydney’s Waterway
towards the sharp bluff of North Head
Ihe house-warming will consist chiefly of
music, with Mrs. Grace Miller Ward’s ar-
tistic lilt as warble-in-chief.
Darling Point has acquired Florence
Young, who has bought a water-lapped villa
on its brink.
The veil of the hour, as worn by the fash-
ionable Sydney dame, is more worm-like in
its wriggly pattern than ever. It isn’t quite
so heavy in texture, but is more ferocious
to look at in consequence. The female face
can now be seen through an open-work de-
sign, in which spiders, lizards, and other
wild beasts are exhibiting their fossil re-
mains, embedded in black veiling fabric.
Mummer Rupert Darrell, who is the king
in “Jack and the Beanstalk” Panto., has
found the girl ne has been looking for. She
is Miss Eva Collins Shanahan, of Brisbane,
and Rupert hopes to see her crowned with
orange blossoms before his Beanstalk king-
dom is dissolved.
An Australian abroad, who recently met
Lily Delany in Berlin, sends a line to say
that the late organist Delany’s daughter has
given up the piano for the footlights. She’s
going to be a soubrette.
A new form of marriage ceremony unites
m matrimony all true believers in the Suffra-
gette cause. “Votes for Women” gives an
exhilarating account of a recent wedding in
Brighton (Eng.). The wording of the cere-
mony was tamed down into an interchange
of polite remarks which recognised comrade-
ship only—no back answers about “obey”
being expected by the bridegroom. Rings
were exchanged.
“Herzen und Blumen,” which is foreign
for “Hearts and Flowers,” is a melodious
waltz with a swinging rhythm. Tellier-
Gzibulka is the composer. Paling’s publish
it.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORLAN.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Vice-Regal
gfj
Jewellers,
DESIGN
QUALITY
VALUE.
CIGARETTE CASES FOR LADIES.
SOLID
SILVER,
£l/16
fgj
GOLD,
IN CAS
£l6
A Large Variety to Select from,
inspection Invited.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office Address: 19 Charterhouse Street, Holborn Circus, EC.
SELLING IN THOUSANDS .
ONE DAY
A SEQUEL TO “ THREE WEEKS '
(The Celebrated Book by Elinor C <’' -*)♦
Price 1/3
Post
Free, 1/5-
fgfgj
FOREWORD
TO MY
AUSTRALIAN
FRIENDS.
NOW after spending some very pleasant weeks in your
interesting country, I feel sure that this book will
find many sympathetic readers in Australia. Quite
naturally it will be discussed; some, doubtless will cen-
sure it —and unjustly ; others will believe with me that
the tale teaches a great moral lesson.
Born as the Boy was born, the end which Fate forced
upon him, to me, was inevitable. Each word and act
of the three weeks of his parents’ love-idyll m>'st reflect in
the character and life of the child. Little by little the
baby King grew before my mental vision until I saw at
last there was no escape from his importunity, and I
allowed the insistent Boy—masterful even from his incep-
tion —to shape himself at his own sweet will. Thus he
became the hero of my study.
This is not a hook for children or fools —but for men
and women who can grasp the underlying principle of
morality which has been uppermost in my mind as I wrote.
Those who can see beyond the outburst of passion—the
overmastering belief in the power of love to justify all
things, which the Boy inherited so naturally from his
Queen mother —will understand the forces against which
the young Prince must needs fight a losing battle. The
transgression was unavoidable to one whose very concep-
tion was beyond the law—the punishment was equally
inevitable.
In fairness to this hook of mine—and to me —the great
moral lesson I have endeavoured to teach must be con-
sidered in its entirety, and no single episode be construed
as the book’s sole aim. The verdict on my two years’
work rests with you, dear Reader, but at least you may
be sure that I have only tried to show that those who sow
the wind shall reap the whirlwind.
The Author.
Obtainable at all Booksellers
in Australasia.
THE
“STEINWAY” PIANOLA PIANO
AN AGREEMENT has been reached between The Pianola Company
(manufacturers of the PIANOLA) and Steinway & Sons, giving the
Pianola Company the exclusive right to instal the PIANOLA-player
in the Stein way Piano.
The official announcement coming from Steinway Hall, New York,
starts out as follows :
“ Realising the trend of the times, Messrs. Steinway
& Sons have been carefully studying the inside player
subject. After an exhaustive investigation of all the
players in the market, they have selected the PlANOLA-
player as the very highest type of automatic player action.”
This settles for all time the artistic and mechanical supremacy of the
PIANOLA as contrasted with any and all other Piano-players.
STEINWAY & SONS, from their exalted position in the artistic world,
could not be satisfied with anything but the best, dheir conclusion
was that the PIANOLA, and the PIANOLA alone, should be used
in combination with their pianos. The decision was based not only on the
higher order of musical and artistic effects for which the PIANOLA is
celebrated, but also on its constructional superiority and the better grade of
workmanship and material that it represents.
The arrangement gives The Pianola Company absolute control of the
sale of the STEIN WAY PIANOLA PIANO throughout the whole world.
These instruments are now on exhibition at our showrooms, and a
cordial invitation is extended to all, irrespective of any intention to purchase.
If unable to call, write and ask us to send a catalogue of the Steinway
Pianola Piano. We mail it free for the asking. Ask for Catalogue L.S.
Full Value Allowed for Slightly Used or Second-hand Pianos as part payment on a STEINWAY or STECK PIANOLA
THE PIANOLA COMPANY, 357 George Street,
PIANO.
Sydney.
(Next David Jones Ltd.)
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.


-sr
m
P.D
“How to
Reduce
Stout
Figures!
Well devel oped
Women are, by
nature, Inclined to
“embonpoint.” To
effectually counter-
act this character-
istic and enable you
to retain the desired youthful slimness
of figure, the makers of the famous French
Model No. SOll}.
Royal
99
“P.D.
Rustless Corsets
have specially designed a beautiful model.
No. 3012 is the particular shape which will
reduce the figure gently and comfortably
by fully two or three inches. It has a low
bust, with a perfectly straight front, and
delicately produces the slender hip effect.
Fitted with s'.x strong suspenders, and
made of finest quality grey or white coutil.
All stout women should ask to see this
lovely model, which will immediately
impart an exquisitely graceful contour.
“None Genuine without
Trade Mark! ”
TRADE
V.T
M/
MARK.
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
523 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling’s.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 17, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —-
Things become rather complicated when
a change of vice-regals is impending,
federal Government House is at present
in the hands of her Excellency the Char-
lady, who, with broom and bucket, is get-
ting ready for the coming Denman. G.-G.
Dudley, arriving from Sydney the other
day, had nowhere to lay his head ; so Sub-
Excellency Fuller put him up at the
crowded Malvern establishment.
The Sheffield Choir lifted up its numerous
voice on Saturday night in the Exhibition,
and the organ woke up and rolled forth its
deepest chest notes. Sassiety made a higii-
class first night of it, and packed the roped-
off . enclosure of floor-space. (In the Exhi-
bition the Elevated are seated humbly on
the floor, wnile the Lowly are exalted
almost to the roof in the high galleries.)
In the flat sea of humanity, the John Mad-
den head shone with the light of know-
ledge, and the Sugden spectacles gleamed ;
also the cerise silk head-band of a Sassiety
brunette indicated like a lifebuoy where she
was seated, while the diamond tiara of a
well-known dame flashed like a social light-
house. The fair locks of the Mayoress,
somewhere in the vicinity of the front row,
indicated where her party had its camp.
The audience was a mixture of the in-
tensely musical and the stay-at-home reli-
gious section. A real “Messiah” crowd, in
fact.
The army of Choristers invaded Mel-
bourne from seaward on Saturday and ad-
vanced on the Grand Hotel, which at once
sent out the hall-porter with a flag of truce.
Two and a half hundred souls require a
deal of space and attention, and the Grand
staff had to work as if the Cup, three Agri-
cultural Shows and a dozen or so church
conventions had all happened together. The
North Country accent was heard every-
where, and in the adjacent streets the
traffic was held up by mountains of lug-
gage on wheels. All for a brief 10 days’
stay! Some of the women insisted tnat
they “wouldn’t unpack a thing except their
suit cases.” In the afternoon a procession
of drags bore a lot of them off to the civic
reception at the Town Hall, to be bored
with speeches. Lady Norah Noel, the show
lady of the Choir, did not appear on the
first night. She makes a star entrance
later on.
Ethel Irving, at the Royal, is showing
Melbourne the finest gowns this dazzled
city has seen for many a night. In the
first act, she uses her rifle in a silky cling-
ing white dress. Her lover is made to rave
over a shimmering blue dress which is
swathed round her figure, and has a lilac
band. Then there is a champagne-color
vision. When she ceases to be wicked,
and is ready to divulge her awful secret,
she appears in a dress of sparrow-brown
calculated to melt the heart and head of
any male creature. Her artistic posing
helps to show off the “creations” to the
very best advantage. Her hats, too, are
poems. The one which compels the old
professor’s admiration is grey-blue in color,
and has black velvet bunched up in the
cutest way.
A recital of songs by May Brahe, in the
Athenaeum last week, was a charmingly
artistic show. Several chosen singers
carolled 20 out of the 52 tone-poems the
young composer has to her credit. Maggie
Stirling attended to the contralto settings,
and Rebottaro to the baritone and bass
numbers; while a tenor and soprano helped
to coyer the scale. Mrs. Brahe, a slight,
graceful figure in a soft blue gown, played
all the accompaniments with exquisite
taste. She has a couple of babies, a hus-
band and a household to look after; but she
still contrives to write music, and confesses
that one of ner inspirations came to her
while she was washing-up during a Mary-
annless spell. (It must be an awful
struggle to decide whether to dash to the
piano and let the hot water freeze, or
finish the drudgery and risk the loss of the
fleeting idea.) The tuneful function drew
a full house through the rain. The other
side of the river was particularly well re-
presented. Mrs. Mcßurney, who taught
Mrs. Brahe—she was one of the “cordial”
Dixons in those days—beamed proudly in
the front row. Tom Hogan headed a large
party, which included Miss Rebottaro ; and
Rita Hope and other musical people list-
ened appreciatively. The songs are delicate
morsels suitable for drawing-rooms.
Just now Art in Melbourne is shaking
hands in a brotherly way with Adver-
tising. The energetic Gaud Mayor, with
Excellencies as patrons, called a meeting to
arrange an exhibition of the relatives, to
be held in the Town Hall in September.
Well-known advertisers have promised their
assistance for the show, at which there will
be competitions, poster tableaux and music.
Several artists hare announced that they
will give original sketches, among them
Blamire Young, Charlie Nuttall. Percy
Benison and Oscar Binder. Something,
too, will probably come along from Sass.
Blamire Young is particularly interested,
for he recently wrote a satirical little play-
let called “Art for Art’s Sake,” deriding
the grand old parrot cry. “Art’s Sake” is
hardly distinguished from “Artist’s Sake,”
anyhow, seeing that all notions of the im-
palpable It are strictly individual. When,
say, John Ford Paterson devotes his chest
note of interrogation to “What is Airt?” he
always proceeds to furnish his own ex-
planation.
Artist McCubbin is at woi’k on a por-
trait of lxis wife, which will be shown at
the next Victorian Artists’ Exhibition. The
picture pi-omises to be one of the best
things he has done.
On Satui’day, Rear-Admiral Creswell’s
lady lectured at the Arts and Crafts Salon
in an intimate lieart-to-heart manner. She
has been a devoted worker for the guild
ever since its inception, and is now follow-
ing bi’iskly in the footsteps of the capable
Lady Carmichael. The “open” exhibitions
have become large and important affairs. On
a l’ecent Tuesday Mai’garet Baskerville mod-
elled a boy’s head in clay. First the frame
—uninteresting gas-piping and
put up. Then a small boy was induced to
sit still while Margaret, in a studio blouse,
reproduced his head in the plastic material.
The MacMahon lady put on view h°r fine
collection of old china; the >i exhibitor, in
grey ti-appings, hovered watchfully round
the table, for the. careless hand is liable to
fiddle with a priceless scrap of plate as
though it were a tuppenny mug at a sub-
urban sale. Miss Cooper laid out her porce-
lain miniatures for inspection. One of
them, a porti-ait of our own Ilopetoun,
mightily interested the visiting Linlith-
gow, and I wouldn’t be surprised if he
bore it off with him to Scotland.
From a chatterer in London :
After nearly five years’ study in Vienna, fiddler
Leila Doubleday made her London debut on June 9,
at the Queen’s Hall, with the new Symphony Or-
chestra. The wise people who guide the youngster’s
destiny fixed her appearance for a time when half (or
less) of Australia was in London, and saw to it
that her “patronage” list began with Princesses
Louise and Christian and the Teeks, and ended with the
Reids and Taverners, swallowing most of the peerage
en route. The aristocracy obligingly brought out its
tiara, and filled the circle so that there wasn’t a
single vacant allotment. Neither was there breath-
ing space in the huge gallery, and very little of it in
the stalls. Artistically, the youngster justified herself
every time, and the Vienna critics who called her a
finished artist were not contradicted. . Her early
promise of temperament has been abundantly ful-
filled, and already, at 17, she plays with a fulness
and purity of tone, as well as extraordinary percep-
tion, that put her miles beyond the ordinary student
performer. Personally Leila is the same simple,
unspoiled youngster who left Australia five
years ago, the only difference being the dignity
of a few added inches and ankle-long frocks. A
concert in Vienna is the next event for the girl.
Meantime, the Northcote dame and various other
moneyed folk are giving her engagements. Leila’s
young b. other, Kingsley, by the way, has developed a
considerable artistic talent, which has won him ad-
mission into Vienna’s most notable Art School for
three years, free of fees.
Clarence Newell, well remembered here
as the pianist who accompanied Dolores on
one of her early Australian tours, writes
from California to a Melbourne friend about
things theatrical. He saw Bernhardt in
“Phedre” at the Greek Theatre, an impos-
ing edifice open to the sky and situated
amidst Australian gums and acacias on the
campus of the University of California:
“She played to about 9000 people. It was
a perfect day, and the scene was wonderful.
Her voice was like velvet. She is the eighth
wonder of the world.” Newell also writes
of some brand-new operas. The best of the
bunch is “Koenig’s Kinder,” by Humper-
dinck. This was produced for the first time
on any stage in New York this winter. Four
European novelties have first seen the foot-
lights in the city of skyscrapers during the
season. The other three were “Ariane et
Barbe Bleu,” “The Girl of the Golden West”
(Puccini), and “Natonia,” by Herbert Red-
ding, a lawyer and one of the most promin-
ent members of the Bohemian Club of San
Francisco. He is librettist and composer
both, and manufactured the music for one of
the Club’s unique forest plays.
When Amy Castles next appears on stage
or platform, somebody will have to be at
hand to restrain her pet goose from
waddling affectionately after her. The
singer, who has been resting at home with
mother, has adopted a fine, sleek web-footer
which wears a turquoise collar and flops
confidently on to Amy’s knee to be petted.
Ex-Premier Allan McLean, who died last
week, had been sick for a long time; but
he managed to get into town to attend a
Board of Works meeting only a few days
before the end. In the House Premier
Watt spoke feelingly of his old chief’s pass-
ing. McLean it was who gave Watt his
first portfolio—that of Postmaster-General,
in the Government of 1899.
The two principal persons in a forth-
coming wedding of considerable tonnage
will be Captain H. Roland Llewellyn, of
Singapore, and Miss Nita Maidment,
seventh or eighth daughter of the Maid-
ments of Butleigh-Wootton, Kew.
One of Bendigo’s nice girls, Miss Netty
Allan, daughter of bank manager Allan,
was quietly married on Saturday to Ralph
St. Clair Thompson. The ceremony was in
St. Pat’s Cathedral, on Eastern Hill, and
the subsequent reception at the Grand
Hotel down the street. An aunt (Mrs.
Lee) piloted the bride through the orange-
blossoming, which was . overshadowed by
the death of ex-Premier Allan McLean,
who was related to the clan. The bride
walked the red carpet in a simple short
frock of crOpe de Chine embroidered with
pearls. Mrs. Lee’s dainty little daughter,
all in pink, was bridesmaid.
Cabled that Prime Minister Fisher’s
sister has married a police constable, An-
drew being present. It runs in the family.
The brother accepted one P.C.; now his
sister has accepted another.
Mrs. Hill, who is one of the pretty Fitz-
gerald girls with a brand-new name, has
just returned from a honeymoon in Colom-
bo, and has gone on to hubby’s station.
Mrs. O’Keefe, the other sister, who married
about the same time, has been carried off
by her bridegroom to England. The two
pair • left here on the same boat and reviled
old Neptune together; for whereas one bride
had to leave her bridegroom when she went
on deck for some ozone, the other husband
was bereft of his fair mate’s society above-
board for the whole of tne trip. Sister
and brother-in-law condoled with each other
on the contrary ways of fate. After all, the
first requirement for joyful matrimony
afloat is a companionable liver. Sickness
and health should both run in couples.
Dr. Lavertine, who keeps his brass-plate
screwed to the conning tower of a man-o’-
war, has climbed to the topmost rung of his
particular ladder, being now Royal Fleet
Surgeon. Some years ago he carried off
Ethel i Gunn, a iflelbourne beauty, to the
usual organ and orange blossom accom-
paniment.
Dion Titheradge, now in London, has
ceased play-acting to devote himself to play-
writing. He has already turned out some-
thing for Marie Lohr, and several of his
playlets have raised their young heads in
sketch theatres.
Miss Olive Wilton, of King’s, who in pri-
vate life is the wife of William Cornell, of
the Clarke-Meynell management staff, is
proudly handing round a new infant. All
the members of the co. signed a wire of
welcome to the new ingenue.
Matron Cross, of the Queenstown (Tas.)
Hospital, has promised her cool, capable
hand to Dr. Love, who practises at Gor-
manston, some four or five miles away. She
is a sister of “Dicky” Cross, a prominent
huntsman and golfer of this State. Dr.
Love hails from Adelaide.
“Vic.” drops a line: —
You wondered last week whether that Ferguson,
to whose memory a fountain has been raised to block
the intersection of Bourke and Russell streets, was
still doing service for the Cold Water cause in Mel-
bourne. No, no; he has left the earth these seven
years. And the blockading fountain will as infal-
libly disappear.
A par from “M.A.P.” of more or less in-
terest to Australians:—
May I . congratulate Lady Lansdowne upon the
dignity with which the other day she secured a
quiet hearing for her distinguished husband in the
House of Lords. While the noble Marquis was
speaking,. Lord Denman, in the gallery, took the
opportunity of explaining the architectural and
otner beauties of an unreformed Second Chamber
to Mr. Fisher, the Prime Minister of Australia, and
his colleague, Mr. Pearce. Lady Lansdowne rose
majestically, paced like a princess to the offenders,
uttered a few words of haughty reproof, and the
murmur ceased. A Prime Minister looked uneasy,
and a Governor-General—only a small one —blushed.
The arrival of Miss Alice Hughes has in-
terested the dancing section. The lady is
Organiser of Games to the London County
Council, and, as such, spends some of her
time trying to induce the village by the
Thames to indulge in Morris dances and
other good old English gambols instead
of cakewalks. This city has paused in
the midst ot its winter waltzing to listen
to her; so the graceful old frolics may
soon have a place on every dance pro-
gramme.
There is to be no St. Vincent’s Hospital
Ball this year—and it is usually one of the
season’s best. The healing house on East-
ern Hill does not wish to incur the neces-
sary expense for the big function, and in-
timates that the patrons may throw their
money straight into the coffers without
troubling to climb into evening clothes. I
hope the disappointed ones will fall in with
the labor-saving idea.
The Catholic Ladies’ College dance,
Whereof the Weed on lady is president, will
keep Melbourne Town Hall a blaze of light
on Tuesday, August 8, from 8.30 to I—the1 —the
chill hour w r hen shivering cabmen talk
lightly of ’arf-suvrins, and every mile seems
at least five and a half.
The younger of the rich Cooper sisters
departs for another foreign wander by the
German mailboat this week. The pair ex-
perimented for a while with the stage and
a manicure-and-beauty parlor; but there is
no inducement to keep on working for a
living when you already have it; so both
expex-iments were abandoned after brief
trials.
The old Xaverians, whose college stands
by the river at Kew, gave a concert on
Presentation Night in the College Hall in
aid of the newly-formed Rowing Club. The
students hope soon to see a new shed, filled
with slender sculling craft, rise by the
lapping stream. The concert has brought
the dream a little nearer realisation.
Handsome Harrie Ireland is, or was,
lately, back in her native Melbourne again,
after a comparatively restful season of
picture-drama acting in Sydney and there-
abouts. Hai’rie, of the auburn hair, tells
amusing stpries of her experiences in the
Gaston Mervale Co. what time she was
playing to the camera. All picture-drama
is essentially humorous to the mummers,
but the breezy open-air proceedings some-
times reach the top-note of drollery, owing
to the conditions under which the scene is
“set,” and the manner in which private
residences are invaded and the private resi-
dents hustled out of the camera’s'focus.
Beautiful Parisians are adopting a savage
plan to attract attention to their own good
looks. They search round for the most
awful-looking servants to have about them,
and have, as their constant companions,
hideous pets of all sorts. A favoi’ite dancer
is waited on by a Hindu whose face would
make a decent elephant take the other side
of the street; and another beauty-maniac has
secured a real prize in a dwarf with a tre-
mendous head, a malevolent expression, and
hardly any legs. Some day one of the
servants of the Parisian houris will commit
a crime to match his face or form, and the
craze will be switched off with a gasp of
horror.
My Adelaide correspondent writes: —
The Adelaide Rowing Club ball occurred at the
North Adelaide Institute last week. Crossed oars,
the club colors (gold, scarlet and black), and trails
of asparagus, did their humble best to hide the drab
walls, while a crowd of some 300 strong, mostly
feminine, graced the floor —and incidentally hid some
more wall. The Institute boasts a fairly good floor,
and that is the best that can be said for it. The
Rowing men had to erect a marquee as a supper-
room. A frivolously-inclined millionaire would do
Adelaide, and possibly himself, a good turn, if he
built for hire some handy hall which was really
suitable for dancing.
The Appendreena Dramatic Club played Davis’s
“Cousin Kate” at the Walkerville Hall on Saturday
night. A friendly audience agreed that a company
of pros, couldn’t have done the piece more credit '
The “old scholars” of Saint Peter’s and Prince
Alfred’s dined at the Grand Central on Saturday and
Friday nights respectively. These associations do
useful work in the way of establishing scholarships
for the younger generation. Furthermore, some years
since, a dozen one-time St. Peter’s boys banded them-
selves into the Blue and White Club, and
gave as good a bachelor ball as this city had seen
The affair became a semi-institution, and at erratic
intervals dancing maidens are made glad by a similar
festivity. Marriage, or a definite promise thereof
cancels membership; so the personnel of the com-
mittee varies. But the dance is always good. This
year’s success was at the North Adelaide Institute
Now the Queen’s School Old Boys are scratching their
several heads, and scheming how they may, at a
Chocolate and Gold revel, completely eclipse the
Blue-and-Whites.
The will of pastoralist T. R. Bowman, who died
early in the year, has been lodged for probate. Be-
sides paying a nice sum into the Treasury, it creates
two prospective heiresses. The estate, which is some-
where in the region of £150,000, goes, at the death
of testator’s two daughters, to two small grand-
daughters. Failing them, various charities get the
whole. Probate would have been larger, only that
two years ago saw a gift to charity of £25,000, The
Bowmans are a large squatting clan, and most of the
homesteads scattered about the “Lakes” acknowledge
their ownership or kinship.
Gradually we have awakened to the fact that our
hills can provide scenery, and the Tourist Bureau is
helping citizens in their search for beauty, by running
cheap excursions on Saturdays and holidays. The
vehicle in use is described as a “motor char-a-banc,”
and looks wildly top-heavy, but so far no smashes are
reported, though our hill roads need some negotiation.
One of the most popular trips of the moment is to
a violet farm near Norton’s Summit. There are
five acres of unbroken, glorious blue, while the deli-
cate perfume seems to spread endlessly. Most folk
who journey there are tilled with an immediate wild
desire to lead a simple life, and be violet farmers.
Picking them for market in the frosty dusk is another
story. But at. least it’s more romantic than milking.
On Tuesday the Governor spoke his mind on ships
and navies to the Royal Geographical Society. Our
Admiral is amazed, amongst other things, at our in-
consequently-christened “ports.” The name is given
with equal alacrity to the Port River and to small
towns standing back from a stretch of coast, as
straight and unbroken as if cut off with a foot-rule.
The Home for Incurables has adopted for some
years the somewhat over-taxed idea of adding to its
exchequer by an annual ball. This jrnar the presence
of vice-regality, and the convenience of special sub-
urban cars, gave the affair a needed help.
The 1200 “old boys” of Prince Alfred College
have had an odd sort of argument over their annual
dinner. Every secretary knows the awkwardness of
an affair where some diners are buying wine and
some are not; on the other hand, to make the ticket
price include liquor seems unfair to the increasing
numbers who “don’t take anything.” So it was de-
cided to have a vote this year whether or not alcohol
should be cut out altogether. Straightway an unfair
inference was drawn, and “Mother of Six” and “One
Who Has Never Been There” rushed into the papers
with tales of the dreadful orgies seen at the dinners
in the past. The other side promptly replied “Wow-
ser!” The matter was settled at the dinner itself,
when liquor was retained by 260 votes to 70.
The first real fox-hunt in S. Australia took place
at Mount Gambier—Adam Lindsay Gordon’s country
—on July 8. Horses and hounds were out when the
dogs started Reynard and ran him for five miles,
with 15 riders behind them. The fox then broke into
open country, and was “pulled down.” The excite-
ment has made hunters resolve to tackle the genuine
thing as often as possible. And that should be
pretty often, for recently eight were killed in one
day in one farming district.
Sincerely yours,
JOHNNA.
Famous Remedy in New Guise.
IMPORTANT NEWS FOR STOUT PEOPLE.
Few there are who have not heard or
read of the famous Marmola Prescription
by means of which thousands upon
thousands have cured themselves of the
disease of obesity. This great and mar-
vellously successful remedy, the gift to
the world of an eminent physician, in-
volved a little trouble in the pre-
paration. It is therefore grand news to
learn that all the essential and special in-
gredients of the famous Prescription have
been scientifically condensed into what will
henceforth be known as the Marmola Pre-
scription Tablets. In this delightfully con-
venient form the wonderful curative value
of the unique combination is, if anything,
enhanced. The dose is one tablet after
each meal and at bedtime. A weight re-
duction of lib. to 301 b. in as many davs is
now assured, without the least interference
with one’s ordinary mode of living. Eat
and enjoy what you like, and the decrease
of weight will be marked by daily increase
of strength. The gradual dispelling of
digestive troubles is another splendid re-
sult of the harmless Marmola Prescription
Tablets. The reduction of wmight is even
and natural and leaves no wrinkles. The
pure skin and healthy complexion is a re-
sult no less satisfactory than the recovery
of a slim and lissome figure. Marmola
Prescription Tablets are sold by all chem-
ists, price 3s. 6d., or sent post free on re-
ceipt of price by the Marmola Company, 7
Barrack-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTE. —For those who prefer the liquid
preparation, chemists are still dispensing
the famous prescription as follows: One
ounce of fluid Extract of Glycyrrhiza 8.P.,
one ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., one half-
ounce of Marmola, and mix with pepper-
mint water to make six ounces in all. The
dose is two teaspoonfuls after each meal,*


Miss Ethel Irving’s Tribute to Valaze.
IN Miss Ethel Irving’s performance of the prin-
cipal part in “ The Witness for the Defence,”
the critics are unanimous that here is an
actress of extraordinary resource, character and
beauty. Miss Irving’s acting is not soon to be
forgotten.
Miss Irving is not slow to recognise the great
value of the Valaze preparations. In a letter to
Mile. Rubinstein, she says : “ I have used the
Valaze preparations for about six weeks, and think
them perfectly wonderful for the skin.”
Thus does England’s actress testify to the effi-
cacy and beauty-giving properties of Valaze
preparations.
Miss Irving’s testimony has found most flatter-
ing corroboration on the part of Miss Lily Bravton,
who, acknowledging the unquestioned superiority
of the Valaze preparations, says : “ Every woman
should use Valaze to preserve her complexion.”
Miss Dolly Castles finds “the Valaze prepara-
tions wonderfully good for the skin,” and states
“ they are most delicious, and their effect is as
invaluable in the variable climate of England as it
is in the warmer zones of my homeland Australia.”
Miss Marie Studholme states “that in her
opinion the Valaze preparations are quite the best
of their kind she has ever use.l.”
Valaze is Nature’s own replenisher of skin
food, conveyed simply and gently with your finger
tips. Valaze clears and stimulates the tissues,
prevents congestion of the pores, so that the skin
breathes right, looks right, and is right. This
necessarily means freedom from tell-tale lines, and
brightness and freshness of the skin.
The Valaze complexion knows no speck or
freckle. The Valaze skin knows no wrinkle or
crowsfoot. By the use of Valaze, blotchiness
gives way to clearness and smoothness of the skin.
In jars, 3/6, 6/6 and 6d. postage.
Valaze Complexion Soap contains many of
the properties of the Valaze Skin Food. It will
sxW-
pPP :V • ' ■••^«WWB?S?WSggmB
I HAVE USED THE
PREPARATIONS FOR ABOUT
SIX WEEKS AND THINK THEM
PERFECTLY WONDERFUL FOR
THE SKIN
tually braced, and stimulated to healthy action.
Price, 2/10 a box, posted. No. 2 of same, for
more obstinate cases, 5/3, posted.
Valaze Powder and Novena Poudre.—
Mme. Rubinstein is the first complexion Specialist
to differentiate between the dry, moist, oily, nor-
mal and “ shiny ” skin when advising the use of
powders. To dust a “fatty” powder over a
greasy skin would be adding fuel to the fire; while
putting an absorbent powder on a dry skin would
not only make it difficult to adhere, but it would
also aggravate the dryness. In boxes, 2/- and 3/-.
Novena Cerate is an emollient skin-cleanser.
When the skin is delicate and sensitive or intole-
rant of soap and water, it should be cleansed with
Novena Cerate. It is rubbed well into the skin,
and the result is a delightful skin bath, such as
one finds quite a new experience. Price, 2/-
and 3/6.
Valaze Liquidine is a new complexion lotion,
and probably the most interesting and remarkable
preparation of the century. It overcomes many
undesirable conditions, among which are enlarged
pores, blackheads, undue flushing of nose and
face, and oiliness of the skin. It may be applied
twice daily, or more frequently, to remove dust,
travel stains and oily secretions. Price, 5/- and
8/6 a bottle.
Valaze Snow Lotion (a superb Viennese
Liquid Powder) is a beauty lotion par excellence.
It refreshes, cools and whitens the skin, and
enables it to retain that dull ivory finish so much
sought after. Price, 3/6 y 6d. postage.
Valaze Freckle Pasta is a preparation of
extra strength, to obliterate obstinate freckles and
to whiten the skin of the face and hands. Price,
5/3 posted.
Novena Sunproof and Windproof Creme
affords positive protection to the skin against the
sun as well as the wind. It is quite innocuous,
and may be used for children. Price 3/6.
be found quite different from any other soap in soothing the most sensitive skin.
It carries into the skin the glow of health, and gives that transparency aud satiny
feel which are such typical results of all the Valaze preparations. 2/2, posted.
Dr. Lykuski’s Blackhead and Open-pore Cure banishes these disfigure-
ments. It closes enlarged pores, cures a greasy, coarse skin, and assists in
preserving a healthy complexion. By its use the skin is perfectly cleansed, effec-
Valaze Skin Tonic is an anti-wrinkle lotion ; astringent, antiseptic, soothing
and stimulating. It is a safeguard against lines and looseness of the skin. 3/6 ;
6d. postage.
All orders, accompanied by remittance, should be addressed to Helena Rubin-
stein Prop. Ltd., Dept. 20, Valaze Institutes, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney; 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne ; and at Wellington, N.Z., and Mayfair, London.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
This is the O.T. Bottle (and Label).
See that you are SERVED FROM IT.
.T.
"REG. TRADE
O
W
*23
A DELICIOUS
DRINK&TONIC
i/!V
» USE A
(SMALL QUANTIT
WITH '
LEMONADE,
SODA WATER,
HOTORCOLD
WATER
ADOS FLAVOUR
A BODY.
rrhiiJvu.,
tyuvruhi
xfimne
XV
'lavc/v.
PariJ
bxhibihon
Wwnariowl
1909
Gold Medal
Diploma
SOLE MAKERS
O-T- LIMITED
EDDYAVENUESYDNEY.
I93HIGH yPRAHRAW VICTORIA'
STOCKHOLM ROLONDON.
tuny LA3£L vsueo er thc cohmny may/9//
When you
ask for
O.T.
avoid those who HOODWINK YOU
with Cheap Inferior Substitutes.
Their practice is to pour out substitutes without letting' you see the Label
or Bottle. BEWARE!
Those hotel Keepers who practise this deceit on their patrons are no
friends of yours, and do not deserve your custom.
Many hotels serve you honestly with O.T. Give these your sole patronage.
You can rely on the man who serves you with O.T. to serve you with the
best quality of all other brands of liquors.
We are obliged to draw attention to this matter to protect the Public from
being cheated, and to prote<st the good name of O.T.—both suffer
when this nefarious business is carried on.
The substitutes which are passed off as O.T. do not contain the ingredients
that have obtained for our beverage its great reputation, and hence
they do not possess its great virtues and merits.
£5O REWARD.
FINAL WARNING is hereby given that it is the intention of this Company to ISSUE
a SUPREME COURT WRIT forthwith against those traders who persist in passing off
other beverages when O.T. is asked for by the public. Such writs will claim :
1. An injunction to restrain the defendant, his servants or agents from passing off or
attempting or enabling others to pass off as and for O.T. any Cordial not the
manufacture of O.T. LIMITED.
2. Accounts and Inquiries.
4. Damages.
3. Profits.
5. Costs.
A REWARD of £5O will be paid to any person on whose information and evidence an
Injunction with Costs is awarded to this Company against any Defendant.
O.T. LIMITED, Sole MaKers of O.T.


A HINT TO THE WISE.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are regular,
and never well when they are irregular. Bear this
in mind and take Chamberlain’s Tablets as occasion
may require. There is nothing better. They are
mild and gentle in their action and are pleasant to
take. Try them and you will never wish to take
another dose of pills.*
The Rapid Healer,
Rexona provides the latest short cut of Science to
a complete Remedy for Pimples, Boils, Sores,
Wounds, and Skin Diseases generally. Which road
will you take, reader? The old-fashioned, tedious,
long way round full of irritations, relapses and delays,
or the short cut to the rapid remedy which modern
Science has provided you in the shape of Rexona.
Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
RHEUMATIC PAINS
♦
Not due to Cold, Wet Weather.
The Trouble is Rooted
in the Blood.
Many people believe that the twinges and
tortures of Ttheumatism are due to cold,
damp or wet weather, and treat themselves
by rubbing with liniments and lotions. This
is a serious mistake, and one which allows
the disease to progress to such an extent
that it is often impossible to get it out of the
system. Rheumatism comes trom poisonous
acid in the blood, and it must be cured
through the blood. All the liniments and
rubbing, and so-called electrical treatment
in the world will not cure Rheumatism.
This is a medical truth which every sufferer
from this excruciating trouble should know.
Rheumatism can only be cured by driving
the poisonous acid out of the blood, and en-
riching and purifying it. No other medicine
will do this so speedily and surely as Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. They actually make
the new', rich, red blood, which drives
out the poisonous acid, and builds up the
system, and makes the sufferer well and
strong. It is because they do this that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have cured thousands
of cases of Rheumatism after all other treat-
ment had failed.
“About eleven years ago I found that 1
was getting Rheumatism. It came on in
the back at first,” said Mr. J. W. Under-
wood, the well-known and respected resi-
dent living on Morrison-road, off Lindsley-
street, Gladesville, Sydney. “I thought to
get rid of the pain with the usual rubbing
lotions, but I found instead that the pain
spread to the left hip, and then went all over
me until it had me practically paralysed.
I could not move myself—l was more help-
less than a child confined to bed, day in and
day out. In fact, for five months I was bed-
ridden, and could only move when 1 was
helped or lifted out. Two doctors told me
that I had Rheumatism, and gave me
various medicines, but at the most I only
gained temporary relief. Strange to say,
the only parts that swelled were my knees.
At night I could not sleep, and at last the
pain was so excruciating that the doctors
gave me Morphia—and the only relief 1 got
w r as from this. I blame droving in Queens-
land, when I had to be out in all sorts of
weather, for starting the complaint; and I
might say I tried everything one could men-
tion, trying to get rid of the Rheumatism,
but I still suffered. When I was noi
crippled in bed with the pain I could only
get about on crutches, but I was so weak
that even these were of no use to me at
times, and often I had to rely on those at
home to help me about the house. After
about nine months of this terrible suffer-
ing, a lady at Galston advised me to try
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, as she had derived
great benefit from them herself. I had no
faith in them, but I thought I might as well
see what they would do for me, and 1
am thankful to say they proved invaluable
to me, for they cured me of every ache and
pain, and now I am as active and as nimble
as anyone could wish.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by
chemists and storekeepers, or sent by mail
on,receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes
15s. 3d., by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Urnrei
Bemoaning
your fate will
not mend a
rupture, but
Deny er's
Special
E I astic
Truss will
make you
forget it, and
give full se-
curity and
OENYER
©
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
comfort under all circumstances.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE STREET (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ;
and at Melbourne, cr. Swanston & Lonsdale Streets.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The practical S. Aus. Labor Government,
observing that racing is designed “for the
improvement of the breed of horses,” takes
it at its word, and intends to amend the
Totalisator Act accordingly. Under this
Bill the fractions left over after backers
have got their pounds and shillings are to
be paid to the Minister for Agriculture, who
will use the money in connection with a
scheme to establish liorse-breeding stations.
Under the no-totalisator law of Victoria
and N. S. Wales there are no fractions, and
they mostly breed asses.
Auckland (M.L.) City Council is talk-
ing about buying the adjacent Maori settle-
ment of Orakei and planting a model suburb
there. Fourteen years ago the valuation
was £12,900; to-day it is £85,000, and the
increase is wholly due to the city’s growth.
As a public body, the council sees how un-
just it is for the Maoris to pocket this un-
earned increment, though individually nearly
every man of them raises Cain at the mere
suggestion that the Government should take
a decent whack of unearned increment when
that increment is going into the white Fat-
man's pocket.
In the late C. C. Kingston’s day S. Aus.
got out of the habit of wasting weeks over
no-confidence motions; and it hasn’t gone
back altogetner on the big man’s “sudden
death” methods. On the useless Address-m-
Ileply at the opening, the other day, Opposi-
tion-leader Peake moved an amendment.
After T. Ryan had replied, there was a dead
pause, in the midst of which the Deputy-
Speaker put the question, and the Labor
majority easily carried the day. So Parlia-
ment was able to get to work right off, just
as Icy Irvine’s Victorian House did when
it was specially convened to deal with the
railway strike. The great Constitutional-
ists didn’t worry about any Address-in-Reply
flummery then!
CRAHTORD
YAUGHAN
(S.A.).
Australia's
your
Treasu[?]
There was more than one statement which
was incorrect (to say the politest thing) in
the Governor’s Speech read at the opening
of the Victorian Parliament’s third session.
Concerning the Referenda, the unfortunate
Fuller was made to say that “the right of
each State to exclusively control its domes-
tic concerns was endorsed by an overwhelm-
ing majority of the people.” It wasn’t.
Nor even by a majority of the electors.
The endorsement was given by a majority
of the electors who went to the poll on April
20; Moreover, the “right of each State # to
coiitrol its domestic concerns” doesn’t exist.
The concerns of each State are not con-
trolled by that State (which is to say, by
its citizens) but by a small minority of the
citizens, represented on a land-bncks-and-
mortar franchise in the Legislative Coun-
cil Fuller and his leg-millers should know a
human being from a terrace of houses.
“Strictly speaking, instead of being loaded
with debt, we are almost free from debt,
because our interest-earning public works
represent almost the whole of our borrow-
ings.” The Age is not unique in its quaint
idea that, if a man borrows 4s. lid., he does
not owe anything, provided he is wearing out
a coat worth ss.
The grave suspicion of Judge Hamilton,
recorded last week, that certain officers in
the N.S.W. Works Department were habitu-
ally guilty of accepting secret commissions,
draws attention to the fact that there has not
been any case tried yet under the Common-
wealth Secret Commissions Act. This would
seem to show (1) that terror of the
Act has killed the practice; (2) that it
never existed; or, (31 that the offence is the
most difficult of any known to the law to
prove. Both the man who receives the bribe
and the man who pays the illegal commis-
sion are liable, and, in consequence, neither
is likely to “split,” which makes the third
alternative look the most likely one.
Ex-Justice Hartley Williams is alleged to
have lately told a Brisbane interviewer that,
although he favored a White Australian
policy, lie felt that the Territory would
never be made white, and “could be de-
veloped only by the employment ot
colored labor, which should be per-
mitted north of a specified line.
Viewed in conjunction with his remarks on
the Japs, “who are turning their eyes Aus-
traliawards, and asking themselves why
they should not make use of territory at
present idle,” the utterances of H. Williams
amount to a suggestion that Japan might as
well supplv the inevitable colored labor north
of a specified line—a geographical line be-
ing a sort of impassable fence, The Bulle-
tin doesn’t think!
Opposition leader Peake gained nothing
by his No-Confidence motion in S. Aus., but
lost Coombe, who had been wobbling be-
tween the Opposition and the Ministerial
sides. Hitherto, the only thing which has
divided him from Labor is that he objects
to the abolition of the Council and favors
Kingston’s household suffrage with a vote
each for husband and wife instead of the
Labor alternative of adult suffrage tor the
Council. Kingston’s father tried to get house-
hold suffrage for the Council put into, the
S.A. Constitution when it was being framed
in 1855-0. From the very first S.A. had one
man one vote, with manhood suffrage tor
the Assembly, and there never has been a
property qualification for the Council mem-
bership, although voters have to pay about
£l7 a year in rent. So a man may be quali-
fied to sit in the stupid House without being
considered propertied enough to have a vote
for it.
THE “ LIBERAL ” SCHEME OF LAND
SETTLEMENT.
Mr. Wade has entered upon a campaign in the
country to elaborate the “Liberal” policy of closer
settlement. —News item.
Maoriland’s law against trusts, combines
and “gentlemen’s agreements” took its coat
off the other day when the Wellington lim-
ber Merchants’ Union made the error of try-
ing to collect some penalties from a recal-
citrant member. “Is the natural consequence
to restrain trade or take a bigger bite out
of the public?” asked the Court; and when
it concluded that that was just what the
horrible understanding was for, the Timber
Merchants’ Union had to walk its own
plank. But, then, Maoriland has the appal-
ling thing known as Unification, so a com-
bine can’t laugh at the law by registering in
one State and practising in another.
Premier Verran, of S. Aus., has just done
and said his wisest thing. The Opposition
dragged in a no-confidence motion. It never
had a hope, the numbers being certain; but
it gave a chance to say rude things—which
were duly said. Then Verran’s wise ac-
tion came in. It consisted in doing nothing
—just nothing. He was expected to get up
and be rude in reply for several hours; but
he simply sat tight, and the House found
itself voting. When angry questions were
asked afterwards, by a disgruntled Opposi-
tion, the Premier’s wise saying arrived.
Why hadn’t he followed the old custom? “I
am not bound to any of the traditions of the
business,” said Verran. “I’m here to re-
move the traditions of my forefathers !”
There are things more unlikely than that
the Weary-Watt Government will try to
make an election war-cry out of “Good
roads !” It seems prosaic, not to say piffling ;
but it will hit cocky and all his tribe where
they notice things, and wake them up. Ad-
mittedly the country roads are mostly in a
shocking state of disrepair; but Weary-Watt
won’t tell the truth, and say that that is
chiefly due to the tax-dodging landlord, who
has not only put on a low rate, but has based
it on a dishonestly low valuation. Instead
of telling the truth, and shaming the Devil,
the Government will no doubt propose to
take a little more blood out of the general tax-
payer, including the suburbanite, whose rates
are already in some cases three times heavier
than the average paid by Cocky and Co.
Re the announcement that land owners
have not waited to incur heavy penalties,
but have duly sent in their cheques for Fed-
eral land tax, Melb. Age says that the
Treasury expresses general satisfaction that
the money has been paid so freely, and ac-
counts for the ready payment by the good-
ness of the season.” The voice of the Age
sounds exactly like the voice of Fatman sug-
gesting that, though they haven’t been ruined
this good year, in a bad year something
dreadful may happen, and the awful tax may
then have to be reconsidered. If the Treas-
ury has opened its mouth and suggested that
view, it ought to be begged to close it again
and not make a fool of itself.
STILL SOLID.
THE WADE-ANT: “I
thought this would have split
it."
THE PIECE OF PAPER : “We now say that the
Land Conversion Bill will accomplish it.”
THE POLITICAL GRASSHOPPER: “’Ere, ’old
’ard! wot about my wedge?"
The Murray boundary between N.S.W. and
Vic., now in some sort of dispute, was settled
upon in the Legislative Council of the Ma
State on the motion of Bishop Broughton.
There had been a suggestion that the dividing
line should be further north; but the Bishop
had his eye on his own bishopric and its col-
lection plate, and that was the basis of his
Lordship’s motion.
The shades of Batman and
Fawkner will probably take a
trip acros the Styx to watch the
arrival of the first of the two
15,000-ton Holt steamers, and
see them tie up in the Yarra.
The pair of ocean giants are to
be built with comnaratively
light draught, so that, after roll-
ing across the world, they may
kick their way up the shallow,
hard-worked canal, and dump
their loads of merchandise right
on the doorstep of Melbourne’s
fluff and hardware emporiums.
And away to the west is the
fine deep harbor of Portland,
very much the same as when
the Hentys caught whales there.
One can imagine Melbourne’s
pioneers looking up in amaze-
ment at the floating mountains,
and wondering why the moderns
go to such trouble to use the
old muddy site Batman pur-
chase, or thought he purchased,
from the Jaga Jaga family for
200 handkerchiefs and some
sundries.
Not long ago the Age was the stern advo-
cate of State ownership of trams; but, re-
cognising that State control may presently
mean Labor control, it changes front so hur-
riedly as almost to upset its own apple-
cart :—-
A management that acknowledges a loss of £56,000
a year on the suburban railways, with its millions
of fares, is not an ideal authority for taking up
unfamiliar and complicated problems of tramway
working.
There is no proof that Melbourne suburban
railways are run at a loss; but the railways,
as a whole, toss hali -a million or so into the
general revenue, and if the Age were giving
its readers the straight griffin, it might have
argued that the management that earns half
a million of clear profit, after paying the
heavy burden of interest, is an ideal party to
boss the people’s trams.
As a result oi the recent census a redis-
tribution of State electorates is to be made
in the Ma State, and it looks as if the
country will lose at least one member. The
growth of the northern Sydney suburbs
makes it certain that one more seat must be
given to that side of the harbor. The four
North Shore seats are all “Liberal” pro-
perty, and the Fat crowd is joyful at the
prospect of a fifth button to its waistcoat.
But it is by no means certain that things will
work out that way. The rapidly-increasing
population settling about Milson’s Point is
practically all Labor-inclined; so if The
Point” is separated from the North Sydney
heights and Neutral Bay, Fat may presently
find himself confronted by a Sosh repre-
sentative planted in the doorway of his
citadel.
The robbery of the public by the spieler
jewellers who brand 9ct. goods with an 18ct.
stamp has lately been engaging the attention
of Sydney employers and employees, and at
a recent conference it was decided to send a
deputation to Acting-Treasurer Carmichael
with a request for legislation. A deputa-
tion was also sent to Premier Denham, at
Brisbane, to ask mm to pass similar legis-
lation ; and pressure is to be put on Acting
Willie Watt to bring Victoria into line; and
the other States will be “approached” in
turn. So by an elaborate waste of time and
public cash, and a lunatic scheme of carry-
ing the carats round in six shovels, the job
may be satisfactorily accomplished. Also,
maybe it won’t.
Hayseed Hogan, of Brocklesby (N.S.W )
told the recent Sydney Hayseed Conference
something interesting:
There were 63 members in his branch, men mostlv
who started in a very small way, until they owned
their own farms. He would willingly pay £2O capi-
tation fee to keep the Rural Workers’’ Union out.
Sixty-three cockies in one district, most of
whom started from scratch, and now own
their own farms! And Mr. Hogan can
afford to pay £2O per annum to his asso-
ciation. That settles it —farming is a
poverty-stricken business, so let all this fool-
ish talk about a “living wage” for employees
and the abolition of child slavery cease.
King O’Malley annexed a
bright idea when he lately sug-
gested that South Aus. and
Westralia should hand over to
the Federal Government a 25-
mile tract on each side of the
Transcontinental line. Parlia-
ment should insist on some en-
dowment of the sort. Crow-
eater and ’Groper politicians
know well that the only con
sideration for which a private
syndicate woul d
undertake to build
the line would In*
a huge land grant,
and probably a
money payment in
addition; and they
are surely pre-
pared to treat the
Commonwealth
generously as they
Avould a foreign
shindykit, seeing
that what they
would give to a
shindykit t h e j
would give away
altogether, whereas what they transfer
to the Commonwealth they merely trans-
fer to a co. in which they are big share-
holders.
ASKING TOO MUCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ministry has done well not to commit itself
with respect to the Melbourne tramway system. Imme-
diate legislation on that subject will not make an-
other blade of grass grow. To spend time arguing
about making the excellent means of communication
in the metropolis better, whilst the numerous “glue-
pots” on country roads are allowed to grow deeper,
would be a very poor kind of policy. —-Melbourne
Argus.
You can’t expect it! Goodness me !
’Twould be a dreadful policy!
What sort of Ministerial dunce
Would try to do two things at once?
How can they deal with city needs,
While Bungalong or Rooville pleads
For culverts, and Wow-wow grows sick
Through want of bridges o’er its “crick ?”
The logic of the thing’s so plain:
To legislate on tram and train
Can’t dig a single, blighted spud
Or help one milker chew her cud.
Then what’s the use? One might say more:
What are our legislators for?
Such vaunted measures as Defence
Won’t build a single dog-leg fence.
Your splendid dreams of nationhood
Don’t do the cocky any good.
Besides, there’s something more than that,
They’re apt to interfere with Fat!
VICTORIA.
DEN.


VICTOR PIANOS.
Si-
v
TfICTOR PIANOS are
" made specially for
us, and we sell them
fully guaranteed.
They are three-pedal Pianos.
JZ? jz?
The extra pedal is for use when
practising —ITS use adds years to
the life of the instrument.
jz?
We sell these grand Pianos
either for cash or on our time-
payment system.
JZ?
Catalogue and full particulars
of prices post free.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD.
And at Brisbane,
Newcastle (Si Toowoomba,
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
C. BRAND AUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works 3 Birmingham, England.
jg
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
I over the roughest
paper with the ease
| of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
!
"POT POURRI”
is the Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art. oB m d a E il BY
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars. —A fragrant smoke — 3d. each ; 5 for 1/- ; 18/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI ” Tobacco. — 40Z. tins, 2 /- ; Boz. tins, 4/= ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this —it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Perfect Picture Bioscope
ĝ
BEARD’S BIOSCOPE.
We are the Sole Agents.
The simplest and best result-
giving’ machine, capable of
operating after a few minutes’
experience.
IN every detail the “BEARD ”is a most
perfect machine. The Films can be
adjusted while running—the Lens is
always in optical axis—and Films can be
brought into position with gate aperture by
raising or lowering bottom handle.
Price £37 10s.
We have 1,000,000 ft. of Films for Sale or Hire.
Repair Work Accurately Executed.
We supply Showmen's Complete Outfits.
Write us —a small capital starts you.
EVERYTHING FOR THE SHOWMAN AT
JERDAN’S
“ The Leading
Cinematograph Specialists,’
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
♦Sydney,
A STEP IN ADVANCE.
FARMER’S Men’s Footwear.
WE are most exacting in our selection of the Footwear that shall carry Farmer’s
Quality reputation. They must not only fit well, wear well and look well, but
prove the most satisfactory Footwear our patrons have ever worn.
Our buyers demand these conditions when selecting Footwear from the manufacturers,
and that is the secret of the popularity our Footwear enjoys.
We quote two splendid examples :
f
ißs-liv
Gentlemen’s Smart Boot, made
in Box Calf, Glac6 Kid, Patent,
and Brown Lace, or Derby Out.
Splendid value, has the appear-
ance of a made-to-measure Boot.
Price 25/=
Freight Paid.
Box Calf and Glace Kid Boot,
Leather lined. Lace and Derby.
Every pair worth 21/-
18/6.
Price
j
Qenttemen' , s Fine Selected Box
Calf Boot, Whole Golosh, leather
lined. This Boot is manufactured
specially for wet weather. It has
a stout sole and wide welt, and is
very suitable for hard wear. Style
as illustrated. All sizes and fit-
tings in stock. Also Derby Gut.
Also in Gla-eC Kid. All worth 25/=
Price
Freight Paid.
IHave yon a copy o‘f our Men’s
Wear Catalogue ? We send
it anywhere Post Free on
request.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY


RIWUNB’S
KALYDOR
FOR ™ SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it*
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
BILIOUS ATTACKS.
SUFFERED FOR YEARS. DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS RESTORED HER TO HEALTH.
Mrs. Martha Simmons, 8 Cove Street.
Balmain, tells how she was ailing for years,
subject to bilious attacks, periodical head-
aches, and constipation from her school
days to Womanhood. “Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills were,” she states, “the salvation
of her life.” Read what she says
“In my teens I suffered very badly from
Bilious Attacks. My blood was very poor,
my whole system became completely run
down, and on many occasions I was so
weak that I had to be supported home by
fg
Mrs. Martha Simmons
(From a photo.)
my schoolmates, as i
grew older I did not
seem to overcome my
weakness, and I was in
tin's state of health for a
long time. Periodical
headaches, bilious at-
tacks and constipation
were my constant ail-
ments. I gave many me-
dicines a fair trial, but
I did not receive any
permanent relief._ The
salvation of my life was
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills; it was wonderful
how they relieved me of
bilious attacks. They
put life into my body,
regulated my system,
and I gradually grew
stronger, until I became
a perfectly healthy woman. I still use Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills occasionally, and
heartily recommend them to everybody. You
may use this testimonial just as you like for
publication.”
It Costs Nothing
TO GET PRICES AND FULL PARTICULARS
OF OUR UP-TO-DATE
Soda Fountains,
Automatic Carbonators
and Supplies.
The great saving we can show you is a
Price Argument
why you should write us to-day.
Time Presses 1 Give up the expensive old
method of buying minerals and adopt the inex-
pensive method of drawing all supplies from the
Fountain, and make more money.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
167 George Street, SYDNEY.
Missing: Friends.
JACOB PRICE (son of William Price, late of Ger-
*■' angamete, Victoria, farmer, deceased), last heard
of in West Australia, or anyone who can furnish any
information regarding him, is requested to communi-
cate with the
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY,
LIMITED,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HAYCORT.— Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
THOMAS HAYCORT, who left England about
1881, please communicate with
MRS. NANCY GARLICK (nee Hardman),
16 Clockclod Street,
Radcliffe,
Near Manchester,
England.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
West Australian Agents—WICHARD
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Roughly, the difference between Arnst
and Pearce is a stone weight. Both men are about
the same height; Arnst carries the extra poundage
about the arms and shoulders and chest. It is said
Pearce’s stroke is not as long as Arnst’s, and this
and the extra poundage make up Arnst’s physical
lead. But Pearce’s party is not depressed ; it retorts
by pointing out that Pearce is an unusually fast
striker, and the party seems to think this will equal-
ise things. Of course, there remains the question of
stamina; and of that we know nothing, and will
know nothing till about 4.30 p.m. on July 29. The
confidence of Pearce’s followers in their man is
tremendous; it reminds one of the confidence Fitz-
patrick had in Johnson before the dusky one met
Burns. They ask for odds truly, but they ask for
them as a right, because Arnst is champion, and it
is noticeable that some of them, when they can't get
odds, take level money.
They are talking of a “trial” that took olace be-
tween the gentlemen on the Parramatta last week.
Pearce went up to Ryde Bridge apparently looking
for his man ; for he fooled around till Arnst came up,
and broke away with him from the bridge. Start-
ing with an absolute bound, the challenger headed
the champion by a couple of lengths, and went like
the Devil pursuing a soul that has broken bounds.
But Arnst crowded up so close, that at Uhr’s Point
Pearce almost ran aground. With a laugh Arnst hauled
out, and they went at it again and took turns in the
lead. Three times Arnst shot past Pearce, and then Pearce
shot past Arnst, and at Cabarita Pearce was in fiont
with a few lengths to spare. Arnst did not' come
again, but headed back for Mortlake. As far as
can be gathered from conflicting accounts, Pearce
showed up best; but there is no guarantee that Arnst
was either fully extended or properly wound up.
The incident has created a flutter in both camps; it
certainly succeeded in being what it was probably
intended for —a cute advertising , *
The ladies’ sculling championship of Aus-
tralia will be splashed for once again on the
Parramatta River on August 26, when Miss Gertie
Lewis (holder) and Mrs. Woodbridge (with a large
family at home) will struggle for the title. Miss
Lewis has already withstood a few onslaughts; but
Newcastle barrackcrs are buttressing the challenger
with boodle which has a convincing halo about it.
Union Rugby finished its first round in
Sydney on Saturday, University being at the top of
the tree with 16 Competition points. It was hard
luck for Manly that it was flattened out by Glebe
on Saturday, as but for that disaster it would have
been second on the list with 15 points, ahead even
of last year’s premiers. But it was smashed, and
Newtown takes second place with 14 points, while
Western Suburbs and Manly have 13 each. Glehe,
which shot the albatross, has only 10; and the other
five clubs range from eight to two.
Although the day was perfect, the ground, owing
to recent rains, was greasy, and the handling of the
ball difficult. Heaven only knows what went wrong
with Manly. Never was such a falling off ; it was as
though the team had gone back six years. It was
hamstrung, paralysed, and gone in the knees and
head. Practically it lay down while Globe galloped
over it —24 to nil. Balmain had an afternoon out
at the expense of Eastern Suburbs, kicking up 14
points to 8. The once-formidable South Sydney club
is slowly dying, and University did the cat-and-mouse
trick with it on Saturday. Up to within a few
minutes of the end, ’Varsity affected to be having a
great struggle, and scored 6 to nil with apparent
difficulty ; then, considering the farce had gone far
enough, it let loose, and in a few minutes before the
whistle went, scored three tries and converted one
of them, winning by 17 to nil. There was, however,
no falling off about Newtown; and, although Uni-
versity Oval was like a vast field of. tanglefoot, the
Newtowners managed to haul their big feet through
it sufficiently fast to score 2J points to the 11 ot
Western Suburbs. St. George journeyed to North
Sydney, and probably wished it badnt, ior the wild
Hillmen of the oversea suburb kicked 29 points to
s—the5 —the sort of thing that makes a football team
wish it had never been hatched.
* * *
Saturday's Rugby League excitement was
the third and last match against Maonland. About
35,000 people looked on, and, almost unanimously
decided that this was about the worst team that
ever came out of Maoriland. In fact it was a mob,
not a team. It was supposed to contain the cream
of last season’s League and Union players, whereas
it was skimmed milk, with one small speck of cream,
in the shape of Francis, floating in the middle. In
every branch of the game it was inferior to the
NSW. teams it met. If it had better forwards,
superior backs; more combination, higher speed, in-
creased kicking ability .and finer knowledge of
tactics, it could be made into a decent team. That s
about all there is to be said about it, excepting
that on Saturday it was butchered by 39 points to 7.
The selectors of the Australasian Rugby
League team for Britain slept better last week-end.
after sorting out 28 players from a mountain of
eligibles. The team is a combination of good, sturdy
items, who are not likely to disgrace this section of
the world; and, although a few surprises have crept
in, there is little to cry about. N.S.W. is repre-
sented by 23, M.L. supplies four, and Queensland one.
The team throws the togs aboard on August 5, and,
while the wandering lasts, the League will deal out
£2 a week to each player. * #
N.S.W. Rugby Union has a nightmare
ahead of it, as the League, having a heavy purse, in-
tends to bid hard next year for the playing-spaces
around Sydney. The only sections which will not be
sought after are the University Oval and the Union’s
own white elephant at Epping. At the rate things
are going, it won’t be very long before the Union
drops or is pushed over the horizon.
In the N.S.W. Rugby League matches
against Maoriland and Queensland, “Dally” Messen-
ger scored 110 points out of the Ma’s State’s 246,
and if he had played selfishly the record could have
been puffed out to still greater #
In Melbourne on Saturday a huge crowd
went out to Victoria Park to see Collingwood
avenge the walloping it got from Essendon.
But, after a fast, open and strenuous game,
with the excitement maintained to the finish,
the premiers again found their score a
trifle short—23 points to ’Don’s 29. For fully three-
parts of the game the ’Dons were defending, but,
when they did get possess.on, their system was
found to be in going order. On the other hand, the
Magpies, though doing most of the work, fumbled
and blundered —and lost. The other contestants for
semi-final chances, Carlton and ’Roy, had soft things
on in ’Varsity and St. Kilda, Carlton outing the
Students by 66 to 22, and ’Roy dittoing the Saints
bv 84 to 26. South collided with Melbourne, and
had to put its best foot forward, as the presence of
the G.-G. and much of the Sheffield Choir moved
the big cricket club’s team to extra efforts. Skinner’s
hirelings, however, managed to gather in 62 points
to Melbourne’s 49, which, as the boy said when he
cleaned out the .jam factory, was enough. Though
neither Geelong nor Richmond can reach the finals,
their scuffle was tremendously energetic. In the last
term the Yellow-and-Blaeks piled on 34 points to
Geelong’s 2, and won easily by 80 to 60. It was a
splendid effort—at the wrong end of the season.
In the Ass. Essendon continued its vic-
torious career by jumping on Williamstown (71 points
to 28), and P’ran maintained its place as runner-up
by scoring 88 to Northcote’s 32. Port, ’Wick and
North continued the scuffle for third and fourth
places. Port had a “cert” in Preston, and won hy
77 to 30. ’Wick and North met each other, and a
tremendous scrimmage ensued, every man being “ail
out” when the bell rang. The premiers had, if any-
thing, the better of the argument, but their lament-
able kicking left them in default —Brunswick 48
points, North 33. As they have a tougher pro-
gramme before them than the other two, their “final”
chances don’t look too rosy. A fierce hubbub down at
Footscray emphasised the joy of the barrackers at the
collision of ’Scray and Brighton. Each team kicked
5 goals; but, as ’Scray also annexed 20 behinds to
Brighton’s 7, it won by 13 points—though this
writer wouldn’t argue the point if a barracker de-
clared it was 15, or 50 for that matter. The junior
’bailers raged in their customary unscientific fashion.
Caulfield (Metropolitan Ass.) set a precedent that has
points about it —and also drawbacks. It was playing
the Collegians, and at half-time had scraped up 5
points to its opponents’ 97, whereupon it went home
to tea and mother.
Australian Rules football will be hung
up in Sydney till August 19, the intervening time
being utilised by Riverina, Westralian and Victorian
club teams, while the N.S.W. team is lending a hand
in the big inter-State blow-out at Adelaide.
South Aus. takes its horseracing—as it
takes most things except religion—in moderation.
Adelaide has no ponies, and no unregistered meet-
ings. The two big clubs have only 14 days between
them in the year, and Tattersall’s and The Port make
Up 10 more. There is no betting (lawfully), except
per totalisator on the spot. Only two local owners
won over £IOOO on the metropolitan tracks during
the last racing year —,T. James and T. Keily, both
trainers. E. E. D. Clarke, Brockman, and Creswiclc
each took a four-figure cheque out of the State.
But there were fully 70 —lawyers, doctors, brokers,
farmers, and so on —-who got a lot of fun out of the
game, and from £IOO to £9OO each towards ex-
penses. The winning sires were Pistol, Bobadil and
Pvgmalion; then came Koran, Isinglass, Wallace,
Maltster and Aryan. Leading trainers: James, Pat-
terson, and Whelan. Best jockey (easily), G. Bax,
who has refused tempting offers from Merton, in
Sydney, and Hickinbotham, in Melbourne. Finally,
the totalisator put through (counting Oakbank in)
over £400,000, of which the clubs got £30,000 to
increase stakes and reduce entrance fees with. The
State got £IO,OOO. The private “promoter” and the
Man with the Bag got nothing. #
Fred Archer, the immensely popular Eng-
lish jockey, who died about 20 years ago, left >ne
infant daughter and a handsome fortune. It has been
well invested, and when the lady married a country
squire’s eldest son last month, she took an estimated
£IOO,OOO dowry with her.
“Snell”: Ryugoro Shima, the jiu-jitsu
specialist, scored an official victor}' over Jack Howard,
a Sydney middle-weight pug., in their mixed encounter
at Melbourne Guild Hall last week, and the fact is ac-
claimed as proof positive that the clever wrestler is
better armed against aggression than the clever boxer.
Asa matter of fact, nothing was proved but the ae
cepted belief that a boxer, with both hands put out
of action by gloves as big as railway air-cushions,
is no match for an unfettered wrestler. To my
mind the display was admissible evidence that the
good boxer with bare dukes could win every time.
Howard, despite his puff-ball handicap, swung a
right to Shima’s brownstone front in scene 1, act 1,
and put him foolish for close upon five minutes.
That, as a demonstration Of the efficacy of boxing
over wrestling, was a “dead cert.” But the stipulation
was for three bouts, and, after being brought round,
Ryu go r a won the other two, laming his man with an
ankle wrench. Howard is about Class 111. as a
boxer, but he had a two-stone reach over the brown
person, and would certainly have woodened Japan
had he not been forced to smite with a muffled
punch.
* * * *
Shima, the Jap, has given the cue for a
mixed match-making on the only really fair terms,
by declaring that he would rather have his opponents
bare knuckled than gloved. The spectators would
just love it. # »
The rapidly rising Melbourne feather, mis-
called Kid McCoy, notched another victory in the
Athletic Club’s ring when he met Billy Elliott, the
clever little Sydneysider. McCoy waded right in
when the cymbal clashed, but Elliott jumped away,
and did some slick fancy dancing in his efforts to
avoid. Kid’s straight left got into communication
with his rival often and hard in the early rounds,
and now and then a disconcerting uppercut was
whipped in. The fifth was a particularly merry
round, wherein McCoy’s ability as a punishing pug
was almost equalled by Elliott’s cultured smartness
in getting his face out of the way of the 19 pairs ot
hands his enemy seemed to be revolving. The ninth
showed Elliott to good advantage as a cheerful giver.
He put quite a batch of bright punches up against
the Kid’s countenance, but for all that there was
little room for argument as to which boy was play-
ing daddv. In the two subsequent rounds the Sydney
boy was practically whipped off the boards. He
came in gamely for the twelfth, but it was an up-
and-down round for him, and his seconds saw fit t
throw in the washing. # #
“Umfaan”: Bill Squires was in the ring
at Tamworth (N.S.W.) a few days back, referee-ing
a contest at catch-weights. What interested m„
most was not the very weak exhibition put up
by the two principals, but Bill himself. He fights
Lang, the defier of Johnson, at Brisbane next month.
Yet he possesses a most decided bingy. Not the
ordinary soft thing of the untrained basher, but the
strongly-developed corporation of an embryonic aider-
man. Bill says he is in good fettle, and fancies his
chances, but how he reconciles his chances with his
protuberance it is hard to say. #
Evidently time is turning backward, for
news comes that not only has “Boshter Bill” re-
covered his punch (lost so often), but also the old
dash which he used to display in Victoria. Mar-
vellous !
* * * *
The financial affairs of Jack Johnson,
pug, are still attracting attention. It now transpires
that the four variegated automobiles in which
he flashed through Coronation time, were his
own and not borrowed. It seems he took three with
him from America, and bought a fourth immediately
on arrival in London. The stone-broke yarn is evi-
dently a fake. #
The Vic. Amateur Athletic Ass.’s cham-
pionship competitions revealed an all-round falling-
off. For several years amateur biffing had been on
the up-grade, but none of the 1911 lads strike the
practised observer as being up to A 1 quality. The
middle-weight milling brought Patsy O’Brien out
on top. lie won from W. Bailey on points, in a
somewhat pointless engagement. N. Marshall beat
D. Bailey in the welter division. This was livelier.
Marshall’s superiority was just plain enough to
justify the verdict. The last stand of the light-
weights was a gaudy show, but the fighting was more
vigorous and spectacular than scientific. An extra
round had to be battled through before the referee
could make up his mind that R. Battlev had licked
F Perrv. A. Kay beat W. Scott quite decisively,
and shines as boss cocky of the feather brigade. W.
Iggulden is master bantam for 12 months to come.
He whipped 11. Gray on points after the. latter had
captivated the popular fancy by the stylish manner
in which he sailed through all other opponents.
There is talk of reorganising amateur
cycling in and around Sydney on an absolute dis-
trict basis. At the present time a numoer of clubs
call themselves after various suburbs; but, barring
the fact that most of the members reside in those
suburbs, the clubs do not represent them respective
districts in any way. There may be m the same
district two or more clubs running under fancy
names with larger membership rolls and better riders.
Under existing circumstances, clubs go out of then-
way to secure good riders regardless of where the
gentlemen hang out their cycling stockings to dry.
Whether the district movement would do cycling good
is an open question. Certainly it would make for a
large and healthy rivalry in the big contests; on
the other hand, it might destroy what is half the
charm of cycling—the pleasure of an afternoon s
run in congenial company. Congenial company
counts for more in cycling than in almost any other
sport. At football, lacrosse, cricket, hockey--every
field game in fact —the game itself is the thing.
After the play is over the players are not much in
one another’s company, and during play there is no
time for social amenities. But in cycling the com-
pany is well-nigh everything. The proposal requires
deep consideration. #
Jake de Rosier, America’s flying motor-
bikist, has arrived in England for his match with
the English crack, Collier. De Rosier holds every
motor-bike world ' record from one mile to the
hour. He has been whirling since 1898, and has
broken an ankle, a collarbone, left arm, and 16 ribs
(more or less), and is scarred and seamed from top
to toe. Once, the part that grips the saddle
was roasted through his travelling along the
asphalt track on it instead of on his motor-bike.
And he still whirls. One of his finest performances
was when he rode 24 miles on a road in 26mm. over
an out-and-home six-mile course, turning around a
barrel at each end. His match with Collier on the
Brooklands course (Eng.) will be the race of the
year. * *
. The Victorian Cycle Traders’ Association
swung a heavy axe last week. Some agents offered
bonuses to induce riders to change their mounts for
the big road-races. The Association kicked back
by deciding to refuse all entrants who ride the
machines of any cycle agents who hold out induce-
ments to intending competitors to change their
mounts. Every entrant for the V.C.T. 100 miles
road-race will have to nominate the machine he in-
tends to ride; and similar action will, if necessary,
be taken in the big Warrnambool-Dunlop race.
* * *
F. Faber ran over the 367 miles between
Bordeaux and Paris this year in 181ir. 31min. The
race is the big cycling thing of France; and this
year gives the winner an added glory, as the first
188 miles had to be done without pace. In gay
France thev do the pace-making business properly.
One cycle firm had about seven representatives run-
ning, and they were served with three motor-cars and
30 pace-makers. Another firm had five, among.
whom was Faber; this group had four motor-cars
carrying supplies, stimulants, spare machines and
tyres, besides 30-odd pace-makers. The Dunlop
Rubber people are jubilant over the. fact that the
first three finishers rode Dunlops; this makes 16 ot
these, races that have been won by their tyres out of
a total of 21. Faber’s time is not the record; that
is held bv Trousellier, who is employed by the same
firm and who, in 1908, ran over the distance m
17hr. 4:1 min. lOsec., paced by single bicycles.. A
curious thing is that, in 1897, with motor-bike pacing,
ltivdorre took 20hr. 36min. 46sec. It seems strange
that the bicycle-paced record should beat that of the
motor. Another remarkable fact is that the tandem-
paced time made by Gregor is slower still, being
24hr. 12min. 15sec. In 1899 Hurot put up the
fastest time ever made between the two cities, 16hr.
35min. 47sec; but, as he was paced by a motor-car,
it does not count in comparisons. #
There were 138 entries for the annual
four-mile open handicap, conducted by the Essendon
(Vic ) Harriers, and the 132 who toed the mark
made a record for Australasia. The winner turned
up in the verv vouthful E. Neate (Carlton), with a
handicap of lrhin. lOsec., while W. J. Miller (St.
Stephen’s), 2min. 55see., and B. Keown (Coburg),
2min , filled the places. The watches made Neate s
time 20min. 41see., which shatters the Victorian
record of 20min. 44sec., put up by George Blake
last July, and also the 20min. 50sec. credited to Stan
Long (the Victorian three-mile champion) m the
four-mile race last year.
* * *
There can be no new bowling talent of
much importance among the English pros., seeing
that the Gentlemen “amateurs” beat them by 130
runs last week, and J. R. Hobbes scored 164 not
out in the second innings. All the same, the cable,
with another English XI. expedition in view, will soon
be giving us startling details of batting and bowling
feats in county matches.
v * * * *
N.S.W. Bowling Association is . still
topsv-turvv. When the executive officers recently
threw in the sponge, F. E. Munro (St. George) took on
the president’s job; but last week he resigned, and
R A Bell (of the North Coast Cos.) shouldered the
trouble To straighten out matters, the committee
has suggested that a levy of 3s. per annum for city
members, and something less for those in the country,
should become law —the funds to be devoted to paying
a secretary. It was over this that the previous kick-
up occurred; and the members have therefore the
option of heaving out the suggestion, and thus risk-
ing the smash of the Association, or becoming more
reasonable. , # *
Though N.S.Yv. stands outside the door,
the Australian Bowling Council has been put on its
lecr S It will control inter-State matches, and also
endeavor to solve various complex problems. Unless
NSW relents it may be pushed aside when inter-
State matches are arranged, which will be calculated
to put Ma in a frightfully bad humor.
Last Saturday’s baseball in the Sydney
mud left Lane Cove at the head of the competition
with 16 points, Leichhardt being close on their ap-
pendage with 14 ; ’Varsity, Waverley and Petersham
are on the 10 mark, and the others are far to rear-
ward. On the coming Saturday, inter-State teams
from Vic. and Tas. will play rounders against N.S.W.
rep. teams at Sydney, and the local competition will
be hung up in consequence.
Victorian Cricket Association has lost its
secretary and encyclopaedia, E. D. Heather, after 32
years of office. Jack Healy, who has represented
Victoria in inter-State cricket, has been planted in the
vacant chair. * * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association has decided
to purchase a strip of water-frontage on the Parra-
matta River, and erect a club-house of its own, and
thus escape the rental at present paid for George
Towns’s big boatshed at Gladesville. (Of course,
that won’t upset Towns much, as the just-launched
professional body is on the look-out for a place to laj-
its head). The Association also intends to hold a
“Henlev” on the Lane Cove River next year; while
practical support will be given in despatching an
Australasian eight-oar crew to Sweden in connection
with the 1911 Olympic Games. Altogether the As-
sociation is very much alive at present, and, as funds
are bulky, it can do a great deal while in the humor.
* * * *
Harry Busteed, one of three Australians
who went London-wards to learn to fly, is now itia'y
ing cross-countrv flights. He is mastering the art of
steering in the "air, and has made some good turns.
They call him “The Australian Pupil” at the Salis
bury Plains camp, and predict great earthly flights
for him if fatal circumstances don’t shift him to a
higher sphere of aviation. #
The New York Telephone Cos. recently
decided to purchase 100 motor vehicles. After con-
sideration they secured 63 20-h.p. Ford cars, the bal-
ance of the 100 being made up in lorries of one-ton
and three-ton capacity. # »
It appears next door to a certainty that
both America and England will play for the Davis
Cup at Christchurch (M.L.). The expenses of the
English team have been guaranteed by a tennis bar-
racker** i and advices from America state that Uncle
Sam’s players are getting in fettle for the trip. Nor-
man Brookes will pick the Australasian team; and
if Wilding is back from his sojourning, he and
Brookes will possibly for the third time carry the
white man’s burden for these parts.
SIX-STONE-SEVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not view his face with joy;
He makes my lungs draw quicker breath,
The little, six-stone-seven boy
Who rides a race with Death.
He sits on Blankson’s jerky colt
(Who has that seat is not in clover) ;
Then comes a lurch, a bump, a jolt,
And half the field is over!
Pell-mell they pile, a shattered crew,
With cries of anguish thickly spoken ;
Perhaps the little boy gets through,
But other necks are broken.
Up skyward in the Jockeys’ Heaven,
Where races are Elysian pageants,
They call the boys at six-stone-seven
“Our immigration agents.”
VICTORIA.
L.


THE “MOTA” HAT
(Regd.).
THE man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a DESIRE for the Mota” —he
has a NEED for one. For the “ Mota” at a
small price is the most comfortable and most dis-
tinctively stylish Soft Felt of the day.
For motoring, cycling, riding, drivimr and general
wear for town and country it is the Ideal Hat.
The material is good—it will wear well ; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit your style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “ Mota” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
7/A
<JU
/
O
The product of
Qne source only
More mile* on * Shell" than
on any otheiv
Its perfect purltv - that’s
the point*
ri’IHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Better
Tennis
Shoes.
fgj
PERDRIAU RUBBER-SOLED SHOES
are built on scientific lines. Ibey do
not draw the feet, and when the rubber
wears out the soles can be renewed at small
expense. They are made to give good ser-
vice, to look well, and be comfortable.
MEN’S BEST WHITE CANVAS
SHOES, plain or with canvas cap and strap.
Leather insole, iin. best rubber soles. 12/b
per pair.
LADIES’ BEST WHITE CANVAS
SHOES, plain, iin. rubber soles, as above,
10/8 per pair.
MEN’S BEST WHITE BUCKSKIN
SHOES, with cap and strap, leather insole,
fine finish, iin. best rubber soles, 21/- per
pair: same shoes, but with fin. soles, 22/6
per pair.
LADIES’ BEST WHITE BUCKSKIN
SHOES, with cap, iin. rubber soles, as
above, 17/- per pair.
Postage on shoes, 9d. per pair extra. Send
your order by mail if you cannot call.
Write for a free copy of our Price List.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods.’’
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Michelin
Tyres.
c
HEAP, Second-Hand 15BrakeH.
TANG YE GAS ENGINE,
P
1M GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE
214 George Street, Sydney.
High-Efficiency.
Machine Tools!
fgfjg
THE Machine Tools that we
stock come from the World’s
best makers, ?od embody the
latest devices for assisting rapid
production and saving labor—yet
maintaining accuracy throughout.
We have Lathes, Drilling, Planing,
Shaping, Milling, Slotting, Screwing,
Grinding, Hacksaw, and Punching
and Shearing Machines. Write for
Catalogues M 3 and M 4.
‘ For High-Grade Machinery,'
Thos. McPherron 8 Son, 582-588 Collins St., Melbourne.
63 FORDS
Bought by
One Company.
THE New York Telephone Co.
decided to purchase 100 Motor
Yehieles. After considering every
car in America and the World, the Com-
pany bought 63 Ford Model “ T ” Tour-
ing Cars of the 100. The balance was
made up in Lorries of 1- and 3-ton
capacity.
They bought 63 Fords because
Fords are the best, cheapest, most
economical and reliable of cars.
'• NHS Si
SOLE AGENTS IN VICTORIA—
TARRANT MOTORS PROPRIETARY Ltd.
104-112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
ĝj
RIGNEY SHOES^
are made along quality lines for the man who wants style, lit
and individuality in his footwear.
Rigney Shoes cost a little more by the pair, but less by
the year.
The Shoe illustrated is a Choice Tan Willow Calf Oxford
Shoe, smart shape, very serviceable and comfortable.
Price 18/6. Postage 9d. extra.
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR NEW CATALOGUE.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and
179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. P. C. Rigney, the
sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
A. M. L. 8 F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian, Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co.. Ltd.)
~ ♦ FOR .♦.
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager.
Also at Melbourne <SL Brisbane.
ĵ
“Triumphs” Again to the Fore.
One of the greatest tests of “ Triumph ” speed, reliability and endurance has
just been completed by Mr. Oatt, the English holder of the long-distance record.
In November last year he covered the distance of 1882 miles, under adverse road
and weather conditions, in six consecutive days, but recently on his “Triumph ” he
completely eclipsed this performance when he rode 2557 miles in the same time
without a'single mechanical stop, and previously he had ridden 9000 miles on the
same machine, not needing repairs of any kind during the whole time.
Let us show you a “ Triumph ” Motor Cycle. It is the best made and low-priced at £67/10/=. Call at
our Pitt Street Depot and see one, or write for a Catalogue. Open till 9 p.m. * riday.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Sole Agents for “ Triumph ”
234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh
in N.S.W.,
Street, SYDNEY.
DUNLOP
GROOVED.
BEST
. rito
FOR
CARS)
<£>
BEST
FOR
fIOTOR
CYCLES
?
©
l-Hi
RUBBER
STUDDED.
DUNLOP
1 MOTOR TYRES
have proved themselves the most Reliable
and Economical for Cars and Motor
Cycles. The strength of Casing, Quality
of Wearing Tread, and thorough work-
manship in these big mileage Tyres
ensures you getting the BEST SERVICE
at the MINIMUM COST.
LIST POSTED ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Britbane,
Wellington, Chrutchurch,
N.Z.
•‘Crass”: If there are 103,027 distinct
contagious disease microbes on the average
leaf of the average police-court Bible, as has
been guessed at by one or more microbe
statisticians, I want to know what is the
approximate number in the average tobac-
conist’s stock of pipes. Thousands of men
daily walk into tobacconists’ shops in Aus-
tralia to buy a pipe, and generally put half
a dozen into their mouths before they make
a final selection —“Too heavy,” “Doesn’t fit
the stem-tooth,” “Doesn’t draw free, Ac. —
and the next pipe customer goes through
much the same performance. I admit that
in advanced consumptive stages smoking is
almost impossible, and pipe-smoking seldom
strongly desired; but the germ-carrier, the
miner’s complaint victim, or the ordinary
consumptive in the early stages,_ often_ seeks
solace in tobacco, and generally is fastidious
in his choice of pipes. The danger should
be squelched at the same time as that awful
system Mr. Public-house has of slushing in
the common tub, and wiping with the
common towel, glasses and pewters_ after
they have been drunk from by the diseased
and others. I understand that system is to
be abolished by the Health Department in
19,208, and the pipe business will probably
have attention soon afterwards.


THE HOUSE FOR BEAUTIFUL WEDDING GIFTS.
A. SAUNDERS
THOUSANDS OF DELIGHTFUL IDEAS TO CHOOSE FROM
STRAIGHT FROM OUR LONDON HOUSE.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Pure Silver-plated
and Engraved. 4/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Highly Burnished,
and Richly Embossed, £2.
■«KB
SAUNDERS.
SAUCE BOAT AND DRIP-OATCHER, Pure
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, Beaded Edge,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHINA SALAD DISII, Floral Design, Hand-painted.
Size, 9in x 9in. 0/0-
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR AND CREAM STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
Frame, Floral China, 35/-
pwni in
55ESS
M v
W:
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Hand-painted, '
Carlton China. Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver Mounts, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
ART CHINA STATU-
ETTE ORNAMENT,
Tlin 'high, 5/- P air -
9in high, 7/ per Pair.
OUR
JEWEL-
LERY
CATA-
LOGUE
IS
FULL
OF
RARE
DESIGNS.
WRITE
FOR
A
FREE
COPY.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON
SILVER
WARE.
WE
DO
NOT
PAY
POSTAGE
ON
CHINA
GOODS.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON CAKE DISH, Hand-painted
Floral China, size 9in, fi/Ft.
Small Servers to match, 1/6 each.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Crystal
Glass Dish, 1 ,2/fi.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRUIT SALAD DISH, Silver-plated Nickel Silver
Frame Handsomely Decorated China Dish, 1.13/6
A. SAUNDERS.
CALL BELL,
Pure Silver-
plated, Solid
Silver Handle,
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUMB SCOOP, Pure Silver-piated, Nickel Silv
Highly Burnished, Richly Hand-engraved,
15/6-
ORDER BY
MAIL
TIS EASY
AND SO
SATISFACTORY.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE AND STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Rustic Stand, Richly
Embossed, £2/10/-
AN IDEAL GIFT.
ROSE BOWL, Hand-embossed, Gilt-lined,
Silver-plated, Mounted on Ebony, £2,
£2/5/, £2/10/, £3.
A
Rate,
Beautiful,
and
Quaint
Design,
£2.
Of
Fine
Work-
manship
and
Perfect
Finish,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS. \
SALAD BOWL AND SERVERS, Handsome Glass
Bowl, Pure Plated Nickel Silver Mounts,
“Squirrel” Design, 120/-
WRITE FOR A COPY
OF OUR
HOME EYE TEST CHART.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENGLISH OAK SALVER, 18in, Silver-plated Nickel
Silver Gallery, Handles, and Feet, 20/-
DESIGNED BY THE BEST ENGLISH ARTISTS
IN MANY BEAUTIFUL FORMS.
THE VARIETY IS IMMENSE. QUALITY Al.
PRICES MOST MODERATE.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG FRAME AND SPOONS,
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Pure
Crystal Cut Glass, 15/6-
OUR
SILVER-
PLATE
CATA-
LOGUE
CONTAINS
OVER
2000
ILLUS-
TRA-
TIONS.
IT
IS
QUITE
EREE.
THE
LARGEST
VARIETY
OF
UP-TO-DATE
NOVELTIES
IN
AUSTRAL-
ASIA.
OF
BEAUTY,
EXCLUSIVE-
NESS,
AND
VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHINA TEASET, 40 Pieces,
Handsome Floral and Gilt
Design, 22/G-
Similar Designs, 24/6, 30/,
up.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated,
Nicely Embossed,
3/-
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE OR FRUIT DISH, Silver-plated Frame,
Fancy Floral China Dish, 7/({.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated, Richly Iland-
t 7 --’ -'sped, “Waratah” Design, 27 ! (\-
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Silver-plated, “Gondola’ :
Design, Clear Crystal Dish, Richly Bur-
nished Frame, 12/6
A. SAUNDEKS.
SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-plated
on White Metal,
Handsomely Hand-
embossed, 3in,
13/6.
m
ma
m
3 ■•'S3
asa
ip®a
Sana®
•S»
@8
m
g
s©
m
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Ric'hl.-y
Burnished Crystal Glass Bottles,
21/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Cherry De
sign Handsomely Embossed, Satin Finish, 30/
A
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE, Pure
plated, A 1 Quality, Richly Embossed
lined, with Covers, £ 3/3/-
Silver-
, Gilt-
i
MAKER U
V
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.813.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY. W.S.W.
'SILVERSMITH
c0 SSULT//y c
Mortician


YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A
‘SMOKE * IS TILL YOU'VE
Tried MY CIGARS
OIVY\.
I’M going to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australas a—and the most confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too.
Talk about joy! Why, to sit round a camp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching to your mates,
each of you smoking one of my Cigars, joy isn’t
in it! It’s just simply bliss!
As the yarns go round, the blue smoke
curling upwards in a fragrant cloud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering on your
lips—l tell you, you’ll spend some of the
happiest hours of your life.
fj
Letters are coming in to
me in shoals from all over
Australasia, praising up my
Cigars. Take one I've just
got as I write this, for in-
stance —it’s from a chap on a
cattle station up in Northern
Queensland. He writes:—
“Those DIADEMAS Cigars
of yours are just alright. I’ve
always smoked a pipe—but
no more. Not that I’ve given
up pipe-smoking altogether;
but when I want areal smoke
—something rich—l light up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment.’’
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
you may select.
Send for 100 of any of
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver promptly,
postage or carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoke 5 of 6 of them, and if they’re
not superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’ll return every penny of your money —no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked.
My Cigars are made from the very finest
mild, rich mellow Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
leaf. The Cigars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There sno “catch" about this offer—it’s just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne. He’ll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you 11 make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dark colors.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
gj
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours. |
Each Capsule bears the name
fjgf
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
, I/each post free IA
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
S TOREKEEPERS J, roBACCOAfISTS
SHOULD SCAD SOU OUR TRADE UST
The Chalmers has been
recommended to me.”
Day after day, both in Sydney and Melbourne, intending purchasers come to our showrooms to
see the Chalmers —men from the North of Queensland, men from Tasmania, men from all over
Australia.
We take this condition to mean that the Chalmers car has not only now made a good reputa-
tion in our country, but also that the Chalmers Company has succeeded in building cars that
appeal to the careful buyers here.
Out of the 40 cars we have sold since Christmas, 35 of them were Chalmers cars; out of
these 35 purchasers, 12 were experienced motorists —men who had previously owned cars. Again,
there were four repeat orders from Chalmers owners.
From Sydney to Narromine, 300 miles, at an average of 33 miles., per hour, and over 20 miles
to the gallon of fuel. From Warialda to Newcastle, 310 miles, in daylight. Seven thousand
miles in 10 weeks, and the front tyres still good. These records speak for themselves.
20-30 H.P. Touring Car
equipped with Five Lamps,
Generator, 880 x 120
Tyres,
£490
Both
Guaran-
teed
Two
Years.
35-40 H.P. Torpedo
with full equipment
and 920 x 120
tyres,
GET ONE.
£790
ART CATALOGUES ARE FREE.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
Agent for Chalmers and Thomas Cars and Empire Runabouts,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST„ SYDNEY.
'v'
UNDER VICE-REGAL
gfg
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Oastlereagh Streets.
Transformations frgm £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/-set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
ALCOCK’S
Billiard Tables
OS
£
&
r
> v)
THE business man finds recreation and respite
from the worries of the day in billiards. Then
friends meet and together enjoy the game that
calls forth skill, judgment and concentration.
On an Alcock table the balls run perfectly, the
angles are accurate and play beautifully, adding
materially to the enjoyment of the game.
In the hotel —in the club —in the home—
wherever men largely congregate, there an Alcock
Billiard Table is usually found.
These are the same tables on which George
Gray, the Australian champion, first became famous
for his record breaks.
The “ Bijou ” is a favorite home billiard table,
fitted with fast running cushions, superfine billiard
cloth, and faultlessly finished.
Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. PTY. LTD.,
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker
Buildings, Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.
gf
ƒg
PEBECO
does far more than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, economy
in dental expense and better health.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Bole Agent—
f
G. Arnold,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(Wholesale only).
gj
A
BRAHAM
COSTUME
FOR
WINTER.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
76 Market Street,
Sydney.
Next door to Farmer’s.
*y>Well of course
Anything wotth doing is
worth do'ng well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Loral Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co.. Manchester, Enge
is
wnmm
CUSTARD
ĵgj
fgj
The Word’s Daily Delicacy
From 1837 to 1911—.
OQk O 1 7
Birds
Custard
Crowns every meal with enjoyment
Children revel in it; you do
right to indulge their liking for
this creamy wholesome dainty,
with its rich stoie of nutriment
tsr Insist on BIRD’S Custard.
No substitute can be so pure or
so wholesome.


PAINS AFTER
EATING
WIND IN THE STOMACH—BILIOUS
ATTACKS—HEADACHES—LOSS OF
APPETITE—CONSTIPATION
ARC SIGNS
OF INDIGESTION.
Indigestion attacks your whole body,
for it poisons the well-springs of life,
and ruins your constitution. If you
suffer, much or little, take, the herbal
tonic, Mother Seigel’s Syrup. This
standard remedy tones up the stomach,
'liver and bowels, cleanses your system,
makes indigestion impossible, and
thus maintains your health & strength.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
MADE OF ROOTS, BARKS & LEAVES
Mr. J. Moynihan, Lillian Cottage,
I Newstead, Fortitude Valley Queens-
land, writes: —“I am pleased to say
that, with me, thanks to Mother
Seigel’s Syrun, good digestion has
always waited on good appetite.”
GIVES
GOOD DIGESTION
AND
GOOD HEALTH
A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY OF
ANTINEURASTHIN
The only known effective remedy for nervous
breakdown or exhaustion will be sent to any address
in Australia or New Zealand on receipt of 2d. in
stamps to cover cost of postage.
Antineurasthin is a
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD.
It cures by feeding the brain and nerve cells with
their natural food element, Lecithin, in an active
organic state, and is the only known means of ef-
fectively doing this. Its value is fully demonstrated
by its rapid and permanent effect upon the nervous
system and health generally; sound natural sleep,
improved digestion, power of application to work,
concentration of thought, and sound vigorous men-
tality.
The offer of a free trial supply will be withdrawn
after 31st July. Send full address with twopence
in stamps to cover postage, to the Wholesale Dis-
tributor for Australia and New Zealand, H. A. God-
dard, 96a Eagle Street, Brisbane; or 194 Vickery’s
Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney. [2.
ft. *
JL&w Points
Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne,
£REME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
i
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving- Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
GOLCRYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1
[2a
Ihe'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Oepturieb.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
in use sine* 1586.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aek your chemiit for its biitory-the book is free-or write
6> GREEN, 2XO. Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
established 1847
f
tst
1
Plasters
The World?s Greatest
External Remedy.
g
ĝj
gj
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs
Allcock's blasters act as a preventive
as well as a curative.
Prevent colds becoming deep seated
Rheumatism in Shoulder
Relieved by using Allcock’s Plasters
Athletes use them for
Stiffness or Soreness of muscles.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
For over 60 years it has been the standard remedy for
all aches and pains. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A BrandretKs Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England,
MEN’S WINTER FOOTWEAR.
A NEW
MODEL.
Price 19/6.
The Glace or Box Balmoral illustrated is the result of the
best shoe-making thought obtainable, applied to the best
mechanical process and worked out in as excellent
leather as the world’s tanneries afford.
Write for our Booklet,
“ SHOELIGHT.”
Y
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
SPALDING GOLD MEDAL
Are the most correctly modelled and highly-
finished clubs ever turned out by any manu-
facturer, and whether driver, brassie or iron,
each has been selected with the greatest care
from the playing clubs of the most celebrated
amateurs and professionals.
r Every head is cut from a clear block of
either Dogwood or Persimmon, and the irons
have all hand-forged heads, hammered op our
own forges at Putney Wharf, London. Every
shaft is specially selected from the finest sun-
dried,. split Hickory obtainable, and only
the most experienced workmen are engaged
to make up these clubs.
Prices: Drivers or Brassies, 10/6; Irons, 91-
All goods bearing the Spalding Trade
Mark are Guaranteed.
From all the better dealers, or
GOLF
CLUBS
gj
Model o—Driver0 —Driver or Brassie
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, of Australasia Ltd.
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Special Important Notice to Owners of Motor Cars.
We desire to intimate to all users of MOTOR-CAR RUBBER TYRES, that,
acting on behalf of one of the leading English Amalgamated Companies, who
require a considerable quantity of Old Car Covers and Tubes, we have been
instructed to make a Liberal Allowance for all kinds of USED MOTOR-CAR
COVERS and TUBES.
Our principals, owing to certain prior arrangements, have instructed us for the
present to confine this privilege to purchasers of CONTINENTAL TYRES.
All CONTINENTAL TYRES will be supplied at Current List Rates, and
.coupled with reduction in force from 26th June. This consideration we can offer
now will show a considerable saving in your Tyre Bill.
Our instructions are to supply CONTINENTAL TYRES OR TUBES, and to
make Allowance for your OLD TYRES OF ANY MAKE. All Tyres supplied are
guaranteed by BENNETT AND WOOD, LTD., as New Stock, and carry the usual
warranty and guarantee of the local Continental Tyre Co.
UOUNTRY MOTORISTS. Our Local Depots and Traders throughout
N.S.W. have been instructed to offer same facilities to Country Motorists. If send-
ing direct to us Prepay Freight on Old Tyres.
EVERYTHING FOR THE MOTOR.
All Makes of Tyres at List Prices.
BENNETT 8 WOOD, LTD.,
Corner Pitt 8 Bathurst
Streets, SYDNEY.
r AUTTI ABTIMF THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
cs
SUCCESSFUL CAFILLARINE.
THE record of CAPILLARINE’S success in producing- permanent moustaches
is an unbeatable one. Hundreds of men have used it with splendid results,
for it NEVER fails. Start using it now—the result will more than please you.
Price 10/6 a jar. posted free to any Address in the World.
The O. &A. Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache. Worn
at night. No. 1, 2/6 ; No. 2, 3/6; No. 3, 5/6. Post free.
JABORINE FOR THE HAIR.
Makes it grow and keeps it soft and clean,
and renders washing the hair almost
unnecessary. Price 2/6; posted, 3/-
CRAIG & AITKEN
454 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
j
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accomvany.
\ P.Z.X.: There is no Earl of Douglas.
There is a Baron Douglas, who is also Earl of
Home; he is 77—if he hasn’t died since the
1911 “Peerage” was issued Poor Farmer:
Agree with you that the farmer who votes
Protection and then votes against the Com-
monwealth having power to regulate and control
machinery, manure and other Trusts and combines, is
an ass. But he would be just as much an ass if he
knocked off voting Protection. In the first place he
would lose the prospects of a big local market; in
the second, he would be just about as liable to be
fleeced by foreign Trusts and combines... .A.G.W.:
As pointless as a gallon of water.... Bardie: Why
i not try it on some music-hall songster ? Not suitable
for Bulletin, ~ .T.8.R.: No, thanks; off our beat.
| ....Jack Run-’ot: Needs a stronger hand....Ky-
nock: George Robertson’s will send you a list on ap-
plication .... Doubtful: That contributor in his spare
time is a N.S.W. school inspector.... Saladin: A
good deal of merit in it; and had it been a trifle less
crude it would have got in.'. . . R.G.H.: Thanks; but
the yarn has been wandering around the music-halls
for some time. .. .Doolt’s Pals: Verse, unsuitable. No
name or address for return of MS. and enclosure....
L.G.F.: None suitable. .. .John 11.: No use for re-
prints about the ladies of Crewe or any other Eng-
lish village....G.J. (V.): A graceful batch. One or
two of them may do. .. ,G.R.11.: The refrain kills it.
....Prem: The violet is wilted; the iriolet lads
gracefully; the scream is too hoarse. Deepest sj m-
pathy....Bert S.: Two blanks. .. .Will R. (Q.;:
Aboliar verse too full of splinters.... Norseman:
Verse moderately clumsy... .Berk (V.): “Cloud” is
overdone.... Bellerive: Autobiography this time:—
I procure no subjects from Biographs;
’Tis full three years ago
Since last I mingled with the throng
At a popular picture show ;
Having no regular place to call my Home
I’ve suffered trials and wandered far,
And in a roughish sort of way 1 write
On things just as they are.
A verse or two on the city slums,
A song on rough F ootbali,
Murders, robbery and suicide,
Jim Jams and Drunken Brawl;
I never endeavor to copy the style
Of some famous literary star;
I simply endeavor to pen my lines
On things just as they are.
.... A.W.W,: Idea is old and slight, and bandied
feebly. Try to pick on a new idea. Then leap
straight at it like a new 14-stone policeman, and try
to lock it up in as few words as possible. . . .M.L.
(V.) : Trio not up to print level. Descriptive verse
needs a skilful pen. Some promise. Try again....
Loehiel: What is it worth to us? About one dis-
honored cheque H.T. (M.L.) : Afraid not
Metua: The chief trouble is that you have no yarn
to spin. Entombed. .. .Thos. R. (Tas.) : No, no, no!
....Exile: Unsuitable. .. .W.C. A.: One verse:—
But though the tilt and the tournament’s gone
And long since crossed “the borne” :
“Man’s inhumanit3' to man makes
Countless thousands mourn.”
The patch looks a bit large on a four-line stanza. . . .
Tura : “Her Eyes” have closed...-Wattle B.: Jingle,
jingle, little bard! G.M.E.: The liars and gossips
won’t see it.... Arthur II.: A slice of your tribute
to the capital of the Ma State: —
As you steam along the coast,
And seasick lie in your bunk,
Through the porthole see the boast
Of Sydney side. My heart sunk
When I thought of them I left
But of beauty not bereft
I saw the beauteous cliffs. Low
But wondrously colored so.
God is a mighty painter
Sea, foam and cliff and blue sky
Who denies scarce attain where
The Immortals live on high.
J.L.M.: Regret unsuitable H.G. (N.S.W.) :
What is this you say ? :
In the plutocratic isle
They have lately crowned a king
With ail due solemnity
Are you certain? May print the rest of the poem if
the rumor is confirmed.... Grafter (M.L.) : No use.
... .Pilot, T.: Remarkably sad and dull story, We
have had to listen to many like it, but, thank
Heaven, we will never read one to the bitter and
fatuous end... .T.P.S. (M.L.) : Football sketch not
up. Glad to consider pars.... Chrysan: Very well
then: —
BY THE RIVER.
I waited for you in the twilight
When the birds were going to rest,
And the willow trees trailed in the river
Colored red by the down-setting sun in the golden
West.
Allow us:—
The night, weary reader, was coming and the world
was being gradually enveloped in gloom.
You have noticed, I daresay, that I am no slave of
metre; but I have always contended that, in order
to make himself understood, a writer should
allow himself plenty of room.
Shilling Links: You haven’t much to say, but
you say it fairly well.
“ Orient ”: How narrow shrinks the
world! Letters can now be sent to Lhasa,
in Tibet; and wireless telegraphy is being
established there!
Among municipal councils, Southern Cross
(W.A.), where the Bullfinches come from,
owns perhaps the wildest joke in the Com-
monwealth. It handles £5OOO of ratepayers’
money annually ; apparently it hasn’t issued
a balance-sheet for 12 years; and nobody
seems to know how the lighting, water, anil
other branches of the municipal business
stand. It has a finance committee which
never meets, nor examines an. account; and
there has been no stock-taking for about
13 years. A recent Mayor, Mclntyre, tried
to put the council’s business on a business
basis, but nobody w'ould help him. It was
“Leave it to Mac,” or “His Worship Mac
can fix that,” or “Go on. Mac!” But “Mac
got tired of being the locomotive and horse
and camel and driver and fireman, and he
has disgustedly resigned.
In case a further attempt should be made
to close up the canteens in the military bar-
racks, it might be as well for Federal legis-
lators to paste in their hats the experience
of the U.S. army in the Philippines:—
Another fertile cause of sickness is the abolition
of the regimental canteens, which resulted from the
agitation of some society of female busybodies, per-
suading the President that the only way of catch-
ing the vote of the teetotal fanatics was to stop the
soldiers from buying alcohol under State supervision.
In the canteen the soldier had been able to buy pure
beer and spirits, and he had been prohibited from
going elsewhere for alcohol; when the canteens were
abolished, it became impossible to keep him out of
the native grog-shops, where the most vile decoctions
were sold. As a result of “temperance” (!), crime
in the service was more than doubled, while the
death-rate went up in almost the same degree.
This plain tale is from “The Diary of a Sol-
diey pf Fortune,” by S. P. Hyatt.


s*^
30*
a*
%
*1
-L
Si
iill (ft
"»//
W«
£47,
“W'
fezZ
THE greatest improvement in piano construction during the past 40 years was brought about by our invention of
a simple, but thoroughly efficient steel tuning system, in place of the wooden system still used in foreign pianos.
This invention is patented throughout the world, and is obtainable only in Beale High-Grade Pianos. Its
success is beyond question, as any one of 15,000 buyers of Beale Pianos can tell you. We have used it for the past
nine years in all our pianos, and from the first day that a Beale Piano was issued with the Beale-Vader Patent Steel
Tuning System, right up to the present day, we have never had one single complaint in connection with the tuning system.
This record is unique in the history of piano manufacture, for the tuning system has hitherto always been the weakest
part of pianos. The necessity for a steel tuning system is pointed out by Mr. Edgar Brinsmead, of Messrs. John
Brinsmead and Sons,London, makers of the Brinsmead Pianos, who says in his book (“The History of the Pianoforte”)
that the driving of iron pegs into a wooden plank is “a primitive plan” which “neither secures nor retains accuracy”;
and he says the wood “ occasionally ” splits, “ frequently ” loses its holding power, and is “ invariably ” affected by climatic
changes. Yet that “primitive” system is still used by foreign piano makers. Herr Julius Bluthner, of Leipsic, maker
of Bluthner Pianos, publishes methods whereby “the risk of splitting and warping” with the wooden tuning system
may be “ reduced ” —but not abolished. The British and Colonial Piano Journal says (March, 1911, page 75) that the
“fault ” of pianos with the wooden tuning system “ not staying in tune” is “recognised by piano manufacturers all
over the world.”
Hundreds of inventions of metal tuning systems have been patented, but the Beale-Vader system is the only
thoroughly simple and efficient one, overcoming all the difficulties referred to, and other difficulties which we have not
here mentioned. And in addition, the Beale-Vader Patent Steel Tuning system secures a greatly improved quality of tone ,
so free from all harsh and metallic qualities, and so mellow and so musical that among singers especially our pianos
are particularly admired for their unequalled suitability for accompanying the human voice.
If you are thinking of buying a piano, you should let us explain the wonderful simplicity and efficiency of the
Beale-Vader Patent Steel Tuning System; and let us show you, or send you, the written opinions of our competitors as to
the necessity for a steel tuning system.
Do this, for it may save you a large sum of money.
AL
o
O
Tyr
ini-vyj
T ©
cp
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Offices also at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay
and Townsville, Q. ; Kalgoorlie, W.A. cash or easy terms, write for catalogue. 25 years’ guarantee.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
TKe utmost Care in tl\e Smallest Details. Save Middlemen’s Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


ITCHING WAS
MITEBLE
Felt, as if He Could Tear Leg Off.
Could Not Sleep. Would Wake
Up and Find Knee Covered with
Blood from Awful Scratching.
All Sorts of Ointments Failed.
CuticuraOintmentCured Completely.
“I have been affected on my knee for about
two years with what the doctor called eczema,
gjg
caused by varicose veins.
I suffered most when I got
warm in bed. Then the
itching was something ter-
rible. I felt as if I could
tear my leg off, and I could
not sleep. Often I would
wake up and find my knee
covered with blood through
my awful scratching. I
tried all sorts of ointments
such as ,
and an ointment from my
doctor, but it was all of
no use. They did no good
and I used to be ashamed of myself When I
would take my tilings off to play football.
My mates used to look at me itching and
scratching and you can think how I felt.
“Finally I tried a little Cuticura Ointment
which made such an improvement that 1 got
a box of it which cured my trouble completely.
I am a member of the Club, and I
recommend the Cuticura Remedies to all the
clubs I play against for all skin troubles.’’
(Signed) L. Mufray, 24, Buxton St.. Pendleton,
nr. Manchester, Lancs., Eng., May 21, 1910.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment afford the
most economical treatment known for affec-
tions of the skin and scalp. A single tablet
of Cuticura Soap and box of Cuticura Oint-
ment are often sufficient. Sold throughout
the world. Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.. for a liberal trial package of Cuticura
Ointment and a 32-page book on the treat-
ment of skin troubles. Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
5>
Her Youth
\i
:LENJ
, (U.S.AJ
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
sen
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Featlier Siiop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
Pr. E. <S. LEfSERERSON
formerly hon. physician Auckland and Broken Hill
general hospitals.
Also of Collins Street, Melbourne ; Macquarie Street,
Sydney ; and Hay Street, Perth,
Has Resumed Practice at 30 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Consultation Hours —
11.30 to 12.30, 6.45 to 7.45 p.m.
Tel. 453.
SPECIALTY 606.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
I '"4CTURINC>
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
ftiiu Ox-blood.
WOLSEY
FOR UNDERWEAR VALUE
Wolsey has become the most widely-selling Underwear
in the. world, simply because it offers such Value as is
unobtamable elsewhere. No matter what Wolsey Garment you
buy, or where you buy it, it will fit, and wash, and wear in
a way which will make you thoroughly glad you chose it.
‘Wolsey’ means freedom Jrom chills, better comfort, economy, and satisfaction.
GUARANTEED
ALL PURE WOOL
The Wolsey material is clean,
new wool, soft, elastic, protect-
ive ; no cotton or mixtures.
WOLSEY
REPLACED FREE
IF IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Underwear is guaran-
teed unshrinkable,and replaced
free should it prove otherwise.
Wolsey Underwear is made in many garments for men, women, and children,
and is the finest value for all. When buying be sure to see the Wolsey mark.
Wolsey Pure Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is obtainable from any retailer.
COLD
TRADERS
MARK
Colds and chills
require prompt treatment.
Freeman’s—the Original—■ Chlorodyne, taken at the first^
' symptom, quickly cures, and prevents more serious complications.
Freeman’s is also excellent in Asthma, Bronchitis, Neuralgia,and Dysentry.
Highly recommended and used by Doctors for sixty - five years.
See ‘ELEPHANT’ on every bottle, your safeguard against imitations
If your Chemist
is out of stock,
i order a bottle
I he can quickly
get it
1/14,2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
FREEMAN’S
CHLORODYNE
o.* a. 8004
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
LATFST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELtS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
ftMSAMOFjfr.
%
‘‘Sade m ******
and Chemists . A
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
#
I
Food
FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible particles. “The Lancet” describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Ifienger's Food is sold in lins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
822
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Kaylee”: “Jimbv’s” Mulga Bill, who signed a
guarantee for his own watch purchased from a Brum-
magem jewellery “joint” (B. 11/5/’ll), only
scraped against one square-inch of the hide necessary
for success in that and similar forms of robbery.
I saw Brum, selling packets of stationery, price 25.,
each packet containing a small present, and three in
every dozen allegedly containing a watch. He spread
12 packets before the whiskered crowd, and nine
were bought up. Before Brum, had time to add tv
and shuffle the packets, Mulga Bill, noting that none
of the nine contained a ticker, made a swift mental
calculation, and decided that the watches must be
iri the remaining three packets. He produced 65.,
and asked for them. “Ah, now, sir,” said Brum.,
“this is where the Law steps in. You are on a sure
thing. The Law allows me to sell you one or two,
or any number up to nine, but I cannot sell you the
remaining three. If I did I should come under the
Lottery and Gaming Act of 1897 !” It went down
with Mulga Bill. Most things go down with Bill.
* * > *
“Walkabout”: Black Brother improvident! No,
no! Saw a gin on the Ashburton (W.A.) nursing
a very skinny baby about six weeeks old, and suck-
ling a very fat puppy about the same age. Asked
the reason, the gin explained that she wanted to rear
the pup because “him good pfeller kangaroo dog byme-
by.” So the baby had what milk the pup couldn’t
drink, and by the look of it that wasn’t much. Just-
before I left there was a kangaroo pup less, and a
black baby with a chance of getting a good skin-full
for perhaps the first time in its life. I suppose,
though, I’d driven capital out of the country:—the
nigger’s capital, anyway.
“Condamine”: G. Marks, instructor in agriculture
at the Hawkesbury (N.S.YV.) College, in a recent
bulletin distributed throughout the State, alleges
that dishonest practices in placing locally-grown
millet on the home and export market have been
mentioned to the Commonwealth authorities with a
view to bringing broom-millet under the provisions
of the Commerce Act. He says: “Many manufac-
turers prefer to leave the local product alone, arid
import their supplies, finding it cheaper to purchase
Italian millet at £4O per ton than use local material
at £20.” The dishonest practices consist in stuffing
the bales with stems and leaves, useless brush, bag-
ging, scrap-iron, floor-sweepings, unripe seed and
other rubbish. Now, if the charge of fraud is true,
what does the Labor Government propose to do about
it; and, if it isn’t true, what does it propose to do
about Marks? There appears to be a great oppor-
tunity to do something to somebody.
* * * *
Those Australians who love B. Smith’s Asiatic
friends and patronise their gimcrack productions
may have an anxious feeling for their household
gods if they light on Part V. of French’s “Hand-
book of the Destructive Insects of Victoria.” Therein
the Government Entomologist of the Weary State
remarks of the fig-tree borer: “Numerous cases of
beetles attacking valuable furniture and house tim-
bers have come under notice. In each instance the
trouble has been traced to Japanese and Chinese ver-
andah blinds or to bamboo furniture from the East”;
and he goes on to recommend that fumigation with
cyanide be insisted on before the' pestiferous goods
are removed from the ship’s side.
“Quidam”: A good example of what Australian
industry can do is given by the 5-h.p. gasoline en-
gines turned out by a foundry at Stawell (Vic.).
These engines are on the lines of well-known two-
cycle American gasoline engines, but are fired by a
magneto, a big improvement on the Yankee dry-cell
method. Also, instead of a plunger-pump for cooling
purposes, with its troubles, they are fitted with a
neat and practically everlasting centrifugal pump,
and the whole outfit is attached to a substantial
cast-iron bed. The engine is far more suitable for
farming and other industrial purposes than most of
the imported machines, and its good features are
finding recognition among the farmers of the
Wimmera. The enormous use the small, quickly-
started naphtha engine is put to in the U.S.A., where
it is applied to everything, from circular-saws to
electric dynamos, is slowly beginning to enter the
Australian farmer’s head, and the Australian manu-
facturer’s lack of enterprise in neglecting to take up
the business of making small engines and showing
the public what can be done with them, is regrettable
from many standpoints.. A good many engine-
makers in Victoria, who ought to know better, per-
sist in believing that the large, cumbersome oil en-
gine is suitable for everything, from driving a little
pump or a big 10-ton cyanide plant to propelling an
aeroplane. Some day they will find themselves in a
cold place.
“M. Sidney”: It was the dining-room of a bush
pub, and the man tendered a cheque to pay for his
dinner. After the Missus had handed "over the
change, less Is. for dinner and 6d. exchange, the
customer remarked, as if in doubt: “I don’t know
if that cheque is any good to you; it’s crossed.
Better take this shilling.” “Oh, all right,” replied
the landlady. She thereupon returned the cheque
and he the change, plus Is. 6d. The man waited for
a while, and then said to the waitress: “Miss, do you
mind telling the Missus she owes me a shilling that
she stopped for dinner, and sixpence for exchange.”
The Missus returned with the eighteen pence and
apologies. “All right, Missus,” he said, picking up
the bob, “I’ll have a drink.” And he went away
with a dinner and a drink to the good, and T sat
and wondered how it was done.
THE MODERN FIRST OFFENDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A “first offender,” according to the present inter-
pretation of the Act (in Victoria, at any rate), is
in most cases a young person who has committed
two or three, or five or six, punishable offences before
being given into custody. The crime is not in the
getting found out, as cynics used to say, but in the
getting charged before a Court with being found out.
And then it isn’t a crime unless the frequent offender
ha« been previously prosecuted.
Nice young man embezzled once,
Boss was kindly hearted ;
Clerkling, viewing thefts as “bunce,”
Jauntily departed.
Embezzles twice,
But still he’s “nice” ;
His new boss, too, is tender;
Next boss is as cold as ice,
In his methods most precise;
Lands the young man, sweet and nice,
As a f irst Offender.
Rogue escapes with “good advice” —
He’s a First Offender.
Fair shoplifter makes mistakes
Many times and often ;
Oft detected, sobs and shakes;
Shopmen quickly soften.
With bulging bag
She strikes a snag,
And then, despite her gender,
P’liceman takes her off to gaol
With her spoils from bargain sale ;
Prosecutor tells his tale—-
She’s a First Offender.
Poor young lady, fair but frail—
She’s a First Offender.
Percy now is not a thief,
As thieves were once depicted,
Till at last he comes to grief
By getting twice convicted.
In former time
A sinner’s “crime”
To bad luck was imputed;
Crime was in the getting caught;
But now detection goes for naught
Unless the party has been brought
To Court and twice convicted;
His frauds are not with danger fraught
Till twice he’s been convicted.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE"—
Famous Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising- Device for ALL PETROL
ENGINES —either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to (jet more HORSE-
POWER fi-mi vour Engrine or n GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
FOR SORE BACKS
and Shoulders, Girthgalls, etc., there is
nothing quite so good as
Solomon
Solution
targe Jars 5/- Everywhere. Post Free 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
ft
MORRSSTB
Witches
oiAtinii
10
for
F3W*
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMOMS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
TROUCNGtt
r DIURETIC
KMEY&BMM
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
(JR! NARY
ORGANS
06
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TO/NIC
Ob f&tn&bfe Chprn /5
J i CLARTON,HODGSON & C® I,?? SI
so!e Aus/ra/zs/*> YORK STSYDNEY
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
. PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From () months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen & H anburys Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney
iSllenburgs Foods
THIS BOOK IS FREE.
Would you possess that strange, mysterious power that charms and fascinates men and women, shapes their thoughts,
controls their desires and makes you supreme master of every situation.
Life is full of alluring possibilities for those who master the secrets of magnetic influence —for those who develop
their magnetic powers.
You can learn at home to cure disease and bad habits without drugs, win the friendship and love of others, increase
your income, gratify your ambitions, dispel worry and trouble from your mind, improve your memory, banish domestic unhappi-
ness, and develop a wonderful magnetic will-power that will enable you to overcome all obstacles to your success.
ĝj
gj
gj
g
ĝj
You can influence people instantaneously—quick as a flash ; put your-
self or anyone else to sleep at any hour of the day or night; banish pain and
suffering. Our free book explains exactly how you can master this power and
use it to better your condition in life. It is endorsed by ministers of the
gospel, lawyers, doctors, business men and society women. It benefits every-
body; it costs nothing. We give it away to advertise this institution.
Write for it to-day on a Penny Post Card.
New York Institute of Science, Dept. 22L,
Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
n
Aa9
Choose the best when buying
Sochs, Stockings, and Under-
we
ar —
Buy
If
With » you have
unshrinkable, are all-
England.
the guarantee that they are
Australasian-wool, and made in
you have more than this.
The finish is distinctive—it cannot be imitated. It im-
parts that soft silky feeling which is so comfortable in wear.
"guon:
Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapes, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock
* he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “Jason" booklet and name of nearest
Agent to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
<S>
Congo Roofing is a tough,
pliable water-proof felt. It
can be laid by unskilled la-
bor. and will give ten years
of faultless service.
That “ten years” is ab-
solutely guaranteed by a
free Surety Bond issued with
every roll by the Royal
Exchange Assurance of
London.
Further details on request.
Congo Damp Course is a
tough felt somewhat similar
to Congo Roofing, which is
immune from deterioration
by dampness or acids. It is
used for lining the exterior
foundations of buildings to
exclude dampness and ver-
min. It is made in various
widths and is easily applied.
It is the most economical
kind of underground water-
proofing.
AGENTS Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney ; Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd., Melbourne ; Brabant & Co.,
Brisbane ; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton ; Harrold Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri
& Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ; William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobart, Tasmania.
ICILMA
Dry SHAMPOO
POWDER.
3d.
tIK
PACKET.
TWO SHAMPOOS FOR THREEPENCE.
LADIES !
"When your hair gets dirty and greasy,
And the winds are cold and breezy,
There's a SHAMPOO DRY
That you should try
Called “ICILMA " —it's efficient and easy.
NO
WATER
AT ALL
NEEDED
USE
DRY
All Chemists and Storekeepers, or post free from
ICILMA DEPOT, 139 yorkstreet, Sydney.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
m
a cn
-W*
>***“-
SirT
FIDELITAS
• (l \ *T .-' '
9fi>
s**
**s
n
tost:*'
m
5t*s
F.WOLFF&SOHN
■Karlsruhe
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all lead in? establishments
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results Use Best
« PERNIX” CARBIDE..
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it
can be obatined from
AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” — Trade Mark of Kay's
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS.
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.'
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mri.ho'tunk Aornth : .IOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adklaidk & Frrmanti.k Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE', ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Pdack, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Comer of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: .1 P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of new Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain-
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interpst for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITA!; - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
Chough,): Sly, Esq., l/U.D. ; Ciias. 11. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yaravood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C umnonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The .
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. ... .. .. 413,494 810
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) ... .. .. 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £519,237 ,Q 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Func| (invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. - ,
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial [flutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident and Sickness Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitable distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hoi. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord Oeutscher L/loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt. Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne :
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
gj
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 2.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
August 30.
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARRS —Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 S 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE deceived Otilv on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
t New Steamer.
FARRS— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ~ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-olass each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c.. on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
OEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit- them ? ”
describing many delightful Island trips from
£lO upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
g
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fa\orabl& terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds or Certificated C.P’s.
and Associated O.L’s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Fall particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post
Crown Land< Agents and at the Head Office, MOOItE STREET, SYDNEY.
Office A<rency, or front
J. 11. Davif.s. Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Mr
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
HI RECTORS:
ĝ
£2,913,820
£1,950,000
£2,913,820
£7,777,640
The lion. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The lion. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred Geor<re Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office— 64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 330 branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 135, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Tasmania, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan,
and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT.! Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney y Limited.
Capita' l’aid-up ... ... £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kate'r, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massif..
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
* Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tilky, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Hangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
‘ COAGULINE,’ * KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE’
—Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc. ,
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The trustees, executors
AXD
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITA!, rAII)-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £40,000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon J. M. Pratt ; J. 11.
MacFarland, Eso., M.A., LU.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Qusonsland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT P[RTE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana. August 1
(To Fremantle direct,
thence to all North-
west Ports, without
transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Olirns.
5.5. Marloo, July 22.
5.5. tala, July 2!) (fitted
Wireless Telejrrapliv).
5.5. Wollowra, Any. 5.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
fiwt Port- «? B o a n e ke A S are inter °haii!real)le after the
orr ' o/ call with other mter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company's Office
G. S. VUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.— H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET,”
11,400 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 20th July
„ „ „ SYDNEY „ Ist Aug.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ sth Aug.
„ „ „ ADELAIDE „ Bth Aug.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised o(
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied witli fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES.. .. £49 10s. £13135. £15155. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
11. JONES & GO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON I England.
of Parliament.
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK WORTH, Manager.
SI JACOBS
OIL
Cures
RHEUMATISM
and Bodily Aches and Pains.
I Of all Chemists and Stores


CAIRNS.
The Great Winter Pleasure
Trip to Sunny Queensland
V*
A
: ■
h ft
'M*
mr
7W >*•
■ %
«■• A!
. '- ** ..-
SEEN
THROUGH
A CAIRNS
TUNNEL.
CAIRNS
is picturesquely situated, has a healthy
climate, and the temperature in winter
seldom falls below 50°. First-class
hotel accommodation at Cairns and
Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be
obtained at a reasonable tariff, and the
fishing at Cairns is excellent. A trip
to the Barron Falls and
scenery about that part of N orth
Queensland should not be missed.
For Fares and all Particulars
.. . apply to ...
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD
by Modern
Inter-State
Steamships.
SMOOTH WATER
SPRING-LIKE CLIMATE
Up-to-Date and Comfortable
Steamships.
mm
■■■
m
m
m
rft i
BARRON GORGE.
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows: —
the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs between the
Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest of the sea trips of Aus-
tralasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands, covered with foliage strange to
southern eyes, and the boat is ever rounding headlands, streaming into fine bays and estuaries. The
famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.”
V
sr
m
r j
■
ass
ST:
■^a
y
assts
m
m
m
/ i
■
Hi
Hi
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
and ail porhs in each
AUSTRALIAN STATE
S. C 9 LTP A.U.S.N.C9 LIMITED
:thc°l t ? huddart parker & c? pitlt d
MOTH, M°EACHARN AC° P TY L TO
'
HOW
- ■
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO. LTD.
AUSTRALASIAN UNITED STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD


For Colds
and Coughs
13 Stanley Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —For colds and coughs Angier’s Emulsion is the best remedy
that I have ever tried. I am subject to colds on the slightest change in the
weather, which causes me great annoyance. As a representative of the
Buyers’ and Sellers’ Directory of Australia, I am compelled to travel
constantly from one State to another, and it is a great boon to me to have
a rerhedy such as Angier's Emulsion. One thing I find about it is that,
unlike most emulsions, it does not repeat or make one feel sick, which is
greatly in its favour.
(Signed) W. E. MASTERS.
ANGIER#MULSION
5®
1/3,
Angier's Emulsion is a simple healing tonic that is soothing alike to throat, lungs,
stomach and intestines, an aid to appetite and digestion and an invigorating tonic and
restorative. By its soothing, healing action it relieves the cough, allays soreness and in-
flammation and promotes easy expectoration, while by its tonic properties it increases
vitality and enables the system to quickly throw off a cold and to resist further attacks.
Angier's Emulsion is unequalled for colds, coughs, bronchitis, asthma and all lung
“ A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage; mention this paper.
THH ANGIEft CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
ğj
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
Tfcc “Maitland" Business Shirt
51-
each
or
28 16
per half
dozen.
With the Comfortable Soft Front and
Dressed Cuffs.
NEAT STRIPE and CHECK EFFECTS.
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE and TOOWOOMBA.
IN BANANA LAND
James Stodart succeeds W. D. Armstrong,
now Speaker, as Chairman of Committees in
the Assembly. He sits for Logan, which
has more Wilhelms and Gretcliens than any
other electorate in Bananaland.
Pinkenba, the port of Brisbane, is one of
the divisions of Toombul Shire. The local
council re-named the divisions recently, and
called Pinkenba Port Brisbane. That, how-
ever, won’t stop most Brisbane people from
calling it by the name it’s best known by—
Stinkenba.
Although Bananaland has been settled
only about three-quarters of a century, the
native-born Queenslander has, in one case,
at least, reached the fourth generation. Mrs.
James Chappie was born at Gatton; her
daughter, Mrs. G. S. Flay, at Ipswich ; her
daughter, Mrs. A. B. Whiting, at Gympie;
and baby Whiting at Brisbane.
Two leading Queensland country papers,
the Toowoomba Chronicle and the Rock-
hampton Bulletin, were 50 years old this
month (July), the Chronicle on the 4th,
and the Bulletin on the 9th. The former
was established by Darius Hunt, and the
latter by W. H.‘ Buzacott.
Bananaland has so many Russian settlers
now that it is proposed to start a Russian
paper in Brisbane; and a committee has
been appointed to devise ways and means of
running it. The Bulletin isn’t going to
throw any bricks at the unborn baby; all
the same, it hopes that, if the infant isn’t
stillborn, it will grow up and tell its Rus-
sian readers that their job now is to be
Australians.
The sour Sabbatarian doesn’t get much
encouragement in back-block Bananaland.
Sunday football matches were recently ar-
ranged between Gladstone and Many Peaks,
Whereupon the mayor of the former town
was persuaded to convene a public meeting
to protest against the park being used for
the shattering of the Sabbath. The meet-
ing was held all right; but, instead of pro-
testing, it “outed” the idea of a gloomy Sun-
day by 150 votes to 25.
The notorious C.S.R. “agreement,” binding
the employee for seven months to the octo-
pus, and giving the octopus full power to
send him off at an angry moment’s notice,
met its Waterloo at Childers. A police
magistrate, quoting the Chief Justice in sup-
port, declared such an “agreement” bogus,
and invalid, and ultra vires, and other
things. The shocked co. has appealed. In
Northern N.S.W. the magistrates long ago
got into the habit of treating the agreement
under review as something sacred, and con-
victions followed automatically on accusa-
tion. Unorganised labor on the Clarence,
Richmond and Tweed never had the finan-
cial strength to appeal; it simply grinned
and bore the injustice. But even a bloated
co. can’t nibble for ever without getting a
bite, and unless the Supreme Court of
Queensland comes to the rescue it should
land a few more snags before the present
sugar season concludes its woeful way.
To the credit of the up-country paper it
must be said that when it rises to meet the
occasion, it succeeds as often as not. Thus
observe the Warrego (N.S.W.) Watchman
from its tower of observation; —
Visitors to Thompson’s Tattersall’s Hotel during
the Race Carnival were numerous, so much so that
all rooms were utilised, until no more were available.
Mahy had to be refused accommodation, as they
were full up.
Well, what do you expect during race week?
The R.C. Archbishop of Brisbane is in
the eighties, and a coadjutor is to be ap-
pointed with the right of succession. So
far the three favorites for the job are
Bishop O’Connor, of Armidale; Bishop
Duhig, of Rockhampton; and Father M. J.
O’Reilly, C.M., of St. Stanislaus College,
Bathurst. Archbishop Delaney, of Hobart,
may possibly come in; but the chances are
that he would rather go on ruling in his own
small island.
TWICE SHY.
TRAGEDIAN : “Good morning, landlord. What are your special terms for actors ?”
LANDLORD : “Blanky thieves and vagabonds !”
“Flinderino,” from the North: —
The tide plays some low-down tricks on the small
steamers that dodge about the numerous creeks and
rivers between Townsville and Cairns. It often hap-
pens that a mariner, pushed for time, attempts to
navigate a shallow stream on a falling tide. If he
is lucky he’ll skid over the mud-banks all right; but
should the tide race him out, his craft will be left
stranded. The delay may be only a few hours, until
the next tide. But occasionally a vessel takes the
mud on a falling tide, when the tides are taking
off, and in that case the steamer is hung up for pro-
bably eight or 10 days, until the next spring tides.
When the loading is log-timber or raw sugar the
delay is not so serious, but to be aboard when the
cifygo consists of bananas, not too green, in a mos-
quito-infested creek, is an experience you won’t want
twice. Sometimes it is possible to kill time by
pulling away in the dinghy to a deep hole, where
you may have some fishing—if the mosquitoes and
sandflies let you. Or, if there is a rifle and ammuni-
tion aboard, a crocodile hunt may relieve the mono-
tony; or, again, if there are no crocs., there may be
some sport in shooting at crabs and johnnie jumpers.
(Jackjumper is that queer little lung-fish which can
walk ashore and climb mangrove trees.) But the
stranded crew mostly spends its whole time devising
ways and means of dodging the mosquito and the
sandfly.
A Song of the Oft-Born.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I knew when he came to the house where I dwelt,
And knocked at my lowly door,
That far away back 1 hail known him, and felt
The weight of his presence before.
1 knew he had called in the dawning of days
To catch me before I should roam,
And always the message he met with amaze
Was “Stonybroke isn’t at home!”
His ferrety eves and his snuffety sniff,
His tale of a bill that was due,
They come o’er my soul like a primeval whiff
Of days when the mammoth was new.
Ear back in the past, when the Earth was a child
That laughed in the face of the Sun,
A garrulous debtor, I sported and smiled,
And he was my merciless dun.
Ave, well do I know it, and well do I ken
He does but the thing that he must;
For so ’twas ordained when I lived in a den,
And fought for a bone in the dust.
And when in the future a turbulent sea
Sweeps over yon star-kissing hill,
A debtor eternal I’m destined to be
And he will be dunning me still.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 15, 1911.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
The Macgregors last Saturday went to
Toowoomba, where the chieftain well and
truly laid the foundation-stone of the Techni-
cal College ; but not before the shyness of a
pot-hat had almost laid the foundation of a
vice-regal tragedy. When the train reached
Toowoomba Wee Macgregor couldn’t find his
covering, search he high or low, and, as there
was nobody in the party with a spare
bell-topper, the situation became serious. A
brainless Governor is fairly common in Aus-
tralia, but a hatless one —impossible! Yet
what was to be done? It seemed useless to
ask the station-master for his, because sta-
tion-masters so infrequently wear tlieir chim-
ney-pots to work ; nor would a porter’s cap
go well with a frock-coat and spats. _ In
some places his Ex. could have tied his red
bandana round his head, but up in these
parts we’ve got a long way in advance of
Sydney and other aboriginal camps. A top-
hat had to be promptly obtained somewhere,
and, as there appeared no other way to get
it, the faithful Scarlett aide, per medium of
a law-breaking taxi, tore into town, dashed
into a hattery, threw down the piece of bor-
rowed string used for measurement, grabbed
the new topper, and fled back with it to
where the duel and the missus were secreted
in the fastnesses of a side-tracked railway
carriage. And George Y. wasn’t more re-
lieved when he got his new top-piece.
Mrs. Parnell, wife of our new Comman-
dant, appears to be not yet thoroughly at
home in Brisbane. Although she politely
hides it, I suspect her of having a vague fear
of attack by venomous savages or screeching
serpents. Of course, there is hardly any
need for it, because it is quite a long time
since the cannibals from the interior
swarmed over the city, though I do hear that
they are preparing for another raid about
carnival week.
The opening of Parliament was rather a
wearying performance. The Speech was
long, and was dribbled out in a voice that
didn’t splash beyond a three-foot radius.
Moreover, the Legislative Chamber is scarlet-
carpeted and similarly upholstered, and the
sight of cerise hats, amethyst gowns and
pink roses, thickly strewn everywhere, gave
one a touch of artistic dyspepsia. The
Vision, in a simple but quite delightful white
silk frock, and a black picture hat, was one
refreshing feature. And her furs! They
were white, and calculated to make us all
black with envy. Lady Mac.' was faithful to
her amethyst surroundings. This time they
were of ninon.
+b} Ve m h Y e been f ecalli pg the hospitality of
on? nv,' c t at . the Gritiith home, Merthyr.
-Lne Chief Justice’s wife returns south next
week, and, just to show us that her memory
is as good as ours, tea’d the elect on Thurs-
day.
The Assembly Ball was the event of the
week, but, as members only were permitted
to dance, many hostesses stayed away, and
there was an over-supply of Man, which is a
novelty not without its embarrassments. The
decorative scheme based its popularity on
pink and white climbing roses; and the "com-
petition for the most beautiful dress was
won by the Vision, in blue, and Miss Joyce
lullerton, in pale pink. At least, the
would have ended that way if there had been
one.
Departed this town on Wednesday, Mrs.
Marie Irvine, so well known to you as
“Mario.” She was invited to help roll a Syd-
ney daily newspaper’s chariot along, and, by
the time this gladdens your eye, will be push-
ing with all the weight of an energetic pen.
The Journalists’ Association fed her heartily
before she sailed, and she carried away a
burden of presents from the Daily Mail and
a cabin full of roses and violets. If all the
good wishes had been put aboard, the ship
would have sunk below the Plimsoll.
The engagement is announced of Miss
Emmie Dowell, of the Brisbane Telegraph
staff, to Mr. Firmin McKinnon, editor of the
Darling Downs Gazette, and sometime of
the Telegraph. The local Inky Way hopes
that the Machinery of Happiness will never
break down, and that Good Luck will be
their general manager.
Last English mail brines news that Mr.
and Mrs. Andrew Menzies had just returned
to their Edinburgh flat after Derby-ing.
Their immediate intention was to revisit
London, to see if George’s halo fitted him.
The Golf Club entertained its cousins,
aunts and other relatives recently in its
rooms, and did the thing well. Governor
Macgregor, who has a proper Scawtch ap-
preciation of the game, or whatever it is,
came early and stayed late. Curious wives
inspected the bar, and for a short while
wondered whether it was responsible for the
member whose hat bore the mystic legend,
“Ham!” Their suspicions were only removed
when it was explained to them that he was
“two down on bogey,” though, for myself,
not understanding the lingo of the links, I
wasn’t altogether satisfied even then.
Mrs. Forrester, wife of Surgeon Adrian
Forrester, of the Pyramus, left this week, to
join hubby in Sydney, and, before flitting,
hostessed a tea, when the smart little lady
was regretfully farewelled.
Another jolly little dance was given by the
rowing men last Tuesday, in the O’Connor
Shed. The club’s colors and myriads of
fairy lights and lanterns provided the de-
corations. There are less pleasant places
for a dance than a wide verandah overlooking
the river, and the Shed dances are deservedly
popular with the other fellow’s sister. Sec-:
rotary Weatherell seems to be suffering from
chronic satisfaction with the health of the
club’s finances.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
William Drayton Armstrong, Bananaland'»
new Speaker, is a son of Dr. Armstrong,
who nursed Toowoomba in its infancy.
W. D. was born at Drayton, where his father
practised when Drayton was the town, and
Toowoomba was The Swamp. The Speaker’s
mother is still living.
Among those at the recent digging up of
the first sod of the Gayndah-iuundubbera
railway line were John Connolly, who is 9b
years old, and has lived at Gayndah 60
years; George Stupart,. of Maryborough,
who saw Lady Bowen, wife of Bananaland’s
first Governor, dig up the first sod of Queens-
land’s first railway at Ipswich in the ’6o’s;
and Charles Rabaa, Mayor of Maryborough,
who 50 years ago was a shepherd on Degilbo
station in the Burnett district. (Gayndah is
on the Burnett.) At one time there were
over a million sheep in the Burnett district,
but spear-grass came in and the wool-grow-
ing business mostly went out.
A mixed tale of sin:—
Saul Ping Pong, Chinese parson, having retired
from the pilot industry, lately made his home in a
northern town, where he had various dealings with
Un Hung. On information received, Customs officers
one day followed a cart, which emptied itself into
Un’s humpy, and, after sticking their noses inside
the assorted stenches, found a considerable quantity
of opium. Un was angry, and signified something
in pigeon-English insinuating that he still held the
trump card. During the evidence at the police
court, and amid a wholesale conflagration of matches,
Un startled everybody by solemnly swearing that he
had bribed Sub-Collector Jones not to interfere with
his opium shipments, and, further, that Jones knew
all about this particular consignment. The prosecu-
tion elicited the fact that the “purchase” of the
Customs officer had been effected through one Saul
Ping Pong. After proofs of the transaction had been
submitted, the Sub-Collector admitted that it was the
same Ping Pong who had “informed,” after being pro-
mised a moiety of the fine in the event of the in-
formation being sound. Un, more angry than ever,
then prosecuted Ping Pong for obtaining money from
him under false pretences, or for breach of contract,
or something such. While collective J.P.-dom was
scratching its head and wondering whether they
could do anything to a man for breaking a contract
to do something criminal, Ping Pong got stabbed,
and Un Hung was immediately arrested for feloniously
wounding. Un knew that he didn’t stab Ping; but
as the case was black, and he knew that somebody
had stabbed Ping, he promptly purchased some local
brains to work up a defence. The brains got busy
and discovered things; but when they were on the
point of arresting Ping for feloniously wounding
himself, lo! Ping had absconded ! So it all panned
out this way: Un Hung lost some cash and gained
some experience; the Customs gained some opium,
cash and experience; and Ping Pong—well, rm.
Pong’s luck was dead out, and he probably decampea
to offer a lump of incense at the tomb of his an-
cestors.


IlilSi
,w,! {
mHSmu
<r
(>.
(r
H-i
H
1 C
' (
jm
m,.
_0 .
Oj?w_
£X
c
ur:
VN/ /M f
Born 1820—
Still Going
Strong.
o
O
O
>GOL.D
ERR
No opposition can lessen the popular hold of the whisky guaranteed
same quality throughout the world. This is not the empty “guarantee ”
of an irresponsible firm, but the warranty of a firm with ninety
years’ reputation; unbroken family management since 1820 ; and
the house maintaining the largest stock of pure Malt Scotch whisky in the
world to safeguard age and quality.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fgj
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBS’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & COLTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
5116
The
Great
Defender.
Hearne’s
Bronchitis
Cure.
imilllfflimilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
e-
iS e An
I
sS
n
<v
tIMOriES
i
L
7'
r
©
4.N
ASTHMA
COLDS
o^s
SOR
THROATS
m
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid
healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the che£t,
experience delightful and rapid relief, and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure.
It is most comforting in allaying Irritation in the Throat and giving
Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to
become chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is not
known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been
properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without
it, as taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
RAM
R:FE
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Hon.es,Farms, Dairies, Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
If there is a stream,
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction guaranteed. Over 7000 in use
injr or pond within a mile— Write for Free Plans and Book
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO.
New York.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
14
DINNEFORDS,
Magnesia.
gj
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
gj
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headach(
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
gjg
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
TO THE FARMER,
the FERRO ENGINE has
proven itself an inestimable
boon by relieving him of the hard work about the
farm, such as pumping water, chaff and ensilage
cutting, bagging and hoisting, corn grinding, husk-
ing and shelling, sawing wood, separating cream,
driving winnowers or any machine for which
moderate power Is required. Also on account of the
increased profit made by their use, which in many
cases has more than paid for the entire outfit before
the f rst season is over.
Drop a postcard to the nearest agent, giving par-
ticulars of machine or plant for which you require
power, and he will advise you of the most suitable
engine for the_purpose. YOU WILL REMEMBER
THEIR HONEST SERVICE LONG AFTER YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN THE SMALL COST.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, y/ 2 , ly 2 , 8,11,12,15,17, 25 B.H.P.
FERRO AGENTS:
Halt Bros., Drultt St, SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St,, DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moore, APIA, SAMOA.
j
> I Cal II
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/* post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL, PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN V CO., Pty. Ltd.. 276 8 Collins Bendigo, Geelong.
A POUCHFUL of
“NIMROD.”
—a pipe—a book—an easy chair and a plowing fire constitute an
ideal Winter’s evening entertainment. The more the window panes
rattle—the more you enjoy the aroma of your fragrant “ Nimrod.”
Fine (Wafer) and Medium Cut.
Jib., 2/-; posted, 2/3
1 lb., 7/6 ; posted, 8/3
I lb., 3/9; posted, 4/3
3 lb., 21/-; posted, 22/3
KISMET CIGARETTES, Virginian and Turkish
VIRGINIAN.
10 in a box, 9d.; posted, 10d.
25 in a box, 1/9; posted, 1/11
50 in a box, 3/6; posted, 3/10
103 in a box, 6/6 ; posted, 7/-
TURKISH.
10 in a box, 1/-; posted, 1/1
25 in a box, 2/6 ; posted, 2/8
50 in a box, 5/- ; posted, 5/4
100 in a box, 9/-; posted, 9/6
gfj
ANDREW McGEE,
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
The Victorian motorist, as well as his
chauffeur, doesn’t seem to worry much wuen
he is fined £lO for a breach of the traffic
regulations'; but he is plainly hurt when the
Court asks for his license so that it may be
endorsed with the conviction. The reason,
of course, is that a third conviction means the
forfeiture of the “ticket.” This suggests that
the no.licy might be advantageously ex-
tended, so that the adulterating milk vendor
might be relieved from vending altogether
after his third conviction, and the baker
whose scales persist in calling 14oz. a
pound might cease altogether from putting
off light-weight bread. Likewise the im-
porter whose invoices are eternally getting
him into trouble at the Customs might be
refused a license to import any more, and
the boot manufacturer who is thrice dis-
covered putting brown paper into leather
boots would ipso facto retire from the in-
dustry. Judging from the motorists the en-
dorsement of the license is more feared than
twentv £2O fines; wherefore, let us all be
licensed, with due endorsements if we go
wrong.


DAT
NIGHT
Wear
(REG?
“Viyella”
for Comfort
THE manner in which “Viyella” has
become first favorite among dis-
cerning people is eloquent testimony
as to the merits of the fabric. The reasons
for such popularity are expressed in the
well-known “Viyella” qualities of softness,
lightness, unshrinkability and durability.
It combines warmth with comfort to
tender skins, and is the ideal fabric for the
present time of the year.
All progressive drapers and store-
keepers. stock “Viyella.” Look for the
name on the selvedge.
Viyella-
fg
NEW EPISON
RECORPS are
NOW ON SALE !
WE anticipate a heavy demand for several Records of the August
issue, so that you will be wise to make your selection of them
as early as you possibly can.
The Grand Opera Records of this issue are a splendid lot, those by
Blanche Arral and Leo Slezak, the greatest living tenor, being particularly
noteworthy.
Call on your dealer to-day and hear the ne’w Records. If you do not
know the address of a dealer, write us direct and we will tell you, and also
send latest lists of machines and records.
AMBEROL RECORDS FOR AUGUST
(Four-Minute)
600— Zampa Overture.... Edison Concert Band
601— Alma —-“Alma, Where Do You Live?”
Spencer and Ormsby
602 — Asthore . . Reinald Werrenratli
603 Barbara Frietchie (Recitation)
E. L. Davenport
604- —-Cradle Song Medley (Violin Solo)
J. Scott Skinner
606 The Fisherman... Anthony and Harrison
607 —Military Life Two-Step (for Dancing)
N. Y. Military Band
608 — When a Boy from Old New Hampshire
Harlan and Chorus
609 — Doctor’s Testimonials.. Golden & Hughes
610— The Gateway City March (Xylophone
Solo Daab
611 — Somebody Else... Billy Murray & Chorus
612 — The Lord is My Light
Berrick von Norden
613 — Girls of Baden Waltz (for Dancing)
N. Y. Military Band
616 — Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes (Old
English Air) .... Stanley and Gillette
617 — Kiss Me, My Honey, Kiss Me
Jones and Murray
618 — We’re Tenting To-night
Knickerbocker Quartette
12249 —The Boys of the Old Brigade (March)
National Mil. Band
12252 —Hop Scotch—Barn Dance (Concertina
Solo Prince
12253 —Good-bye, Sweetheart, Good-bye
Ernest Pike
12254—A Most Delightful Evening
Arthur Osmond
12256—They All Love Jack Peter Dawson
12260 —Queen Among the Heather.. Harry Lauder
12261—The Storm Fiend David Brazell
12262—1 Can’t Keep My Eyes Off the Girls
Florrie Forde
12263—Angel’s Serenade (Cello Solo)
Jean Schwilier
12265 —How to be Happy, Though Married
Arthur Osmond
GRAND OPERA AMBEROL.
30035 —Pagliacci—Vesti la giubba (Sung in
Italian).. Florencio Constantino (Tenor)
30036—Lohengrin—Elsa’s Traum (Sung in Ger-
man) Marie Rappold (Soprano)
35014 —Barbiere di Siviglia—Una voce poco fa
(Sung in Italian)..Selma Ivurz (Soprano)
35015 —Grand Mogul—Valse des Serpents (Sung
in French) .... Blanche Arral (Soprano)
40038—Die Meistersinger—Preislied (Sung in
German) Leo Slezak (Tenor)
STANDARD RECORDS FOR AUGUST
(Two=Minute)
10466 —The Corcoran Cadets March Sousa’s Band
10467—1 n Dear Old Tennessee. .Elizabeth Spencer
10468 —Saviour, More Than Life
Anthony and Hairison
10472 —Oh, You Dream
Ada Jones and Billy Murray
10473 —There’s a Light in the Window
Will Oakland
10474 —In Absence Weber Male Quartette
10475- —Alpine Rose (Bells Solo) ... Charles Daab
14033 —The Cockney Band Two-Step
National Military Band
14036 —Girls, Beware of the Barefaced Men
Florrie Forde
14037 —Austrian Cadets March (Concertina Solo)
Alexander Prince
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
(Wholesale Only), Dept. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
i
&
LO
'sr
fUffHOT oAVV 'sfl>»
WONQQJt
cp
50
A Reliable, Keyless, Fly-back, Centre Second
Watch, in Oxidised Steel Case—the “ Trotter,”
for official timing and professional purposes, 25/*
“ Derby’
taneousr
quarter \
nometer
Spring.
Hunting,
Double Chronograph, gives instan-
ecordsin minutes and seconds. Three-
late Lever, Euby Jewelled, fine Chro-
Expansion Balance, Breqnet Hair
Solid Silver Open Case, £6/10/- •
£7/10/-. 18ct. Gold Case: Open
Face, £2O ; Hunting, £22.
Our Leading Watch Values.
An Extra Strong- Watch, manufactured
specially for us at the Waltham Factory.
Sterling silver case, three-quarter plate,
jewelled lever movement. Grand value, £3/10/-
Bushman’s Lever Watch, specially suitable for
hard town and country wear. Keyless Lever
movement, jewelled, non-magnelic, duj-t and
damp proof Oxidised Steel case. £l/1/-
Attractive Ladies’ Waltham
Lever Watch. Three-quarter
Plate, Jewelled Compensating
Balance, Engraved lOet. Gold
Case, £B/10/-; 14ct. Gold,
£lO/10/- ; 18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
tv.
M
%
lift
I'.'V.'i't
&
KS
S?
W>,
i xr\\v
m
m
mm
X<
w.
•w.
f So
%vv
!r&?
Mr
m
'X£.
aft®
ss
as
s»K
V-v
r.V.v;
•>*
V-V
feS'32
V,v
I
Av
;r»v.
Av
S&?
■:.v
w.S
•>-y.
■>:£&.
>AV
V/T:
1
asst
AV
;r/:
•Jr/!
ir/r;
I
oriv
•Av
'■h'&.i
\VS
Av
5©
>'.Av
Write for our
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Every Stewart Dawson Watch giiaranteed in writing, and given a week's trial.
Stewart, Dawson & Co
(Australia) Ltd.,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney.


PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
The Crystal Palace,
SYDENHAM,
THE HOME OF SCIENCE, ART, LITERATURE,
and MUSIC, and
THE SCENE OF THE FESTIVAL OF EMPIRE,
and now within 15 minutes of London by Express
Electric Service, will be SOLD by AUCTION, at
a date hereafter to be fixed, pursuant to an order
of the High Court of Justice made in an action
re The Crystal Palace Company, Fox v. The Com-
pany, with the approbation of Mr. Justice Swin-
fen Eady, by Mr.
I—IOWARD FRANK (of the firm of Knight, Frank
1 1 and Rutlev), and Mr.
J OHN ROY LANCASTER (of the firm of Horne
and Co.), the persons appointed by the said
Judge, at
THE ESTATE ROOM, 20 HANOVER-SQUARE,
LONDON, W.
THE CRYSTAL PALACE ESTATE is FREEHOLD,
and comprises
200 ACRES, 3 ROODS, 22 POLES.
The Main Building is a London Landmark known
all over the World.
In the Centre Transept is
THE GREAT ORCHESTRA,
where so many historic Concerts and Handel Festivals
have been held.
In the side Transepts are —
The Chinese Court. The Alhambra Court.
The Egyptian Court. The Byzan.,..
The Greek Court. The Rena'ss Jo..rt.
The Roman Court. The French Court.
The English Medieval Court.
Also the Rifle Range, the Crystal Fountain, the
Amusements Court, the Gymnasium, the Swimming
Hath, the Crystal Palace Club, and Skating Rink,
and Band Stands.
The VARIETY THEATRE, which will take 1950
people.
THE KING’S CORRIDOR, with a Suite of Reception
Rooms and Roval Boxes.
THE CONCERT ROOM,
with Orchestra for 300, and accommodating 2700.
GALLERIES for SCULPTURE and PICTURES.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS, DINING HALLS, and
TEA ROOMS.
The BUILDINGS include
The Schools of Art, Engineering and Electricity, and
Physical Culture.
The Famous PARK, GARDENS, and GROUNDS,
laid out by Sir Joseph Paxton, extend to 182 acres,
and include the TERRACES, LAKES, FOUNTAINS,
and WATERFALLS, the CRICKET GROUND, the
FOOTBALL GROUND, upon which the Final Cup
'Fie has for many years been played, the TENNIS
GROUNDS, with their Pavilions, the Maze, Bowling
Greens, the North Tower Gardens, Band Stands, the
Maxim Flying Machine, the Panorama Building, etc.
THE LOWER LAKE
contains an area of 5J acres, and is surrounded by a
wonderful Collection of Prehistoric Animals, the
work of the late Mr. B. W. Hawkins, F.G.S.
There are about 4000 feet of Valuable Frontages
Available, and 6252 feet of Frontages Let.
The GROUND-RENTS PRODUCE
PER £1477 ANNUM,
and there is a considerable income derived from
various sources, the particulars of which may be had
of the Auctioneers.
Among the EFFECTS included in the SALE will be
The WHOLE of the PLANT and MACHINERY
belonging to the Vendors.
The large Clock.
Ornamental Marble Basins, Fountains, and Gar-
den Ornaments.
The Collection of Statuary, Plaques, Models. r id
Casts.
The Collection of Pictures and Curios.
The Collection of Books.
Large Quantity of Furniture.
Persian and other Carpets.
Educational and other Objects of Interest.
And Miscellaneous Effects.
At the opening Ceremony in 1854 the late Queen
Victoria said: —
“It is my earnest wish and hope that the bright an-
ticipations which have been formed as to the
future destiny of the Crystal Palace may, under
the blessing of Divine Providence, be completely
realised, and that this wonderful structure, and
the treasures of art and knowledge which it
contains, may long continue to elevate and in-
terest, as well as to delight and amuse the
minds of all classes of people.” V
Since then 80,000,000 people have- paid for en-
-1 ranee, and the Palace has been the scene of brilliant
f tate functions, probably unparalleled in the record
of any other place of public resort in the world.
It is earnestly hoped that someone may come for-
ward and save the Crystal Pale •' for the people.
The PALACE and EVERYTHING APPERTAIN-
ING THERETO belonging to the Vendor? will be
OFFERED IN ONE’vLOT AS A GOING CONCERN,
with the benefit Of Current Agreements.
Illustrated particulars, price 7/6, when ready, may
be had Of: —
The Solicitors. Messrs. JANSON, COBB, PEARSON
and Co., 22 College-hill, London. E.C.
The Receiver and Manager, ERNEST. I. HUSEY,
Fsq., Messrs. Jackson, Pixley and Co., 58 Coleman-
sireet, London, E.C.
The Surveyors, Messrs. HORNE and Co., 85 Gres-
bam-street, London, E.C.
The Auctioneers, Messrs. KNIGHT, FRANK and
]; UTLEY, 20 Hanover-square, London, W.
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
EYE
°INTMEMT
CURES
fgj
_ Look manly and
smart by growing an attrac-
tive Moustache. ‘MOUSTA,’
the True Moustache Grower,
speedily forces one at any
age like magic. Quite harmless to use.
Boys become men. ‘ Mousta *is used
all over the world and is . strongly
recommended by the Medical Pro-
fession. Entire success or money willingly
returned. ‘ Mousta ’ produces astonishingly
quick results and is the talk of London.
Full Treatment, sufficient to promote Good
Growth, 6/“ (postage 6d. extra), sent at once
in plain wrapper on receipt of International
Money Order, 5/6. Send now to —
F. DIXON & CO., 42, Junction Road,
London, N., England.
gj
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Cougns and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
Amusements
EW pITINCESS THEITrRE
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE'S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/• Plan Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
Tenders.
THE MELBOURNE HARBOR TRUST.
TENDERS are invited until 11 o’clock a.m. on
* Tuesday, Ist August, 1911, for the SUPPLY
of PILES and SAWN TIMBER for Wharf Construc-
tion in two contracts, as follows: —
1. The supply of twelve hundred Piles, of lengths
from 60ft. to 70ft., as specified (as a whole or
for a portion).
2. The supply of one million two hundred and
fifty thousand super, feet of Sawn Timber, as
specified (as a whole or for a portion).
Specifications and tender forms may be obtained
on application at the offices of the commissioners.
A preliminary deposit, as specified, in cash or
banker’s cheque, must be enclosed with tender.
The lowest or any tender will not necessarily be
accepted.
Tenders, accompanied by the printed specification,
with the schedule of prices and quantities duly filled
in, must be on the prescribed (blue) form, addressed
to the Melbourne Harbor Trust Commissioners, and
enclosed “Tender for ” (as the case may be).
By order.
R. RUDD, Secretary.
605 and 607 Flinders Street, Melbourne, 17th June,
1911.
MUNICIPALITY OF YOUNG.
TENDER FOR TOWN HALL
SHOW WEEK-
4th to 9th September, 1911, inclusive.
TENDERS will be received up to 1 p.m. on WED-
-1 NESDAY, 9th AUGUST, 1911, from persons de-
sirous of RENTING THE TOWN HALL for above
period, subject to rules governing same. A deposit of
10 per cent, of amount of tender to accompany each
tender; successful tenderer to lodge oalance of
amount, together with 10s. deposit against damage,
within seven days from date of acceptance, failing
which the 10 per cent, deposit will be forfeited. The
highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Much improved stage and lighting conveniences.
Any further information can be obtained on appli-
cation to the undersigned.
THOMAS A. TESTER, Town Clerk.
Town Hall, Young, July 12, 1911.
Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY : MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo plav manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS-EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England: Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “ International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
T O W N H A L L, SYDNEY.
Under Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
AUGUST 3,7, 8 (Matinbe), 10 and 12.
LEONARD
BORWICK
O.»K OF THE WORLD’S GREAT PIANISTS.
PIANOFORTE RECITALS.
PRICES 6/-, 3-/, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Mariayer: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
MR. H. B. IRV I N G’S SEASON
LAST TWO NIGHTS of HAMLET.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 22,
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
in THU LYOiNS MAIL.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney,
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE MUSICAL PLAY IN THREE ACTS,
THIS BALKAN PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Palinjr’s.
Prices as usual.
C RI
TERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH COMIC
OPERA COMPANY in
THE GAY GRISETTE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 22,
Special Revival of The London Musical Comedy Success
SERGEANT BRUE.
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management., Grok of. Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45,
First Presentation in Sydney of the Charming'
. . Domestic Melodrama, entitled,
THE MOTHER of his CHTLD
Interpreted by the Full Strength of GEORGE MARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors—Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd.
Governing Director—Mr. James Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
Matinees—Wednesdays and Saturdays.
TOBY CLAUDE, Artistic Comedienne, in New Songs.
MILLIE DORIS, Eccentric Comedienne.
THE VAGGES, Bag Punchers. PARKER & WILSON.
ANITA DIAZ, with her wonderful Monkeys.
Ordinary Prices—2/-, 1/6,1/.; Gallery 6d. Reserved Seats,
6d. extra. Saturday Nights—2/-, 1/6 & lI-
AMATEUR TRIAL NIGHTS, FRIDAY EVENINGS.
THE SHEFFIELD
CHOIR.
Direction .. .. DR. CHARLES HARRISS.
AUSTRALASIAN ITINERARY.
MELBOURNE
BALLARAT...
ADELAIDE...
PERTH
... JULY 15 to 22.
... JULY 21.
... JULY 26 to 27.
... AUGUST 3.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Sole Australasian Manager,
Sydney, c/o W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd.
Melbourne—c/o Allan & Co.
Adelaide—c/o Marshall & Sons.
Perth —c/o Nicholson & Co.
s
YDN E Y
REAL
GLAC I A R I
ICE~SKATING.
U M.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
Admission—2/- ; Children : Morning & Afternoon only, 1/-
Children : Saturday Morning only, 6d.
SKATE HIRE—SIXPENCE.
Private Instruction may be Booked for Hours during
and between the Sessions.
'Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
T
HE
LYCEUM
EVENING AT 8
EVERY
MATINELS-YVtDNtSDAYS SAUI9MYS AND HOLIDAYS At 2 30
C PENCERSIHI ATRKCOPE <?
J PICTURES
■» *fic sup£K.roft ro /ul or/fEns. »
Popular Prlc.es Plaw at Pahn&».
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manairer —Mil, Harry Rickards.
MAXI NEKS WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
BINNS & BINNS, the Comedy and Music Vagabonds.
ALCIDE OAPITAINE, The Perfect Lad.v Gymnast.
SPISSELL BROS. & MACK, Eccentrics & Pantomimists.
FRANCIS and ALFRED, Comedy Jugglers.
KELDINE and KLIMO. THE TWO LILLIES.
GODFREY JAMES. BROWN & ROBINSON.
PEARL HELLMRICH. EMILE DANI.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —Bs., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor (fe Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards..
ARTHUR CROXON, Monologue Entertainer.
REIOHEN'S PERFORMING DOGS.
LAMBERTI, in Impersonations of Great Masters of Music.
BLANCHE CHARMEROY, Musical Artiste.
MARGUERITE ISMAY and Girls in Spectacular Scene,
“Off to Lapland.”
TOM DAWSON, Australian Comedian
DELINO, Wire Walker and Juggler.
Plan at Allan's. iZfT PRICES—Bs., 25., Is.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Andkrson.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
A Revival of the Realistic Australian Drama,
THE MAN EIIOM OUTBACK
Reappearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “Stockport
Remedy ” for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
L.JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager: 0. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OUR MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICKS—S/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, ......
■ Lessees: GEORGE MARLOW, LTD.
MELBOURNE.
>W, LTD.
Direction : MELBOURNE COMIC OPERA CO.
Commencing on SATURDAY NEXT (22nd),
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY,
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By Paul Rabkas.
Arrangement with Messrs. Clarke & Meynell Prop. Ltd.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
I’HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
THE EVENT OF THE YEAR.
A GIGANTIC ENTERPRISE.
MISS ETHEL IRVING and her LONDON COMPANY in
THE WITNESS FOR THE . DEFENCE
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
UIEST'S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE I!ICST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALU
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tub World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Pici m e Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —(id. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's
Wl RTHS OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
MAT! NEES-V/EDMESDAYS. SATURDAYS AM HOLIDAYS AT 2 30.
CPENCER'SUTeATREJCOPI <?.
J PICTURES
<-» rfRE SUPER.IO/3 ro PLL OTHERS
Popular Priced -»♦- Plan as Usual
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2,30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on tue Marvellous ‘ Muck ” Screen, together with tnr
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
| C E SKATING.
Melbourne GLACiARIUM.
NOW OPEN. ’
AFTERNOON—HaIf-past 3 o’clock.
EVENING—7.4S o’clock.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
..?C3v&
We don’t believe any Aecordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Aecordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larfre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
P r jMA jP I
■ ■* ww m■ «
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Onoto
Pen
12*
upwards-A
THINK
OF THE INK
Ink wells are not
safe things around the
home. A careless movement
and cushions, carpets, curtains
may be spoilt—as well .as clothes.
The Onoto Self-filling Safety Fountain
Fen —Never leaks
—Fills Itself in s flash
—Writes smoothly and speedily.
It is a perfect writing implement, and co>t,s but
12 /- at all stationers, jewellers and stores And it is
British made.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to THOS.
DE La Rue <fc Co., Ltd., 361 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representative, Norman Baker, 50 York St., Sydney.
IMPORTANT. —For those who require a larger pen with a very flexibtl
nib, the new “O" has been put on the market.
Ask for Onoto Ink—the best for Fountain and all other neatc
A RAZOR FIT FOR A KING!
gj
YOU can have a comfortable shave every day of the yeai
by using THE PLUM Razor, with its clean-
cutting, easy-going, dependable blade that requires
no grinding and very little stropping.
The Plum Razor,
10/6
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Send for our Free
Illustrated Price
List.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing in Tubes,
1/.. A boon to men who shave
themselves.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each,
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
The G. & A. Moustache Trainer shape* the moustache. Worn at night.
No. 1, 2/6; No. 2, 3/6 ; No. 3, 6/6. Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.


2!
111
m
IDEAL
LIGHTING
A brilliant light can
best be given by air-gas
generated by Brandt’s
modern Atmoslite. The
light is purer, steadier,
more satisfactory in
every way than gas
or other illuminants,
and considerably
cheaper. Write to-day
for Free Illustrated
Catalogue.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.,
LAMPHOUSE.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St, Melbourne
ASTHMA CURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN OIfiARFTTFS
ssa -
‘‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific'de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
Y° u use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
m the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain oif them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect . the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
j. to - Cur ?. y° u - Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
Me have letters to show you from deaf people
m Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
S A n v£ e I’ Slt) 'i Thl ? chides a pair of Drums
(thej are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
any time for 8s„ but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
V. se the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay but have
can C ° mfort ° f go ° d you
ORDER form.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of -Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums an In
serter and a ■ Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound. c
Name.-...
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent
you must register it.
PHOSFER j N E
The Remedy of Kings
A further mark of Royal Appreciation has again distinguished
Phosferine by the bestowal of a
ROYAL WARRANT TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
H.M. THE KING OF SPAIN
This world-renowned restorative medicine has
already for many years been supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To the Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
The Imperial Family of China
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World
■HI
■
m
:■
1
SW:
Mr. Grahame White
British School of A viation,
Hendon, writes :
“In preventing and over-
coming the ill-eflects of
exposure and relieving
nerve strain, I have found
Phosferine most effective
for bracing and toning the
system."
Mr. Henry Farman
The Famous Aeroplanist,
writes:
“ Phosferine imparts and
stimulates a mental alert-
ness and physical energy
which has contributed im-
mensely to the success of
my aerial flights.”
M. Louis Bleriot
The First Man to Fly across the English Channel,
Baraques to Dover, July 25, 1909, writes:
“I can with confidence recommend Phosferine as a
bracing nerve tonic and a restorative for loss of vitality.”
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROYEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the neryous system.
PUBLIC CAUTION
Purchasers of Phosferine (spelled Phosferine) should insist upon
being supplied with the genuine preparation, as supplied to the
King of Spain and nearly all the Royal Families of Europe.
The fact that Phosferine is The Royal Tonic assures customers
that it is highly commended by the greatest living physicians.
When asking for PHOSFERINE see that the article you get is
the genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name which
may be offered from interested motives. The original and
only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & “PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
fg
fgj
gj
Prizes Value
£3OOO
8-HOUR
ART UNION
and SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1911.
Ist Prize, value £650-
3rd Prize, value £2OO.
2nd Prize, value £350.
And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S. W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE .SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades=Hall, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6
gjfgj
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Bast
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA , and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
each pair guaranteed.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
THE
(RECIS
QH£?L?
TEREO)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C? t ;
BRISBANE, Q..,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
fgj
You are not
looking so well!
Perhaps you are a little run
down from overwork or worry ?
Take a cup of
Van
Houten’s
Cocoa
3t breakfast and lunch time.
Van Houten's Cocoa strengthens
the body, fortifies the nerves and
acts as a general pick-me-up.
Its flavour is delicious.
Refuse all imitations: insist on
“Van Houten’s!” ,
<3.
*3
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using Your Own Letter
Paper, Invoices,
etc., WITH THE
NSC/ 200
PATENT Zanetic
copying Book .
&
You simply insert
your writing paper
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure !>y
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford
Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100 Copying 200 full size lOin. x Sin.
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.


©
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke. 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, \vei|
of 16-gauge GJlb. to 6|lb.
of 12-gauge about 6flb. to 71b.,
DELIVERED,
67/6
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at, /4/- extra.
We are the Sole Agents in Is'.S. W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica,
lions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g auge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
fgj
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about G£lb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Eurrel Gun. Non . E j ectori 23/6 I EjeCtOf, 2 51~
Postage—2/6 N.S. \V. ;
4/8 Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps.
Send for our Illustrated
Sports, Fishing and
Tobacco Lists, FREE.
fgj
"THE MAINE"
f?ifie
<£heu/ing Pifle Apart.
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Riffle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
15\-
fgj
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued t
steel barrel, weight 3.jslb., #O/0
Or with Sliding Sights
21/
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darting St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney ; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St.. Newtown. [1
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Dank of N.S.W.
THIS
ĵfg
WHEEL
is one of the distinctive features of the latest
AUSTRALASIAN MODELS of the famous
B.S.A. CYCLE FITTINGS
and has been specially designed as a protection
against the possible substitution of cheap imitation
parts for the GENUINE B.S.A. in your bicycle.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —This Chain Wheel embodies the registered
B.S.A. Trade Mark, which renders the fitting of it to any bicycle
other than a Genuine B.S.A. punishable by law.
This Chain Wheel, like the B.S.A. Transfer, is the mark of
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
For fuller particulars of B.S.A. Fittings, Eadie Coaster Hub, Two-Speeds,
&C., obtain the latest B.S.A. Handbook (Australasian Edition). Post free from
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two=speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®, Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Williams’
Talcum Powder
w
Mtims;
Pen
Four reasons for the rapidly
growing popularity of Wil-
liams’ Talcum Powder.
1. The finest Tale the world
affords.
2. The sweetest, daintiest
perfumes.
3. Most artistic boxes.
4. The Hinged Top that prevents
sticking, leaking and loss of perfume.
The only High-Class Powder made
in the Popular Carnation Perfume.
Sold Everywhere.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, 2s 6d posted. Meriue
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
WindowTicketWriting Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1 s 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Plow to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Thicks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
B
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
IMP-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. “&B
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t toe fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D# Kst&blished %5 1 cuts.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE CiO r FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Ilow to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bhsii Sonus, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Gd.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. Gd. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s Gd post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s Gd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 ami 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d., Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), is 6d posted. The Age of Reason by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


fgj
ĵg
fgj
These are always ushered in by a Sudden Chill. The
next step is marked by a gradually rising Fever. The next
by Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Running Nose, Head=
ache, Cough, Painful Breathing or Expectoration.
Then you are at the critical turn. It calls for action, also care in
selecting the remedy to take, because delay and experimenting mean
death by Pneumonia or weakened lungs.
THE BEST REMEDY! THE SUREST REMEDY! THE SAFEST REMEDY!
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
VA v
The Safeguard of the Home
EVIDENCE!
“ Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has
indeed been a boon in our home,” writes
Mrs. C. Payne, Windmill Street, Valley,
Brisbane, Q. “My husband had a very
bad cold on the chest for a long time, and
although he tried several kinds of cough
cures did not obtain any relief whatever,
and, in fact, I began to think it would
never leave him. However, one day I
was given a bottle of Sheldon’s New
Discovery, which I got my husband to
try, although at first he laughed at the
idea of it giving him relief, having had
such poor results from the other medi-
cines, and, marvellous to say, it seemed
to relieve him at once. When this bottle
was finished I purchased another, and it
has entirely cured my husband. I also
had a very bad attack of bronchitis my-
self, and Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
cured me too. I have never come across
such a wonderful medicine. It is worth
its weight in gold, and I will never be
without it in the house.”
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is an unequalled preparation for the immediate
relief and permanent cure of all diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult
Respiration, and Pains in the Chest. When used according to directions is a sure preventive
of Pneumonia and Consumption. Every bottle guaranteed to give satisfaction, or money
refunded. Price 1/6 and 3/-, Plospital size 5/-. If not obtainable locally will be posted
upon receipt of the price by the Sheldon Drug Co. Ltd., Sydney.
NOTE. —In obstinate cases of chest complaints, DR. SHELDON’S MAGNETIC LINIMENT will
relieve the congestion and materially assist the action of DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY.
This Liniment will greatly assist in effecting .a speedy cure if thoroughly rubbed on chest
and throat while taking the ‘‘NEW DISCOVERY.”
D? Sheldons
NewDiscoveri
gj
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE tt
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY
STATIONER
AND
{ DEALERS
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills ® Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning'»/ » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
A Woman from Sangir
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITHIN the barrier reef that almost
entirely encompasses Jakoits Har-
bor. in the Caroline Group, is a
small island less than 200 acres in extent. On
the western side, save for a narrow ledge vis-
ible at low tide, it rises steep from the deep,
placid water —a stark, grim cliff of grey and
white. Eastward it slopes considerably, but
even in the lowest part the wall of rock is
not less than 50ft. in height from wooded
summit to base. From the harbor, in those
days, only two or three native houses were
visible on the narrow sea ledge near the
western face; above was a strongly fortified
village held by some hundreds of savage, in-
tractable people, whose ruler, Tal, was the
terror of the island of Ponape. Cruel, crafty,
and as vindictive as he was courageous in
warfare, his mana was great from one end
of the Caroline Archipelago to the other.
Towards sunset one afternoon in Novem-
ber, when the westerly winds begin to re-
place the north-east trades, a yellow-painted
brigantine, showing the Stars and Stripes
from her gaff, sailed leisurely in through
the passage to Jakoits Harbor, and cast
anchor within a cable length of Tal’s island ;
and, as the savage old chief looked down
upon her from his house, a grim smile of
pleasure lit up his wrinkled features. For
Mason, the skipper of the Virginia, and he
were old friends and comrades in crime.
Mason, whilst always willing to sell or buy
from white man or native on orthodox trad-
ing terms, was also quite ready to steal or
murder, if he thought the latter course
would be more profitable, and save unneces-
sary “palaver.” And all of his officers and
crew—save one man—were like unto him-
self. They were black-, brown-, and yellow-
skinned cut-throats from all parts of the
East Indies. The one exception was his
chief mate, a middle-aged man named Grace,
a French-Canadian of Trois Rivieres, in the
province of Quebec. He had shipped as
mate with Mason, at the island of Sangir,
and before two weeks had passed the cap-
tain and he were at enmity. Grace was a
strong man, mentally and physically. He
would knock a man down if the man were
insolent, but would not kick him when
down; Mason, whether drunk o* sober, al-
ways kicked after he had hit. Hence the
crew of the Virginia greatly respected Cap-
tain Lucas Mason, and by the time the brig-
antine arrived at Ponape, correspondingly
despised Ilervd Grace.
In the face of the grim cliff on the western
side of Tal’s fortified island were two caves,
reaching far back into the rock, and situated
some 20ft. above the sea-level. In each pf
these was a whaleboat, ready to be lowered
at any moment when Tal signified his in-
tention of setting out upon one of his fre-
quent and bloody maritime raids on the
islands lying to leeward of Ponape. As the
brigantine came to an anchor, the old chief
and a party of his best fighting men de-
scended by ropes of twisted cane to the caves,
and lowered the boats into the water. The
brigantine’s eight guns thundered out a
salute; for Mason was a business man, and
did not mind expending a few pounds of
powder to delight the heart and vanity of
his savage ally.
Mason greeted Tal effusively, and the old
man’s eyes looked enviously at the brigan-
tine’s main deck, with the eight nine-pounder
guns, now being housed to prevent their
polish getting spoiled by the nightly rains.
If only he had enough money to buy the ship
and Mason and his crew, and sail westward
to lap, and conquer the people and bring
back a hundred or more slaves ! Then would
his mama be still greater than it was now T .
Tal and the captain sat in deck-chairs,
and the steward brought them liquor, and
they began to talk business. Mason wanted
hawkbill turtle-shell, trepang and oil; Tal
wanted arms and ammunition, rum and to-
bacco.
Seated on the skylight, and engaged in
making a fine mat, was a handsome young
woman with Semitic features. She was
dressed in semi-European costume, and as
Grace passed her he placed his hand play-
fully on her head, with its thickly coiied-up
masses of jetty-black hair. She smiled back
a t .“ ira > an< 3 went on with her plaiting.
Suddenly Tal saw her.
. &irl> a nd whence comes
she?” he asked.
She belongs to my mate, and comes from
aa Jpr —-a place far from here.”
, “She is good to look upon. I shall buy
her. Tell your mate to come to me quickly
and name his price.”
Mason s h°°h his head. “He will not sell.
He thinks much of her.”
£ T i l< L. old man laughed sardonically, then
fixed his cruel eyes on Mason.
It is my mind to buy her. Call the man
to me. lamin no mood to waste words.”
Mason moved uneasily in his seat. He
dared not offend Tal, nor did he wish an-
other quarrel with Grace. He thought a few
moments, then spoke.
“Why ask me this, friend Tal? This
woman is a stranger, and your wives will
surely kill her because of that alone; and
my mate is a, strong man. Neither you nor
I can force him to sell. What is one woman
more or less to you?”
-A- fierce gleam came into the crafty eyes.
I shall buy her. Neither he nor you shall
refuse me.”
Again Mason considered. “We can hut
try him. If he refuses-then there are
other ways.
Tal nodded. “Good ; I understand. Now
send the man to me.”
chief aCe Came and St °° d before the old
“White man, I would buy that woman nff
£?. u - hundred plates of hawkbill shell
Us a big price.
V, u „ wiI TT not ® ell - 1 need no hawkbill
shell. He motioned to the girl to go to
his quarters in the deck-house, and then
after a curt nod to Tal, went for’ard again
He was not a sentimental man ; but, as the
girl had been willing to follow his fortunes
he was averse to selling her as if she were
a musket or a keg of powder
That evening Mason went on shore with
Tal, and the two had a further talk Tal
was to have the girl from Sangir, and Mn«nn
was to have 600 plates of shell. As they sat
and talked, Tal’s youngest and favorite wife
played with her infant son at the further
end of the chief s house.
In the morning Grace set out with
boats foy Metalanien Harbor, 10 miles down
the coast, where he was to collect some
casks of oil belonging to Tal. He was away
two days. Mason met him as he stepped
on deck.
“What has gone wrong between you and
Siara?” he asked. "She cleared out last
night. Must have swum ashore. Thought
she had gone after you. Have you seen
anything of her?”
"No,” said Grace, indifferently, “I have
not. There are 30 casks of oil in the boats.”
Mason gave an inward sigh of relief.
Grace wasn’t going to make a luss, after all.
"Thirty casks, eh! Well, Tal is a man of
his word. He said 30. Come below and
have a drink.”
Grace took half a glass of Bourbon,
tossed it off with a “Here’s luck!” lit his
pipe, and rose to go on deck again.
“Darned queer about that girl of yours
clearing out like that, ain’t it? Glad you
ain’t worryin’ about it.” Then he added,
with a grin: “I guess you won’t go inter
mournin’. There’s no place like Ponape
fur pickin’ up a noo and handsome wife at a
low figger.”
Grace nodded. “That is so. Guess I’ll
get that oil stowed right away.”
A week had passed. Grace went about
his work as usual, going from point to point
along the coast, collecting oil and trepang.
But he knew that Siara was in Tal's
stronghold. The steward, bribed by a 20dol.
gold piece, had told him. The girl had been
surprised in her sleep by some of the crew;
her head muffled, she had been quietly
placed in a canoe and taken on shore. He
(the steward) had twice been to Tal’s vil-
lage to see the native girls dancing, but had
seen nothing of Siara. Yet he knew that
she was there, and was the cause of much
discussion. The people murmured at the old
chief placing such a slight upon his young
wife, who was the daughter of a chief
second only in power to Tal himself, for the
sake of a stranger, whom he loaded with pre-
sents. That the girl was unwilling, and
fretting to escape, did not matter to them.
Had they dared, they would have speared,
shot or poisoned her, but the fear of Tal was
an ever-present terror. Yet the feeling of
resentment grew. And Tal gave orders for
a great feast in honor of the girl of Sangir.
The people assembled before the house of
the chief, which stood almost on the verge of
the cliff, 200 ft. above the sea. On the cane-
work platform of the house sat Tal, his
wives and his leading chiefs. Within the
dwelling was Siara, waiting to be summoned.
Prom where she sat she watched Nait, the
chief’s favorite wife, and her two-year-old
son. The child was pulling the ears of a
small white dog, and laughing as the animal
pretended to bite the little brown hands.
Suddenly the old man spoke.
"Siara of Sangir, come hither and sit be-
side me.”
dead silence followed. The girl, with
bent head and trembling limbs, obeyed.
Then Tal, whose anger was ablaze at the
silence of his people, took a cooked lish and
a piece of taro, placed them on a wooden
platter such as was used by chiefs only, and
motioned to Nait to approach.
“Sit down, and serve this Siara with
food,” he commanded, “and see well that
thou pickest out every bone.”
The insult was deadly; but slowly Nait
rose, and with the red spark of danger in
her sullen eyes, sat herself in front of Siara,
with the platter between them. Taking up
the fish, she opened it length-ways with
steady hands. Then, quick as lightning, she
struck Siara with it in the face, and, raising
her head, looked defiantly at the old savage.
Tal gave a grim laugh. He gazed
steadily at the silent people before him,
then at those sitting near him. Nait’s
child was still playing with the dog.
“Bring me the dog,” he commanded, as
his cruel eyes sought his wife’s now averted
face. A woman brought him the animal.
“Rise,” he said to Nait. “Take the dog
and cast it over the cliff.”
The woman obeyed. Taking the dog in
her arms, she walked to the edge of the cliff
and let it drop—2ooft. down upon the ledge
of rock that jutted out from its base.
“Good,” said Tal. “Now take the child.”
The child was carried to her.
“Let it follow the dog, and then follow it
thyself.”
She took the child to her bosom and held
it tightly. One sob escaped her lips; then
she sprang over.
Not a sound came from the people. Tal
had covered his wrinkled face with a mat.
The silence was broken by the sound of
voices from the deck of the brigantine.
Tal uncovered his face, and, stretching out
his arm to Siara, spoke :
“Woman of Sangir; go back to thy white
man. Thou hast cost me too much, and art
like to cost me more if thou stayest.”
Grace said but little when, on entering the
deck-house, he found Siara there. “ ’Twas
not thy fault” —that was all. He had food
brought to her, watched her eat, filled and lit
his pipe, and thought bitterly of Mason.
On the following 'evening Mason gave the
crew liberty, and he and the second mate
went on shore with them, leaving Grace, the
steward and one Manila man on board.
When all was quiet, Grace took a length of
fuse and busied himself with the powder
banrels in the lazarette. That done, he
bored a hole through the bulkhead into the
main hold, and passed one end of the fuse
through. Siara sat on the skylight, keeping
watch.
At midnight came the sound of oars. On
the port side was the ship’s dinghy, with pro-
visions and water. For’ard lay the Manila
man with a knife thrust through his heart
—the steward had attended to him.
The boat drew near, and Grace’s heart
leapt within him as he heard Tal’s voice.
“Old Tal and I are going to see daylight
in, Mr. Grace,” said Mason, who was al-
ready half drunk. “He’s got a fit of the
dumps.”
“Maybe he’ll feel better presently,” com-
mented the mate cheerfully, as he went on
deck.
Silently Siara and the steward slipped
over the side into the dinghy and waited —
Grace had gone into the hold. In five min-
utes he joined them, and he and Juan the
steward took to the oars and made for the
passage. At a safe distance they ceased pul-
ling, and waited.
A sheet of flame and a thundering roar,
and the Virginia sank beneath the calm
waters of the harbor.
LOUIS BECKE.


Every Home
L- Needs Zam Bu
10,000,000 MOTHERS
are realising to-day that a handy pot of Zam-Buk is a priceless boon.
Zam-Buk is not only world-famous for its healing, soothing and
germ-destroying qualities, but gives us for the first time an ever ready
“first-aid,” uniting simplicity, effectiveness and safety.
Simplicity,
Because it requires no previous preparation, needs
simply to be taken out of the pot with the clean
finger-end and rubbed gently over the cut or sore, when the fine herbal juices
sink into the tiny pores in the skin and “get at” the harmful germs that
are lodging in the under-tissues.
Effedive.
Because Zain-Buk is prepared by methods entirely dif-
ferent and ahead of mere oint-
ments and cheap salves or “creams.” Because it
is composed of pure gums, juices and aromatic oils,
scientifically refined and skillully combined. The
uniform success of Zam-Buk shows that the ideally
effective balm has been discovered at last.
Safe
Because Zam-Buk’s active constituents con-
tain no trace of rancid animal fat, mineral
irritant or poisonous acid. Because Zam-Buk achieves its
exceptional results by methods quite different from fatty
ointments and cheap salves. Zam-Buk is
so pure that it suits the frailest invalid and
the youngest babe. It is the one and only
Zam-Buk, as sold in sealed packages.
Daily mishaps make Zam-Buk a
daily need; and its instant applica-
tion on cut, sprain or sore is a sure
safeguard against blood-poisoning
germ diseases and all the common
complications of accidents and skin
diseases.
A MOTHER PRAISES ZAM-BUK
Mrs. S. M. Burgess, of 34Cambridge
Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says:—“For
such injuries as cuts, abrasions and
festered sores, and for children who are
always falling and hurting themselves,
Zam-Buk should be kept on a handy shelf
n every home. For chapped hands and
tracked lips caused by the bitter, winter
/vinds, Zam-Buk is a splendid remedy.”
Zam-Buk Is invaluable
for eczema, ringworm,
chapped hands, chil-
blains. cold sores, piles,
and heals cuts, burns,
bruises, scalds and
scratches. Sold by all
chemists and stores at
1/6 and 3 6 per pot (con-
tains 3 times 1/6).
“ RUB IT IN.**
v r
' » v:
t . * <
r
I
B
noahimmoilorfat
1
*o*
DK
*2
Mig
tr*
wc
0»
FOR
STC
CUTS
. BRUISES’,
SORES' BURNS /
'PILES-PIMPLES • ECZEMA"!
„ -
■CS* s, "mIHEUMATISM-SCIATICA-BAD LEGS/!
HEADS & BACKS-CHAPPED HAHD Sfa
UNEQUALLED ro» CRICKETERS.
CyCL fS TS. FOOTBAL LPC AyE AS y
vs SPORTSMEN GENERALLY
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day*
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
have YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your sßin and
complexion. If* on tHe other Hand
—that is, on both Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best that possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s Health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Renaissance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I LITTLE reck of monstrous shapes that
flee
Out of the elder shadows, misty pale,
That wreathed the dawn of Hellas. Some
I know
Would drag a hairy satyr by the tail
Back from the scented woods of Arcady,
To mock a land where younger breezes
blow.
Somewhere in fresher airs old echoes cease;
The drowning ecstasy of clearer reeds,
Filled with the magic of a sweeter breath,
Wakes cycles of new wonder. Memory
bleeds
Luxurious, drop by drop. The living Greece
Sings on \yhile Hellas lies forlorn in death.
The swart Themistocles within our gate,
Or he who stirs in Macedon or Crete
The East to bloody revel, is no kin
To him of Salamis beneath whose feet
All Asia fell to silence. Faded state
Dead Hellas keeps amid sad ghosts and
thin.
Greece lives not in her scroll of mighty song,
Her marbles speak the language of white
death,
And all the wonder of her work and deed
Is but a memory of faint sweet breath
Borne over thymy gardens, conquered long
By riotous change and the forgetful weed.
Her gods are made the mockery of truth,
Iler dreams are trampled in the dust of
years,
Her fancy’s bowl of young imaginings
Is poured to waste like Ariadne’s tears
That could not win a wandering love to
ruth,
Or stay his flying vessel’s corded wings.
A vast wind swells the canvas of the world,
The ship of Man by cape and island new
Furrows uncharted oceans of the morn ;
Spent lustres of the cold Aegean blue
Are but as unregarded mists upcurled
Over dim shallows that the shipmen scorn.
Hellas is dead! Call through the clearer
air
Old names that lingered in the reverent
mouth
Of pious peoples. Beat clear wings of
thought
Against the blue airs of the summer
south.
Athene’s robe and Cytherea’s hair
In nets of sun and dream no more are
caught.
Dust is the body of the old del’~ht
That Hellas wore ; nor any i. zing song
Shall quicken those grey ashes from their
peace
Of utter quiet; but erect and strong
Walks in the dew-time of our morning
white
The living spirit of eternal Greece.
For though the body be but sad decay,
A splendid soul looks out from Grecian
eyes,
Unclouded by the ages. Never breaks
The world-light in the glowing morning
skies,
But through the promise of the pearly way
The deathless Greek within our wonder
wakes.
It is not his to linger with dead things,
To dwell within the hollow Spartan vale,
To make faint sport with gods whose lucent
feet
The ravished woods of Thessaly bewail;
Clear from his eager path of hope he flings
The poisonous past that calls so syren
sweet.
All that is new and fair is Grecian strong.
Beauty is strength. The elder splendors
start
In the tumultuous throb of younger days.
The white Greek glory in Australia’s
heart
Tunes a wide continent to growing song,
With morning melody in all the ways.
Beneath our feet are set the necks of kings,
We watch the night-long sweep of wider
stars.
The noon of warmer suns. Be ours to
scorn
The bondage of thought’s golden prison
bars.
Till all the south, with beats of thunderous
wings,
Proclaims the majesty of Greece re-born.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Laverton on the Edge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ac<t !1 • e u , ,
SLOW clanking of bogey-wheels over
rail joints, a slight oscillation as
we cross on to a side track, a low
~.t , , a . .
grinding of brakes, and we are at the ter-
minus—at the end of 29 hours continuous
run from the seaboard.
We step out under the stars and look
round. How astoundingly still and clear the
. , , . , ~ ~
night is! Although it is yet two months off
winter time, we upend our coat collars and
button lapels under our chins, for the night
air on the great Inland Plateau is keen.
4 , nft ni{r ht nnp dorious blaze of stars
Alott, the mgnt is one gionous maze or stars
—such a profuse luxuriance of cosmic lights
as one only beholds from the great deserts
when the air is dry and rare, or from the
peaks of mountains where perennial frost is
b
iiuug. , c
Ironstone pebbles crunch under our feet
in the open spaces, and the taint acrid smell
of camels is borne on the night air, while all
the waste places are filled with low, grey
mulga bushes. This then, is the Bound of
Perdition; the Edge of the Big White Patch
—the blank space on the map of Australia;
the place where explorers start from!
Some of us, it seems, are predestined to
ooum ’ , Things Trv how we
live on the Bordei ot lh gs. y wwe
will to gain a place, Civilisation has no room
for us at her bosom, and we find ourselves,
sooner or later, shanghaied back to the old
address:—
Never Never,
Behind the Hot Wind.
I came from behind Camooweal, and at
Fremantle I last saw the sea. I called at
all the seats of civilisation on my way —
Queen-street, Brisbane ; Pitt-street, Sydney ;
Collins-street, Melbourne; King William-
street, Adelaide; Hay-street, Perth. I wore
out a lot of temper and the rubber-heels off
my best boots chasing after little tin-pot
people, who had nothing worth having when
I caught them. I laid down the law, argued
the point, told lies, and otherwise occupied
the little tin-pot people’s time with the usual
object and the same result. Then I dis-
covered an order to Laverton- —to Laverton,
’way out near the edge of Gibson’s Desert,
600 miles towards the heart of the continent.
And I remarked, “Hoo-blanky-ray!”
Then I thought over things—thought
whether I ought to be sorry because I came;
considered whether I should have taken the
little tin-pot people’s advice and stayed back
in, where the narrowness and the popula-
tion are. Then I wondered whether, after
all, I was not really at home —back at the
old address; back where the camels come
and go, and the ways are very long; back
where the rims of earth are clear-cut, blue,
and wide; back where the lawless desert
wind is clean and sweet; where the atmo-
sphere is of monstrous height and width,
and where the hearts of men are very big
and strong ! And who’s ever sorry to be at
home? A score of tough wind-tanned men
who belong to the wilderness, north and east,
are here. I laugh to think of the little tin-
pot people whose stuffy little offices I fre-
quented a while back in Melbourne and
Perth ; and I open my lungs to the breeze
of the desert. . . .
If anyone ever feels. cramped for breath,
let him come out by Laverton. This is the
biggest blanky country on earth! A man
can expand his chest here without injury or
annoyance to his neighbor. It is 700 miles
‘to the South Australian border, and 700 to
the sea, south or west. Beyond the border
it is 400 miles to the nearest civilisation,
along the O.T. line. No one lives east of
here for 1000 miles. This is the Limit, the
Border of Things, the Dead Finish.
East of here a few miles, the Desert takes
a hand —sand and spinifex to the uttermost
horizon. The sun comes up out of it as out
of an ocean, and lean, grey camels are the
only things that can face it.
But the air—the keen, dry desert air!
Who remembers cool mornings among the
sandhills out from Birdsville? The chilly,
dewless air! Here, too, it is the _ sweet
invisible wine that intoxicates you in the
dawn. ’Tis years since rain fell in this
place, and where there is no moisture there
is no haze. The unaided _ eye can see half
round the world. All horizons are at least
two million miles away, and are always
clear-cut and blue.
Here we are at the edge of the Mulga, the
Westralian mulga that runs in vast belts
across the State on nearly the same parallel
as the mulga of Wanaaring. The railway,
like a gossamer-thread stretched across crea-
tion, carries for 100 miles through waste
lands to Kalgoorlie ; and after you’ve crossed
200 more miles of wilderness to Laverton.
They tell you the desert proper doesn’t begin
till you’re east of Burtville, 20 miles. North-
ward from Broad Arrow you strike the
mulga, and it is with you to the Erlistoun —
300 miles. It is the Beal Mac Kay. Clay-
pan and sandhill sweep past. Here, a bit of
Lower Warrego scenery; there, a belt like
the Goonerie Sandhills. A strip of claypan,
fringed with sandal-wood and punty-bush—
it might be the channel of the Cuttaburra
that flashes past, and you strain your eyes
for a glimpse of a station roof. “This coun-
try might be under sheep,” you think. But
it isn’t. It holds nothing wrapped in wool.
This is the great Goldfields Railway of W.A.,
and it serves only Krupp mills and stamper
batteries.
Presently we shoot across the arm of a
salt lake, dive through another belt of
mulga, and pull up at a tin hut on a small
blue-bush plain.
“What place is this?” asks a passenger.
“Tinchelooka,” I say at random; and the
passenger reclines back in the corner and
opens his time-table to look up a mail-change
in the mulga country back of Bourke, to see
how far we are from Laverton.
Two score or so low white-roofed buildings
sprawl at the end of 600 miles of thin steel
track. It is a neat-looking place, with
symptoms of newness still about it. It re-
minds one of Cloncurry in the old days, be-
fore the copper fever and the railway.
Black ironstone ridges and sombre grey
mulga flats alternate in monotonous undu-
lations to the remote horizons, and every-
where the mulga bushes are sere, on account
of the long drought. Here and there at
wide intervals a low rocky hill runs up to a
trig, station, and is designated a mountain,
though the cairn of stones on its summit in-
creases its height to an appreciable extent.
The crest of the ridge on which the white
roofs sprawl looks out on a wilderness of
amazing width. The scene is just one vast
eternity of earth and sky—-of earth stretch-
ing out unbroken like the floor of an ocean,
arched by a canopy of cloudless blue. Here
distance is lost. Computation by mere miles
is vain. Out there, just beyond the south-
east rim of earth, lies Port Augusta, a mere
1100 miles away. Eleven hundred miles of
just earth and atmosphere! (Those stuffy
little offices in Pitt-street make me laugh
again.) Then, a little further to the north,
but just over the same clear-cut rim, lies
Longreach. It seems a mere step or two
across to Longreach; and though it is the
best part of 2000 miles, the desert air is
so clear and rare, it seems as though a rifle
bullet might easily carry into Queensland.
There is really nothing to prevent people
going from here to Queensland —no impass-
able barriers of mountains, no unfordable
rivers; nothing but atmosphere— whips of
atmosphere !
Far out, a camel, shuffling its great padded
feet on the soft warm sand, grumbling lowly
to itself amidst the solitude, yet swaying
ever forward to the rhythmic creaking of its
saddle, mounts slowly to the crest of the
ridge that was the rim of earth, and there
its rider looks back. A tiny spangle of
snowy dots, set in the vast environment of
sombre, sweeping earth, undimmed by haze
in the keen, dry air, but showing clear-cut
amid the greyness of the mulga wastes, and
relieved with boldness against the grim
ironstone ridge on which it stands; there
in the open waste, under the monstrous
dome of sky, glistening cleanly in the noon-
tide sun, lies Laverton —Laverton on the
Edge.
MALLRAPOONIE.


The
V: * V '
me
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
fgj
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
I ~ lt uses chci ap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Srake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
TtjrouHh an error (his
uho an crrt
, d 9«s n.o» show
'he- Automm
attachment
Latest Standard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
MADE in 31b. and 61b. weights ; in sizes 2g" x 5&", and 4" X 6J" •
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively.
It has a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move-a gbttenng mirror finish-and, over all, our guarantee.
Inoroughly efficient for both hgh,t and heavy work : simple, yet
strong clean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 301 b.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
2 •
& CO., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
m
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARHE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
fgj
mg o
Borated Golden teal
Compound
; A safe and simple remedy for"
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
\ Treatise with jacb bottle
or mailed on request.
, Ti* Ena* Chemical Co.
Ondnsaii, Ohio,
US. A,
if
FRIEND” OH,
ENGINE
gj
2 horsepower
“ Farmer’s Friend ’»
Portable.
enqineFwork
ON OIL OR GAS.
Guaranteed
2 Years.
Also Wood-
Sawing, Chaffcutting
and Pumping Outfits,
4,8, or 12-h.p. complete,
Portable or Stationary.
2-h.p. Stationary, £25. —
£lO deposit, and £1 month.
1/5/-
1/10/-
22
2 5/-
28
3/-/-
15-
1 19/-
20
2/-/-
32
3/-/-
43
4/10/- „
ON TERMS
All complete, with Tanks and
Pipes, f.o.b. Sydney. You have
no fitting's to buy—everything
is supplied by us.
Larger Engines at propor-
tionate Prices and Terms.
Write for Catalogue.
fgj
49 York Street, SYDNEY
339 Collins St., MELBOURNE
•NOlinVS3dd V sv
snw swwaaafl
3W±
N
VCs
rrrv x
v v _ O
o
o-
-1
I
33
>/<v
Sill
?y.
m
3
y
v,->
jNounvs
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. frld. McWILLIAM. Manager.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
gjgfj
gj gj
gj gj
gĵg
The above clearly shows Results from a
of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions.-* These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. AVhen I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. 1 had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This led him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a of the
compound prepared. 1 did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to sav it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Out out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. Rl4, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
mackT ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Willans & Robinson, Limited,
For . . .
Electrical Generators,
Blowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
jg
For.
High
Pressure
and
Mixed Pressure Steam.
AUSTRALIAN
AGRNCY :
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. t 3
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
the original and
genuine balata.
TRADu
13
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As d guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
TANGYE Oil Engines
Copy of Testimonial received from Mr. P. Squire,
Cowra, N.S.W. :
“ With the ‘ Tangye ’ Oil Engine and Wol§eley
Sheep Shearing Machines, erected for me this
year, I have gone through the shearing without
a hitch.
“ I am more thai) pleased with the Engine and
Machines and the erection of same. ”
For Shearing Sheds.
ĝj
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
IS THE WORLD’S BEST.
Competition has only tended to emphasise this well-known fact, as
improvements which have recently been added to the machine have
established beyond any doubt the right to claim for the “ Wolseley ”
the title—
THE PREMIER SHEARING MACHINE.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND CATALOGUES.
Clayton and Shiittleworth
1 iMtomMBi in» f WI»MEaaSaMWMyiMiTi aWWWBBaMIBBMBWMM—M
Portable Steam Engine
is a particularly well-built and Substantial
Engine, and SPECIALLY SUITED TO
AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS. Numbers in
use in N.S.W. driving Pumps, Circular
Saws, Chaffcutters, etc.
j For Shearing Sheds.
ĵg
jĝj
gj
gj
ĵg
ĝjgj
ĵg
Sole
Agents,
j
IN
mm
ĵg
Lathes, Shapers, Milling'
Machines, Radial, Up-
right and Sensitive
Drills, Punching and
Shearing Machines,
Power Hammers.
Fay and Egan Planers, Molders, Matchers, Saw Benches ;
Simonds’ Planer Knives; Circular and Band l Saws;
Supplies: Engineer’s, WoodworKer’s and Sawmiller’s.
m
P.
V:
•I
--V,
fgj
WE STOCK
Radial Arm
Benches,
Continuous Roller
Feed,
Rising and Falling.
Three and Four
Cutter Moulding
Machines.
fgj
AGENCIES:
Lodge and Shipley
Lathes,
Seneca Falls “Star”
Lathes,
John Stirk’s High
Speed Lathes,
Mark Flather’s
\Shapers,
Crescent Wood=
working Machines,
National Screwing
Machines,
Jessop’s Drills and
Steel.
KING
ME
fgj
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street,
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DKDTII
St. George’s Terrace, rt«l 11.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
f
m
Complete Design
and Equipment
PETRIT
Acknowledged by all Leading Architects to be the most successful material for Roofs, Floors,
Walls and Ceilings, Ships’ Decks, Baths, Tramcar Floors, Freezing Chambers, Hospital and
Asylum Floors, Fire=proof Stairs, Pavements, Roadways, Leaking Tanks, Mantelpieces,
Overmantels, Skating Rink Floors and thousands of other purposes.
Sole Manufacturers and Patentees— PETRITE LIMITED, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRAND
fgj
SHOES, DIES - BATTERY SCREENS
(FORGED STEEL) (WOVEN or PUNCHED STEEL)
CAMS TAPPETS -HEADS
digs, Classifiers, Concentrators, Ore Screens,
“Cam” Canvas, Agitators, Electro Plates, Oils.
I
fjg
263 George Street, Sydney
525 Collins Street, Melbourne
ĝj
