

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION- D EWAR’S WHISKY
R. O. WATKINS <s& GO.,
107 Kent street:, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
Herbert’s
Ball-Bearing Drills.
Easy and Quick Drilling.
si>i> Kent Street, Sydney, ,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent; C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART.
»|SS "
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
"Take it back,
I must have-
PincApplc Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
J\
HANSENS
h
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals .
dffa,
axis. ' : '^y(rft/MtXl/ lOcilSO/u co tits ■feat'.
tf&u, do/C fo*is (zJojU&o y&u, u/iIL funds if er€%^«y£e/te^
*
V .V a* // A rJ 1
\
N
S
4
6
K
K
♦
<o
&
o
Money advanced upon ail Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORFS
ĥ
ħ
is the Queen of jJI Cocoas
|Aroma,Strerigtli£-PuritK
MALTHOID ROOFING
The Roofing every sensible man needs.
The Roofing that every building needs.
Th& Roofing that nothing can affect.
The Roofing that we would like to tell you more about.
SEND FOR BOOKLET.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.—D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LASER.
OLD HIGHLAND MALT.
Whisky of the Ag'e.
The Whisky of 15he Ag'e.
The Whisky of AGE. *
HELIDON SPA WATER
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water $
Ist—RantH akntfltinn. InA—VirAA r<rr«Uii™
DEWHURST g HALLORAN. Ltd.,
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 1625.]
[Thursday, April 6, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GOOD BOORS ARE PROFITABLE INVESTMENTS,
RETURNING MANY TIMES
THEIR INITIAL. COST.
5000 TECHNICAL BOOKS.
Send for our List of Technical Books, specially prepared for Home Study. We have large stocks of Books
on all Technical Subjects, and can supply the Elementary Handbook for the Amateur or the Text Book
for the Professional.
JUST PUBLISHED: A NEW USTOF ACCOUNTANCY
A List of the Best Books on Any Subject Sent per Return Mail .
ROBERTSON'S, 238 PITT STREET (OPPOSITE SYDNEY SCHOOL OF ARTS).
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHQL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION $>F CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dig.
seeted Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by a.l Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 10 York Street, SYDNEY. Agencies in
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
The RED PAGE
Billy —Paul Methven (Sydney Book Club).
Billy, of course, is a girl, strong, tall,
and fond of golf. The Hon. Jerry is a
feeble little man with an interest in
fossils. Both regard matrimony with
horror, and are inspired to enter into a
formal marriage contract, for offensive
and defensive purposes. Two difficult
characters are steered cleverly through
an entertaining comedy, in which there
is a capital divorce trial. . . . This is
Methven’s second book, and he looks
like a good trier for a place next to
W. J. Locke.
The Lass with the Delicate Air —A. Goring
Thomas (Sydney Book Club). A bright
and witty yarn by an ex-Sydney man.
The Hicks family and Mr. Goe, the ar-
tist, who said proudly ,“I am the new
movement,” are worth knowing. *
The Window at the White Cat —Mary Rine-
hart (Geo. Robertson and Co.). Mur-
der and disappearances neatly wrapped
in mystery, which is unfolded without
the aid of the usual detective. Miss
Rinehart employs Munsterberg’s psy-
choteraphy in order to extract evidence
from an unwilling witness. Cleveland
Moffit did it more effectively in Through
the Wall.
A Woman on the Threshold —Maude Little
(Chatto and Windus). A woman who
wants to write a novel is stopped by her
stodgy husband ; later on her son shows
the characteristics of her hero, and acts
the unwritten story. There are some
unusual characters in this readable
book. The story is told in episodes; the
time and place of each being given at
the chapter head —which is a conveni-
encei
The Best Australian Prose
Some time ago a Red Page competition
brought out many good lines of Australian
verse not generally known before, and illus-
trated the quality of the authors fairly well.
It may not be easy to apply this method of
exhibiting “form at a glance” to our prose
writers; but it is worth trying.
Will readers look up their Australian
books and magazines, and send in the prose
passages (not more than 200 words each)
which they consider the best in style. Aus-
tralian authors are taken to be those natives
or immigrants who have written in Australia
about anything. Thus Marcus Clarke,
born in England, is an Australian author;
Gilbert Murray, born in Sydney, is not.
A prize of £1 Is. is offered to the first
sender of the prose passage adjudged best
by the editor of this page. Last date for re-
ceipt—3lst May.
—o -
IRONY.
; I called on Fame: the office boy
Said : “Please send in your name.”
“Indeed I have none,” I replied;
< ' And so, away I came.
I called on Wealth: I Was required
To pay an entrance fee:
“I have no money,” I replied,
And left immediately.
I called on Love: it was decreed
That first I show my heart.
“She has it,” was all that I could say:
And then I did depart.
O. Henry (The American Magazine) .
O. Henry
Since the death of O. Henry, in the middle
of last year, two new collections of his
stories have been published— Strictly Busi-
ness and Whirligigs (G. Robertson and
Go.). “An Adventure in Neurasthenia,”
the last story he wrote, is to be issued as
Let Me Feel Your Pulse ; and some stragglers
may be rounded up for yet another volume.
Of the 11 books so far published, all are
collections of short stories save the first,
Cabbages and Kings, and that is really a
number of episodes loosely strung together.
Their quality is very even; in fact, to those
who read only for amusement, the O.
Henry stories are like beer—and, as you
know, there is no bad beer.
This large amount of work was written in
a small number of years, for he did not
begin until late, and he died at 43. Born
William Sidney Porter, in North Carolina,
he spent his youth in Texas, and, later, be
knocked about in Central America and New
Orleans. He tried various occupations, in-
cluding journalism, qntil the editor of
Ainslee’s Magazine invited him to New
York with an offer of 1200 dollars for 12
short stories. Eventually he got as much
as 1000 dollars per story paid in advance.
There was no inducement to do anything
better, though he said that he wanted to
write a real novel, which would startle by
telling the naked truth. If he had written
such a book, the chances are that it would
fall flat after the hundreds of startles he
had got into his short stories.
The unexpected ending was the feature
of his plots, as it is of most detective and
mystery stories. The O. Henry yarn closed
so often with a snap that the unexpected
ending came to be expected. Only in a
few cases did he depart from the formula,
and it required no little invention to vary
the surprise. Like Poe, he built his story
with that end in view; but when Poe had
exploited one kind of story he passed to an-
other. O. Henry, like the cat in the adage,
had virtually only one trick, which paid
better than nine of other men’s. Paid in
cash, of course, for enduring fame was not
to be expected. Nevertheless, it is no mean
thing to have amused, as O. Henry has
done, so many readers of his own genera-
tion.
In reaching his end he made use of slang,
incongruities of speech which are generally
humorous, and the boisterous perversions
usually associated with the stage Irish-
man. Here is a representative passage
from his first book:
“Monseer,” says I, “I don’t know where
your country is, but me heart bleeds for it.
The heart of a Clancy was never deaf to
the sight of an oppressed people. The
family is filibustered by birth, and for-
eigners by trade. If you can use James
Clancy’s arm and his blood in denudin’ your
shores of the tyrant’s yoke, they’re yours to
command.”
These are random examples of plain English
translated into O. Henry:
“Segregate yourself from your pseudo-
equine quadruped and come inside.”
“Mrs. Brown,” says I, “I am going to ex-
tend my feet alternately one after another
in such a manner and direction that this
tenement will recede from me in the quickest
possible time.”
“For 15 years I was the ruling power
behind old Sambo Benavides, the Royal
High Thumbscrew of the republic. You’ve
seen his picture in the papers—a mushy
black man, with whiskers like the notes on
a Swiss music box cylinder, and a scroll
in his right hand like the one they write
births on in the family Bible. Well, that
chocolate potentate used to be the biggest
item of interest anywhere between the color
line and the parallels of latitude. It was
three throws, horses, whether he was to wind
up in the Hall of Fame or the Bureau of
Combustibles. He’d have been sure called
the Roosevelt of the Southern Continent if
it hadn’t been that Grover Cleveland was
President at the time.”
But, besides the visible mechanism, and
the easily acquired style, there is the epi-
sode, the adventure, the romance—which is
the body of the story. O. Henry got that
from life. He mixed with all sorts of men
in many conditions of life, and he gathered
material from them all. “So long as a
story is true to human nature,” he'’ said,
“all you need to do to make it fit any town
is to change the local cdlor. You can make
all the characters of the ‘Arabian Nights’
parade up and down Broadway.” And of
the same Broadway he said, in another
place—“ The third Jungle Book was there
waiting for somebody to put covers on it.”
O. Henry’s reflections on life were not
very deep and serious; but he scattered a lot
of horse sense in his fun:
“When ye run down politeness ye take
the mortar from between the bricks of the
foundations of society.”
“The key to Liberty is not in the hands
of License, but Convention holds it.
Comity has a toll gate at which you must
pay, or you may not enter the land of free-
dom.”
“I have found out the biggest hazard in
the world, a game of chance that never is
concluded, a venture that may end in the
highest heaven or the blackest pit. It will
keep a man on edge until the clods fall on
his coffin, because he will never know—-not
until his last day, and not then will he
know. It is a voyage, without a rudder or
compass, and you must be captain and crew,
and keep watch yourself day and night, with
no one to relieve you. I have found the
Venture ... I married her yesterday at
noon.”
“Let’s have the moral first and be done
with it. All is not gold that glitters, but
it is a wise child that keeps the stopper
on the bottle of testing acid.”
The moral of many of his stories, such as
“The Cop and the Anthem,” was that the
Obvious is often missed. The moral of O.
Henry’s success is that the story-writer may
find romance and advepture in his own
neighborhood if he has eyes to see it.
His quality is that of smart journalism,
which appeals to a particular audience for
a limited time. It never equalled that of
Maupassant at his best, nor are his stories
to be compared with those of Balzac, Steven-
son and Kipling. Amongst living writers
in America Ambrose Bierce gave a deeper
thrill with his tricky endings, and Leonard
Merrick has a gayer, more spontaneous hu-
mor. On his own level, however, O. Henry
was supreme.
Hermann Sudermann
Very little of the literature of modern
Germany has any international value. The
influence of Nietzsche has stimulated a num-
ber of poets who have thrilled home readers
with strange weird notes; but none has found
a translator capable of carrying him across
the border alive. In drama, though there
does not seem to be much imaginative
beauty, there is power, and here Sudermann
is still supreme, with Hauptmann, Schnitzler
and Wedekind as his only serious rivals.
German novels are comparatively unimpor-
tant, and Sudermann’s triumph in this de-
partment was easily gained. He is the only
German author with a foreign reputation of
any size.
Sudermann’s fame abroad is mainly due
to “Magda,” which caught the Ibsen tide
before it turned, and went the round of the
world’s theatres. Other dramas —“John
the Baptist,” “Three Heron Feathers,” “Fires
of St. John” and “The Joy of Living”—have
been translated, and, occasionally, acted.
They are, however, unsuited for the average
British audience.
Neither in drama or novel does Sudermann
seek to amuse. His satire is not light, but
deep. His main concern, however, is to por-
tray life. He has plumbed many depths and
recesses in human nature, and the psycholo-
gical material with which his characters are
built is fuller than usual in English fiction.
He presents phases of life as completely as
he sees them; wit’ out reticence, but without
any of the sickly zest in erotic sensations
which yellows the pages of D’Annunzio, and
without the specialism in filth which de-
stroys some of Zola’s work.
Dame Care, The Undying Past and Re-
gina, appeared in English some years ago.
They are rather sombre studies—the first
of bashfulness, the others of heredity—
treated with masterful directness and vigor.
The Song of Songs (Das Hohe Lied) is
much longer than its predecessors, and more
varied in interest. Published in Germany
in 1908, a translation by Thomas Seltzer ap-
peared in America in the following year, and
edition after edition was demanded there
before John Lane printed it in England.
The British Libraries Committee promptly
banned it, together with the harmless Cottage
Pie of Neil Lyons.
It may be said at the outset that The
Song of Songs is not a novel for crippled or
feeble intellects. It does not belong to the
order of buttered muffin fiction, which is
served up for maidens’ breakfasts, nor is it
a seasoned kickshaw for the rouri’s lunch.
It is a full meal for a healthy adult —or, to
the food simile—a story of a repre-
sentative woman told dispassionately.
Lilly Czepanek is the daughter of a music
master who disappeared in her fourteenth
year, leaving, besides some debts, the score of
an oratorio—-“ The Song of Songs.” She started
her life badly, through no fault of her own,
and fell, rose again, and again fell.
At length she met one man who awakened
the best in her, and for him she wished to
slough her old self, and live a new life. He,
a student, could not marry without the con-
sent of his uncle, and this tough old warrior
visits Berlin to inspect the bride-elect.
The scene in which the uncle gets Lilly to
betray her past unconsciously, is a remark-
able one. Next day he tells her that the
marriage is not to be.
“Because he is a rising man. He wants
to climb to the top. He is still blessed with
faith, and you no longer possess it. . . I’m
not laying so'much stress on last night’s
eye-opener. It’s not the appearance of a
coastline that counts. It doesn’t matter
whether it’s covered with palms or sand.
The important thing is the interior. And
in the interior I see steppes—scorched, waste
land—no birds flying across it —a desert
where confidence will not strike root. Crawl
into whatever shelter life offers you, little
one. Cling to those who brought you to
the pass you are in. But let the boy go.”
Suicide is the natural end for Lilly. She
decides to throw herself into the river, and
takes with her the score of “The Song of
Songs,” to which she had clung all through
her checkered career.
“Now one. leap and the thing was done.
‘Yes, I’ll do it, I’ll do it,’ a voice within her
called. But she had to send ‘The Song of
Songs’ ahead. It would be a hindrance to
her as she climbed over (the railing). She
threw it —a bit of white flitted by-—a
splash below —sharp and distinct, which
made her tingle all over like a slap in the
face.
“When she heard the sound, she knew
she would never do it.”
She didn’t, and the edd comes with a rush
—unexpectedly cynical.
If any adult is any the worse for reading
a full-bodied book of this kind, which cuts
across a big section of life in a modern capi-
tal, then he or she is past curing.
The Chronicle of Turner
“It’s an historical work,” said the book-
seller to Sylvestre Bonnard in Anatole
France’s story.
“In that case,” replied Bonnard, “it would
be very wearisome to read, for historical
works that do not lie are exceedingly dull.”
The same objection might be offered to
The First Decade of the Australian Com-
monwealth, by H. Gyles Turner (Mason,
Firth and McCutcheon). It does not pre-
tend to be anything more than a chronicle,
and the author has tried to make it a com-
plete one. His bias against the Labor
party, however, is manifest from the begin-
ning, and his account of events is somewhat
discolored by Tory prejudice.
The members of the respective Ministries
are summed up from that point of view. J.
0. Watson receives praise for his moderation
and good temper; Hughes appears something
like a Robespierre; Deakin has disappointed
the author; Bruce Smith is his only hero.
Bruce the Mirabeau of a decaying pluto-
cracy ! Smith the last hope of Anti-Sosh! 1
One can imagine how he will shine in the
pages of the Japanese Carlyle of the future.
How eloquent his-last words will be! And
a vision comes of Bruce Smith sitting on
the ruins of North Sydney bridge, shaking
his large wise head, and saying—"If they
had only listened to me!” j
H. G. Turner seems to favor the olid gag
that history is philosophy teaching by ex-
amples. A truer phrase for chronicles such
as this is that of Coleridge—history is
like the stern-lights of a ship, it illumines
only the path that has been travelled. In
this case the light shines through a pea-green
glass.
♦
The velvety-eyed heroine of The Black
Pearl, by Noel Aimir (G. Robertson and
Co.) is a not-too-Frencb French girl, who
corned to Australia and conquers at first
sight. No. lis a parson, and they are
engaged ; but, because the gay Parisienne
cannot swallow the whole 39 articles at
once, he, with fine abandon, sacrifices his
love and goes to the leper settlement at
Molokai. No. 2 is the reincarnation of a
Rajah, a masterful chap, but, unfortunately,
already married. That does riot matter to
him, and he carries the little fortress by
storm. The situation is interesting when
Theosophy comes in to save it, and the spas-
modic story closes in a blaze of the seven
mystic colors, with the Divine Triangle ap-
proaching.
♦ ,
“V.V.V.” supplies information: —
Duckworth issues a translation in slightly
archaic English of La Premiere Tentation
de St. Antoine by Flaubert, first edited
from the MSS. (1849-56) by Louis Bertrand
(Paris, Fosquelb, 1908). Though scorned
by Bouilhet and Du Camp, this first form
was loved by the author, and only the
Bovary prosecution prevented its publica-
tion in 1856. As literature the book is of
secondary interest, compared with the 1874
version, but valuable for the light it throws
on Flaubert himself. Unlike the later
form, it is subjective and personal, diffuse
in style, and the dramatic element is more
pronounced. The gorgeous language, that
in places has a cadence as of verse, is very
effective in scenes like that where Simon
Magus and Helen describe her successive
transformations, or where Apollonius tells
of his many wanderings. The misguided
English editor omits a great part of Ber-
trand’s useful introduction, and includes a
negligible preface by Sir G. Maspero.
* * * *
Flammarion begins a new Collection ll-
lusi. se (95 c., or bound fr. 1.50), with Tata,
by Jean Aicard, and Gyp’s Le Friquet.
» •* * #
Gaston Leroux has a talent for the
tangled detective story, unsolved till the
last page. He now writes Le fan-
tome de VOpira, a long-winded mystery
of an invisible presence, unrelieved by his
crude attempts at humor. Meantime what
is happening to Rouletabille, who two years
ago went to Russia on secret service, after
his Yellow Room and Lady in Black Adven-
tures. Leroux’s earlier book, La double vie
de M. Longuet, now available in a six-
penny edition, is only an indifferent shocker.
The popularity of Lindsay Gordon’s verses must
be growing abroad, as one often sees quotations
from them in books and newspapers. Dorothea
Conyers in The Strayings of Sandy (1907) prints
bits of Gordon at the head of nearly every chap-
ter, So does Louise Gerard in The Golden Centipede
(1910)—without adding the poet’s name. “Life
is mostly froth and bubble,’’ etc., was quoted by
one of the characters in Galsworthy’s A Country
House as his rule of life. Lines from Gordon also
adorn the chapter heads of Dolf Wyllarde’s The
Riding Mastei —which, by the way, is a readable
yarn,
* * * *
London Truth took a vote of its readers,
to ascertain the most popular novels of
1910. The result is surprisingly good:
I. The Dop Doctor —Dehan.
2. Clayhanger —Bennett.
3. Howard's End —Forster.
4. Let the Roof Fall In —Danby.
* * » •
E.D. —Yes, it should have been Man’s
Place in the Umverse. The error was prob-
ably due to the fact that the memory of
Huxley’s Man’s Place in Nature was so
much stronger than that of Wallace’s book.
THE GRAY NORNS.
What do you bring in your sacks, Gray Girls?
“Sea-sand and sorrow.”
What is that mist that behind you whirls?
“The souls of to-morrow.”
What are those shapes on the windy coasts?
“The dead souls going.”
And what are those loads on the backs of the
.ghosts?
“The seed of their sowing!”
Edwin Markham (in Vedenta Magazine) .


w a
SE3
\
A
/ .
W-v MS
r
Si- •
*r
4
m
603
863
851
W- v Jtodeis
•RNS’
-WaricitS'Jo w ffiic.es
The Vogue of The Tailor-Made.
No. 603—Tailor-made Coat and Skirt Costume of fine West of England
Coating Serge, in Navy only ; Coat relieved Panel effects at back and
sides . with Silk Braid, edges bound Braid, self Revers, lined Sky
Silk Polonaise, Skirt trimmed Braid to match ... ... ... ... 87/6
Also Similar Style, but no. braiding, No. 846, lined Stripe Italian, Black
or Navy ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 69/6
No. 863 —Smartly Cut Coat and Skirt Costume of Navy Cheviot Suit-
ing ; Coat has six-inch empiecement at back and hips prettily braided in
Black Russia Braid, lined Striped Italian, plain new' cut Skirt in Navy
and Black ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 52/6
Similar Style, No. 748, unlined, trimmed four rows Black Silk Braiding
on hips, cuffs and collar ... ... .... ... ... 27/6
No. 851— Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume of fine all-wool Navy Serge
Coating, smartly trimmed plain Silk and Fancy Braids, lined Striped
Sateen, new’shape Skirt, Panel back and front ... ... ... ... 59/6
No. 635 —Coat, and Skirt Costume of Melton Face Cloth, Panel back and
front, trimmed Braid on hips, Sailor Collar of Black Velvet, finished flat
Silk Braids, lined Striped Sateen, well cut Skirt, trimmed Braid to
match. Colors: Saxe, Navy, Brown, Prunelle ... ... ... ... 37/6
No. 1228 —Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, of plain Habit Cloth, Coat
has Panel Back, and is smartly trimmed Black Satin Collar, relieved
Braid Motifs, also on cuffs and hips, w'ell-cut Skirt. Colors : Brown,
Navy, Grey, Black ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 32/6
Similar style, No. 137, Satin Collar, without Braid, made of durable
Twill Melton, in Navy 0n1y... ... ... ... ... ... ... 29/6
No. 972 —Venetian Face Cloth Coat and Skirt Costume, smartly
tailored, Belt effect back and side, new’ shape Revers of plain Black
Satin, lined Cream Silk Polonaise, w'ell cut Skirt. Colors : Wine, Sage
Green, Amethyst, Peacock Blue ... ... ... ... ... ... 67/6
No. 9341 —Serviceable Blouse, of Cream, all-wool Delaine, prettily
trimmed Silk Embroidery, fastens at back ... ... ... ... 9/6
. . . OUR WINTER . . .
FASHION PORTFOLIO
T LLUSTRATES the Latest Fashions in Millinery,
Costumes, Ladies’ Footwear, Corsets and other
apparel, reflecting the Mode of the Moment.
The sketches will be found to be a true represen-
tation of the styles depicted, and, being drawn from
articles actually in stock, Customers may select Goods
from its pages with the assurance that disappointment
is not likely to result. Indeed, although City Customers
usually make a personal inspection of the Season’s
Fashions, Country Clients may rely upon their orders
being executed with equal carefulness by a specially
trained staff of assistants.
Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices
are based on a system of selling for Prompt Nett Cash,
and these terms Tave enabled us to at all times offer far
and away better value than any other firm in Australasia.
Zsfc
ct bw
es
br/' e
■
-c-
-&
£2B
r
972
3
4t
635
. . l
(Hoip
) <f/hn\ous
<*frices
,'<yur
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH &L CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, vSydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
r * ull Tart.icuJars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland,
imate Wealthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
" lts er) dless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Ciown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
oerrer Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets. Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at TI6 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
ZEISS
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
NEW MODELS
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof,
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
X12.—£12 10 0
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X 6 0 0
XB.-r-£9 15 0
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing/sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS. X
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.y London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
Will Andrade ™
■A ■ i
BOOKS.
. Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOR OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE'GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE -sa®
UNABRIDGED EDITIONL
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Kar.LT Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book ok Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion’,
lOd. One Thousand Wats
to Gkt Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Ctclo-
p Audi a, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3'6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonrt Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/.
J3F~4 ND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiib Bulletin.
CHEAP
CONJURING TRICKS.
7 j
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2'-
Two-from-Flve Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Thk Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident
Established IS4B.
For Life Assurance on the Mutu.
Society.
* Principle.
HAS MONET TO L£ND
Security or Freehold or Leavehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
3 a
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
or Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand PF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repavin'”
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Dirkctors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman • Beniamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. H.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, .M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcoinbe. M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece. F.I.A. FF A FS S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appear-
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
SMALL
SIZE:
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
/ . !
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
Miss
Amy
Willard,
who gives this
CLEMENTS
TONIC
testimony,
M
m
is well known to Sydney and Melbourne audiences as one of the
leads of the Willoughby Comedy* Co. (Meynell & Gunn’s attrac-
tions). She writes to ailing women thus
“CLEfIENTS TONIC LTD.
“On account of Clements Tome being used largely by the theatrical
as well as other professions, and through its being highly recommended
to me by one of the leading actors, upon the Australian stage, I secured
and used it for several weeks. I was more than gratified, as the result
was a general improvement in soundness of nerve, natural and keen
appetite, sweet refreshing sleep, which was all the more welcome because,
often through continuous study* I suffered from insomnia and broken rest.
“To women, especially those wea/k-mer,ved, run-down in health,
anaemic, with poor appetite and gene al decline of physical strength, I
consider Clements Tonic a valuable medicine, for it gives appetite and
natural sleep, and is creative of sound and permanent health.
“(Signed) AMY WILLARD.”
*
The testimony above is simply a message to women ;in ill-heaj fch that Clements Tonic is a reliever of many of
the ills from which they suffer, If usedi periodically, it keeps the system in order and makes Sick or Nervous
Headache, Insomnia or Broken Rest, Fo-or Appetite. Weakness, Morbidness, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and
Constipation things of the past. This- is gratifying, for who does not weary of the pain that produces
melancholy, the suffering that creates-despair—often , -legalities of neglect of natural needs of the body, the
refusal to keep the stomach healthy, the nerves strong, the heart sound, and the blood pure by the use of
this unquestionably splendid medicine. The* mediciw that gives health, gives life—and that medicine is
Clements Tonic. Get it, and get welli Every household should have.it.
All Chemists artel Stores. sell it in the Commonwealth.


Are
You
Thin?
Pate?
1
i§
All run di'.vn, easily tired, nerv-
ous? And do not know what
to take? Then go direct to
your doctor. Ask his opinion
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It con-
tains no alcohol, no stimulation,
and is a blood purifier, a nerve
tonic, a strong alterative, an aid
to digestion. Ask your doctor
about Ayer’s non-alcoholic Sar-
saparilla as a strong tonic for
the weak.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer At Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke Bt., Melbourne.
True Economy
is to have the best. When
that happens also to be
economical in use, who
would be without it?
Cere!) os
s&i t
goes a very long way.
Agents—Harrison and Afiwood, Sydney.
ft
NTJ
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in ail countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
IK
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you Brown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite of
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO. |
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
h
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONMNCTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like ifc for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK*’ Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
VARICOSE VEINS
totally cured without
operation or laying up.
In some of the worst cases known, even where the
victim inis been unable to walk, the patient has been
restored to his feet inside three days, and a few weeks
under treatment has absolutely healed and banished
the ulcers and permanently cured the varicose veins,
so that not a sign except slight scars remain to show
where the trouble originally existed. This is what
THE VECSEY METHOD
OF TREATMENT
ĥ
MR. 0. VECSEY,
Pounder of the Vecsey Varlx-arium.
is capable of doing in nearly every case. Once you are fully conversant with the method you
will easily understand why this is so. Cures without laying up or detention from business.
The treatment is painless, harmless, entirely of external application, and essentially a
home treatment. Every sufferer should take the trouble to investigate the truth of these claims.
The Vecsey Method of Treatment offers salvation to the thousands who without it will
remain incurable to the end. It cures absolutely and permanently, and leaves no ill after effects.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE BOOK. CONSULTATION FREE.
Send a 2d. stamp, and full particulars; and our free illustrated book will be sent you by
return post. This method offers you an opportunity that nothing else under the sun can give
you. Get rid of your varicose veins. Send to-day. FREE CONSULTATION if you can call.
Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIDM,
113 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY [1823
(cor. Castlereagti and Market Streets).
fflSggpMß*
ħ
Especially
valuable in hot
climates.
IDEAL FOOD FOR
CHILDREN FROM BIRTHo
Only the choicest Malted Barley,
Wheat and Pure Milk used in the
manufacture, and so combined as
to form a perfectly nutritious
food suitable to all ages.
Beware of' Infants’ Food containing Starch.
Horlick’s Malted Milk is passed by the Board of
Health for Australia, as Free from Starch.
Requires No Cooking. No added Milk.
Prepared instantly by stirring in water.
Wholesome. Invigorating. Sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Samples:—B2. PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks., England.
h
Freer. Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan,
N.S.W., writes: —
“ It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend yo'iir remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
U. SINCLAIR CO.,
DEPT. Q, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. [1
£1573|18|9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
of . y .°. u . The Wayback Series.
%
v''
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat”
:: Sauce
the basis of which is
“ MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Ask your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Senlac.
Oh, the stifl shone down on Senlac, and it filing the
mists before it,
And it warmed them through their armur as they
Waded in the sea,
And it flashed upon their standard so the mail-
clad might that bore it
Hurled his war song on before it
Till the sea cliffs caught the clangor and gave
birth to melody,
Iron melody.
Then aloud cried Norman William, through his
ruddy great beard laughing,
As he shook aloft his double-headed death-axe
joyously:
“Lads! Here’s England lies before us, full of
ale for each man’s quaffing,
Full of lasses, lithe and laughing,
And a throne that ■ Saxon Harold, foresworn
Harold, warms for me ;
Shall we back to sea?”
Then a shout rang, that rebounded from the hol-
low vault of Heaven,
And there flashed along the sea’s face, the long
swords, silverly ;
Sospied William far-off armor. “ Lads,” he cried.
“ Here’s welcome given,
Let us send our hosts to Heaven !
Give them rather Heaven than England; that
we’ll hold, as anciently
We did Normandy.”
By the short-grassed hill-top, Harold, on his
twisted bull-hide bending,
Eyed the blood-rust on Ins war-sword, and he
eyed it wearily ;
Yet his slackened sinews tightened; “Saxons,”
called he, “make an ending !
See the Norman bow-staves bending !
Let us drive them as we drove the Danes, to
drink the bitter sea ! ”
And they cheered him, cheerily.
So the swift shafts sang together like a flight of
war-birds whirring,
That through shield and helm and byrnie thrust
keen beaks eagerly.
And the grim war-eagles gathered where the
crushed corpse yet was stirring,
And the grey wolf watched their whirring,
And the Valkyrs reaped their harvest in the
meadows by the sea,
Choosing silently.
Thrice the Saxon war-wedge thundered, crashing
through the sons of Rollo,
Thrice the Norman death-axe turned it, bursting
passage free.
“Blood of Christ!” cries Harold, helmless, “Men
of S.>xon England, follow,
Will, ye have the breed of Kollo,
Bastard pirates, France-fat Northmen, to subdue
us utterly?
England and victory ! ”
As along the windy heaven flares the full-moon,
stormy-wreathed
Flared he helmless through the foemen, fair-
haired Harold, furiously,
And the winged-helms flashed and faded as the
stars in Heaven are sheathed
When the yellow moon’s unwreathed.
For his battle-edge through bone and brain bit
deep and deathfully.
Gods ! What a sight to see !
Quoth then Norman William’s cunning to his
archers “ Aim ye higher,
Let us give them rain from Heaven an’ they fight
so thirstily ! ”
And the Saxon shield-ring shivered in the flaming
hail of fire,
And to Harold, towering higher,
Soft and sweet the Valkyrs whispered, and a
feathered death found he,
Swiftly, and silently.
Oh, the harvest moon glows yellow, on the vultures’
harvest peeping,
And the grey wolf snarls beneath the moon where
red-toothed slinketh he,
For along the gleaming battle-wrack there floats a
woman’s weeping,
’Midst death-grey faces peeping—
What’s that grim thing her unbound hair falls
over, goldenly ?
O God ! That let this be !
n.s.w.
H. M. GREEN.
God and I.
There is one great bond between us that is neither
worn nor frayed,
Though He reigns supreme in Heaven and I till
the Earth He made ;
Though He is the great Creator —I the smallest,
trampled clod.
Yet there is this bond between us—we are weary,
I and God!
By the stern Decree of Eden, I must wring from
barren lands
Food for my toil-racked body, whilst He sits with
folded hands ;
Low and softly in these ages the celestial choirs do
sing.
For a palace sinks to silence when in slumber lies
the King.
In the primal days of kingship, so the hoary legend
says,
He created this vast plaything in six mighty
working days ;
But the task no doubt distressed Him, and He
sought a life of ease ;
Now unheeded spins the plaything through the
careless centuries.
Now I see the temples totter, and I hear the
chanting cease
When with those first days of vigor we contrast
this deathly peace;
For the prayer remains unanswered and the weak
and helpless fall.
And the tyrant goes unhindered whilst His faint-
ing servants call.
And now, having hurled this pebble, to my glass-
house I’ll retire,
To continue my earth labor and reluctantly
perspire;
And I bid you when I perish carve above this
head of mine:
“Yes, he sinned both much and deeply—but his
tiredness was divine.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
< •* <.< < <• «
~ v ~» » > v v.> n *j
V * * a V Tr i
Ulri-i|»4t)'i-MBiiJ
w
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order: is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 1 55. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... 6d
Packet of Ten ... 5d
3
UNDER VICE- REGAL
h
PATRONAGE,,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabetti & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 213 S Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
WELSBACH
Elecflric Light
w
n
156>
m
1
M9HF Vl waiitng yaiur
m Cci •'• > (wm ed: ins (nit: fiahs
I
Welsbach Filament Electric Lamps
have proved their superiority !
THE CLAIM that Welsbach Filament Electric Lamps will reduce
the Electric current bill by 70 per cent, has been demonstrated to the
satisfaction of thousands of users of electric current. They have soon
proved their superiority and “made good” all that was claimed for them.
Welsbach Lamps are foremost for efficiency, strength and economy.
By insisting on WELSBACH Lamps—and you know them by their
trade mark—you are certain of securing the strongest and best
Metallic Filament Electric Lamp.
ELECTRIC LIGHT DEPT.:
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia, Limited,
Welsbach House—3o2 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
380 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
102 Victoria Street, WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Question
! I
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE.
The L-argest Distillers
in tHe World.
freebooter
brand -
MGISTfRCT)
SqUARE
SCHNAPPS
tT iS
SQUAftt
WOOuct
Of
PROPRIETOR
ramiiurao osTiiuftics
DEI/T HOLUfID
ABDVLLA
CIGARETTES.
ARE AHEAD
of a.ll others for Purity and Flavor.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN, VIRGINIAN,
6%
1/
m
Q
MTY&C9LT?
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA.
I
v.
M
mm
sSSSSSS-.i-s'S
' ; 3
gPH
i :.; .•;
A BEAUTIFUL CAR.
ONE always likes to have beautiful appearance in a car, but there is no
satisfaction in having this if the engines are not efficient and
reliable. The question of appearance you can decide on by an
inspection of the model ; but to be certain that the Vital Spot—the engine—
is going to do its work well and satisfactorily-, you have to select a make of
known and established reputation.
The names of the cars for which we hold the agencies are in themselves
guarantees of excellence. They are
The Daimler. The Austin
The Delaunay=Belleville.
The F.N.
The Schacht Motor Buggy.
The Halley Motor Lorry.
We invite your inspection of these models at our garage.
DALGETY CO., LTD.,
136-138 PHillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1625.
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1911.
Prick 6d.
VICTORIA’S MARRIAGE BOOM.
The marriage-rate was largely increased last year, for the first time in the history of the State reaching the 10,000 level. The exact figure is 10,240. Double
this, and we find that 20,480 people have been made happy or otherwise during the year which has recently become a memory. Out of each thousand people in
Victoria 15‘66 celebrated the ceremony. —Daily Paper.
HYMEN (to Cupid): “See here, I’m worked to death. If this is the result of your Labor Government, do you expect
me to vote ‘Yes’ at the Referendum?”


NOTICE TO AGENTS .
Owing to Easter Holidays “ The
Bulletin” dated April 13th will be
published on WEDNESDAY, 12th
inst.
EXTRA ORDERS for this issue
should reach us not later than
Friday, 7th inst.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business , 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I’er Annum £l6 0
Half-yearly . . .. . . 013 6
Quarterly .. .. . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters {with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
therej the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the cyntents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are, en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood' that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
lurther, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is hot responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch {wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at jt/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs,
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Holborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, lfiil Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x U/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1911.
THE REFERENDA AND THE
RAILWAYS.
E. F. Mitchell, K.C., a Victorian hard-
shell Tory, supplied “Liberalism” with a
text after its own heart the other
day. He argued that, assuming the Refer-
enda questions are answered the way the
Australian Government desires, “the Federal
Labor Caucus will have power to make laws
with respect to practically every matter con-
nected with the management and control of
every State railway; it could regulate all
freights, the times and conditions of running
of trains, etc.” This, in Mitchell’s opin-
ion, will produce that nrnst unthinkable of
national disasters, Disquiet in the Pawn-
shop. “If,” he says, “the creditors realise
that the whole control and management of
the railways of each State is entirely at the
mercy of the Federal Parliament —which at
present may mean the Federal Labor caucus
—is it likely that the States will be in a
position to borrow money in the future?”
It is a subtle appeal to the many who be-
lieve implicitly that the nation which does
not live by pawning its clothes and keeping
a permanent bill of sale on the furniture is
Lost. But, though it is subtle, it is bogus.
On a matter of this sort the foreign Cohen
will take the opinion of the foreign railway
expert; and here is the foreign expert’s
opinion, as already impartially stated in the
English Railway Gazette (16/12/TO) —a
journal issued in the interests of Private En-
terprise,' as represented by the leading Rail-
way Companies oi the United Kingdom: —
To say that the Federal Court or Government will
in future control the railways is, of course, not ac-
curate All it [the Court] will do will be to
say, when appealed to, what are and what are not
fair rates of pay and conditions of service. The in-
dividual States would merely stand in the same posi-
tion as an} - other great employer, the condition in
whose employ are already controlled by the Fee.oral
Arbitration Courts. These Courts are very impartial
and highly respected, and are further removed from
political intrigue than the State institutions. The
MOVE WOULD APPEAR TO BE A WISE ONE, even If it
did tend to weaken State railway control, which it
will not do.
No doubt Cohen would have reason to be
alarmed if he assumed that the Australian
people chose lunatics for their legislators,
and gibbering idiots for their Judges. if
they were in the habit of doing that, and if
the lunatic legislators chose their wildest
maniacs for Ministers, the Australian Gov-
ernment might no doubt have all millionaires,
liars, tide-waiters, auctioneers, and remit-
tance-men warned off the State railways for
life. Holders of first-class tickets might
be ordered to occupy horse-boxes, and wear
dog-chains; also the Commissioners’ cars
might be set aside for the use of undesirable
aliens, and any (die found travelling under a
seat without a ticket could be rewarded with
a purse of severeigns. In short, the Com-
monwealth Government, if it ivere mad,
could run the railways on madhouse lines —
till the country got its opportunity to ex-
press an opinion on the efforts. If, then,
Cohen believes that Australia is going to
hand over its business to its madmen, and
that its madmen will do such things, he will
be alarmed. For the present, however, his
technical, railway advisers evidently refuse
to believe any such nonsense. On the con-
trary, they assume that sane electors will
elect sane Parliaments, and sane Govern-
ments will appoint sane Judges. There-
fore, “the move,” they say, “would appear
to be a wise one.”
* * * *
And these advisers have very good reason,
based on actual experience, to conclude that
the Commonwealth will not work on mad-
house principles. For the past 10 years the
Commonwealth, though it has not had con-
trol over railway services within the States,
has had the fullest control over all traffic
between the States, inasmuch as Section 98
of the Constitution declares that “the powers
of Parliament to make laws with respect to
trade and commerce extend ... to railways,
the property of a State. Thus, though the
Commonwealth Parliament possesses no
power over railway traffic between (say)
xielbournq and Wodonga, or Sydney and
Bathurst, it has had, ever since its inception,
the fullest power to regulate freights and
fares, and all conceivable travelling condi-
tions between (say) Melbourne and Sydney,
or Brisbane and Adelaide. It has never ex-
ercised, or attempted to exercise, that power ;
and it never will. As Lowell, Low,
Bagehot, and the rest of the commentators
on the working of the British Constitution
have repeatedly insisted, Ministerial respon-
sibility in no wise signifies Departmental
management.
* * * *
W. E. Gladstone spoke a truth, which
is extremely pertinent in these days of ex-
cited Tory talk about Laborites driving law-
abiding folks to revolution and bloodshed,
when he said that “all Constitutional Gov-
ernment is founded on compromise and com-
mon-sense.” The average Australian Minis-
ter has at least , the average amount of com-
mon-sense ; wherefore the nation may rely on
its Fishers leaving the management of
railway details —such as equipment, regula-
tion of freights and fares, train services, and
so forth —in the hands of the Railway Com-
missioners. These are matters with which
the Commonwealth is as unlikely to inter-
fere as it is to crowd into the Army Bar-
racks with the object of revolutionising the
drill system. But the question of the
hours of pay of the railway staff stands on
a different footing. There are few, even in
Mitchell’s party of false-alarm Liberals,
who question the desirability of granting
railway employees a right of appeal to the
Federal Arbitration Court—the Supreme
Court of Appeal in the land. The great ma-
jority of them confess that the-" are not
alarmed about that. They know, moreover,
that it is no use to even profess to be
alarmed, inasmuch as that would amount to
a ilseless reflection on the High Court —and
that cry, besides being dangerous, would cut
no ice. So they fall back on the fatuous
assumption that the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment and Government will do mad things
which they know it never will do, and hasn’t
the least intention of attempting.
So Cohen, rattling his money-boxes 12,000
miles away, will— fortunately or unfortun-
ately—continue to be at home to Australian
customers at the old address. The bogey-
talk of Mitchell, K.C., won’t affect him in
the least. His argument will be quite sound
and quite simple—“lf I have to assume that
the people will elect their madmen to do
their business, I should also have to assume
that they would elect madmen to manage
their banks and other companies; and I
haven’t seen any particular disposition on
the part of people anywhere to do any such
thing.”
SOME PLAIN SPEECH ON A GHASTLY
SUBJECT.
notorious trouble with the nations which
the tongue that Shakspeare
fa o i d . maide nly reluctance to face
1 physiological facts. The
which was said to have driv en
chronic chapel . goers in the United States to
dothe the legs of their pianoSj impelled Brit-
ish critics to damn “Ghosts,” the British cen-
sor to put his veto on “Mrs. Warren’s Pro-
fession,” and Mudie’s and the rest of the li-
braries to ban “Cottage Pie.” The West
End of London provides a standing text for
visiting sociologists and others, as well as a
permanent menace to the youth of the na-
tion, not because the Englishman likes the
main streets and chief music halls of his
capital city to hold the world’s record as
havens for every class and color of Women
who have Done, but because he prefers even
that to the unpleasantness of legislating on
a question which, he considers, should not
be mentioned in respectable society. At
the time of the Dargai Campaign, an en-
tire British regiment was debarred from go-
ing to the front owing to disease. It was
so ill that it couldn’t march, much less
fight. To-day, despite the devoted efEorts
or regimental and medical officers, between
30 and 40 per cent, of the rank and file in
India are diseased; and the figures for the
Home battalions are little better. It is an-
other manifestation of the English-speaking
person’s insane habit of treating, as though
they did not exist, horrors which shriek for
close attention.
* * * *
Here, in Australia, assuming that Japan
lies obligingly low till our army of small
boys grows up, and that nothing happens to
Britain’s sea-power before the Common-
wealth’s belated navy develops into a factor
to be reckoned with, we shall in time achieve
a considerable body of defenders. Even if
there were a prospect of this country hav-
ing soldiers and sailors to spare, it would be
a blunder and a crime to waste them. But
there is no such thing in prospect. One of
the things Australia is not going to be
threatened with for a number of generations
io come is a surplusage of warriors. Demon-
strably it behoves the Commonwealth to pro-
vide that its defenders shall, amongst other
things, be in the best possible physical con-
dition when they grow old enough to be
effective. How does Australia stand in this
regard at present? The answer is that,
despite the various Pure Foods Acts, Boards
of Health, and so forth, in the matter of
combating that disease which Fournier has
classed wdth tuberculosis and alcoholism as
‘‘the most dreadful of modern plagues,” prac-
tically nothing has been either done or at-
tempted—in most States, nothing whatever.
It is not that medical men have failed
to din into the ears of all and sundry the
urgency of getting an immediate strangle-
hold on the evil; nor that legislators fail to
appreciate the tiling for the blasting curse
it is. It runs riot unchecked, with never a
word of protest from a public platform, or
in the columns of the daily press, because,
with their British blood, Australians have
inherited a full measure of British snuffle
and false shame. In addition to Siiak-
speare’s tongue, and Milton’s faith and
morals, a big class in this country possesses
the social outlook of the calamitous British
folk who opposed the C. D. Act towards the
end of last century, on the preposterous
grounds that “the Law should not operate
to encourage sin, or protect sinners.”
* # * *
Just how deeply Australia is scored with
one of the grimmest diseases known to man-
kind, it is impossible to say. In the nature
of things there are no reliable figures avail-
able. A line may possibly be got from
Maoriland, where, in the words of Dr. Find-
lay, Minister for Justice in the Dominion: —
According to the best calculations that can be made
on the statistics and other figures obtainable, 60 per
cent, of all males contract sexual disorders before
they reach 30; while from 65 per cent, to 80 per
cent, of the abdominal and pelvic operations on
women are due to the infection that ensues.
Australia may not be in such a bad way as
Maoriland ; on the other hand, it may be in a
considerably worse way. In the Universi-
ties of Germany, where sexual troubles have
been handled with the gloves off, it is on
record that 25 per cent, of the students be-
come infected every term; and according to
Havelock Ellis, in the German Army—
where supervision is particularly careful —
“the yearly number of men invalided equals
a third of the total number wounded in the
Franco-Prussian War.” Let it be again
insisted that the trouble by which a vast
number of these men are laid low is no
comparative triviality like small-pox or ty-
phoid fever. It bears a fairly close analogy
to leprosy. A great authority has said that
without it there would be no nervous diseases
in the world. It is certainly responsible for
95 per cent, of cases of general paralysis
and locomotor ataxia. A big proportion of
cases of brain-softening and dementia,
and innumerable skin, nose and eye com-
plaints are due to it. In its final manifesta-
tions it is indescribable. The highest order
of Right Thinking Person may contract it.
It may be inherited. A son may unwit-
tingly transmit it to his mother by kissing
her on the cheek. Doctors and nurses stand
in daily peril of it. It may lurk on the rim
of any glass or cup in any hotel or tea-
room ; bn any towel or fork or roll of bread
or bunch of grapes or tram or pawn ticket.
And each person who is infected becomes
immediately a distributing-focus for the
ruin of innumerable others. In Manchuria,
at the present moment, Japan is pouring
out money like water, with the object of
suppressing pneumonic plague. Sydney did
the same, a decade ago, in order to banish
bubonic plague. All dver the Common-
wealth hundreds of thousands sterling are
expended yearly in the fight with the White
Death. Yet against a disease which is
more loathsome than plague, and perhaps as
disastrous, nationally speaking, as tubercu-
losis itself, not a finger is being raised.
Australia, with an army and navy in the
making, is inert in the presence of that
which has for centuries done deadly damage
to armies. And for no more rational cause
than that which precludes the really genteel
Yankee from mentioning the word “stomach”
in the hearing of his lady friends.
* * * *
For years reformers were discouraged in
their efforts to check the most appalling
variety of venereal disease by the hopeless
knowledge that there were no means of
swiftly dealing with it once it had been con-
tracted, and consequently no possibility of
preventing it from spreading. The best of
evidence is available that that state of af-
fairs is ended. In the Australasian
Medical Gazette (20/3/’U), the Hon.
Pathologist to the Sydney Hospital, and the
Medical Superintendent of the N.S.W. Coast
Hospital state the effects of salvarsan, or
“696,” on the 19 Coast Hospital cases
treated by this drug since its arrival from
Germany "a few months ago. If it produced
no other result than that of rendering the
patient powerless to infect others, after four
days’ application ,(and that it has this
power the scientists have definitely proved),
it would stand justified as one of humanity’s
priceless discoveries. To narrow a diseased
person’s potentialities for harm from two
years down to four days, means decreasing
the public’s chances of acquiring this mis-
fortune to an incalculable extent. But more
than this is proved. Two of the least re-
volting cases that are cited in the Gazette
will do:-
Case 4. —Before injection: Multiple ulcers of
tongue, ulcer at angle of mouth and of lower lip,
extensive ulceration of both tonsils and of posterior
pharyngeal wall, causing much pain in swallowing.
In seven days ulcers of tongue, of angle of mouth
and of lower lip are healed; ulcers of throat are
healing, and he can now swallow food in comfort;
weight has increased from 1341 b. to 1381 b.
Case s.—Before injection: Ulcer at each angle of
mouth and numerous ulcers on tongue; much sali-
vation, causing difficulty in speaking. In seven davs
ulcers of tongue quite, and of mouth almost, healed ;
salivation has ceased; weight has increased from
1191 b. to 1221 b.
In short, a means has been found of check-
ing, if not of absolutely scotching, a dis-
ease which, one way and another, kills more
people in a week than cancer does in a year.
What is Australia —the country with the
infant army, the embryo navy, the birth-rate
problem, and the unsatisfactory immigration
tally—going to do about it?
* * * «
The numerous experiments that were tried
during the past century to mitigate what
has always been recognised as a national
menace—the Stale regulation of the “social
evil,” and so on —all failed, more or less.
They were bound to, in the nature of things,
because none of them got near the heart of
the trouble. It is certain that the medical
men of Australia, with Professor Ehrlich’s
new discovery at their command, can show
results as satisfactory in the grosser form
of venereal disease as any that have been
shown in diphtheria or plague. All they
require is a fair sporting chance. A first
essentiul to success is the formation in
every State of Lock Hospitals, or of Lock
wings attached to existing hospitals. All
sufferers should be legally compelled to notify
themselves, and to undergo proper treat-
ment and supervision. A howl of protest is
bound to arise when such a scheme is under-
stood. The Wowser will inveigh against it
as a plot to render sin safe, and the Sinner
damn it as a gross assault on the liberty of
the subject. But the vast majority of the
unprejudiced must recognise that it is but
a corollary of legislation which has done
magnificent work for years past. Victims
of leprosy, small-pox and bubonic plague are
already compulsorily segregated—as one re-
sult of which these once almost-universal
complaints are practically unknown among
us. Compulsory notification exists in re-
gard to diphtheria, scarlet fever, typhoid
fever, typhus, etc.; and the principle has
ceased to arouse protest in their regard.
Side by side with the proposed reform would,
of course, go the quarantining of venereal
subjects from oversea. The work would
be painful and costly, but the reward \vould
be worth it. It would mean the acquisition
by the Commonwealth of the only physically-
sound army and navy that the world has
had for four centuries. Australia would
become known, not only as the only White
Continent, but as the only Clean Continent.
It is an ideal worth striving for.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The State Frights Railway Swindle.
Railway Commissioner Johnson,
-while under examination by the Decentral-
isation Commission recently, gave away the
whole case for the cont rol of the railways
by the States. The business under the Corn-
mission’s eye at the moment was the River-
ina traffic and the vast, unnecessary haul-
age to and from Sydney. Said Johnson :
The SU gg es tion to grant rebates on railway rates
f- 0 induce shipment from ports other than Sydney,
would be absolutely at variance with established
railway principles. Under existing conditions it
would be absolutely illegal.
Having thus laid it down that it would be
sinful to give a preference to any N.S.W.
port except Sydney, he went on to say that,
of course, so far, as Riverina is concerned,
Victorian ports would be much nearer. But
the idea of encouraging the traffic to go to
the nearest port was not to be thought of!
So N. S. Wales cut in with special rebates,
He quoted freights as follows: —
Finley to Toeumwal. — 163 miles to Melbourne,
466 miles to Sydney; wheat, per ton, 13s. 6d. to
Melbourne, 11s. lOd. to Sydney..
Thus, in order to prevent Finley wheat go-
ing the 163 miles to Melbourne, a rate is fixed
at which it is dragged the whole 455 miles
to Sydney for _ Is. Bd. per ton less than it
would pay if it went the short way. In
other words, assuming that 13s. 6d. per ton is
a fair rate for the 163 miles, then the
N.S.W. taxpayer drags the wheat 310 miles
for nothing, in order that Sydney shall
have the handling of it, and the pecking
at it, instead of Melbourne. You can t
drag wheat, or anything else, 310 miles for
nothing; and, as the wheat-farmer doesn t
pay, the money has to come out of general
revenue. Or the suburban or other railway
users have to pay their own fares and
freights, and, in addition, something to
make good the loss on the haulage of Some-
body else’s wheat a wholly unnecessary 300
miles. _ Nor does the farmer benefit at,
all. His wheat is none the better for the
unnecessary haulage; and unnecessary haul-
age is all he gets out of the deal, for the
Is. Bd. per ton is too small to count. In
fact, if there were none of this shocking
waste—if there were none of this unneces-
sary haulage—the railways could afford to
carry his goods at a cheaper rate to the
nearest market. The Victorian railways,
on account of the competition of the jS.S.H.
lines, don’t have the traffic they should:
consequently the Finley man has to pay
more for freight to his nearest port than
he should. Also, the Victorian railways,
like those of N. S. Wales, struggle to
make traffic flow out of its natural chan-
nel; and that means waste, and waste
means that the Finley man pays more
than is necessary, even to reach his nearest
port. And what applies to the Finley man
applies to 10,000 others. The whole busi-
ness is artificial; and it never will be any-
thing else so long as there are rival State
railway systems, one _ competing for the
trade which geographically belongs, and.
therefore, ought to go, to the other, and all
struggling to feed their bloated capitals.


Song of the People.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
We are the People Omniscient! At word of
our might
Mountains fall riven to dust;
Or the shuddering night,
Scared by our power into horror o gasp
ing affright,
Bursts into rivers of blood, while ppies
sion and Lust ,
Flee to their burrows in fear, and w i 1
crawling disgust
Curse us and die!
We build our gallows on hilltop and p am,
aud near by
Tyrants crouch watching our beacons t a
blaze up on high,
Jewelling minster and steeple!
Terrible, beautiful, clear is the truth that
we cry —
We are the People!
We are the people All-Loving! We reckon
aright
Gibes of the insolent rich and the piteous
cry
Wrung from the breasts of poor babes as
they hunger and die!
We scorn the gods that they trust-
Pander, and dotard, and vampire, and
minion, and wanton, bedight
Still with the gems that we dig for and
bleed for; and bright,
Bright as the flame of our scorn, is the hope
we espy:
Soon all the barbarous wrongs that now
fester and creep ’ll
Rot, and as carrion lie!
We are the Lords of the Time. Kings may
squirm, but they must
Bend as whipped thralls to the gods we
have made by-and-bye —
We are the People!
We are the People Uniting! We fling to
the sky
Challenges fierce as we waken and spring
from the dust!
We toss aside pale “ You may" for terrific
“You must” :
Splendid and piercing and strong is our
ultimate cry !
Soon the starved helots that suffer and
struggle and weep ’ll
Spring fully-armed to the glorious banner
we fly !
Out on you, tyrannous horde! For the
battle you light
Ends in damnation for you now our torch
is alight!
Out and to Hell with you, prelate and
courtier and spy,
Fools that have trusted in fools and have
built on a lie!
We are the People!
We are the People Unsparing! Your doom
is a-nigh— , ,
Law-cats and snufflers and pilferers greedy
and sly!
We shall live fatly in peace while you
munch on a crust
Flung by our pity, that you shall have
leisure to die!
Red glooms the sun of our rising, our man-
date is thrust
Into your womanish hands that so tremble
with fright! .
Back to your owner and master, vile owls
of the night!
Torments you’ve made at your livers shall
batten and bite;
Pits you have digged for our feet, so grim-
yawning and deep, ’ll
Serve to hide your flaccid clay from our
noses and sight!
We are the People!
MAORILAND. FRANK MORTON.
The Brotherhood of Fat.
When you get right into the heart of the
present Tory uproar against the Referenda,
you find that it is almost wholly due to
the fierce rage of the Fatman at the pros-
pect of losing some of his profits. The old
Scripture-writers, when they wanted a simile
for desperate wrath, used to refer to a
lioness robbed of her cubs. If they wrote
to-day, they would picture a Fatman in dan-
ger of his profits. It is the same the world
over. One issue of the morning papers
recently had these two items:
Calcutta. —With the support of all the provin-
cial governments, the Viceroy’s Council yesterday
passed a Factory Act, establishing a day of 12 hours
for all adults, and six hours for children. . . It was
passed in the face of continuous opposition from
the Bombay cotton and the Calcutta jute firms.
London. —In the House of Commons yesterday
the Prime Minister announced that a Licensing
Bill, on the lines of the 1908 Bill, was
urgently needed. The Bill would be introduced
immediately the Parliament Veto Bill was passed.
I The 1908 Bill was passed in the House ot Com-
mons by a. majority of 23/, and was rejected by
the House of Lords by a vote of 272 to 96.1
So necessary was the Indian Factory Act
that “all the provincial governments sup-
ported it. Fat, however, continuously op-
posed it. The House of Lords’ action over
the Licensing Bill was just about as bad.
The Bill provided some splendid reforms;
but, as it happened to interfere with vested
interests, it went out on its head. In Aus-
tralia, the last stronghold of Fat is the
Legislative Council, especially where, as in
Victoria, it is elected on a restricted property
franchise. If the Referenda are passed,
Fat will be shorn of much of his remaining
power, so that he is fighting with his back
to the wall. It is all very intelligible; and
it is all very ignoble. But the sorriest spec-
tacle is the support which Fat is getting
from alleged Democrats. It cannot be t<po
strongly insisted on that “State Rights, ih
this contest, means really “Fat’s Privileges
—the privilege to block humane legislation,
the right to continue sweating, and the li-
cense to stop the progress of civilisation gen-
erally. If the electors grasp this true in-
wardness of the situation, the battle is won.
The Australian National Spirit.
One day lately the Sydney Telegraph de-
plored the cult of Australianism. It com-
plained that there was no need for any pro-
paganda of the sort. As to people banding
together to foster an Australian spirit, it
was “as purposeless as a French natives’
association in France.” The analogy is, un-
fortunately, false, and the conclusion, there-
fore, rotten ; and there is plenty of evidence
to prove it so. A week or so back the Com-
monwealth destroyers—which, largely owing
to Australia’s old-time craze for foreign im-
ports, had to be built abroad— developed defects
in their steering-gear. No one questioned
that the blame rested with the British au-
thorities, who had supervised the building ot
the vessels, tested them, and given them a
clean bill of health. Anyhow,, and in what-
ever light the occurrence was viewed, it didn t
amount to an occasion for rejoicing or merri-
ment. To persons who are threatened with
any imagination at all, there must be some-
thing inspiring about these small ships, the
lonely forerunners of the mighty fleet that is
to be —provided abways Australians aren t.
the crassest incompetents and the worst
parasites that the world has known. Yet,
Sydney Evening News, which gets its com-
fortable living out of this country, voicing
quite a large body of “opinion,” greeted the
mishap with the delighted guffaw of the
small boy who sees his hated enemy flung
off a tram. The dreadful publication hailed
the fact that Britain had supplied the Com-
monwealth with some defective steering-
gear as a humorous proof of its an-
cient contention that Australia shouldn't
be trusted with a navy of its own. A car-
toon depicted a crowd of low-comedy mar-
iners steering, with a wooden oar, the sort
of craft which J. Cook, M.P., when “Lib-
eral” Minister of Defence, imagined a
“River” destroyer was. Had the half-nigger
Republic of Chili —a country vastly inferior
to Australia in wealth and population —suf-
fered a mishap to one of its war-ships, Aus-
tralian “loyalists” wouldn’t have been di-
verted. The intimation that Peru —whose
public revenue is about 24 millions, as
against Australia’s 144 millions —had found
defects in one of the formidable cruisers
which it owns, would not have wrung gibes
from members of the British Empire League
of Australia. It is only when an Australian-
owned war-vessel goes wrong that the as-
tounding “loyalists,” whose views are faith-
fully expressed by papers like the News, are
moved to behave as though they were in the
presence of a Lion Comique. Which goes
to show that patriotism does need to be
fostered in Australia. In Prance there is
no necessity for anything of the sort. But,
then, in France, aW. E. Johnson —the type
of politician who accuses his native land of
wanting a navy in order to destroy its chief
benefactor —would be regarded as a particu-
larly libellous traitor: and the editor of a
paper which habitually belittled the nation’s
fleet would stand a fair chance of decorating
a lamp-post.
♦ V
Some things That Were Never Contemplated.
Ma’s Minister for Education Beeby has
now definitely signed on to join the forces of
Fat, in the attempt to hamstring the nation
as it passes through the gateway of the Re-
ferenda. Making excuses for himself, lie
uses that old familiar wheeze, “It was never
contemplated by the framers of the Constitu-
tion, or by the people when they accepted it,
that,” etc. Probably the . most concise an-
swer to this undemocratic argument was
given by that sound Constitutionalist, Jus-
tice (then Mr.) Higgins, many years ago,
when the smiths of the Federal Constitution
were busy riveting the hobble-chains. He
put it thus :
I contend that we have no right to dictate to the
future Australian people what shall be the machinery
for dealing with those subjects which are admittedly
Australian, or to interfere with the control of all-
Australian questions by a majority of the people of
Australia. To judge from some advocates, one would
think that in the convention of 1897-8 the duty of
members was to guide and restrain the people for
centuries to come as to their own concerns—as the
Biglow Papers put it:
That wat we hed met fur was just to agree
Wat the people’s opinions in futur’ should be.
Beeby agrees that all powers should primar-
ily be vested in the National Parliament, and
tliat the limits placed on the power to amend
the Constitution must be. removed, “in. order
that expression can be given at any . time to
the will of the majority of the citizens of
the Commonwealth” ; which is practically an
elaborate overture to the very tune the Re-
ferenda propose to play without an overture.
The peculiar complaint of Beeby is that these
Referenda proposals are a short cut to unifi-
cation ; yet, if he is not misreported, he holds
that unification is the proper form of govern-
ment for the Commonwealth. He sets out
his conception of that “proper form of gov-
ernment” this way:—
All powers should primarily be vested in the
National Parliament. The re-subdivision of the Con-
tinent into States should follow, and then the
■National Parliament should declare what functions
it intends to exercise, leaving the residue in the
hands of the States, with the necessary simplification
of the forms of State Government. So long as un-
trammelled expression can at any time be given to
the wishes of the majority of the people of the Com-
monwealth, I would not hesitate to heartily endorse
this re-organisation of governmental powers.
So that, despite the open-armed welcome that
Fat’s newspapers have given to Beeby, as
another prominent deserter from the people’s
cause, even the Sydney Telegraph has to
admit that he is “a unificationist on a demo-
cratic basis.” But, whatever particular spe-
cies of unificationist that may be, Beeby’s
present position is clear and plain—and sus-
picious. He is standing high in the light,
pointing with one hand to the national des-
tination, and with the other to the longest
and most perilous way round. He is no
comfort to either party. To Fat he says,
in effect: “I’ll fight with you, so that I can
get a stronger grip on your throat —some
day.” To Labor he says: “I don’t believe
in half a loaf, so you can starve, as far as
I’m concerned.” The point he overlooks is
the reply both parties tvill probably make to
him. It is fairly safe to say that the reply
from one, at least, will be such as Beeby
“never contemplated” vffien he first got a
foothold on the shoulders of the Labor giant.
The Prophet Who Doesn’t Deserve Any
Honor.
Not many months back the columns of the
Sydney Daily Telegraph resounded with
a riot of epithets, warnings and outcries
against the Labor candidates for seats in the
Ma Parliament, while the mere suggestion
that Wade should be passed out, to make
room for a “Caucus Ministry,” was sufficient
to set all King-street trembling with rage
and indignation. Nothing seemed clearer
than that a Labor victory would.be the fore-
runner of general, wide-spread disaster, mal-
administration, class oppression, incompet-
ence, confiscation, and all. the ills, that could
arise from diseased political tissue. But
what happened? The Wade-Would-T waddle
party was emptied into The rubbish-bin, and
the Revolutionaries took office. Five
months have passed since then, and the
Telegraph has not published the where-
abouts of one marriage tie busted, nor of a
solitary bank harassed into bankruptcy.
Instead, the paper trots out, every now and
then, dopes of adulation of one Minister or
the other. Now, it is the “business-like”
Assistant-Treasurer Carmichael who gets
the glad pen, for “playing the game of poli-
tics as it should be played by conscientious
men”; next, it is Flowers’s arguments
which “are backed by common-sense” ; next,
Chief Secretary Donald Macdonell is
lime-lighted as one who “must be commended
for moving in the right direction”; then
Minister for Works Griffith is boomed
through the paper on his northern tour, in
a way to make poor old “Solemn” Lee’s
mouth water, and is saluted from the leading
article in this way : —
The frank impartiality and independence with
which the Minister for Works administers his Depart-
ment promises to be the most reassuring feature of
Labor rule to those who on one score and another
have their doubts about it.
After so many frank admissions of its
rank failure as a public prophet, it is no
surprise to find the D. T. reversing the view
it took of IIolman when he was opposed to
the calamitous Coercion Act, and describing
him, the new Attorney-General, as a man
“who is picked out by reason of his conspic-
uous fitness to legally advise the State.”
Altogether, the Telegraph proves itself the
same old incompetent adviser, bawling con-
demnation before the evidence is presented,
and immediately afterwards cheering in a
loud voice to cover its confusion, and drown
the echo of its ridiculous hoots.
+.
Fizz!
The Champagne Riots in France appear to
have raised the question whether one district
can or should stop other districts from apply-
ing its name to the goods they produce. Firstly,
the small vineyardists and laud owners of
the original Champagne country—also pre-
sumably the oldest and most conservative
firms— for a Bill to prevent unscrupu-
lous manufacturers from importing wine
from outlying districts and trading it off on
the world as genuine champagne. While the
Bill was dawdling along, the malcontents
seized a few thousand vats of the spurious
liquor and emptied the contents into a river.
Thus they scared the Government into passing
a measure that gave to the original Cham-
pagne district the sole right to the title; but
the big exporters were not forbidden to deal
with other sparkling wine, provided they
shipped it as something else. The limita-
tion of the word “champagne” to the Cham-
pagne country has, however, produced riots
in other districts. The departments of
Aube and Upper Marnay are in a state of
ferment —vineyard workers are burning the
Premier in effigy, and wanting to know what
will become of them if the wine of their dis-
tricts is deprived of its bogus title and ren-
dered almost useless for exportation to for-
eign countries, “Champagne” and “Moselle”
being the only two French light sparkling
wines that count in foreign markets. So
the French Senate is up against the fact
that, in trying to content the genuine cham-
pagne grape-growers, it is threatening to
destroy a large French trade, which prospers
under false pretences. Hence, the second
series of Champagne Riots is pretty certain
to result in the amendment of the Govern-
ment’s virtuous bill. From this recent re-
velation of the truth, or some of the truth,
about the frauds of the French wine trade,
Australia may at least gain a fresh incen-
tive to the manufacture of its own sparkling
wines, which are much better entitled to be
called “champagne” than the vast bulk of
the stuff that comes here from Europe.
Nothing seems to have been done by the
State Governments to create a solid public
respect for the choicest native brands, and
to counteract the antagonistic influence of
the Stinking Fish party —which claims to be
the only party with an educated taste in
liquor. After the Referendum the Federal
Parliament will be in a position to do some-
thing worth doing. Already it ought to be
considering the advisability of a Bill to safe-
guard fools against the temptation of buy-
ing bogus and probably harmful French
champagne at preposterously high prices—
the price for the name being the charm of
the temptation. The Bill passed by the
French Senate would prove a safeguard if it
were put into operation, but the odds are
that it never will be. The duty of stopping
mock champagne from entering the Com-
monwealth is therefore pretty certain to be
left to the Customs.
+.
State Rights and Private Wrongs.
From a well-known Sydney investor:
As, nearly every newspaper in New South .Wales
is barracking for “No” on the Referenda, on Apiil
26, and a number of them refuse to publish any-
thing that may prejudice what they term State
Rights,” the time is opportune to draw public at-
tention to some of the laws passed by the State
Parliament in the interests of a certain class. 1
will refer to one only, the Companies Act, but there
are a number of others quite as bad, and they were
all placed on the Statute Book by the so-called
Liberal party. _ ,, T * +
In 1892 the Dibbs Government passed the Joint
Stock Companies Arrangement Act (Dibbs’s Recon-
struction Act). That Act enabled the wealthy
shareholders in banks and other financial institu-
tions to plunder their N. S. Wales creditors unmerci-
fully. I know a wealthy institution, also a wealthy
family of millionaires, who both held a large number
of shares in a pastoral company that took advantage
of that Act several times. The former got rid of a
liability of about £60,000, while the latter got
rid of a liability of about £190,000.
This Act, after being renewed and extended sev-
eral times, finally lapsed in 1899. In 1906, at the
instance of certain financial institutions, the then
Liberal Government passed an Amended Companies
Act. That Act practically resuscitated and per-
petuated Dibbs’s Reconstruction A,ct. There was
serious opposition to the bill, and, in order to allay
it. provisions were inserted,, compelling all foreign
companies trading in N. S. Wales to register a list
of debenture holders and shareholders in Sydney,
the object being to enable the creditors of these
reconstructed institutions to combine for the pro-
tection of their interests, as previously these con-
cerns had almost invariably refused to supply a
list of their creditors when they contemplated a
fresh reconstruction. A large number of companies
complied with the law, and registered lists of de-
benture holders and shareholders with the Registrar-
General ; but a number failed to do so, and included
in the latter were those companies which had re-
constructed or compromised, and some of which had
defrauded their N. S. Wales creditors. Instead of
compelling those companies to comply with the law,
the Wade Government hurriedly passed an amended
bill through Parliament (it was passed through the
Lower House at one sitting), entitled the Companies
(Amendment) Act, 1907. This Act repealed the
provisions in the Act of 1906, compelling these
companies to register in Sydney a list of debenture
holders, and practically of shareholders also, thereby
conclusively showing that the interests of N. S. Wales
citizens were of minor importance to the interests
of the wealthy shareholders of these reconstructed
concerns.
It is significant that for some time past a large num-
ber of companies, some registered elsewhere, have been
opening brant ' cs in Sydney. As the law at present
stands in N. S. Wales (thanks to the so-called Lib-
eral Government), when the inevitable reaction ar-
rives, the crisis of 1893 will be repeated—probablv
with intensified results —and the citizens of N. S.
Wales will again have to submit to the plundering
process unless the Commonwealth Parliament is
given power to prevent it.
«
An Instance of How an Ass is Made
Doubly an Ass.
The protest of “Common Law Side” :■ —-
A suit tried in Sydney last week exemplified the
way the Law in regard to breach of promise is
misused. The plaintiff was an ex-liotel employee
who owned to 30, who had, as she put it, “lost all
she had ever loved,” and whom the Chief Justice
described as a user of “coarse language” and “a
woman of no great refinement.” The charmer, whose
fickle ways had, she claimed, damaged her to the
extent of a thousand pounds sterling, was a 47-year-
old up-country clerk. In her evidence-in-cliief the
lady swore that defendant had assailed her virtue,
but had been beaten off. The clerk left this aspect
of tile trouble alone till he was tackled about it in
cross-examination; then he declared that there had
been persistent impropriety. The lady went into
the box and lodged what the papers next day termed
“an indignant denial.” And “the jury, after a brief
retirement, found in favor of the plaintiff, and
assesses damages at £5.” If the good and true
lieges who pronounced upon this case believed that
the defendant had promised to marry the plaintiff
and had then gone back on his pledge, thus causing
her to lose her position, break her heart, and feel as
though a death had taken place—all of which catas-
trophes she claimed had smitten her owing to his de-
fection —a solatium of five sovereigns was grotesquely
inadequate. Five hundred would hardly have met
the situation. If, furthermore, the jurymen believed
that she was a virtuous woman, and that the de-
fendant when he swore to the contrary was lying,
a five-pound note would no more recompense her for
the intolerable wrong she had suffered than a sick
headache. As to her slanderer, in that case the con-
fiscation of his entire real and personal estate, fol-
lowed by a thorough public boiling, would scarcely
avail to purge his guilt. Either, then, the jurors
who considered this case were stark mad, or
they paid no particular attention to the evi-
dence of either of the romanticists. The factor
which chiefly weighed with them was, evi-
dently the consideration that the defendant
had played the part (to borrow barrister Broom-
field's phrase), of “a sort of wayback Lothario.”
In other words, they fined him £5 and costs, for a
lapse of which the Law takes no cognisance. In so
doing they were not acting differently from a thou-
sand other juries. The custom is quite familiar;
wherefore the Supreme Court is habitually used as
an engine for punishing citizens for being Lotharios,
and the breach-of-promise law is turned into a
species of matrimonial agency, to force reluctant
gentlemen into the arras of ladies who have “lost
all.” Some day a body of sensible legislators will
provide that unless a philandering female has been
seduced under a promise of marriage, or has been
strung on, year after year, and has thereby lost other
chances of desirable marriage, she shall have no
cause for a breach-of-promise action against any
philandering male. Till that is the lav/, absurd suits
like the one just discussed will continue to arouse
the gratification of Costs and the derision of the
public.
The loss of the inter-State liner Yongala,
with something like 120 lives on board, will
remind a good many thousand people, on
April 26, that, though they are Victorians,
or South Australians, or Sydneysiders, they
are vitally interested in what happens on
the Queensland coast. When one of these
inter-State carriers goes down it is an Aus-
tralian disaster —not merely a Queensland
disaster, or a South Australian catastrophe
—and the laws that govern the traffic should
be Australian, too. Queensland may be
doing everything that it ought to do to safe-
guard life on its coast, and to see that the
dependents of the seamen who are drowned
get fair insurance money; but, in the light
of a disaster such as this, it is easy to see
that the matter should not be left wholly
to Queensland. The other Australians who
are vitally interested should have a say in
the matter as well. That means, of course,
the extension of the powers of the Common-
wealth —such an extension as the people will
be asked to sanction on April 26.
At the annual meeting of Australian Cham-
bers of Manufactures, held in Tasmania,
Ludowici, of Sydney, backed by Pratten,
of the same swollen village, moved for the
encouragement of closer bonds, commercial
and national, between Australia and Amer-
ica. But the parochial majority fought shy
of “embarking on the turbulent sea of inter-
national politics,” as one or two delegates
put it, and Ludowici moved in vain. Yet,
as the A.N.A. is silent on this matter, and
as the Commonwealth Government is ab-
sorbed between the Coronation and the fight
with the Insects, the Associated Manufac-
turers might have made a name for them-
selves by taking the lead in promoting an
entente which all far-sighted Australians
have in mind, and which all Australia will
be discussing to-morrow or the day after.
The Federal Progressive Land Tax is getting
in first-class work in Victoria. In the
Western District, “Salmon” Wilson left
his children a cluster of big stations, includ-
ing Ercildoune, Mount Bute, and Coranga-
mite. Ercildoune, 20 miles west of Bal-
larat, is reckoned the finest estate and home-
stead in Australia. It is the show place for
visitors to Ballarat, and has been tenanted
by Governors. One has it just now. Yet
the Wilsons have always lived in England,
only returning once every three years to
fulfil a residence stipulation in their father’s
will. (Old Wilson was a good enough
Australian to say in his will that his chil-
dren should not be away from Australia
more than three years at a time.) So the
three fine estates were just worked for
profit, and the profit was religiously
’Ome. Now, however, the Federal Land
Tax, with its absentee provision, has fallen
with a heavy thud on these places, and they
are all in the market. The whole of Cor-
angamite (near Colac) has been subdivided,
and a lot of it is already sold. Mt. Bute
(near Ballarat) and a big slice of Ercil-
doune, are going the same way. The cut-
ting up of these big estates, (over 100,000
acres altogether) is a splendid thing for the
State. Until recently, the Wilson and
Brydges estates made the stretch of country
between Ballarat and Beaufort a wilder-
ness. For mile upon mile you saw nothing
but sheep, and an odd boundary-rider. Now,
there is going to be a whole army of farmers,
for the land is of the best. And Ballarat,
which needs it badly, will be a great gainer


BEARD’S British - Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
IHARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOCRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining- at present, get intocommunication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
Invincible Oil Engines.
Australian Made. High Grade.
MARINE MOTORS, from 2£ h.p. to 100 b.p., for
speed, semi-heavy duty, or heavy duty.
STATIONARY OIL ENGINES, for farm use. Screen,
hopper, or tank cooled. Vertical, from 2 h.p. to
10 h.p. Horizontal, from 7 h.p. to 65 h.p.
Large stocks kept of Duplicate Parts, Magnetos,
Storage Batteries, Coils, Reverse Gears, Reversible
Propellers, Sparking Plugs, etc.
INVINCIBLE Motors are guaranteed for Five
Years, and that Guarantee is backed by the great
Works at Woolwich Dock, Sydney.
INVINCIBLE ENGINES are Absolutely Reliable
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works: Woolwich Dock, Sydney.
Showrooms: Sydney, 35 Pitt Street; Melbourne
519 Little Collins Street; Adelaide : Bank Street’
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
by the alteration. _ And so, in a larger way,
will Australia, which may badly need these
men for its defence.
♦
Digby Denham, Premier of Queensland,
has supplied 11 reasons why the electors
should vote “No” on April 26. Each of the
11 is as bad as the others. The culminat-
ing “reason” is this—“ The proposals simply
mean that the Commonwealth assumes com-
plete control of all State borrowing.” If
that is so, then the State has already as-
sumed complete control of all private bor-
rowing. Denham’s idea is that, since the
Commonwealth Court may fix wages and
conditions of employment, the Common-
wealth will really decide whether money
may be raised or not. Already, however,
the State Courts and Wages Boards fix
wages and conditions of labor in private
employ; so that, according to Denham, the
State has assumed “complete control” of
private borrowing. Yet if Digby Denham
were told that Denham Brothers, the
buttermen, couldn’t get an overdraft with-
out asking the State, Digby Denham
would certainly reply that his informant
was a liar. This paper is much too polite
to carry the argument any further.
♦
Thus Melbourne Argus, snorting at the
thought of anti-combine legislation:—
Nor can any combination in the world have more
than a temporary influence on prices of the great
staples. The world’s gold supply is one great factor;
and behind all there is the inexorable law of supply
and demand, by which the price of bread and the
price of diamonds are equally determined. Not in-
trinsic usefulness, but desire to have things, and the
supply of the things that are desired, fix exchange
value, which is price.
What does the Argus mean by “temporary”?
The fish rings of certain countries have
lasted just about as long as anybody can re-
member. So also the middle-men of the
meat trade are always in combination more
or less to keep up the retail price and squeeze
illegitimate profits from the consumer. The
Yankee Meat Trust, if unchecked, would soon
be in a position to make its own law of sup-
ply, without any fear of losing its grip of de-
mand for a staple article of food. The de-
mand for bread likewise continues, utterly
regardless of price up to a certain limit; anil
a gigantic wheat combine could raise the
price of bread for all time with a stroke of
the pen. Workers must eat to live and
work; they can't reduce the prices of the
necessities of life by refraining from buying
them, whereas people can reduce the price of
unnecessaries like diamonds by spending no
money on them. When the Argus talks of
“the inexorable law of supply and demand,
by which the price of bread and the price of
diamonds are equally determined,” it is clos-
ing its hundred Tory eyes to the fact that
there are two sorts of law of demand, and
only one of them —the law of Demand to
Live —is inexorable.
Yested Interests—White-vested interests.
Brilliant piffle of Jokeruthers, dug up
from somewhere, to urge people to vote “ No” on
April 26 :
If a poor plumber wanted to mend a water-tap in Pad-
dington he would have to go to the Federal Government
for a license.
Well, even that is not nearly so bad as a poor
squatter having to part up thousands of his hard-
earned money to various agents before he could
get a State department to do a small land job.
The Six Hatters lie has come home to
roost. Owing to the scarcity of labor in Sydney,
a meeting of city manufacturers was held last
week to discuss matters, and one of the doleful
party told the meeting that recently, when he
was in England, he found it useless to attempt to
induce suitable factory workers to emigrate to
Australia, because they feared being clapped into
gaol “like the Six Hatters.” By-and-bye even
Fat will open his eyes to the fact that honesty
pays best —sometimes.
Attorney-General Hughes has stated that,
if the Referendum vote goes “ No,” the Naviga-
tion Bill will hardly be worth passing. Following
recent High Court decisions, it is evident that,
unless the Constitution is amended, the Federal
law will be inoperative in respect of any vessel
trading wholly within a State. A steamer trad-
ing from Brisbane to Richmond River would be
under Federal law; from Richmond River to
Sydney—a much longer run—she would be under
State law. It is clearly in the interests of the
large part of the population which is vitally in-
terested in the passage of an up-to-date Federal
Navigation Act to see that Australia votes “Yes”
on April 26.
Dick Sleath, one-time M.L.A. in the Ma
State, recovered £IOO damages last week from the
S. M. Herald for libel, and, strangely enough, it
was over his old colleague. Ferguson, with whom
he was associated in the Broken Hill strike trials
of ’92, that the trouble occurred. Last October
Sleath was speaking on behalf of the Labor candi-
date who was opposed at Newtown by Ferguson,
now a “ Liberal.” Someone interjected : “Fer-
guson’s a rat”; to which Sleath retorted: “I
won’t abuse Ferguson.” According to the Herald,
Sleath went on to say that Labor’s abuse of its
opponents would lose it the election. Sleath
denied having said anything of the sort, and com-
plained that the published statement had been
the cause of his losing lucrative employment in
Labor circles. The jury sympathised with him
to the extent of £IOO. That is the second time
the Herald has fallen in over Sleath. Last
time it was a £SO verdict.
From P. R. Allen, long in business in
Port Darwin :
A newcomer to the Territory gets some angry words
into The Bulletin of MarchS. “Local merch mts,” he
says, “buy the most inferior stuff imaginable,” and
“ goods condemned in the South are considered good
enough for the North.” There is not a particle of truth
in this, as I know my people (and I feel that I can say the
same for the co.’s European competitors) handle
only leading and best brands of groceries. The
wet season is a very trying time for storekeepers
in the Far North. Currants and raisins quickly
breed worms, and bacon will in three days’ transit to
country parts develop maggots. I have had to condemn
bacon time after time, and have had it sold for pigs’ food
or destroyed. Every care is taken to ensure only good
goods being sent out, and in the instance stated by the
angry correspondent, I think the supplies must have
been some time in transit. Darwin merchants are also
handicapped by the irregularity of the steamer service.
The Burns-Philp line is the only one whose boats run to
a regular time-table. The consequence is, three steamers
may arrive at Port Darwin in the same week from the
south, and then not another for from three to four weeks;
so storekeepers have to keep unnecessarily large stocks
on hand, which, as mentioned above, isn’t calculated to
improve them.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs.’
Criterion “The Woman in the Case.”
Adelphi “ The Bad Girl of the Family.”
Palace “Luck of Roaring Camp” (pic-
tures).
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park .. Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Waltz Dream.”
Theatre Royal “ The Belle of Brittany.”
King’s “In London Town.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plavs.
♦
“The Woman in the Case,” a drama by
Clyde Fitch, was produced at Sydney Cri-
terion on Saturday night. It is more har-
rowing than a Liberal forecast of the re-
sults of “Labor domination.” Why theatre-
goers should so love episodes which tear
their emotions to shreds it is hard to say.
Yet so it is. A dramatist who chose as his
theme the winning of a Tattersall’s sweep
by an indigent suburban dentist, who por-
trayed the exultation of the family and the
envy of their friends, and who finally showed
them happily packing for the Coronation,
would do no good for himself. It is in
people’s ghastliest experiences that the boom
lies. Bearing this in mind, the American
playwright has, in the work under review,
laid on the agony with. a trowel, and the
box-office returns of the past year show his
wisdom.
The plot hinges on a pre-marital flirtation
of Julian liolfe. In the days of his youth
Rolfe thought he loved a member of a musi-
cal-comedy sextette. It took him 10 days
to find that he didn’t. lie then backed out,
leaving some undated love-letters in his
wake. Instead of feeling grateful to the
lady for violating all the established conven-
tions of the game by not writtiug him for
breach of promise, he proceeded at the
earliest opportunity to blast her character in
the eyes of his friend, Philip Long. The
girl loved Long, and he loved the girl so
much that, having given Rolfe his word not
to marry her, he shot himself rather than
face life without her. Just as Hell is re-
ported to hold no fury like a woman scorned,
so earth holds none like a show-lady who
has been robbed of her lover by an officious
male chatterer. Claire Forster, despite the
calamitous shade of her hair and various
other unpleasant attributes, wins a certain
sympathy in her efforts to get Julian con-
victed of murdering Long. He was the in-
direct cause of that lamentable weakling’s
decease, anyhow. He is a congenital prig
and fool; and her failure to remove him
from a world which he does not adorn is in
no sense due to his own efforts. His irre-
sponsibility and incompetence in the trouble
which he has brought on himself are com-
plete and exasperating. Not till the situ-
ation is absolutely howled in his ear by a
lawyer does he realise that he is in any real
peril at all. And then he has no suggestion
whatever to offer. His salvation is due to
his wife, who traps the inebriated Claire
into an admission that Long committed sui-
cide.
* * * *
Margaret Rolfe (Miss Mabel Trevor) is
a queer mixture of hysteria, and cool resolu-
tion and courage. It is hard to credit that
the capable lady who masquerades suc-
cessfully as a demi-mondaine, and cheerfully
endures the company of Claire Forster’s ap-
palling “gentleman friend,” was liable to
such an uncontrollable outburst as overtook
her when her husband was arrested. That
being so, the onlooker conceives the irritat-
ing suspicion that his feelings are being
butchered to make an actress’s tour de force
of emotionalism. Miss Elinor Foster pro-
vides a likely picture of the dreadful Woman
in the Case. She might be more alluring;
but the fact that not one of those whom she
enslaves was a difficult mark goes to justify
her characterisation. Julian, the pain-
fully futile and self-righteous hero, does as
well as can be expected. G. K. Souper
plays the unpleasant part. Miss Nelly
Mortyne is excellent as Margaret’s mother.
So also is Hugh C. Buckler, the lawyer; and
there are some well-played minor parts.
** * *
By the time these lines impact the public
eye, “Via Wireless” will have fied Melbourne-
wards, and the stage carpenters at Her
Majesty’s will be toiling overtime to get
“Jack and the Beanstalk” ready for presen-
tation on Saturday night.
* * -* *
While this issue is, as it were, hovering
between earth and heaven —-or, to be less
poetical, but more precise, between the Re-
ligious Editor and the Printer’s Devil —George
Marlow, Ltd., is having a house-warming at
the new Adelphi—the big theatre which pro-
poses to thrive where Sydney’s Paddy Mar-
ket used to bloom. Marlow’s intention is
evidently to get in ahead of Bruce Smith,
with Blood, and his first thrill is “The Bad
Girl of the Family,” one of the bedroom
dramas which have lately come along in a
muddy flood.
** * *
At the Palace Theatre, on Saturday and
Monday, Sydney Stage Society, with the
valuable help of the only Titheradge, did its
best with Ashley Dukes’s four-act comedy,
“Civil War.” To a certain extent it was
civil war. On the opening night, some fool-
ish gods interrupted to such an extent that
Titheradge threatened to retreat, and leave
the field to the enemy, unless they behaved
themselves. With a mixed professional
and amateur cast, it is almost impossible to
get an even rendering of a play; and this
version of Dukes’s comedy wasn’t the glori-
ous exception to the general rule. A few
passages were admirably handled, and won
generous applause; in one of them Tither-
adge was concerned, and Lily Titheradge
was partly responsible for another. For his
plot, A. Dukes takes two violently antagon-
istic people—one the usual obstinate old
nobleman, and the other a “Socialist.” The
son of the first, and the daughter of the
second, regardless of anything but the course
■ —or curse —of true love, get married, and
hopelessly complicate the situation. As Sir
John Latimer, the obstinate old bart., Tither-
adge was excellent. S. Scarlett acted vig-
orously as John Shannon, the honest but.
accursed “Socialist” ; Lily Titlieradge played
sympathetically as Margaret Shannon, the
capturer of the bart.’s son; and Leonard
Willey, as the son, scored well several times.
“ THE WOMAN IN THE CASE,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Third Act Curtain. Mabel Trevor (as Margaret
Rolfe) fondles the bad lady (Elinor Foster).
“The Grey Kimona,” billed as Australia’s
pioneer musical comedy, was played at Syd-
ney Criterion on two nights last week. It
proved to be faithful and true to type. The
charming numbers of F. Wynne Jones might
be run in to any Williamson or Clarke-Meynell
musical production without a solitary critic
knowing the difference: and D. H. Souter’s
libretto is as good as the average imported
“book.” The piece was handicapped by a
mostly-amateur interpretation. The comic
Irishman of R. B. Orchard, for example,
was very trying in spots. This particular
variety of Celt is so familiar to playgoers
that, unless he is portrayed by a Master, he
stands in chronic peril of having clods flung
at him. Miss Amy Murphy sang delight-
fully as the Daimio’s daughter, and so did
Sydney Gordon, baritone and lover. Miss
Pressy Preston was thoroughly alluring as
Comet Bright. The hit of the show on the
comedy side was scored by Arthur Woods,
whose Executioner was one of the most hil-
arious Japanese products the writer has met.
The chorus sang excellently, even if it didn’t
always know what to do with its feet.
m» * *
Leipzig, a conjurer who makes a success
of the unsensational business of card-
juggling, stood at the footlights of Sydney
Tivoli on Saturday night, and spoke to the
audience in the usual kind, patient manner
peculiar to conjurers. The chief interest
of the show, however, is still supplied by
R. A. Roberts, who quick-changes his
clothes, his speech and liis manner, and
rattles through the Dick Turpin play for
live characters. The rapidity of Roberts
is almost uncanny; one has the uncomfort-
able suspicion that he owns five fully-
dressed bodies and a transferable soul, which
changes trains behind the scenes like a
seasoned commercial traveller, and leaves
four silent forms huddled in the dark whilst
it acts and enjoys life in the fifth out where
the limelight shines. The commonplace ex-
planation, probably, is that Roberts has
merely learnt how to do without buttons.
Other names that lend enchantment to the
bill are Florence Challis, Alexander Prince
and Morris and Wilson.
** * *
Each year Wirths’ Circus finds it more
to unwind its programme to a Syd-
ney audience in lime to permit everybody to
reach home at a reasonable hour. Every
visit sees at least one more big turn added
to a list which already seemed to have
reached the limit, until to-day the Wirth
Bros, can claim to have discovered the use-
ful art of squeezing a quart of entertain-
ment into a pint-pot of time. On Saturday
night, when the Sydney season was com-
menced at Prince Alfred Park, 25 items,
many of them requiring the most intricate and
careful fixings, raced against the clock, and
beat it. The “star” turn was provided by
the Flying Jordans, and the claim of the
management that it is the greatest act of
its sort in the world is near enough vertical
fact to be accepted. There was more thrill
to the square inch of that performance,
most of it away up in the air at the top of
the tent, than there would be in 10 civil
wars led by Bruce Smith and “Solemn” Lee.
Perhaps the most graceful wire performance;
ever seen in Sydney was given by The Adelia
sisters and brother George, while as acrobats
the Frantz party needs only to be artisti-
cally dressed to challenge anything in its
line of revolving business ; and if Danny
Ryan's Americans, Miss Millie Dagmar’s
dogs, Philip Wirth’s horses, Kitchen and
Foy’s horizontal bar work (an alteration
in their costume, too, is urgent), Marco’s
wild animals, and Quira Meers’s horseback-
ism, cannot keep the ringside crowded for
the. nest six weeks, it will be because a sus-
picion is abroad that the blood-sweating hip-
popotamus is a State Fright in an advanced
stage of the disease.
** * #
West’s, at Sydney Glaciarium, is booming
with Fergus Hume’s success, “The Mystery
of a Hansom Cab.” Ever since the drama
has been running across the screen, money has
had to be turned from the doors. In addition
to the Mystery there is the usual varied
programme; but the items are changed so
frequently these nights that it is hardly
worth mentioning them. Anyhow, for the
present they are completely eclipsed by the
Cab story.
** * *
George Marlow, Ltd., will produce a picture
drama at the Palace Theatre on, Saturday
night. It is the film which recently at-
tracted such crowds to the Melbourne Glaci-
arium, “The Luck of Roaring Camp,” as
played before the machine by Marlow’s own
company. There are 4000 feet of thrills
and nerve bumps in it.
** * *
One of the most charming features of
Spencer’s recent programmes at the Lyceum
was “Historic Spots of Old London”; the
man who superintended the taking of those
pictures knew the old place, and loved it.
Exactly what it is no man knoweth, but the
energetic and versatile Spencer has some-
thing extra unique up his sleeve, and hints
darkly at a coming announcement of gigantic
tonnage.
** * *
The Hawaiian singers and dancers will
commence their Sydney season at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall on Saturday night. A new
thrill is promised by the lady who performs
the weird hula —the national dance of
Hawaii.
** m *
“The Belle of Brittany,” late of Sydney,
met her predestined young man under the
Trysting Tree at Melbourne Royal last Sat-
urday night, when the shrieks of a. great
multitude welcomed the “Arcadians” Co.
back to their old camp. The Belle in ques-
tion, as was recently remarked by this jour-
nal, has nothing of Brittany about her, nor
is daffodil time in the 18th century sug-
gested by the fact that the maid to an alleged
marquis of the old noblesse dances in a some-
what-hobble skirt. There is no air of by-
gone romance, no color of ancient probability
in the manner of the opera. But the ma-
terials for a satisfactory entertainment are
there. The dressing is charmingly decora-
tive, Goatcher’s two scenes are first-class, the
music is sweetly graceful as a rule, and, al-
though the chorus ladies are not strong in
beauty and vivacity, they sing like good Aus-
tralians.
* * * *
What there is in the story might very
well have been elaborated. Percy Clifton,
who appears to be a miller with money in
the bank, has a jolly wife (Miss Kavanagh),
and an only daughter (Miss O’Connor), and
the daughter is under orders to marry a dis-
tinguished cook (Charles Stone), who comes
from Paris to claim his tender morsel. The
strange chef from the. French metropolis
doesn’t* impress the maiden, however. She
kisses him, but, as he feelingly -complains,
there is no chutney in her caress. The
miller holds a mortgage or something on the
neighboring chateau, and, unless the giddy
old marquis “turns up” at once to redeem
the miller’s document, his chateau will be
lost to him. So the marquis, who is Tom
Walls, does turn up, with Miss Gilliam as his
maid-in-waiting, and he takes possession of
“the whole dam show.” Things are mostly
dam or dev’lish with the bottle-nosed noble-
man. His allusions are apt to be horsey,
and his accent sounds as though he must
have been running a two-up school at Ver-
sailles. He forgets his connection with the
plot, and introduces an illegitimate variety
“turn” of modern design, humorous for a
while, but unpardonably long and interrup-
tive. Otherwise the marquis is an amusing
anachronism. He pelts the other characters
with gags, and wants to know why a cold,
deserted sausage should be surrounded with
parsley, to “kid” the poor devil that it is
living in the country. And so forth. In
spite of the marquis the plot hangs together.
Ilis son captures the miller’s lovely daugh-
ter, and thus saves the family estate, whilst
the accomplished chef reverts to his jealous
former sweetheart (Miss Gilliam), iu con-
sideration of the malevolent genius she dis-
played in tampering with his noblest dish.
Also, a local heiress, who was intended for
the marquis’s son, pairs off with a falsetto
johnnie in a tall hat.
* * * *
Two new dancers appear in “The Belle of
Brittany.” They are not really introduced
into it. They introduce themselves, one at
a time, without a word of warning, and
dance, and disappear, leaving no trace of
their why or wherefore. . The pretty lady
new-comer shows no special cause for her
importation to a country which is embar-


ħ
m
'—H
in*
y l
ua
44 A
•Sn
Tj
! 4
did
ana til
aKSafißama^:
SO r -
Sac Suit
Costs y;
oU
i'6
?for Cash
h
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Sett dements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
■Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Motoring in New Zealand.
A well-known motorist in New Zealand, when
writing to a relative in Sydney, says the British
car, Wolseley, a product of Vickers, Son & Maxim,
is fast displacing its foreign competitors. Such
news as this should be welcome to every ardent
Britisher, as it is about time a British ear should
command a good market in a British country.
According to the latest English paper, the same
make of car is scoring with equal success in South
Africa, India and the Argentine.*
David Jones, Ltd., have issued an autumn cata-
logue which satisfactorily answers the inevitable “ What
shall I get for Easter?” No woman of spirit ever admits
she has a rag to her name. Four times a year she goes
through the same agonising catechism. The autumn
plunge is into coats and skirts j and David Jones, Ltd.,
are prepared to meet the demands of a record rush of
customers.*
rassed with its wealth of ballet talent, and
where many a pair of accomplished leg
grows old in waiting for a pas seul. l>ii
the man-dancer (Dutton Nicholls) is ava -
able acquisition, and his acrobatic gambo
are a feature of the show. It has other
notable items, apart from the audacities o
Tom Walls. Miss O’Connor’s ballad, with
chorus, “When Daffodil Times Come
Round,” is a brilliant thing of its kind. And
the characters, with one or two exceptions,
are suitably filled. Percy Clifton and Miss
IvaA’anagh are almost humanly interesting as
the miller and his wife. Miss Gilliam, in
the soubrette part, is only a little marred by
her affected archness of style; aliss Dait
looks well; and the dandy comte (P- Cory)
is very passable. Charles Stone, on tbe
other hand, seems much too sombre and
matter-of-fact for the, character of the cook,
which is cast in a low comedy mould ; whilst
the performance of Harold Thorley, as the
romantic hero, is even more than usually
perfunctory in style. It is Thorley s mis-
fortune to be unable to show any sort ot
strong emotion on the stage.
** * *
At the Princess’s the cheerful little moral-
ity comedy, knoAvn as “A Message from
Mars,” offers milk of human kindness to
every heart that is taking any. Melbourne
is rolling up freely to get the milk, but the
audiences probably forget to take it to heart.
They just drink it, and rub a little on their
complexions—-or their boots, maybe, lhe
Message is rather crude in composition, and
too direct to be artistic; all the same, it in-
terests the many that objected to being
preached at by the supernatural stranger in
“The Third Floor Back.” In the present
revival Gregan McMahon is the well-to-do
young Horace, who dreams that a bluey-
brown man from Mars doubles, him up with
electric currents, and orders him out into a
cold world to shovel snow. And Gregan is
always likeable —a trifle too dry in his sel-
fishness, uncommonly funny in his dynamic
shocks, and forcible in his regeneration. The
Minnie of Miss Harvey is gushingly art-
less in her manner, and labored in her speech,
yet she does very nicely. Aunt Martha
supports the burden of social dignity Avell
enough. John Hesford is fairly convincing
as the Tramp, and two or three of the slight
character sketches escape unfavorable com-
ment. Among the conspicuous delinquents
the Policeman is awful, and the rather podgy
impersonator of young man Arthur Dicey
invites disrespect. Also the tall, command-
ing person from Mars amounts to a calam-
ity, because of his great importance to the
piece. In the present commentator’s eye,
there is something wrong with his unearthly
elocution, and everything wanting in his
conception of impressive deportment. His
height, however, counts for righteousness in
the easy spectacular part, and the stage ef-
fects which attend him are neatly managed.
“Mars” finishes the present season sometime
next week. On Saturday the Williamson
Dramatic Co. comes along .with “Paid in
Full.”
* ¥tt * *
Students of Australian juvenile precocity
and infant phenomena will find 100 young-
sters performing “The Geisha” at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) just now. The Juvenile
Opera Co. has the stage until Friday only,
and will not appear in “Floradora,” as was
threatened. On Saturday the adults who
dealt with “A Waltz Dream” last year, are
to repeat that melodious German opera ;
or, rather, Florence Young, Roberts and
some others will sing again in their old
parts, and the rest will be changes in the
cast.
At the King’s on Saturday, there was a
passable revival of “In London Town.”
This is the drama of Sims and. Shirley,
made irksome by ponderous comic relief,
which keeps one thinking of mammoths at
play. The mammoths are Miss Russell and
Messrs. Brown and DeVine, who have one
whole,' large, burly scene entirely to them-
selves, besides being pushed into other situa-
tions. The sportive trio leave less than the
normal space for the recreations of Virtue
and the- riots of Vice. Still Virtue, in the
persons of Walter Baker and Miss Beatrice
Holloway, has sufficient room for self-indul-
gence. Walter, as a heart-broken million-
aire in search of a daughter, performs sun-
dry good actions, with all the magnificence
of the very, very rich. Incidentally, also,
he attracts the eye by his wintry hair, ex-
pensive suitings, and a hat reminiscent of
artistic Bohemia. Miss Holloway is a. lady
who emerges from a vulgar slumdom with a
repertoire of sobs, and a filial .yearning. . In
due course she finds her parent, and gives
offence to her blind protector, Arthur Styan.
Styan is the heavy rascal of the show, who
bangs his boy attendant Avith a stick, while
Richard Bellairs and Miss Vera Remee are
cast as a couple of beauties who adopt com-
mon sins as domestic accomplishments. The
scenery is Bruntonic, and the story reeks
of the popular odors of beer and pawnshop.
And, being one of those dramas in which
anything may happei\ its incidents are
many.
** * *
At the Opera House the bill has lost
weight in some respects, and the Football
Dogs were playing a very ragged game the
last time The Bulletin saw them. The
gaps left by recent departures are filled by
such old familiar items as Brown and Robin-
son, and Levinsky. But the. bald-headed
vedding guest is now breathing his last
farewell; therefore Saturday is expected to
bring fresh faces and pastimes new.
* * *
Last week Spencer showed in Melbourne
a film that was the nicest bit of pictorial
pastry. This picture, “The Lad from Ire-
land,” told a story of love in a hearty
fashion, and, besides giving some incidental
snapshots of Irish scenes, was run off to an
accompaniment of* Irish tunes that made
every Hibernian present throb with emo-
tion. There were other pictures, of course,
but for the moment “The Lad from Ireland”
was It.
m* * *
The Talts, at the Melbourne Glaciarium,
have been uncurling a film bearing on “The
Luck of Roaring Camp.” The picture,
which was taken under the supervision of
Mr. “Willie” Lincoln, depicts tbe principal
incidents in the incredible drama. The
fabrication is all right in its way, though
this paper prefers Taits’ occasional displays
of color subjects. Which reminds the writer
that a tinted film of particular beautv Avas
dropped into the programme on Saturday
night. The item referred to some spots in
Maoriland, and was the artistic work of
Rathe FrSres.
** * *
The Joe Blascheck whom Melbourne
knew of yore is back from a long absence in
Britain and elsewhere, ivith a polished plat-
form manner and a tall lady colleague in
“drawing-room entertainment.” The lady
—Miss Wrighton—restricts herself to the
piano stool, where she plays accompaniments
and sings on her own, or in duet Avith J. B.
She is a telling vocalist, with a turn for
humor, and a useful voice. Blascheck, for
his part, is a character actor in a small Avay
—a musical sketcher, a storyteller. In the
Athenaeum Hall, where Mel. B. Spurr used
to give a monologue entertainment, the com-
bined efforts of Blascheck and Miss Mildred
Wrighton should draw the patronage of those
persons Avho take their pleasures mildly, and
are not prone to hearty laughter during
Lent. The two performers have a mile of
items in their several and joint repertoires,
and they vary their selections.
WILL QUINTRELL ,
MUSICAL CON
DUCTOR
AT MEL-
BOURNE
KING’S.
Adelaide’s shows have roused up suddenly.
The Royal wakes from one of its rare
closures with “The Cay Gordons” ; and, as
nothing except melodrama has been seen
there for a long time, the music, gaiety and
glitter are specially welcome. The Troca-
dero has found it time to get out of the
open air, and will presently start again un-
der cover. The Empire has been starring
“Captain Midnight,” and West’s house has
made a feature of the classic tragedy of the
Di Rimini. These pictures go on to Moonta,
Wallaroo, and those parts afterwards.
Yorke’s Peninsula is being looked after by a
Mabel Hardinge Co., which stages “Hands
Across the Sea” and “East Lynne” at each
township. To get back to Town shows, The
Tivoli has a return visit from the biped
dogs, and the inebriated pu- gets his usual
ovation every time he totters into an en-
trance marked “Saloon.” Fasola, too, adds
his illusions to a strong programme. Hap-
pily, he has not brought his lion along. The
front door of the Stock Exchange looks, for
reasons which have never been satisfactorily
explained, right on to the stage door of the
Tivoli, and if a lion hau got out among the
bears and the Bullfinches there might have
been a horrid scene.
An Adelaide police-court case last week
walked straight out of a Crockett story. Husband
and wife, over 70, had been married only three
years, and lived with the lady’s son and his
family He spent his time in running a convent-
icle, and she, apparently, in getting up domestic
rows. When the rows got particularly bad, the
Rev. Newly-nailed called a meeting of his church
and had his lady formally expelled from it on the
ground of Scandal ! Then she sued him for
maintenance ; but when she accused him in Court
of an “unholy intimacy’’ with her son’s wife,
the P.M. shook his head and dismissed the case.
It even had an underclothing joke, in,Crockett's
sprightliest manner. The lady was shown to
have incurred a debt of £2 14s. for “ combs,” arid
the Bench could not see how hair ornaments
could come to such a sum. Then counsel bash-
fully suggested that he “thought it was an abbre-
viation.” (Laughter.)
It is gravely stated, as though the news
were quite satisfactory, that the Customs “be-
lieve that they have closed up one of the breaches
in the immigration restriction policy of the Com-
monwealth,” which has provided means of ingress
for 400 or 500 Chows within the past few years.
Also it is mentioned that the “ full story ” of the
law-evading practices will probably never be told;
but the Minister of Cu6toms “ regards the period
covered by the offences as one of the darkest on
the records.” Too much or too little is said. The
500 Chows who have come into Australia through
a breach in the legislative wall didn’t walk here.
They had to be shipped, and the discovery of the
means whereby they evaded the Customs suggests
a knowledge of a shipping company’s complicity
in the fraud on White Australia. Why is the
story of “one of the darkest periods in the
Customs records” to be kept dark?
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Parisine” : Williamson regrets he cannot persuade
Sarah Bernhardt to come to Australia. This proves
she is good yet, at 66 —and her enormously successful
American tour, just ended, is evidence on the same
point. This visit to Monsieur Sam was a brilliant
defiance of Frohman and all the Rings. At New Or-
leans they absolutely shut her out, and she per-
formed in a tent. Before leaving New York she
charmed critics and audience alike with a perform-
ance of Rostand’s “Woman of Samaria,” in which
Christ and the Apostles are introduced. For some
years she has regularly acted this in Paris, in Holy
Week, and sometimes on Good Friday nights. The
play is in the Melbourne Public Library—all in
verse. It would be a fine piece of work for anybody
but Rostand, but is far below “Cyrano” and “Chanti-
clgre” as a work of art. Sarah these days is a
great-grandmother. Her son Maurice is a grand-
father —at 47. He it was to whom the lady was
pleased to refer as “My little accident.” Of course
he is very strict, like Dumas Fils. Maurice was
nearly a man when Sarah married Damala. There
have been plays of the Prodigal Daughter, and Prodi-
gal Father. But nobody has tackled the Prodigal
Mother.
Melbourne is to get its first experience of a “Reper-
tory Theatre” under business-like conditions. Gregan
McMahon, who ran “The Players” in their palmiest
days, and gave promise of establishing a school of
modern comedy acting until he threw up the job to
take a touring engagement, has formed rational
plans. He asks for no Government endowment or
backing from private guarantors, but is practically
starting a school for amateurs with a Repertory
Theatre purpose. Plis pupils will as soon as pos-
sible be put into rehearsal for three plays to run for
four nights each. Ibsen, Galsworthy and St. John
Hankin are to be tried in the first place; and the
best professionals available will be asked to do what
work is beyond the amateur strength of the organi-
sation. The business management is to run on
the lines of the Glasgow Repertory Theatre. The
price of tickets for each performance will be 65., 3s.
and Is. at the doors, but ardent supporters will be
invited to take parcels of coupon tickets at reduced
figures. There are said to be fully 4000 persons
hungering for repertory plays in Melbourne.
McMahon reckons that if he can get 100 of them to
buy each a parcel of tickets, he will have all the
assured support absolutely necessary for each season.
He is concluding his present engagement with the
“Message from Mars” Co., and will then devote all
his energies to the new scheme.
The “revue,” a form of entertainment supposed
to be confined to Paris, is getting a hold in London
at last. A revue is a kind of pantomime, with
all the topical allusions left in, and all the fairy-
story and children’s element left out. If one were
presented in Australia just now, it might show
test-matches with Japan, or Douglas Mawson depart-
ing for the Pole by airship; and the comic songs
about the Referenda would be sung by someone made
up in the likeness of King O’Malley, or Rupert
Clarke, or Judkins, instead of by a red-nosed Dame,
who is the improbable mother of a fairy prince.
The background of Girl and Glitter is the same in
both cases. The latest London revue runs about an
hour, and is cheekily entitled “By George!” its
author being “young George” Grossmith.
The Sydney Brough whose death was cabled last
week had no interest for Australia, apart from the
fact that he was a cousin of the late Robert Brough,
and a brother of Percy Brough. Percy is dimly re-
membered as a tall and rather lumpish young actor,
who appeared in the first Australian production of
“The Liars,” 13 years ago.
Howard Chambers, who first took up professional
singing with John Fuller in Auckland (M.L.), died
lately in ’Murka. He was with Rickards in Aus-
tralia for a time, and for eight years or more
was chief baritone with a Boston co. and other
American combines.
It was bound to come! The Yic. A.N.A. has
passed a resolution that the Government be asked to
appoint a censor for moving pictures. It has been
brought home to the A.N.A. that thousands of girls
with brief frocks and hair in plaits visit picture-
shows in Melbourne and suburbs, and it has been told
with bated breath that some of the views are calcu-
lated to bring the Blush of Shame to the Cheek of
the Young Person. The cheek of the young person
of to-day is a matter of public concern.
H. P. Lyons, the patriarch of Australian advance
agents, is again, at 70, in harness. . He has gone to
Westralia, to meet Nicola and Company, and pilot
them through the States.
Photos of the singers whom Melba has engaged'
for her grand opera venture in Australia support the
statement that they are expensive persons of artistic
distinction. The women show good looks and style.
Wayda, a dramatic soprano, has appeared at Covent
Garden. A pretty. Russian lyric soprano, Marie
Axarine, is known outside of Russia. The principal
contralto, Marie Ranzanberg, is a mighty fine woman
with a big repertoire of principal parts, including
Carmen. Another contralto is Elenora De Cisneros,
an Italian ; and it is to be hoped the ladies will get
along nicely together. Melba, anyhow, is not the
star to permit any serious disturbance which she
doesn’t herself originate. The tenors of the co. seem
sure to fill the bill. John McCormack, the Irishman,
has a renowned voice and a merry eye, whilst Albert
Quesnel, the second tenor, is said to be generally
adored in suffragette circles. As for the conductor,
his name speaks for itself —-Angeline! No orchestra
or chorus could fail to be inspired by it.
Kitty Campion, sister of the better-known Gertie
Campion, formerly of the Pollards, has left
Maoriland for two years’ training in Europe. Calve
enthused over her voice, the Taits took her up,
Auckland gave her benefit concerts, and enough
money has been supplied to pay fees and exes, for
awhile.
“0.K.”: Ethel Irving seemingly has scored an-
other notable success in “The Witness for the De-
fence,” wherein she is associated with George Alex-
ander at the St. James’s (Fogville). Her part has
a wide range of histrionics, and she is said to
go higher in tragedy than she ever went before.
“Beautiful and truthful,” the Times calls her per-
formance. Ethel Irving is as intensely natural in
dramatic effect as Margaret Anglin, and withal she
is more powerful and more decorative in style than
the American actress. There is a grave doubt
as to whether the pieces she is to bring to Australia
will appeal to the multitude that stayed away from
(say) “The Thief,” and is rarely attracted to “so-
ciety” comedy-drama; but there is no doubt that
the star will captivate her audiences. A great
actress is not necessarily interesting all the time.
Miss Anglin, who was almost great, lacked personal
magnetism. But Ethel Irving gives fascination to
the character she creates. She is the finished ar-
tist, as many are, in vocal exnression, facial ex-
pression, and the capacity of suiting the action
to the word, as well as in the hundred and one
little details of silent effect necessary to a full in-
terpretation —or elaboration —of the “author s
meaning.” But beyond this, she has the genius
for losing herself in her work. , The lines of her
part and all its stage directions are telegraphed from
her head to her soul, and her arts become impulses
as she proceeds. The audience is not so much
magnetised and deceived by the actress as convinced
by the woman.
“0.K.”: The musty traditions of pantomime char-
acterisation are getting on the nerves of even the
lads and lassies. They complain of the monotony
of the annual hotch-potch. Boys want to know
why the “principal boy” is always a girl, and girls
remark the fact that every panto, has a “dame’ m
the foreground, and that the stereotyped aged fe-
male is invariably “a man dressed up.” Also the
young of both sexes seem to bo mutually tired o.
“the baron” who pairs off with the dame. His title
worries them. “Why is there always a silly old baron
in a pantomime?” they ask. And the answer is:
“Because there always was.” Our pantos, contain
the germs of nursery tales, which came mostly from
Germany, where every old romance had a baron in it.
So the baron is almost a fixture in Grand Christmas
Annualism. You get him, or something very like him,
in even “Dick Whittington” and “The Forty
Thieves” sometimes. As for the dame with
the sugar-loaf head, and the heroic boy, who is
invariably a girl, there is never a rest from
them. The Meynell and Gunn production of “Cin-
derella” was the least conventional treatment of an
old panto, subject that has been seen in this country;
nevertheless, the prince was a girl, and the heroine’s
father was a baron, and the dame-baroness was a
man dressed up. Pantomime manufacturers —stage
manager, librettist, ballet-mistress, scene painter,
property man —are the cringing slaves of tradition.
They do what has been done before, with the least
possible variation. The chief difference between one
panto, and another is in the character of the star
variety turn. This is interpolated, and has nothing
whatever to do with the compilers of the rest of the
entertainment. We hear a lot about the brain force
which is expended in devising novelties for the em-
bellishment of the annual panto., but where is any
sign of novelty in the construction of the framework,
or the arrangement of the fooling ? The people
responsible for the eternal repetition of she-boys, he-
dames, bottle-nosed barons, and long-drawn-out
marches, may not be actually incapable of original
ideas, yet they are evidently unable to make new
moves. Why not introduce the thin end of a
wedge of human interest into panto., and try also
the novelty of bringing on a wandless fairy, with
mystical effects? The fairy queen, who just walks
on with a long stick, and sings a cheap, sentimental
ballad, is as foolish an anachronism as _ the gnome
king, who tries to look like the Devil in “Faust,”
and is finally lined up with the rest in a medley
chorus. There is no work of imagination in a
modern panto, show. Everything is traditional,
matter-of-fact.
Among the very few stock players who performed
with G. V. Brooke, and are still living, are Mrs.
Gladstone and Mr. and Mrs. William Ryan. Mrs.
Gladstone lives in the Old Colonists’ Homes, near
Melbourne, and, at 81, is a bustling little lady, to
be found mostly in her garden. Another old lady,
not an actress,' in the Cottages, arrived in Victoria
in the early ’so’s. One of her vivid stories is about
the Queen’s Birthday ball, at which Governor Hotham
gave his guests “Colonial” beer out of bedroom jugs,
instead of champagne and spirits, and caused a fear-
ful commotion thereby.
It takes a Liberal leader to show the de-
based Labor person points in the matter of close
reasoning, old-world courtesy and so forth.
F’rinstance, according to S. M. Herald (30/3/’ll):
At the meeting addressed by ex-Premier Carruthers at,
the Paddington Town Hall, some of the interjections
were of a personal nature, and in one portion of his
speech the Liberal knight lost his temper, and made
a biting reply to an incerjector. He said: “I would ad-
vise that nian there to hold his tongue, because his
breath smells so bad that I can smell it up here.” (Loud
cheers.)
What a lesson in platform deportment for the
man Hughes and his anarchical following !
The mind of the Tory Fatman runs
naturally to jobbery. The Argus, forecasting
what will happen when the Federal Parliament
has full power to Socialise industries, sees how
everything will be nationalised and all the good
billets—managerships and so forth—will be
handed to Labor politicians. Well, Labor-man
Tom Price got into power in S. Aus. in 1905, and
he and his Labor successors have been in office
ever since, with full power to nationalise as many
things as they pleased. That is nearly six years—
and what Labor man has been given any fat billet
in all that time? Also, McGowen has been in
power in N. S. Wales for a good many months,
and the only fat job he has found for any-
body has been for S. W. Moore, who, instead of
being a Laborite, was a Minister in Wade’s
Government.
WAS OTHELLO MAD?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two Melbourne experts in lunacy have respectively
stated that “Othello was irresponsible for his
action when he killed Desdernona,” and “Othello was
suffering from the variety of mental disorder which
is now termed paronoia.”
Was Othello mad?
When, deluded by lago re the gentle Desdernona,
He believed he had a rival in the favors of his donah,
Was the gory Moor of Venice compos mentis in his
fury?
Would a modern Judge have hanged him with the
sanction of a jury?
Or would some learned members of the medical pro-
fession
Have attributed the murder to a lunatic’s obsession?
There’s an up-to-date suggestion
In the hearing of the question:
Is green jealousy a brain disease —-a malady like
cancer ?
Quite a lot of pretty wives are interested in the
answer,
Was Othello mad?
Was Othello mad ?
Say, was he irresponsible for all his words and actions
When he dreamt of danger lurking in his lady-love’s
attractions ?
Or was it Moorish temper that excited him to
slaughter
On the strength of mere suspicion, as he hadn’t even
caught her
Making eves at his lieutenant under sinister con-
ditions?
Could a Judge accept the dictum of a dozen grave
physicians
Re the question somewhat knotty
Whether jealous men are “dotty,”
Like the cranks in the asylum who are glum or
feather-headed,
And forgetful of the missus, if they happen to be
wedded ?
If those wife-forgetting husbands are insane, and
rightly dreaded,
Was Othello mad?
Was Othello mad?
When a man suspects his angel of intention to
deceive him,
And behaves in such a manner as is apt to make her
leave him ;
When he rolls his eyes like Johnson at each pleasant-
spoken stranger,
And snaps and snarls his hatred like the doggie in
the manger,
He is too absurd to live, and, as he couldn’t be
It were best to kill him gently ’ere he’s guilty of a
murder;
He may wish (it’s only human)
To monopolise the woman,
But if her nature craves for the society of others—
Well, there ought to be an inquest on the hubby
whom she smothers,
And the coroner should put it to the doctors —“Oh,
my brothers,
Was Othello mad?”
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


BEST FOR CHILDREN.
There is no narcotic or other harmful substance
in Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It can be given
to a baby as confidently as to an adult. It is
pleasant to take and always cures, and cures
quickly. It is a favorite with mothers of small
children.*
4/'
JUST TO ADVERTISE! !
A Sixpenny Bottle of CALDWELL’S
INK and a Half-Guinea 14-carat Gold-
Nib, Iridium tipped, twin feed Fountain Pen for J^j
If you can’t buy locally, send Postal Note
direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
The Australian coronating crowds, rushing
from these peaceful and prosperous shores, will
find Loudon giddy with social turmoil. And to
move safely through the smoke and dust of the
fray back to his accustomed sunshine the average
Australian will require to fortify his usually wise
wisdom ; the best fortifier thereof being, as
usual, that spirit of good counsel, D.C.L., the
Whisky of the Wise.*
ĥ
Our 25 - Overcoat
IN Rough Surface Scotch Tweeds; in Light and Dark Greys.
A fine full cut, roomy skirted Coat skilfully tailored ; long
vent at the back suitable for walking or driving.* Comfortable
and warm for any man for Winter Wear.
PRICE 2 51-
Delivered
to You..
Distance makes no difference to the price. If you cannot call, post
us your order. Our Mail Order Department is organised expressly
for Distant Residents; and vve despatch goods at City Prices, for
WE PAY CA RRIAGE
on all Goods except Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchen and
Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth.
Complete Catalogue for Men Post Free.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
opp. Q.P.O.
SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
“The Philistine ” on the Pharisee :
John Longstaff, talking to a Vic. Artists’ Society crowd
about tlie keen pleasure that a painter derives from
travel, “ remembered that while passing through the
glory of a beautiful Mediterranean day in the Straits of
Messina, a fellow-passenger sat reading a novel. His
(J.L.’s) pleasure in the fine color about him moved him to
say to the reader, ‘That’s fine, isn’t it?’ The other
man raised one eye for a moment, replied ‘Great!’
and went on reading as before.” Longstaff’s little
story seemed satirically humorous to the audi-
ence of artists and art-lovers, genuine or make-
believe ; and apparently they didn’t realise that there
could be any other point of view. Yet, to an audi-
ence of habitual booklovers, it would have sounded like
an artist’s unconscious confession of his inability to think
of anything as being possibly more interesting than the
study of his own trade. Nature, from the artist's point
of view, is to be considered only as an education in color
lines, curves and all sorts of “effects.” And,
since Nature is all around him, he is usually talking shop
and almost invariably thinking shop. Moreover, in
Longstaff’s case, the artist was enjoying a comparatively
new scene, whereas the man who just raised his
eyes and said “Great” was possibly a commercial
traveller who had looked at a terrible lot of fine colored
scenery and had often been through the Straits of
Messina, and was more fond of exercising hisimagination
in book-reading than of feasting his limited sense of
color. Besides, the spectacle hud no commercial interest
for him ; from the novel on the other hand, lie was
possibly getting a good business idea —just as Longsiaff
was from the scenery. Why, therefore, the implied note
of superiority in Longstaff’s remarks ?
DRESS—AND LESS.
THE HUSBAND WITH A BAST: “ Hmp! It was
very different with my first wife; she dressed
solely to please me!"
HIS WIFE OF THE PRESENT: “ Indeed; then
that explains why her dress bills came to
next to nothing.”
Those parts of the world where the Chow
is welcomed as a brother are in for trouble
shortly. All through the Chinese winter (which
is our summer) the inhabitants of vast tracts of
country have been dying like flies, of pneumonic
plague. The bubonic horror, with which Aus-
tralia has had some slight acquaintance, is a mere
circumstance compared with pneumonic plague.
Bubonic can only be acquired by injection ;
pneumonic may be borne in every wind that
blows. Bubonic offers a fair chance of a
cure; pneumonic practically none. And, finally,
death from pneumonic plague is incomparably
more agonising than from bubonic. The sur-
vivors in the afflicted districts of Chowdom,
having no time or inclination to either bury or
burn their dead, have been dumping them on the
ice of the nearest frozen rivers, relying on the
remains being carried down stream when the
melting sun of summer transpires. Those rivers
are melting now. In a short time a considerable
proportion of China’s 400 million inhabitants
will not only be breathing the deadliest variety of
plague, but drinking it and washing in it. By
that time there should be enough of it drifting
round the yellow empire to infect the universe.
In the circumstances, if the Commonwealth
authorities aren’t already busy thinking out some
particularly baffling test-sentence in Norwegian
for use on visiting Mongols, they are unworthy
of their hire.
AFTER FIDO'S FUNERAL.
H UBBY: “ Never mind. dear. You’ll
be able to see a bit more of the
baby now.”
WIFIE (weeping): “ Oh-oh! I'd
rather not. Every time I look
at it I shall be reminded of
how poor Fido hated it.”
Our reliable brown brother gave another
illustration of his virtues on the Guthrie during
its last trip down from Singapore and Java. The
ship got into very bad weather, whereupon the
Hindu firemen knocked off work and gave their
whole attention to prayer. In fact, they knocked
off work so thoroughly that the white engineers
had to go below and do the firing. The Burns-
Philp people, who own the Guthrie and run this
line, long ago lost the last remnants of their affec-
tion for the brown brother; but their trouble is
that they are up against the competition of subsi-
dised foreigners who use the cheap, unreliable
person as a habit.
* * * *
A public official in a southern country
town keeps his appendix preserved in a bottle,
and shows the trophy to callers at the office. For
thereby hangs a tale. The owner of this ampu-
tated curiosity went to a
metropolitan doctor, in the
first place, to be relieved of
his complications. Appendi-
citis was diagnosed as the
trouble, and the patient was
operated on, not once, but
thrice. After the third
operation he returned to his
provincial home, feeling just
about the same as before,
plus the effects of three surgi-
gical assaults. Finally, a
local doctor induced the
wounded man to let him
make inquiries into the case
with a knife; and the country
practitioner duly removed
the appendix, which is
now on exhibition. The
moral seems to be that no man should pay for
having had his appendix removed until it is pre-.
sen ted to him by the operator. A dentist shows
the abstracted tooth to his patient as evidence of
good faith, and an appendicitist should be re-
quired to produce the missing link. No appen-
dix, no pay.
MaSterbon, one of the M.L. inland towns
that held its hand up for No-License in 1908,
appears to be sorry now that it spoke. Some
months ago the Cold Tea party’s local organiser
announced that, as the result of inquiries
put to 128 retailers in the town, 82 had
stated that No-License had been good for
business, 16 were indefinite and 14 were
unfavorable; 105 stated that the closing of
the bars had improved the public order and general
moral tone, six were indefinite and one only was
unfavorable. Which seemed clear and altogether
encouraging. On the other hand, the party which
is against Local Prohibition said that business was
going to ruin, and backed the saying with an un-
precedented list of bankruptcies. In the middle
of the argument one Bedford, of Dunedin—the
city of that Nicholls who last year found out more
about Sydney pubs than ever the Oldest Inhabit-
ant knew —arrived on the scene to pat Cold Tea
on the back, and tell it to stick its chest out to
meet the foe at the ballot box in a few months.
Over 1000 people turned up at Bedford’s meeting,
and took it over and cursed what it was expected to
bless. Business men mounted the rostrum and de-
nounced No-License as a failure and a fraud, and,
in place of the anticipated motion that “this
meeting pledges itself to strike out the top line
next poll,” an overwhelming majority declared
itself for the restoration of licenses. The difficulty
is to get the necessary three-fifths majority. For
years Ashburton, another “dry” district, has
returned a bare majority of votes in favor of
restoration, but that is not enough. At the last
poll it was 347 votes short out of a total of nearly
6000 valid votes, and the old Jewish law that
sauce for the goose is Worcester for the gander
hasn’t got many friends in that part of theLoanly
Islands —that is, leaving out the associated forces
of Wowserisin and sly-grog.
A church was built on the quick-lunch
principle at Preston (Vic.) on Saturday, March
25. At C o’clock in the morning 150 voluntary
workers assembled on a vacant allotment. At
night the completed church stood in its place. It
was 65ft. x 30ft., of wood and iron ; and gas and
water were laid on. The particular brand of sal-
vation to be offered in the tabernacle is “ Church
of Christ ” —which is a sort of back-handed sug-
gestion to the other brands that they are affiliated
with the Devil. Still, the other brands gave the
hot gospellers a lift. Included in the crowd were
a dozen Chinese, some of whom did the cabinet-
making.
CONFESSION—THE HUSBAND VARIETY.
THE O NE: “ I'm afraid my wife is beginning to
suspect ”
THE OTHER: "My boy , tell her everything. If
you don't she may guess the truth."
While the Victorian Employers’ Union,
barracking for the agricultural lmplement-
makers, declares for “free labor,” it takes good
care not to swallow its own medicine. Thus,
rule 1 of the General Carriers and Contractors’
Ass. declares that “ members must give prefer-
ence to association members when requiring
assistance” ; rule 2 says “ members must not em-
ploy ” those who are ** not in the association ” ;
and rule 3 declares that they “ must not tender
for cartage being done by another mfember.” On
tho other hand, rule 5 tells them that they “are
not tied to association rates when competing for
work done by non-association contractors ” —they
may knock the horrid non-unionist out just how
they please. The preference to unionists sought
by the workers is a mild thing compared with that.
The Age was rapped sharply by Justice
Higgins the other day, and told that it was
going the right way to make the industrial
trouble which it professes to be so anxious to
stop. The worry arose over what was printed
as an “ official report,” but was really the em-
ployers’ ex-parte statement of what took place at
the Agricultural Implement Dispute Conference.
“ It is my duty,” said his Honor, “to warn the
public that the account is untrustworthy, and
does not convey any true impressions of what took
place.” Also—“lf newspapers are going to
accept ex-parte reports, the ad vantages of these
conferences will be greatly diminished.” But
while things were certainly bad for the Age,
what about the party to the dispute which put
forward a statement that was untrustworthy and
misleading? The Age was deceived, and so, no
doubt, was the public. Now what was the object
of the deceiver ?
The Cold Country Board of Trade, which
has been afflicted with ideas of late, has invited
Australia to give its opinions on some proposals
that are to be considered at a conference at Berne
this year. One of these is that Leap Year shall
be abolished, and, instead, an odd day that is
somehow not to count at all shall be dropped
somewhere into the middle of every fourth year.
Other arrangements are proposed whereby eacli
quarter will consist of two months of 30 days
each and one of 31 days. Also it is
suggested that Christmas Day and New
Year’s Day should be on the same day
of the week ever and always, and that Easter
should be nailed down and prevented from wan-
dering at lai'ge over the calendar. There are
points about the proposals—like there were in the
already discarded daylight-saving idea. But if
the Board of Trade pushes on with them it
will bump against the ingrained conserva-
tism of churchianity, and that is a large
thing of great dead-weight. And, anyway,
the job, though it is picturesque in spots,
would be merely patching the garmant in a
place that doesn’t shriek nearly as loudly for re-
pair as some other parts of it. A country that
has tables of weights and measures and distances
like Britain’s ought to give its attention to that
monstrosity first.
*''***
Seemingly, the natural desire of woman to
get married accounts, for 550 of her having de-
parted from Britain to Salt Lake City within the
past year. Cable headings in Australian news-
papers libel the 550 by stating
that they were “decoyed” to the
land of matrimony, whereas
the propaganda of the Mormon
agents in England appears to be
openly conducted. Possibly they
cherished expectations that it will
prove an “improper gander” (as
the stout lady in “The Arca-
dians” comic opera would say)
when they get to Salt Lake City,
for there is a lingering idea
that the polygamy of Mormonism
used to cut both ways and
provide plurality of husbands as
well as plurality of wives.
Of all professedly Christian
religions Mormonism has the
giddiest reputation, and nobody
embraces it without a thought of
being embraced in return. The
object of the 550 respectable English
village females is clearly defined.
They have gone to get married
individually or collectively. Their
celibate condition forces them to
the faith of Brigham Young,
whilst foolish members of the
British Parliament ask the Home
Secretary whether he intends to
take steps to prevent the exodus.
The same question will be asked
in the Commonwealth Parliament
one day, perhaps, for there are a lot
of Australian girls who would gladly
join a Mormon community in, say,
Fiji. In the meantime the pertinent
suggestion of a tax on bachelors is
not even seriously entertained.
The Royal Mary won’t have
to lie awake o’ nights thinking
out schemes to protect the treasure
contributed by the Maoriland
Maries. The cadge has been a
frost right through the Dominion.
Mrs. Wilford, wife of the energetic
Gent One who mayors Wellington
and has visions of political greatness, had, at
last report, raked in nearly £25; but when
Auckland was asked to parade its Maries, there
weren’t half a dozen to jingle their thrippennies
in the hat.
POLAR ETIQUETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Tuesday.—Tlie cablegrams from Stewart
Island relating to the Scott Expedition have caused a
sensation in London, first owing to the presence of Captain
Amundsen in the Hay of Whales; and secondly, because
Captain Scott has established his second party at Cape
Adare. Sir Ernest Shackleton questions whether Captain
Amundsen is following the dictates of Polar etiquette in
wintering within Captain Scott’s sphere of influence, but
also asks : “ Is Scott following the same dictates in land
ing a party at Cape Adare, which is Mawson’s prospective
base ? ” — Cable.
The moral and the social code
Together make a trying load.
He is a fool who talks with glee
Of “ unconventiouality.”
Mankind will never cease to fret
O’er little points of etiquette.
For some are writ and some are not,
But ev’ryone must know the lot.
Yet what we have will not suffice ;
We need another rule precise :
You must not cut your neighbor’s ice.
n.s.w.
THE DEPORTMENT EDITOR.


m
HI
ssz/t
-
S’
WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
Sunlight Soap has once .
been tried. S
No. 87. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W, NO. 57.
A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION, begotten of sedentary
habits, leads to congestion of ,the brain, liver and other
organs. The best remedy for this undesirable state of
affairs is to stimulate the activity of the whole bodily
economy by taking a wineglassful of “ Uunyadi Janos”
natural aperient water every morning.*
If you want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best 'that money can buy. Razors 7s. fid. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only bv the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from; George or King Streets, Sydney.*
THIS BRITISH-MADE CONFORM HAT
h
FITS ANY HEAD.
This High-class Soft Felt Hat is so
milled that the shape can be fitted to
retain and follow the shape of your
head and give perfect comfort. So that
the brim shall keep firm it is made 2^in.
wide, whilst the crown can be
worn as desired.
The colors we have it in are
Light Grey Middle Grey and
Light and Dark Fawn, with
cord edges British made
throughout, and smart to a
degree.
Price 12/6.
Postage 9d. extra. 1/3 Inter-State.
Phase state size when ordering. ''
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Exclusively Men’s Dress,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Sapphire Smith”: “ Kaysim ” (Bulle-
tin 9/3/T1) writes from New Yark and telE f
the rush for Australian’possum fur in that bam •
By the same mail came an American magazine,
printing the following advt. :
Actress leaving on Southern trip h . a ? 1 /laH
sets of furs bought for stage purposes long
Australian lynx worth SSO each ; would U ke , 9J) earn..
Would send either set 0.0. D. by expiess, 1 '
of examination. Address her manager, >
Pentiac Bldg., Chicago.
Australian lynx! Great gohannas! Methinks
brother ’possum in his time will play many pa ,
now that he has got on the Yankee stage.
* * * *
The barbarous practice of flogging prisoners
for certain offences came in for criticism the ot >w
day by the Judge in a Westraliau case, m wine
a young man was found guilty of an offence on a
child. In passing sentence the Judge remarked
that by law he was compelled to order a flogging
of at least nine strokes of the “ cat.” In this case
it was, he declared, ordering a man to be flogged
for his mental deficiencies. He could have gone
further than that without being wildly inaccurate.
Most of those who are flogged or hanged suffer for
their mental deficiencies, and the retention of the
old form of legal vengeance should revolt a gener-
ation which has given up the old habit of chaining
its mental patients to rings set in the floor, and
driving stakes through the corpses of its suicides.
STONE BROKE.
[?]ISSY: “ You’ve refused him because he can’t
afford to marry! Why, I thought he had
lots of money.”
M ILLY: “Yes, he had. But he squandered it on
my diamonds.”
TOWZER AND WOWSER.
“Here, Towzer! Towzer!”
“Did you call, Miss!”
“ Hamer ” ; With the formation of many
new unions, an old dispute has suddenly grown
big in Australian trade union circles. The dis-
pute is as to whether union organisation shall be
on trade or industrial lines. Many of the old
unions, which are almost exclusively trade unions,
are bitterly opposed to the new unionism, which is
mainly industrial. Yet, apparently, the industrial
union must triumph.
The employees in an
industry in which
engineers, coach-
builders, carpenters,
moulders, enamel-
lers, ironworkers’
assistants and a score
of other callings are
engaged, amongst a
mass of workers who
are nearly but not
quite entitled to
membership in the
unions embracing
these workers, are
frequently entirely
unorganised; and
when they think of
formingaunion, they
naturally consider
that a union of the
wholoindustry would
be best. The exist-
ing societies, how-
ever, usually kick
hard against this. The
Labor Council is the
body to which these
objections mostly come
in Sydney ; and the
Labor Council has so far
side-stepped the diffi-
culty by allowing new
unions if the applicants
are “not eligible for
membership in existing
unions,” but not other-
wise. This rule is, how-
ever, often ignored ; and
the Labor Council has
itself been guilty of some
inconsistency by granting the application of an
industrial body, the Motor and Cycle Workers’
Union, and turning down another, the Harbor
Trust Dredge Employees. The squabble is keen,
and is one of the most distinctive features of
unionism at the present time.
* * * *
“0.C.C.”: The Rev’. Ash (what’s in a
name?) at Dubbo (N.S.W.) :
lie regretted that an additional hindrance to the work
of the churches had recently arisen in Dubbo. lie re-
ferred to the picture shows on Sunday night. Most of
the subjects, he understood, were secular, and some of
them were farcical —this on Sunday nights. The effect
on i lie young people was unsettling and bad, and it was
making light of one of the commandments—to keep the
day holy.
Picture shows on Sunday nights ! “ Secular sub-
jects,” too. Awful! And “farcical.” Heavens!
“Ye maurina whustle o’ the Sawbath —nor lauch,
forbye !”, Then look at the “hindrance to tilts
work of the churches ! ” This competition is too
cruel ! But what sort of a church is it, or what
kind of a creed can it be, that feels itself going
down before the cheap and cheerful picture show?
* * * *
“Aeneas B.” : I went to church on Sun-
day—through no fault of my own. The audience
sang frequently, and the refrain which they droned
immediately before “ the offertory ” was, “Take
all my guilt away.” I gave threepence.
* * * *
From J. H. Watson, concerning the old
record-making" wind-jammers :
“ Joynt” (B. 23/3/T1) is not correct with regard to the
Elizabeth Ami Bright, which he i-ays did the voyage from
Liverpool to Melbourne in 51 days. She left the first port
on June 20 and arrived in Hobson’s Bay September 9,
1860—81 days. No veksel lias done it, I think, in under
60, which is credited to the Thermopylae, 1868-9. One
writer says she did it in,56 days, but I cannot trace tlie
exact figures.
“10-2-4” : During the hearing of a Syd-
ney assault case, last week, the plaintiff, a dentist,
stated that defendant had charged him with
being “no gentleman.” Of course there was
trouble. There are thousands of citizens who
will sustain accusations of drunkenness, defraud-
ing the Government, and immoral conduct gener-
ally, with equanimity, not to say pride. But
hint that they are “ not gentlemen,” and they
see bright red and smash things. What is a
gentleman, anyhow? In Quedn Elizabeth’s
day Shane, eldest son of Con Bacagh O’Neill,
holder, of, the earldom of Tyrone, remarked:
“Being a.gentleman, my father never refusid no
child that any woman naymd to be his.” It is a
point of view that has always appealed to me.
Yet, how many little attorneys and so forth in
our midst would be simply maddened at the sug-
gestion that their soundest claim to the proud
style of “gent” lay in the fact that they had
“ never refusid no child that any woman naymd
to be theirs ! ”
From the Oldest Inhabitant ;
The most curious official census ever taken in Austra-
lia was collected in 1807, and was, of course, confined to
the little bit of settlement around Port Jackson. The
object was to ascertain the population, area of land
alienated, area under cultivation, stock, etc. The enu-
merators found that the total area held by settlers was
181,898 acres, of which less than 14,000_acres were in cul-
tivation ; the number of “settlers” — i.e., persons occu-
pying land—was 708. There were 270 wives, who were
victualled by Government, and 201 “ concubines ” fed by
their protectors. There were 35 legitimate children fed
by Government, and 289 illegitimates fed by th' ir parents.
The Government did not feed concubines or illegitimates.
They just) had to take their chance —and anything else
that their protectors could engineer for them from-the
bleeding country.
* * * *
It is a hopeless business trying to reform
the dishonest milkman by fining him apologetically
time after time ; water is so cheap that this most
cowardly of thieves will adulterate again and
again so long as he sees that each successive con-
viction brings him no nearer gaol. Barnett, S.M.,
at the Glebe the other day, passed a fine of £l5 to
a milk-and-waterman who, it was stated, had-been
convicted six times during the last three months.
The magistrate, m fining iiim £l5, seemed to think
he had done something drastic ; so lie allowed the
chronic mixer 21 days in which to produce the
money—possibly from the water-trough. Con-
trast this With the Adelaide way of doing things.
There the adulterator would have been asked fdr
£2O the first time ; after that, £5O aiid £lOO. Or,
if the initial fraud had been particularly watery’,
lie might have'been asked for £5O for the, first
offence, and told to take six months the next
time. And, after that, the papers would have
been splashed with a bold official advt. notifying
that Cowpump was a persistent swindler who had
better be given a wide berth. But as lie adulter-
ates in a different State, where almost anything
will pass if it is done m the sacred name of Com-
merce, he is merely clattering round, trailing his
seven eon victioijs him and looking for that
trifling £l5.
A GOOD CATCH COVERETH MANY SINS.
“Mu dear lad, what will your father say? It’s
Sunday.”
“Well, last time ’e said, ‘ Where the ’ell’s the
fish?’”
Victoria is to have two public holidays
this year on account of George’s birthday. r i'h<•
Monday following June 3 —if June 3 doesn’t fall
on a Monday—is a statutory holiday. But the
fifth George is graciously pleased to desire that
his arrival into the royal family shall be annually
celebrated on the actual anniversary of the day
when the lucky accident happened to him. June
3 this year falls on a Saturday, so froth Friday
night until Tuesday morning Victoria will be out
of work, so far as a Government proclamation can
make it so.
THE GIRL WITH PURPLE HAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give me a shade that is soft and cool,
And a girl with purple hair,
Whose eyes are kind and who doesn’t mind
How little I chance to wear.
I want her to sit on the silent grass,
With nothing at all to say,
While she puts clear ice in the liquids nice
That she hands to me all the day.
I want her to look like a queen of dreams,
With a neck as cool as snow.
From her carmine lips to her finger tips
As fresh as the winds that blow.
I want her to smile like a goddess fair
When Aurora’s curtains shake,
With a hint of bliss in each lingering kiss
That I’m far too lazy to take.
Her warm, warm heart must be all my own.
And her soul must mate with mine,
While she keeps the flies from my dreaming eyes
And feeds me on frosted wine.
She must stay at the least a yard away,
That I may have perfect rest,
While I seem to mean I would like to lean
My head on her silken breast.
And thus shall I lie on the silent grass,
While the world grows young and fair,
Dreaming of bliss in the unborn kiss
Of a girl with purple hair.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAARI.
THE LAST “HONOR.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A big batch of new justices of the peace will shortly be
appointed. The list of nominations, which numbered
probably 2000, has been considered by the Oiiief Secre-
tary, and it is likely that from 900 to 1000 appointments
will be made. — Sydney D. T., 29/3/’ll.
When Henry Splodge was very young
He joined a small debating club ;
They said he had a silver tongue ;
He thought so too—the silly cub 1
On any night he’d stay up late
Debating any blessed thing;
A trusted Minister of State
He yearned to be and serve his king.
And so he talked till all was blue.
The members of his wretched lodge,
Friends, relatives and fm-men, too,
The victims were of Henry Splodge.
liis great ambitious shrank as he
Drew nearer to his middle age,
And wrapped up pounds of soap and tea
To earn his grocer’s weekly wage.
No longer did he look afar ;
This spacious land his daydreams pent;
He saw H. Splodge the M.H.il.
And idol of a continent.
He gave three Heps, a helping hand
By talking at a dreadful rate ;
Then stood himself, got beaten, and
Decided he would try the State.
But down his fine air-castles fell;
He ranged himself with Wade, V.C.;
But Wade went out and Splodge said, “II I■' ’
And slammed and d d his pounds of lea.
His hair was getting grey and thin
When Splodge around his suburb lore,
And tried ratepayers’ votes to win
As municipal councillor.
He did not gain the longed-for right
To wrangle madly with a mayor ;
Thereafter he was full of spite—
A bitter man with falling hair.
But “ While there’s life”—you know the part ;
God bless eternal-springing Hope'.
Boor Henry Splodge again took heart
Whilst wrapping up his endless soap.
He pulled the wures (I understand
That, scattered round, there are such things);
He hurried up and down the land
And pulled the wir> s and jerked the strings.
Then things like semaphores began
To move when trains are nearly due ;
Along the line the signal ran,
But Henry Splodge he simply flew.
At last the honor came— J.P. !. . .
For bits of string Splodge had to grope ;
He wept a little in the tea,
Then calmed his nerves by wrapping soap.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


MOTICE TO SAWMILLERS.—In stock in Sydney, 2 “ Robey ” 191 t Model Portable Steam Engines-
1N Double Cylinders— 25 Nominal H.P. ( S
OA "KT i nnl XX O /II”
v 87 Brake Horse-Power),
30 Nominal H.P. (105 Brake Horse-Power).
Those requiring prompt delivery for the most up-to-date Portable Engine should communicate with;
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
Circular Quay (East), Sydney ; or 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
WtT “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE."
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.WQ : ___
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Savings Bank of Nkw South Wales
Interest Writ-
Net Paid to ten To Re- Re-
Earnings. Depositors. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1901.. 175,263 3Jp-c. = 158.693 98 16,472 276.062
1902.. 185,493 ,, ~ 166,146 19,347 295,409
1903.. 189,245 3* ~ ~ 167,819 21,426 316,835
1904.. 194,745 4 „ ~190,175 4,570 321,405
1905.. 196,366 4 ~ ~ 193,917 2,449 323,864
1906.. 205,126 3J „ ~ 183,470 4,458 17,198 341,052
1907.. 218,515 3i ~ „ 197,272 7,077 14,166 355,218
1908.. 227,562 ,, ~ 207,674 4,524 15,364 370,582
1909.. 237,036 3* ~ ~213,989 654 22,393 392,975
1910.. 248,393 8£ ~ ~ 222,954 14,893'l
£9500 Transferred to Officers’ > 1,046 394,021
Provident Fund )
This is the “Barrack-street bank.” Nominally it
isn’t a State institution; but in the event of trouble
it is well known that the State would stand behind
it, as it did in the early ’9o’s, when George Dibbs
scrawled his famous “I promise to pay,” and stuck
it on the front door. Its president is the State
Governor, and the trustees are nominated by the
Government. Apparently, by the way, it is a rather
fatal thing for a politician to be appointed a trustee ;
for the Board includes Tommy Jessep, John Kidd,
J. L. Fegan, and O. W. Oakes, all of whom have
lost the number of their Parliamentary mess, leaving
only Arthur Griffith, Cocks and Grahame to repre-
sent sitting members.
There is a State savings bank proper—formerly
worked in conjunction with the post office, and now
extended to include the Agricultural Bank, or Ad-
vances to Settlers Department. It iB a waste, of
course, to have these two concerns instead of one;
but some of the people interested in this Barrack-
street bank have hitherto blocked amalgamation,
mainly on the ground that this iB a Private Enter-
prise concern —which it only is in name—“and be-
cause it owns a reserve fund of nearly £400,000.
A reserve fund of £400,000 is handy, no doubt; but
it would be a great deal better to have as a reserve
fund the whole of the resources of the State —and
that’s what it would amount to if the State took it
over. In the same way there used to be two Savings
Banks in Victoria; but they got over the difficulties
there, and now there is only one—and a very fine
one it is. Yet, while there are two banks in N. S.
Wales, both actually State-guaranteed, far less is
being done to encourage thrift than should be
the case. The old idea was simply to take care of
the people’s savings, lodged in small amounts, and
pay reasonable interest on the total. But the State
can help people to be thrifty by spending as well as
by saving. It recognised that fact when it under-
took the advances to settlers business; and every
State in Australia does it now. But while it is well
to help the man in the country to get his own farm
and homestead, it is equally well to help the man
in the city to get his home. S. Australia has been
doing this for years; and Victoria lately went the
same way. N. "S. Wales is, however, doing nothing
for the city dweller. In S. Australia the city artisan
can get a home of his own by paying £7 12s. Bd.
p.c. p.a. for 20 years. So if the place costs £5OO,
the man pays 15s. per week for 20 years, and the
home is then his, and the landlord is got rid of
for all time. Or by paying larger instalments he can
make the place his own in a shorter period. There
is no reason whatever why the Savings Banks of
N.S.W. shouldn’t bring the same advantages to the
people of Sydney and other established centres.
In 1900 the total amount to the credit of de-
positors with this bank was £4,855,760. The growth
more recently has been as follows: —
1908 £6,686,508
1909 6,847,154
1910 7,263,104
About two-thirds of the funds are in N.S.W. Govern-
ment and municipal securities. A total of £1,049,945
is out on mortgage, as against £1,117,168 at the
end of the previous year. It may be that the bank
finds there is keener competition for mortgages,
and prefers to let somebody else take the risk at
the high levels of value ruling for freeholds. The
balance of the funds, except as to £85,849 invested
in premises, is represented by deposits with various
banks of issue—a very poor use to which to put
over a million of money. The bank itself ought to
be using it, instead of passing on the job of finding
work for it to the private banks.
* * * *
Provident Life Assurance Co., of Maoriland,
but doing business also in Australia :
Expenses Total Carried to
Total and Divi- Out- Assurance De-
June, Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund. ficit.
1900.. £9,797 £2936 £6,195 £9,131 £666 £1,657
Capital forfeited .. .. .. 60 1,597
1901 .. 10,738 3332 6,205 9,537 1,201 396
Assurance
Fund.
1902.. 12,287 3907 7,231 11,138 1,099 703
Capital forfeited 2< l 723
1903.. 13,472 3988 7,791 11,779 1,693 2,416
Taken over from old co. .. .. 612 3,028
Dec..
1904 . 15,289 3434 8,449 11,883 3,406 6,434
1905 15,826 4342 8,402 12,744 3,082 9,516
1906 " 18,350 3650 10,793 14,443 3,907 13,423
1907 .. 20,357 4375 11,775 16,150 4,207 17,630
Premiums on 9500 new shares, £1328 .. 18,958
1908 34,675 4586 15,483 20,069 14,606 33,564
1909.". 39,785 8369 20,650 29,019 1,766 35,330
1910.. 36,342 9118 23,168 32,286 4,056 39,386
In addition to the assurance fund shown above, the
co. claims £3240, an amount by which assets were
formerly written up, and there is also £lO,OOO of
shareholders’ capital. The written-up assets consist
of freehold property which the co. bought at a bar-
gain price. The capital carries a 5 p.c. dividend.
Hitherto the business has been entirely Industrial;
but recently Ordinary tables were issued. The co.
undertakes to pay to the policy-holders in this latter
division at least 90 p.c. of the profits. That .means
that the co. proposes to take 10 p.c. No objection
could be laid against that, if the co. guaranteed
the Ordinary policy-holders to do their business at
a certain maximum rate. In that case, the bargain
would be quite fair. If, however, the co. takes 10
p.c. and doesn’t guarantee anything, the arrangement
isn’t as satisfactory as it might be. If a co. under-
takes to do the policy-holders’ business at a certain
rate or less, and pay any excess out of the share-
holders’ funds, there is a pretty fair guarantee
of economical management. But if there is no
guarantee, it may pay those who run the concern
to take big salaries instead of striving to make pro-
fits of which they take only 10 p.c. A guarantee
should, therefore, be introduced.
In setting out after Ordinary business, the, co. pro-
poses, apparently, to tickle the public s palate with
deferred bonuses" —it “appeared to be the most suit-
able form of assurance for Australasia.” It may
appeal to some ; at the same time the system opened
up the way to such abuses that the U.S. have shut
down on it. In a few words, the System means that)
instead of the bonus being added year by year to
the sum insured, the profit or surplus is set aside,
and if a policy-holder dies before his expectation
period has expired, he gets ho profit, whatever; In
other words, the insurer under this piafi backs him-
Sclf to live longer thart the average. It. is d sort of
half-way insurance. On the one hand, it is claim 1
that the best lives ieceive the greatest benefit .
True. On the other hand, those whd die. soonest,
and have thus had the poorest opportunity of making
other provisiori for their dependents, get the leaSt
consideratipii. It is a plan for further fattening the
pig that haS had the best chance of getting fat
Otherwise, and of fattening him at the expense bf
those who have had the poorest chance.
So far the co. does not distinguish in the Revenue
account between Ordinary and Industrial premiums;
nor are the expenses kept separate. It is, therefore,
impossible to say what the expense rates are. It
ought to be compulsory for every office to show
these things separate. In the bulk the expenses (in-
cluding dividend) amounted last year to over 63
p.c. of the total income. Seeing that this includes
some Ordinary business, the expense rate for the
Industrial business must be simply prodigious. As
far as one can make out, of. every Is. paid for insur-
ance by the Industrial policy-holders, about 9d. goes
■ in expenses. It is most unsatisfactory.
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne)
Invest-
ment
Ordinary Fluctu-
lte- ation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserve.
1900 .. £1066 li p.c. =£110? £BOB £Bl9
1901 .. 2722 34 „ „ 2584 946 306
1902 .. 2886 4 ~ „ 2953 879 1006
1903 .. 2848 4 „ „ 2953 774 314
1904 .. 3255 4 „ „ 2953 1076 3(1
1905 .. 3427 44 „ „ 3322 ilBl 332
1906 .. 3874 5 „ ~ 3691 1364 552
1907 .. 4931 5 „ „ 3691 2604 630
1908 .. 5737 6 ~ „ 3691 4650 602
1909 .. 4804 5 „ ,» 3691 5763 598
1910 .. 4275 6i ~ „ 4060 5978 628
1911 .. 6332 6 ~ ~ 4429 7»81 684
In the days of the boom trustee CoS. sprang up ill
Victoria like mushrooms and paper millionaires.
Among them were these three —-the Colonial Per-
manent, the Australasian Natives’, and the Union,
The cost of administering the three was too great
for the good of anybody—-shareholders or clients—
so a unification was agreed upon ; and Alfred Deakin
not only took part in bringing it about, but became
a director after it had been accomplished, PreSuirl-
ably he didn’t tell the shareholders of the three Cds.
on that occasion that, if they handed their affairs over
to one Commonwealth, they would be robbed and
ruined. As far as can be gathered, he didn’t remind
them that they were passing over a signed cheque
for somebody else to fill in. It was a business
matter, and although Alfred D. never was much of
a business man, he knew too much to insult the
shareholders with nonsense of that sort. It is only
when he is talking to electors that he can venture
upon it. Anyway, the unification got to work, and
there hasn’t been any visible robbery, and the gradu-
ally-increasing dividend shows that there hasn’t
been any ruin. It was heavily handicapped, too. It
started off with a much bigger capital than was
absolutely necessary, and a large part of it was in-
vested in mortgages; and the co. which invested in
mortgages in the early ’9o’s usually invested in
trouble. Fifteen years ago (1896) it still had
£32,451 (book value) of these assets. No doubt
that item had to be written down severely out of
profits; and the dividend was consequently very small
for a long while. Gradually, however, the mortgages
were got rid of, and the money put into other
assets, mostly debentures, Government stock, deposits,
and Collins-street property. This shows the move-
ment in the 15 years:—
1896. 1911.
Liabilities .. .. £132 £9,235
Public securities .. 32,667 33,288
Mortgages .. •• 32,451 8,692
Freehold .. .. 27,632
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 10,044 23,806
The liabilities are mostly mortgage on the Collins-
street freehold. The position, it will be seen, has
been much strengthened, the shrinkable mortgages of
the early ’9o’s having been replaced by Collins-
street freehold and cash (fixed deposits). The co.
does not furnish information as to the value of the
estates in hand or the growth of the business. For
the first time in this year it does, however, say that
the commissions taken credit for are “exclusive of
commissions not wholly earned, after providing for
contingencies.” This, no doubt, means that credit is
taken for only a part of the corpus commission—
the lump commission on the capital value of estates
which have come into the co.’s hands for adminis-
tration. This is the proper practice. Moreover,
mention of provision for contingencies seems to
imply that the co. has another reserve fund up its
sleeve. Altogether, the position is probably quite as
good as it looks. The co. has a paid capital of
£73,822, in shares paid to £l, with an ordinary
liability of 10s.. and a further liability of £1 only
in the event of liquidation—the last a very good ad-
ditional safeguard for clients. Business is carried on
in Queensland as well as in Victoria.
Wright, Heaton and Co. (Sydney), carriers
and suppliers of station goods :
Writ- To-
Dividends ten Re- Re-
Profits. and Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Jan., 1904..2840 10 p.c. = 3500 27,863
July, 1904_.2911 10 „ „ 3500 13,000 14,274
Jan., 1905..5052 74 „ ~2625 2427 16,701
July, 1905..6254 74 „ ~ 2625 3629 20,330
Jam, 1906..6593 74 „ ~2625 3968 24,298
July, 1906..6311 10 „ ~ 3500 2811 27,109
Jan., 1907..6275 10 „ ~ 3500 2775 29,884
July, 1907.. 7955 10 „ ~3500 4455 34,339
Jam, 1908..8826 10 ~ ~ 3500 5326 39,665
July, 1908..8054 10 ~ ~3500 4,000 554 40,219
Jan., 1909..7167 10 ~ ~3500 5,000 38,886
July, 1909..7056 10 ~ ~3500 4,500 37,942
Jam, 1910. .7415 10 ~ ~3500 3,000 915 38,857
July, 1910..7252 10 „ ~ 3500 3,000 752 39,609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 29,609
Jam, 1911. .7450 10 p.c. = 4000 3,000 450 30,059
Fortune is still on the side of Wright, Heaton and
Co. The chief factor in producing the wonderfully
fine figures is no doubt the great prosperity in the
pastoral industry. Once upon a time the co. was
only a carrier of other people’s goods; nowadays it
is in a large mercantile way too. It brings in
station produce, and it carries out stores, and it
makes a profit on the stores as well as on the cart-
age. It handles produce also —buys in the country
and sells mostly in the city. In Victoria it carries
on much the same business, trading as the McCulloch
Carrying Co.; the latter is a separate concern, but
Wright, Heaton and Co. hold all the shares. For
many years W., H. and Co.’s capital was £70,000,
in 28,000 shares fully paid to 505.; by the re-
cent issue of 4000 bonus shares the capital was raised
to £BO,OOO. The profit put to reserves during the
past few years has been very substantial —more sub-
stantial even than the reserves column in the table
would suggest, because large sums have been trans-
ferred to a contingency reserve and written off. This,
perhaps, shows the position better: —
Jam, ’Ol. July, TO. Jan.,’ll
Liabilities —General .. £34,802 £29,983 £36,025
ASSt Cash .. .. 9,964 10,696 12,693
Premises, plant, etc... 15,232 16,052 16,4/7
Stock .. .. .. 9,276 34,860 35,789
Book debts .. .. 53,819 58,433 61,126
McCulloch C 0... .. 16,748 25,000 25,000
Ten years ago the assets were £105,039; they now
total' £151,085. Though there is a growth there of
£46,046, against an increase of only £1223 in the
liabilities, it is possible that even then the whole
improvement is Hot shown. For; remarked
r.nw thp rontinffencv account has been written 041
—probabi V C °in reduction bf the . book *»k
debts, premises, plant or other assets. - oubt
there have been bad debts, just as there has oeen
depreciation of plant; but some at least; _of this
has certainly been provided for Otherwise. It looks
much taore y iikely Wt part, anyhow, of toe con
fund is an internal reserve, which is being
buift up against the change in the seasons, when
there are bound, to be losses on pas oral accounts
In former years the management felt itself in a
posiiio™ to transfer back some of the contingency
fund to profit and loss; in other.words, the contin-
gencies which had been provided for didn t arise.
Possiblv the same thing could be done now, tnougn
it would be much better to let it stay where it lS
until the next drought passes by. It is beyond ques-
tion that there will be droughts; what still remains
to be shown is whether the losses will be as great
as thev formerly were. Probably they won t be,
artificial fertilising may do a good deal for the
wheat farmer, while better water-conservation and
more facilities for shifting stock should save the
stock-raiser to some extent.
* * *
Wunderlich, Ltd., of Sydney and Melbourne,
manufacturers of ceiling and roofing materials, etc. (the
co, began with a disclosed deficit of £1737, representing
preliminary expenses)
Dividends.
Towards Norm-
Net Pref. R e - nal Re-
Profits. 7p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Aug.,’oB.. £7,923 £962 7* p.c. = £4,387 £2573 £835
Feb.,’o9.. 10,529 962 8 „ ~ 4.650 4887 5,722
Premiums on new shares .. 13/6 7,098
Aug., ’09.. 9,971 962 8 p.c. = 4,901 4108 11,206
Premiums oti new shares ... 1270 12,476
Feb ’lO i 1,262 962 8J p.b. = 5,210 5090 17,566
Feb.’ ’ll.. 22,916 2800 9 „ ~11,033 9083 26,649
The reserved, it wiil be noted, are described as
nominal, this qualification being called for because
among the assets there are Various paper items,
chiefly goodwill. Irt the earlier accounts the precise
amount of this “paper” waS not discloSed ; but Since
the stock was listed oil the Exchanges and largely
dealt in, the managemerit haS gofle further lrito de-
tail. Apparently, the poSitidri with regard to this
matter is as follows:—-
Wunderlich's goodwill .. .. •• £38;500
Edoke and Uo.’s goodwill .. .. •• 20,000
Subsequent purchases 7,202
Potai goodwill .. .. £65,702
There will thus have tb. be a further accumulatibri of
profits to the exteiit bi £39,053, before the whole
Capital of £ 169,591 will be represented by assets
that Can be handled by. any sort of measuring or
weighing appliance yet invented.
The present co. was formed to take over the well-
known Wunderlich business, with headquarters in
Sydney. That business was held by a proprietary
co with some pref. capital; and the holders of the
latter were allotted pref. capital also in the new co.
To those first 27,500 pref. shares 7 p.c. cumulative
—-a further 10,000 were subsequently added at a
premium; and during the past year the trustees of
the co.’s Employees’ Provident Fund, having some
money to invest, were allowed to take 2500 other
shares at par—another illustration pf the singularly
fine regard which the Wunderlich brothers have for
the people who work with them. (That is the way
they would put * it —“with them” , rather than for
them.”) There is thus now £40,000 in pref. capital;
ordinary capital, £122,591; total, £162,591. It is
none too much for the business, which has grown so
rapidly that a pretty large debt has been accumu-
lated :
1909 .. .. £20,627
1910 .. .. 42,092
1911 .. .. 66,193
The money is not represented by anything in par-
ticular —there have been increases all round: in book
debts, premises, plant (a very largely increased
item), stock and work in progress. No doubt this
co., like almost every other one engaged in or in con-
nection with building, has lately had an uncommonly
busv time, and the recent rate of profit isn t likely
to be maintained. On the other hand, under normal
conditions the amount represented by “stock in hand
and work in progress,” £76,174, could be reduced;
and then the liabilities would naturally shrink also.
This consideration excuses the rapid growth of lia-
bilities, which would otherwise be rather alarming.
There is mostly a little nigger on toe fence, cap-
able of making a hole in the melon crop ; the thing
always is to size up toe little nigger. (1) There are
the pref. shares. That nigger is entitled to a first
bite —a very solid 7 p.c. cumulative, too. But the
pref. capital isn’t big in proportion to the total
capital. £40,000 at 7 p.c.= £2BOO a year=a shade
under 1% p.c. on the total capital. That is, the
capital has to earn only 1% p.c. to pay the pref.
div.; all over that is available for toe ordinaries.
(2) The goodwill item is large, and it isn’t being
reduced. Certainly the name is good, and the busi-
ness connection is good. But fashions change; and
the time may easily come when the name of Wunder-
lich won’t cut more ice than the name of Smith.
Take up any old directory, and see how many of the
big names in it have been blotted out, and how few
of the big names of to-day are in toe records of yes-
terday. (3) The whole management, practically, is
in the hands of toe three mortal Wunderlich brothers.
When Rooke and Co.’s Melbourne business was ac-
quired, three other directors were appointed; but
they only constitute a local Board. The managing or
permanent directors are entitled, in addition to
salary, to 5 p.c. of toe net profits after toe pref. divs.
have been paid and 6 p.c. has been provided for
ordinaries, with an additional 5 p.c. on toe profit
in excess of £10,090, provided toe ordinary share-
holders get three times as much over and above 6
p.c. The bonuses amount for the past year to some-
thing like £1750. Of course it isn’t paid if it isn’t
earned; on toe other hand, when it is earned and the
directors get it, toe shareholders can’t get it. Still,
as it is a piece of profit-sharing, this paper certainly
isn’t going to say that toe bonus is money out of toe
shareholders’ pockets.
* * * *
The Darling Downs Building Society (Too-
woomba, Q-)„ _
To Re- Re-
Dec. Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1900’ . £476 5 per cent. = £330 £146 £203
1901 760 5 „ „ 463 297 • 500
1902 .. 1109 6 „ „ 821 288 788
1903 .. 1354 6 „ ~ 917 437 1225
1904 .. 1545 6 „ ~1149 396 1621
1905 .. 2284 6 ~ ~ 1782 502 21'>3
1906 . 3012 6 ~ „ 2401 611 2734
1907 .. 4023 6 ~ „ 3009 1014 3748
1908 .. 5859 7 ~ „ 4844 1015 4763
1909 6935 7 ~ ~ 6201 734 5497
1910 .. 8114 7 „ ~ 7353 761 6258
Besides the dividend to shareholders, a bonus, or re-
bate of interest, is allowed to borrowers; and the
latter amount (£596), as well as income tax, is m
the foregoing deducted from profits. The co. got to
work at toe right moment. The progress of Too-
woomba had been blocked by big estates; but a few
years ago the owners began to sell, and the then-
pending but inevitable land tax hurried on toe process.
The district is a fine one, and on its solid prosperity
Toowoomba has been growing steadily. This co.
has, however, grown much more rapidly than the
town. It appears to have been established, and has
since been controlled, by men who knew how to state
their case effectively, and no building society in Aus-
tralia makes a stronger appeal to its public. Certainly
it has yet to go through its troubles —for troubles
are bound to come. It is proud of toe fact that,
though it has advanced £239,032, of which £128,495
is outstanding, it “has no property. in possession,
nor has any loss so' far been sustained.” Losses,
however, are not to be expected on a rising market;
it is when values slump that the building society
has securities thrown on its hands. Still, unless the
slump is Very great, fi building society Should Wot
make losses., except on the last few tr
every fortnightly repayment increases the SocietWfi
margin of safety: With a business of this sizeand
growing rapidly; the ‘last few advances” may, never-
theless, represent a large sum. List vear for id-
stance, the new advances totalled £4§ 537> and in
view Of that, and Of Queensland’s violent ’uds ’add
downs, the co. Ought to have very Sntl t
serves. The lay-by m the past couple bf years has
been very moderate—too moderate: The 7o c div
was paid too soon ; all the greater reason why 'therh
should not be Unv increase for many years * The
shareholders’ security ig very gOoii: Practically the
co. has no liabilities ; ; that is td sav; it works on itl
own capital, and hasn’t to protect anvbodv else’!
Therefore, in view of the small risks, V b c is ta
abundant return.
* * i i
W. G. Hearnf. and Co., Ltd. (vie.'),, was
formed early in 1909 to take over a proprietary-
medicine business. The co. is in 50,000 £1
shares, of which 25,000 are 5 p.c. cumulative prefs.
and the other half are ordinaries. The promoters
guaranteed to ordinaries a minimum of 10 p.c. p.a.
for five years. The purchase price for goodwill was
£12,500, to be issued in shares, not at once, but
in equal parts, spread over five years—2soo shares a
year. No cash was put up, apparently, to guarantee
the 10 p.c. div. ; but the prospectus mentioned that
“as one evidence of the value of this guarantee, the
fixed deposits at the credit of the guarantor (W. G.
Hearne) in the various banks of issue named in this
prospectus amount to £23,000.” The promoter paid
all expenses of forming the co., and took no cash.
The net profit for the first year was £1201; the
paid capital was then £5625, including £2500
issued to the promoter.. The dividend absorbed
£394 (£225 oii brdirtaries and £i69 on prefs.).
For the past year a profit pf £115(1 ig Shown oil a
capital bf £9687 — ; a much podrer shewing, .torii-
parativel.V; than ip the first year.. Id all, 22,500 siiateS
have now been issued, Pf which 9950 are euihula-
tive prefs. and 12,520 are Ordinaries i none are paid
paSt 10s. The. capital wds apparently Hot WaHtfet]
for manufacturing; and thC whole bf the Capital
subscribed iS iri caSh. (AS a matter of fafct the CO.
doeSn’t do the manufacturing. ~ All it bought wds
“the right of Sale for Australia;” and itS object wds
td “derive all tlie profits between the manufacturing
price and the selling price.”) The poSitiori oii jail.
3l was: Liquid assets, £10,079 ; liabilities; £3430:
surplus, £6649. Of the liquid assets, £7Bd7 waS
in cash. The surplus, therefore; exceeds ,tjie amduht
bf capital paid in cash (.£4687), A 10 p.c. div.
bH ordinaries and 5 p.c. , bii prefS. is paid;, total,
£747. This leaves £1215 bf reserves. Nothing
haS, however; been writteii bff goodwill, Which re-
mains at £12,50(1. So far the profits hdre t>feeh
large. But the popularity bf theSe medicines is
generally ah erratic thing. Further, aS pointed but
above, the co. has no manufacturing rights; fdr its
supplies, it is dependent on Some bther party; Ott thC
other hand, there is the fact that the capital Sub-
scribed is intact; though it has td be remerhbefed
that, on liquidation, that capital would be divided
among the holders of the promoters’ 12,500 shares
as well as among the people who actually put up
the money.
* * * *
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Queensland):
Dividends.
- De-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. licit.
June, 1904.. £l5Ol 9 p.c. =£ll6 £706 £ll6
Dec., 1904. 1666 9 „ 2$ p.c. ~ 719 831
June, 1905.. 1237 9 „ „ „ 116 1237 116
Dec., 1905.. 1337 9 „ 2£ „ „ 717 504 -
June, 1906.. 1573 Nil 1573
Dec., 1906.. 1514 18 ~ 2£ ~ „ 833 6SI
June, 1907.. 1855 9 „ „ „ 678 1177
Dec., 1907.. 1917 9,,2} „ „ 678 1239
June, 1908.. 1880 9,, ~ „ 678 1202
Dec., 1908.. 2047 9 ~ 2£ ~ ~ 678 1369
June, 1909.. 2229 9 ~ 3J „ ~ 902 1327
Re-
serves.
Dec., 1909.. 2504 9,, 3£ „ „ 902 1202 400
June, 1910.. 2332 9 ~ 3* „ „ 902 1430 400
Dec., 1910.. 2931 9 ~ 5 ~ ~1302 2029 -r
At the end of 1903 the auditors reported: “From the
official documents examined by us, we are of opinion
that the gas plant, meters, buildings, fittings on loan
and rental, the electric light macninery, mains and
services, fittings, etc., are not of the value set fortli
in the balance-sheet.” The co. had, in other words,
been paying away in dividends money which had not
been earned; it had been distributing capital as
well as profits. Two courses were, then open—to
write off the improperly-distributed capital, or to
restore it out of future profits. The latter course
was decided upon. Hence the large writings-off of
the last few years. The profit thus written-off has
been used mainly to pay off debt instead of restoring
the depreciated plant; this, however, is quite regular.
The essential thing was to retain the profit and not
divide it among shareholders. The position has been
improved as follows: —
Dec., 1903. Dec., 1910.
Liabilities .. .. £25,872 £13,991
Liquid assets .. .. 4,391 5,340
Deficit .. £21,481 £8,651
The co. has thus in seven years paid its dividends,
made such repairs and paid for such extensions as
have been effected, and put itself £12,830 to the
good, mainly by the reduction of debentures. These
debentures have been reduced from £25,000 to
£12,500. There is no way of telling whether plant
has yet been written down to its present value.
Even if that has been done there are no reserves;
and in their absence, the div. on the ordinary shares
should certainly not be increased beyond the present
5 p.c. In fact, it is very- doubtful whether, in view
of past lessons, it should have been put up to 5 p.c.
The capital is £47,537, of which £2750 is in 9
p.c. pref. shares.
The Bank of New Zealand is making its
third change of residence in Melbourne. From Queen-
street it moves into its own freehold premises in
Oollins-street, next the Union Bank.
“Khasuble” : The Clergy Provident funds
of the Victorian Anglican, Presbyterian and Metho-
dist churches are in more or less financial difficulty.
Archbishop Clarke has just- been declaring that the
Anglican Provident Fund was short last year. The
Presbyterian Moderator has declared that their fund
could only pay 90 p.c. The Methodist fund has had
losses, apparently through sanguine, pious, but rather
unfortunate tradesmen borrowing money. It is time
to urge that the regular, secular insurance institu-
tions ought to be trusted by the churches. Clergy-
men have a mischievous idea that they are men of
business, able to do better than the actuary. Be-
sides, these eleemosynary funds are bitter for the poor
supernumeraries, with a lot of hungry pietists watch-
ing them, and wanting to know why they don’t die.
I have heard cruel remarks in the Presbyterian As-
sembly, hinting that the clergy’s widows live too
long!” I have heard a treasurer say: “We have been
quite out of our calculations.” If these people paid
into the A.M.P., or something else of the kind, the
poor creatures could live as long as they liked.
* * * *
The Hetton is one of the old New-
castle cos. which, seeing the end of the workable
coal in sight, have gone out to the Maitland field,
and secured new mines at Cessnock and thereabouts.
A good deal of expensive railway and other con-
struction had to be faced by this co., so that
at the end of 1910 the Cessnock development account
stood at £30,182; this is apart from the cost of
the leases, etc. (£8318). Over £20,000 has been
spent in the past two years; and there is stiu a
pretty large outlay ahead for surface equipment, m
the mine itself the necessary tunnels have been
driven, and the air-shaft sunk and bricked. for-
tunately the co. had a surplus of liquid
assets of over £30,000 when it started on
the new mine; so it hasn’t had to m*


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Absolute Security, Efficient
sind Economical Management.
Having' bandied almost every
class of Assets, it possesses a
much wider experience tban
is possible for an individual.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Write or Call for Booklet. Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVI Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High treet, Auckland. [2
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and 0. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Steam Usees are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. H. Lamond & Co., 328 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465): “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles., has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1475) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to, separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* [1
* * * *
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
* * * .*
The original “Balata” Belting, patented by R.
and J. Dick, Glasgow, mantains its high standard of
excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imi-
tations by the maker’s name and brand on every
few feet. Sole importers, James Hardie and Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [4
* * * *
Extract from the Financial News, London
(29/7/1910) : “The bonus is one of the best yet ‘de-
clared, and, in the opinion of the actuary, ‘the prbs-
pects of distributing satisfactory bonuses in the
future are better now than they ever were before.’
The Colonial Mutual has certainly earned its reputa-,
tion for financial strength and fair treatment of
policy-holders.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE means minimum expense —not only
cheaper than metal pipe to buy, but cheaper to
handle and cheaper to lay down. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send
catalogue on application.*
* * * *
Mine Managers and' Engineers. —Send vour orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Rea veil Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* ♦ * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
*** . *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc-
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
crease its capital < ]] owe ver, been turned
on deposit two years ago had, last,
into an overdraft of about £3OOO on uem
Nevertheless the directors thought half-
fied a div. at the rate o 4 p.c. P^a.
sf'.H x r tto»r a”, s? s™ £
tune. ‘ Still
at the end of 1908, another of the same in July*
1909, and, as mentioned above, 4 P-C; re “" Mainly
there wasn’t anything in the interval was maimy
the result of the big strike. # *
Broken Hill Junction might have been on
a profit-making basis to-day if the hadn t had a
bee in its bonnet when it discussed J^te
first report on the property. Now lt ai f® e ™ s „ t to ®
to do anything except amalgamate, and that course
is undoubtedly the best for the shareholders As it
stands the old mine isn’t much use to its own share-
holders or anyone else. The Junction North doesn
seem anxious to acquire the right to the encum-
brance, but the directors are willing to take it into
the Junction North fold if the Junction people climb
down from their gingerbread pedestal. It is beyond
the power of any manager to get 2000 tons of pay-
able ore per week out of the mine under existing
conditions, and even if that were possible, the present
mill could not treat it at a profit. It will take
almost as much money as Hebbard suggested m his
first report ( £30,000) to put the mine in working
order, and the directors haven’t a ghost of a chance
of scraping that amount together. Amalgamation is,
therefore, the only refuge. If the Junction North
will hand over 20,000 shares and pay off a portion of
the Junction co.’s liabilities, the shareholders on both
sides should be satisfied.
B.H. Block 10 has got its lode at the
1715 ft. level —the deepest ore yet proved on the
Broken Hill line. But just at the spot where the
crosscut struck it, the sight wasn’t a very satisfy-
ing one for the management. The opening up of
the old levels in the Kelly section —abandoned for
years on account of the underground movements —
promises better results, and this work is being pushed
ahead. The mill is badly in want of some better ore
than it has been getting for months past, and the
requisite “sweetening” is looked for from Kelly’s.
Some first-class stuff was left at the 400 ft. and 500 ft.
levels of the Kelly section when the workings were
abandoned several years ago, and a fair amount of it
should be recoverable now. Kelly’s shaft is being
repaired to allow of work being carried on through
it.
Block 10 has been carrying on exploratory work
at the old Rising Sun, on the White Leads flat, south
of Broken Hill, and has got down to the 600 ft. level.
Ore of good quality, but in very limited quantity,
was found there, and what could be scraped together
was sent to the mill. Diamond-drilling has not
shown the outlook to be encouraging. The Rising
Sun is only a little distance further along than the
South Extended, and the fact that nothing but small,
irregular bodies of ore, with patches of good sul-
phides, has been met with in the Sun, should cause
buyers of South Extended shares at 4s. 9d. to do
some hard thinking.
, * * * *
Bourke’s Hill Tin Sluicing Co. was formed
in Melbourne early in 1906 to work some ground
near Emmaville (N.S.W.). The co. got on the right
side of things in 1909, and started to pay divs. in
strict moderation, and by August of last year £5625
had been paid on a capital of £16,875. In the
past six months the co. has been a teetotaler; the
profit only ran to £348, and £263 of that was
written off for depreciation. The ground was too
hard, and the tin was too scarce, and the water-
supply failed—-there are plenty of excuses. The co.
is now picking up odd scraps of ground in the
struggle to give its shareholders a bit better run for
their money.
* * * *
The strong Melbourne crowd which has
stuck tight to Y Waterholes (N.S.W.) has been
cheered with a first div. of a shilling. The co. put
Moline in charge, and gave him good financial back-
ing, and he beat down obstacle after obstacle. Then,
with a straight run, profit has come fast, and five
weeks’ work showed £3400 to the good.
* * * *
Grafton'copper mine, Cangai (N.S.W.),
is putting a tram line three miles into the bush;
and it is a pretty expensive job. Last year the co.
paid £7749 for firewood used in the treatment of
9231 tons of ore, and the line ought to drag the bill
down by over one-third. Ore reserves are not very
large, probably not more than three years’ supply, if
the furnaces are run to their full capacity. But the
ore is of high grade, the recent average being 11
p.c. as trucked into the hopper. For a run of four
weeks 637 tons ore and 330 tons slag produced 179
tons matte, containing 63 tons copper. Some of the
stopes show a width of 4ft. of black ore and. yellow
sulphides. During 1910 the co. paid £5OOO in divi-
dends, from a production valued at £38,627, which
is a very moderate result considering that the ore is
high grade—from 8 to 10 p.c. —and easy to^treat.
The Sydney syndicate which was formed
to test blocks north of the prospectors’ claim at
Meglo (N.S.W.), has done a lot of costeening along
the supposed lode outcrop, and, failing the discovery
of any appreciable ore-values, has decided not to
exercise its option.
* * * *
Budgery (N.S.W.) is putting up a game
struggle with the copper market. A recent con-
signment of 301 tons, averaging over 6 p.c., re-
turned only £344. Thus, under existing conditions,
the co. doesn’t get much more than £1 per ton
for ore averaging 6 p.c., which is barely enough to
pay for mining. It doesn’t receive more than one-
third of the gross metal value. The copper mine
that has to send its ore any distance to a custom
smelter has a hard row unless the stuff is very
rich. Shipments from Budgery have been now sus-
pended, and prospecting and development work is
to be continued from the 218 ft. level down to 400 ft.
vertical. The main stopes show ore worth about 6
p.c., with promising improvements in one or two
places.
* * * *
D. P. Mitchell, superintendent of works at
Great " Fitzroy (Q.), leaves in search of health;
and J. W. Moule, late metallurgist at Chillagoe,
and for a long time on the staff of the Sulphide
Corporation at Cockle Creek, takes his place.
. Mt. Morgan shells out its usual quarterly
£50,000; but it sets one thinking to find that the
mine produces more than four times that amount
every quarter. It is this big production of from
£7O 000 to £BO,OOO per month from 25,000 to
30 000 tons of ore that marks Mt. Morgan as an ex-
ceptional mine. All the same, there is no reason why
the co. should waste its substance. There are so
many blanks in mining that, when the rare rich mine
ought to pay well, it oughtn’t to be content to only
pay fairly well. The rulers of Mt. Morgan have got
into that frame of mind. “We are doing well
enough,” they say. The whole business wants shak-
in S up '* .
When State Premier Denham got to Char-
ters Towers the other day, the dulness made him
sad. Whereupon his thoughts naturally flew to
butter and spuds, and, without being asked, he pro-
mised to have the district overhauled, with a view
to agriculture. Local bodies are asked to co-operate.
Denham points to Gympie and Ballarat, which
turned to butter when their gold-mining sickened.
* * * *
St. Mungo, Cloncurry, has only 10,000
shares, which helps to explain three sixpenny divi-
dends in quick succession; for sixpence all round
only means £250. Shipments of 26 p.c. copper
continue to be made, and it is reckoned that the
quantity at the mine and on its way to the pot
should return 3s. per share ( £1500). The mine is
very patchy, and the rich veins often only a few
inches thick; so a big capitalisation for the property
would be absurd. It is a gamble over which one
might easily get his fingers burned.
* * * *
Officially stated that the last consignment
of blister copper from Mount Elliott, Cloncurry,
was laid down in Townsville at £26 per ton. Just
as well, however, to remember that the value ex-
tracted from 16,585 tons in four months was
£124,844, which means an average of £7 10s. 6d.
per ton of ore; and when that average drops, up will
rush the cost per ton of metal.
* * * *
Golden Horn, a Melbourne-owned mine at
Mount Leyshon—reckons that its costs will be nearer
ldwt. than the 2dwt. mentioned last week. If that
figure can be realised, the co. will be doing good
work. For the first fortnight in March the co.
treated 1280 short tons for a recovery of a shade
under 7s. per ton, and 1150 tons in the second fort-
night for 7s. 7d. per ton; and it estimated a profit
of about £4OO for the month —say, 3s. 3d. per short
ton. If the profit works out according to the esti-
mate, the other estimate that ldwt. will cover costs
is pretty near the mark.
* * * •
Times mining correspondent Gerard Wil-
liams knocks the stuffing out of the yarn that Bull-
finch hadn’t any gold to speak of until 40ft. had been
sunk below the surface, and that the barren lodes
in the surrounding delusions are “caps of rich de-
posits that exist below.” Williams says that the
cap of the main ore body was discovered immediately
under the loam, and the ore gave pannings which
looked like averaging lOdwt. to 20dwt. When the
samples were assayed, however, they were found to
be worth as many ounces. Describing a second visit
to the Proprietary mine, Williams says that the foot-
wall of the lode and the main slide must intersect
at a short distance below the 100 ft. level, and this
point may prove to be the downward limit of the
much-advertised rich ore. While even a doubt as to
the permanency and continuity of the bonanza exists,
Williams considers that there should be no delay in
sinking existing shafts, and thus demonstrating the
nature of the unoxidised ore in depth.
It now transpires that the circular issued
to Bullfinch shareholders in London on February 18,
estimated that current ore treatment would give
£lO,OOO to £12,000 net revenue, and not profit, as
alleged at this end. Other things mentioned are that
the treatment of ore on the spot is not to be started
until the character and extent of the sulphides is
determined, and that, as immediate and prospective
financial requirements have been fully provided for,
present profits will be available for dividends.
The Times correspondent’s view of the
Chaffinch: “So far the many costeens on the lease
have given no sign of anything even remotely ap-
proaching to payable gold. Nor, indeed, did I see
anything which had been exposed that appeared even
likely to carry gold. ... I have examined speci-
mens which came from the trench, and the gold is
very similar to the gold in similar hornblende
schists in the North-East Coolgardie goldfield. _ If
such a pocket of rich ore should occur in the midst
of rocks which are very free from hornblende (and
gold), it is a very strange coincidence. If another
such pocket be found in the same rock I shall begin
to believe that the age of miracles is not dead.”
Roe, P.M., not only refused to send Green-
way, Dyason and Bonwick on for trial over the
Chaffinch business, but scarified some of the parties
who were trying to gaol them. “It was not his duty
to criticise the action of certain people in this
gamble,” nevertheless it was “a blot on the mining
history of the State.” Certainly . Dyason and Bon-
wick were bears. That is to they sold in the
expectation of a fall. They believed that the thing
was a swindle, and that it would soon be exposed,
and they backed their belief. There is no offence in
that. The offence is to circulate false reports to
procure a fall. And as there was no evidence that
they did anything of the kind, the Court acquitted
them. They should never have been charged.
Greenfinch (W.A.) seems to have got hold
of something attractive at Boodallin. Costeening
has exposed 18ft. of 3oz. ore, and a good judge in-
forms The Bulletin that the property is the best
surface show he has seen in the West for a long
time. Unfortunately, these good surface things
mostly die young, but maybe the Greenfinch has
fluked one that won’t. #
Kalgoorlie is whooping loudly over the
Golden Horseshoe development at 2800 ft. The lode
over which all the fuss is being made has now been
stabbed four times within a length of a little over
600 ft. First of all it was cut by three bores, drilled,
fan-shaped, from the Boulder main shaft in the
direction of the Horseshoe and Ivanhoe boundaries.
The Horseshoe Co. then put in a fourth hole further
south from the Boulder Co.’s Edwards shaft, and at
this point the ore body is some 20 odd feet inside
Horseshoe ground, and worth 13dwt. for a width of
27ft.
Cumberland (W.A.) is officially stated to
have a few months’ payable ore still in sight, after
which the blinds will probably be pulled down and
the shutters put up. Several new shows are being
sampled, one of which the Board thinks will “turn
out well.” The co. has £7OOO in hand, so if
the worst does happen in the case of the old pro-
perty, the Board need not go short of a feed for
some time.
* * * *
Central and West Boulder (W.A.) has
just had a windfall ip the shape of £lOOO royalty
from a tribute party. This party has lately put
through a few hundred tons of stuff for about £3500
wortli <>f gold, and as some of the old hands in the
party si -m to know the mine better than the co., the
chances are that they will dig out a lot more wealth
before the tribute expires.
* * * *
Ingliston Consols (W.A.) has just strength-
ened the faith of those who believe in the perman-.
ency of Meekatharra by the discovery of first-rate
values at three different points below 560 ft.
* * * •
Cassilis (Vic.) has swapped horses again.
The world wonders who gave the kick. If divi-
dends came as fast as managers have been changed
of late, shareholders wouldn’t pull their mouths
down so. Now they merely sigh, and murmur,
“Another man—more plant!” Drummond’s suc-
cessor is A. S. Lilleburne, who has been trying to
infuse vitality into the shrivelled South German
carcase at Maldon. There he couldn’t get a new
plant. At Cassilis the Board is tuned up to such
demands. His lead-off is for a tube-mill, as he
wants fine grinding to get at the slimes. Like every
other man who has happened at Cassilis, he pins
his faith to the slimes, and, like all before him,
he thinks he can raise a halo by cheapening costs.
All the same, it is cheerful to hear him telling
sluggish shareholders that, as there isn’t 12 months’
ore proved, development is the word. This has been the
fault all through. Shareholders wanted divs., when
there was only a narrow reef, and short lenses of
pay ore to treat; while managers have had a tough
problem to keep off calls. Now, with power avail-
able, stone is short in supply, and the grade not so
promising as of old. What the Board has to do is
to reverse old way3—to prove stone, and then take
time to settle up the matter of treatment. Lille-
burne isn’t a novice in metallurgical dodges, and he
did good Westralian work; and as he has had a
poor claim to handle at Maldon, and therefore prob-
ably learned hard economy, he may do the needed
trick at Cassilis.
* * * #
“Al” Dickenson, who hit a nice win back-
ing gee-gees, is wondering if he will do ditto with
his Al at Gaffney’s. Only a perky and persevering
man could have taken up that mountain derelict
after it had been turned down by fatman Miller.
“Dicky,” however, got the Al South slung in as a
make-weight. Preliminary work disclosed a floor
of quartz running in the dyke. Then came a set-
back in shares, on a hint from the men of the moun-
tains that the floor wasn’t anything to talk about.
But it was better than nothing, and “Dicky” has
been wearing his hat at a jauntier angle than ever.
A bulk crushing is to tell the full tale. Will the
sequel be the one so often related in the Woods
Point district —that gold makes in angles and
patches, and that, as the dykes get hard at depth,
the quartz veins become as scarce as winners on a
Cup day?
* * * *
Peter Mcßride is being pelted over the
ukase ordering the Bright dredges to resoil all land
with a surface covering of 2ft. of alluvium. Peter
in this matter is as high and as huffy as a girl in
harem skirts. Everyone except the Sludge Board
knows the impossibility of putting back dredged
land in the same condition as before buckets cut
into it. What is so foolish is that, if miners want
Bright ground, they can huddle and heap it into
mounds worse than Tewksbury’s machines could do
it, and Peter can’t gainsay them, nor can the Sludge
Board whimper. Peter won’t go to Bright to decide
for himself, and Tewksbury won’t go to Peter, so the
snarling is likely to last.
* * * *
Lord Nelson. St. Arnaud, is on the divi-
dend list after a five years’ wait. Stone from which
profit comes is from the once-despised Lord Nelson
North lease, into which the lode dipped, to the con-
fusion of all old-timers. Lord Nelson could have got
the ground for a few pence, but turned up a nose of
disdain. Then the Baillieus walked in, and about
made their own terms. Lord Nelson’s adversity came
with a fault at about 1400 ft., which brought the
average down to about sMwt. • As the gold is low-
grade, and .there was a slab of debt to meet over the
battery, it seemed to be a toss-up if the claim would
ever build up its £254,000 divvy- record any higher.
Though the two shoots of stone have functioned at
about the present depth, there has not come an ap-
preciable widening of the lode to the old aggregate
dimensions; but, to compensate, the shoot of gold is
longer. This is one good point 6f the present posi-
tion. Another is an improvement in the grade at
the bottom level; and a third is the better recovery
obtained. On the other hand, the eo. has now
80,000 shares to spread profits over, and costs won’t
decrease as depth is attained. Finally, shoots of gold
at below 2000 ft. are not often dependable. Still,
with the list of Victorian dividend mines shrinking
so much, the best is hoped for.
* * * *
Scamander Copper (Tas.) is collecting
pennies, to find if there is ore in a long-shepherded
lease near St. Helens. A J. Bull crowd had the first
try, but let go a tired hold after doing a bit of
prospecting tnat would have shamed a lazy grave-
digger. Next, the ’Cootas took a hand, but copper-
mining spells cash, and, as Tassy is hard up, Tom
Husband’s Melbourne crowd, who were sick of
Balfour, married St. Helens to the Scamander.
Work done by previous owners has proved carbon-
ates, a little glance, and more chalcopyrite; and
coin is now wanted to sink below the tunnel, to
prove what lives at depth. This is all-right mining.
If Husband keeps his team in hand, he should in-
sist on going down a fair depth, for you can’t trust
the East Coast’s surface or shallow depths.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell tops up its half-year with 661
tons blister, containing. 653 tons copper, 43,4750 z.
silver and 870 oz. gold. The mine has already sent
away 3932 tons to the refining works, and it looks
as if the half-year to March 31 would close with a
normal production of slightly over 4000 tons of
blister, which, by the way, is about 98 p.c. pure
copper. The big co. has been handling ore of slightly
improved grade recently; and on its big tonnage a
rise or fall of 14 p.c. means in the half-year a dif-
ference of 400 or 500 tons of copper, worth over
£20,000. The average extraction of silver and gold
varies within narrow limits, and seldom exceeds 7s.
per ton of orei Last month’s gold and silver were,
approximately, worth £BOOO, while the copper at
£5O per ton gave £32,650. The mixture of crude
ore smelted at i Mt. Lyell isn’t half as valuable as
that treated at Morgan; but costs have been got
down very fine. With drooping metal markets,
profits are likely to show a slight reduction for the
past term. #
The Tasmanian Government has made a
liberal advance to the Anchor Co. Favored in this
way, it has completed its aerial tram from The Blue
Tier deposits to the mill, a distance of 1% miles.
The Anchor has frequently quoted costs below 3s.
per ton; but the stuff is low-grade, and the co. is
big, and very large quantities of dirt are necessary
to give shareholders the chance of a meal. Hence
the tram line.
* * * *
Taranaki Petroleum Go. (M.L.) has been
boring deeper in its No. 3 well, and at 3680 ft.
has had a great “blow out of gas, oil, water and
silt. It was the biggest explosion m date, and
saturated buildings and fixings so that work was
stopped. When the flow was got under control, 70
barrels of oil were saved in three days. No. 2 bore has
been giving 10 barrels a day for 15 months past. In
contrast with these successes, another oil co. in the
district is in the hands of the bailiff.
* * * *
Waiki (M.L.), whose shares are now
pretty steady at about £3 55., has struck another
new make of quartz in a prospecting drive north of
the Martha; but the first 13ft. passed through gave
no values. It is thought to be a branch of the
Martha, though it has not the same dip.
People who are in the habit , of looking
only at assay values of ore, without considering what
it may cost to get the metals out, ought to consider
the Hercules (Tas.). From that mine 3306 tons of
40 p.c. zinc ore were lately shipped to foreign
markets, the actual metal contents being; Gold,
5450 z.: silver, 32,5100 z.; zinc, 1472 tons. There
was thus £30,000 worth of zinc without the precious
metals; yet the Hercules didn’t get one-tenth of this
amount. In fact, it only got £2563. A ton of
Hercules crude zinc ore contains twice as much zinc
as the Broken Hill tailings, and the cost of mining
and transport to Williamsford is only 12s. Bd. per
ton; but it is the vast tonnage that allows Broken
Hill zinc cos. to get fat while those of Tasmania
starve.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
liouse and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*


Rexona,
The Rapid Healer, is an ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-
fashioned ointments, which are very slow in their
action, Rexona speedily relieves after a very few
applications. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d.
and 3s.*
Noticeable among the many features of
the Scientific Australian are views of the .first
aeroplane flight over Government House, Melbourne,
the “Olympic” .before launching, a new rail ;planing
machine, fireless cooking, and also diagrams showing
progress in flight and how aviation accidents are
caused. The letter-press is bright, interesting
articles appearing on tools for trains, adding type-
writers, slack coal boilers, paper from sugar cane,
“what the world is doing,” and a page j entitled
“Coming.” 2s. 6d. per annum, from iPhillips
Ormonde, 266 Flinders-street (Elevator), Melbourne.*
LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS 3c WHITTY, Mel bourne and Sydney. t i
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
ABORIGINA-
ALITIES
“Gip” on peripatetic explosives: —
On this part of Monaro (N.S.W.) we don’t sav
politely, like “Yarrum,” that a horse or beast died
of “internal combustion.” We just say it busted
itself. Like this: —
“Two er Jim Mannix’s bullicks in the crick.”
“U-r-r-r-h?”
Long pause.
“Bogged ?”
“No-00. Busted theirselves.”
The art of busting oneself has always had a vulgar
fascination for me. An old Monaro resident was
telling me the other day of a terrible busting year.
(This, too, by the way, has been rather a remark-
able year for lucerne and busting.) During that
memorable year beasts were busting everywhere;
and the narrator assured me that one evenin’, after
puttin’ the cows up, he just chucked ’em a harmful
o’ dry lucern from the barn — dry lucerri, mind —
and come into supper, an went straight up agen, an’
two of ’em was busted. He said if he could ha’
seen ’em in time he could ha’ saved ’em, because
all as yeh had to do was stick a pocket knife in
their side and get away quick before you was
blown. “Yarrum’s” par. makes me blush for my
coarseness. As he is so inexperienced he may not
mind the suggestion of an equally inexperienced, but
deeply-interested person. The game of “knives,”
practised assiduously, should prove useful. Then,
when next a poor horse comes to expire like a dog
on his lawn —Who left the gate open? Forgive me.
I enquire from habit —a penknife, deftly thrown
from the balcony, might save the life of the suffer-
ing animal. And “Yarrum” would have ample
time to retire behind the French lights before,
boomerang-fashion, his knife returned to him.
RUBBING IT IN.
THE MAN WITH THE B WAG: "Say. Mister, would
you mind playin’ ‘ Home, Sweet Home,’ for
a cove?”
“Jimmie Pannikin”: I have changed my
mind about ignoring “A. William-Cann” ; he s too
interesting, too full of color and conceit, of fact
and fancy and front, of a shallow, superficial salt-
bush-and-sand knowledge, to be regarded as a negli-
gible quantity. His utter disregard of truth so
impinges nis personality upon one’s consciousness,
that it’s easier and better to accept him as a neces-
sary Outback Evil. Neither “Camp Fire’s” scheme
for baffling bugs nor “Gil Gunnia’s” drastic me-
thod of Applying potassium of cyanide would cause
the slightest perturbation of “A. W.-C.’s” equanim-
ity, nor disturb his colossal disregard of the truth.
Note the following items: (1) I have never diva-
gated with “A. W.-O.” Ido not know him. I have
never seen him. “Turramurra Tommy” wrote me
some weeks ago. This is an extract from his letter:
“We had great excitement here lately. A long, at-
tenuated, ungainly, awkward, suburban swagman was
caught robbing the boss’s best bulb beds. He is
evidently one of the street flower-sellers, whose won-
derful wares make patches of glorious color in Mar-
tin-place. The boss,and I booted him off the prem-
ises with great vigor and accuracy. When we
lifted him over the high hedge, he blubbered like' a
baby, and said we would be sorry for our roughness—
that he was not a pilferer of flowers, that he was a
passionate lover of Nature, that he had merely been
getting a few rare specimens to send up to his pal
‘Pannikin’ at the time an inmate of The Walker
Hospital!” Evidently.the fellow is another of the
band who make their alleged acquaintance with me
an excuse for any interference with property or
propriety. Mind, I don’t say the hoisted bloque was
"A. W.-C.” I only note that they both hang on to
“Pannikin,” instead "of going on their own.
NOT A WEIGHT CARRIER.
"Why don’t yer put a bit o’ flesh on yer 'are, Mick?”
“ Sure, an phwat good would that do the poor baste' Hasn't he got
jist as much as he can carry already?”
“Hecagus” : Agree with “Stan” (B. 16/2/11)
re longevity and egg-laying powers of tne green-
back turtle. Caught one once making an incu-
bator on Bamborough Island (Northumberland
Group). Asa curio-wolf who was with our party
wanted the shell, we dragged the armor-plated lady
aboard the cutter, and took her to camp six miles
away. After the operation was over, the body, minus
the shell, was thrown off the jetty. Fourteen days
later, whilst searching Bamborough Island for a
missing man, we came across the self-same greenie
laying away for all she was worth. On seeing us,
she made a hurried wobble towards the sea, and ex-
pired. It was too much for her.
* * * *
“Pat O’Maori” : I was delighted with the
gentle tale of “Yalgun” (B. 2/3/’ll) about the 9ft.
carpet snake caught,
in the act of swal-
lowing 6in. of himself
with an eagle-hawk
hanging on. The story
has set me thinking,
and the thoughts I
have had tease me “as
doth eternity.” How
much of himself could
a snake swallow if he
tried ? Fom all ac-
counts, a carpet snake
can swallow things
• much bigger than him-
self ; and, therefore,
there seems no good
reason why he should
not swallow the whole
of himself, except the
part that does the
swallow. If this rea-
soning is sound, will
some Aboliar—“ Yal-
gun” for preference—
tell us what shape a
carpet snake would be
when he has swallowed
the whole of himself
except the part that
can’t be swallowed be-
cause it is too busy ?
I am really anxious to
know about this, be-
cause it seems to have
an intimate connection
with J. Ward’s Maori-
land borrowing policy
and his proposal to borrow enough money to pay
off all the debt in 80 years. If I knew exactly how
much of himself a snake could eat and what shape
the rest of him would be by the time the process
was finished, I should be able to calculate how much
of a loan that loan could pay off, and what form the
Maoriland budget would take after it had done the
trick.
“Pat O’Maori”: In this part of Sydney
Suburbia they drive pigs by night. If you have a
good nose you can hear them half an hour before
they arrive ; after that, if your hearing is acute,
you can smell their voices through the gloom. They
form a noisy procession. At every step each indi-
vidual pig enters his emphatic protest against the
fate which keeps him so long out of bed, and every
now and again one or another will indignantly de-
clare that he won’t go a step further. A cart fol-
lows the swine battalion, and when a grunter de-
clines to continue the march there is a wild uproar,
in which every dog in the street joins. New arri-
vals in the district fancy on these occasions that the
whole population is being murdered by wild Indians
escaped from the picture shows, but in reality it is
only a protesting porker being lifted into the cart.
Local tradition asserts that a petition was once
lodged with the authorities against the slaughter of
slumber involved in these pig parades, but the ap-
peal nearly led to a civil war. A monster. manifesto
was issued by the suburban gardeners declaring that,
if the fertilisation caused by the wreath of swine
were taken away, the economic loss to their ro?e
bushes would destroy half the charm of the locality.
After that the protesting party collapsed ; and it is
now a favorite topic of dispute whether the pigs or
the pianos of Jacaranda Avenue are the more bracing
to the nerves.
“lvobbi”: That nervous swaggie (B.
2/3/’ll) seems to have no faith in vinegar or
Condy’s as a snakebite cure. He ought to get
ready to peg out; for Australian snakes kill more
people by fright than by bite. Ligature-tying is
the most important thing, though death has its own
way at times through the placing of the lig. Where
there are two bones, as on the lower arm or lower
leg. The lig. won’t stop the circulation there.
Get it on the upper arm or leg. The late Dr.
Krefft, the best snake authority we have had, held
that, in the absence of an antidote, it helps, after
lacerating the wound, to bathe it with water or
wine. As to cutting the wound, stick a pin through
the skin where the punctures are; then twist a
string around underneath, thus lifting the skin.
After that, slash across with a sharp knife. If at
your wit’s ends, apply salt. It will hurt; but it is
better to dance than to die.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: A few notes from
the Cow, Corn and Creek Country, about the Mighty
and Magnificent Manning. It is a very hard thing to
.find one Australian book in any of the school-libraries
so far inspected. Surely it is quite time that Aus-
lian teachers in Australian schools should teach Aus-
tralian children something of Australian literature
In one big school, where the library contains over
200 books (all un-Australian),'l said: “Give the
names of any Australian writers whom you have
ever heard of,” The first three names mentioned
were Rudvard Kipling, Mrs. Henry Woofi, and Marie
Corelli. When I recovered from my severe fainting
fit, one girl, anxious to placate “Pannikin,” said: “I
know two, sir—Sir Walter Scott and Charles Gar-
vice.” I re-fainted. In the March issue of The
Public Instruction Gazette (called “The Pig” for
short), a senior-inspector remarks 'truly: “Only a
few. teachers remember that there is. .Australian
poetry worthy of attention.” The formation of a
strong, solid society for the compulsory emigration
of all ashamed, apologetic and apathetic• Australians
is. hereby recommended. . . . The .Cow Country is
easy on bird-life, but cruelly hard on child-life; the
sheep-country is the reverse. In all mv divagations
(f hope this word won’t annoy “ANifC’N) I have
never seen so many Willie Wagtails- 'find butcher-,
bird,? ,as there, are along the roads of; the Taree dis-
trict. I counted 37 sleek, dainty, smart, friendly,
cheeky Willie Wagtails alongside the road, during a
10-mile drive. . .., It often rains between the
showers: up here. ...
“Cellu Loid”: When Chief Protector
Howard starts out to back the Bananaland or any other
binghi against his Pacific Island brudder, he is. as
the Ruhiana (Solomons) man would sav, talking
“Colo lomosu. Colo lomosu” really means water
that is ever running, rippling and prattling along;
and the Solomons apply the term to continued,
thoughtless talk. I have seen all these black brothers,
and the South Sea Islander—in staving power,
fighting, bushcraft, house-building, canoe-making and
all branches of primitive life—can lick the binghi
blind. In inventing words it is the same. Why, in
one dialect of the South Seas you will find aimost
as many invented or coined words as there are words
in the whole vocabulary of the binghi. When the
Shortland Islander first received the dog to his
bosom he at once named it ow-ow. Then the pig
came along to share the family spud, and was
called ungh ungh. Trousers they call poko tee (poko,
clothes; and tee, a man. The Ruhiana native’s
name for hospital is veato moho (veato, house;
moho, sick). Medicine they call colo moho, i.e.,
sick-water. Matches they name nika pindala (nika,
fire; pindala, one who strikes). Once had a crew
of Island “boys,” who sighted a vessel and informed
me of the fact. I didn’t bother to go out to see the
boat, but asked the boy if it was a steamer. “No.”
Schooner? “No.” Square rig? “No.” Then he
informed me it was a put put. The first few oil-
engine auxiliary vessels taken to the South Seas
were fitted with old-tvpe Hercules engines, and you
would hear the put put, put put for miles on a still
night. This class of vessel is still “put put,” and
will always remain so to the Islander. Taken all
round, the South Sea Islander could sell the binghi
a fish-ball stuffed with sand and make him believe
it was fresh-caught rock cod.
* * * *
“Kobbi”: The question is. Can a man
be fined for “language” if he uses it in his sleep?
At Cairns (Q.), recently, evidence was given by the
constable that, being telephoned for, he presented
himself outside the residence of the language, and re-
mained outside for lOmin., during which time the
zigzag expressions continued to waft themselves about
the neighborhood. Whereupon he entered and ar-
rested the language reservoir, and had to wake it
up to do so. The accused pleaded: “Muster been
talking in my sleep.” Case dismissed.
* * * *
“The Nipper” : Bill—you know Bill —
lately had a nerve-destroying encounter with a scrub
turkey, which he tree’d on the Dawson. Bill told
me about it this way: “I was out with the ole gun,
when I spots the bird a-sittin’ on a limb about Sft.
off the groun’. I sneaks on to ’im, an’ lets fly.
talcin’ no charnst, mine yer, bein’ meat-’ungry. I
blew feathers off ’im, but ’e never shifted a hinch.
Then I gives ’im the magazine, but got nothin’ but
feathers. Bein’ natorally a bad-tempered cuss, I
fires my belt full at ’im. Gorblime, there e’ was still
a-sittin’ on the limb, with not a blarsted feather on
’im.”
* * * *
“J. W. Flanagan,” concerning an Austra-
lian abroad: —
Many of the Western States of America are paying
marked attention to the Australian gum-tree, par-
Southern California, where it is being cul-
tivated to great advantage. Besides being planted
for shade in the streets and parks, great tracts of
land are being devoted to its cultivation for com-
mercial purposes. The tree grows surprisingly fast,
and is usually very straight and tall. As firewood its
corpse brings the highest price in the market —I
have known it to be as much as 16 dollars a cord
in Los Angeles. The timber is also extensively used
in furniture-making, and some of the most stylish
chairs I ever saw were made out of it. The wood
polishes beautifully, and it has a lustre and grain
which even mahogany does not surpass. Strange to
say the manufacture of eucalyptus oil has not yet
been gone into any great extent; a druggist told
me that most of the oil used in America is Austra-
lian, but imported via Germany.
AFTER A NIGHT AT THE PUB.
"’Ad a dream list night. Dreamt Had sold the
farm an’ stock to a bloke fer £10,000,000."
“ Thought there waz somethink like that. I
spoke to yer several times durin' the night,
an’ ycr was so purse-proud yer wouldn't take
no notice uv me.”
“Bangaroo”: Re “Jack Warrigal” and
“The Horse and his Sensitive Nose.” Never knew a horse
that objected to new-laid eggs in his feeding trough
On the other hand, I’ve owned more than one nag
that would scoff eggs faster than a dozen hens could
produce them.
*.. * * *
“Yalgun”: “Marloo” (B. 23/2/T1) resur-
rects an old myth when he speaks of pigii
cutting their throats when swimming. I
have repeatedly seen swine taking aquatic
exercises. Knew a “cocky” at Bexhill, Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.), who had to fence
along the river side of his pig run to prevent
gninters swimming across and helping themselves
to young corn on the opposite bank. At a spot
where the punt crosses the Orara River, passengers
often * saw numbers of pigs swimming among the
river weeds, and regaling themselves on the same.
Never knew one pig to have his throat cut, in either
case, except by the local slaughtermen.
RESTLESS NIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The first faint fowl sighs sadly, meek and mild,
By distant arc-lights plaintively beguiled
To thoughts of dawn. The feline on the tiles
Steals to the trysting, full of feline smiles,
And bursts into wild laughter, shortly, when
I’m just about to fall asleep again.
The clock strikes two. In language strong and terse
I put my bitter thoughts into a curse
Upon these restless nights, when I must sprawl
Wide-eyed, and count the clock-ticks as they call
Their cackling promise of a crimson dawn,
When I shall rise, at last, and mow the lawn.
A far, sad cow lifts up her voice and cries,
And, full of helpless rage, I curse her eyes ;
I sit up in the dark and firmly damn
All cows that cry by night or day, and slam
My pillow hard upon its rocky bed,
Whence long that gentle angel, Sleep, hath fled.
Oh, blow the moments, flopping clumsily
Into oblivion, leaving sleepless me
To hear John Dunn clump slowly down his beat;
To hear the late sport’s heavy, tangled feet
Go by ; to lie and wait until the morn
Brings to my door an Argus, newly born!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
THE MAJOR PORTION.
[Foe The Bulletin.]
A prominent permanent Rechabite informed the
cold-water conference in Melbourne that there were
22,000 youths in that city alone, whose haunts were
the street corners, the dancing hells and the bars.
“In consideration of this shocking juvenile deprav-
ity,” said the permanent Rechabite, “all Rechabites
should bestir themselves.” It was cordially (tem-
perance cordials) agreed that those 22,000 youths
must be dragged into the Rechabite tents. If that
were done, the major portion of political power
would soon rest with the temperance party.
Young men who'on the city street
Your daring deeds recite,
Or dance on trim, ungodly feet
At vulgar, hops by night,
Take heed, be hasty to repent,
And swarm in Brother Manger’s tent.
Forsake the pubs’ pernicious beer,
And cut the dancing out;
Drink water in the tents, and hear
The whales of temp’rance spout.
Their talk is neither smart nor new,
But, oh, it is so good for you !
Devote yourselves to water-pots,
Get only water-tight.
Boss Rechabites will teach you what’s
To set the country right.
It can be righted in an hour
By utilising water-power.
When all our youths are Rechabites
No Parliament will know
The politician who invites
Fell whisky’s vicious glow.
Praise God, the power to rule all men
Will be the Mauger portion then !
victoria.
SLLAS SNELL


ħ
Carters
■ITTLE •
IVER
PILLS.
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Relief Permanent Cure.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
surely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress—cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE -must bear Signature
PLASMON
THE GREAT NERVE
AND BRAIN FOOD.
PLASMON COCOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE,
PLASMON BISCUITS, PLASMON GAIX
Send for C. B. Fry’s Book on Training,
Post Free on application to
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
j. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Gent s Fx?R Watch
IS a f-plate Lever—has 15 Jewels.
HAS a Ruby Roller Jewel.
HAS a Brequet Hairspring’.
HAS a Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
IS guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
two (2) years (breakages excepted) without
charge.
WILL stand hard riding and knocking about.
IS made in every style of case.
IT goes with profound accuracy.
EXTRACT of a letter from a constituent at
Bundarra : —“ I might here mention for your
pleasure that I have worn one of your watches
for nearly nine years, and during that time it
has given every satisfaction. It has had very
hard usage, having had several falls—one
from a buildirig'about 80ft.”
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures Cash.] 23 Hunter Street.
/
N
M
Gent.’s J-plat.e Lever Movement, Oxidised Steel
Movement, Open-face Case, 15 Jewels, 33/-;
7 Jewels, 28/-. Also in Silver and Gold.
ilu u r c< a ” (B. 19/1/T1) is
right. ar Sheep a will & thr'ough a
water provided they don’t get a rin .
spell. I know of some weaners on
Dalby (Q.) that were born in a paddock: •••
as much water in it as there is gr there
Wowser. Through carelessness, they ti h
for 12 months, and had nothing to drink ail through
that time. When found, they were still m good
condition. On being shifted to another paddock
they had to cross the Condamine River, an
sheep they refused to drink.
“Geofred” ; The cow that some months ago
wandered into a pub in Victoria finds fresh niates
every day In Hay recently, one >f the town s Mrs.
Bungs was fined for letting the famiv milk stray.
Strawberry had, it seemed, rambled through a loca
store—in at the grocery door and out on the drapery
side. And at Listnore, a few days back, a steer
broke loose from a mob and entered a jewellery
store. Walking right up the shop he thrust his nose
over an expensive glass table-case loaded with flag lie
valuables. There was no room for the beast to turn,
so the only thing to be done was to promptly shift
the glass case and shoo- him out through the man-
ager’s office at the back.
Owm.-ssione-t- O'Cd'llcXdKar-i
Vic.
police, f^ce
chdraa
i«"
Jfie- poV’Ce dunA j
le&T'irV me. /
UnrjbrVmi’Y
!<*
•nc CAn.ne Cpp
c\n dtfre^f
K^ orlt - A>s Y? MovJ ' 1
S>s^
- '
k •' v,c(i n worr.eAp-
c\o(g or> U'a C
0<JY%eX
-wiU Contmue afpre^iciWe.
Ihe,
ef i/e£nf ffe. |
'a^fa ßl) - lS - ■>„„,. . hrr<
THE DOGS OF LAW.
“Geofred” : Various Aboliars have at dif-
ferent times claimed superior sagacity for various
breeds of dog; but I believe politicians can be as
sagacious as poodles. I have three recent instances
in mind. First case: Jack West, the present Labor
M.H.R. for East Sydney, had been for a couple of
elections making the pace willing for G. 11. Reid,
with the result that the same G. Reid didn’t wait
for the 1910 elections, but got in out of the wet by
accepting the High Commissionership in London.
In 1910 West won the East Sydney seat easily.
Second: Kidston’s position as junior member for
Rockhampton began to play shaky, so Wullie gave
himself a billet on the Prickly Pear Board. Now
the Kidder’s seat has been won for Labor Third:
Newton Moore, who was the member for Bunburv
(and incidentally Premier), resigned to become
Agent-General for W.A. And Labor has likewise
won the Bunburv seat. I don’t like dogs getting
credit for all the sagacity.
“Wang” ; Does any Abo. know a higher price
paid for a dingo corpse than £44? I knew one that
brought that much. He was a huge white beast,
in himself a curiosity, as I understand that albino
dingoes are rare, and he frequented the districts
between the Barcoo and Thomson Rivers, near the
junction of the two. His weakness was a sheep
diet, and four mutton-proprietors offered a reward
of £lO a-piece for a permanent cure of the habit.
Subsequently the price was raised to £ll each, and
‘ Old Snowy,” as he was called, was knocked down
at that.
* * * *
“H.J.D.”: The curious thing about the
gidyea, gidya or gidgee, is that, though the leaves
exude *a scent like an old corpse, more particularly
before the coming of rain, the wood, when polished,
has an extremely agreeable smell, very like raspberry
jam. In fact, it is known in Westralia under that
name. , On account of the high polish it will take,
the wood should have a high commercial value in the
future for veneers. By the way, talking of native
timbers, can anybody tell me whether the emu apple
tree can be transplanted ? It makes a fine shade;
but, from all I can learn, it throws a- “seven” if
you try to shift it from its original surroundings.
“Augustus Blowfly” tells the story of how
wily Konstantin avoids bad debts :
“You talka da strong man!” cried Konstantin—-
“Jacka d’ Johnst,’ Ilackenschmitta—bah! I tell you
stronger man than heem live all day in da room be-
hind da ovst. Mad Raff we call heem —ver’
strong, ver’ dangerous. Once Spiro throwa da oyst’
at heem in fun. Mad Raff he throwa da till at Spiro,
breaks da front teeth, spoila da cooking for weeks.
Another time Mad Raff take-a da oyst’ knife to fat
poleece, and ver’ near m Yes’day drunk sailor
order da fry: we bringa da fry an’ drunk sailor say
bad fry, no pay, fighta da crowd. So Spira an’
George take chairs to drunk sailor, catcha da punch-
on-da-nose, fall over, break seex plate— ver’ bad bus’
ness. Then I take-a da oyst’ knife to drunk sailor,
drunk sailor wipe me over face with cray’—spoil
Cray’, break seex more plates —teerible bad bus’ness.
All sit on floor, call-a Mad Raff ; he no come. Drunk
sailor say: ‘By cripe, / fetch heem!’ rush to liddle
door, Mad Raff come out, fall on top sailor, stun
him. When Mad Raff see he stunned, he catcha da
scruff and kicka-da-behind up, down shop two, t’ree,
seex time; then heave-a to pave’ and run like mad
to pleece station. Very strong, Mad Raff—ver’
dangerous, yiss! T’ank you—one-an-seex.”
“Yarrum”: At Araluen (N.S.W.) a neigh-
bor of mine, a retired bushranger, took to rolling on
his lawn of mornings. At first I thought that re-
morse for the chances of robbery he had missed
had eaten into his brain; so I seriously thought
of laying an information and having him removed;
but he took me into his confidence one night over a
game of billiards. He explained that he rolled
daily for the same reason that a horse does—that it
is Nature’s way of removing inward obstructions.
All his people, it seemed, were subject to and died
of appendicitis; and he was in “mortal dread of it.”
The lawn was a sloping affair, and the rolling
’ranger used frequently to bump the bottom fence
hard. That is probably why he died, before I left,
of cancer in the stomach. Still he escaped the
appendicitis.
“Maple” : Saw a queer sight the other
day. Avery dead, full-grown, whip-tail ’roo in the
fork of a tall apple tree, with two black eagles in-
vestigating its contents. Can any Aboliar tell me
if whip-tails fly, or if eagles indulge in weight-lifting
contests? It seemed to me like a Hell-sent allegory
of the colored agony dissecting Australia, who had
been killed while waiting for her kid soldiers to
grow.
* * * *
“Wonga”: Concerning the water-hyacinth,
which is, beyond doubt, spreading rapidly on the
northern coastal rivers of N. S. Wales, “Itan” (B.
16/3/’ll) suggests a sub-department to deal with
that curse, and likewise prickly-
pear, blackberry, etc. What’s
the use? There is plenty of
power now to deal with these
things, but the same old trouble
crops up every time. When an
attempt is made to have any
particular curse poleaxed, the
“backbone of the country,” es-
pecially the squatting joints of
it, endows the curse with all
sorts of virtues. That is, of
course, the moment the land-
owners think they are to part
with some lucre to eradicate it.
Pretty well every noxious weed
in the country thus finds a bar-
racker—prickly-pear, star thistle,
Patterson’s Curse, melon vine,
sweet briar and the rest. They
all turn up as “capital fodder
for stock in drought time” and
so on. The truth is that stock
will then try and eat any old
thing, however noxious. They
have been known to wrestle with
a copy of an Anti-Sosh news-
paper. Consequently, there is
probably no country in the world
with so much good soil covered
with so much bad rubbish as
Australia, and it’s getting worse.
The toughest feature is the way
the different weeds are getting
from one district into another.
Travelling stock is mostly to
blame for this. Cookies will take
a mob of sheep into a good pad-
dock for a night or two for the
sake of a few shillings, and get
it filled up with some new weed.
Patterson’s Curse is a case in
point. Starting on the Upper
Murray, it is working steadily
down past Wagga. Last summer
writer noticed a neat, purple
patch in a clean holding miles
ahead of any other sign of the
pest. It told its own story:
travelling sheep camped for a
night. It was, when seen, in
full bloom; and next year it
will be over twice as much coun-
try. “Gwy’s” idea of making oc-
cupiers destroy these noxious
weeds is nothing new. That
power lies with the Shire Coun-
cils now; but when it is pro-
posed to so deal with the pest,
friends spring up for it whole-
sale. Later on it is agreed that
the “cost of eradication would
be too heavy a burden on pro-
perty-owners,” and the thing is
let slide. That’s the short and
true history of most curses in
most districts in the Ma State,
anyhow.
“T. J.M.” asks :
How’s this for toughness? Shot a black snake
with a Winchester rifle, less than 10yds. from me.
It dislocated his locomotive gear, and I finished him
per stick. Got the surprise of my life, on turning
him over, to find the bullet had not gone through
him. His elastic belly had stopped it.
The Bulletin reckons that the tale matches the
belly.
* * * *
“W.C.M.”,: I spent one Sunday last
spring watching a co-operative building society.
The shareholders were 12 black magpies, who had
taken up selections in various trees near the Mur-
rumbidgee. They set to work to build one nest at
a time, bringing mud and other materials, while a
pair sat on a close handy tree and seemed to boss
operations. Perhaps it was a wedding gift from the
local choral society, or they were the winners in the
Magpie Star-Bowkett. Anyway, by sundown the
pair had shifted in and the missus started straight
away in her own particular line of business. A few
days later half a dozen nests were built, and I sup-
pose they were all done the same way. Can other
Abo. writers give similar instances? I’m prepared
to swear to this before three Jay Pees —including
“Jimmie Pannikin.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany. '
Demos: No; there is no plural voting;
but electors may drop their votes in where they
think they will do most good—for the electorate
where they have an office, or for the other one where
they have a home. .. . J. 5.8.: It is a painfully bald
story, and the hero’s triumph is a very small one.
You lead the guileless reader to think he is about
to ignite the damp old Thames, and leave him per-
fectly satisfied with a blazing washtub.... J.H. (V.):
We are not very clear what you are driving at
through the wordy fog. Anyhow, “reaping” does
not rhyme with “seeking.” Nautically speaking, the
poem is now ashore and fast breaking up....P.8.:
“The Old Wife” says nothing new. It is a way old
wives have Elodie: No, thanks D. Roach:
Gritty, irritating jingle—or jangle. . . .Albus: The
chief fault of your precise telegraphic verse is that
it is rather disjointed. Herewith a few extracts
from the urgent message:
Australia realizing quick
Her danger and her need,
Soon delegates to far lands sends
McKenzie —Elwood Mead.
Of irrigation lands and schemes
These delegates oft tell,
Till federated States of south
Are world-wide known and well.
Of Swedish settlements some tell,
Of Baptist pastors too,
Eager to visit Sunny South
If but free passed right thro’.
Those who have settled here awhile
Of progress give report,
Their bank accounts have grown quite large
In time amazing short.
Edrad: Not sufficient skill J.R.0.: It is
almost a matrimonial advertisement. The only thing
it lacks are the words, “View above.”.... A.H.: One
of the few coherent statements we can discover is
that you got into the habit of shouting gin for the
beautiful barmaid, and that she rapidly deteriorated
in consequence. Never try to preserve your barmaid
with gin. .. .A. South: Merely the shaky skeleton of
a story... .J.M.: Your chance is poor, anyhow; but
it would be a lot better if you would arm yourself
with a typewriter or a pen instead of a dim pencil.
The man who sends shadowy scrawls on shiny paper
is regarded as an enemy in this office. . . .L.M. (Dar-
linghurst) : True, but uninteresting. A public which
has to be instructed furtively and elevated by stealth
would rather that you were brilliantly inaccurate. . .
L. : One blast from the tremendous overture
to your yarn—“lf the consistency of this story should
meet with disapproval, I shall be sorry to say, and
lay down here the thoughts of unborn sorrow.”
After glancing at the story, we hastily decided to
meet it with disapproval. There isn’t much demand
for unborn sorrow, f. .J.R.: One of the driest rhymes
that ever came out of a pub... .W.McD.: You are
fined one bottle of rum by the Religious Editor, J.P.,
for loitering on the Inky Way and obstructing the
poetic foot traffic... .R.L.: “Spirit of War” tested,
and found underproof... .J.G.: No use; returning
M 5.... Arthur II.: Five pages of spasms L.S.
(V.): Afraid cannot use it .Zilma: The opening
sentence is good—-“I never took much stock in
curses.” It reminds us of that fine beginning,
“‘Hell!’ said the Duchess.” Unfortunately, the
rest of the story is, by comparison; wretched....
F.8.G.: War song almost slashed its way through,
but started its charge a bit late. .. . W.G.L.: Un-
skilful work. Cannot criticise MS. by letter....
T.W.D.: Can’t award you the golden cross, so it has
to be the wooden leg. G.R.8.: “Reason” is hardly
good enough. Other may d 0... . Bellerive: Have
sorted out the only romance from the mass of
tragedies:
THE ST. SINGER.
A wealthy bachelor was seated before a fire
In an hotel sitting room,
When the sound of a woman singing
Wafted out thro’ the still night gloom;
Marble Halls was the song she sung
In the face of the drifting sleet,
And the bachelor listened with a saddened heart
To the poor singer in the street.
He opened the window of his cosy room,
And gazed down at the singer Below,
Whom sweetly rendered her pathetic song
And fell prostrate upon the snow.
He hurried down the stairs of the grand hotel
Where the lights did glitter and glare,
And made his way to the homeless girl
Shut out in the freezing air;
Fascinated by the outcast’s charms
He rescued her from her piteous life,
Procured her comforts in the grand hotel
And made his lawful Wife.
. ...D.H.S.: Sorry can’t use. Returning MS
M. : “The Man, the Girl and Mrs. Grundy” last
seen going amiably arm-in-arm towards the basket.
... . W.G.McD.: Verses commonplace. . . .Itur : Story
unsuitable; verse most unsuitable .S.L.H.: The
wicker alligator swallowed it... Sandy McNab: “Tae
the Commonwealth electors” is bad verse and worse
nonsense.... Bloore: Room for something good on
the subject; but yours isn’t striking.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Wanted: Thanks; but don’t see a picture in it.
.... Gravesend: Not a smile in an acre of it
W.F.K.: A long road to travel yet.'
“Mimosa”: If “Bush Botanist’s” (B.
9/3/Tl) knowledge of plant life is not more acute
than his palate, he cannot pose as an Abo. authority.
He wrongly describes the common “bosch” or “bush
tea” plant of S’Africa as a species of Leptospernum.
The common bush tea referred to by him is sold
throughout S’Africa by storekeepers at a couple of
pence per lb., and is gathered by natives and
“poor whites” from three various species of Cassia.
Cassia leaves are the good 3 out of which senna tea is
made. If “Bush Botanist” had stated that he had
tasted tea made from “Gwari” leaves, which is an aro-
matic beverage, he would have been nearer the mark.
The “Gwari,” which is a large tree, is, not, how
ever, a species of Leptospernum.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
Ainiavana
aoj
Trade Mark Case.
A WARNING.
It having come under our notice that various
substitutes are sometimes sold and passed off
as 0.T,, notice is hereby given that this practice
is a breach of the Trade Marks Act, and con-
sequently illegal, as O.T. is a Registered Trade
Name, and applies only to the beverage made by
this Company.
After this date all persons who so continue to
pass off other drinks as O.T. will render them-
selves liable to proceedings under the “Common-
wealth Trades Marks Act.”
O.T. LIMITED,
F. M alvin Quinn,
March 1, 1911. Acting Managing Directo*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mrs. Piercy, the wife of a South Coast
(N.S.W.) doctor, has successfully promoted the
first Woman’s Rifle Club in Australia. The mem-
bers were presented to his Ex. Chelmsford when
he recently motored through that corner of the
State.
The Longmans-Green London publish-
ing house has a book in hand, “British Dominions:
Their Present Commercial and Industrial Condi-
tion.” Professor Ashley, of Birmingham Uni-
versity is the editor, and George Reid, as the
principal Australian contributor, will no doubt ex-
plain what a blessing the tiger of Sosh has been
to the Commonwealth.
GEORGE WHELCH, CHAMPION
SCULLER (M.L.).
Thomas Ballantyne, an old identity of
Maoriland, who died in that much-mortgaged
country recently, was the man who gave Richard
John Seddon his first job in the Islands. Ballan-
tyne emigrated from Londonderry to Melbourne
in 1840, and thence passed to the M.L. West
Coast gold rushes, where he became a contractor.
He was constructing what was known as the Big
Dam at Kumara when young Seddon “tapped
him for a billet,” and was started with a shovel ;
and so well did he perform with the instrument
that the boss was never quite reconciled to the
change “Dick” made in professions. To a
statement one time made in his hearing that
“Seddon was the greatest statesman M.L. ever
had,” Ballantyne replied : “ Maybe ; but he had
the makings of a great pick-and-shovel man.”
When Cardinal Moran first
arrived in Australia he was a
“ bigoted ” teetotaler, and merci-
less to anyone under his
authority who indulged to excess.
In the battling veteran’s early
days in N. S. Wales, while
travelling by coach in the Back-
blocks, he found himself seated
between the driver and a jovial
priest, who, while the coach was
descending a steep hill, was
asked by the Jehu to put his foot
on the brake. This his Reverence
did, but the wry face he made in
doing it was noticed by his
ascetic superior. “ What is the
matter, Father MacKinahan ? ”
coolly inquired the Archbishop.
“Oh, your Grace, Pm greatly
troubled wid rheumatism, and
me fut’s very sore this
mornin’.” “Father MacKina-
han,” suggested the Archbishop
icily, “ perhaps if you took a little
less whisky at dinner you might
have a good deal less gout.”
“Ah !” expostulated the priest,
“ it’s rheumatic gout I’ve got—if
your Grace had to get up on a
cold midnight to ride 20 miles
to a sick-call and swim creeks,
perhaps you might be glad to take
a little something to warm your
heart.” “Father,” continued" Dr.
Moran, in a conclusive but
more kindly tone, “let us
hope there will be no gout in
Heaven.” ‘‘Perhaps there won’t, your Grace,”
returned Father Mac; “ but, anyhow, I hope
there’ll be a lot more sympathy for it.” In cleri-
cal circles it is understood that there is much
more sympathy even on earth for “ rheumatic ”
gout than when the Cardinal first came, and the
bhoys have hope that, when his Eminence reaches
his 90th birthday, he will greet them at Manly
with a two-fingered blessing and a three-fingered
nip.
Editor H. E. Boote, of Brisbane Worker,
has quitted that office to join the staff of Sydney
Worker. As a writer about Arcadias, Boote has
very few rivals; but, as he once mournfully re-
marked, wehave to come down from the Delectable
Mountains to scramble for our dinner.
Oom Bill Lyne, back from America, looks
more than ever like uncle Paul Kruger. Which
was the “slimmer” of the pair History only can
decide. Bill has had a hearty welcome back, by
reason of his reputation as one matchlessly loyal
to his personal friends. Such loyalty was preached
as a creed in Oom Bill’s beloved roost, the Sydney
Warrigal Club. “It’s easy to stick to your
friends when they’re right,” old Jack Robertson
used to say, “but give me the man who’ll stick
to me when I’m wrong.”
“Locust” : Travelled from Cairns a year
ago in the wrecked Yongala. We had a cyclone
about the place where the vessel is supposed to
have been wrecked, and a better-behaved ship it
would be impossible to have under you. Captain
“Bill ” Knight was a fine character. He would
tell you his adventures, which were voluminous,
from his start before the mast, and down to and
including two very serious operations in Mel-
bourne. He escaped the perils of the operating
tables only to go down with his ship. There was
a cat on board named Tom Yongala. The animal
was reported to have an uncanny sense of bad
weather, and would drop off at intervals and stay
ashore for a trip or so. Generally when Tom was
absent the ship was in for a rough time. One
can imagine Tom standing on the wharf, a lonely,
desolate tabby waiting for the ship that never
returned. I wonder if any of the Adelaide S,S.
Co.’s wharf people can tell us what happened to
Tom Yongala !
Entry in Time’s duty book last week :
“To report for duty with Maoriland agency in
Eternity, George Hart.” Fifty-seven years ago,
as a youth, George Hart was apprenticed to learn
the compositor’s trade in the office of the old
Canterbury (M.L.) Standard. At the end of his
time (1859) he crossed to Melbourne and “snatched
stamps ”on Bell’s Life. Like so many comps.,
he early set his mind on the literary side of the
newspaper business, and promptly snapped an
opportunity offered to join the Ovens and
Murray Advertiser as a reporter. From there
he returned to M.L., and spent the eight following
years alternately as compositor and reporter. In
1870 he got a berth on the Christchurch Press as
a reporter, and worked to the position of chief of
staff, which he held when his last assignment was
booked. An enraged and important politician
once exploded to the writer, after having been
scalded by the Press, thus: “S’help me, if it
wasn’t for my regard for old George Hart, I’d
well the rotten rag ! ” It was
a high compliment in the circumstances.
The Independent Cable service told the
other day that John N. Longden, Australian min-
ing engineer, had died in misery, possibly of sheer
starvation, in New York. To those who knew
the honest and generous Longden in other days,
this news came as a stab, for he was a man among
men, and loved on every mining field which ever
felt his steps. He left Ballarat more than 30
years ago while in the prime of life, and must
have been 65 years old when he passed out. The
present writer, who had known Longden in the
Far North, last met him in London. That was
before the days of cyanide, and he was then en-
deavoring to perfect a process based on the idea
of passing finely-powdered refractory ore through
heated mercury. This scheme, which was re-
ported on by the pallid and ghost-like Prof.
Crookes, of radiometer fame, came to nothing ;
but Longden, who in the course of his career had
been associated with the invention of many in-
genious and useful mining appliances, worked on,
and ultimately found his way to America, from
which country his Australian friends had heard
nothing of him for many years.
THE COUPON CRAZE.
ST. PETER: “ What’s this you’ve brought?”
APPLICANT: “Fifty thousand coupons for a seat
in Paradise.”
The late Speaker “ Joey ” Bell’s toughest
c , , • IAAO i , •• .
fight was in 1902, when he was up against David
Tone Dillon, barrister, and then editor of the
Dalby (Q.) Herald. Dillon arrived in Dalby in
1900, with the suppressed intention of capturing
the seat for Labor, and during a year or two
flayed Bell for neglecting his constituency. A
vitriolic newspaper war ensued, Bell having con-
trol of the columns of the Record, a rival local
journal. The climax came at the elections in
1902, when Bell found himself opposed by Dillon,
In those days there was plural voting, and the
franchise had not been extended to women. The
counting of votes occupied several days, during
which Bell and Dillon were alternately on top,
and Bell finally led by a dozen votes. That
shaking-up undoubtedly made Bell a better man
and member. Dillon didn’t try again ; his wife’s
ill-health drove him to the dry air of inland, and
nowadays he edits the Inverell (N.S.W.) Argus.
From Maoriland comes word that the re-
port of the death of that old identity Pelorus
Jack, is now believed to be greatly exaggerated.
Harold Leopold Woodmason, one of the
little Australians medically examined and
passed at Camperdown (Vic.) for the Young
Guard, weighed 14st. 41b. He is 17 years old and
sft. sin. high, and his expanded chest measures
44in. It looks like a record.
There is a little Melbourne schoolgirl to whom
the sea has been tragically cruel. Her father was
Gaptain English, who, some seven or eight years
ago, left Lakes Entrance in the little steamer
Glenelg for Melbourne, and was never afterwards
heard of. Though the sea had taken heavy toll
of her, Mrs. English preferred to follow it for a
living, instead of running a business that was
offered her ; so she got a place as chief stewardess
in the Yongala. Now there is only the little
schoolgirl left.
Artist George Lambert has two much-
discussed pictures in this season’s show of the
Modern Society of Portrait Painters, London. A
study, “La Danseuse,” is either loved or
loathed—it seems that you can’t sit on the fence
and view it. The other is “A Dancer Entertains
Jane and Some Portrait Painters”—a large
group subject, said to be reminiscent of the late
Fantin-Latour.
The grapes are very sour for poor, dis-
appointed, disgruntled old “Billy” Trenwith,
the ex-Senator who once stood for Australian
Nationalism, but is now sent to State-Fright in
his native Tasmania. “Do you not think, Mr.
Trenwith, that the best available intellect is in
the Commonwealth Parliament, and not in the
State Parliaments?” queried an elector at his
Delorame meeting. "No!” thundered Tren-
with, with concentrated bitterness. “ A German
sausage could get into Parliament these days.”
Poor, extinct Trenwith—of less account nowa-
days, it seems, than even a German sausage.
“Condot ” writes with boiling blood :
The time has arrived for doing something with Douglas
Brooke Wheelton Sladen. For our enemy hath written a
hook—another of many bad ones. It is called “ Oriental
Cairo,” and the best thing to be said of it is that the
illustrations are good. The letterpress is worse than
bad. The Poet of the Virtues of Condensed Milk for
Babies prints, as the application of an Egyptian seeking
employment, a letter setting forth that his “ means are
circumcised by his large family, consisting of live female
women and three masculine, the last of which are still
taking milk from mother’s chest, and are damna-
ble noiseful through pulmonary catastrophe in
their interior abdomen.” This is vouched for as genuine.
It may be—for it first appeared in a book called “ Baboo
English as ’tis Writ,” by Arnold Wright, published, in
1891. “ D.8.W.5.” should be disowned by Australians.
We are suffering from his patronage. In London, he poses
as an authority on Australian literature. There never was
in Australia a writer with duller literary sympathies;
and there never was a writer who wrote worse verse.
Yet D. B. W. Sladen passes for a representative Aus-
tralian poet, and looms large in his own anthologies.
What should be done with him I don’t know ; but surely
George Reid could be asked to tell the people of England
that D.B.W.S. is not an Australian at all, and that he is
not our apostle. Sladen’s claim to Australian citizen-
ship is built on the sad circumstance that he lived in
Melbourne for five years.
COLONEL J. STANLEY (VIC.).
The old folks at the Benevolent Asylum at
North Melbourne have been shifted to the new
home at Cheltenham, a thinly-populated suburb.
Some of the old ’uns strenuously objected to
the remove. Peter Newton, the one-time well-
known pugilist, got back some of his fighting spirit
and said he’d be counted out before he’d go. He
threatened to leave and take out a pension. This
dismayed the authorities for a while, as Peter is
responsible for a lot of the public interest in the
institution. But in the end the soft persuasions
of lady members of the committee and the allure-
ment of a six-mile ride in a swell motor-car on a
sunny day were too much for Peter ; and he went,
looking extremely respectable as he lolled back on
the cushions.
THE PERI AT THE GATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I beseech travellers, when they go to Rome, to deny
themselves the vulgar indulgence of a vain curiosity, and
to refrain, no matter how solicited, from going to see
the Pope. Let them remember that they are Christians.
—A Wowser in Sydney Watchman.
I hate to think about the Romish Pope.
Poor, poor old, lonely, friendless man !
Unless he chucks his job, he may not hope
To shift the agonising ban
Which keeps him rigidly excluded from
The gracious realms of Southern Wowserdom.
It matters not how hard the Outcast pravs,
Nor how he struggles to explain ;
His frantic pleas, the points he seeks to raise
Are each and all of them in vain :
Snowball, though pained, vouchsafes him no reply,
Dill Macky turns on him the Frigid Eye.
Ere Preacher Bloggs, of Deadbeat, starts for “ Home,”
He gravely vows he will not call
On Pius Decimus. Arrived in Rome,
He cuts Pope Pius dead ! And all
Because, besides instructing folks to dodge
Old Nick, Bloggs bosses Deadbeat’s Orange Lodge.
Year after barren year the Pope must go
Toward’s Life’s inevitable goal,
Nor hear the Righteous testify ; nor know
The mental feast and flow of soul
And joy and general uplift which come
From-howling hymns to a harmonium.
I hate to think about the Romish Pope.
Poor, poor, old, lonely, friendless man !
Unless he chucks his job, he may not hope
To shift the agonising ban
Which keeps him rigidly excluded from
The gracious realms of Southern Wowserdom.
n. s.w.
J.B.D.
ALF THE RAINBOW-CATOHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A reference by Mr. Deakin to Mr. Hughes as “chasing
the rainbow” evoked the retort from somewhere at the
back of the hall, “So are you.” “ Yes,” said the leader
of the Opposition ; “ but we caught ours.”— Melb. Agk.
Yersee that bloke? That’s Alf? ’E says that bottle’s
full of adders!
’E cuts th’ sunbeams with ’is knife, an’stamps on people’s
shadders.
’E says there’s two of all us blokes, an’ one day there’ll
be trouble.
Nobody knows what’s up with Alf—’e must be seein’
double 1
’E took us in th’ shade one day, where shadders couldn’t
fuller,
An’ told us Guvvermint was mad, an’ ev’rythirik was
holler;
An’ then 'e said that each of us was like two Simeese
brothers,
An’ “ Commonwealth ” was one part’s name, an ! “ State
Rights ” was the other’s.
’E told me 'e was Commonwealth, but that ’e wouldn’t
trust ’im,
’Cause Commonwealth was mad, an’ if ’e caught State
Rights ’e’d bust ’im ;
’E showed us all th’ knife from which ’e never would be
parted,
An’ said it was to fight ’jmself when revolutions started.
Last Ohoosday down th’ bloomin’ road I seen old Alfie
racin’,
An’someone sihgS out:. “There 'e goes, th’ dam fool,
rainbow-chasin’ I ”
Old Alf was talkin’ to ’iinself. I heard ’im sav “Oh !
what'll
1 put me pretty rainbow in? I haven’t brought me
bottle ! ”
I followed ’im for ’arf-a-mile. ’E found a rusty billy
An’ started scoopin’ at th’ sky, an’ laughin’ like a silly ;
’E plugged th’ billy with ’is ’at an’ sings out: “ Ain’t it
funny ?
I’ve caught th’ pretty thing at last 1 I’ve got me rainbow ,
sonny!
My Dad sayS Alf was once all right, but now ’e’s just a
bladder ;
’E keeps on yellin’ out, “No-No!" an’fightin’ with ’is
shadder ;
They say there ain’t no ’arm in ’im ; but Alf says “ Don’t
you never
Go trustin’ me! As ‘Commonwealth’ I’m robbin’
‘ Rights ’ for ever ! ”
Poor Alf ’e thinks there’s two of ’im, and nearly ev’ry
stranger
Goes inter fits when Alf puffs by an’ yells “ No-No ! ” and
“ Danger ! ”
’E backs an’ whistles like a train that’s shuntin’ at a
sidin’,
An’ says that is the only thing that keeps ’im from
collidin’.
My Dad don’t take no ’eed of Alf becos ’e talks so silly ;
And us blokes laughs when ’e says “ Heigh ! Gotrainbows
in this billy ! ”
’E wouldn’t ’urt a fly, although ’e’s got a knife that’s
rusted,
An’ says there’s two of 'im, an’ one ain’t never to be
trusted.
N.S.W.
THE LITTLE BOY AT YASSBERRA.


□ Q
a ©
TAKE THE
first step to absolute Boot
Satisfaction by buying a
pair of
COWING’S
I*l6
Boots.
The styles shown are par-
ticularly suitable for men of
business and fashion.
Style I —Tan Willow Calf Derby; Black Glac£
Kid Derby; Box Calf Derby.
Style 2 —Tan Willow Calf, Calf lined throughout;
Black Glace Kid, lace and button ; Box Calf.
Style 3 —Tan Willow Calf; Black Glace ,Kid ;
Phoenix Calf; Box Calf.
Style 4 —Tan Willow Calf; Black Glace Kid ;
Box Calf.
Style 5 —Tan Willow Calf; Black Glace Kid ;
Box Calf.
These Boots are made in
Australia especially for us,
and are absolutely guaran-
teed by us.
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL GOODS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
The Austral
Boot Special,
186.
GOWING BROS.,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
486, 488,490 GEORGE STREET; § 7,9,11,13,15 S 17 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.


ĥ
YOU may seek here, there and
everywhere, but you’ll never
find a Boot Polish superior
to Cherry Blossom. It stands
alone as a shiner and leather
preserver.
Cherry Blossom Boot Polish
is sold by most dealers in 3d. and
6d. tins—Black and Tan—the
largest on the market at the price.
If you have any difficulty in
securing-it, write direct to us, and
we will see that you are supplied
immediately. Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Join the Army
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. feheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. It
gives speedy relief whenever applied to a burn,
buster, bruise, or a pain or sore of any nature.
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
If your baby is teething during the
summer months you must guard against dysentery
and bowel complaints. Keep a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy in
the house, and at the first unusual looseness of the
bowels give it a dose.*
A RHEUMATIC
CRIPPLE.
Tells How He Banished Suffer-
ing; and Pain*
Could just drag; along;—Cured by
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills,
«,
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are recommended to
rheumatic sufferers with confidence because they
have cured hundreds of cases of rheumatism.
That is the greatest test any medicine can have—•
the ability to cure. Mr. 0. Shanahan, bootmaker,
of 67 Buckingham Street, North Richmond,
Melbourne, was so badly attacked by rheumatism
that often he could hardly drag one foot after the
other, and the weight of the bedclothes was some-
times agonising to his aching muscles and joints.
Mr. Shanahan’s story, given in his own words, will
be of interest to anyone suffering with rheumatism.
“I could not make it out at first,” he said,
“but I noticed severe muscular pains coming into
my legs from the feet to the knees. I got worse
attacks as time went on. The attacks might go
away for a week or so, or appear for a fow days ;
but once I was laid up for five weeks in bed most
of the time, and unable to go out, and then I was
attacked in arms and shoulders as well. I was
always freer from the pain in winter, but I dreaded
the summer, for I always suffered then. The per-
spiration would run off me with the pain. I felt
every change in the weather. There was no siern
externally, but the muscles of the legs would feel
as if they were being all drawn up and twisted.
I was always having the parts rubbed with lini-
ments ; but I could not find any relief. I could
not bear any heavy bedclothes, the parts were so
sore and tender, and the warmth always made me
feel worse. I would lie awake afraid to move. I
was afraid for anyone to come near me. When
the attacks were on me I dreaded the least touch.
My legs were so stiffened that walking was most
painful. I would just drag my feet after me, and
I dare not put them on any cold surface. I might
feel quite well one moment, and perhaps the
slightest change of weather would bring on an
attack. I would have to get up and walk ahout if
I had been resting awhile, and again if I had been
walking home very tired I would have to go and
lie down. lam glad to say that a course of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills took the complaint right
away. lam only too glad to give this testimonial
to help any other sufferer. This remedy cured
me, and I have not had any sign of the rheuma-
tism since. My limbs are as supple as could be
wished.”
Remember, only the genuine Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into taking
something said to be just as good. Of all dealers
at 2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d., or from the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
Sydney.*
m aFirra
It is essential
that a Truss
fits correctly
—for safety
and comfort.
As Specialists
we ensure
exact fit in
every case.
Our Special
Elastic Truss
{rives perfect
safety and has no irritating springs. DEIMYER
BROS., Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
cr. Swanston & Lonsdale Sts.. Melbourne.
OENYER
©
Single 17/6;
Double 22/6
Call or write.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Joke Cook, heckled by a Hobart audience,
said that there was no danger of trusts in Aus-
tralia assuming the power and proportions of the
American article, because the railways in Australia
were State-owned. This declaration, coming as it
did from the gentleman whom the simple folk of
Hobart had been taught to regard as the accepted
high priest of Anti-Sosh, fairly convulsed the
meeting, and it rocked on its seat with glee.
THE NO-NO FEDERALIST AGAIN.
Mr. Fisher and Mr. Hughes continually do cry that the
Federal Parliament has absolutely no intention of using
all the powers they want given it. That is well enough,
as far as Messrs. Hughes and Fisher are concerned. No
doubt they are honorable men, and would never use a
power which was not, in their opinion, national. Hut
they can only pledge the present Parliament.— Daily
Telegraph.
CAPTAIN LABOR: “So I’m not fit to be trusted
with, this ship, eh?”
EX-CAPTAIN FAT: “ Oh, nun-no, sir! Wot I
meant wos that—that you’re alt right; but—
but s’posin I should get command again—
well, well, there’s no knowin ’ wot awful
things I might do!”
Tne man on the land got another illustra-
tion in Tasmania the other day of how his friend
the steamship owner loves him, when the co. that
drags the Huon apple crop to Hobart for tran-
shipment to England raised freightage by |d. a
case. The local Mercury hastened to inform
fruitgrowers that the increase had been rendered
necessary by the rise in wharfside workers’
wages, and was only what the producers deserved
for haying voted for the Labor party. The Labor
people' then poked inquiring noses into things,
a nd found that, while the wharf-lumpers, for
shifting 30,000 cases, received £10 more in wages,
the eo. collected £62 10s. from the fruitgrowers in
higher freightage. As the unfortunate fruit-
grower must ship his fruit at once or lose his
market, he is practically helpless in the grasp of
a monopoly. But he is wild, just the same—
almost wild enough to vote “ Yes” on the ques-
tion of giving the Commonwealth power to argue
with trade monopolies.
Nothing doubtful in ‘ ‘ Montserrat ” Lime
.Tuice. It s good and pure. The genuine juice of
cultivated lime fruit, it is an exquisite beverage
for all the year round. A healthv drink for
children.*
The cable briefly notifies that an associa-
tion has been formed in England for the suppres-
sion of debasing and demoralising fiction, and
branches are to spread to the colonies. So the
great “Liberal” dailies are up against trouble
again.
The last straw ! Peter Bowling has now
joined Bruce Smith and Wade in advocating the
“No-No” side in the Referenda. Joint meetings
to be addressed by Peter Bowling and Wade
would “ take well and give pleasure to all.”
Suggested title : “How we leg-ironed Australia.”
Apropos the Americo-Canadian reciprocity
treaty and its probable results, it is well to recall
the sonorous and comprehensive Yankee defini-
tion : “The United States, bounded on the north
by the Aurora Borealis, on the south by the Pro-
cession of the Equinoxes, on the east by the
Rising Sun, and on the west by the Day of judg-
ment.” How stay the march of a nation which
makes phrases like that !
“Aeneas B.”: The “Great Liberal Party”
is recommended to a study of Disraeli’s writings
for a picture of what will happen to the Common-
wealth if Labor’s Referenda proposals are
carried : “Amid the roar of the wind, the bosom
of the earth opened, swift columns of sand sprang
up to the lurid sky and hurried towards their
victim. With the clang of universal chaos, im-
penetrable darkness descended on the desert.”
“ P.X.”: “ You can’t fix prices by law ” is
the latest popular Tory cry in Melbourne, the idea
being to suggest that, armed with power to handle
monopolies, the Labor party proposes to fix prices
wholesale. Alf Deakin talked so much on this
point and was so dead-sure about it that, when I
went to the post office next day to get half a
dozen tuppenny stamps, I put down lid.
“What’s this?” said the attendant. I ex-
plained that I wasn’t going to pay any tuppence
for tuppenny stamps. “ Well, then,” said the
ignorant person in the cage, “ you can’t have ’em.”
“Can’t! I shouted. “Can’t! why can’t I?”
“ Simply,” answered the fool, “because the Law
says you’ve got to pay tuppence for the sort of
stamps you want.” Absurd," isn’t it ?
The No-noes never give one “ reason ” for
voting their way without knocking out another
“ reason.” Mrs. Bogue Luffman, one of their
organisers, issued a catechism for women electors
the other day, and it contained this:—
Q.: Would not the Federal Government give more
power to the workers ?
A. : No ; it would only transfer power from the State
to the Commonwealth.
It is quite true ; but, in that case, what becomes
of the shuddersome yarns about the dreadful
things that are going to happen if the answer is
Yes-yes? For it is admitted that the very same
people who will have the power to do the dreadful
things in the future have had the power to do
them all the time.
Sampson, M.H.R., of Victoria, has dis-
covered another horror which may result from a
“ Yes ” vote on April 26 :
Legislation in regard to forwarding produce from one
State to another was enacted by the State Parliaments.
If the matter came under the jurisdiction of the Federal
Parliament they would probably be in a worse condition,
as, if areas were quarantined, they would be prevented
from operating in any part of Australia. If laws similar
to the Federal quarantine laws existed in regard to
diseased potatoes, districts like Port Fairy and Koroit
would be cut off from trading, not only with the other
States, but also with Victoria. This was what might be
expected if they handed over to the Federal Parliament
those wide and sweeping powers sought under the refer-
endum.
In short, the State at present prevents the N. S.
Wales consumption of diseased potatoes from (say)
Victoria ; but the same diseased Victorian pota-
toes may be supplied to Victorians. And Samp-
son is horrified at the thought that perhaps the
Commonwealth will put a stop to the supply of
diseased potatoes to anyone. It is anew battle-
cry, and the enlightened Sampson can have it all
to himself : “ Vote for State Frights and Rotten
Spuds!”
Ararat (Vic.) is just getting a close view
of the playful little ways of Monopoly. It was
gas in the Ararat case, and the local council
thought to get out of the toils by starting an
electric-light business of its own. “Of course,
you’re perfectly entitled to do it,” said
the co.—“ we haven’t got a monopoly.”
And forthwith, by way of encouraging
the other to come on, it dropped the
price per 1000 ft. from 12s. 6d. to 10s.,
with a special rate of Bs. for Government
institutions. The council came on,
whereupon the co. cut down its price to
the Government by a further Is. 4d.,
and, it is said, completed a five years’
contract with the State. This last was
a staggering clout to the council, for it is
claimed that the success of the municipal
scheme rests on the extent of Govern-
ment support, Government institutions
being unusually plentiful at Ararat. So,
for the present, the scheme is hung up ;
and when it is nicely dead and buried,
the chances are that up will go the
price once more, and the people will thus
be made to pay, as usual, for the knife
which was used to cut the throat of their
own municipal scheme. Meantime the
councl has made a report on the subject. It
naturally inquires w hat the Weary Govern-
ment thinks of itself for helping to flatten
out municipal enterprise, and preventing
the public getting out of the hands of
the dividend-grabber; and it remarks that pro-
bably the end would have been different if Swin-
burne hadn’t been connected with the gas concern.
“Timothy Tufthunter”: “Old Soldier”
B. 9/3/’ll) mentions a very good idea adopted in
the British navy, i.e., granting “hard-lying
money.” Don’t you think the Wimmen’s Leagues
and the capitalist press should be rewarded, too?
What does Fisher say to £10,000,000 ? I know it
isn’t enough, but it would be a small recognition
of great efforts.
Freetrade Hodge, tothenumberofs6, struck
work last May in Norfolk (England). His wages
were 13s. a week, and his hours 6 a.m. to 6 p. m.,
less meal time, six days a week. Hodge demanded
145., or 2s. 4d. a. day, and a Saturday half-
holiday. These impudent demands were resisted
by the employers, and after a seven-months’ fight
half the men went back on the old terms ; the
other half were refused work on any terms.
The 2id.-an-hour vacancies were rushed, and
triumphant Fat watched the vanquished revolu-
tionaries take another reef in the belt and join
the hopeless, endless army of the unemployed.
Australia the saddest country ? Well, perhaps it
is—if you look at it from the point of view of the
man who wants labor at 2|d. per hour.
WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
HIM: "Now, I suppose you think every woman
ought to have a vote.”
HER: “ Well, yes; hut I'd he quite satisfied with
a voter.”
Attorney-General Hughes’s Yes-Yes meet-
ing in Hobart was the biggest that ever assembled
under one roof in Tasmania to hear a political
address. Some 1600 people squeezed into the
building. Until recently there was no hall in the
village with a holding capacity of much over
1000; but the uprising of the Empire, His
Majesty’s and King’s Hall has upset the mono-
poly so long enjoyed by the ancient Royal. With
all these new theatres, Hobart has more sleeping
accommodation than ever.
Bruce Smith, Wade (V.C.), Wood and co.
are continually screaming about the yoke sought
to be imposed upon the people of the Ma State
by some persons unknown in Melbourne —an echo
of the cry of the “Prudent” and other anti -
Federalists when first the Constitution was
framed. “Beware of Victorian Gold,” said
Reid’s famous placard. Now Deakin, of all men,
is trying the same dodge on Melbourne :
Those who suppose that all our affairs can be governed
by 126 men at Canberra are committing themselves to a
line of constitutional concentration which must break
down.
This is Deakin’s way of saying about N.S.W.
what Wade and Co. are saying about Victoria.
In brief, Deakin in Victoria is shouting, “Vote
‘Yes’ at this referendum, and N. S. Wales will
rule and rob you from Canberra,” while Wade and
Co. are yelling in N.S.W., “ Beware of giving the
Victorian despots power to rule you from Mel-
bourne.” It is the old, disgraceful provincial cry
raised again in the interests of State Frights and
Houses of Fat Landlords; and itstamps the “No ”
side as the anti-Federal, anti-Australian side in
this campaign.
THE EVIL THE WOMAN WROUGHT.
THE SPIRITUAL Ad DVISER: “ And what was the
first cause of your downfall? ”
THE BURGLAR: “The woman."
THE SPIRITUAL ADVISER: “And howl”
THE BURGLAR: “She wouldn’t work.”
An example of how the “ Liberal ” party
barracks for free speech, whilst the Labor party
basely suppresses it, is given by the various ex-
periences of Howe, M.H.R., and Cocks, M.L.A.
Howe interjected once or twice when Bruce
Smith was a little more absurd than usual, and
was promptly fired out. Cocks, whilst in Bris-
bane, went to Senator McGregor’s meeting, and,
when he interjected, was invited up to the plat-
form to say his worst for 15 minutes ; and a bored
but patient audience allowed him a few extra
minutes in which to conclude his remarks. The
result of the two incidents was much the same.
When Howe left Berlud Smith’s meeting most of
the crowd went with him and gave cheers for
Australia; and McGregor’s meeting also cheered
enthusiastically for the same Best Place.
The Sydney Clerks’ Union, after wrestling
for three years with Wade and other adverse cir-
cumstances, is now within sight of its thousandth
member. Once a Clerks’ Union was considered
impossible ; to-day it threatens to be the most
influential union in the Commonwealth. The
N.S.W. body has already provided five Labor
members of Parliament, the president of the
Labor Council, a vice-president of the P.L.L.,
and a score of other persons of more or less
prominence in the movement.
HIS TROUBLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
South Africa gave the Union Parliament full power
because for her no other form of government was possi-
ble. There lie ahead of South Africa great national ques-
tions which nothing but full power could tackle—
questions which do not trouble Australia.—Sydney D.T.
No, worry ain’t yet turned me grey ;
I has me three big meals a day
(Includin’ of me beer-feed too),
An’ I ain’t shook on nothing new.
Wot say ? I orter learn to shoot ?
Now, come it easy there, ole coot!
I can’t be bothered with no gun ; .
Just pass the little nipper one —
I want to slumber in the sun,
My troubles 1
Wot’s that ? They says there’s war ahead ?
I wish to Heaven they'd drop down dead
Instead of spoilin’ of me nap ;
Ho, yes I know ! the Chow an’ Jap,
An’ all this foolish, blanky scare—
Oh, let ’em rip ! ’Tain’t my affair.
My troubles!
Wot, immigration ? Give it best!
Now, bloke, do lemme ’ave a rest!
They goes to Canada in shoals?
Well, let ’em ! Let ’em climb the Poles
Or swim about the blanky sea,
So long as they don’t trouble Me l
I got me bus’ness to be done,
I got to slumber in the sun ;
Don’t want no millions—l’m the ONE !
My troubles !
n.s.w.
AUGUSTUS AUSTRALIA.
THISTLES AND BLUFF AND A PAIR OF NOES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T JP*® alternatives which Mr. Deakin submits to the
f. Bch . eme are Progressive Liberalism and a
piactical policy to cope with industrial evils, trade and
commerce, together with the regulation and control of
monopolies and combines. —Sydney D.T. ( 20JSj*ll\
/£" e » S , ev T*’ a “h er b ar i an ,” has opened a restaurant
at St Petersburg where the staple dishes are of roots
and herbs. Hay soup ”is provided at three-farthings
per portion. —News item.
Here is a ballad of Deakin A.
(Thistles and bluff and a pair of Noes),
They re making 1 beautiful soup from bay,
And Alfred’s heard of it, I suppose.
Alf was all right till he fused with Cook
(Thistles and bluff and a pain of Noes),
But later the pair were brought to book,
And ever since that he’s had the Joes.
He looks on things with a State Frights eye
(Thistles and bluff and a pair of Noes) ;
When you’re not in, you are out, that’s why—
And out of office a cold wind blows.
The latest gag is the cheque that’s blank
(Thistles and bluff and a pair of Noes),
The people will loot the people’s bank.
And Deakin rush off with Deakin’s clothes.
Alf says he’ll fill in the right amount
(Thistles and bluff and a pair of Noes)
And carefully nurse our bank account—
Renegade Alf is a beggar to pose.
The ass is fond of the feed so green
(Thistles and bluff and a pair of Noes),
But lately asses have scarcer been.
Which makes hard hoeing in Liberal rows.
All in a stew are the State Frights group
(Thistles and bluff and a pair of Noes),
Doing their best to make thistle soup
And drug with drivel their scornful foes.
n.s.w.
E.O’F.


NICHOLSON’S
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOR
PIANOS
STEINWAY-=BRINSMEAD-=FEI)RICH,
The PicK of the World’s
TRULY GREAT PIANOS.
Musical Instruments in Endless Variety.
We hold the Biggest Stock of
SHEET MUSIC in Australia. .
WE SELL ON EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON 8 CO.
LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, ORANGE,
BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, WARWICK.
The Steady j J j White Light
The Famous «/2x yd Lamp
‘HERE are Lamps that cost more, but there is no
1 better Lamp made at any price. Constructed
on absolutely scientific principles. The Rayo Lamp
is made of Solid Brass throughout, with handsome
Nickel finish. Suitable for any room in any house.
Every Dealer everywhere. If not at yours, write for
descriptive circular to
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
WELLINGTON
AUCKLAND
CHRISTCHURCH
DUNEDIN
FARMER’S,
And Your Easter Suit
t
■
HA
m
M
WE possess the ability to turn
out your Easter Suit to
your entire satisfaction.
Dependable always, because we
value a good reputation and we
cannot afford to make you, or
anyone else, a Suit that will fall
short of Farmer’s High Standard.
Every Suit is cut by our Expert
Cutters, and made in our Pitt
Street Workrooms.
The New Season’s Suitings in-
clude some smart Bannockburn,
Heavyweight Blarney, Donegal,
Harris Grey, Herringbone and
Homespun Tweeds ; also West of
England Tweeds and Worsteds.
Hand = Made Suits,
4 to 5 Guineas.
Special Business and
Holiday Suits,
3 Guineas.
Exclusive Suitings, one suit
length only of each —Hand-
Made, from Guineas.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Form
sent Post Free on request.
Farmer 8 Company, Limited,
SYDNEY.
A GIFT
RAZORS at I|-each
Carriage Paid in New South Wales ; for other parts 2d. must be
added to cover postage.
Fancy buying a decent Razor for i/-? Already we have sent thousands of
these MASTERPIECE RAZORS all over Australia, and even New
Zealand, and repeat orders are daily received.
These Razors are made in Sheffield by Geo. Butler & Co.—a firm with a
Razor Reputation extending over xoo years—highly finished, finest
quality stee., and ready for immediate use.
Every Razor in a proper case.
ALL FOR 11-
We will be perfectly candid with you—if you can buy Razors as good as
these “ MASTERPIECE RAZORS” for less than from 3/6 to 5/-, we
will willingly hand you back your money. We know, and you know
too, it can’t be done.
THESE RAZORS AT 1/- are made of finest quality steel, consequently
keep a keen edge, and it’s a delight to every man who shaves, especially
those who perform this delicate operation every day, to be possessed of
a Razor that will leave the face soft and smooth—there’s nothing in
having a Razor that tears and jags one’s face.
AS SOON AS YOU READ THIS
send your order ; if you live in New South Wales do not add postage, but
if outside the State send
2d. Postage on 1 Razor
3d. Postage on 2 Razors
4d. Postage on 3 Razors
sd. Postage on 4 Razors
Sweet Bros. Ltd.
“Where Biz Hums,”
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.


FARTHEST NORTH.— A PILGRIMAGE TO THE COW COUNTRY.
A Bush Metro*
puis.— The sky-
snapersare built on
piles, and land here is
said to be £2O per foot;
but as the tenure extends from the
centre of the earth to the fixed stars,
this is not d*--
A “SKIDDING” MISHAP.
The car went backwards down a bank as high as the
room you’re sitting in. If you don’t believe it ask Bob
Bell. It was raining very hard, so that “Hop’’ couldn t
get a very exact sketch, especially as it was nearly
dark.
A mountain pass ;|
though it’s difficult I
to see how one could i
!“ pass ” anything!
here. The scenery is!
more pretty than safe ;
It is at such a town as
the above that the rail*
way suddenly terrain 0
ates, owing, it is said,
to an unexpected
change of Govern”
ment. If the trav-
eller desires to
proceed fur-
ther north,
he must
make a dash
per dog-sledge,
on foot or other
means.
Swagsmen in this part of the
woj-ld travel on stilts.
Government Tic t-Inspectors are plentiful here. They sprint
out unexpectedly from tents and hollow logs upon the traveller
‘° d «»' ocf. if.b.y nrTou'toZ
”'f» with » " lz ‘ ure '» «o great Improved
upon the mud.
MOTORING IN THE COW COUNTRY.
A puncture. For reasons clearly set forth above, “Hop” would recommend
dairy farmers to cultivate “ poley ” cows exclusively.
An Accommodation House exterior
and interior.
Hop being too tired to walk the
remaining 40-odd miles ot his Jour-
ney, he managed to secure the mortal
remains ol • horse and sulky-
Scenes on A (Owing to
continuous downpour these sketches
are necessarily /incomplete.)
Also, a young man as guide and driver, whose
knowledge of cows was his chief qualification for
the job. He is here seen calling attention to the
teauties of the landscape — a good deal of which
Hop got splashed upon his clothes and into hit
eye*' in the course of the journey.
On the whole. Hop would recommend
other travellers to do this Journey p©c
bullock team.
mHes In ?6 L WhiCh aCtUa,,y did 104
t™i ?aIJ I r 8 ,’ arrivin2 at after
-Si had started for Sydney,
and all the pubs were shut 1


iKAvtLLiNG by rail in the
COW COUNTRY.
Scene from the Car Window.—
Owing to the rattle of the train,
our artist could not hear distinctly
the language addressed to the bul-
locks.
nop followed the plough
himself when a youth. He gen-
erally followed it to get angle-
worms for fish-baft.
Stuck In the mud Yeo-
manry to the rescue. At
the right of the picture our
artist is seen strenuously look-
ing on. *
Crossing the Richmond.-This open tion was performed
46 umes, going and coming, and in some places the water
came up over the Plimsoll mark. Each time the guide did
not fail to call attention to the landscape.
. . L “ Dch a‘ the " Halfway '> House.— Tea, damper and a
1 6 the only one to be found on a 200-acre farm.
The hen that laid It came into the dining-room
and looked tearfully on while our artist con-
sumed It.


HEIDSIECK
CHAMPAGNE.
V
Vintage 1904. y
of bouquet //
lavor.
Noted for its fineness
and delicacy in flavor
World
ħ
Renowned.
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London,E.C.
D
D O
D
D
. r v
\ :
;%;OV
U 7.
0
/jsL^Phr*
6-3° m
How glad, when the day’s work
is done, we all are to get home
to a peaceful meal and betwe-.n
the sips of a fragrant cup of tea
to discuss the doings of the day;
the people we have met, and
the things they talked of.
Talking of tea, you know tlve
feeing of comfortable satisfac-
tion which follows a cup of
good pure tea —well, you always
get that feeling after arinking a
cup of Robur. It is pure tea,
you know, absolutely pure.
The main thing to be careful
about is that it is fresh, and it’s
eas/ enough to tell whether
Robur is fresh or not by the
date on the package.
UNDER VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE.
MADAME MASSERAN,
CORSETIERE,
of 9 Collins Street, Melbourne, be<rs to inform
her clients that she will he at the HOTEL METRO-
POLE, SYDNEY, from MONDAY, 10th, to SATUR-
DAY, 22nd APRIL, both days inclusive.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney. April 3, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
Chief Justice Griffith received a presentation
portrait of himself from the solicitors of Sydney,
the other day. The four senior pursuers of Costs—
Air. Makinson, Mr. C. A. Laurence, Dr. G. J.
Sly and Mr. Robert Smith—acted as a committee
on behalf of subscribers. Percy Spence was the
artist. At the handing-over a legal atmosphere
prevailed. Mr. Makinson, the very oldest human
law-tome, began his speech : “ By leave of vour
Honor, Chief Justice of the High Court.” Mr,
Alfred Nathan, who gave this presentation por-
trait its first push, modestly hovered in the back-
ground with no limelinht accessories.
INo explosives were present at last week’s rally
of the National Council of Women in the Royal
Society’s House. The rejuvenation of Mrs. Sara
Nolan, who bears the brand of recent European
travel in improved chest measurement, was a
pleasing feature of this mild attempt to drive back
seas of moving-picture shows with a moral-
instruction broom. The weapon was handled in
the proverbial Partington fashion by Mrs.
Ebenezer Vickery, who hurled the full force of
her purse and person at the alleged abandoned
conduct of certain cheap offshoots of the picture-
panorama trade. Miss Rose Scott, whose taste in
bonnets generally causes an eclipse in adjacent
millinery, shook a white tulle pom-pom (a frivolous
thing at best), and refused to believe that weary
workers parted with spare coins because of an in-
ordinate craving to be morally instructed by a
cinematograph.
Miss Meager, of the Y.W.C.A. dove-cot, has
not sufficiently recovered from the imported
English point of view to do more than drape a
threadbare theme —the “thriftless” toiler —with
pleasant platitudes. She is mildly obsessed with the
idea that the poorer parts of Sydney contribute
too much cash to moving-picture money-boxes.
A venerable British superstition requires Hodge
to beware of extravagance, lest out of his princely
income of Bs. a week he should not be able to put
by anything for “the rainy day.” He is there-
fore required to fall down and worship this greedy
god with an old stocking, or a tin pannikin dis-
guised as a savings-bank. Hodge, if he be a
decent, well-brought-up person, knows that he
encumbers the earth for three purposes—to till it,
to pull a forelock to the resident gentry, and to
save enough coppers to burs' his rheumatics with-
out the help of the parish “union.” Miss
Meager’s contribution to the National Council
attack on picture shows missed the Australian
bus by about 14,000 miles.
Between the Hunch of the Australian torpedo-
»oat destroyer Warrego, at Cockatoo Island and
t ie militant attitude of the Peace Society, there
is no prospect of friendly relations. Mrs. Nolan,
who recently scampered through European liquor
acts on behalf of the W.C.T.U., deplored the
‘glamor” of the “military fever” at the last
National Council of discursive women. Mrs.
Nolan is such a soft-voiced, mild-mannered little
woman that even a Licensed Victualler would for-
give her ferocious antipathy to “’arf-an-’arf ” if
ue met her suddenly at a Sunday-school picnic.
The Peace Society does not suffer from scarlet
fever. It lives in a miasma of polite platitudes.
The W.C.T.U. is prepared to offer ginger-pop
even to the hordes of Asia. The “ glory ”of war
is a defunct superstition. But the national neces-
sity of protecting even Peace Societies remains
alive.
The Queen Victoria Club is not showing any
signs of collapse in its tea-and-china department.
By arrangement with other members," Mrs. R.
Mackinnon is lending the club rooms fora welcome
home party to Miss Helen P. Phillips. When'the
intrusion of Ai stralian women into Greek odes
was first countenanced by the Sydney Women’s
College, Miss Helen Phillips was principal of the
dusty-faced terrace house tnat preceded the pre-
sent brick barracks in University grounds.
Sue eventually gave up the serious pursuit, of
logarithms, to teach the elusive Ceylon native how
to say his prayers. 11l health laid her missionary
efforts low. Old girls of St. Catherine’s School,
Waverley—Helen Phillips’s first charge—will
mingle reminiscences and rainbow cake to express
their entire approval of the learned lady’s return
to Sydney.
Strained relations are said to exist between
Mrs. Bogue Luffinann’s club and Mr. W. M.
Hughes, the Federal Attorney-General. The
latter says, “Yes-Yes. Vote for Australia on
Referenda day.” The Queen Victoria Club says,
“No-No.” The well-known comic song, “Waltz
Me Round Again, Willie,” is not a favorite at
the moment in the club’s drawing-room.
Indignant Woman has set her teeth and told
the truth. The censu card demanded her age at
the point of a £5O fine. Unappropriated blessings
in N.S.W. retract any better feelings they ever
had for Commonwealth Statistics Knibbs. Jiu-
jitsu has lately been recommended by British
Australasian to Australian girls ; they are cordi-
ally invited, when in London fog circles, to visit
Mrs. Edith Garrud’s jiu-jitsu school. They will.
Next time census collectors try to worm their
way into secrets, hitherto only known to Angel-
ina s hair-pads, they will be in peril of falling out
over hard front steps. Still, the next infuriating
ln ,« lon 18 a l° n £ wa y off sit won’t happen un-
til 1921.
Amaryllis, who is cruelly accused of having
toyed with 40 summers, fled from her boarding-
house on Sunday morning. She left a note pinned
to her powder-puff, to say she had not committed
suicide in consequence of the census, but intended
to while away 24 hours as a long-distance railway
traveller. Hurried word now comes that Ama-
ryllis was asked by a guard, in the presence of
four male adults and two female foes, to tell her
exact age. She disappeared. Her anxious friends
will be grateful if the railway authorities would
carefully inspect any window curtains or uphol-
stered seats. They fear that Amaryllis has con-
cealed her age for ever in a soap dish or pillow
case. Railway fettlers are advised to keep a
sharp look-out for the mangled remains of 40
years. No flowers.
Somebody has said: “ There are only two
stories ip the world. One concerns two women
and one man ; the other is about one woman and
two men.” Frances Hodgson Burnett has chosen
the latter for her new play, “The Dawn of a To-
morrow.” She divides the “local color” with
rather a heavy hand into London East and
London West. At the one matinee trying-on
show of this well-meaning stranger. Miss Irby
Marshall, as Glad, was torn to shreds by a part
that nothing but the stage-craft of a Duse or a
Bernhardt could lift from the level of a Religious
Tract Society’s wet-Sunday literature.
Though “ language ” is frequent in Apple Blos-
som Court slum area, “The Dawn of a To-
morrow ” is paved with good intentions. They
are treated in the American one-star part manner,
and lead to a Better World. “East Lynne’s”
Little Willie, going up to Heaven with
colored lights and a wet handkerchief,
only works half-time compared with the corres-
ponding person in the “Dawn,” whose damp
cloud and harp atmosphere is punctured by a
wandering baronet with a revolver in one pocket
and a ham sandwich and large collection of sove-
reigns in the other.
Frances Hodgson Burnett takes a really admir-
able young woman in “Rag and Bone” circles
for her heroine in this play, which has four dull
acts and three good situations. She is described
as “plain,” which is a help to any young person
who hopes to have a shred of reputation left.
“ Glad,” having talked for three successive acts,
with brief adjournments for refreshments, and a
two-minutes interlude in which she strokes the
hero’s back hair, admits (in the fourth act) that
she is “done.” The audience at the Royal on
Friday afternoon believed her.
Miss Mabel Trevor has the emotions of Marga-
ret Anglin, though she lacks the avoirdupois.
A beneficent Providence designed her tall,
slender figure to fit the present fashion in
eelskin skirts. Miss Trevor, as Margaret Rolfe
in “The Woman in the Case,” first glided into
the affections of the Criterion gallery on Saturday
night in a sinuous gown of gleaming ivory satin.
The “ Criterion ” captured a Duchess (Adeline
of Bedford) for its first-night performance of
“The Woman in the Case.” Governor-General
and Lady Dudley were responsible for this flight
into the higher walks of the Dukeries.
“My first remarkon the stage—in a one-line
part—was ‘I begyour pardon,”’ says Miss Trevor
over the tea cups. “Seems only yesterday.
When did I first get the usual feminine hunger
for footlights ? Strange to say, I never thought
about the stage or wanted to go on, like most
girls. Then quite suddenly I felt tired of
doing nothing, and walked in to Mr. George
Alexander’s office. ‘ Why do you want to go on
the stage?’ was his first question. ‘Oh, I’m
just tired of doing nothing. I don’t want to act,
and I’ve never played in amateur theatricals in
my life.’ ‘ That’s a blessing, anyhow,’ said he.
‘ You’ll be tired of it in a week.’ He let me walk
on in a comedy called ‘ The Wilderness.’” Miss
Trevor unloaded her one line to her manager’s
satisfaction. He took her on tour.
Miss Trevor belongs to the feminine type that
uses up every fraction of its vitality at high
pressure. She seems to be bright enough to throw
out sparks. Her magnetic current is in good
working order. Yet a mild fit of “ the blues”—a
highly popular phase of girl-imagination—drove
her to the footlights. “ It’s more than a week,”
says Miss Trevor in cheerful retrospect; “but
I’m not tired of the stage yet.”
“On the eve of his departure for Europe ” is
worrying the personal column of every Common-
wealth chronicle at the present moment. This is
an integral part of the ascent of Australian woman
into diamond tiaras, and the descent of man into
the “extras” of London Court dressmakers.
Knight Albert and Dame Gould are said to be
contemplating an invasion of England. The great
June drapery display is given as the first cause.
The Jim Allisons—she was a Miss Burdekin—
have taken the Philip Mortons’ house in Roslyn-
avenue. The Morton family leaves for England
after the races.
Mrs. Dalton, of Wheatleigh, North Sydney-
one of the well-known Orange family—will leave
Sydney by the St. Albans next week. Her ob-
jective is the land of the early-rising Jap. A
niece, Miss Nugent, will be one of the Dalton
cherry-blossom party.
The Sydney winter season is likely to have
Cattle-man Kidman’s daughters amongst those
present at its most alluring festivities. One Miss
Kidman will be eventually annexed by Adelaide.
Mr. Reid, of the Malcolm Reid merchant family,
is to be the bridegroom.
The Owen-Cox dinner last week was up to its
usual popular standard. The much-travelled Mr.
Cox departs for Europe in a few days. He will
take with him an extensive knowledge of the
world’s largest cities, and his only chick, Miss
Doris Cox.
The morning post brings a determined rumor
with an orange-blossom complexion. It asserts
that pretty Maie (Peach) Sydney, who wore her
own fair hair, sandal shoes and floral gown effects
in “ The Arcadians,” has married Captain Rey-
nolds. The bridegroom’s regiment is stationed
somewhere in India’s bomb resorts, and plays polo
in the best society. The lady’s sweet little pipe
will be an acquisition to Anglo-Indian private
theatricals.
Mr. and Mrs. Dalglish Bellasis arrived on the
Orvieto. The lady was a Miss de Lauret of
Goulburn. A sister is Sydney’s good-looking
Mrs. Ted Simpson, now in England. The
Bellasis family has been identified with Catholicism
in England since the days when the priest’s sleep-
ing apartment was, as a measure of ordinary pre-
caution, beneath a ringed paving-stone in the
family coal-hole. Some years ago the London
Oratory was in the same unfinished and un-
sightly condition that St. Mary’s, Sydney,
is in to-day. The Bellasis family came for-
ward with a donation which enabled the big
church to be completed out of hand. Tim pre-
sent visitors will stay at Pomeroy, the station be-
longing to Mr. Alec Dalglish, Mrs. Bellasis’s
eldest son.
Mrs. Willie Manning, a sister of Dr. Jack
Osborne, went to Melbourne for the Osborne-
Atherton wedding, which will cover Toorak with
a haze of bugle trimmings and diamond pendants
on April 5. Mrs. Peck, another Osborne sister —
formerly from the home nest, Hopewood, Bowral,
and latterly from the Straits Settlement—is going
to take the Toorak wedding party as an incident
in the Sydney Easter ball-and-bridge festivities.
A voice from Glen Innes sends the following
tale of two women and one policeman : When
Miss Brace, the English agricultural arrival,
bought a farm in that district, no one in the local
chaff business took her seriously till she showed a
knowledge of horns and hoofs that ran away from
adverse criticism. With her friend. Miss Alcock,
she recently tried to assuage official thirst for
information re shire rates by describing their com-
bined occupation as “Farmer.” Albert Edward,
the house cat, who was using the official visit as
an excuse for washing his whiskers in the milk-
jug, remained calm during a discussion in which
Shire Rates insisted on “female ” being prefixed
to “farmer.” Later on, the owner of Yarraford
farm met the rate-paper face to face. It
accused her of the mysterious occupation “ dom
dut.” Miss Brace searched an encyclopaedia, a
fowlhouse, a Latin dictionary and a cow-bail,
for the key to this closed door. Before smiting
the shire clerk with her agricultural certificate,
the accused demanded an explanation. She got
it. “ Ladies always appear in shire rate-papers
as domestic duties—otherwise ‘dom dut.’” The
shire council’s best bulldog will attend to any
future attempt to introduce “ female farmer ” into
a highly-respectable tax-paper.
Silkworm culture has been nursed into good
results by a little band of women in Brisbane. In
spite of solid helpings of that upstanding joint
known as “cold shoulder,” they went on showing
so many mulberry-leaf reasons for their de-
termination to bring up large families of
high-class ■ worms, that the Government
is now said to extend a friendly finger
to home-grown silk. An expert was brought
from Italy to teach the industry, and
a local worm factory is now gathering itself
together. Sydney, somewhere in the latter end
of this month, is going to wriggle with a branch
of the Brisbane silkeries. The Corticelli people
in Canada are chiefly responsible for this boom in
the silk-worm family. A friend, who never tells a
cold-blooded, unnecessary lie, says that the
Canadian manufacturers have written out to con-
gratulate the Queensland silk-worms on having
found the climate that will make them beat all
other egg-laying competitions.
“ All Nations Fair ” in the Town Hall will be
vigorously extracting the nimble shilling from
pocketless woman when this reaches you. A tidal
wave of sympathy has recently hurled itself against
the old iniquity of housing nurses-in-training in
herring-tins, or noisy wooden match-boxes. The
passing of Mrs. Gamp was good for the patient,
but bad for the nurse. Sairey would have re-
sented, with the business end of her umbrella,
conditions under which the hospital nurse of 20
years ago did her highly-trained work. Gamp
slept on duty in the patient’s best arm-chair. She
took his pillows and drank his medical comforts.
Her immediate successor could sleep neither on
nor off duty. She was badly fed and atrociously
housed. Every big Australian hospital has made
an upward effort in this matter. “All Nations
Fair” ought to put Prince Alfred Hospital in a
good financial way to continue the upward move-
ment and house its nursing staff in comfort.
Architect Hardy Wilson, who brought from
England the George Lambert picture show, is a
keen admirer of things and persons artistic. His
present shrine is a flat near the tram-scratched
heights of Darlipghurst. The Hardy-Wilson
drawing-room is a survival of the fittest in fur-
niture. It comes between the New Art decora-
tive scheme, which runs riot in hand-beaten
brasswork and spindle-legged sofas, and the
severely solid comfort of the Tudor period. It is
—in a quiet fashion—a minor museum of art trea-
sures. Antiquities in fans, old pieces of rare
china, quaint draperies and good pictures make this
room an unsafe place for any collector of curios.
It will drive to despair every visitor whose private
meditations are surrounded in the home circle by
plush chairs, white antimacassars and woolwork
scenery.
Horatius is reported to have kept the bridge ip
the Lays of Ancient Rome. Vaucluse aldermen
—with the notable exceptions of Mayor Johnson
and Alderman Read—wished to keep the old
wooden shanty known as the Camera Obscura.
They refused to lend it to the military authori-
ties, who wanted it for “wireless” purposes.
Public opinion has jumped on the objection,
and Mayor Johnson—descendant of Johnson,
sole survivor of the Dunbar wreck—is reported,
in consequence, to wear a smile of patriotic
architecture. The Obscura is toiling up the hill
to the military reserve. It will get into training,
as a “wireless” station, for Easter-camp use,
before the Yaucluse Council has time to shriek
for help.
It has been mentioned “by the way ” that Mr.
Lauchlan Mackinnon (of Melb. Argus) is a
brother of the Duchess of Somerset. News of this
kind ought not to escape into English papers with
a merely middle-class preface. “ By the way ” is
good enough to introduce a census card to a rabid
fox-terrier. It is not meet to link it up with the
Somerset strawberry patch. As a matter of cold
fact, the Duchess was a Mackinnon ; but her
father’s name was Charles, whereas Lauchlan’s
male parent owned the initials A.K. The London
Evening Standard can't make up its linotype as
to whether Lauchlan or Francis Mackinnon is en-
titled to hail himself chieftain of the clan Mac-
kinnon. All these speculations are apropos the
fact that the Lauchlan Mackinnons are on the
motor for the small, bare Isle of Skye, which the
family left 60 years ago for Australia and afflu-
ence.
Mr. E. W. MaCkay, of Lismore, who generally
brings something with a bush pedigree to this
city, is staying at the Royal Hotel. He is not
attended by an aboriginal corroboree, as in the
past. A museum of Australian birds, stuffed, is
his chief excuse for carrying excess luggage on a
hard-worked permanent way. This fine collec-
tion of feathers and dead songs was gathered
together by a A. P. Goodwin, F.R.G.S., of
Byron Bay. It includes, amongst those
reluctantly present, the shy, snow-white
crane from the Brunswick River. This
beautiful creature eluded the bullet of fate for
six months, and finally fell before the unerring
aim of the late Mr. Jack Manchee. Black velvet
feathers, shot with iridescent green, belong to
the bush-whacking rifle bird ; the gorgeous red
and emerald dress-coat of the king parrot; dragoon
birds from northern scrub country ; the funeral-
reform cockatoo, who is out of mourning in his
scarlet tail; lyrebird and bronze cuckoo, blue jay
and whistling eagle, friarbird and brush turkey—
all are having a dull time under circumstanc< s
and glass eases over which they have no control.
A friend in London writes that Felix Ogilvie.
who so despicably duped the unfortunate Ella
Caspers into a bigamous marriage, turns out to
have been born in Germany of Scotch and Irish
parents. Journeying to England, he enlisted in
the Royal Artillery and transferred to the Black
Watch. From that regiment he deserted
and joined a Scottish regiment, but was
sent back to the Black Watch as a
deserter. In order to get clear of the
ranks, however, he misconducted himself
in such a way as to be dismissed with ignominy.
There is no doubt that Ogilvie, or Bradley, was
an accomplished adventurer; he was a man of
education, with a dress and demeanor that gave
him the appearance of a person of refinement and
culture. He spoke German, English, French,
Spanish and Italian fluently, and Justice Dar-
ling, in passing sentence of 10 years’ imprison-
ment, characterised the prisoner’s statement
as a manifesto of which he had not read the
like except in the romances of Dumas. Miss
Caspers, who is suffering intensely, has the
sympathy of all the Australian “colony” in
London. She has decided to remain in the big
city and continue her studies as far as practicable
To this end she will give a recital during May,
when the strong support of the “colony” is
assured.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.
Lud Mayor Davey thinks there are onlj
1000 rats in Melbourne. Apparently he as o»d,\
counted those the city councillors have got.


f/M
i
S-'.
>l7
a®
HM*
? •- t » •
i
r*as
I) : / mM\
|f I|p h;:||i j
i£«s
£-?'#*■ s is lan t
ill latiti
%S#C
m
mmi
V"--[>7'‘'’v ( V> 3
>'■■>. ISr
(
g>
<ar
V,
ifi*
KSSmSB!I®B
«jssB
v:
I§*P
m
X
Sfifi
§SS&
riC? 1^
s»«
<ft*w£
IQ 'Alf /l'.
a>?t
gs** 5
fe&
\V
IT
&**■>«
s*
v>
*******>* tcwf^
? l* m
;?X- «k
WiSSST.'
/•V?
Hfl|
as
«S«
-.' -•/•««’ .C 1 •„'!/■ '' vV «*• *V.-WT»•
£ftK£g
i
fils
■
&GSX#&
i>s'7
$5
si
m.
»s*.
ft?
K -•
iti
»=
in
vxv
j? 1?:.
js>x
2X4
*-f r:X'
-• .yrt c
ri§'<
CM.
&AX*
y. a- ;
if-X
I!
-
■%
m
m
m
M-
mm
sjjvwj^
m?
s*s
I
rjgpg^
Sfe
•Iv.
lid
(■ —r
i?
4
? VS* > . *■*
;'Xi.-y-, .’/X • ;
ife-
jo<i
- #S'ii
_>-:- •'*
; v.
®c
n-f-r. 1 .
«fSW
d : -;.
»
SSfes
• f
i - :
ti»sV
A-S
ij; r >;:j4^s'i’‘j- > -'-’-;"'“"i
m
•••:
m
i
m
m
5«!
v:; .
il6
IS
•XnV
P£
:;;a:x
fikd a
\'r'X :
figifti .x
«tva;v'.
fit
Xi
;'. r Xv-
HKIV
S;r£feSfS
p£i
&&
wciii i~2 »• WK-Sj. >.
■ >. '.:
mm
»s«
L
SSS
: ?->B
-
COBRA, &/je Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, Uhe Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With the cat
And dog for crew,
’Neath the tree-fern’
Nodding frond
Floats upon
The Polish Pond.
Chunder thinks
It’s very fine
Just to fish with
Rod and line -
While the cat
Keeps a look out
For a nice, big,
Juicy trout.


A GENUINE HAIRGROWER.
We have received the following recipe from a
correspondent who has found it to be of great
value. Our correspondent says that this mixture
is a hair tonic which, if rubbed briskly into the
scalp night and morning with the finger tips, will
not fail to promote the growth of hair, to remedy
baldness, to restore grey hair to its natural color,
and to destroy dandruff.
Take £ dram of Menthol Crystals, and put them
into a bottle containing 3oz. of Bay Rum, and see
that they are entirely dissolved, then add loz. of
Lavonade Comppsee, and if desired one teaspoon-
ful of To-Kalon perfume. Shake well and let it
stand for half an hour when it will be ready for use.
Other readers will doubtless be glad to try this
remedy which our correspondent has sent. We
understand that the ingredients may be obtained
from any chemist.
CAUTION.—As this is doubtless a remarkable
hair grower , it should be applied only where hair is
desired*
ZAUms'
CONDUCTORS
PLEASE
WRITE
roe our
BLUE
LIST.
Selections, Intermezzos
FOR ALL KINDS OF ORCHESTRAS AND BANDS.
we stock
ALL
INSTRUMENTS
AND
SUNDRY
COOK.
MELBOURNE •
E7b Collins SirecL
6CNDICO >
«2 Mltchctl Street.
ADELAIDE. >
53 Rundle Street.
\\o, K. I
•. I
V,
nc
DUNLOP
-KELLY
*TYRES
are Solid Rubber Tyres,
that do not come off.
Being made of best Para
Rubber, they run for
years, ensuring you
comfortable driving
and freedom from
Coachbuilder’s Repairs.
Fitted from per pair.
Let us forward you our
Illustrated Price List.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne,Sydney.
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and Christchurch.
m
mm
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE
Gives Years of Hard
Service.
Does Not Kink or
Burst.
Specify “DUNLOP" Brand
if You Want the Best.
Obtainable all Leading Stores.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbonree, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Chnitcharsh. N.Z.
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling's.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 3, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Lady Honor Ward, the gentle-looking eldest
daughter of Governor Dudley, who some time ago
departed Fog ward under the wing of a governess,
made an impressive debut in London, according
to all accounts. Grandmamma Georgina chaper-
oned the maid, and all the brilliant younger
generation of Wards (uncles and aunts) backed
her up. After a perusal of the list of guests, I
am sure that dukes must have been at least three
a penny—which is cheaper than bananas nowa-
days. Lady Wolverhampton gave the dinner and
ball, and the bud motored up from Pembroke
Lodge for the event with the DowageV Countess.
She wore white muslin—unadorned ; and report
says she looked like a copy of her mother.
Lady Morvyth, the G.-G.’s next daughter, who is
just now galloping round the country and putting
her horse at the Ercildoune fences, is more like
Dowager Georgina, and promises to be a brilliant
beauty some day. She is “Dick” in everyday
life, and is a thorough little sportswoman. She
rides anything alarmed guardians will let her
approach, and never goes through a gate. Over
it—with the dogs at her horse’s heels—is her
method. She used to ride demurely enough along
St. Kilda-road and the Avenue in the mornings ;
but when safely away from horrified governesses
and alarmed grooms she goes across country. Her
riding rig in town included riding boots that were
the envy of every Melbourne horsewoman. They
were of soft tan, and as high as fishermen’s
waders. A brief skirt, well-fitting brown tunic
coat, and a brown felt hat planted on the back of
her curly, brown hair completed her turn-out.
Governor-elect Fuller is a cousin of Better-not-
Wallington, who knew the shoals and deeps of
local society, and through them
as a good pilot takes a liner into a dangerous port.
What an excellent recommendation it is for the
post! If the Wallington wisdom is a family
trait, the new Governor will have a smooth time
officially, and socially he will be snugly wrapped
in a swandown robe of tact.
The Victorian Artists’ Society assembled on
Wednesday, the 29th, to welcome Longstaff on
his return to Australia. When the painter
reached these shores, he bolted straight off to the
Goulburn Valley to see his mother and father,
who live in a delightful, rambling, old-fashioned
house in Shepparton. Consequently the artists
had to lie in wait for him. When he had been
caught, Rita Hope, with gold beads in her hair,
was the star of the musical programme that was
played and sung to him. The crowd of welcotners
could not all, however, squeeze into the large
music room. They filled the upper rooms and
the picturesque corridors, and littered even the
branching stairway ; and some of them danced to
the music of a commandeered piano.
All the well-known artists were on hand, in-
cluding Withers, Mather, Ford Patterson, and
the travelled Ambrose Patterson, who has been
picking up sea glimpses round Beaumaris since
his return. Blarnire Young towered above the
happy crowd. Cousin Will Longstaff and his
wife smiled a welcome to all; and Mrs. Muntz-
Adams, who also claims relationship, beamed
at the shoal of guests. Artist Mather made the
usual speech at the- lion, who, like most lions,
looked uncomfortable. He murmured several
good anecdotes ; but the decorations mostly ab-
sorbed them and left the eager listeners hungry.
Longstaff is a fine storyteller in a studio or over
a dinner table ; but he seemed shy and nervous on
t,he platform. His voice rang out enthusiastically,
however, when he spoke about the possibilities of
Australia for artists. “Color,” “line,” “light
and shade” —he catalogued them and ejaculated,
“ Extraordinary ! ”
Mrs. Muntz Adams, the clever portrait painter
who made quite a masterpiece of her portrait of
Duncan Gillies, is back in Melbourne. She has
been travelling for some time with her sister,
Miss Edith Muntz, a University girl who lost her
health through over-study. The artist is opening
her studio again after Easter.
Secretary Victor Hood, with his fishing-rod
over his shoulder, has come back from his Maori-
land holiday a much-refreshed man. He caught
enough brown and rainbow trout to stock a fish-
shop. Unfortunately, it isn’t reckoned quite the
thing in vice-regal circles to run a fish-stall; and
if a gentleman, help arrived at some function with
scales on his evening clothes, something would be
certain to break.
Two garden parties are happening at the Mal-
vern Government House this week. The second
is apparently sacred to Art. Longstaff will be
present, and lots of people in the Art world have
accepted invitations to wander about the beauti-
ful terraces and talk to one another.
The Free Kindergartens are growing and multi-
plying. Two years ago there were only three in
Melbourne ; now there are ten, with three nur-
series on the kindergarten principle. A de-
monstration of the work was given in the
Town Hall on Wednesday, and Alfred Deakin
made a soft, purring speech about it. Mrs.
Deakin, who works hard extending the
scheme, sat on the platform and listened
approvingly. With her were Mrs. Supervisor
Champlin, Doctor Edith Barrett, and Mrs.
Davev. Education Tate and Treasurer Watt,
were present, and Gaud Mayor Davey set the
work-ball rolling.
After the business proceedings, Miss Semmens,
of the Burnley Kindergarten, marshalled 80 of
her babies for show. The little ones invaded the
platform, and went through a “morning” pro-
gramme, which was instructive to the admiring
grown-ups, and just a play to the small demon-
strators. Samples of the youngsters’ work were
hung round the walls—things of the kind that
tend to make fond parents rave.
The story of “Goodrest ’’ has arrived at a chap-
ter which, it is hoped, will be long and peaceful.
Goodrest is the tall, stuccoed mansion in Toorak-
road standing next to the stately domicile of the
Fred Paynes, and fronted by a festive garden
with a fountain in the middle of it. Old Mr. W.
P. Buckhurst —who wasn't chemist Buckhurst, of
the Mutual Store, but his uncle—left the fine resi-
dential property (as the auctioneers would call it)
to his second wife for the term of her natural
life. The young widow was to have the
ownership of it; but after her death it
was to go to the Melbourne Hospital,
and be used as a home for convalescent patients
or a rest-cure establishment for tired nurses, or
what not. The widow’s hold of the property was
expected to be long, seeing that she was 40 or 50
years younger than her late husband. But one
never knows one’s luck. The lady married again,
and a few months later she followed her first hus-
band to the bourn that Hamlet speajts of, where
travellers stop for good. Then the Melbourne
Hospital committee found itself possessed of a
white-elephant legacy. It couldn’t devote
Goodrest to the purpose willed by the testator, nor
could it convert the place into cash—certainly
not without the permission of the Buckhurst
trustees. So it took the case to court in a friendly
way, and an accommodating Judge decided that
the Hospital could sell the house and grounds if it
agreed to share the proceeds with old Mr. Buck-
hurst’s heirs and assigns. The other day the
Argus announced the sale to a “private pur-
chaser.” It seems that the new lady of the house
will be Mrs. Charles Atkins, who knows every
nook and cranny of it. Charles Atkins married a
daughter of W. P. Buckhurst; and just 25 years
ago he took her away from the old home to which
he escorts her back this week. Twenty of those
vanished years don’t count as far as the happy
matron’s appearance is concerned ; all the same,
a numerous family has been growing up, and
everything in the garden’s lovely.
The Army and Bar, who were dying to bowl
and bat at one another on their old-time school
pitch, were defeated with great slaughter and
heavy damages by the weather. Three times was
the date of battle fixed, and as many times post-
poned. The teams rushed the matter, however,
on a recent Saturday on the ground of the Church
of England Grammar School, and flocks of ad-
miring womenfolk fluttered out to pat their kid-
gloved applause and drink tea. Donald Mac-
kinnon flung himself about like a grey-haired boy;
Guy Madden and lawyer Billy Williams were
conspicuous bowlers; while the Army was best
represented by Major-General Hoad and the tall
and stately Colonel Stanley.
Of the approaching sassiety weddings, the
Atherton-Osborne ceremonial will have the
prettiest bunch of bridesmaids. Sisters Molly
and Muriel Atherton are acknowledged beauties.
Gwladys Chirnside, just back from a Maoriland
romp, is one of the smartest of Melbourne’s
woolly-wealthy girls. Gladys (without the
“ w”) Box has her full share of good looks ; and
Nana O’Hara is a show-girl when it comes to pro-
gramme selling at amatuah charitable shows.
Medico Stawell is the proud father of a brand-
new infant. The baby is lucky in possessing a
pair of knowledgable parents. Stawell is a
noted specialist in children’s illnesses ; and Mrs.
Stawell, previous to her marriage, held a responsi-
ble nursing post. Stawell was supposed to be a
confirmed and unconvertible bachelor. He and
three other medical men made solemn vows of celi-
bacy. Davenport was one ; but he fell many years
ago. The name of the second I disremember.
Stawell, the third, took a wife after many moons.
The fourth remains still staunch to bachelordom.
He is handsome, white-haired Hamilton Russell,
art lover and haunter of musical high-planes.
Manderson, of Melbourne Age, and Jack Mac-
donald, of Melbourne Argus, were sent off by the
Melbourne Press Club lately. They are among
those whose eyes shall see the King in his beauty
at the Coronation. Jack Davidson sat in the
chair and flattered them; and Leipsig, of the
Opera House, toyed with cards, etc. “Mandy”
and “Mac” expressed much emotion, and threat-
ened to come back if funds ran out.
Mrs. Fred “Dewar” Thiel gave a jolly solo-
whist party at the Grand, last week, to farewell
her sister-in-law, Mrs. Percy Thiel, who is off on
a long world-wander. The whole of the big draw-
ing-room was commandeered for the occasion, and
the guests played in intense silence. At afternoon
tea-time, the two Thiel husbands came along with
20 or so other men. It was quite a turning of the
card tables. Usually, it is the women who hurry
in just as the kettle is boiling. On the arrival of
the males, talk and farewell speeches stopped the
play. Mrs. Percy Thiel wore some wonderful blue-
feathered poultry in her black hat, and had a few
discreet touches of Coronation-blue in her black
dress. The hostess gowned herself quietly in
mouse color, and wore flame-color wings in her
mouse-colored hat.
Clever Rita Hope gave a well-attended piano
recital in the Athenaeum last week. Marshall
Hall, in an inconspicuous seat behind the ranks of
Fashion, applauded loudly and often. Her biggest
item was Beethoven’s Sonata in D minor. Alter
a rest, Liszt, Schumann, Chopin, Leschetizky
and Greig were collected in an ambitious pro-
gramme. Rita has such talent, and is blessed with
a magnificent physique and the strong Carreno
type of arm. Tralford Foster, tenor, contributed
a whole music-roll of songs. An air from Rossini’s
“II Barbiere ” proved not so charming as the usual
tenor talk of loves, doves, trees, stars and deserts.
Miss Baskerville, with some assistance from
Mr. J. Brennan, gave acircleof Austral Salonites
a delightful hour or so on Monday afternoon. The
time was spent in a reading on the art of sculpture.
Miss Baskerville supplied the remarks, and Mr.
Brennan tired them off for her at the audience,
which had some of the clever woman’s best work
to look at whilst listening. Her “Wings of
Motherhood ” was thought much of by the Felton
Bequest people; but, unfortunately, it is in
plaster, and the Gallery must have either marble
or bronze. Miss Baskerville has visions of repro-
ducing the work in marble, and then she’ll wait
eagerly to see what happens.
Miss Grey and Miss Steele, a devoted pair of
Melbourne girl-chums who lived, breathed and
dressed in duet, have been separated at last by
the marriage of the Steele partner to Mr. Edouard
Jacot. The bride, who is only 18, writes a Swiss
address on the corner of her visiting card. The
couple are now honeymooning at a city tavern,
but will journey later on to the Italian lakes.
Alf Tracey, the good-looking naval officah, is
off to Fogland with his bride. He annexed the
second of the Robertson girls, who carries two
handsome figures—one in her clothes and the
other in her bank-book.
The Tracey bridegroom’s memory must have
been stirred by the recent loss of the yacht Mavis
and her crew of four, in one of our sudden gales.
About 16 years ago, just such a gale happened
during a Mornington-St. Kilda yacht race, with
the result that 23 boats were driven ashore.
Yachtsman Jack Scott was captaining an open
24-footer. Tracey was one of the crew; the
others were Charlie “ Allan’s ” Tait and young
Frazer. They struggled home at last, with nothing
but a jib, the rest of the sails having been torn to
ribbons. For his seamanlike work on that
occasion Tracey was voted a “brick ” of the most
buoyant sort. Todd, the unlucky man who had
to run down the pier to catch the lost yacht as it
sailed away from St. Kilda, had been chief clerk
in Allan’s for many years, and the tragedy made
Charlie Tait reminiscent. The battle between the
Mavis and the storm must have been much the
same ; only, in the case of long ago, the boat beat
the storm.
Mrs. Harcourt Beattie has been indulging in a
new and bothersome form of “ itis,” which kept
her in bed with one leg in plaster of Paris for a
fortnight. Then she was well enough to be motored
out to the Ballenger home by the daughters of the
house. She will return to the city hotel in time
to meet her actor-husband.
The R. S. Smythes entertained Winifred
Gullett-Etherington (daughter of Henry Gullett,
of Sydney Daily Telegraph proprietary), on her
way through to Colombo with her tea-planter
bridegroom. Amongst the guests was South
Australian barrister Paris Nesbitt, who is, in his
large way, the handsomest man in Australia.
The late James Smith’s house at Hawthorn is
to be opened as a home for inebriates. James
Smith was an ardent believer in spooks; these
later inhabitants must have believed in ardent
spirits.
Manager E. J. Tait had not long got back to
Her Majesty’s after his attack of appendicitis,
when his wife went down with severe nerve-
strain. Dr. O’Hara now has her in a hospital,
and he and Dr. Mackeddie have made her practi-
cally a prisoner. It is hard luck for E.J., com-
ing on top of his own long bout of sickness.
In the most elevated frocking circles, the much-
discussed garment is the Pasha skirt—not the
Harem. Pasha is the more acceptable term;
Harem is too aggressively Oriental. The pathetic
outcry of the infrequent exiled Turk in Australia
against the local versions of his pirated pants
is warranted. The shape varies in the most
bewildering way, according to the whim of
the wearer or her dressmaker. The label
“ Esquimaux” would fit some of them better than
“Harem.” With others, “Dutch” would fill
the bill; a back view of the bags, when worn
with the straight jacket, calls up memories of the
“ Hook of Holland ” men.
When half a dozen women who have flown (and
there are at least that number here now) chance to
meet in a teashop or elsewhere, it is well nigh im-
possible to get the talk back to earth. But even in
the air most of the talk is of dress. The skirt is
the chief difficulty. One adventurer in the blue
wore the narrowest tube obtainable, and clamped
it down with a close-fitting sweater. But even
that wasn’t a success ; the air-currents made sport
of it. Miss Dutrieu, a Parisian, and one of
the most daring of women fliers, has, according to
the illustrations, a weird dress composed by her-
self. The nether garments are very loose bags
until they reach well below the knee; then they
clamp in tightly like harems. Her helmet is all-
in-one with the tunic ; and that gets over another
difficulty of the female fliers.
Louise L. L. Smith is about again after her
accident. She nearly lost the sight of her very
blue eyes by the explosion of a gas stove. As it
was, she lost the skin of her face, her eyebrows
and eyelashes and much front hair. Dr. O’Hara
shut her up in his hospital for a time, and made a
complete cure. The patient has come out, as from
a beauty cure, with a new skin, sweet and fair as
a baby’s, and with the eyebrows just pencilling
back into life.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Darby-Crozier wedding ceremony was effective but
quiet. None but relatives were asked. The bride and
her attendants wore short skirts. The Crozier girls are
keen horsewomen, and are to be found in the saddling
paddock on most race days. Moreover, they have high
hopes of the mare that races in their name. Bridegroom
Darby, when not racing, mends our adhi ng teeth.
Mr. Owen Smyth is back from the place we still call
“ the East.” He left his daughter behind, but, in ex-
change, acquired some new views of the yellow man.
His regard for the average Jap is now low. The returned
traveller splits his time between quail-shooting and pre-
siding over the make and destiny of public buildings.
Our young men are doing well. Elton Mayo (brother
of one of our women doctors) has secured a good appoint-
ment in Queensland, after a meteoric University course
here ; while Ronald Angus and M. G. Murray are carrying
off athletic honors for their rival ’Varsities in England.
All three are Adelaide “old blues,” hailing from St.
Peter’s College.
From an Adelaide daily : “ Lady wishes housekeeping,
one gentleman; clean, careful, methodical. Moral.
.” Apparently the paragon has not
been rushed, for the advt. has appeared more than once.
The servant problem is no less acute, and distracted
housewives are seeking to fill the blanks by “lady”
nurses, etc. One superior being demanded £2 a week
and many privileges, which apparently out-numbered her
qualifications. Anyhow, it was refused, and she has
shaken the dust (and there’s plenty) of Adelaide from
her feet.
Government House is understaffed no longer. Mr.
Row, R.N., arrived the other day to fill the niche vacated
by Mr. Baillie Hamilton last year. All last summer
Captain Fletcher was A.D.C. and private sec. in one.
The Church is in a ferment again. Bishop Thomas hag
imported Bishop Wilson from Melanesia (you remem-
ber, he was an old Cambridge cricket “ blue,” and got
wrecked in the China), and intends installing him as
archdeacon or something. Howls of indignation are
issuing from many local divines. Which suggests that
even clerics possess ambitions—and tempers.
On Thursday the “ Jimmy” Gosses departed for W.A.,
which is to be their home in future. “ Jimmy ” Gosse
was well known as an oarsman and footballer till a year
or so ago, when he appropriated a Barr Smith bride and
settled down to more domestic things. The same boat
bore off the Peter Woods, who are to swell the Coronation
crowd, and “Gus” Clarke, who owns some acres near
Angaston.
If Mayor Cohen’s banquet on Saturday night was any
index to his popularity, his energetic worship must have
a heap of friends. It was a gorgeous show, and the nice
things said were even nicer than usual. He carries with
him Adelaide’s good wishes and a commission to make
preliminary arrangements for an Edward memorial.
During their stay in the South-East their Exes, are to
be part of the while guests of the Riddochs. Their place
is one of the show stations of the district, and has an en-
viable reputation for hospitality and picturesquenesg.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


Mutual Life 8 Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
7
ON
STRENGTH
“The M.L.C.“The Co-operative Life Office,”
Witb wbicb is in-
M U- .C.-. -,,V ;
corporated tbe
business of
• • •
Citizens* Life Assurance Company, Ltd. ;
Mutual Life Association of Australasia ;
and The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.
Assets Exceed - - - - - £7,200,000
Annual Income Exceeds - - £1,200,000
Over 335,000 Policies in force, assuring' nearly £27,000,000
ASSETS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1910.
The Company has no foreclosures, nor have any of its Mortgages fallen into possession.
LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE CO-OPERATIVE PLAN.
Eighty per cent, of the profits of the Ordinary Branch belong to the participating Policy-holders of that Branch, and the remaining
twenty per cent, to the Shareholders, who contract to manage the business of the Branch at a rate of expense not exceeding
fifteen per cent, of the income thereof.
The “M.L.C.” has the ...
STRONGEST FINANCIAL POSITION,
LOWEST EXPENSE RATE, and
BEST BONUS PROSPECTS in Australasia,
And gives its Policy-holders in all rWini+F* fontrart
branches of its business a LfCTiniLc LOnlraCl.
The following are Specimens of Bonuses in respect of the one year 1910 per £lOO of Policy issued by the “M.L.C.”
WHOLE OF LIFE.
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCE Payable at Age 60.
*A Policy is considered five years in force when the premium or the first instalment thereof for the fifth year has fallen due, and so on for other durations.


FOR QUALITY!
FOR VALUE!
FOR EXCLUSIVENESS!
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Open-face Keyless
WATCH, Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted
Balances. 30/.
Guaranteed 1 Year’s Free,Repair.
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bnr Pearl-set Si’ll AY BROOCH,
1 7/0.
A. SAUNuERS.
18ct Gold,
Diamonds and
Emerald Cluster
RING,
£7/10/.
jggjflwPgßW
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sap-
phi ros.
£ S/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
THOUSANDS OF EXQUISITE NEW DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY.
LET US POST YOU OUR 100-PAGE FREE CATALOG.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 3
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT, set Fine
Pearls and
Amethyst,
.‘{O'-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Fancy Cross,
Nicely Chased, TO/G-
A. SALOK RS.
Dec Gold,
Set Pearls,
Garnet, or
Peridot, 12/6*
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT AND
NECKLACE, Set Pearls and
Amethysts, £4-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PENDANT,
set Garnets or
Amethyst and
Pearls, Oval or
Heart shaped
Stone, 8/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold,
Pure Diamond
PIN, 22/(>.
A. SAUNDERS.
lSet Gold,
Diamonds and
Ruby or Sapphires,
£ 10
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Set Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 17/0-
£4/10/.,
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Half-
Hunting K-yless WATCH, Full Jewelled, Extra
Heavy, £4/10/-
Guarani 3 Years’ Free Repairs.
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, 2 o/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Band
RING, Opal, Red,
or Blue Stones,
17/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
Oval Cluster
RING,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Fine Pure White
Double-cut Diamonds, £ 10.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Set Green Tourma-
lines or Rubies,
2i/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Fine Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£l2/10/-
a. Saunders.
18ct Gold, set
14 Pure Double
Cut Diamonds
and Choice
Black Opal,
£ 15
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Red or Blue
Stone, 15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Emu
CHARM,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold-mounted
CIGAR CUTTER.
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Half-
round Half-chased
Bamboo BRACE-
LET, Strong
Safety Chain
attached,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and'
Pearl, Ruby,
Sapphire or
Opal,
£ 12/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
507-
Gold NECKLACE,
Set Pure White
Pearls and
Amethysts,
50/
REMEMBER,
We Pay
Postage
on all
Orders to
Any Address.
50/-
A Beautiful
Design of our
own work-
manship,
50/-
NO MATTER
where you live,
Our.Up-to J date
Mail Order Depi
will serve you
promptly and
satisfactorily.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Cluster BROOCH, Fine Pure
White Double-cut Diamonds, lO*
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Set
Pearls, Rubies,
Sapphires, or
Greenstone,
15/.
SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold
Engraved
'ITE-CLIP,
S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACE-
LET, set Dia-
monds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL, 20/-
15ct Gold, 40/;
Sil.er, 4/6.
9ct. Gold NAME BROOCH, nicely engraved,
any Initials,
10/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS, set
Pearls and Brilli-
ants, 8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
5 Fine Opals,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold RING,
Set Amethyst or
Topaz, 20/.
66^
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar Amethyst and Pearl BROOCH,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, Jo/.
£3/10/
\l i
'N.
£4/10/
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Lever
WATCH, Full Jewelled, Non-magnetic, Strong
Reliable Works,
gj B/10/.
Rxtra Jewelled Movement, £ 4/10/.
Guaranteed 2 Years’ Free Repairs.
h
BEAUTIFUL GOLD NECKLACE,
75/-
Set Pearls and Topaz,
or Amethyst,
75 1-
IF
You are interested
in Beautiful Sil-
ver-plate, Toilet,
or Leather Goods,
Write us for our
Catalog's of each
Department.
PERHAPS —-
Your eyes are
troubling yo”.
Then let us send
you our free Home
Eye Test Chart.
A. SAUXDERS.
Gent.’s High-grade Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless English Lever WATCH, Hand-
flnished, f-Plate, Hull Ruby Jewelled,
Compensation Balance, Dirt and W ate
* Proof Cases, £2.
Higher Grade,
Guaranteed 3 Years’
£2/10/.
Free Repairs.
£2.
£2/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Fancy Chain Padlock BRACELET,
£2-
Heavier, £ 2/10/-. Strong Safety Chain attached.
Gold “Mizpali”
Heart CHARMS,
F»/«.
- A. SAUNDERS.
Get Gold “Curb” MUFF CHAIN, £3/10
£4, £5/10/.
JEWELLER/
UtfCHsCiflOjy
CmakerZ
ĥ
807.809,811,8»5,815,817,GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY,N.SW
SILVERSMITH/
tO HSULT7* c J
CopticianJl


US
iJ : ; [ : \i
AS
*
4$ %V ->/i
m
m
\
x
x
; V
5
55*
'■Hi*
Eastman
DAR
A Pleasing Pastime
for all Seasons.
E VE ?\ PerS ° n should P osse ss a Kodak Camera. The pleasure, the interest,
and the instruction to be derived from such a possession cannot be secured
in any other way even at ten times the cost.
There’s no doubt, no need for previous experience, and no need for elaborate
equipment with the Kodak. Everything is reduced to the utmost simplicity;
every operation can be performed in daylight and vou get the full measure of
photographic enjoyment by finishing as well as taking Kodak pictures.
Look for the name “ Eastman ”on the camera you buy. It is a guarantee
of reliability and efficiency. Remember, all Kodaks are cameras"; but all
cameras are not Kodaks. If it isn't an Eastman, it isn’t a Kodak.
Ask the Kodak dealer nearest you for further details, or write us direct for a
free copy of the Kodak Catalogue.
You should secure a Kodak for the Easter holidays. The matter of expense
need not deter you from purchasing one. Brownie-Kodaks range from 5/=
each ; regular Kodaks from 26/-.
Taße this KODAK. Camera
with you at Easter.
Here are details of the most popular of all cameras :
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak takes the full-size postcard picture,
3/4d n - x 5/^> n - Lis provided with every feature for the most serious work, yet
is so simple as to be effectively handled by a novice. Equipment includes double
rapid rectilinear lens, Kodak automatic shutter, automatic Prirp lO
focussing lock, brilliant reversible finder and tripod sockets. ' ~
£270 Prize Competition
AHATEUR AND PROFESSIONAL SECTIONS.
See further details in the current Issue of the “Australasian Photo.-Review.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating: Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “ The Block,” 284 Collins St„ Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
h
ĥ
ħ
W'i
wmin
wt
b/ G ® r \^
USTRAtIAN STANDARD
MALT
HISKV.
&StO>
v,
1/isliNpr
U®
The exquisite flavor of Joshua's Australian Whisky is
imparted by age.
The Government puts the stamp of purity on every
bottle, thus safeguarding you.
OBTAINABLE AT
THE CIVIL SERVICE STORES,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And leading Wine and Spirit Merchants throughout the Commonwealth.
WINCHESTER
<r
X
C
m
■
m
fits
mmm
m
m
i
..X
m
m
B
.22 CALIBER AUTOMATIC RIFLE
For camping, canoeing, automobiling, or any outing, this
novel little repeater affords more pleasure than any other
gun. Being reloaded by recoil, it is only necessary to
pull the trigger for each shot. It shoots clean and
inexpensive cartridges, is easy to load and light to carry.
IT MAKES AN OUTING OUTFIT COMFLETE
Winchester Guns and Winchester A mmunition —the Red W
Brand —are Made for Each Other and Sold Everywhere.


ROHLMD'S
KALYDOR
FOR TBE SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.,
BUILDERS OF THE
Bristol BIPLANES
as used throughout Australia by
MR. J. J. HAMMOND,
and also by other World-Renowned Aviators.
Sole Agents for Great Britain and Colonies for
~ CeUbr ‘"‘' GNOME Engines.
The British Government has Ordered Four Bristol
Biplanes.
The Russian Government has Ordered Eight
Bristol Biplanes.
For Exhibitions and Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
absolutely pure.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD
NO PRESERVATIVES.
HOLMES & 00., PERTH, KALQOOOLIE and OOOLOARDIE.
Brewery and Offices:
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A practical discussion of the wrestlingr. boxing
question took place at Melbourne Athenaeum Hall
the other night, when the students of the Vic. Health
and Strength College gave their annual show. A power-
ful young boxer (list. 71b.) and a ’rastler weighing lOst.
or thereabouts had a willing go. They were up to fair
average amateur standard, and their condition was good.
The boxer was never in it. He led o£E with a swipe which
the lightweight ducked, at the same moment catching the
gloves professor by the ankle and downing him heavily.
Then he twisted the ankle with a cross-lock, and the boxer
signalled for mercy ; so he was to all intents and pur-
poses knocked out before he had hit his opponent In
the second exhibition round he biffed the ’rastler once on
the “dial” ere he was down, and then he had to
cry “Enough!” to save his arm from dislocation.
Next round came rougher on the ’rastler, who took
several heavy punches before securing a strangle-hold.
And in the fourth and last round the same order of things
was repeated, except that an arm-hold gave the boxer his
quietus. He had full license to punch his adversary
whilst they were both down ; but he couldn’t save him-
self. This good sporting go was suggested by Clarence
Weber’s recent offer to take on a heavyweight boxer
under the mixed conditions. Still, as a test of fight-as-
fight-can between rival specialists, it was of no value to
the ordinary citizen, who wants to know how to get the
best of an unexpected rough-and-tumble. The boxer was
handicapped with gloves, and the 'rastler, on the other
hand, was forbidden to punch. Now, if a bare-knuckled
Johnson were to meet Weber on “all in” terms, the
demonstration might have sorrowful results for the
’rastler.
* * * *
Ernie Fullalove has accepted Clarence Weber’s
challenge to any heavyweight boxer—Jack Johnson for
choice —who will allow him to utilise the methods of the
wrestler against the boxer’s arts, best man to win. Fulla-
love is an amateur, and not a daddy at that; but he
reckons he can rock the wrestler to sleep while the latter
is pawing for a grip. #
Mr. Lang, pugilist, now on his way home from
furrin parts, seems to have lost that white-flower brand
of modesty which sat so gracefully on what Milton would
have called his “ horrid front ” ere he went away. Mr.
Hang’s career abroad was anything but wildly successful.
He seems, according to cabled accounts, to have lost his
head ; and now, also according to the cabled accounts, to
have likewise lost his mouth, so that the aperture is career-
ing round, talking without any restraint. The gentleman
who lost twice on a foul is anxious to take on Champion
Johnson, above all men. How he can figure out that he
is entitled to the honor of being walloped by Johnson is
a conundrum that only Mr. Lang can answer. At pre-
sent, he has his own chance and Mr. Buckley’s.
* * * *
Those Yankee boxers who recently raided the
Commonwealth would appear to have demoralised the
local pugs. Hitherto the Australian bruiser fought with
his mauleys ; now he is adopting the Yankee method of
fighting extensively with his mouth. Hughie Meeghan
recently opened his head in Melbourne, and gave some
startling explanations as to why Arthur Douglas and he
did not meet; and in due course, as in honor bound,
Mr. Douglas’s manager replied. And the sum total of it
all is that somebody, one or the other of them, is lying.
The public doesn’t care a thrum why they didn’t meet.
It doesn’t want to hear their talk. All it wants is to see
’em fight; and if they won’t do that, it wants them to
shut up. * * *
Distance changes the outlook in bruising as in
landscape. The morning after Johnson broke Burns up,
Burns admitted that he had received some punishment
and was a good deal knocked about. A week later he
couldn’t remember Johnson hitting him, and was ready
and willing to eat him before breakfast, so to speak, the
day after Langford had won from Lang lie re-
marked: “Lang is a type of fighter I never met
before. He has a good punch with either hand,
and many of his blows I felt a bit. Less than
a week later the outlook had changed, and the
contusions had gone. Then Langford spoke again : I
would have won in another two rounds. He could not
have stood up against me very long. That terrible punch
of his was a snowflake. It wouldn t hurt a babv. I
wasn’t knocked down ; I just tripped, and that s all. I
don’t like to express m,v opinions; but I have, them
about a man who hits another when he is down. It is
all good proof that immediately after a fight a bruiser a
mouth should be sewn up and remain sewn for four
months. „ *
* * *
James Griffin, one-time amateur champion of
Maoriland, who came to Australia and promised great
tiiirm'S in the professional ring, has struck a financial
snagT A long and wearying illness has sapped his strength
and depleted his purse, and a benefit will be tendered
him at the Gaiety Athletic Hall, Castlereagh-street,
Svdnev, on the night of Easter Monday. The object is to
raise funds to see the plucky fighter through a serious
operation, and send him home to Maoriland to get better.
The idea deserves support.
* * *
Jack Johnson is in the jug. He received a
week or something for furious driving, and then ap-
Dealed. In the Sl ates an appeal is a loaded thing that is
liable to burst at any moment, and if it fails it always
bursts, sometimes very badly. Johnson s appeal burst,
and the Judge who blew it out sacked another week or
10 days on to the sentence. Johnson is doing it now. He
found some solace the second day from the allegation
that the John Hop who had twice run him in had been
caught letting “ speeders ” go on receipt of palm oint-
ment What Johnson was probably kicking himself over
was that he didn’t try some of that ointment. He broke
up the gaol people by petitioning to have the policeman
placed in the same celL # #
The people who organised the Parramatta Hun-
dred were shocked, and inexpressibly so, at a demand
made bv some of the scullers for appearance-money, and,
rumor hath it that the men who asked were the least
important of the bunch. But that may be the promoters
wav of getting back on the presumptuous caitiffs. Pro-
moting sculling is a game that is calculated to sour the
most amiable nature. Scullers are, as a rule, not cursed
with over much modesty. The gate is not safeguarded
and the proportion of deadheads beats even that which
afflicts Sydney Cricket Ground. Moreover, the steamer
owners who made much f t coin by conveying people
deadheads —to see the show, would not contribute a
bean : and neither would the Tramways. So the people
who promoted the show have notified that they consider
they have done their whack, and if there are to be any
more Parramatta Hundreds, some other mugs can pro-
mote and finance them. It’s a sad world !
The scullers of the Ma State are wondering if
Sydney Kemp, who is to row Harry Pearce for the cham-
pionship of Australia and a swag of £lOO, is a dark horse.
He gave no indication of it in the Parramatta Hundred ,
but then, it is said, he was not in condition, lhe fact
that his father, ex-champion Peter Kemp, is enthusiastic
about his chances impresses a lot of people, who say that
Peter has no sons where sculling is concerned. Anyhow,
as far as the man in the street is concerned, Kemp is an
absolutely untried young man, except for a f ew ?ooa
handicap races, and is getting the chance of hn ■
But, though untried, he has nice possibilities about him.
The struggle takes place on the 22nd—a Saturday.
A remnant of the old-time and famous Mercan-
tile (Sydney) Rowing Club, which was recently wiped
out, has resurrected at Mosman, and threatens to start a
new and glorious career in the red-roofed s u . bu, '“-
opening of the new club-house was a great affair, admirers
and supporters calling* in from all parts of the Coun y
Cumberland, while the seas around were covered with
many inventions. * * *
The inter-State eight-oar race eventuates on the
Parramatta River (Sydney) this year, and Promises to be
worth seeing. N.S.YV., Victoria, S. Australia Tasmania
and Bananaland are in it, up to Lhe neck, and Vi estralia
is'considering whether it will plunge or not. And, no
matter what Westralia does, it should be a great race.
The Athletic Championships at Christchurch
(M. 8.) were a great success, and the record book was
badly damaged. The local record book, that is, of
course. Four new' entries had to he made. McKaj,
Kerr, Keddell, Hill and Opie divided the 12 champion-
ships, and Wellington retained the championship shield
with 46 points.
Gerald Keddell afterwards fled to Invercargill
and swept the board at the Southland championships meet-
ing The 100yds., 220yds., 120yds., and 440yds. hurdles
and hop, step and jump trophies all went into his kit ,
and after that Southland took a hitch at its kilts, re-
moved its “ bonnet ” and acclaimed Keddell as All-
Round Champion of Southland.” Which, unless he takes
flight, means that he will be drowned in usquebaugh.
J. J. HAMMOND ,
Australia’s first
aviator , who will
fiy in Sydney
shortly.
There was revelry in Auckland (M.L.), the
other night, and when'Auckland revels it can hold its
own with the next one, whoever he may be. The
occasion of the excitement was the defeat of the Canadian,
“ jimmy ” Fitzgerald, by L. J. Ornstein, a local flier,
over 10 miles, for a wager of £5O. What Auckland re-
joined over mostly was the magnitude of the defeat,
Ornstein winning by nearly three laps.
* * * *
A record performance has just been put up at
Glen ward (N.S.W.), where a hand of tough-muscled and
stout-hearted men carried an injured companion 20 miles
to Rawdon Vale. The road was over mountainous
country, and the patient was carried in a stretcher.
Seems to be a vacancy for a V.C. or a thumping big purse
of sovereigns round Glenward way.
* * * *
The small crowd of Australian and over-seas
professional runners at present sheltering in Victoria are
beginning to shake it up. Arthur B. Postle is alleged to
have waltzed over 50yds. in 5 l-ssee., equalling his own
world record ; and jack Donaldson claims to have run
the 100yds. in 9 2-ssec. This beat the great Duffy record
by l-sth of a second; but, alas for human greatness,
when the track was measured it was discovered to be
12 inches short of the 100yds.; and the record blew up.
These times have a wild aspect about them, but it is pos-
sible, of course, that Easterude at Stawell may see some
world records really broken.
. * * *
On a small ground in demure Windsor, the
Victorian croquet championships were decided lately.
The singles championship was annexed by J. Tuckettj
the doubles by N. H. Richards and Mrs. Klingender, and
the ladies’ singles by Miss Howatt. This writer doubts
whether he fully appreciates the niceties of the relaxa-
tion or religion, or whatever it is ; but the enthusiasts
became wildly excited over the conclusion of the ladies’
singles bout! An enthusiastic damsel with a gaudily-
decorated mallet explained that if Miss Howatt’s oppon-
ent-having pegged out the green, potted the yellow,
put blue through the rover, outed red and got white-
had sent black to the peg, 4ft. away, she must have won ;
whereas she didn’t, while Miss Hovvatt made a marvel-
lously long shot with black, got red, made the peg and
won. It was a great feat, no doubt ; anyway the writer
cordially agreed with the enthusiastic damsel.
* * * *
The football rumpus in Melbourne has produced
a new word—woofer. A “ woofer” is apparently a person
who barks but doesn’t bite—who looks round and sees a
mess, but doesn’t do a thing to put it straight. It was
first applied to ex-Senator Best, MJ3.R., and seems to fit.
This week is really the beginning of the Vic.
’oofball year, inasmuch as the newly-elected League and
Ass. delegates hold their first meeting. A few' of the old
representatives have retired, and a few have been fired
out by their clubs ; but mostly the same crowd rules as
before. The ’Roy club, which has been no great shakes
for some years, put “ reformers ” into all the club offices,
whereupon 14 of last season’s players passed in their uni-
forms. The new sec. and committee are skirmishing
round after promising youngsters, and also announce,
significantly and lamentably, that they “are in tieat.y
with a dozen or so top-notchers from other clubs.” Mean-
while the Ass. has fired out “for all time” the North
Melbourne delegate who made himself conspicuous In the
reform movement, and is busily engaged in ignoring the
challenge of president Prendergast, M.L.A., to do some-
thing to that club for having, as openly admitted, paid
its plavers £5BO last season. This being a violent frac-
ture of one of the Ass. rules, and North having gained
the premiership thereby, an Ass. with an ounce of self-
respect w'ould jump on the club with enthusiasm. But
there is nary a jump. Wherefore the public jeers. Before
next issue the two sets of new delegates are to foregather
to consider a scheme whereby one body will control the
game < '• business or profession ; so, if there is an explo-
sion or an earthquake or a loud call for disinfectants, the
public will know what it means.
The Northern (N.S.W.) Rugby Union, which
controls the sport in and around Newcastle, is tottering
badly. Last year it began with a credit balance of £62,
and though the year yielded £6Ol, the books closed with
a balance in hand of 9s. 9d. Amateur Rugby is in a bad
way everywhere. #
Longreach (Q.) Jockey Club held a meeting the
other night, and was discussing starting machines, when
a 3ft. snake crawled into the room. The members bolted.
No better start was ever witnessed. #
James Moorliouse, secretary of Adelaide Tatter-
sail’s Club, is retiring after 21 years’ service, during which
the club has grown from an infant to a strong body on
both the social and the sporting sides. Jack Goffage,
long secretary to the Licensed Victuallers’ Race Club at
Broken Hill, is to replace him next month.
;g rnce _the speediest miniature pony Sydney
racing has seen for quite a long time—reached the top
rung last week by winning the Ascot (Sydney) 14-hands
handicap under the mountain of 13st. 41b., conceding
from 581 b. to 811 b. to nine opponents, and speeding over
the half-mile in 51sec. Jockey Walsh (who had a joy ride
on the champion) carried over 801 b. dead weight, which
casts an extra halo around the champion piece of horse-
flesh What weight the brute will have forced upon him
henceforth is an awful nightmare to the prad’s owner.
Since the Maoriland betting law began to biff
the bookmakers and parasites, the totalisator has had its
value fully tested. Though there has been larger invest-
ments in many centres, Napier Park takes the sandwich
thus far. At the recent two-days’ meeting £21,561 was
hauled into the machine—a mighty increase over the
£ll 433 wagered in the machine last year. The increase
of £10,128 suggests that either the bookmakers have wal-
lowed in a joyous time, or else Maoriland is going to the
dogs mighty fast. *
The Sydney cricket season is hurrying down to
its close, and Saturday in Sydney saw the opening of the
10th round of the First Grade competition. It was a dull
afternoon, with rain in the air ; but the followers of the
flannelled fools came out in force and made a great noise.
Not that there was much to make a noise about, for no
one whoops over bowling. Public interest is always
centred on the batsman, and only one of him succeeded
in reaching three figures. This hero was P.
Newton, of Petersham, and he carried his bludgeon for
111 the total score being 254, made for the loss of eight
wickets. That was the .top score of the day. That 111 of
Newton’s was more than a three-figure score. It was
the stemming of a rot and the hauling of a rout
out of the fire. Newton’s slogging exhibition
was excellent, and the young man gave no chances
while bitting one sixer and 12 for four. Public
interest is keenest in the struggle between Redfern and
Gordon, and 10,000 looked on. Gordon went to the sticks
and smacked up 237 before the last man fell. Then Red-
fern got busv, and by the time the stumps were drawn
the board showed 28 for one wicket. Waverley made
204 and Burwood had made 46 without losing any timber
at sunset. Paddington accumulated 255, and University
responded with 16 for three wickets-which is a mighty
noor thing in the way of responses. Sydney would
appear to be in for a doing, making only 156 ; to which
Middle Harbor let fly 107 for the loss of only five wickets.
The best of the howling was Emery s six for, % '? T *•”
fern against Gordon ; R. B. Mirmetts six for 82 foi Uo -
versity against Paddington ; and three for 18 by Randall
of Middle Harbor against Sydney.
* * *
Melbourne Pennant cricket is tramping solemnly
to a quiet conclusion. In the last round prior to the
semi-finals the highest total was University s 277 against
South Melbourne, and the best individual score was Arm-
strong’s 96 not out for Saints v. East. Against North-
cote Dwyer, of ’Roy, made 89 by very pretty cricket,
while Stephens compiled a strenuous 82 for P ran against
North Melbourne. In trundling, Plant s five for 55 for
Northcote, and Hart’s five for 69 for N. Melbourne were
most conspicuous. # # *
The Adelaide cricket season ends with North
Adelaide top, East Torrens a bad second, and Adelaide a
close third. North Adelaide has Gehrs and Rees, but
much of its best work was done by three men who were
dropped from the State team—veterans Reed man, Clax>
rmi and Pellew’. East Torrens put eight men into the
State XI, after going through last season unbeaten ; but
this year they lost several matches to weaker clubs. In
cluVcricket,'Pellew made most runs and Rees took most
wickets The batting av rages were headed by Craw fol d
(66) • Claxton, Pellew, Gehrs, McCarron Drew and Doll-
ing all had over 50; while Clem Hill had only thtee
innings and made 208. Crawford came near the
“double,” being just beaten for bowling average by
Wilton ; Whitt,y third, Wright and Rees away down the
list. * * * *
“Plum’’Warner & Co.’s loud yells about the
unfairness of Australian crowds found their way to South
Africa, with the result that the Springboks, according to
Captain Schwarz, “were thoroughly convinced that when
we P landed at Adelaide we would be greeted with glass
bottles.” (So they were—full ones !) *We also heard that
the cricket barrackers of Australia were nothing less than
accomplished larrikins. But we found bv experience
that the Australian cricket crowd is the most sportsman-
like in the world.” Now, how is it that these English
teams cannot be as gentlemanly and create as good an
impression among our people as these savage South
Africans? Is the Hub of the Universe a place of bad
manners, or what is the matter?
Mrs. Masseran, who trains Society’s body the
way Fashion savs it should go, will be at the Sydney
Metropole from April 10 to the 22nd. Never before has
the woman of generous proportions had to subdue ner
figure so severely; consequently, never before has
Society had more need of the famous corsetiere.
Hockey, which has thrived for several seasons
past in N.S.W., threatens to boom this winter and take
rank as a first-class sport. And certainly it is an exhila-
rating game, with all that spice of danger and risk of
smashed bones and sudden death that gives tone to
sport. The numbers of players increased enormously last
season, and this winter threatens to find several new
clubs in the fieid.
* * * *
A vague sort of cable from Florida (U.S.A.)
announces that Louis Disbrow won the 300 miles motor-
car race on Saturday last. It also stated that the time
(3h. 53min. 33see.)-was a world’s record. If it was done
on the road it Is easily so, for hitherto no .one has
averaged 78 miles an hour for 300 miles. But the chances
are that it was put up on the hard sand at the Ormond-
Daytona Beach, that splendid speedway where so many
records have been made; and, if that is so, it is not a
world’s record, as C. M. Smith, in November, 1909, drove
over 300 miles on the Brooklands track (Eng.) in 3h.
30min. 17 l-ssec., which is roughly 2bmin. better than
Disbrow’s time.
* * * *
An interesting feature of the Olympic Games
at Stockholm (Sweden) this year will be the 200 miles
cycle race around Lake Malar on July 6. It is to be a
combined individual and team race, and carries sundry
gold and bronze medals and diplomas. The teams
will be national, and may comprise as many as
nine riders, three of whom will be reserves.
Six men will start, and the first four will, count.
The event is to be entirely unpaeed, and is creating con-
siderable interest among the riders of the nations.
More’s the pitj T , Australia will not be represented,
although, on the times, it is less than doubtful whether
the European men are as good on the road as ours. In
Europe they always profess a profound incredulity re-
garding the times put up in the Dunlop Warrnambool-
Melbourne ride.
A speed-judging test took place last Saturday
under the wing of the Vic. Auto. Club, which did the
judging. Thirty auto, men were set a secret course,
which was disclosed to the contestants in sections only.
Along this they had to go at a set pace which varied from
16 to 23 miles an hour. The pace set was handed
to the contestants at each starting place. Some
of the judging was remarkable, the winner, J. H.
Grice, being only three seconds out in every mile. Fully
half the competitors got very close indeed ;| in the
majority of cases the speed was over-estimated.
, * * *
The collapsible bicycle is unknown in Australia,
but in France it has a great vogife, and alLthe French
cyclist regiments are equipped with folders. The
English military people stick to the ordinary Ngid-
standard type of bike for their troops, on the ground that
the process of folding and unfolding takes up too much
time, and that if the knack is acquired there is little or
no difficulty in marching with a bike slung over the
shoulder. # „
When N.S.W. cyclist A. C. Weston recently
bolted and won the 10-Mile Championship it was regarded
as a lucky fluke. But Weston evidently has some of the
real stingo about him, as last week he beat most of the
cracks in the struggle for the Half-Mile State Champion-
ship. Weston is one of the best of the new crop of
cyclists, and the old hands will find out all about it
shortly. , * *
The fearsome crop of aviation accidents last
year mostly occurred when the fliers were about to
alight. But evidently it was just a phase which is being
rapidly left behind, as of late accidents have been very
rare. A reckless Frenchman recently tried how
many descents he could make in a day, flying back-
wards and forwards over an aerodrome. He succeeded in
scoring 62 in a journey of 70 miles. In almost every case
the engine was stopped and had to be started again
before the next ascent was made. The test is interest-
ing and instructive. Evidently much more control over
the machine has been acquired.
The just-concluded N.S.W. swimming season
was a splendid one, and saw more swimmers in the water
than any other in the history of the State. It may not
have been so brilliant as other seasons—in fact, it wasn t.
But that doesn’t matter. Where before one could count
the swimmers on the fingers of the hand, this season the)
ran to scores ; and the most remarkable development of
all is the extent to which the exercise has caught on
among girls and women. Every afternoon sees hundreds
of women and young girls scattered round the baths of
the city. Mere infants can be seen striking out bo ' dl V 1,1
the shallow parts of the baths, with mothers and elder
sisters teaching them how, or holding them up by the
chin. And that sort of thing is infinitely better for the
community than a whole galaxy of new records.
* * „ ■*
Prime Minister Andrew Fisher and almost-
blind Gregor McGregor are now added to the list of
people who have motored from Melbourne to Adelaide.
Said Gregor McGregor after the trip was over : Twee
we lost our way near the Coorong. Once at night Mr.
Fisher and the chauffeur took one of the lamps and fol-
lowed the tracks back to a station to ask for instructions.
They walked altogether 15 miles. I remained in the car
and had a sleep. The Prime Minister got back at 3 a.m.
and was up again at five, boiling the billy We had two
rolls of matting and a shovel, or we would not have nego-
tiated the Coorong sandhills ; and once we got stuck in
mud.”
DEFYING FATHER TIME.
Time seems inopportune when he brings a
woman to the turn of life. Life is, or should be,
at its ripest and best for her, and she approaches
this change with a dread of its effect, born of he
knowledge of the suf-
fering of other women
at this season. There
is not the slightest
cause for fear or
anxiety at this period
if Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are taken
occasionally to keep
the system toned and
the stomach in proper working order, doctor
prescribe them, nurses recommend them,
thousands of women who have successfully an
cheerfully passed through that stage can testi y
the value of these pills. . ~ , . - ol
“ I have found your pills to be
for headaches,” writes Mrs. E. Wilson, 406 H
Street, Ultimo, Sydney, ‘-and aiso^ during that
critical period known as the change of life, thro g
which I have passed. I can conscientious y
commend Dr. Morse’s Indian Root ril s
genuine remedy for all general family ail •
and also to all women for complaints peculi
their sex. You are at liberty to publish this, ana
I shall be pleased to give my personal experience
to anyone calling on tne.”*


LOOK FOR NAME
ON STRAP.
mmmm
m
vm.
? yoii want something better' for a Slimmer boot
than you ever had before,- irrespective of price,, look
up the Marshall dealer i ii your town, and ask
him to show ycu a "Marshall/'
TAIVIPICO KlDtf
This is a comparatively new leather to the
Australian public; a high-grade glace
kid, tanned by a special process.
It is a beautiful, soft, medium-
weight skin, and takes a high
polish; and on our Loxia Last
makes a stylish, dressy shoe
that will give unusual service.
Early and large contracts for
this leather enable us to
give you this advantage
in material without a
corresponding in-
crease in price.
18 6
Style No. 1510.
Glace
Kid Bal.,
Loxia Last
(also in Blucher).
Sold
in over
500 Towns
MARSHALL SHOE CO
RICHMOND, VIC
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
//
\\
Want a Dust-proof Cycle?
Our Model 3 is just about as dust-proof a machine as it is possible to
make. The oil-holes in both wheels and in all (.he bearings are
effectually protected. There’ll be no grinding up of the bearings if
you ride a“B. & B.” Model 3. Price is only £ll, too.
Call in and let us show you one. Our Pitt Street Depflt is open till
9 on Friday nights, if calling during the daytime is impossible.
Or, we’ll send a Catalogue.
BENNETT &. BARKELL, LTD.,
Largest Cycle-Building House in the State,
234- Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
/
JOHN STRANGE WINTER
DENTAL CREAM. 1/6,
AS a mouth wash, teeth cleanser and
preserver, the John Strange Winter
Dental Cream has no equal. It acts
as a delicious antiseptic wash, destroy-
ing all bacteria, and imparts a delightful,
refreshing sensation to the mouth. It is
the latest addition to the John Strange
Winter Toilet Preparations, and makes
the teeth pearly white.
Other John Strange Winter Prepara-
tions essential for the toilet are :
J.S. W. Hair Food ; J.S.W. Lakshmi
Cream ; J.S.W. Lakshmi Lotion ;
J.S.W. Creme Marquise ; J.S.W.
Poudre Marquise; J.S.W. Papier
Marquise ; J.S.W. Savon Marquise ;
and J.S.W. Marquise Shaving Soap.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER
(London, Paris and Vienna),
SYDNEY Office: 82 PITT STREET.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Confomat Hard Hat
REGD.
“ THE ACME OF COMFORT.”
THE highest grade HARD HAT, band-made in a
-special way from the choicest materials ; con-
forms to the head, making it most comfort-
able and easy-fitting even when new, and fits any
shaped head. Exceptionally light, very durable,
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED.
Price 13/6.
In all the Newest Season’s Styles. Stocked by
Leading Retailers throughout Australia. Try one.
Insist upon having the genuine best witti the
Trade Mark “ Confomat ” stamped on the leather.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd.,
i Abbotsford, Melbourne. .
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-50 hp. Chalmers
£490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-h.p. THOMAS,
6=Cylinder——7=Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
, ifl ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
LD
$ 0%
OLD ORKNEY
r
A'
v.»
1
m
m
m
i ■
n
&
■ i,
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE —T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott. Donaldsoß
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine.
HOBART-John Ferguson & CoJ
LAUNGESTON —Jonn McKenzie & Co. |
THE WHISKY
FOR ITU HOME
rRIGNEY High-Grade Footwear for Men!
, Every Rijrney Shoe that leaves ottr store is one to be proud of —they are
Shoes for gentlemen. The name RIGNEY is stamped bn the strap of every
pair, which is a guarantV' of style, service and comfort. ' '
Remember, if the uppers of a Rijrney Shoe break before the
first sole is worn through, we will replace with a hew pair.
The Shoe illustrated is a Patent Calf Oxford Shoe, Circular
Vamp, Back Counter Calf Kid Leg, Patent Lace Pace, Per-'
forations. Walking or Dress Wear.
Price 25s* Postage 9d. extra.
Write eok a copy of our new catalogue.
The Rigncy Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,"
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is
Under the personal management of Mr. F. C-
Rijrney, the sole and only proprietor of the
above firm.
am
LI EUR.
BENEDICTINE
DAM THE WATER
IN THE WINTER!
ARE you holding some of the coming
winter’s rain to help you through
next summer? Everyone isn t
handy to a stream, and a mob ot cattle
soons swamps one dam. Save as much
water as you can. You’ll need it. Get
an earth-scoop, and sink more dams ;
don’t pick-and-shovel them, that’s too
slow. The Scoop shown has a cold-
pressed hardened steel body, steel runners
and detachable handles. Dam-sinking,
land-grading, channelling, etc., make a
Scoop a necessity on every farm. Get
one now, Mr. Farmer, while prices are
so low.
No. Capacity.
1 7 cub. feet
2 5■ » ..
3 2 ~ ~
Weight,
i°S lb.
95 »
8o ~
37/6
35/=
32/6
OUR 256-PAGE CATALOGUE IS
Posted Free for Your Asking.
Thos. McPherson 8 Son,
TOOLS FOR ALL TRADES,
582-588 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ir-
" uu A»ltfdk D*p«W>ofc
To npply (he power low his -motor sledges,
with which he hopes to reach the South Pole
CAPTAIN R. F. SCOTT, R,N.»
CHOSE
“SHELL’’
MOTOR SPIRIT
Why?
Because he took It to (he snows of Nfcn*a> Olid scfOalfr
tried it on hie snow sledges before he* would trust
himself to use It b the unknown Arche Regions,
Its perfect purity—
that’s the point ! !
h
ZdW Points
iSr /nventorj
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITUOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cas£s
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
For Sale.
CHEAP, Second-Hand 15BreakH.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
P.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON ' £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 Tss. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mklrournk Auknts : JOHN SANDERSON & 00.,
11l William-street.
ARKI.AIDR & FRKMANTI.It Agknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw .. 12,130 Regd. Tone.
Kilted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Oabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Rifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Placr, Stdnkt.
Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: TIIE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts a)l usual Banking Business.
Bank of |) eut Zealand.
SYDNEV BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banltinjr business.
THE.
Australian Bank of Commerce
j . LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South .Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. 413,484 810
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1593 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.’
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liabijitj^pfShareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Ifivested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. - =
Gen. Mngr.: Eclwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The C clonia ' fQutual pfe
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154— Assuring £33.558.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hot. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE-
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11.,£35105. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless" installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New,
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address,
Shipping.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
h Calls Hobart. Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
f One Class Only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £SS
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
I/I
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
April 13.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 10.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
June 7.
MEDIO and AFRIO to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or-Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from ‘25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
'% YOUR WINTER
* HOLIDAY.
SEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them ? ”
describing many delightful Island trips from
/io upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
LiL/
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO
LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fa\orable terms. ’
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed. .
Security offered must consist of Freehold Lana.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Fost Office A£eno
Crown Lands As'ents and at the Head Office, MOOUE STREET, SYDNEY. J. If- i
y, or from
Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ĥ
ħ
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.O.
'’Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64- Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New, Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
j FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells &, Opals
The Largest Score in Australasia.
E tablished 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curia Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. C ntral 2196.
And 605 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY. Oily 2374.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing 1 thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Bet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
ALL PURCHASES PACKED FREE AND LABELLED.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector :
H. H. Massik.
Head Office: George Stoeet, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Aceouniant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W. C. B. Tilky, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Hangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
T7IIRE. ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
J PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY AND PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
jhe trustees, executors
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esn., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAS, Manager.
FUEDk. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
AGENTS WANTED.
[ IVE Representatives to control exclusive
[ J territorv for manufacturer’s line of High-
grade Snaps and Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices.
100 per cent, to 200 per cent, profit. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U.S.A.
Established 15 Years.
Shipping*
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, April 29 and
May 27
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
in<r with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Grantala, April 8.
S.S. VVollowra, April 15.
S.S. Innainincka, April 22
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, .vhich can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Ofiice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F. H. >S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ AYRSHIRE,”
11.900 Tons. VV. Chicken, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - about 25th April
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - „ 2nd May
„ „ MELBOURNE „ 9th May
„ „ „ ADELAIDE - „ 16th May
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
, Saloon. Third Class.
FARES.. .. £49 10s. £13135. £is 15 s. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdne.v ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
1 FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman,
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.0.’P.1.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Urk, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary; Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. . Eaton,.. W. It. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH S'TJfacing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Bui!ding;s,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.,
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan 1 ' alvy£vs has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable trod trustworthy men.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000
Fire insurances
Marine Risks . •
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “ United ” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
“ rfIHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE DONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.


EORGE HOTEL,
St. iiiltia, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON;.
The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
lntending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Cable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.”
tariff Booklet gratis
at office of this paper.
“Pot Pourri”
stands
for
Quality
“POT POUKRI” Cigarettes.—The
highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per
packet of 10 ; 4/6 per 100.
“POT POUKRI ’’Cigars. —A fragrant
smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/-; 18/6 per 100.
“POT POUKRI” Tobacco— 4oz. tins,
2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/- per lb. There is
none better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POUKRI” J*ipes, Silver-
mounted, superior quality, all shapes,
2/6 each.
If not procurable at your own Tobacconist's, call
or write for catalogue to
A. A. MARKS
Sole Agent, 376 George St.
Sydney, N.S.W.
TROUCH6TS
ti
M
DIURETIC %\
rKIDM&DMDDBRI
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
M
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
Tome
ubrdijnrtti/e «?// Chem tsrs
a
fe\vu«B
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
zrmwiv '\w :
NAI>N;
mi
F.WOLFF&SOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN « LONDON
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.
h
\
I Mm
1
SesKw-
iiMi - *
f' -
1 -vr
m *
«
3505-
50 years ago the name of Alcocfc was practically unknown—to-day
it is synonymous with billiards. Why ?
They have always maintained that high standard of excellence,
so scientifically and accurately constructed their tables, cues, etc., that
it is no wonder that the popularity of Tables has grown so
much.
Gray and many other prominent players have made many of
their largest breaks on an “Alcock,” and are therefore prompt to
proclaim these tables as perfect in every respect.
We make them in all sizes and styles—the ** Bifou ” table is a
special favorite for the home.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue—we supply every billiard
requisite. .
ALCOCK & CO. Pty.ua.
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Baker Buildin s,
Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward Lt.,
Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. £1
TWO
TttE ONLY;
TYRE } '
BUILT on
/CIETWIC'
PRINCIPLE/'
THE.
/ILVERTOW
RUBBED C
?79 GEORGE/ r
/YBftEY
£ MONEY-INFLUENCE
SUCCESS-HAPPINESS
Do you know that perhaps such a simple thing as a little
book might help you quickly toward these things? Do you
know that it is a free book, too? That it deals with a
scientific explanation of “Personal Magnetism” —the
effect of one mind on another ? That hundreds and
hundreds of people have profited by it and are to-day
exultant and happy in their wondrous new-found power ?
Are you a scoffer or a thinker ? Would you praise or
condemn a thing without thorough investigation? Are you
despondent, negative, unpopular, lacking energy and
courage, powerless over others, fettered by circumstances,
customs, and conventionalities ? Send for that Book !
8 n 8
8 a I
CO
La.
We can sen X you free a handsomely illus-
trated book that will set your brain a-tingling
with new thoughts—with suggestions, ideas,
and possibilities you never dreamed of. It is entitled
“Success and How to Win It.” It deals with practical
hypnotism, personal magnetism, and nerve control. It
is plain and easy to read. It is meant for use in daily life.
Enclose Id. stamp for return postage.
Address: DEPT. 7S, VICTORIAN COLLEGE OF SCIENCES,
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
THROW AWAY YOUR PIPE
and
SMOKE MY CIGARS
dn/y\ t
I'VE knocked around a bit over Australasia in .
my time—been in the back parts of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I’ve mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Monaro- in the jarrah forests of
Westralia; in mining camps ail over the Com-
monwealth; and everywhere I ve seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar.
Then, I’ve pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after all this,
people say to me —“Oh, Australians won’t smoke
Cigars!’’
ĥ
I do just get riled when I
hear this. I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of my
DIADEMAS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow!
There’s nothing but To-
bacco in them—and the best
Cigar Tobacco that is grown
—the wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
all clean, straight,long Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I’ve
given them to, as I said, just
swear by my Cigars, Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
—men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit—come
to me and say—“ Look here,
those Cigars of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city. Let us have a
box as a favor."
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at my ex-
pense.
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
Cigars. All I want isfor you
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco —and I know you'll be
a regular customer of mine.
I’ll post a box of 100 DIADEM AS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6of them,
and if they're net as good as the best 6d. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I'll return every penny of your money. I'll
make no deduction for the C;gars you’ve smoked
There’s no funny business about this offer,
mind. I’ll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If you want to know the kind of man
you’re dealing with, write to the General
Manager, the Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I'm a clean, straight chap in all
my dealings.
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
Mv Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
1
BIRDS
3sC.USTARD>^I
Bird’s
Custards ?ruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
! Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
i Adults and the Youthful alike.


hotel daniell
(Late imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
" D royal hotel,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.~*Qj
Bro,sgis t 0 Bay
Are those enemies of dvilisatiom indigestion and
dyspepsia, when Dr- Sheldon s Digestive fabules
are employed. 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 a u es.
111,000
Catalogues
are in the mails at the time
of writing—hurrying all over
Queensland and New South
Wales on their mission of show-
ing people how to save money on
Drapery, Clothing, Boots,
Electroplate, Crockery,
Furniture, etc.
Copies will be sent to you if
you fill in this Coupon and post
it to us.
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big BRISBANE.
Block,
Cut Off Here.
Please send me your new Catalogues.
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
“ Bulletin.”
£lOOO
IN PRIZES
£,lOOO
Value
£5OO
First 1
Great Prize]
Value
£5OO
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full |
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
l Purchaser for same at. the adver ) d
amount if the winner so desires, also tor tne
Second and Third Prizes.
SECOND: Value £lOO. THIRD: Value£so.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’
Great Art Union.
55th Year—Oldest and Most Popular-55th Year
Proceeds in aid of the Hospitals
and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winnm f p an
will be posted to any person sendmg »
addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
April 29, or send Postal Note P-0.0., m
stamps with exchange adde d jT
Representative, 231 T , nc l® rs j secure a
bourne, at once for tickets and secur
chance in this Great Art Union. 22 foi
£1 11 for 10s ,or Is. each.
Lest You Forget,
Buy To-day.
THEO. w. HEIDE, Representative,
231 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
IN
BANNANA LAND
Vowles, the chosen Denhamite candidate
for the late J. T. Bell’s Dalby seat, is a local
alderman and Gent One. tie opposed Bell for
Dalby once before; but that time he ran as a
Philpite against the Kidstonite, and his present
selection as a Kidstonite shows how completely
the Kidstonites have turned their jackets.
March 16 was the jubilee of the birth of,
the Eight Hours movement in Brisbane. The
meeting of 50 years ago took place at the North
Australian Hotel, a well-known pub of those
days; and that grand old democrat, Charles
Lilley, afterwards Chief Justice, proposed the
principal motion. It was not till nearly six years
later, however, that the first Eight Hour demon-
stration took place.
Felton station, on the Darling Downs,
which was Jimmy Tyson’s favorite property, was
sold, the' other day, by J. M. Greenaway; who
had bought it from the Tyson trustees. It ha,s an
area of 34,200 acres. The new owners are said to
have a notion of selling the stock on it—there are
31,000 sheep, 600 cattle and 200 horses—and cut-
ting it up for closer settlement. Greenmount,
Pittsworth and Clifton—three towns thereabouts
—should benefit greatly if this is done.
A decayed industry got a start again the
other day in Bananaland. Two men, after drink-
ing heavily, started for Mount Cuthbert to look for
work ; but on their way the thought of the graft
ahead of them drove them._to desperation; so
they stole some horses and ammunition and took
to “the road.” They stuck up an Afghan
hawker and tied up a Chinaman ; also they held
up the mail change, and finally a pub, where they
got cheap drinks. The police from all the points
of the compass were closing in, and the thought
of glory and stripes spurred the force on. But it
all had an inglorious end. Two men were found
sleeping off a drunk under a shady tree; and the
police woke them up (with difficulty), and accused
them of being the desperadoes they were after.
It was a railway accident that got late
Railway Commissioner Thallon his billet. He
came out originally in 1882 as traffic manager of
the Southern and Western lines. After looking
round, he recommended changes in the method of
working the lines; but Herbert, who was they
Commissioner, wouldn’t agree. Thallon said if
the changes were not made, there would beji
smash ; so he resigned, and got a billet in N. S.
Wales. In little more than a year the predicted
smash happened—at Bowen Hills. Thallon was
asked to give expert evidence at the inquiry
which followed. He did, and predicted another
smash, to take place between Brisbane and Oxley.
It duly arrived before the end of the year (1884)
at Darra, and was worse than the one at Boweji
Hills. Then Thallop was promptly invited to
take his old billet again. _ ;
The bush parson has to pay his footing in
all sorts of’coin. Central* Bananaland has one
who is notoriously good with his fists ; and some-
times he has to cash-up in that coin. Lately he
was asked to go out a bit further. Oirfe evening
he turned up at a homestead with his dusty outfit,
looking as little like a city parson as anybody
could. The boss wasn’t in a good temper. “ Who
are you?” he asked grumpily. The parson
told him. “I don’t believe you ; but if you are
not a liar the best way to prove it is to put on the
gloves—there’s a couple of pair somewhere.” The
parson said something—apparently that he didn’t
want to start that way—and then something else
was said, and before the little crowd loafing
around knew what was happening 'the two were
“mixing it’’ with bare knuckles. TTbe parson
wasn’t out to do damage, till the boss' gpt one in
on the nose. Then he took things seriously, and
the boss was down and out inside a minute.
When he recovered, he got to his feet. '“ You’re
not a liar, Mr. —he said. “ You’re the best
parson that’s been this way!” Then they
shook hands. “ See to the parson’s horses.” the
boss called out to a joey, and they went inside.
“ Boro-Belle” on a Northern disease :
The sugar cocky worships cane with an even worse
enthusiasm than the butter cocky worships Cow. It is a
disease. There is hardly one Bananaland cane-grower
Who produces a spud or even a pumpkin. Cane is over
every foot of ground, right up to the walls of the living
house. (n the Mackay district they have the fever in a
very acute form, fdr there they grow cane on the local
racecourse and in the cemetery. Produce that might
easily be grown locally as a side-line.is regularly imported.
Two well-equipped butter factories were erected in the
district. Both are closed, owing to cocky being too busy
watching the cane grow to find time to milk a cow.
Timber abounds in the district (one man built a pub
-entirely of local cedar), yet the cookies send away for all
their building material. At a co-operative mill, when
the cocky shareholders wanted to know why a bridge had
not been tihilt, the chairman stated that they could not
buy timber in Mackay “ for love or money.” He tearfully
added that, as they required 20,000 ft. of timber, they had
decided to obtain the logs in the district and cut them
down with a saw-bench of their own, and not a solitary
cocky was moved bv this statement to throw his hat in
the air and shout “ Hooray for local industry.” T can see
the time coming when the inhabitants will develop cane
whiskers.
“British Ensign ” : Every little while you
can read things like this in the Northern papers :
Mr. Justice Shand returns from Brisbane by the
Kumano Maru on Monday next.
Mr. Justice So-and-so or some other Government
official don’t travel by Jap boat because there is
no other; often one of the magnificent coastal
boats leaves the same day. Seeing that the
Government subsidises a line of vessels which
must carry white crews, it is About up to it
to intimate that, when its servants travel at
State expense, they must travel by the vessels
which it supports, and not by the opposition.
When the Judge sentences a man for (say)
assault, I presume he does it in the interest of
law and order, and I don’t suppose he would
think of leaving the court and paying somebody
a sovereign of public money to go and assault
some other party. Yet that wouldn’t beany
more ridiculous than this practice of paying State
money to support certain vessels which run under
certain conditions, and then paying other State
money to support opposition vessels which run
under exactly contrary conditions.
“ Myrtle ” : First it was the coach that
was biffed out by the motor-car; now the creak-
ing wool waggon has been challenged by the
motor-van. Longreaeh is trying a vehicle capable
of carrying 10 tons, with broad tyres, and a 12 to
15 mile speed. An extra man for night shift is to
be put on, and there will be a continuous smell of
petrol from start to finish —night and day.
Bluffer Badger says his Brisbane Tramway
Co. has hung up the question of needed exten-
sions until after April 26. “ Are you afraid of
the trams being nationalised?” he was asked.
“No,” the bluffer wasn’t. “But, if the vote is
‘ Yes,’ the control of the tramways will not be in
this State, but in the hands of -a .Board in Mel-
bourne.” At present, the control is in the hands
of a Board in London; but let tßat pass. Ine
bluffer no doubt means by silly gulf
that wages may be regulated by the Com-
monwealth. The regulation of wages wili
in that case be in the hands of a High Comt,
whose Chief, so far from being ‘ a Board in Mel-
bourne,” is ex-Premier and ex-Cmef Justice of
Queensland. Big Yankee cos. no doubt use their
power and wealth to squeeze the people into
voting the way they want them to go in politics ,
but Badger will probably find that when he tries
to introduce his Yankee notion to Australia the
public here will kick good and hard as a prelim-
inary protest.
THE RULING PASSION.
THE CRIMINAL (disgustedly, after taking slock of the only literature the law allows): "'Ere,
this ain't no earflu use to me. Can't yer change it fer a bettin' book?".
Brisbane University authorities make it
their proudest boast that both sexes are admitted
to that institution ‘‘on an equal footing.” Yet
one does not notice the name of any female pro-
fessors anong the teaching appointees; and it
Bella Bluestocking, M.A., should by chance get
a billet at any time on the Uni. staff, she will
probably be paid about two-thirds of the salary at
a male colleague. In the Queensland Education
Department the salaries of male and female
teachers who are doing equal work differ even
more widely than that.
The Bananaland Lands people have been
told one particular yarn so often that they go to.
S leep now whenever they hear the start of it. it
is to the effect that, if the interviewer can get on
to a really decent bit of the earth, a few hundred
others in Canada, England or other foreign parts
will come like the hammers of Sheol to the State
as soon as he says the word. At one time, when
Bananaland was greener, this alleged sampler of
State lands was given a picked block as a bait.
But as the expected rush never eventuated, the
alleged advance agent is now given the warm hand
and the cold eye.
“Kobbi” : Bananaland’s Home Secretary
has got some old ideas—new to these parts—to
put into the local prisons. “Increased comfort
in the cells is the keynote; 60 of them in Bris-
bane are to have “ chair, locker and a few extras.
These are for the comfort of the obedient ana
repentant villain inside the gaol walls. Reading
matter will also be supplied, and increased gratui-
ties for those who do well in the workshops, ihe
Home Secretary should, however, keep going.
The other day I travelled to Rockhampton from
Mount Morgan in a crowded carriage. Among
the congregation was a John Hop and a hand-
cuffed prisoner. There’s room for improvement
in that! , TT .
Thanks to the Waterside Workers Union
and the Seamen’s Union, some of the sugar mills
of Mackay will be a shade “ whiter” this year.
Hitherto, out of the 10 sugar factories in the dis-
trict, four have been in the habit of employing
discolored aliens along with the whites. But that
mongrel mixture won’t last much longer, as the
two unions which have so much to do with hand-
ling the nearly-finished article in transit to Sydney
for refinin'g, have notified that the sugar will not
be handled this year if any colored aliens are em-
ployed in the mills. Four months’ notice has
been given, so there should be ample time, before
the crushing commences at the end of June, to
hunt up extra white workers.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. April 1, 15)11.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Government House is taking it easy just now to
gather strength for the hard graft to come. Next
week his Ex. will go north, and for 40 days and
nights will voyage through the milk and honey of
the Backblocks. Meantime the Vision will act
as deputy-Ex. On Saturday last the lady made
one of the most attractive flowers at a horticul-
tural show at Toowong, when she ran the eye of
approval over ferns and blossoms, and the inevit-
able d’oyley and scone, and announced to the
multitude that the exhibition was open. She will
probably accompany the Chieftain to Goondi-
windi on Wednesday, and assist in opening the
Show there.
Satin and orange blossoms are at a premium
locally, and you can scarcely move without being
hit by a flying old shoe of luck. Next \veek two
of our most eligible medicos go to Sydney to
marry and bring back wives. What is wrong
with us, indeed ! Dr. Jack Thomson will pro-
mise the usual happiness to Miss Elsie Forsyth ;
while Dr. Herbert Stewart will assure Miss Ruby
Taylor, of Bexley, of his intention to love, etc.
On Wednesday last Miss Doris Davidson, a sister
of Dr. Guilford Davidson, of Dr. C. Davidson
(Rockhampton), and of Mrs. (Dr.) Wilton Love
was given by the medical family into the safe
keeping of a gentleman who wastes a lot of the
alphabet through being called Colquhoun.
And new engagements are being announced at
breakneck speed. Victor, of the Coochin bells,
has received a favorable answer from Miss Kite
Darvall ;andMr.F. Watts and Miss Zoe Gallagher
will obey the will of Cupid next month. Ihe old
station homestead of Jondaryan will hear wedding
bells on the 19th, when the youngest Williams
daughter will become Mrs. William Kent. A
heap of good wishes and more substantial realities
are being addressed to Jondaryan. A well set-up,
athletic girl, with the true sportsman s instinct,
is Miss Gwen, and her friends wish her a rose-
lined future.
Queensland will be well represented at the
head-oiling of George V. The latest departures
for Fogdom are the Mileses. C.S. is the manager
of the Government Savings Bank, and better
known to our “buds” as the father of Lieutenant
Nigel Miles, R.N. Mrs. Bocock, for so many
years on the staff of the COURIER, also eoes per
Cm rah. She tea’d her friends on Wednesday,
and between their attentions to the commissariat
they wished her the usual things.
For three davs before any trace had been found
of the missing Yongala, the vestibules of the news-
paper offices and the shipping corner at the
G P.O. were crowded by anxious women and
children, for the crew was largely recruited from
Brisbane. I leave you to imagine the grief
of widows and orphans when the first tell-tale
chaffbags were washed ashore. On Thursday, a
message reached the city from an irresponsible girl
in the North to the effect that the passengers ana
crew were safe ! The cruel mistake spread like a
bush fire, and increased sorrow followed the denial.
Persons who telegraph such statements withou
verification should be something very bad.
\mong the Yongala’s passengers was Mrs. A.
Murray, the wife of a well-known Cairns solicitor,
with her four babies, returning after six months
with her parents in N.S.W. The Rooneys, of
Townsville, were also on board. They had twice
before been wrecked. The first time I m wrecked
is the last time I go to sea, whether I m drowned
° r Passed through Brisbane last week, Mrs. Frod-
sham, wife of North Queensland, and
their children, after a summer spent in the Blue
Mountains. The lady was not a little anxious
lest her roof tree at Bishop’s Lodge should have
taken to aeroplaning. Luckily she was in -Eng-
land during the cyclone several years mo, .when
the Bishop, after the disturbance, found himselt
sole lord of a stack of timber and galvanised iron.
Mr. and Mrs. George Woolnough had a
“golden wedding” on March 27. The.mis er
half of the old couple was editor of the Brisbane
Telegraph for a quarter of a century, vg
Y ours, affectionately,
MARIO.


w
, „ • i priO/6 Watch for 3/13.
Bict Watch Ddl’fid*** Here’S a real Half-Guinea Timekeeper that
& q/n n ' ns t to induce you to buy our “Corn Cob” Tobacco or our
we are offering .vour for 3/11 just ™ dial> and we guarantee it for five years ; you
“ Kingr of All Cigars It ha n i £ e time as any o( these purchases
get it for well under^half-price if _ gQ {Qr Box q{ 100 j 18/6 . a u Post Free.
CIGARS: Four fori/-; Sarnple Box of 1 , / , . Watc h 3/11; postage 6d.
TOBACCO: 2oz‘‘Corn Cob,” packet, ° p Vg, light’or darlc, 1/4 ; the
Total. 5/3. Inter-State, -.. 6d . total 5 / 9 . Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lib.
Corn Cob Watch. 3/n,,p g 3d. extra. Th.e Watch only. 10/6 post free.
Sydney. aabll.h.d so yeare.
br
HOTELKEEPERS !
We will Accept Half Your Present
Monthly Cordial Bill in Payment
of an AUSTRAL PLANT.
PERFECT SODA WATER for Jd. per Dozen!
GINGER ALE and LEMONADE at 3d !
3OOO MACHINES IN DAILY USE.
A Postcard will bring- our latest Catalogue, post free.
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents—ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS,
108 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Headquarters for Cinematograph Supplies
ħ
We are Headquarters for Cinematograph
Supplies in Australia.
Get in touch with a live firm—it’s a case of
bustle or bust these competitive times—
and we can keep you right ahead in the
Picture Show Business.
OUR FREE BOOK ON CINEMATO-
GRAPHY tells you everything about
Cinematographs —all the latest news and
developments. SEND-FOR A COPY.
Our Film List will interest you —it covers every
subject. FREE, too.
Beard’s British
Built Bioscopes,
£37 10s.
■
JERDAN’S,
“ THE CINEMATOGRAPH HOUSE,”
393 Georg'e Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney,
WHENEVER you see a bear with a. Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. • That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
lARDATH
II LONDON
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
i
)
Types of
British Manhood.
THE BUSINESS MAN 1
finds “Winfred” Cigarettes no
inconsiderable asset when engaged
in a deal. Says that their quality is
his only excuse for smoking in the
office.
How many smokers really care
what cigarettes they smoke ?
How many always insist on
having their particular brand ?
\
The answer would astonish any
who do not know the remarkable
sale of “Winfred” Cigarettes,
a high-class brand produced
only for men who will smoke
the best purchasable.
10
20
6d. IV=
Plain or Gold Tipped
Obtainable of dll leading Tobac-
conists, Stores, Clubst Hotels,
&c., throughout Australia
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON. '
Climb to Fortune and Success by
’ V " * ' ' ( : . . _ • j j
Means Business Man’s Library
Now Ready for You.
REMEMBER: That these self-same Books have literally built Businesses. That they contain the actual
plans and methods that have created some of the greatest concerns in the World.
WE are glad to announce to Bullet™ readers the publication of this series of books, for they represent the experience, the judgment, the actual methods
of successful men— to print in big, BOLD type the secret of their successes for business and after business reading.
Many concerns, even yours, have given an entire lifetime to secure only a mere fraction of the matter that has been condensed into these-vo umes,
for in their completed form they embody • -- • % »
The Life-Long Experience of Nearly a Thousand Business Men
-of men who have conceived, engineered and executed some of the largest business enterprises of the World; men-the master minds of commerce-whose
methods and energies have transformed the merest idea into colossal emporiums and gigantic industries. , thpv u ave usec [ are
And the plans of these men-the battles they have fought-the campaigns they have conducted-the expedients and schemes they have used are
described in a form as VIVID and INTERESTING as Fiction in , ' i , -
THE BUSINESS MAN’S LIBRARY.
These Books are written in a style so simple and attractive that to read them is as absorbing as a fascinating Romance. You could not learn in
TWENTY YEARS—through other sources—what these Books contain. • .7 t
We want Bulletin readers —no matter in what capacity employed 1; m?
Whether
You Are:
Employees.
Managers.
Salesmen.
Correspondents.
Buyers.
Stock-brokers.
Shipping Clerks.
Confidential Clerks.
Advertising
Writers.
Advertising
Solicitors.
Accountants.
Factory Managers.
Cashiers.
Private Secretaries.
Insurance Men.
Commission Men.
Bank Officials.
Purchasing Agents.
Foremen.
Professional Men.
Business Doctors.
Employers.
Manufacturers.
Merchants.
Bankers.
Contractors.
Advertisers.
Importers.
Publishers.
Printers.
Electrotypers.
Mail Order Houses.
Capitalists.
Business Colleges.
Estate Agents.
Stock Agents.
Squatters.
Farmers.
The Phases
of Business
the Library
contains:
Financing.
Handling.
Inquiries.
Auditing.
Shipping.
Stock-keeping.
Sales Management.
Checking Salesmen.
Interviewing big men
personally.
Personal Power.
Magnetism.
Card System.
Accounting.
Office Management.
Storemen.
Collections.
Ad. Writing.
Circular Writing.
Prospectus Writing.
Advertising-
Salesmanship.
Management.
Organisation.
Purchasing.
Handling Men.
Training Men.
Handling Agents.
Credits.
Collections.
Correspondence.
Follow-up Work.
Systematising.
Pay Roll Auditing.
Competition.
Fighting.
Canvassing.
Position Getting.
Promotion Winning.
Buying.
Selling.
’Outdoor
Advertising. ** * s
Tram Advertising.
Newspaper
Advertising.
Magazine Advertising.
Mail prder
Advertising.
llow to successfully
manage. Stations,
Pairy Farms and
Estates.'
to avail yourselves of this special opportunity of obtaining a set of The Business Man’s Library, which is being offered at a price that is within the reach of all
lOs. Deposit and 10s. Monthly. When ordering, please fill In and cut out the Coupon below.
SPECIAL ORDER COUPON.
The United Distributing Companies Ltd., c\o George Wynyard Streets, Sydney, N.S. W.
Enclosed find 10/- deposit for Business Mans Library ; the balance to be paid at the rale of iof per month
until completed.
, ...... . Name..
Address.
THESE ARE
THE SETS :
4 VOLUME SETS, £T
6 VOLUME SETS, £3
10 VOLUME SETS, £5
-5% Discount for Cash.
WHICH DO
YOU WANT?
The Sets are beautifully bound in Half Morocco, Published by The System Co.,
London, Chicago. Now in use by over 2500 Business Houses in Australasia.


Scalp Badly Affected. Itched Ter-
ribly. Hair Fell Out. Used Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment. Now
Has Thick Growth Of Hair and Is
Never Troubled with Any Dand-
ruff or Itching of Scalp.
“lam more than gratified by the successful
results I obtained by the use of the Cuticura
M 0
[OJ
Remedies. For several
years my scalp was
very badly affected
with dandruff and
scales. My scalp
itched terribly at times
and my hair fell out.
My coat collar would
be actually white with
the dandruff that had
fallen from my head.
My profession being
that of a barber, 1 was
particular about hav-
ing my hair in good
condition, and was also
in a position to try
many lotions, etc., for the scalp. These had
little or no effect. I had heard so much about
the Cuticura Remedies that I resolved to try
them. I shampooed my head with Cuticura
Soap twice a week and after drying my head
thoroughly, I anointed parts of my scalp
with Cuticura Ointment. I was pleased from
the outset, and continued to keep up this
treatment. To think that only three cakes
of Cuticura Soap and one and one-half boxes
of Cuticura Ointment rid my head of this
annoying trouble, made me feel qpite con-
tented. 1 have now got a thick growth of
hair and 1 am never troubled with any
dandruff or itching of the scalp. There is no
question but that the Cuticura Remedies
cured me. I frequently recommend them to
my customers, and they think a great deal of
them, so you see 1 am very willing to help a
good cause along.” (Signed) John F. Wil-
liams, 307 Norfolk Street, Dorchester,
Boston, U. S. A., July 28, 1910.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are soldi
throughout the world. Send to R. Towns &
Co., Sydney. N. S. W.. for liberal trial box
of Cuticura Ointment and latest 32-pago
booklet on skin and scalp diseases.
AN EMPEROR S APPRECIATION.
—- - M*
The Emperor of Austria has conferred a unique
distinction, as also has the Vienna Chamber of
Science conferred its highest award, upon Dr.
Scheuble, of Vienna, for his discovery of
“Samol,” a treatment for Rheumatism, Grout,
Lumbago, Sciatica, and kindred ailments. So
effective is this treatment that pain is relieved
within a few seconds of its application, and the
poisonous causes of these ailments rapidly
neutralised and eliminated.
As soon as the necessary arrangements can be
made, “Samol” will be obtainable from all chem-
ists ; in the meanwhile, in order to allow sufferers
to test the efficacy of this great discovery, it can
lie obtained, price 3/9 and G/- per tube, post free,
from the representative of Dr. Scheuble —H. A.
Goddard, Eigle St., Brisbane ; or H. A. Goddard,
194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney. fl
LOOK YOUNG
Dr. B. Allen s oj.s.a.)
Mexican Walnut Stain
Is the only Permanent and really
satisfactory One Solution Hair Stain.
Mone Genuine without Signature—ALFßED ARDLEY.
ALL CHEMISTS.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wf, Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.^
72 BISH OPSG AT STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, KC.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE VIC.
63i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
<?
“Boulevard
The Latest
and
Smartest.
L ~
Will not
slip at heel.
PRiCEJi—
-14/6, 18/6 & 211-
Pumps and low-cut Oxfords are the fashionable
Shoes for Women’s wear. The great objection to
pumps in the past has been that they would slip
off the heel.
THE “BOULEVARD,”
an entirely new style, is so cut that it cannot
slip. It is'decidedly smart, and we guarantee it
to stay where it belongs.
Prices 14/6, 18/6 and 21/-
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and
Brown. Large Tins 6d.
Write for our Booklet “ Shoelight.”
EEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, Nth. Melbourne.
FILMS 8 MUTOSCOPES.
First-class German house in the
FILM AND CINEMATOGRAPH LINE
and in
AUTOMATIC MUTOSCOPE
APPARATUSES,
requires for Australia energetic, well-intro-
duced, reliable Agent, of sound Financial
standing. Apply to —
“ K. 9466,” c/o Daube & Co.,
Berlin, S.W. 19, Germany.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. OollinsSt.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
%
Aa!
f#
4*
All-wool unshrinft«
able Socks. Stockings,
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as wool —not
a mixture of wool and cotton —but all wool.
If the name is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you will know that you have all-Australian-wool wear,
and more —that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
Further, the process makes them as soft and com-
fortable as silk. And are made in England.
"&Zi6oY£l Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock Can °k* a * n from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason” booklet and name of nearest
Agent to — O
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
<i>
BRONCHITIS
quickly !
rln Bronchitis,Freeman’s—the Original—Chlorodyne has proved
its curative, soothing and life-saving properties again and again, i
For Asthma, Influenza, Colds and all forms of Chest Trouble there is
nothing better in the world. Price 1/1 i, 2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
Recommended by Doctors for over half-n-century.
See ‘‘Elephant’' on every bottle—your safeguard against imitations.
TRADE
MARK
If your chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle
ay. he can quickly
ft^^getit
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, W.S.W
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office-or your own residence-direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Oaves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
h
Food
FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS AND THE AGED,
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms wilh milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible particles. “The Lancet describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
(Qengcr s Food is sdd in tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere •
823
The Inky Way.
“A.W.A.”: “The Snake’s” graphic narration (B.
29/12/’10) of the eager struggle on the part of
pressmen to report the debates of the Commons in
the latter part of the eighteenth century, and the
subsequent conflict between Press and Parliament, is
highly interesting, but mostly wrong. The Commons
themselves were not averse" to the publication of
debates, and probably had as warm a desire to see
•their “tripe” in print as present-day politicians. It
was George 111., a consistent and strenuous opponent
of any extension of the popular rights, who used his
influence (pretty considerable in those days) to sup-
press the reporting. In 1771, George wrote to Lord
North: “It is highly necessary that this strange and
lawless method of publishing debates in the papers
should be put a stop to. But is not the House of
Lords the best Court to bring such miscreants before;
as it can fine as well as imprison, and has broad
shoulders to support the odium of so salutary a
measure?” George had a reason for trying to keep
Parliamentary doings dark. One Burke, at that
time in business as a member of Parliament, had
a habit of noticing things and of saying things
which, if published, would not have tended to
boost up what remnants of belief in the wisdom
of King George might have been cherished in the
popular mind. Among a host of other things
Burke was known to have hinted that George en-
couraged a high degree of mediocrity as a qualifi-
cation for public office.
* * «■ *
“B. de D.”: While the controversy between
“Hassan” and his opponents drags along, I draw
a scarlet herring across the track. It is time a
word was said on behalf of the casual three-half-
pence-a-line men. The rankest junior is in a better
position than the liner. Conceding that l%d. a
line is adequate (though I don’t see why this should
not be the minimum, with higher pay for superior
stuff), surely the liner should get something for at-
tending meetings which turn out to be not worth re-
porting. I mean, of course, when he has a commission.
At present the casual may find himself put down for
an engagement. He attends, but if no copy results,
no pay results. Or, again, he may write his re-
port, and it may be set up; and then a rush of ads.
squeezes it out "and he gets nothing. By attending
the meeting he has, perhaps, lost a couple of hours
in which he could have picked up something to
make lines out of. It seems bare justice that a
fee for the attendance of casuals at meetings should
be fixed. Of course, if a man goes to a meeting
without a commission it is different; he expects n<.
pay unless his report is inserted.
* * * *
The death-rate amongst country papers in Queens-
land has been heavy this year. Last month the
Gvmpie Mixer, established in 1880, put up the
shutters and went out of the business for good. The
Miner had hardly time to be decently buried before
the Port Denison Times (Bowen), the oldest paper
in North Queensland, established in 1864, flickered
out. In its last two years no less than 13 different
editors had tried to pump oxygen into the dying
paper, amongst them being two well-known Australian
bards —Francis Kenna and E. S. Emerson (“Milky
White”). The last editor, A. Y. Yennard, was only
called in when the patient was gasping. The Ger-
aldton Sentinel, which has been sickly since its
birth, also dropped dead; and that tragedy was fol-
lowed bv the death of the Ravenswood Mining
Journal," whose plant is now being shifted to Pros-
per! ne —one of the districts which “white” sugar is
making to boom.
& * * * *
There doesn’t seem to be much spare room for
“nature writers” in London. A Melbourne “nature
journalist” made inquiries a few weeks ago with a
view to trying his fortunes in the Cold Country.
He has just received a reply to the effect that in
England there are 3000 journalists doing “nature
work” for magazines and newspapers. He has de-
cided to stay in Australia.
* * * *
“Gideon”: Mention in a recent Bulletin of the
fact that a Gippsland man owns a copy of the
Commonwealth Mercury, dated from September 2
to September 9, 1658, and containing an account
of the demise of Oliver Cromwell, reminded me that
I possess a similarly-dated copy of the Gazette,
“comprising the sum of foreign intelligence, with
the affairs now on foot in the three nations of Eng-
land, Scotland and Ireland, for information of the
people.” Referring to Oliver as “a prince, indeed,
among the people of God,” the Gazette sets out
that in foreign parts “he was by good men univer-
sally admired as an extraordinary person raised up
by God, and by them owned as the great protector
and patron of the Evangelical profession. This
being said, and the world itself being witness of it,
I can onely adde that God gave him blessings pro-
portionate to all these vertues, and made him a
blessing to us by his wisdom and valor to secure
our peace and liberty, and revive the ancient re-
nown and reputation of our native country.” The
tea advertisement mentioned in The Bulletin as
appearing in the Mercury, also appears in the
Gazette; but in my opinion a far more interesting
advt. is that announcing the publication of a new
book, entitled “A Few Sighs From Hell, or the
Groans of a Damned Soule being an exposition
of those works in the sixteenth of Luke, concerning
the Rich Man and the Beggar, wherein is discovered
the lamentable state of the damned, their cries,
their desires in their distresses, with the determina-
tion of God upon them. A good warning word to
sinners, both old and young, to take into considera-
tion betimes lest they come into the same place of
torment. Also, a brief discourse touching the pro-
fitableness of the Holy Scriptures by that poor ser-
vant of Jesus Christ, John Bunyan,”
THE DEAR OLD SHEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Matrimony.—Young Chinese desires acquaintance of
ambitious dark young Lady l , with small capital pre-
ferred, view -above. No triflers. S.S. Oxford-st.
P.O, —S. M. Herald, 9/3/’ll.
The Herald is a kindly sheet;
Observe, for instance, how
It pads about on gouty feet
Matchmaking for a Chow.
It mates the love-sick Chow, and so
For Silver ft may soon
Go gladly seeking high and low
A mate for some baboon.
It keeps wet blankets by for those
Who walk in Labor ways,
But hides Fat from his raging foes
’Neath feather beds of praise.
Of bolsters soft it keeps large stocks
Wherewith to prop up Fat,
And save his nerves from sudden shocks
And thuds he trembles at.
And all of Life’s new-fangled things
It cries “O Lor’!” and wilts;
O’er good hard facts it ever flings
Its grimy patchwork quilts.
It “drats” wild Labor to its face,
And all Fat’s cupboards slams
Whilst working at a dodd’ring pace
At futile pillow-shams.
No soul is wedded, dead or born —
The thing is not complete—
Unless the fact upon some morn
Is mentioned by the Sheet.
A poor unwanted babe or two
Wail ever in its hall;
If you are “kind” there’s one for you.
(ffo questions asked at all).
“A dear old body”—nearly all
Sum up the old thing thus,
Who knits for Fat a woolly shawl
And o’er him makes a fuss.
In slippers felt, it pads about.
As only old things can ;
It carries vessels in and out,
And brings the warming-pan.
By bolster, quilt, and feather bed,
By warming-pan and Chow,
The old identity, ’tis said,
Makes its small living now.
N.S.W.
WHITE AUSTALIA.


NOW is the Season for
Clipping Horses
h
ĥ
ħ
Our illustration shows the simplicity of using the
“Number One” Horse Clipper.
A big horse can be clipped in 30 minutes.
You must know that clipping improves a horse’s
health, prolongs his life and increases his value.
The “Little Machine that does Big Work’’ has
steadily grown in popularity throughout the
length and breadth of Australia, and we say
with all truth no horse-owner can afford to be
without one. Send for leaflet.
With Ball Bearings, 40/-
With Roller Bearings, 35/-
Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland—
NOLPSWORTN, tyACPHERSON & CO.
252 George Street, Sydney-.
THE TRIALS OF TRAVEL
Do not add to the trials of travel and of everyday life by carrying
a fountain pen that leaks—that cannot be refilled without a bulb
filler. There j s a safer, better way—to carry an Onoto.
The Onoto is the British made fountain pen that
—Fills itself in a flash from any ink supply.
—That never leaks and spoils clothes and carpets.
—That gives writing satisfaction, gliding smoothly and
speedily over the paper.
It is sold by all stationers, jewellers, stores, etc. And it is worth many
times the price asked—l2/-.
It is only common sense to discard obsolete pens and ways of writing—
to go to-day to the nearest stationer's and say —“ An Onoto Pen, please.”
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos. De La Rue
k Co , Ltd., 164 Bunhill Row, London. E. 0., or the Australasian Repre-
sentative. Norman Baker, SO York Street, Sydney.
'K
'^ndUpwan&j
h
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Pen
IMPORTANT. —For those who require a larger pen with
a very flexible nib, a special model —the new G —has been
put on the market. It is exceptional value for the money.
Try this new G at your stationer’s.
Model ') T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £270 (full equipment included).
“ FORDS ” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the m&n from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£270 complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlcreagh St., Sydney.
TEVENS
MAYNARD JR. RIFLE NO. 15.
ĥ
Measures 33 inches over all. Weighs 2pounds. u Take Down
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle —will also shoot C. B. caps and
.22 Short R. F. and .22 Long R. F. cartridges.
Feature.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
i
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Repressnt-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-r*ope Cata-
logues. [9
ħ
<4
Will Grow You a Moustache!
IT’S simply wonderful the way “ CAPILLARINE ” will force the finest,
softest down on the upper lip into a luxurious, flowing moustache.
No one can notice it's been used, and it only wants applying at night
before you retire. Has been on the market for 30 years, and proved its
value to thousands.
Price 10/0 a Jar,
to any Address In the World
in Plain Package.
Have you a Moustache? The Craig & Aitken Trainer shapes it
nicely. Worn at night. 2/6 post free.
CRAIG and AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
15
rl
J4025—15ct. Gold, Pearl and Blue Tour-
maline set Pendant, £2/2/-
Gl6B0 —Pearl and Tar-
quoise set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, 70/-
C4l7B—lsct. Gold (Palm Leaf) Brooch
Pendant, set with Pink and Green
Tourmalines and Fine White Pearls,
£7/10/-
Fullest Value —Finest Quality.
The purchasing power of ten large establishments is greater than
that of cfae. There are ten large Stewart Dawson establishments in
different parts of the world, the buying for which is controlled in
London. When you come to compare our prices with other prices,
carefully keeping in mind the quality and merit of design, the inevitable
conclusion you arrive at is the superiority in value and quality of all
“Treasure House” goods. Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
J4lB—Fine Diamond,
Pearl and Olivine
Pendant, £lB/10/-
J323l—9ct. Gold Pen-
dan r,, set Amethyst,
Green Tourmalines
and Pearls, 25/-
H2o79—9ct. Gold Plain Band Bangle, £1 7s. 6d.
from 21/- to 40/=
Others
The “ Britannic” Expanding Watch Bracelet., 9ct. Gold, wi
fine Lever Movement, £B/10/® 15ct. Gold ditto, £l2/10/®
15ct. Gold, Pearl set, £lB/10/®
C5BB1 —Jsct. Gold and Turquoise set Bangle, £6/15/*
Ditto, 9ct. Gold, £5.
Stewart Dawsoa § Co.
(Australia),
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J46B3—Oct. Gold, Pearl and Amethyst set
Necklet, £2/10/-
J299s—Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-


Missing Friends.
WILL Major J. D. Ward (or anyone recently
meeting him) write to anxious advertiser ?
Major Ward left Vancouver, 8.C., for Australia
August, 1910. Address :
M—l —e,
37 Stapleton Hall Road,
Stroud Green,
London, N„
England.
DUNELL RICHARD, deceased. Any person knowing
addresses of the children of the late RICHARD
LEE DUNELL will oblige by communicating with the
undersigned. ‘Last known address, c/o Mrs. Kerr, 136
Queen Street, Wooll&hra. E. S. HERRING, Solicitor,
Maryborough, Victoria.
F DAVID ROSS and KATE ROSS, late of Berrimal
(children of WILLIAM ROSS, late of Swan Hill,
Victoria, farmer, deceased), will communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY,
LTD., of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, they will hear of
something to their advantage.
Business Announcements.
THE NAME THAT
STANDS FOR THE
BEST IN SOUND
REPRODUCTION.
THE name “ Edison ” on a Phonograph signifies
perfection in sound reproduction.
It stands for the original instrument of
the type, and for every subsequent improvement
of' importance.
It has made entertaining' easy, and placed at
the disposal of everybody the world’s best music of
every kind, sung and played in the very best way
by the world’s best artists.
Go to-day to the nearest Edison dealer and hear
the genuine Edison Phonograph play some of the
newest Edison records. You will be charmed by
the sweetness and purity of tone, by the clear
rendition and by the evident goodness of both the
machine and records. Write to us direct if you
do not know the address of a dealer, and we will tell
you that of the nearest, and also send latest lists.
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
(Wholesale only).
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
sdf
ĥ
PEBECO
ħ
does far more than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, economy
in dental expense and better health.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Sole Agent—
G. Arnold,
6 O’Connell St, Sydney
(Wholeeale only).
h
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL !
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib. left bar- >■;
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial ? .. £5 - 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. ..8 5 0 5 10' 0
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial .. .. ... .. 310 0 1 17 , 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge.,
- fast cross bolt, choke bort,
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge * v
ejector. Trial V *,.j? ,5 50 0 4IT G
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Gree%er patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0 0 710 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
iSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers*
139 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet ot Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL S,
“The Greatest of all Pantomimes,”
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING ar, 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUR- MISS GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGItOVE.
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY., LTD.. SEASON.
A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
First Production in Australia of the Most
Sensational Play of Modern Times,
THE WOMAN IN THE CASE
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction & Management, GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
Gommencintr NEXT SATURDAY EVENING.
GREATEST AND MOST SENSATIONAL PICTURE
DRAMA EVER INTRODUCED,
THE LUCK OF ROARING CAMP.
As plaved before the Camera by the
GEORGE MARLOW DRAMATIC CO.
“ More Thrillintr than a Dozen Novels.”
POPULAR PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is. and 6d. Box
Plan at Elvy’s. ___
A DELPHI THEATRE.
Direction & Management, GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
LARGEST THEATRE IN AUSTRALASIA.
MAGNIFICENT RECEPTION of the Latest and Most
Phenomenal Dramatic Success ever seen in Australia.
The Bad Girl of the Family,
as so Ably Interpreted Nightly by the
GEORGE MARLOW DRAMATIC CO.
“The Sensational Bedroom Drama.” —Press.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES AS USUAL.
WIRTII BROS.’ CIRCUS,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
SYDNEY,
EVERY EVENING.
EVERYTHING NEW.
ALL NEW ARTISTS.
LIZZIE, LIZZIE,
The Enormous Blood-Sweating African Hippopotamus,
the only Live Hippopotamus in Australia,
costing Wirth Bros. £1250.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS,
AND ALL HOLIDAYS.
PRICES —45., 3s. and 2s. Children Half-Price
Reserved Chairs, ss.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
the: LYCEUM ..
Levery evening at 8
Matinees-Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
C PENCER'SHaTREJCOPE <?•
J PICTURES
« rfftE SVPER.IO/Z ro ALL OTffEH3. -a
Popular Prices Plata at Paunos.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
TO-NIGHT at 8, and EACH EVENING,
“IN LONDON TOWN.”
Business Announcements.
PERDRIAU
Motor Coats.
The Perdriau “ Kosciusko ” Motor Coat is a good
protective Coat, sure to shield the wearer from
biting- winds, penetrating rains, and other excesses
of weather.
* It is fashionably cut, and perfectly finished in
double-breasted style. The material is a special
Bannockburn Tweed, with full military back,-high
collar and velvet wind cuffs. The inside seams of
this Goat are bound so that it can be worn without
the lining, which is made of leather.
Supplied in Dark Greys and Heather Mixtures.
Price £B/15/-. Other Motor Coats from SO/- up-
wards. Dust Coats, 12/-, 13/6, 22/6.
Call and inspect these splendid Coats, or write
for our new Winter Price List, giving further
details.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The NEW CENTURY DARNER
2/6
carriage
V AIU
ĥ
ħ
ON ANY SEWING MACHINE
Our labor saving attachment
weaves a new heel or toe in
stocking in 3 minutes. Simple, Swift.
Send for 350 Pape Illustrated Catalogue, post free anywhere,
UNION MFC. CO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where allld. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER,
W E ST’S PICTURES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir.: T. J. Wkst.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
Tivoli theatre, sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. R. A. ROBERTS.
Brilliant Success of one of America’s Leading Specialty
Artists, LEIPZIG, the Incomparable Conjurer.
MISS FLORENCE CROMER CHALLIS, Impressionist.
ALEXANDER PRINCE. King of Concertina Plavers.
LORNA and TOOTS POUNDS, TRISTRAM GREENE,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling's.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor <fe Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
COLUMRIA COMEDY CO.
VALANCHES FOOTBALL DOGS.
WILD WILLIE AND WEST, Comedy Acrobats.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist,
LEIPZIG, Conjurer, Card Manipulator.
YETTA, Wire Walker.
Plan at Allan’s. &T PRICES—Bs., 25., Is.
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S “ ARCADIANS ”
CO. in
THE BELLE OE BRITTANY
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF THE COMPANY.
Plans at Allan’s. . PT - PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Wilmam Andhrson.
LAST SIX NIGHTS.
MAX M \XWELL S DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
—IN —
The Magnificent Drury Lane Spectacular Creation,
IN LONDON TOWN.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 8,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC) OPERA CO
in a Revival of
A WALTZ DREAM.
Reappearance of MISS FLORENCE YOUNG.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —5/-, 3/ 2/-, l/~.
Ilf E S T»S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST'S PICTURES, THK BEST
OF ALL. » LIMITED. OF ALU
Managing Director : Mu. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiif. Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
pre-eminent in two hemispheres.
Any Moving Pic ure Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Pi.iee.s_6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices-2/-, 16.
1/- 6d. Matinees— Wednesday. Saturday. All Holidays.
IRTHS ©L.'f MF
EVERY evening at 3.
w
Matinees -Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 2 -30
PENCER'SIHEATRBCOPE Q
J
OTHERS
/ILL
ro
SUPERIOR.
/IRE
USUAL
AS
PLAN
PRICES
Popular
YR 1C THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
■ EVERY NIGH l' at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at. 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on Hie Marvell..us ‘Ala - "teen. CoyeUier mui the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s C. M. Read’s and me Lyric Theatre Cafe.
ROYAL SYDNEY SHOW
11th to 19th April, 1911.
BIGGER THAN EVER.
1500 Horses. 1000 Cattle.
Magnificent Parades of Live Stock Daily.
Great Hunting Trials.
Grand Displays of Produce.
Splendid Trotting Trials.
Machinery in Motion.
EXCURSION FARES FROM ALL PARTS.
Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER,
Secretary.
Few men can strop a razor properly
—most men blunt, instead of sharp-
ening it. The Gillette Razor needs
no stropping nor honing.
British made and sold everywhere. Write for “Hints on
Shaving,” sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct,
London, England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L'O'U'l'S
h
THE “PLUM ” RAZOR, 10(6
Greatest shaver ; ever-rinsrinjr steel blade th.it keeps its
ed<?e splendidly :.nd wants little. stropping. We use it
in our own hairdressing business. We guarantee to
keep it in order free of cost for two years.
The “PLUM
RAZOR,
Post Free.
10/6
Have you a Mous-
tache? The Craig
& Aitken Trainer
shapes it nicely.
\V< rn at nig h t.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEH, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.


THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
JJORRISS
te Witches
mwr
to
er for
HIGHEST GRADE.
Is per 100. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
BOVRIL
. ;
S'
>/
Wi 4\\
I
Tickles the Palate
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
m
~r
4r^
FIDELITAS
#£§£
mz.
i,,5%
l^’P!
fi*
ft\ Sgl ; .
rajs
v-W
"jj '!
r.WOLFFaSOHN
‘KARLSRUHE
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
'/II
MIGHBUI/V
V
s:
<
nr*
EE
ts%
n
\
X 7
i
Bibend urn's Tyre Lectures , No. 3.
Therefore, gentlemen, the ideal arrangement
is three “Semelle” Nonskids and one Square Tread, fitted as has already been
indicated ; that is to say:—
A “Semelle” Nonskid on the left front wheel, a Square Tread on the right
front wheel, and a pair of “Semelle” Nonskids on the back wheels.
With this combination you can take the greasiest roads with the assurance that
your car will suffer none of those heavy strains which so often result from side-slip.
Our steel-studded, leather-protected, “ Semelle ” Nonskids are distinctive, not
only for their durability and efficiency, but also for their resiliency. They are just
as resilient as ordinary tyres and, by virtue of their construction, are hardly more
Jiable to overheating.
ALL THE- LEADING GARAGES.
WARNING. —Don’t buy Michelin Tyres at less than current prices.
They may be of old manufacture. Purchase only from our Agents.
The Best Ploug'h Shares
Money Can Buy
in
«jOIGHT S7T£/
\ PLOUGH v
SHARES
EASILY LAID.
“ Anvil srand Hard Steel” Plough
Shares have long since established their
name for cheapness, thoroughness and
durability. None but the best quality
materials and most skilled labor are
embodied in their manufacture. They
stand the strain of breaking new, hard
ground. The socket is far superior to
others —no rivets or studs to shake loose.
They are easily laid, cut clean, will not
break, save time and money. Full par-
ticulars free.
Price 4|- each.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Bali
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
‘RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
ĥ
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH!
TIPS.
2/6
t the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bour-ke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiie Bulletin.] [6
FOR
RHEUMATISM
GOURYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
AN Australian’s Two Hands- 4 —THE .LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’s
do without either, and they both cost the same.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
ħ
Stevens' ft FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F.. or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear sights, ac /
weight 4ilb. Postage—l/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State. /"
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear, 37/6.
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each
extra.
h
“ The ContinentalS.B.B.L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38£in., weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage —Is. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
35/-
ĥ
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight gri
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
p, slide action,
42/6
c
Send for our illustrated Sports,
Fishing and Tobacco Lists, FREE.
••The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end, weight 12-gauge, about 71b., 16-gauge, about 6|lb. Delivered, £3jlsj m
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford St.,
Sydney; Church St., Parramatta ; 113 King St., Newtown. 2
Schute, Bell & Co.
LIMITED.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not soil Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Prooeeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre ct Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our riCTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
method of advertising, with the object of making our name more widely known, and to intro duce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS!
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S*R*L*A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co., Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the Bank of NS. W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 2/6
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
aocept this reward for your services for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
efthe right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (BankN.S.W.).
Due notioe of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 100 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct answers in the order in which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach us before the closing date, and be correot according to our conditions and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady’s or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B.—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POST CARD CO.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows :
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF TIIE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I acoept as final and legally binding.
Signed
Address
Date
What You Get
Not What You Pay—|
COUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Built by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
ħ
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU !
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE:.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
in BLACK and .BROWN.
[if i.f■: t .vntl also the < heat >•:.(
PAST!:'. POLISH on tin- market
lor cleaning, polishing, and
preserving all kinds of Leather
■HHHMHBHRHHHHHBHHB| Loots, Shoes, Harness, &c.
ol d everyw h f: r f.
h
(fyamK
tfOpSHINt?
ĥ
GLACE %*,]
MADt. &Y
t BROWN &sor*
AT ThC»*< MUTOHiAN BLACKtMC m AMwr AC TO Wf .
7 UARR'CAb' cOHOON vV.C A
s«mr 9H«fcCK*>rnTY wirnwuW
\RUOTO APOUSM TMOi FINISH
v
rMSM y
rr^X
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON
/Blacking: and Boot Polish) I TI)
1 Manufacturers, ■
LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favoritb
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Tellin« by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust.Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Pa6*s, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
m.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.'*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel adelicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~m
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj t , Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s (Id.
Self Instructor : Every, Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Hook keeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The : Cay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s (id each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. §*“ Established 25 Year s .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer,. Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s -Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
iNGEksoLL’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. Q. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete). Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY,


h
TERRIBLE SHOOTING PAINS 8 SHORTNESS OF
BREATH-MANY TREATMENTS PROVE USELESS.
m
Mr. MAYOR,
cured by Rile Beane.
THE grave perils of neglecting to attend to
Nature’s warnings that the system is dis=
organised and requires attention is illus=
trated by the painful experience of Mr. Henry
Mayor, of 1048 Hay Street, West Perth, who says :
“ I have led a very active life, and my eagerness in
business pursuits led me to neglect my health, with
disastrous results. By not paying sufficient attention to my
diet nd the condition of my bowels, my system became run
down. I had to pay the full penalty for such carelessness, for
soon I was the victim of that awful complaint—Constipation. I
felt greatly depressed, and a feeling of dread, as if something
was about to happen, would be continually with me, while
terrible pains would shoot through my head from temple to
temple. A fulness under the heart caused me to gasp, and I was
frightened to breathe for fear of this terrible stabbing pain that
would shoot through my body. None of the medicines 1 took
did me any good; in fact, I seemed to be worse afterwards, and life
became a burden. Sleep at night was impossible, and I would
be tossing about in bed for hours. The feeling of suffocation
that used to overtake me was very distressing.
" For a considerable time 1 suffered, taking all sorts of medicines and so-called reme-
dies without any good results. A friend recommended me to take Bile Beans, and, more to
please him than anything, I did so. Bile Beans gave almost Immediate relief, their action
on the bowels being most mild and soothing, with no griping pains like the ordinary
remedies I had been taking. The dizziness and headaches disappeared, and the fulness and
wind around the heart left me. As I continued with Bile Beans my appetite returned, and
the great mental depression was removed. My general health Improved, and after I had
undergone a full course of Bile Beans I was completely cured of all my ills. Now I feel
splendid, being healthy and strong, and able to transact my business and enjoy life.”
The Standard Family Medicine.
Bile Beans are a proved
remedy for Biliousness,
Indigestion, Constipation,
Headache, Pile 3, Anaemia,
Dizziness, Flatulency, Bad
Blood, Bad Breath, Spasms,
Vomiting, Debility, Belching,
Restless Sleep, Sluggish
Liver, Nausoa, and all ail-
ments that owe their origin
to defective action of the
Liver, Stomach and Diges-
tive Organs. Price Is. I£d.
per box, or 2s. 9d. Large
Family Size (containing
three times the Is.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
u
eans
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving' the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Welcome!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WELCOME the children of thunder!
The younglings of battle,
The steeds of the diking,
The horses steel-bridled
And shod with the lightning—
Welcome the aetheling of thunder !
Kings of the nethermost tempest,
Furnaced and furnished,
Battered with hammers,
Braced with grey metal,
Crowned with authority,
These shall come after —
Welcome the sethelings of thunder !
£rrey seeds of history,
Sown on the waters,
The compassing waters,
Pregnant with destiny ;
Lo, to the thunder-call
Speak we your welcoming,
Children of doom !
Visions have smitten us—
Flames of the furnaces
Leap to our bellows-blast;
Thor at the anvil
Batters the furnaced bar;
Ribs of the South Land,
Torn from long darkness,
Ride on the summer wave—
Leaps the loud lightning.
Our gauntlet thrown down !
Death ! We have stricken deep !
Bolts of our hurling,
Red with destruction,
Compass the darkness !
Shudder the mountains,
Tremble the peoples !
What shall the doom be,
Children of flamei?
Welcome the aethelings of thunder.
The younglings of battle,
The vision of lightnings !
Grey seeds of far destiny,
Sown on the waters —
Welcome the sethelitigs of thunder !
N.S W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Billy’s Mother.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOUND myself out of work in Welling-
ton, Maoriland, and only £9 10s be-
tween me and starvation: the outlook
was desperate, for Wellington is a dreadful
sort of place, where a man wants to get
£9 10s. per day to make life endurable at
all. When the wind tvasn’t blowing the
mud and stones about the streets it was be-
cause it was raining so hard that the wind
couldn’t get between the drops. I used to
get about four new hats in Wellington every
day—that is, the hats were new to me, but
not fresh from the shops. When one turned
the corner he was certain to lose his hat, un-
less he held it with both hands. When that
misfortune did happen, the loser never chased
the vanished tile, he simply stood still with
his hands stretched out in the manner Moses
is understood to have held his extremities
when a fight was on, and waited till the
wind brought him someone else’s head-gear.
If it fitted he would just cram it on and
start off. If it didn’t fit, lie, would carry
it in his hand till he met another man doing
the same, and they would effect an exchange.
It was awful work tramping round the
offices, seeking employment. Things were bad
in Maoriland in ’93—the country was still
suffering from the effects of the Atkinson
ahti-Socialistic legislation, and the back-
wash of the Australian bank smash had
struck the place. In some of the offices tney
were sympathetic, in others they were too
worried to sympathise with anybody; and
there were a few in which I was greeted
with the information that the managing
director was supposed to have been drowned
in a boating accident off Peucarrow, and had
the key of the safe in his pocket; so that
they would have to ask me to call back in a
day or two, when there was a reasonable
chance of the body having been recovered.
In such cases I didn’t trouble to ask for
employment; a sort of intuition told me it
was not worth while.
A week of that sort of thing caused me to
decide to become a Parasite.
It is one thing to decide to become a Para-
site, and another to find a Host. If you try
and fasten on anyone permanently the brute
soon succeeds in scratching you off, and it
took 24 hours’ hard thinking to decide howto
do the thing properly. Then I took an of-
fice which the last tenant had vacated with-
out paying the rent, and the landlord said
that, as I was just starting, he would charge
me only 2s. per week extra for the use of
the furniture and fittings the other fellow
had left behind him. It was a comfortable
little room, and the furniture was a great
boon, for my capital was running out.
Then I bought a bottle of ink, got some
paper with my name and the additional
words “& Co.” in the corner, laid in a bottle
of whisky, a few cigars and a box of cigar-
ettes, and sat down to wait for Hosts to
come to me. I guessed they would come
when they saw what was written on the
marble slab inside the big front door down-
stairs, about money lent and business of
any sort transacted.
The first Host who came was a tradesman
sent by my landlord, who had *340 of book-
debts to be collected. It was a blow to my
dignity—but I had no friends in Wellington,
and money was scarce, and getting scarcer
rapidly.
* * * *
On my list was one woman who was hard
to find. Her address was Ardrossan House,
Elgin Court. It had an aristocratic sound,
and the fact that she owed £8 for
meat had caused me to look for Ardrossan
House and Elgin Court in the fashionable
qua i ter of the city. The place was not
marked on any map that I could find, and no
one seemed to know its whereabouts. At
last, when taking my clothes to be cleaned, I
caught sight of the name Elgin, half obliter-
ated by rain and rust. This tiny corner of
a Idir.d alley was .Elgin Court, and right at
the end of it a big building with an arch let
through it was marked A/drossan House.
I walked up and tapped at the door. A
faded hag appeared, and glanced at me
wearily. An unkempt head ot a female ot
uncertain age looked over her shoulder.
“Are you Mrs. Albyn?” I asked.
She brought her upper teeth down over
her underlip in a scandalised sort of way :
“oh, noand then, with an evil grin, she
jerked her thumb towards the arch, and shut
the door suddenly. ■_ .
As I stepped down and. walked into the
arch I could see her peeping out of a side
window at the door which she said was Mrs.
Albyn’s.
I knocked moderately. There was a pat-
ter of tiny feet, a baby voice called "Muv-
ver!”' Then the door opened softly, and a
ladv, in faded but fashionably-cut clothes, ap-
peared, holding in her hand a child’s boot,
which she was obviously trying to mend.
She bowed gravely.
“Good-morning! Are you Mrs. Albyn?
She nodded, with the half-guilty smile of ■
person who has been discovered in spite of
herself.
“I suppose you are Mr. Morton’s collec-
tor?” sue sam sadly.
“Yes, mauam, unfortunately.” Then I
stopped; 1 didn't know what to say —the
sight of that ragged little boot took the
words out of my mouth'.
"And you want money?”
“Yes, madam —just whatever you can
spare, you know.”
"To-day I can spare none, for I have
none. Come round next Thursday after-
noon, and I will see what I can do.” And
she gave me a smile that was beautiful and
winning—-and next moment she had boweu
and closed the door.
On Thursday the streets were rivers. The
mud was whirled in sheets by the conflicting
winds that fought for supremacy at every
street corner. An Antarctic blast howled
spasmodically, and froze the flying mixture.
It was awful. But a stern sense of duty,
a fearful anxiety to get that £8 account re-
duced for poor old Morton’s sake,, drove me
up to Elgin Court.
The very wind seemed to shriek derisively
as I waded down that lane, i had to knock
nearly a dozen times before the door opened
slightly, and the pale, shell-like face with
the crown of brown-gold hair peeped through
the aperture.
“Oh, come inside; isn’,t it a dreadful day.
I had almost concluded that you wouldn’t
come. Your feet must be soaked. Oh, you
have gum boots, what an excellent idea. I
wish I could get a pair of those —I have to
go abroad in all weathers.”
“Yes, it is wet,” I said, as I entered.
“Take oil' your coat and come and sit
down till the rain ceases—it is too dreadful
io be out. It was good of you to call, and
such a day, too.” And then the dingy,
gloomy hall was lit up by the glory of her
smile..
“Now, what kind of creature is this at
all, who asks a dun in to dry ?” I asked my-
self, as she helped me off with my coat.
I followed her into a tiny drawing-room.
The furniture was very old, but heroic at-
tempts had been made to polish it; and there
was an atmosphere of refinement about the
place. I sat down before the tiny scrap of
fire in the register grate, and a beautiful
child of about four looked up at me with
wide, wondering eyes of lustrous brown.
“Is this your baby?” I asked, stroking the
child's brown ringlets.
“That’s my littlest baby—God help me,
they are all babies, the Whole seven of them.
Rosalind and her twin brother are the eldest,
and they are not much more tnan babies.
They are at school, and will be home as
soon as the storm will allow them.”
“Have they far to come?”
“Yes, it is a good step, and the streets are
so muddy. I couldn’t let them go last week,
so they have to go all weathers this week to
make up their time or I should be fined.
Billy’s at home this week.”
“Are you a widow, Mrs. Albyn?”
“Yes, sad to say»—will you have a cup of
cocoa?”
Outside the rain had stopped. A scrap of
sunshine gleamed faintly for a moment and
then gave way to greyish gloom. She rose
hastily and hurried out. I sat watching the j
door she had vanished through, and while I j
watched, a little boy, who might have been j
the original of Bubbles, peeped in.
I beckoned him over. He came gingerly, ,
and his little feet were bare.
“Are you Billy?”
He nodded and whispered, “Yes.”
“Why aren’t you at school, Billy?”
“Haven’t got no boots, an’ I catch cold
when I go wivout boots, don’t you?”
“Yes, Billy. Do you like stickjaw?”
“Got any?” he said, with a gurgle of de-
light.
“No, but I’ll bring you some when I come
again.”
His face fell—his lip stuck out; I thought
he would have cried.
“Perhaps mamma will let me carry yon
down to the shop at the corner and buy you
some when I go.”
“You ask her; she’d spank me if I did”;
he said knowingly, as though he always got
on well with debt collectors.
Then his mother returned with two cups
of cocoa, and some thin bread dotted here
and there with butter. She bundled Billy
out with great suddenness.
Then the baby that had been sitting so
quietly on the hearth climbed suddenly on to
my knee. The mother snatched it away
hastily.
There was a knock at the front door, the
children came in from school, and received
small slices of bread and butter. They were j
a beautiful family, boys and girls all had i
the crowning gift, or curse, of almost an-
srelic features. The woman had recovered
her composure, and talked in a quiet, ra-
tional manner. She was pleasant, well-
read, and full of interesting ideas.
* * * *
It was 5 p.m., and after dark, and the
woman’s face was only a shadow when I rose
to go, without having asked for anything on
account. I asked if I might carry Billy on
my shoulder down to the stickjaw shop round
the corner of the lane. She demurred ; it
was very kind, but I would find that Billy’s
weight trebled every two yards. She knew.
I asked as a special favor. She asked me
to .wait till she put stockings on him. And
when Billy’s feet had been covered I put him
on my shoulder and trotted him down to the
stickjaw emporium, and then to the boot
shop across the way, and bought him a pair
with bright, burnished copper toes, which he


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
The Way to be Well is to Keep the Kidneys Well.
N
f Gvery
[Picture
Tells
n Story."
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And
little wonder. A woman s work, and care, and worry aie enough
to break down a much stronger constitution than is given to most
women —or men, either, for the matter of that. Ihe kidneys are
invariably the first to feel the strain. And they let their needs
be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for help ; the
cry of the sick kidneys. There s that awful dull ache away down
low m the back. Then comes sharp pains higher up, pains in
the limbs, headaches, a weary, never-rested feeling, a desire to
stay in bed in the morning—it’s all from the kidneys. Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills help the kidneys, they are made specially
to act on the kidneys. Doan’s Pills cure to stay cured. Read
these testimonies :
Two Sydney Women Cured.
Mrs. P. J. English, 120 a Phillip Street, Sydney,
says :—“ About six years ago I commenced to suffer with
kidney disease ; at times I was so bad I had to take to my
bed. I used plasters, etc., trying for a cure, but nothing
did me any good. Hearing Doan s Backache Kidney
Pills spoken of as excellent for kidney trouble lead me
to try them. They completely cured me, and during
the past three years I have been perfectly well. I can
sincerely recommend other sufferers to use them.
Mrs. T. Lewis, 156 Forbes Street, Sydney, says
“It is now seven years since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me of backache, and lam still well. I think
my lasting cure wonderful at my age —I am 81. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills have proved a blessing to me in
my old age. A young lady who visits me suffered
with her back, and I cured her with Doan’s Pills.
She is a great believer in this medicine now—the
same as I am.”
h
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2jg per bottle
(six bottles, 15/3), or
from Foster-McClei-
lan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
much preferred to the black-tipped ones.
He walked back, and I lifted him across
the muddy places till we reached the door,
where I put him on the step, banged the
knocker, and hurried off. A faint light in
the Court showed the door open, showed her
bend down over Billy, who held his feet up
alternately. Then she put her arms round
him and took him inside.
* * * *
I had a faint, indefinite idea that I was
being cajoled. But one thing I felt abso-
lutely certain of, and that was that in that
distressful period no woman who had seven
children to support could be in a position to
work off £8 worth of dead horseflesh.
Next morning Morton called in. He was
mightily pleased with my success.
“Did you find Mrs. Albyn yet?”
“Yes, found her yesterday.”
' She’s a bad ’un, that. I dursen’t go nigh
her at all. If I go round with a summons
in me pocket, dang me if she don’t just look
at me so sweet like, and them darned kids
with their angel faces comes round, and in-
stead of serving her with the summons I
alius comes away and sends her a jint or
two. They’re a domned sight too good-
looking—oh, she’s a bad ’un. You swear at
her, and scare her—l can’t; but you’re a
harder man than me, and you just bullyrag
her.”
“I’ll see you d —d first —-she’s a widow
and got seven children. Where’s your hu-
manity?”
“Mostly gone in jints, and rump-steak
when she was ill”; and he pocketed his
money and toddled out.
* * * *
Next time I called she received me gravely,
and without the rush of effusive language.
She was almost reserved, and conversation
was rather difficult, till she suddenly lifted
her eyes with a sad, expressive smile:
“I don’t know how to thank you for Billy’s
boots —it was very kind, but, but” — Then,
ivhen I saw how happy she was, I felt unut-
terable things. And again that demure,
quizzical look straight into the eyes, which
i could not interpret properly, and was
afraid of misunderstanding.
I felt a mighty longing to take her in my
arms —but had still some glimmerings of rea-
son left; and commenced to discuss the
political situation. I discussed it for two
hours, and came away once more without
having mentioned Morton’s account. Never-
theless I entered tip in his book that Mrs.
Albyn had paid 2s. 6d. on account; an entry
which moved the old butcher-man to wild
hilarity when he read it.
I felt that Mrs. Albyn was growing on me
rapidly. I began to drift up to Ardrossan
House in the evenings, but was shoo’d out
religiously at 9 p.m. I had asked her re-
peatedly to come to dinner at the Trocadero,
but she had always declined. Then I solved
it another way. I got a cab and took the
dinner to Elgin Court, and managed to get
it in without attracting a crowd either.
For once this strange woman let herself
go. With a petunia blossom in her hair,
across a French salad and burgundy I saw
her eyes—they were the tint of the topaz—
flash with the joy of life. Outside the wild
Wellington weather howled and shrieked, and
its tumult made the room cosy and delight-
ful by comparison. The children were
asleep upstairs, and there seemed to be no
one in the world but we two. Everybody
else so far away.
The fire burned red and tranquilly in the
grate. I blew a cloud of smoke towards the
ceiling, and turned to look at her. That
curious, demure, but magnetic glance came
from her eyes, and
I felt my arm round her neck, felt the
warm, delicious touch of her lips—for a mo-
ment. Then she seemed to awake from a
trance, and, wrenching herself free, fled out
of the room.
I waited an hour, but she did not come
back. Then I got my coat, hat and um-
brella. and let myself out.
* * * *
Brief as it was, that touch of her lips in-
toxicated me. I kept to myself as much as
possible for a couple of days, and tried to
recall the sensation. It had something of
the nature of opium about it, and I wanted
some more. I thought a couple of days ot
hard work might cure me, but instead it
drove me frantic, and I got hungrier and
hungrier. Seven children were a handicap,
certainly, but they were all very beautiful
children, and there were some magnificent
swindles to be worked even in gloomy, hor-
rible Wellington. I felt that the only way
to make life endurable was to marry Mrs.
iUbyn.
While I was in this frame of mind Morton
called in, just to see if I had any dollars for
him. I gave him a few, and when he had
signed the receipt he' glanced down the list
once more.
"I see you can’t do no better nor the rest
of ’em with that there beautiful she-devil —
she’s a bad ’un, she is!”
“Look here,” I said fiercely, “don t talk
about Mrs. Albyn like that. She’s a lady,
and her inability to pay should command
our sympathy.”
Morton took one quick glance at me under
his bushy eyebrows.
“Come and have a drink!” he said in a
soothing tone, and led the way to the Stag
VVith Two Heads.
When I got back to the office I carefully
counted my cash. I found that I could just
pay Mrs. Albyn’s account, so it went into the
cash book as paid, and I set the money aside
carefully. Then I made out a receipt, and
enclosed it in a nice sheet of scented paper
with a soulful request to write and let me
know when I could see her again.
This left me short, so I went out to look
for someone to fleece, and made the great
mistake of trying to make a victim of
McGuire, the solicitor. He was so stag-
gered at my monumental impudence in try-
ing to defraud him that he became a sort of
a friend. He said that a fellow with the
cheek I had would unscrew the devil’s tail
when he wasn’t looking, and pawn it.
* * * *
Next day I was down with influenza, and
my luck was right out. That was the day
when I had intended to propose to Mrs.
Albyn. and had arranged for her to fall into
my arms, and say “Yes” in a whisper, while
I breathed into her glorious back hair; and
instead of all this I lay and dozed in my
dreary lodgings, and my head seemed the
size of ten, and outside it rained miserably
and blew horribly. And Mrs. Albyn didn’t
write.
I was in bed a whole week. The first day
I was able I dashed off a long letter to her,
and waited a week for an answer. None
came. I wrote again. But she never le-
plied. Then at last, unable to stand it any
longer, I fortified myself with many strange
drinks, and, getting into a cab, drove up to
Ardrossan House, Elgin Court. The an-
cient hag who had directed me to it in the
first place, told me Mrs. Albyn had shifted
to Tinakori-road ; and she laughed a laugh
of horrible amusement. She didn’t know
the number, but it was the third house past
the poplars at the corner, on the left-hand
side. Now, Tinakori-road is an aristocratic
and expensive place, and I came away be-
wildered. I called in at the office on the
wav back, to cool my head (which still
seemed too large) against the mantel, nd
found Morton’s son awaiting me to collect
any cash.
•‘Don’t suppose you’ve got very much,
bein’ bad.”
“Well, I’ve got all Mrs. Albyn's bill, and
that’s a fair amount in itself,” I said.
“Mrs. Albyn’s” Then he stopped
suddenly and grinned all round his face.
“When did you get it?” he asked, when he
recovered the use of his countenance.
“What the devil are you grinning at?” I
demanded in a burst of passion. “I collected
it yesterday by the exercise of < pressure
which almost amounted to cruelty.”
“I ain’t grinnin’ at anything—l was
tliinkin’ of somethin’!”
Then he took the cash and got out quickly
McGuire came in immediately afterwards, to
tell me in a friendly way some new aspects
of his bad opinion about me.
“Some silly ass has taken a fit on the
stairs, I think ” he said. “A weedy youth
in a black overcoat. He’s laughing like a
fool and kicking himself.”
“That must be young Morton —I think
there’s a strain of madness in that crowd.
Look here, I’m going round to Tinakori-
road. I’ll be there the rest of the day. Just
postpone any bad language.”
* * * *
I found the third house without difficulty.
Billy, in a brand-new suit, but still wearing
the boots I bought him, was playing in a
bright garden—that is, as bright a garden
as could exist in Wellington.
I put him on my shoulder to carry him to
the door —but soon lowered him again. The
’flu’ does pull one down. He ran on in
front, and, opening the door, led me into a
gaily-furnished drawing-room.
“H’m, evidently a boarding house; not
much chance of getting the dear creature by
herself here,” I murmured to myself. Billy
was shouting “Muvver, muvver, here’s some-
body to see us.”
There was a quick light step in the hall,
and next moment she swept in. It was the
first time I’d seen her dressed properly, and
she was a dream. The sight of her was too
much. I held out my arms and stepped to-
wards her, and said, “My darling.”
Then the door opened suddenly, and a
heavy hand was laid on my collar, and the
voice of old Morton, tremulous with rage,
burst out:
“You d —d scoundrel! Take your hands
off me wife. Get outer me house.”
Then he hustled me violently down tne
front steps on to the gravel path, and fe
on me heavily. When we got up 1 atme
lor his point. He stepped back, and i wa»
too weak and shaken to follow him.
“You jest get back and square up nay
counts, young man. I’ve two minds to hat e
the law on yer, fer this outrage.’
Then he went up the steps and slammed
the door, leaving me too wrecked for words.
* * * *
At an hotel near Mrs. Albyn’s old quarters
—an hotel where I was well and unfavorably
known——l gathered information. Morton,
dissatisfied with the 2s. 6d. he had received
on account, had gone round himselt to try
and collect at least half a sovereign, and the
widow had made a bold stroke, and. had col-
lected him bodilv. What she told him about
me I don’t know, but it didn’t seem to have
been favorable. .
Anyhow, Morton denounced me round aie
town till my business fell away to nothing.
I tried to get McGuire to sue him for libel,
and pay himself out of the costs when he
collected them, but McGuire said he reckoned
it would be cheaper to pay my passage to
Sydney. ,
It was a grev, sodden day w ten 1 sailed,
nrnl tlm wind blew like an unchained devil,
and Morton’s son was in convulsions ol
mirth again on the wharf.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
An Ebb-Tide.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUT of the south, out of the hollow night,
Roareth the wind under a racing moon.
Bidding the black grotesques on a world
of white
Leap to his giant tune.
Window and door groan, and the writhen boughs
Shudder and groan, toss, and aloud complain,
Threaten, implore, clutch at the shaken house,
Lift, and are bowed again.
Hidden here in the dim, the sheltered room
No wind soundeth ; only a distant sea.
Level, rhythmic, pouring by in the gloom,
Filleth the ears of me.
Limbs relaxed, senses, importunate will.
Hushed, and all the life of me far withdrawn.
Slowly I breathe, slowly, slowlier still
Soul, thou art loosed. Begone !
Is it I, there on the narrow bed ?
Glimmering out of the shadow my white face ?
Is it I, drifting and strangely sped,
Silent by silent ways !
What is the leaping hearth-fire ruddy and warm,
Eyes that meet, hand in the clasp of hand,
What the echoing spaces of night and storm
Here in this silent land ?
Here is only I and a pulsing tide,
Only I and the spell of a spirit that knows.
Bid me no more return ! Unto thy side
Draw me at length—and close !
TASMANIA.
A. W.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
h
m
¥w
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN S’ CO.. P’ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong-
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/li, 2/9 & 4/6
ĥ
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and is the only*
speolflo in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
DINNEFORDS]
Magnesia
jm
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
' must see that
“Dinneford &Co."
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
“ eumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
Li
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
GAUTION. Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. EHO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, l/li and 2/9 per box.
Yon Know What To Expect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news: and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments I There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every ease of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected.
When Yon lfee
Beecham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you—or if you cannot sleep or you
are bilious and headachy —to know that all you require is a course of
«(ban’s pills.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels , Liver, and Kidneys,
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1%"(56 pills) $ 2/9 (168 pills).
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” carbide:.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
The'Stan (lard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in rue sine. 1596.
CURES
Austrian Blight. Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for Its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
m
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
juiuicuity in cAycqwmuuu. AaLiiilia,NervOTlsCotlghB,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR,
in n-va d by aV Chemists.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being? a curse in your borne and a nuisance to
your friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.). A harmless remedy
—can be s-iven secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call, DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 64 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
street, Perth, VV.A. [3
u]
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIAtICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
ħ
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
h
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that.has stood the test of time
'
All Chemists and Stores at i/i £ & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT ft Co., 229, Strand.
London, England
yyy-H mi .
L®JL2JLf!JSLB
ĥ
ħ
Big G
Borated Golden seal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wi th jach bot tlo
' or mailed on request.
The Enas Chemical Co.
"• • -.Ohio.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in S"\
48 hours.? m)
Each Capsule bears tbe name xV
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
1/each POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
S TORF.KEEPERS 4, roBACCWtSTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR THADEUST
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them ahd choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all; Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial, They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V. A. V. Budge rree Port
Nature's Gift.
ntAv?
PORT.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchant*,
ement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
at 19 McKILLQP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIO.


'-BRANDTS
Atmoslitf ,
Gas Machine!
Ideal
Lighting
and Cooking
by Brandt’s ATMOSLITE is
far more brilliant and effi-
cient than other illuminants
and considerably cheaper.
The machine is automatic,
and always ready.
Demonstration at Show.
Catalog-lie at
BRANDT BROS., LTD.,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
Willans & Robinson, Limited,
For ...
Electrical Generators,
Blowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
i
High Pressure
and
Mixed Pressure Steam.
AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY :
T. K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street, * Sydney. [3
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT ? Portland Cement, ein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strengt h and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, sirong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, arti>tio in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2£in. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HE BULLETIN POST CARDS— New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten. sd.
WOLFE’S
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
The Family Stimulant.
SCHNAPPS
11 SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
E)
SENTINEL
AIR COMPRESSORS
Highest Economy
and Efficiency.
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical In Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Simple and Eflicient, with large Filtering Surface.
J WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings, Mel-
bourne; and 228-50 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Ciy &Ci
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED-
Governing Directors
MEPHAN FERGUSON
ROBERT SHAND
t .
Head Office and Works:
Gordon 5t., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Central
3236
5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED-
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED, GATE SEND ON TYNE, ENGLAND.
SYDNEY.
Strong
and
ilc- ' 1 -
Durable
h
ĥ
The PHILIPS
Pressed Steel Pulleys.
Perfectly Bl _
Every Pulley Guaranteed.
Always Run True,
arge Stocks carried of all sizes.
»3
'
Sole
Agents,
_ ■ ,
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
N.S.W
KEYSTONE PORTABLE DRILLS
ħ
For Artesian Water, Mineral Prospecting, etc.
TRACTION AND NON-TRACTION.
A recent buyer writes : “ The machine (No. 5 Traction) is doing splendid work, so much so that we are ordering
another. The country we are drilling in is very hard, but we have bored as much as 51ft. in a day.”
Nos. 4 and 5 Traction Machines landing:.
Agents:
N.
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
