

DEWAR'S THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. G. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney.
—FOB—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES. BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
Herbert’s
flachine Tools.
Economy in Labor. Increased Output.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
».A« Agant; C. 0. PELANP, Bowman's Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART,
V ——
[jadleys Orient (jotel.
PIONEEO
LEATHER BELTING *V.
GUARANTSiSD.
J. Cm Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Fine Apple Brand I
h
CHUBB’S
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
2 % 4 >4 ■
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating lor the diges-
tive organs.
J
HANSENS
unket
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals.
alt.
QuaLAj
UjpfutJtdL' 4 0y
Cg t&Jls ~&€&C^
v
&
4- A*, A s*>&*>>>
JO
«V
v
.<? *
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BLNSDORPS
ĥ
ħ
L\!
W
W'S
:
M
:
-.■ ;
The one good, true roofing that will protect a
building from the storms of winter, the heat of
summer, and the many destructive agencies
that are a constant menace to a roof. Get
MALT HO ID and you get the very best.
Send for sample and further information.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c. a. Macdonald, ltd., «The Hercules” Refrig'erating Machine.
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, *=*
.
trie
as
ills.
h
Fragrant
as the
Heather.
HFLIDON SPA WATER
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water:
1
DEWHURST g HALLORAN, Ltd..
1 ■ -
The Bulletin
VoL 32.—N0. 1615. ]
[Thursday, January 26, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE TALK OF THE TOWN.
A FINE EXAMPLE OF MODERN WINDOW DRESSING.
5000 TECHNICAL BOOKS.
We are now showing a splendid selection of Beaks on Technical Subjects and Beoks for Business Men. Our
City Friends are invited to inspect our stocks as arranged under their respective subjects on the shelves.
Fcr Country Clients we shall be pleased to forward lists of books on any subject, from the Elementary Hand-
book to the complete treatise.
Advertising, Salesmanship, Accountancy, Bookkeeping, Ready Reckoners, Commercial Correspondence, Banking,
Finance atid Business Philosophy, Show Card Writing, Architecture, Building Construction, Canpentry
Painting and Sign Writing, Surveying, Engineering, Electricity, Telephony, Telegraphy (Wireless and’
Ordinary), Mining, Geology and their allied Sciences.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE SYDNEY SCHOOL OF ARTS).
THE
! THROAT!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes.’
«■»
mr am ideal remedy
JCEjG
rot)
M&tMCAI. OfttETTC
6H«UU»**o** OPOHeKT
c.hudson:
SOLD ONLV IN TINS, Price t/6.
HUDSON’S EOMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective bactericidal!)
as is creosote.”
Unlike cousrh medicines, “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
not interfere with the I%estioii; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after-meals.
So.d by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6
in Stamps.
COMPANY, LTD., 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
Cottage Pie—A. Neil Lyons (Lime). Cheerful
sketches of English country folk in the same
manner as Sixpenny Pieces and Arthur's.
Lyons is one of the brightest of the new
writers, and keeps elose to life.
True Stories of the Past —Martin Hume (Bell, per
Angus and Robertson). The late Major
Hume was an historian of Spain, and editor
of many British State papers. These stories
are drawn from Elizabethan times, two of
them on out-of-the-way subjects; the rest
sidelights on well-known episodes; all read-
able.
Four Fascinating Frenchwomen —Mrs. Bearne
(Lockley Library). The lives of the Corntesse
de Flauhaut, Duchesse de Duras, Duchesse de
Berry and Priticesse Mathilde Bonaparte,
liberally padded.
For amusement only :
The Revolt at Roskelly's —William Caine (Green-
ing).
The Siege of the Seven Suitors —Meredith Nichol-
son (G. Robertson and Co.).
Moliero
Brander Matthews states in the preface to
Moliere: his Life and his Works (Sydney
Book Club) that, nearly forty years ago, he
hoped that he might one day be able to
write a life of Moliere. His Study of the
Drama , which appeared last year, and an
earlier book on the French Dramatists of the
19th Century, proved his fitness for the task.
In tracing the career of Jean Baptiste
Poquelin, alias Molibre, Matthews has
avoided the quicksands of conjecture and
kept to the main road of fact wherever
it has been visible. It is, however, in his
view of the development of Moliere’s genius
and in his estimate of the plays and their
place in literature that Matthews has ren-
dered the best service to English readers.
His book supersedes its predecessors of the
same kind (such as Chatfield-Taylor’s), and
is likely to last long as a fine piece of
criticism.
Moliere began by giving the spectators
what they had been accustomed to enjoy. A
long training as actor in the provinces
taught him that the public preferred the
humorous to the serious drama. When he
wrote comedies for his own company he kept
the peculiarities of the actors in view, and
never wrote above the heads of average men
and women. He borrowed liberally, as
Shakespeare did, and on taking an episode
from one of Cyrano de Bergerac’s farces, he
justified the theft with a lordly phrase : “ I
take my own where I find it.” Maeterlinck
has imitated him in that respect in Mary Mag-
dalene—after asking and being refused per-
mission to appropriate an idea of Paul Heyse’s.
Though Moliere owed much to forgotten
French farce writers, to Spanish dramatists,
and the authors of the Italian comedy-of-
masks, he was more original than any
dramatist except Shakespeare.
Much might be quoted from this book,
which has been read with pleasure. A
passage from Matthews’ comparison of
Moliere with Shakespeare will serve :
Less myriad-minded than Shakespeare, less
lyric, and less poetic, lacking the depth and the
width of the English dramatist, dying early before
his tragic possibilities had a chance to unfold
themselves, Moliere is more completely the
master of comedy. He is a more conscious and
a more-conscientious artist in his structure. He
has more absolutely attained the ideal of that
high comedy which is the picture of society and
the revelation of humanity in its larger rela-'
tions. Better than Shakespeare does he Succeed
in achieving “the imitation of life, the mirror
of manners, the image of truth”—to borrow
that phrase of Cicero’s which echoes through
Renaissance criticism. That he, rather than
Shakespeare, should have most richly expressed
himself in comedy, is a strange thing, since
Matthew Arnold, takingAhe hint from Sainte-
Beuve, was plainly right in saying that “Shake-
speare has more joy than Moliere, more assur-
ance, and more peace.” Perhaps Moliere’s humor
flowers out of his melancholy, and his satire out of
his sadness. Whatever their obscure roots, the
humor is there in his plays, and the satire also,
and, in addition, the sheer fun which brings
irresistible laughter.
Balzac
One of Balzac’s notebooks, that which he
called “ the great park of my ideas,” is to be
published shortly, with notes by Jacques
Crepet. The book (Pensdes, Sujets, Frag-
mens) will be worth reading. These are a
few of the ideas thrown out hot from the
smithy of Balzac’s brain :
In the world, and in Paris,' a man
must carry his pedestal with him.
To doubt everything and to doubt nothing—in
both cases one betrays the same defect.
“ They say ” and “ Perhaps ” are the two ushers
that precede a lie.
A mineral is a corpse ; it is the last product of
a vanished life, a departed force.
Genius has big ears—on the inside.
Everyone who thinks strongly raises a scandal.
Remorse is the virtue of the weak. It springs
from fear.
Space, darkness, terror—three great sources of
poetry.
Profundity comes from the reader’s intelligence
and not from the thought expressed. A book is
less an effect than a cause.
There are authors who are not viviparous.
Virtue’s sentinel is work.
* * * *
Was there ever such a literary worker as
Balzac '? pis average working day consisted
of 12 hours, and he often worked 18 hours
a day. In 20 years he produced the 96 works
which form the Comedie Humaine besides six
dramas, 30 Contes Drdlatiques, and over 300
short articles, etc. This list excludes the
mass of ’prentice work done before he was 30.
■w * * *
The extraordinary personality of the man
makes him a fine subject for the biographer,
and many accounts have appeared in french.
As the bulk of Balzac’s letters must now
have been published, the full story of his life
can be told, and for English readers Frederick
Lawton has compiled a serviceable biography
—Balzac (Grant Richards).
Balzac, “the obstacle breaker,” as he
justly called himself, is in many ways more
interesting than his novels. His career was
one of bursts of tremendous work, wild specu-
lations, a running fight with duns, bailiffs
and spiteful critics, and one long, drawn-out,
exalted but exhausting love-aflair which was
hardly interrupted by a number of minor,
less exalted affaires.
Danton’s Statue of Balzac.
During a spell of work he would see no
one, read no letters, eat little, sip coffee
continuously, and refresh himself by lying
for an hour at a time in his bath.
After one such orgy of work lie called on
Werdet, his publisher and Boswell. His
clothes were shabby, his face gaunt and
yellow, and he dragged Werdet with him to
the most expensive restaurant in Paris :
The place was full of guests, and those who
were in proximity to the table where the two new-
comers sat down were astounded' to see the fol-
lowing menu ordered and practically consumed
by one man (since Werdet, being on diet, took
only soup and a little chicken): A hundred
oysters, 12 chops, a young duck, a pair of rdast
partridges, a sole, hors d’oeuvre, sweets, fruit
(more than a dozen pears being swallowed),
choice wines, coffee, liqueurs. Never since
Rabelais’ or perhaps Louis XlV.’s time had such
a gargantuan appetite been witnessed.
Then Balzac borrowed some money from
Werdet to fee the waiter, and, handing the
bill to the man, said.: “Tell the cashier I
am M. Honore de Balzac.” The faithful
Werdet squared the bill next day; and,
before that evening was over, advanced
money for a flutter at a gambling saloon,
and a late visit to the theatre, where Balzac
laughed so loudly that he was compelled to
leave.
Only the giants could do such things. Bal-
zac, a giant in intellect, was short and tough
in body. Danton’s comic statue gives a fair
idea of the man in his prime, and introduces
the walking stick which was the novelist’s
mascot.
Anatole France
The first volume of Anatole France’s La
Vie Litteraire has been translated into Eng-
lish by A. W. Evans. If you have not read
the original you may now become acquainted
with Anatole in his most personal work, and
follow the adventures of a pleasant, ironic
book-lover’s soul with such interesting per-
sonages as Hamlet, Dumas fils, De Maupas-
sant, the Goncourts, Bismarck, Balzac,
Marie Bashkirtseft', and a number of others.
The book is prefaced by that-famous letter
to the editor of the Tempt, in which Anatole
defined the good critic' to be -one who relates
the adventures of his own soul among master-
pieces.
To be quite frank, the critic Ought to say :
“ Gentlemen, lam going to spc.-ik about myself
apropos of Shakespeare, apropos 'of Racine or of
Rascal or of Goethe.” Ttie occasion at least is
Excellent enough.
# * * *
That is what France does, more or less,
in these articles—not so thorough in their
criticism as Sainte Beuve’s, but more lively.
In wricing of the younger Dumas as a
moralist, he stops to address the dramatist
in this fashion •
Your father certainly was a prodigious man.
He came like a good giant with his hands full of
toys for us poor children. He was gay and he was
good, and he consoled men by telling them delight-
ful stories which never came to an end. But you
have been able to give your speech a seriousness
his never had : he amused me and you taught me.
But the greatest of the Dumas’ is neither
he nor you; it is your grandfather, the son
of the negress, General Alexandre Dumas, of La
Pailletefie, the conqueror of the St. Bernard
and Mt. Oenis, the hero of Brixen. He offered
his life sixty times to France, he was admired by
Bonaparte, and he died a poor man. Such an
existence is a masterpiece with which there is
nothing to be compared.
Of De Maupassant, he says :
He possesses the .three great qualities of the
French writer, first—clearness j then again—
clearness ; and, lastly—clearness. He has the
feeling of proportion and order which is the feel-
ing of our race. . . . He is the great painter of the
human grimace.
Of Zola’s La Terre:
I will not .-certainly deny his detestable fame.
No one before him had raised so lofty a pile of
ordure. That is his monument, and its greatness
cannot be disputed.
There are kinder judgments on Zola; but
lie resented with bitterness the libels on
French virtue which were uttered in the
naturalistic novels. France preferred the
idealist like George Sand to the realist ; he
admired Dickens' and rejoiced in mad Mr.
Dick of David (Jopperfield , and put in a word
“ On behalf of Latin.”
That is the Anatole France of the first
series, On Life and Letters. It would have
been a good tiling if the dates on which these
essays appeared in the Temps were given,' for
Anatole has changed since then.
The appearance of all his works in English
is an enterprise for which publisher Lane is
to be praised; but the books are in an
unhandy size, and the printing is sometimes
very bad, as in the case of the present volume.
Cheap French Fiction
“ Greek,” says Dr. Johnson, “is like old
lace—each gets as much of it as he can ” ;
and the comparison will stretch to French
novels. But 3s. 6d. (the bookseller’s trans-
lation of 3.50 fr.), as a rule, buys only one,
so Artheme Fayard, whose Modern-Biblio-
theque of reprints of modern novels, reduces
the price to 95 centimes sewed, or 1.50 fr.
bound, deserves well of the collector. Each
volume is printed in comfortable type on a
rOy. Bvo page, and lias 50 or more illustra-
tions of varying merit. The series includes
a few already procurable in Flammarion’s
handy Auteurs Gelebfes ; but most are here
cheapened for the first time. Some 80 have
appeared to date: Banes— Le jardin de
Berenice and Du sang de la volupte et de la
mort; Bourget— Gruelle enigme and Andre
Cornells; Barbey d’Aurevilly— Les diabo-
liques (one story lacking) ; Lucien Muhlfeld,
Tristan Bernard, Marcel Prevost, Riehepin,
Octave Mirbeau, Ferdinand Fabre, Jules
Renard, De Regnier, Pierre Louys and others
are represented. * One of the series, La
legende de Vaigle, by G. d’Esparbes, can be
bought in Sydney (Angus and Robertson) ; it
contains a list complete to March, 1910, and
a new volume appears each month.
And now comes Calmann Levy, striving,
perhaps, to atone for his broken-type issues
of Balzac and Baudelaire, with a Nouvelle
Collection lllustree, similar in format and
price to Fayard’s, but with more promising
illustrations. He, too, reprints some oft
reprinted, Murger’s Scenes de la vie de Boheme
and Le pays latin; George Sand’s Bile et lui,
etc. The discerning collector, however, will
be grateful for Halevy— Lafamille Cardinal
(illustrations by Guillaume) ; De Regnier—
Les vacances d’unjeune homme sage; Villiers
de Tlsle Adam— Contes cruels (his Amour
supreme and Histoires insolites may be had in
the recently issued Derniers contes, Afmmre
de France) ; Jules Renard— Poil de Carotte,
with worthy drawings by Poulbot ; Marcelle
Tinayre— Helle.
The same publisher’s Balzac (Edition du
Centenaire) at 60c., is disappointing. Some
volumes are cleanly printed; others, like
Histoire de Treize and Illusions Perdues seem
merely a smudged re-impression of the plates
of the edition of 1884 on spongy paper.
Worth noting is Flammarion’s announce-
ment of the Memoires of Casanova, six
volumes, at 95c., or 1'75 bound, per vol.
Neither Fayard nor Levy trouble the reader
with editorial matter, and in their lists no
warning star marks such as are suitable for
the young person—and some are.
Nelson, favorably known for his cheap re-
issues of English books, adds a brief appre-
ciation to each volume of his new library of
French originals and French translations
from other literatures. Announcements in-
clude Bourgpt, Maeterlinck, About, an an-
thology of French verse, Tolstoy —Anna
Karenine , and Andrew Lang’s Maid of
France ; Daudet’s Lettres demon moulin and
Balzac —La peau de chagrin, Le cure de Tours
and Colonel Ghabert (in one volume) are to
hand, and are excellent value at Is. net.
Daudet’s editor, Charles Sarolea, of Edin-
burgh University, grows lyrical. The Lettres
have “la fraieheur, la spontaneite, le naturel,
la verve, la facilite et ce charme indefinis-
sable qui se degage, comme la senteur du
thym et du romarin, de toute l’oeuvre de
Daudet. . . . C’est le chant de la cigale k
l’aube, c’est la source limpide jaillissant de la
montagno.” The book may not be all these,
but it contains the Ballades en prose, those
interesting animals, the Pope’s mule and M.
Seguin’s goat, and a warning to poets to
repent betimes and seek a steady job in
L’homme a, la d’or.
Henri MazeL writes sensibly on Balzac.
Don’t complain if a duchess says “Hein,
petit?” nor compare his arisbos with Feuil-
let’s fashion-plates ; keep them within their
frame, the great Balzac world where “ils
plongent dans cette realite ou le porteur
d’un grand nom peut avoir moins bonne
fagon que son impeccable domestique, et oh
un due et pair ne se croit pas deshonore s’il
dit tu a sa femme devant des etrangers. . . .
A la fin on arrive chez Balzac par avoir
approehe tout lo monde.”
V. V. V.
Anatole France makes an affecting plea
for the love of books in his preface to La
Vie Litteraire:
Let us love books in the way that the lover
described' by the poet loved her pain. Let us
love them, for they cost us dear enough. Let ns
love them, for we are dying because of them, Yes,
books are killing us. Believe me when I tell you
this, for I adore them ; I long since gave myself
unreservedly to them. Books are killing us. "
* * * *
See how they come ! The Athencewm
stated recently that; of over 700 readers in
average attendance at the British Museum,
it is estimated that nearly 500 are profes-
sional makers of books or copyists, and
others dependent on them, who work every
day in the Museum.
* * » *
In an age when every man is good for at
least one book, every day must have its dog.
If all else fails, you can have a shy at
Shakespeare or Napoleon ; hut there are thou-
sands of obscure dead dogs deserving of
attention. The University of Chicago an-
nounces a hook which should be more inter-
esting than any treatise on the Boots of
Bonaparte or Shakespeare’s views on Golf.
It is JElkanah Settle: His Life and Works,
by F. 0. Brown. Settle was a poetlet
whom Dryden lashed, and was once preferred
to Dryden. If anyone reads Pope nowadays,
he will find Settle pinned to the wall of the
Dunce’s Gallery by one line :
. . . the proud scene was o’er
But lived in Settle’s numbers one day more.
* * « *
Octave Mirbe.au, the discoverer of Maeter-
linck, announces another “find" in the
preface to Marie-Claire (Fasquelle, Paris).
It is an autobiography .in the form of a novel,
and has been written by a poor servant girl
named Marguerite Audoux in the intervals
of her work. The story depends almost
entirely upon its style, which is regarded
by French reviewers aa extraordinarily fine.
Marie-Claire has made a sensation in Paris ;
but has not yet reached Sydney.
* * * *
Frank Harris criticises Bernard Shaw’s
play, The Dark Lady of the Sonnets, in “ The
Academy ” (3/12/TO), and claims that Shaw
has taken part of his discoveries in The Man
Shakespeare without acknowledgment :
Shakespeare, the solitary student, who loved
the “ life removed,” and cared nothing for the
fleeting shows of this world, is presented by
Messrs. Shaw and Barker as a dapper courtier;
Shakespeare, the lord of language, the greatest
master of words the world has known, is pictured
as going about with a notebook—“a snapper-
up ” of his own superb phrases from clown and
queen: Shakespeare, the world-poet, cribbing
cadences from a warder ! That is Mr. Shaw’s
sole original contribution in his play to our know-
ledge.


a
ANTHONY HORDERNS' 20 DAYS SALE.
FIRST DAY:
Friday, Jan. 27
Send for Sale Catalogue.
Posted Free
on Application.
LAST DAY:
Saturday, Feb. IS
Manchester Marvels.
Horrockses’ White Calico.
Usual Reduced
Price to
per yd. per doz.
s. d.
4 4 h
5 3
6 3
6 11
7 11
8 11
9 3
5 11
6 11
7 11
8 11
26 pcs. No. 20, 36in. H’vy Medium 0 7
15 pcs. No. 24, 36in. ~ ... 0 8
16 pcs. No. 28, 36in 0 9£
17 pcs. No. 32, 36in. ~ ... 0 10|
Horrockses’ Madapolam.
193 pcs. SLI 36in 0 7
153 pcs. SL2 36in 0 7k
105 pcs. SL3 36in 0 8
33 pcs. SL4 36in 0 9
63 pcs. SLS 36in ... 0 10
45 pcs. SL6 36in 0 11
128 pcs. SLI 42in 0 7k
67 pcs. SL3 42in 0 9
34 pcs. SLS 42in 0 11
Crewdson’s White Calico.
6 3
6 6
7 0
7 11
8 11
9 9
6 6
7 11
9 9
STRIPED GREY TURKISH TOWELS.
Usual Reduced
HEMSTITCHED TURKISH TOWELS.
50 doz. No. 719 Is. lid. Is. 7£d.
Summer Dress Tweeds.
Usual Reduced
Price to
per yd. per yd.
10 pcs. 40in. Black & White Broken s. d. s. d.
Checks 111 16
12 pcs. 42in. Flaked Assorted Shades 211 2 3
10 pcs. 44in. Carmelite Tweed ... 211 2 3
16 pcs. 44in. Panama Tweed ... 3 9 2 9
12 pcs. 42in. Navy Blue Striped
Mohair 2 6 111
12 pcs. 42in. Spot Lustre, Navy
Green Reseda 2 3 111
16 pcs. 42in. Cream Silk Stripe
Khantona 11 0 10J
12 pcs. 42in. Cream Silk Stripe
Khantona 16 1 1£
Summer Blousings.
30 pcs. 30in. French Delaines, Cream
Grounds 1 4| 0 9J
60 pcs. 30in. French Delaines, Light
and Dark Grounds, Spots,
Stripes, Bordered Floral Designs 1 6 1 1J
16 pcs. 30in. Cream Ground Taffeta,
Colored Stripes ... 1 0 10J
10 pcs. 30in. Henley Stripe Blous-
ings, Neutral Shades 1 4J 0 11J
20 pcs. 30in. Fancy Check and Stripe
Blousings 111 l 4£
16 pcs. 30in. Cream Ground Wool
Twills, Colored Stripes 18 14
A WORD TO THE WISE.
Our London House advises as follows, under date Dec. 2, 1910 :
“ Cotton is high now, anti any increase in trade would tend to send
cloth up to famine prices. We have been able to cover to advantage,
and our Australian friends will reap the reward during the next Sale.
“ We have shipped per s.s. Somerset a CLEARING LINE of WHITE
SHEETINGS in quantities as had before, and which are 15 per cent.
UNDER CURRENT RATES. Another purchase shibped to arrive in
time for the Sale is a line of TOWELS, bought 17 $ per cent. BELOW
THE MARKET PRICE."
Following OUR USUAL CUSTOM, we PASS ON to our CUSTOMERS
the FULL ADVANTAGE of these SPOT CASH PURCHASES, which
means that the PRICES will be far and away below what would
OTHERWISE be POSSIBLE.
To prevent any misapprehension, we make the straightforward
announcement that a reduction has not been made in the prices of all the
goods stocked at the New Palace Emporium, but over ten thousand lines
have been lowered, as set out in the SALE CATALOGUE, which contains
no bogus announcements or misleading statements. OVER HALF A
MILLION BIG BARGAINS are offered at
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Sale Prices,
which are renowned all over Australia as being the Lowest in the Land.
Our friends and patrons are advised not to miss this opportunity of
securing a selection of the best goods manufactured at prices that are the
Lowest in the Land.
Self-Colored Box Blouses.
Usual Reduced
Box Robes.
These Charming Box Rohes are Exclusive
Goods. No two alike. Each Rohe is Elaborately
Embroidered with Self-Colored Silk.
Usual price, 755. Reduced to 555.
Usual price, 575. 6d. Reduced to 395. 6d.
Robe Lengths.
Highest Class of Dress Fabrics.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
s. d. 8. d.
12in. Crepe Effects ... ... ea. 48 0 32 6
14in. Shot Effects ea. 50 0 32 6
18in. Crepe de Chene Effects... ea. 52 6 33 6
18in. Eolienne Effects ea. 57 6 34 6
33in. Ninon Effects ea. 63 0 34 11
Silk Sacrificed.
500yds. 36in. Black Taffeta ... yd. 4 3 3 6
200yds. 40in. Black Chiffon Taffeta '4 9 4 0
478yds. 40in. Black Chiffon Taffeta 6 3 5 3
250yds. 21|in. Black Satin Mer-
veilleux yd. 2 8 2 4
375yds. 21£in. Black Satin Mer-
veilleux ..' yd. 3 0 2 8
Genuine Thermos Flasks.
Reduced to
White Metal, Fixed Glass, quart size ... 18s.
Black Composition case (re-fillable), pint
size ... ' ... 18s.
Black Composition Case (re-fillable), quart
size 255.
Motor Lamps of Renown.
Bleriot British-made Motor,Driving Lamps,
fitted with Optical Condenser, Bin, diam.
front glass, total depth fifin., white metal
reflectors —
Usual Price. Reduced to
Polished Brass (per pair) ... £6 £5 10s.
Niekelplated (per pair) ... £6los. £6
Bleriot Acetylene Generator, to supply gas
for two lamps for five hours—
Polished Brass £2 £ll7s. fid.
Niekelplated ... £2 7s. 6d. £2 ss.
Eastern Roll-Top Desks.
In Golden Oak, 52in. long, 48in. high, 30in.
deep,; fitted inside with pigeon-holes, small
drawers, etc. ; three drawers in right-hand and
four drawers in left-hand pedestals, with long
drawer over kneehole, two extension leaves and
patent automatic locks.
Offered during the Sale £7 17s. 6d.
As above (single pedestal), 45in. long £6 12s. 6d.
Furnish at Sale Prices.
Bedroom Bargains.
Oak Bedroom Suite, consisting of 3ft. 6in.
Wardrobe, with bevelled mirror indoor, new
design; Dressing Table, with bevelled land-
scape mirror and ample drawer space ; Wash-
stand, with enclosed cupboard, rouge marble
top and art tile back, towel rails on ends.
Usual price, £l3 17s. 6d. : reduced to
£lll7s. 6d.
Easy Chairs Reduced.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
s. d. s. d.
Easy Chairs, full size, in good
quality cretonne ... 37 6 33 0
(A good range of patterns to select
from.)
Easy Chairs, in strong Woollen
Tapestry 45 0 38 0
Easy Chairs, in best Pegamoid... 67 6 59 6
Easy Chairs, in saddle bag and
Utrecht velvet 70 0 59 6
Easy Chairs, in saddle bag and
• f Utrecht velvet, superior quality,
with spring edge £5/7/6 95 0
Occasional Chairs, upholstered
in silk tapestry, in a variety of
Chippendale and Sheraton de-
signs, AT REDUCED PRICES.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
TEAS FOR ALL TASTES.
Expertly Blended and Celebrated for
FLAVOR AND QUALITY.
GOOD FAMILY BLEND, White Label, Is. per lb.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
s. d. s. d.
51b. tin tin 4 9 ... 4 3
101 b. tin ... 9 3 ... 8 6
201 b. tin 18 0 ... 16 6
PALACE BLEND of China and Ceylon Teas, -
Yellow Label, Is. 3d. per lb.
51b. tin tin 6 0 ... 5 6
101 b. tin 11 6 ... 10 6
201 b. tin 22 0 ... 20 0
UNIVERSAL BLEND of Fine China and Ceylon
Teas, Blue Label, Is. 6d. per lb.
51b. tin tin 7 0 ... 6 3
101 b. tin 13 6 ... 12 0
201 b. tin 26 6 ... 24 0
OUR SPECIALTY BLEND of Finest Indian, China
and Ceylon Teas, Red Label, Is. 9d. per lb.
51b. tin tin 8 6 ... 7 9
101 b. tin 16 0 ... 14 6
201 b. tin 31 0 ... 28 0
TRIUMPH BLEND of Choicest Indian, China and
Ceylon Teas, Purple Label, 2s. per lb.
51b. tin tin 9 6 ... 8 9
101 b. tin 18 0 ... 16 6
201 b. tin 35 0 ... 32 0
EXTRA SPECIAL BLEND, Purple Label,
2s. per lb.
51b. tin tin 11 3 ... 10 6
101 b. tin 22 0 ... 20 0
201 b. tin 42 6 ... 39 0
TEAS FOR LARGE BUYERS.
The following Teas should appeal to Dealers,
Hotelkeepers and other large Buyers.
per lb.
Ceylon Broken Orange Pekoe, 201 b., 20s. ;
501 b. 4-chest ... .... ... 0 11
Ceylon Fine Orange Pekoe, 201 b., 235. 4d. ;
511 b. 4-chest ... ... 1 1
Ceylon Choice Orange Pekoe, 201 b. ;
265. Bd.; 501 b. 4-chest ... ... 1 3
Ceylon Extra Choice Orange Pekoe, 201 b.,
30s. ; 491 b. 4-chest ... ... ... 1 5
Ceylon Extra Choice Orange Pekoe, 201 b.
tin, 325. 6d. ; 571 b. 4-chest ... ... 1 7
China Tea.
Fine First Crop Panyong, per f-chest, 521 b. 0 74
Fine First Crop Panyong, per 201 b. tin,
15s. ; 371 b. 4-chest ... ... ... 0 8
Fine First Crop Panyong, per 371 b. 4-chest 0 9
Choice First Crop Panyong, per 201 b. tin.
20s. ; 531 b. f-chest ... ... ... 0 11
Extra Choice First Crop Panyong, per
201 b. tin, 255. ; 371 b. 4-chest ... ... 1 2
Special Blend, Ceylon and China Tea.
201 b. tin, 165.; 501 b. 4-chest ... ... 0 9
CARPETS CUT.
Axminster Carpets Artistic and
Luxurious.
A favorable opportunity to purchase this
celebrated Floor-covering at Reduced
Prices.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
s. d. s. d.
2000 yds. Axminster Carpet,
Imperial quality, last
season’s designs, to be
cleared below cost price
yd. 511 ... 4 6
1500yds. Axminster Carpet, Im-
perial quality, all new sea-
son’s designs, in the latest
colorings, with borders to
match yd. 511 ... 5 3
1000yds. Axminster Carpet,
extra heavy quality, all the
latest designs and color-
ings, with borders to match
yd. 8 6 ... 5 9
750yds. Wilton Pile Carpet,
extra fine quality, last sea-
son’s patterns, to be cleared
below cost price ... yd. 8 0 ... 5 9
600yds. Wilton Pile Carpet,
best quality, new season’s
designs yd. 8 0 ... 6 9
&
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better 4 Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious ?
h
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Audito
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
ws will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S. 1
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Ups
m
M
taf:
M
W&
m
.*•■ eg
•fei
m
w?..
m
mm
<‘4
m
m
M
•s*
m
The most beautiful scenery has
an added charm when viewed
from the comfortable eminence
of a Brooks Saddle.
The rigours of the roughest
road are softened to
the rider on Brooks
O/ all Dealers.
Brooks
AUSTRAL AERATED WATER Machines
m
There are ten times as many Austral Aerated
Water Machines in use to-day as any other make.
The Austral Machine is used by all the leading
Hospitals in both Sydney and Melbourne.
Being manufactured here, duplicate parts can
be obtained without delay.
From 250 to 300 dozen of superior quality
Aerated Waters can be made daily with these
machines.
All machines are fitted with the turnover
syruping rack.
Our latest machine is a distinct advance in con-
struction and usefulness on any other machine. on
this market.
Write for illustrated and descriptive catalogue.
Manufacturers
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
3 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or or.
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
, of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand iST- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors —The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.0.,
Adrian Knox, E«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. VV. APPERLY, Secretary
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
rp IIOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
I its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
X chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their lirst appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N.S.W. Branch Office s 5*2 George Street, Sydney.
Miss
Amy
Willard,
who gives this
CLEMENTS
TONIC
testimony,
m
is well known to Sydney and Melbourne audiences as one of the
leads of the Willoughby Comedy Co. (Meynell & Gunn’s attrac=
tions). She writes to ailing women thus
“CLEHENTS TONIC LTD.
“On account of Clements Tonic being used largely by the theatrical
as well as other professions, and through its being highly recommended
to me by one of the leading actors upon the Australian stage, I secured
and used it for several weeks. I was more than gratified, as the result
was a general improvement in soundness of nerve, natural and keen
appetite, sweet refreshing sleep, which was all the more welcome because,
often through continuous study, I suffered from insomnia and broken rest.
“To women, especially those weak-nerved, run-down in health,
anaemic, with poor appetite and gene al decline of physical strength, I
consider Clements Tonic a valuable medicine, for it gives appetite and
natural sleep, and is creative of sound and permanent health.
“(Signed) AMY WILLARD.”
The testimony above is simply a message to women in ill-health that Clements Tonic is a reliever of many of
the ills from which they suffer. If used periodically, it keeps the system in order and makes Sick or Nervous
H'eadaohe, Insomnia or Broken Best, Poor Appetite, Weakness, Morbidness, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and
Constipation things of the past. This is gratifying, for who does not weary of the pain that produces
melancholy, the suffering that creates despair—often penalties of neglect of natural needs of the body, the
refusal to keep the stomaoh healthy, the nerves strong, the heart sound, and the blood pure by the use of
this unquestionably splendid medicine. The medicine that gives health, gives life—and that medicine is
Clements Tonic. Get it, and get well. Every household should have it.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in the Commonwealth.


1
A Family
Medicine
Without
Alcohol
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic
and alterative, free from alcohol.
What is a “ tonic ” ? A medicine
that imparts strength or tone; a
medicine that builds up, gives
vigor and power. What is an
“ alterative ” ? A medicine that
alters or changes unhealthy ac-
tion to healthy action. Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla does all this with-
out stimulation. Ask your doc-
tor if a family medicine, like
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, is not vastly
better without alcohol than
with it.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
m
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
YOUR EYES!
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-.
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St.
Or by post from
, Melbourne.
Varicose
Veins
and Ulcers
Can be Permanently CURED
without the aid of the
Surgeon’s Knife.
IF YOU suffer from Varicose Veins
in the legs you should send at once
for full particulars of the wonderful
Vecesy Method of Treat-
ment. The discovery of this splendid
method of curing Varicose Veins ranks
amongst the scientific achievements of the
past decade and its wonderful properties
has given relief and a cure to hundreds of
sufferers who had despaired of getting even
permanent relief. The method is simple,
efficacious, and reliable, and is essentially
a home treatment and does not take you
away from your daily duties or require you
to lay up while under treatment. Amongst
the successful cures accomplished are
many in which the patient had endured
the ulcers and veins for over twenty years
without being able to obtain permanent
relief.
CONSULTATION
FREE.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, Vari-
cose Ulcers or Eczema, CALLan inter-
view our chief consultant. He will explain
the treatment to you and advise you free
of charge. If you cannot call,
send 2d. stamp for free illustrated book
giving full particulars.
Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. 1005 B
THE VECSEY VARIX--ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney
(corner Castlereagh. and Market■ Streets).
ĥ
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it bv the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for "BONNINGTON’S”
1/6 &L 2/6.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
BY APPOINTMENT TO
ħ
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC.
BOV R I L
THE MIGHTY ENERGISER
stimulates, nourishes and sustains without digestive efforts.
The Power of Beef is in BOVRIL.
IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk I
It contains all the necessary constit-
uents in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch, and is therefore
, suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
■ It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infant Foods containing-Starch.
_. „ N °, Cook injr No added Milk.
Of all Chemists. Wholesale & Retail Stores '
Samples: 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.w!
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Eng.
jOjr.
B
! Allens
(USA.)
Mexican
O' A Lit NO
USA
MEXICAN
OJAIifIUJ
$
C)K
FOR.
Grey Ha
Walnut
«stain
*/° r
Grey Hair
A young face loeks
old if it is surrounded
with grey, faded or
dead-looking hair. Dr.
B. Allen’s U. S. A.
Mexican Walnut Stain
will make from 10
to 20 years’ differ-
ence in your ap-
pearance if you are
grey or prematurely
grey. It is perfectly
harmless and easy to
apply, and will quick-
ly restore the hair to
the natural shade of
youth. Contains no
Lead, Mercury, Silver or Sulphur.
None genuine without the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley.
All Chemists.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
"ISlllllliiiim
!!§!§
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence Sr.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rijrg - .
Aus, Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Asrents.
RUPTURE
Do vou suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
With each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
ste«=l bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Tested Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THE DEMON OF DRINK. B Sr%SS,
Drunkenness, the curse of so many homes, has for
years baffled scientists, but now a remedy has been
found. Dr. Shaw’s Anti-Alcohol (Registered by the
Govts, of Vic. and N.S.W.)isa certain cure—is harm-
less, and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Gall. Dr. Shaw’s Establish-
ments, 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hav
Street, Perth, W.A. m
For RHEUMATISM
GOICRVST
2OT7miWTWTWFTWIWra^
and all BLOOD DISORDERS.
i
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Town and Country.
I have seen the city’s glories,
Walked the windings of its streets,
I have hearkened to the stories
Of its leading people’s feats—
Give me back the grasslands lonely
Where for days I’ve listened only
To galahs and parrakeets !
I have seen grey steeples peeping
Through the misty morning air,
And the gloomy churches sleeping
In dull hollows here and there—
Give me back the scrubland hazes
And the labyrinthine mazes
Of looped tendrils everywhere !
City lives are specked with gladness,
But the specks are far between ;
What shines brightest is the madness
That inspires each moving scene—
Give me back the tranquil rivers,
Give me back, 0 Best of Givers,
What I was and where I’ve been !
N.S.W.
J. O’BYRNE.
The Just Man’s Lot.
The sun shines down on the portly Just, and it
shines on the Unjust, too,
And when it is hot,.it’s hot, whatever the sweat-
ing Unjust may do;
However they harry the large fat fly, and mop at
their brows, and swear,
I hey ve got to toil through the terrible day, if a
good job keeps ’em there.
But however the great Unjust may broil in the
high sun’s splendid heat,
However the hum of flies keeps on, and the spoil-
ing of butcher’s meat,
Ihe portly Just is a 000 l man still, and his
blubber fails not at all
As he sits and pulls at a dark cigar in the shade of
his cool back-hall.
The sun shines down on the Just—and on the
toiling Unjust, all hot;
And the Just man blesses the pleasing coolth of
his own kind, earthly lot;
And the Unjust works in the sun, and H—l is
readied for him right now,
As he swings his pick in the blazing heat, with
sweat on his Unjust brow.
The sun shines down on the Just, and the Just
sits tight in his darkened room.
He calls his boy for a soda squash in a voice of
triumphant gloom, ,
Then he thinks of the aged man at work outside
on the hard, hot road,
And murmurs “To blazes with Wages Boards !”
and “ The dashed Trades Hall be blowed ! ’
The sun shines down on the great Unjust, on the
toiler, infirm and old,
And the Just man pities the poor old chap, and
rattles his coins of gold.
And he curses the Wages Boards once more, with
a long, warm, ling’ring curse,
And the sun still shines on the warm Unjust,, and
the dust makes things still worse
For the tired Unjust, who bullocks along on his
broad and awful way,
And ne d certainly just as soon be Just on a real
warm, blazing day,
When there is shade for the portly Just and he
dwells in a pleasant grot,
While the Unjust worries with bricks and such,
and his life is a long, long blot.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
Compensation.
“ In the bottom pit of Hades
Where the brimstone flowers are blue,
And the eyes of naughty ladies
Twinkle through the fiery stew,
Where the worst of men is paid his
Long, and last, and lingering due,
There, when you become a shade, is
Left a little hole for you—
You may grin, you'll find it’s true.”
That’s the gist of what he told me,
That’s the cream of what he said,
And his weighty accents hold me
While I turn it o’er in bed—
Oh, my sins are large and red.
Yes, as bright as a carnation
Are the dreadful things I’ve done,
But I think there’s compensation
In the place that wowsers shun—•
bomething that the lost have won.
Blazing sulphur is unpleasant,
I will readily admit;
But there are some things at present
Pretty well as bad as it—
Little hells my hands have lit.
Down amid the blues and yellows
Of the hottest flames of all,
There should be some decent fellows :
Grilling within easy call
Underneath the fiery pall.
And it seems to me that after
All, in Hell there must be found
Something of the love and laughter
That make this old earth go round,
Though the Devil hold us bound.
Care can never more come near us,
Toil will never hunt us down ;
We’ll have many friends to cheer us
While the fiendkins baste us brown—
’Twill be just as good as town.
In the bottom pit of Hades
Brimstone flowers are red and blue,
Where so many dainty ladies
Warm their feet in fiery stew.
There, when you become a shade, is
Left a little hole for you,
When the wowser person’s said his
Lingering, long and last adieu—
-1 hut s the best , he cun t come through.
NiS.W.
D. W. M.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
■* i i * » ' ~ mTP
S.O-V’*'* V’ » V V.' 1 Tl *
Uski *. i. •*. Y. A A i> V > •■
CLOSED AS COUCH
'■%Z~
es
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of of der; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding*
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. • in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained trom
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY.
Cheap Edition of “ON THE HOP!
Price 2/6.
Postage —N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
Dwyer’s High-Grade
Vehicles
are a Delight to the Eye
and a Pleasure to ride in.
h
Awarded Over
600 First Prizes.
Factories
CROWN STREET, WOLLONGONG.
.144-6 KING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agrents for THE• ACH,NERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Pull particulars and prices on application.
HEALTHFULi ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
"OUR JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere,
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS ” Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD,, Pitt St, Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 * Grand Prize St Louis 1904
KALODEIMAB!
IB PREPARATIONS
F.UOLFF S SOHH, Knrlsruhe nnd London
Kaloderma Jelly
prepared with glycerine & honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable * efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knlotfermn Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap, the leading soap for softening fisimproving the skin.
Knlodermn Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiietpowder. Jef
Rnlodermn Shaulns Soup
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
ABDVLLA
CIGARETTES.
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the market.
n refined luxury at a popular price. jcf Jc/' Jcf
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
Don’t fudge by appearances. Most Cigar-
ettes look alike, but wait until you try an
ABDULLA!
TURKISH—EGYPTIAN—VIRGINIAN.
PALGETUC9LT?
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA.
£
tell
THE TREASURE HOUSE 7
BEAUTIFUL RINGS
■
Here, in a wonderful variety of exclusive designs, will be
found hundreds of DRESS and ENGAGEMENT RINGS
of dazzling beauty, revealing Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds,
Rubies, Sapphires, Turquoises, Opals, Tourmalines, Aqua-
marines and other precious stones, in superb patterns, executed
by most skilful artists, bringing genuinely good Rings within
the reach of many, as well as offering the costlier stones at
prices hitherto impossible.
LADIES’ HALF-HOOP RINGS.
Beautiful Solid iBct. Gold, Hand-made, Half-Hoop Rings, set
with 5 fine White Diamonds. Price £5 ss.
Exquisite Solid iBct. Gold, Hand-carved, Half-Hoop Ring, set
with 5 specially-selected Diamonds, £l2 10s. Others up
to £75.
Magnificent Solid iBct. Gold, Hand-made Ring, set with 5 very
& finest-selected quality Pigeon-blood color Rubies, £35.
Elegant Solid iBct. Gold, Hand-carved, HalfiHoop Ring, set
very fine specially-selected Brilliant Cut Diamonds,
£3O.
Ladies’ Marquise and other Rings.
Marquise Ring, set with .1 Emerald and 16 Diamonds, absolutely
perfect, £25.
Marquise Ring, prettily set with 1 Sapphire and 14 White
Diamonds —a leading value- £l4 10s.
Set with 1 Ruby and 20 fine Diamonds, is a charming Marquise
Ring, for £2l.
Marquise Ring, with I large Opal and 20 Diamonds, skilfully
set, £l7 10s.
LADIES’ CROSSOVER RINGS.
Set with 7 White Diamonds and 2 Rubies, very pretty Crossover
Ring, £l5 10s.
Handsome Crossover Ring, set with 2 Diamonds and I Pearl,
£52 10s.
Crossover Ring, set with 2 Diamonds and I Emerald, fine
quality, superior setting, £4O.
Set with 2 fine White Diamonds and I Whole Pearl, a charming
Crossover Ring, for £2O.
LADIES’ CLUSTER RINGS.
A Very Handsome Cluster Ring, 3 fine quality Emeralds, set
round with 36 Diamonds, one of the “Treasure House’s’
very best values, £45.
Fine Diamond and Ruby Square Set Cluster Ring, an attractive
style and attractive value, £l4 10s.
Cluster Ring, set with I beautiful Opal and 18 pure White
Diamonds, £35.
Cluster Rings, set with fine quality Diamonds, a very wide
assortment, all. splendid value, £7 10s., £8 10s.,
10 Guineas, £l7 10s. to £25.
Write for...
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson Co.
(Australia), Ltd., Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1615.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1911.
Pkiok 6d.
iff I SUER
HANGING THINGS UP FOR THE CORONATION.
BOY: “Where’s the boss? Where’s the Prime Minister? Where’s anybody? The enemy’s landing!”
THE FACE: “The boss! Oh, he’ll be back in six months or so, after the Coronation.”
BOY: “Well, where’s the Ministry? Where’s Parliament?”
THE FACE: “Parliament? I dunno! It’s somewhere about. It’ll meet when the boss conies back after the Coronation’s over.”
BOY: “- -!!...?-!!„


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
l’rinted and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Go.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES s* Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO s arisen mans.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin 0/Tice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any jiart of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivi columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draion —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at Ufi per doz. nett.
Copies of Thk Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London. W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetoion;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Forman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U. S. A. —1 sserlisA ., Seattle, Washington; International
Neivs Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Ear ft. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6sin. x lUin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
jffteTfyxzllelztfi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1911.
THE OLD PROTECTION AND THE NEW.
So far, the New Protection is only a name or a
theory in Australia. The High Court ruled it
out as beyond the existing powers of the Com-
monwealth, and the States, though they have
done a certain amount in the way of indus-
trial legislation, have done it in a fashion so dis-
united and fragmentary' that much of its benefit
has been lost. Until the people decide to hand
over the entire control of industrial affairs to the
Commonwealth the situation is anomalous, and
even if all the State Premiers had the best inten-
tions—-instead of which some of them have the
very worst—it could not be otherwise. The Feder-
ation fixes the duty on any given article,
the idea being to make the impost so high
as to ensure that the Australian worker will
be adequately protected against outside com-
petition. The Protection required is largely
based on the rate of Australian wages, and when
there are six rates of Australian wages it is hard
to find any base in particular. It would be bad
enough if one authority fixed the’wages and
another the duty which ought to bear a definite
relation to the wages, but when half a dozen
authorities make confusion over the wages the
position is infinitely worse. The principle of the
New Protection is to protect the good employer
and refuse Protection to the sweater, and in order
to simplify the situation it is proposed that
the Australian Parliament shall have power
to make dead sure that there shall be no sweater
at all. At present the rain falls alike on the just
and the unjust; duties are uniform, while wages and
conditions prevent a shameful aspect of variety ;
and in order to protect the employer in one State
who pays good rates under a AVages Board award
it is necessary to bestow equal benefits on his rival
in another State who does nothing of the sort.
The Federal Labor party attaches so much impor-
tance to this matter that it refuses to rectify the
tariff till the New Protection and the Old can be
run in double harness. That may signify that, if
the people don’t entrust the Commonwealth next
April with control of industrial legislation, the
tariff will remain indefinitely in its present
miserable condition—or, again, it may not. Any-
how, the position is almost as bad as it can be,
and unless industrial matters are transferred to
the Commonwealth it is likely to be worse.
* * ♦ *
The Old Protection has become quite inade-
quate in some of the States, and even if the New
Protection doesn’t arrive, tariff revision is an
urgent matter. In New South Wales, for ex-
ample, where industrial legislation has gone further
than in most of the States, the wages of factory
employees have gone up in a remarkable fashion.
In 1935 the average all round (women, girls and
boys included) was £7l 18s. 6d. per head per
annum ;in 1909 the average was £B3 9s. 6d. Up
to a certaint point, high wages mean cheap pro-
duction, but only up to a certain point. In many
industries the educated and intelligent white man
earning £3 per week turns out better and cheaper
goods than the nigger at ss. per week, because
the first is a man who can make the best use of
costly L and intricate labor-saving machinery,
while the latter is little more than a
beast of burden. But it has never been
proved that a white artisan at £l2 per
week would necessarily turn out four times
as much work, or turn out work four times
as good, as the one at £3. It is darkly sus-
pected that there is some point at which increase
of wages begins to shove up the cost of the goods
produced, and then foreign products begin to
climb over an inadequate tariff barrier, and a
slump ensues in local industry, and high Wages
change suddenly to no wages at all. It is a simple
problem of a horse and a fence. The man who
supplies the fence doesn’t know the size or leap-
ing power of the horse, and the man who supplies
the horse is not responsible for the height of the
fence. The results are sometimes surprising.
**•*«
The manufactures of N.S.W. have grown in a
wonderful fashion since the advent of the first
Federal tariff, but other things have grown out of
proportion. In the year 1909 the value of ;the
output of N.S.W. factories—taking value to mean
the amount added by manufacturing to the price
of the raw material used—was £14,535,702, an
increase of £902,367 on the previous year’s figures.
The value of all local production—pastoral, agri-
cultural, mining, dairying, forestry, fishing,
manufacturing, poultry-keeping, bee-keeping,
rabbiting, etc. —was set down at £58,956,000, an
increase of £2,813,000 over the previous year.
Meanwhile, foreign imports stood at £20,888,019,
which was £1,059,533 more than the figure for
1908—a result which might possibly please the
Freetrader, but which strikes a Protectionist as
wholly unsatisfactory, especially as it was accom-
panied by a fall of £835,920 in the value
of foreign exports. The position suggests that
imports are increasing out of all reason as com-
pared with local production. Also the rise of
wages is eating up the profits of the manufacturer
very fast. In 1909, as already mentioned, the manu-
facturer made £14,535,762 gross—that was the
difference between the estimated value of his raw
material and the estimated value of his finished
article. The amount was £1,054,910 more than
he made (gross) in 1907. But in the same period
the wages paid by the manufacturer increased by
£1,014,410, so he was really only £40,500 better off
in 1909 than he was two years previously. Then
he had to employ £1,174,952 worth more
plant and machinery in 1909 than in 1907, and
when he had paid for these new implements of
trade lie was £1,134,452 worse off, though doing a
larger business. Also, the £1,174,952 didn’t any-
thing like express the full amount of his invest-
ments in new plant; probably £500,000 worth of
old plant was scrapped in the two years, and, if
so, his new purchases amounted to £1,674,952;
and in fhat case he was £1,634,452 worse off in
plain actual cash. And if he had to pay interest
on the value of more buildings and larger
stocks, then his position was worse still.
On the Statistician’s figures it would seem
that artisans’ wages have gone up very
considerably, that manufacturers’ profits have
gone down with a great shock, that the cost
of production has risen to a point at which the in-
adequacy of the Australian Customs duties begins
to be very conspicuous, so that the foreign im-
porter has begun to climb over the tariff wall with
greatly renewed energy, and that these movements
can’t continue much longer without a breakage of
some kind.
* * * *
In short, so far as N.S.W. is concerned, the Old
Protection wants looking after quite as much as
the New. Yet N.S.W. requires the New Pro-
tection much more than some of its neighbors.
Despite many failures, it has been more success-
ful than the average in pushing up wages to a fair
level. Unless the control of industrial legislation
is handed over to the Commonwealth, so that the
Federal authority can fix wages ,all round, it will
soon have to cut its rates in order to compete with
the lower-wage States of tire Commonwealth.
And unless it gets a better tariff it will sqon have
to cut its rates in order to compete with lower
wage countries outside the Commonwealth. This
is, of course, assuming that there is no sudden and
wholly unlooked-for improvement in local methods
and machinery to counterbalance the increased
wages and the inadequate tariff. On the available
figures the recent increase in manufacturei-s’ pro-
fits has been eaten up twice over by the expansion
of the wages sheet and the necessity for acquiring
new machinery. If the importer was being badly
knbcked out the manufacturer might not' mind ;
he could look forward' to a vast increase of busi-
ness and reckon on effecting new economies by
working on a larger scale. But the present tariff
isn’t knocking the importer out. There was never
a year in the State’s history when he looked less
like being knocked out.
THE WORRIES OF BULL.
“ Horse Marine” writes:—
The outlook in Europe is a subject of especially de-
pressed language these days. In a quiet way things are
happening. If Germany, as everybody appears to take
for granted, proposes to argue a point with Britain for
the boss position at sea, it is to be assumed that it will do
so as soon as its fleet and the fleets of its allies are strong
enough to fight with a good chance of success, and if
Japan passes, in 1915, from the British to the German
alliance, in consideration of being promised certain valu-
able plunder in the Pacific, then the date of the trouble
is quite easily fixed. To delay after things srfe ready
would be mere waste of money and would give an open-
ing for that unchancy affair, the chapter of accidents, to
intervene.
* * * *
There are several things which it was commonly ex-
pected that Germany would do when the Lime for action
was near, and within the last few months Germany seems
to have been doing them. That country wants to see the
narrow entrances to the Baltic fortified. Then, should it
prove advisable to occupy Denmark with a rush, it can
use the ready-made batteries to shut out hostile vessels
which might want to get in or to shut in hostile vessels
which might want to get out. At the same time
it could deal such an enemy as Britain a severe
blow by cutting off its commerce with Sweden, Den- .
mark, Germany and Northern Russia. Denmark s
hurriedly commenced to fortify the Baltic gates, and it
darklv alleged that it has done this upon a broad hint
that "that assistance is the price of its independence.
Belgium has obligingly allowed certain new strategic
German railways to be connected with its lines, so tnei<
is now a straight road for German troops to the unforti-
fied northern frontier of France. In view of this faint hut
obvious insinuation, it is supposed that trance will see
the wisdom of lying low in the day of trouble.
Holland has started to fortify, not its land frontier
against the Germans, but its sea-coast against possible
interference from Britain, so that if the German occupa-
tion of Holland seems necessary there will be no dim-
cultv in the way of the occupation, and every'difficulty in
the way of the arrival of assistance. This is also said to
have been done as the result of a German ultimatum.
Possibly Holland, as the result of this complaisance, will
be allowed to become one of the autonomous Geiman
States instead of being practically’ obliterated like old
dead Hanover. The only possible inference seems to be
that Germany has some great move in view, or that the
Kaiser’s ear is worse than usual. Perhaps the Kaiser s
ear is worse than usual. If it is responsible in any way
for recent doings it will be the second organ of its kind
which has made history. Jenkins's ear set two con-
tinents ablaze in 1738.
* * * *
Few things are more remarkable at this time of anxiety’
than the slump in the diplomatic reputation of the late
Kowakd VII. When he climbed on the throne Britain,
save for its Jap alliance, was isolated and allegedly friend-
less. He wandered around Europe, beaming genially upon
foreign potentates, and the great Anglo-Franco-Russian
entente arose. It was described as a masterpiece of
statesmanship and an effective reply to the lnple
Alliance. Unfortunately, the Triple Alliance is a casi-
iron agreement that, under certain conditions, three (four
if Turkey has joined, and five if Japan comes in) fleets
and armies will stand together as one man; the entente
is, or was, a mere friendly’ casual tendency on the part oi
three rulers to have a drink together when they n o.
Russia’s army is a damaged implement, and its fleet is
non-existent, thanks to Japan and the British support of
Japan. France wouldn’t take risks on land against a
combination which can put 7,000,0*00 soldiers in the held
for the sake of an ally like Britain, which could only’ help
with 100,000 at most, and couldn’t help very rapidly even
with them. A while ago the Triple Alliance decided to
take a risk, and see if Edward Vll.’s famous entente really’
amounted to anything. So Austria annexed two Turkish
provinces. The combine showed its teeth and asked the
entente if it had anything to say on the subject. The
loose symposium of three rulers who drink affably
together hastened to reply that it hadn’t a remark hidden
about it anywhere. And then and there the cobweb of
Edward Vll.’s wonderful diplomacy’ tore up and blew
away, and the theory that there was a force in Europe
prepared to argue points with the Triple Alliance perished
on the spot.
♦ It * *
The situation of Britain is peculiar. It has no force
worth mentioning save on the sea, and a fleet can’t climb
trees, neither is it much good in a mountainous country’.
And never was a tree-climbing fleet more badly* wanted,
for Britain believes it will presently be up against a com-
bination which can shut it off in one sudden act, and with-
out its ships being able to fire a gun, from the commerce of
Northern Russia (possibly all Russia), Sweden, Denmark,
Germany, Holland, Belgium, Austria, Italy, and perhaps
Turkey’, Bulgaria, Roumania and Servia, in addition to
raising such Sheol on the sea as hasn’t been raised on that
unstable element for 105 years. But the combination
need not raise Sheol on the sea except in its own way and
at its own time, for it lias fortified harbors in which to
take refuge —in fact, if it occupies Denmark it will have
the whole Baltic Sea for a fortified harbor. It is not a
cheerful outlook ; even the most optimistic section
of the Bull nation admits that much. The best
as well as the worst part of the aspect lies in
the character of the Kaiser. All liis life he has
had the reputation of a man who was always on the
brink of doing something tremendous. Yet he has never-
done anything tremendous. There has been no war
in his time, though there has been a greater abund-
ance of roar and preparation than ever before. But even
the loudest roarer may do something at last, and the
spectacle of Kaiser William, in his declining years,
Chased into battle by his own vociferations, is a grievous
possibility of the near future. Meanwhile people have
almost forgotten Edward VII. and the entente which was
to work such wonders. When he passed out, a notable
sycophant arose to state that he was no loss, for his suc-
cessor was an even more tremendous potentate, and
would shortly take his place in history as George the
Strong. But George the Strong hasn’t risen on the
horizon yet. The occasion on which he struck his sub-
jects hardest was when a wild and ill-judged cleric rose
to defend him against an alleged charge of excessive
drinking.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Kidston and State Frights.
William Kidston, of Queensland, has rushed to
the front as leader of the State Frights party in
the matter of the Federal Refeiendutn, and
Queensland is being especially urged to vote
“No.” Consider ng its position, one would
rather expect from Queensland the loudest “Yes”
in the category, but State Frightism is a curious
institution and finds arguments in unexpected
places. In the present case, it starts with the
statement that the proposed transfer of industrial
and other matters to the care of the Common
wealth is a step in the direction of unification,
and so far State Frights is unexpectedly truthful.
The more matters are transferred to the Federal
authority the nearer unification approaches.
Then it is pointed out that Queensland is already
a great deal too big to be efficiently managed
from one centre, and to make a State which would
be nearly five times as big as Queensland by
directing the affairs of all Australia from one
centre would be an absurdity. That is also quite
true. And having got this far the State Frights
party stops short and howls at large. The other
aspect of the case —an aspect that the State
Frights people don’t even mention—is that
Queensland badly needs to be cut up into at
least three States, and the so-called Unification
party is the only one which proposes to do this.
As a matter of fact, there is no Unification party,
though there is a Unification and Reconstruction
party. There is no madman in Australia who
proposes to run all the country’s affairs from Mel-
bourne or Yassberra or any other single place,
and the solemn warnings to beware of that alleged
person and his machinations are mere froth
and pretence. Unification is necessary for a
moment, so that there may be a central
authority, with power handed to it by the
people to cut up unwieldy places like Queens-
land into manageable areas, and thus inci-
dentally to diminish the unwieldy authority
of angry individuals like William Kidston;
but the power is only wanted for a moment. By
way of a side issue—it is rather a misfortune for
the State Frights cause that Kidston should have
become its most violent figurehead. Up in the
Far North even the unification lie seems a poor
argument. When the people there are told that
an affirmative vote at the Referendum will tend
to centralise authority in far-off Canberra, they
are likely to reply that Canberra doesn’t look
much further off than Brisbane anyhow. State
Rights strike them chiefly as the right of Brisbane
to hang on to a North which wants to
be a State on its own account, but which
has never had a chance because Brisbane wanted
so many chances for itself. The North doesn’t
care 'for State Rights very much ; it doesn’t care
for Kidston very much; and it cares very little
for Brisbane. When it is asked to rise up as one
man, and vote for keeping the largest possible
amount of political authority centred in a town
some 2000 miles away because, if some of it leaked
off to a town a little further away, the result would
be too terrible for words, it will probably reply
that the argument is a mere splitting of hairs.
A Capital with a Confidently Estimated
Kainfall.
A great official or semi-official effort was made
last week to give the Canberra Federal capital
site that leg-up which it so badly requires. The
glad news was published on the authority of the
Federal Government Meteorologist, and was to
this effect: —
It is confidently estimated that the average rainfall
there [9ll the Cotter catchment area] cannot be less than
front 40 to 60 inches per annum, because Kiandra, which
is only a few miles distant, has an average of 6h inches
per annum,, and is exposed to the same rain-bearing
winds, and has the additional disadvantage of being some
500 to 1500 feet lower than many of the peaks which
serve as condensing orprecipitating agents for the Cotter
River.
A good many persons would like further informa-
tion on these points. There is certainly scope for
further information. Queanbeyan is the nearest
observing station to Canberra —in fact, it is only
lialf-an-hour’s drive from one place to the other.
And at Queanbeyan, according to the records
published up to 1908 by the Government
Meteorologist’s own department, the aver-
age rainfall, over a long series of years,
was 28 inches. Cooma is close to Kiandra,
and is likewise not far from the capital site.
Yet, unless the Federal Meteorologist’s De-
partment is a very great fraud, Cooma has an
average annual rainfall of only about 19 inches.
Cooma is south of Canberra, and Queanbeyan lies
to the east. Immediately to the north is Yass,
with a scanty annual downpour of 24 inches.
These matters have a tendency to prove that places
may be fairly close to Kiandra and yet get no-
thing like its 64-inch rainfall. In any case, there is
a range of mountains between Kiandra and Can-
berra, and the waters which come down from
Kiandra—a phenomenal sort of town situated
some 4640 ft. above sea level—don’t flow towards
Canberra or anywhere near it; they go south-
easterly past the rejected site at Dalgety. And
even if they went to perdition instead of to
Dalgety it wouldn’t in the least alter the facts
that the Federal Commissioners who inspected
the place declared emphatically that the Cotter was
not a sufficient source of supply for the city; and
that the Sydney Telegraph’s fishing expert,
when recently giving instructions to his
readers as to where their prey was to
be caught, blurted out the unpleasant fact
that the Cotter isn’t a river at all, but a mere
“chain of waterholes.” Also, if it had a rainfall
of not less than 40 or 60 inches per annum to feed
it, the Cotter should be about the same size as the
Snowy, which carries the waters of Kiandra and
depends on the same kind of a downpour ; yet
when the Federal Statistician published a list of
the rivers of Australia (Official Year Book for
1909, pages 67 to 77), he described the Snowy as a
river 265 miles long, and he didn’t even think the
Cotter worth a mention. He enumerated other
little tributaries of the Murrumbidgee only 35 miles
in length—things like Adelong Creek and Billa-
bong Creek; but he passed the Cotter by as not
in the same class with even these. Possibly it is
for these reasons that the official report above-
quoted dodges in such agile fashion round the
question, and gives a comforting sort of impres-
sion without staking anybody’s official reputation
on the matter. “ It is confidently estimated ” that
the rainfall will be something tremendous ; but it
isn’t stated definitely that the Department supplies
either the confidence or the estimate, and there is
no plain, simple affidavit from any old inhabitant
who really knows the Upper Cotter that the rain-
fall is tremendous or even half of tremendous.
There is something grotesque about the idea of
starting to build the capital of a whole continent
in a place where the only way to make out a case
for a decent supply of moisture is to fall back on
a “confident estimate.”
♦
The Damn and the Faint Praise.
To those who know something of the gentle art
of damning with faint praise, it is quite evident
that the Tory papers have not yet given up all
hope of a Black North. They don’t openly advo-
cate it, for White Australian sentiment is strong
enough to make that an unprofitable line of busi-
ness. Instead, they preach the White Australia
doctrine with an under-current of regret at the
thought that such a splendid ideal—they are solid
cm the point that it is a splendid ideal—may yet
prove quite impossible. They almost weep at
the possible impossibility of the splendid ideal.
Also, they preach the doctrine of White
Australia a great deal more frequently
than the real White Australia papers do, appar-
ently in order that every time they may drop
in the insinuation that it may be only a
dream. Their point is that the evidence is all
against it, yet it is Australia’s duty to bear up and
tight for the great cause, however hopeless it may
be. They suggest the commander who addresses
his troops before the battle telling them they
haven’t a ghost or semblance of a hope ; but that
they are going to be defeated in a noble cause,
and they will look mighty picturesque when they
are dead. Looking through a heap of cuttings on
this subject the writer comes across this from the
Sydney Telegraph (13/1/T1)
If the Commonwealth Parliament and Government
can solve the problem of the white occupation of the
Territory, a similar occupation of the tropical portions of
Queensland and West Australia will present no insuper-
able difficulty. The first question to be answered is :
Can the white races live and flourish there for generation
after generation? What is demanded by the White Aus-
tralia policy is something which is a great deal more than
is to be discovered in the tropical world to-day. . . .
Broadly, the tropics are a band of human color round the
earth. There are only minute specks of white in it. So
that a dense white occupation of .North Australia will be
a new thing. History does not help us to believe that we
shall accomplish our wish. Nor is there any country in the
world to-day to which we can point and say : “ We will
repeat that success.” The suggestion of the actual set-
tlement of countries is that Nature has intended that the
tropical territories shall be the everlasting heritage of
the colored peoples. A mere suggestion, however, may
he disregarded. There may be no iron law at the back of
it. Nature certainly does not encourage the white occu-
pation of the Northern Territory ; but has an absolute
prohibition been issued? Men who know the Territory
say that it possesses a great population-sustaining capa-
bility. Millions could live there if the climate would let
them. The climate would let Asiatics live there. As to
the white races, the testimony of residents and visitors
is conflicting. It is certain that a proportion of white
men can keep their health and do pretty well
everything that has to be done in any indus-
try. But what proportion? . . . Can white men
grow cotton and other tropical products? Dense
occupation will largely depend on tropical agriculture.
But what of the women and children? It is possible to-
day to find some women and children in North Australia
who are as healthy-looking and ai patently as happy as
any women and children in the S- • th. But there is also
much testimony to the effect 1 .at other women and
children cannot stand the climate. ... Whether the truth
as to the practicability of white colonisation can be got
at otherwise than by experience is not easy to say.
Suppose that thorough and impartial inquiry justifies


the hope that white settlement of the Northern Terri-
tory is not impossible, etc.
It is a typical sort of yarn. In all its lengthy
catalogue of “ifs” and “ands” there are two
especially notable features. In the first place,
there is a careful avoidance of any allusion to the
fact that the white occupation of tropical Aus-
tralia is quite unlike any other such episode in
the world’s history. Elsewhere the white man
has gone to the tropics to find a great
nigger population, uncleaned and undrained
nigger cities, and all manner of nigger diseases.
Then, because of the abundance of nigger labor,
he has settled down to be a loafing employer or
overseer or slave-owner. In Northern Aus-
tralia there are no great colored nations, no
specific native diseases, and no unwholesome
native cities ; and the white man has gone north
as a strenuous worker, not as a mere loafer or
boss. Therefore the case is unique, and none of
the historical precedents of Asia, Africa or
America applies worth a copper. That is one
point which the Tory paper carefully ignores.
Another point is that, in the only case
on earth which parallels that of the
Northern Territory—the case of Queensland —
the white man has done very well, up to now. The
white race of tropical Queensland is in its third
generation, and the birth-rate is still good, the
death-rate is amazingly low, the people are full of
energy, the women are as good-looking as the
average, and the children are such as any folk
might be proud of. Queensland is an example to
the point—an example of the world’s one attempt
to establish a large population of purely white
workers in the tropics ; and its success is an indica-
tion that there are equally good prospects before
the Territory and before tropical Westralia.
Therefore the black labor papers which praise
with faint damns the idea of a White North, care-
fully avoid all mention of the success of Queens-
land. It is the only place worth mentioning in
such an argument, and probably that is why it is
left out.
The Next "War, Fisher, Immigration and
Some Other Matters.
From “The Pariah,” a man who knows “the
East
So Europe reckons that the next great Asiatic war is in
sight, and, incidentally, that is supposed to provide Aus-
tralia with some breathing time. Well, I don’t think it
is ; and two of the best authorities on “ the East,” SlEMS-
sen (B. L. Putnam Wkale) and George Morrison, seem to
think the same. China will submit to Japanese depreda-
tions in Manchuria because bitter experience has taught
China to bide its time. Japan is deadly anxious to pre-
cipitate a war with China, because it knows that, if China’s
military affairs progress in the next 15 years as they have
in the past 12, Nippon will be the Chinese for mud. So
Nippon wants to fight before the Dragon has left its
corner. He knows, too, that the Chinese are good,
patient haters, and have many old scores to settle.
But the settling-day is not yet, says China. Early in
1908 the Jap just failed to bring about a war. We in “ the
East” thought that a mix-up was certain. Then in
opposition to national feeling the Wai-pu-wu hacked
down, accepted Japan’s disgraceful terms, and paid a
totally disproportionate indemnity. That was all—
except that the Tatsu Maru 11. incident went down
against Japan’s account, and the people themselves in-
stituted the far-reaching boycott which hit Japanese
trade to the tune of £6,500,000 annually. The opinion which
obtained was that China was holding off for a future big
final war with Japan. Japan knows this, and sees sore
trouble ahead unless it can force China's band. __ The
Manchurian grab is about its heaviest card. But China
holds the ace—a patience to which none can see the limit.
If China fought at present it would be hopelessly de-
feated, and the Japanese would call for a crushing in-
demnity, which they would, no doubt, use in their
schemes for a move towards Australia. The Chinese
refusal of hostilities will leave Japan’s hands free to
make trouble elsewhere, while the peaceful invasion of
Korea and Manchuria goes evenly on. In this case
“ elsewhere” means Australia, and in the 20 years or so
that must elapse before his Asiatic rival seriously
troubles him, Japan can make itself very secure in
Australia.
Australia has an embryo navy, a baby defence force, a
toy rifle factory alleged to be capable of turning out
15,000 rifles yearly, and an ammunition factory that
might be able to make about one-tenth of the cart-
ridges necessary in real trouble. Then, too, we have
a magnificent, undefended but easily fortified port within
15 days’ steam of Japan. Back of that harbor, and on
both sides of it, stretches good country which responsible
persons declare to be capable of supporting a dense popu-
lation. That harbor and that country is the Common-
wealth’s very own property*, and the Conimonwealth’s
greatest danger in its present unoccupied state.
The blame rests solely with the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment if the property is unused and the danger unchecked.
But, despite the urgency, Fisher, like most Australian
politicians, improves upon the Romans’ TempUS fugit,
by saying, “The time is not ripe,” or “Time is tripe,” or
something thickheaded that sounds like that.
The north-to-south railway must be built. Why not
make this fact a means of attracting settlers—and get-
ting the railway built quickly, too? Advertise in Aus-
tralia first and then abroad for men to work—say for two
or three years—on the construction, pay them a wage
that would suffice for actual needs, and bank the
balance. (This is done in the Australian navy.) Close
to the line, alternate blocks of 640 acres could be re-
served for free selection by these men on the expiry of
their contracts. Let the blocks be 66- or 99-year lease-
hold. A movement like this would attract the younger
men and in time they would bring their sweet-
hearts along and set up immigration bureaus of the best
sort. Once settlement was established, there would be —
or could be, if the business was sympathetically handled
—a rush of oversea immigration that would resemble an
invasion. He fights best who has something to fight for,
and these settlers would be a formidable barrier to any
invaders.
But unless something is quickly done by the Common-
wealth to fill up the North, the next war will probably be
a scattered, desultory scrap in the Southern Pacific.
Nippon’s well-armed troops will have a sort of picnic war
against the scattered Australians, half of whom will have
no rifles, while half of those that hkve will be reduced to
using them as clubs owing to a scarcity of ammunition.
4
The Law of Brown.
The law in Victoria continues to make itself at
times unaccountably unpleasant, and at other
times unaccountably pleasant at the instance of
J. DrysdAle Brown, Attorney-General. What
Mr. Brown can do in the way of ordering abor-
tive prosecutions with full limelight effects was
illustrated in the Harper case and in the cases of
the railway servants who were brought to court
over the Richmond smash. What the same Mr.
Brown can do in the other direction is shown
in a case tried at Hamilton (Vic.) a while
ago. A couple of young ruffiians were
found guilty of an almost murderous as-
sault on a Chinese. According to a J.B. who
dealt with the matter, the prisoners procured a
beer bottle wherewith to smash the Chinaman,
and but for their youth they would have been con-
victed of inflicting grievous bodily harm, instead
of being treated as mere common assaulters. For
this they were sentenced to three months’im-
prisonment, Then a wowser effort was made to
win their release. They were members of a
church football club, and the parson-president got
up a petition to J. Drysdale Brown. He, with-
out consulting the Court that passed the sentence,
and apparently without submitting the evidence
to the Governor-in-Council, ordered the release of
the two young men. Previous mention has been
made in print of Attorney-General Brown’s
assumption of supreme power over the judiciary.
Granted that many a decision, especially of the
lower Courts, ought to be upset, it is too obvious
to need arguing that a political Attorney-General
is not the tribunal that should do it. If the
judgments of Courts are to be set aside, it ought
to be done only by other Courts, working in the
daylight, and with all the strings (if there
are any strings) visible to the public. A mon-
strous and most dangerous state of things will be
produced if the idea begins to prevail that, after
a Court has spoken, it is always worth while
bringing pressure to hear upon the politician who
happens at the moment to be at the head of the
Law Office.
Liberty and “ The Daily Bloodstain.”
Australia will have to begin to talk very seri-
ously to its newspapers with regard to the blood-
stain. What happened to one Sydney manager
the other week is evidently not enough. There
had been comments on a case sub judice ; and, the
paper having been found guilty of the same thing
once before, the Chief Justice remarked coldly that
this time there would be a fine of £lOO, and next
time plain, unfurnished gaol. But, as remarked
just now, even that prospect hasn’t blighted the
poisonous habit of getting in ahead of a jury.
Only the other day a Melbourne paper, which is
as “reputable” as any in Australasia, permitted
some reporter suffering from an overdose of
criminology to indulge in a column of theorising
on a Fitzroy Gardens affair, in connection with
which a young man named (say) Smith was in
custody. In the course of its meanderings the
paper dropped remarks such as : “Thisfact, then,
favors Smith.” What construction can be put to
the use of such a word as “ favors” other than that
the paper was Weighing the pros and cons., and de-
ciding whether or not Smith should be hanged?
A still more flagrant instance appeared in Ade-
laide on January 11, when a paper headed its
report of the conclusion of a Westralian inquest
Perth Crippen Case.” There is not a reader
of that paper who does not know the circum-
stances of that notorious affair. And when the
paper labels the W.A. affair “Perth Crippen
Case,” it practically invites its readers to regard
the man who had just been committed for trial as
another Crippen. This inference is irresistible.
It is a significant fact that every one of the three
papers mentioned herein are on the political side
which shrieks for “law’n’order ” and “ the
liberty of the subject”; they are the three
principal Anti-Sosh and “Liberal” representa-
tives in the three greater cities. How they tally
their professions with their practice it would be
interesting to know. Certainly it doesn’t seem
to The Bulletin that any paper could make any
more deadly attack either on law’n’order or on
the liberty of the subject than by attempting to
root up the authority of the Courts and substitute
trial by newspaper—the newspaper whose busi-
ness it is to sell itself, which job, it seems, can Be
best done by painting a crime as black as it can
be painted and by a process of general shriek and
exaggeration.
The “Sports” of Kings.
An acute writer has remarked that it is “a strange
result of the wealth and intelligence of the modern
world to give the upper classes the pursuits of the
savage, without the necessity which is the excuse
for them. They are barbarians armed with the
complicated appliances of civilisation. Their
greatest glory is to have killed a large quantity of
big wild beasts.” The writer might .have
added “and harmless and beautiful birds.”
Just now some of the cinematograph exhi-
bitions are showing a royal “shoot,” at
which the late King and the present King,
assisted by some of the privileged set, are
the chief performing poulterers. The picture
is disgusting and revolting. The “shoot” is
simply a slaughter. There is not even the
slightest atom of sport involved. An army of
beaters absolutely drives the dazed and flurried
pheasants on to the Royal guns, which are carried
and loaded by servants. The “sportsmen” simply
take the weapons from the hands of their attend-
ants and blaze away furiously for the sheer wicked
joy of killing. The film spares the spectator no
single detail of the butchery. One picture shows
a wounded cock pheasant, a gloriously plumaged
bird, beating out its life on the ground in agony.
Then the bag, an enormous one, is displayed
in rows for the “sportsmen” to gloat over.
It is a disgraceful business altogether. Of
course, the late King and the present are no
worse than others of their family, for all kings
belong to the same family, and no king has a
country. Quite recently London newspapers
spoke of a grand battue in honor of the Czar
arranged by the Kaiser, at which 642 animals, in-
cluding wild boars, stags, deer and a few foxes
were ruthlessly slaughtered, the Czar killing the
highest number, namely 35, while the Kaiser
came a good second with 30. Ethnologists declare
that every throne in Europe (bar that of Turkey)
is filled by a representative of the Teutonic race,
and the landed gentry of Europe is composed
largely of the same stock —Goths, Lombards,
Normans, Franks, Saxons and Angles. These
fair-haired “young barbarians,” as Matthew
Arnold designates them, cricketers, deer-
stalkers or fox-hunters, but destitute of in-
tellectual tastes, are noble types of the Teutonic
race; but they are not the “ children of light.”
Dr. Taylor remarks that they preserve with
singular persistency the physical character-
istics and the mode of life of their remote
ancestors. “Field sports,” in the phrase of
Philip Hamerton, “are good for keeping
up the energy of semi-barbarous aristocracies.”
And kings, true to their barbarous origin, have
to indulge “ the pursuits of the savage, without
the necessity which is the excuse for them.” To
such the “bigbattue” is useful, inasmuch as it
enables the Czar to withstand the shock of a
“Red Sunday.” Possibly, it may be even neces-
sary. But, if so, it leaves us with no higher a
conception of the kingly job.
Ip Premier McGowen of N. S. Wales were a
mischievous imp he would get great joy out of the
way he has made the papers wriggle and squirm
over the Sydney gas monopoly. He said his
Government would certainly either clip the claws of
that monopoly or end it altogether; and the papers
were forthwith on the horns of that unpleasant
old beast, the dilemma. The Daily Telegraph
stroked the stomach of the vast body of rate-
payers by pointing out that, as the result of
the municipal gas business started by Joe
Chamberlain, at Birmingham, in 1875, that
city was not only getting its gas for from
Is. 9d. to 2s. 4d., but £71,459 of profit was
used in relief of rates in 1908-9. Then, having
stroked the stomach of the Fat landlord who
isn’t a gas shareholder, the Double Tumbler felt
that it must soothingly pat the back of the Fat
friend who is a gasshareholder, and this was done by
suggesting that “the cost of labor is higher in Aus-
tralia, and it is alsosaid that theduty on machinery,
the distance from coalfields, and various other
conditions materially increase the cost of produc-
tion as compared with that in the United King-
dom.” The cost, in fact, is so enormously greater
that the harassed co. has only been able to pay a
poor 15 per cent, steadily for so many years that
the Oldest Inhabitant can’t remember when it
was any less. And even in a recent half-year,
when the co. owned up that the coal strike
had cost it £70,000, it was still able to
pay its cheerful 15 per cent. From all
of which the hard row that the co. has to
hoe is painfully obvious. Those dreadful Aus-
tralian conditions, if attached to a protracted
earthquake or some other calamity of that kind,
might some day almost force the co. to pay only
per cent.
4
One thing can be said for O’Neil, the Fusionist
candidate for Batman (Vic.); he is as clear as mud
on the question of the coming referendum. For
instance: —
By means of the referendum it was proposed to give the
Federal Parliament power to deal with all industrial
legislation, to nationalise industries and the liquor traffic,
[O’Neil is in the soft-drink industry], and take over the
whole of the railways. The Labor party could then
please itself what wages it w'ould pay and what freight it
would charge. The people of the States would have to
pay the piper, but they would have no say in the matter.
It certainly is iniquitous. The people of the
States are obviously quite distinct and different,
and no relation whatever to the people of the
Commonwealth ; so, if the latter should take over
the railways, and should then infamously and im-
morally decide to pay high wages to the people of
the States, the disaster would be calamitous. Or
if they decided that they would pay themselves
low wages, then the language that they would use
as State electors to themselves as Commonwealth
voters would be positively disgraceful. Similarly,
if the people of the Commonwealth were to
nationalise the liquor traffic (including O’Neil’s
soft drink emporium), and thereby provide the
people of the States with pure liquor at a
moderate price, while keeping them more
sober than at present and devoting the
profits to public purposes, there can be
no manner of doubt that the said people of the
States would be utterly outraged and would
become unhinged, and would rush down a steep
place into a pool of lemonade or something. This
tendency of the people of the Commonwealth to
demoralise and dismantle the people of the States,
and vice versa, is a harassing circumstance, which
will yet get somebody tangled up. But the
Fusion should warn its young candidates to shy
off it. It is too intricate for intellects like
O’Neil’s.
The wonderful Victorian railways which the im-
ported Tait left behind him struck bedrock a
little while ago when applications for trains to
carry 6000 excursionists had to be refused. The
applicants gave several weeks’ notice. The busi-
ness would have been profitable. Nobody pro-
fessed to believe that there was anything repre-
hensible about the desire of 6000 people to get
around on the railways. Nobody supposed that
the railways were there for any other purpose
than to carry people. It was plainly the business
of the Commissioners to see that they did carry
people. Yet the work had to be refused, and
the 6000 people had to stay at home, be-
cause the Awful Cigar-Burner who has been
running things forgot to keep up the supply
of passenger carriages. And the Powlett coal
mine is working about half-time because the same
person forgot to keep up the supply of trucks.
Likewise there is a semi-famine in firewood for
the same reason. And an inspection of the great
work done at Flinders-street, Melbourne, suggests
that he almost forgot to supply a railway station.
But the supply of accidents was always good.
4
A deputation from the Sydney tram conductors
recently asked Commissioner Johnson to stop
passengers overcrowding the cars, riding on the
footboards and alighting on the wrong side. It
was explained to Johnson, what Johnson already
knew, that day and night the conductors risk
their lives in clambering along the crowded foot-
boards in search of fares, and live in a constant
state of panic, owing to passengers diving from
the wrong side of one car under the hoofs of another
car. In between risking their lives and having
heart failure, the conductors risk their jobs
through being unable to collect all the fares. In
reply Johnson said (1) that the practice of riding
on the footboards was scandalous ; but if stopped
considerable quantities of passengers would
never get on the trams ; (2) the wrong-side
business was shameful, but if it were pre-
vented, the passengers would never get off the
trams. The position therefore boils down to this :
(1) Sydney is growing fast.
(2) It can’t have more trams in the streets.
(3) It hasn’t enough trams even now.
(4) Johnson dunno.
So the western suburbanite is emptied out on to
the anthill at one end of the city, and scrambles
on to the trams that further congest the already
congested tram-traffic from the tram suburbs;
and already he carries his own life in one hand
and the conductor’s life in the other. Meantime
the urgent question of bringing the train pas-
sengers right into* the city is hung up while the
Government lays more railway lines to bring still
more ants into the city to empty them out on to
the hill at one end of it, and thus make the
scramble more furious than ever.
“ 0.K.” : Vida Goldstein has accepted the in-
vitation of the Women’s Social and Political
Union (Eng.) to go to London and talk to the
Suffragettes at the Albert Hall on March 23.
The Women of Britain are said, in the language
of the platform, to be engaged in a “great
struggle for freedom,” and Miss Goldstein pre-
sumably will be a star exhibit—the emancipated
She from Australia. But it is doubtful whether,
though she is emancipated, she will make them
much happier. Anyway, Vida Goldstein here,
like Mrs. Pankhurst there, talks of “man-made
laws” and “tyrants’ chains.” Seemingly, the
trouble is that man makes the laws, and not that
the laws are bad. Thus, sex against sex is prac-
tically the war-cry alike of the Vida who has the
vote and the Mrs. Pankhurst who hasn’t. If
men ever take that war-cry seriously, the women
may be sorry they spoke. At any rate, they may
then be dealt with summarily if they become
public nuisances. For instance, they may no
longer be permitted the awful freedom in hats
and dishonesty which they now enjoy. Man
can’t compel the weaker sex to see the humor of
its grievances; but he can, at least, prevent the
girl in the tram-car from struggling for freedom
in a hat that is an even greater outrage than the
pin she sticks through the crown of it. And he
can also have her prosecuted for perjury just as if
she were a male tyrant.
The Argus prints a heading “Married Couples
Want Employment,” in connection with the in-
flow of immigrants, and says that, unfortunately,
there is not much demand for them. The Argus
is quite wrong. For a married couple, young and
strong, with no children, a Western District
dairyman will pay 255. a week for the two (if they
won’t go for less) and found. For this the mar-
ried couple will only be required to get up at day-
light, and milk 20 cows each twice a day, seven days
a week. The wife’s spare time will be agreeably
filled in at washing the house clothes and cooking
the meals. If she is smart (as she ought to be for
the wage) she will finish washing-up at 8 p.m.,
and she has from then till bed-time to make her-
self useful and do the farmer’s wife’s sewing.
Recently a Bulletin man, with a thirst for
economic knowledge, timed a married couple for
a week, and found that the Woman had all but 98
hours to herself and the man all but 92 hours.
They didn’t get paid for the time they didn’t
work, of course, but for every other minute the
farmer paid them—2d. per hour. Admittedly,
just at present the married couple isn’t in such
demand as it is some times; for the cows are
going off, and the hired help is, therefore, liable
to be shot out into the road. Still, there is some
very good feed on some of the Western District
roads.
♦
Wheat-millers’ reports, no matter in what paper
they appear, all read like extracts from the
Lamentations of Job or Jeremiah. Business is
always bad ; profits are nil; and there is grief
everywhere. The trade is always “depressed,”
and the outlook “gloomy.” “ Owing to the high
cost of production, through wages boards,
etc.,” flour cannot be exported, as America or
Uhili or some other place undersells us. Mills are
always going to be shut down, or work half-time.
Still, there are flashes in the gloom—as when a
flour-milling co. announces a £ for £ distribution
of bonus shares, or when (from the Argus recently)
“ Mr. A. E. Watson has been appointed manager
of the new flour mill erected at Rainbow by
Mr. W. C. Thomas.” In the circumstances
this paper can’t feel as miserable, in sympathy
with the millers, as it might. On the contrary,
it begins to suspect that, in regard to these
milling reports and the wheat quotations and
market-reports, the Australian farmer has his leg
badly pulled. It is, at any rate, worth noting
that it is always the buyer of wheat who supplies
the press with information concerning the outlook.
One of the most amazing shortcomings in the
Commonwealth’s fiscal policy is its neglect to dis-
courage or prohibit the importation of eccentric
bread into this wheat-growing country. The
question of the admission of manufactured woollen
goods may be debatable for the present, though
the need for a rising scale of Protection to hasten
the perfecting of local woollen manufactures is
not questionable at all. But the fact that simple
flour-and-water foodstuffs are shipped to Aus-
tralia is as ridiculous as the local consumption of
imported jams and pickles. The admission of
frozen butter from Europe or America would not
be a greater absurdity. Years ago The Bulletin
commented on the unnatural appearance of
macaroni among the imports, this Italian form of
food being just dough with nearly all the moisture
squeezed out of it. As for the Yankee notions in
wheaten provender—granulated, shredded, or pre-
pared in the semblance of wood-shavings—they
are advertised all over the place and consumed
Australia’s Plea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If the Royal personages of suitable experience and
qualifications can be found, it is probable that each of
the great self-governing dominions will he provided with
one in due course as Governor-General. In fact, now
that the precedent has been set, it would be an invidious
distinction were it not to be followed in other cases as oc-
casion may offer. —Sydney morning paper, on the Duke
of Connaught’s appointment to be Governor-General of
Canada.
Great England, Mistress of the Seas,
Behold us on our bended knees !
Across the vast and sounding surge
We send, this humble plea to urge—
Yea ! This appeal we make to you :
Send us a Royal Duke or two I
The Canuck swells his chest with pride
And hirples o’er his prairies wide,
And japes at us and makes us wince,
For he has got a Royal Prince !
It is most galling—hurry, please,
And send us out the Proper Cheese !
Oh, England ! This is not deserved !
Our loyalty has never swerved.
Do not our welkins nightly ring
With cries to God to save the King?
Why, judged by what Australia sings,
We’ve begged off scores and scores of kings!
So grant this plea we send you now
(See, to the earth we humbly bow) ;
Take him we have away, this year,
And send us something choice—and dear :
A Prince who’ll walk about the town
In ermine and a demi-Crown !
A Prince, who’ll bring an entourage —
A Royal Coach and Royal Barge;
Gold Sticks-in-Waiting, Royal Grooms,
And Stewards of the Powder Rooms;
Chief Ti-er of the Royal Bibs,
And Menders of the Royal Nibs.
Also (for details see our Press),
We ask the boon of a Princess,
Who’ll be accompanied, of course,
By her entourage, in great force —
The Mistress of the Royal Hats,
The Master of the Royal Cats ;
The Bearer of the Royal Train,
The Holder of the Royal Cane,
The Mistress of the Royal Robes,
The Royal Cleaner of the Globes,
First Lady of the Silver Jug,
The Chief Pug-Bearer—and the pug.
For these and more we droop and pine ;
Oh, send a man of GuELPH-ie line !
The souls of all our Nicest yearn
To grovel properly, and learn
How best to kiss the Royal hem
That deigns to be on earth with them !
The Canuck’s boasting makes us wince,
For he has got a Royal Prince. ...
Oh, England ! This is not deserved !
Our loyalty has never swerved. .. .
Dear England !.. . Just a Prince ... Ah,
please !
Behold us on our bended knees !
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
in thousands of Australian homes. In fact,
they had such a hold that not until quite lately
was an Australian-born variety of baked wheat
presented, under an inevitable fancy name, to the
common sense of this nation. It appears to be
positively the most likeable and easily-digested
food of its kind, and will certainly be the fore-
runner of similar local productions if the tariff is
open to reason. Everything that can be said for
imported novelties in cooked wheat can be said
for what is manufactured and retailed in Mel-
bourne of late. Every packet is a convincing
argument in favor of absolute prohibition of the
foreign goods. Why should the Common-
wealth be left exposed to the temptation of
bread fakes faked in America when the same
things, or better, can be produced by Australian
labor from Australian raw material? Here there
is no possible question of superior “ durability,”
“style,” “finish” or what not in the imported
article. There is no pretence of specially skilled
labor or trade secret to be considered. It is a
rivalry of baked wheat with wheat baked. If the
Minister of Customs knows of anything the
matter with Australian wheat or Australian fur-
naces, let him declare it! If not, let him
hit these fakes with a brick of the right size. No
doubt he will be told that, as wheat-raisers and
flour-makers, we ought to be able to do without any
duty. And so we might—if it wasn’t for the firmly
fixed belief, induced by floods of skilful Yankee
advertising puff, that there is the usual special
virtue about the foreign fakes.
The question of the States’ duty to old-age
pensioners is raised by the case of a 72-year-old
woman which came to light in Melbourne last
week. This aged female, paralysed and utterly
helpless, was found locked in a “dark, dirty
washhouse ” on the premises of her caretaker, who
drew her unfortunate lodger’s pension of 10s. a
week for supplying her with board and lodging.
When the door of the dark washhouse was
opened to the visiting policemen—they having
been notified of the lodger’s continual moaning—
Ellen Tracey aged 72, was found “ lying in a
puddle of filth on some hard boarding on the
floor, her body being covered partly by three
torn old skirts and a bit of overcoat, all of which
were saturated with the excretions around her.”
She had no complaint of positive cruelty to make,
but “admitted that she had not been washed for
three weeks, and had been moaning with pain
because she had been lying on hard boards
in one position for an indefinite time.” The
planks she groaned upon were not even
laid evenly, and in this sort of way she had
been existing for years apparently. Her paralysis
dated back to nine years ago, since when she had
lived with the woman who drew her pension.
The old paralytic was removed to the Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum, where her bed sores, or board
sores, are being attended to. Should she happen
to die from a gangrened wound “ the police
will take prompt action.” But whether the
police do anything or not, it is up to the Old
Age Pension Department to take action for
the prevention of similar iniquities in other cases.
The State is not a District Visiting Society, but
it should at least see that its paralysed pension-
ers, who cannot report themselves to the depart-
ment, are getting fair value for its dole. Under the
present negligent system the State doesn’t know
whether its non-apparent pensioners are comfort-
ably alive or happily dead. It is commonly
known that some of the doles have been paid to
authorised collectors on account of ancients who
were dead for a long time before the fraud was
discovered ; and the Lord only knows how much
of their death was due to circumstances over
which the State should have exercised some
control.
—: ♦
The steady, all-round increase of wages in the
skilled trades is having the effect of reducing to
the vanishing point the margin between the local
manufacturer and the importer. Said a big Mel-
bourne machinery manufacturer the other day :
Agricultural machinery is still being imported. . . .
The Customs entries under this head for 1910 were
£274,860, as against £199,757 for 1909. . . . With the 33
per cent, increase in wages all round that is being asked
for, our factories will soon be for sale, cheap. We would
have to increase the prices, and our friends across the
way would.do the rest.
These remarks really amount to a strong argu-
ment in favor of voting “Yes” in the industrial
referendum. To have one authority in charge of
the tariff and another in charge of the regulation
of wages is utterly and ridiculously absurd. The
two things are one thing, and must be attended
to simultaneously. If not, then there is a danger
either (as shown here) of the wages getting ahead
of the duty, in which case local manufacturing
stops; or of the duty pushing ahead of the wages,
in which case the manufacturer gets an undue
advantage over the rest of the community. Kid-
STON, of Queensland, is going about declaring that
the proposed amendments will “ringbark the
Constitution.” The observation is mainly guff ;
but, anyhow, it is better to ringbark the Consti-
tution than to ringbark the Commonwealth ; and
that is what Kidston proposes to do.
Once more the harried Caucasian skipper
is played out in his battle with the elusive Chow.
Every time a Chinese fireman or seaman deserts
his ship in the Commonwealth, and the fact is
proved, the master is fined £lOO ; and old sea dogs
with £4OOO worth of Chow crew aboard their
tramp steamers are almost worried to death until
they are at sea with all hands aboard. Last year
a Scot was fined £lOO for losing Ah Fat in Bris-
bane. When Ah Fat vanished the ship owed
him £l6 as wages. The Scotch skipper, when he
arrived in London treated this £l6 as a partial
sethiff against the £lOO, instead of accounting for
the sum to the local Superintendent of Marine.
That official thereupon haled the Scotch skipper
before the Bench. The Board of Trade fought for
the vanished Ah Fat on general principles. It
maintained that the skipper was fined, not
because the Chow deserted, but because he (the
skipper) broke the law in allowing him to desert,
and he couldn’t punish the missing Ah Fat for
his own illegal act; Further, argued the Board,
the Scotch skipper knew the Australian law, and
he deliberately took a Chinese crew because they
were cheap. Therefore, the Board said, in con-
clusion, the master still owed Ah Fat £l6. The
magistrate said “ Hear, hear.” The skipper then
spent more bawbees in an appeal to the High
Court of Justice, King’s Bench division ; and the
Appeal Court unanimously upheld Ah Fat, and
decided that the skipper still owes the elusive
heathen £l6. All the same, this paper does not
advise Ah Fat to apply for the money.
The solid qualities of the African cricketers
have won them much popularity as well as a
match or two. They only need a touch of Aus-
tralian brilliancy and our boys would have to sit
tight indeed. The nerve imparted by the Aus-
tralian atmosphere, mental and otherwise, be-
comes invincible when inspired to ltsmost winning
behavior by a dash of D.C.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs."
Criterion “Tom Jones.”
Palace “The Girl from Rector’s.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
i.YCKUM Spencer’s Pictures.
Clontarf Maori Village.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Bad Girl of the Family.”
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “The Gay Gordons.”
King’s “ The Christian.”
Opera House.. Rickards’Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
OrEN Air, St. Kilda .. The Follies.
“ Tom Jones ” arrived at Sydney Criterion
last Saturday night with several coachloads of ex-
cellent company. Instead of the roystering blade
of Fielding’s novel, he proves to be a nice, tuneful
young man, fit for any drawing-room, with clothes
that leave nothing to be desired. There is a
fairly well-defined plot drifting through the three
acts of the opera, and it keeps on bobbing up like
a lifebelt on the surface of German’s sparkling
music till the final curtain. Also, it is on very
good terms with the tide of melody ; so most of
the numbers are directly concerned with the story.
The brilliant composer has done his large share
nobly. The music has a fine sense of freshness
and originality, it is in accord with the period,
and it is poured out with a liberal hand.
* * * *
Winifred O’Connor makes a dainty Sophia.
She lacks warmth in her love-making, but sings
the florid music of the part with ease. Gertrude
Gilliam, as her maid Honor, acts briskly and is of
great assistance to the plot. Her animation cheers
the audience mightily, and she is concerned in
five numbers and two solos, which are among the
best-applauded items of the show. Thorley, in
the name-part, swaggers gracefully, and uppercuts
the scowling Blifil like a true hero. T. Jones is a
fairly light singing part, and Thorley fills it with-
out trouble. His most popular number is “West
Country Lad,” a rollicking thing with a chorus
which is third on the music list, and strikes the
audience whilst it is still music-hungry. Crom-
well, as Benjamin Partridge, the village barber,
is mostly the diverting Cromwell of other
Clarke and Meynell shows in different clothes ; he
never gets so far inside his part that he is dis-
guised beyond recognition. But, on the whole, it
is just as well; for, if the public couldn’t recog-
nise him easily and know for certain that its
Cromwell was present, there would certainly be
trouble. A favorite comedian must always keep
his signboard hanging out. Tom Walls gives a
good caricature of a shock-headed country serving-
man ; Fred England is a picturesque Mr. All-
worthy; Charlie Stone scowls forbiddingly as
the sneaky Blifil; and Jennie Pollock earns several
words of praise for some spirited acting as
Lady Bellaston. Percy Clifton’s work as the
hard-drinking Squire Western is uniformly good ;
he is at his best when, with his gouty foot swathed
in bandages and his bald, pink head vibrating
with passion, he stands on the stairs of the inn
and shakes an immense oaken cudgel at the
shivering barber, who, of course, has heen tramp-
ing on the gouty foot. The third Act includes a
whirlsome dance by Miss Chistie Mulniah, who
has taken the place of Essie Perrin. The season
is announced to be only a short one; but, it is to
be hoped that it will be long enough for all Sydney
to attend.
“ THE WHIP," AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
Marie Illing-
ton as the
Hon. Mrs.
Beamish.
Chas.
Graham
as the per-
secuted
parson.
The home bows.
The news arrived on a day of slush and
thunder, When the sky was a sort of elephant’s
breath color overhead and the mud was a giraffe
sneeze hue under foot. It was a sad, dreary day,
when man, being driven to beer, was arrested for
furious driving in his haste to get there. The
wet hen, and the damp, angry cat, and the
soaked dog that required to be blotted, and
the muddy doormat, and the door with the
loud bang were the principal features of the land-
scape. The desire for change and variety grew so
strong that one would even have been tempted to
swap mothers-in-law. And this was the sort of
occasion which J. 0. Williamson seized to adver-
tise that “Miss Gibbs” at Sydney Royal had
reached her 122nd performance, and, like the
rain, had no intention of stopping. The name of
Miss Gibbs becomes a monotony these days.
* # *
No news is to hand of any probable cessa-
tion of “The Whip” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
The railway accident and the much-advertised
“Race for the Two Thousand Guineas” seem
likely to keep it going almost indefinitely. The
latter looks, if possible, a shade more realistic than
it did. In olden days the stage horse-race looked
as if it should be called the Crawl for Tuppence,
but the breed of histrionic mokes has improved
since then.
* * * *
Hugh Ward, it will be learned with regret,
is going to do “Seven Days.” In a fit of remorse or
something—probably because “The Girl from
Rector’s ” wasn’t what it was alleged to. be—he
has passed this sentence on himself; and his co.
is to share the trouble with him. Still, he has
made it as light for himself as he can consis-
tently with his own stern sense of justice. He
hasn’t asked himself to shift from the Palace, and
the public won’t be actually barred from seeing
him if it wants to ; and if the new show isn’t as
good as “ The Girl from Rector’s,” the advt. on
the subject isn’t as truthful as a self-respecting
advt. should be.
5k 5k * *
Sydney Tivoli, at time of writing, is re-
garding its collection of stars with the placidly
triumphant expression an engaged young woman
wears when She looks at the expensive sparkling
ring which means that another man is bound
either for the altar or a breach-of-promise action.
Julian Rose, Hebrew impersonator, heads the
bill; and after him step the Six American
Dancers, and Miss Yetta, who cakewalks in mid-
air on a wire. The Blessings, Frank Harwood,
Baby Watson and Wynne and Bryan, two opera
singers, are also amongst those present. The last
nights are announced of Fanny Powers and Godfrey
James, the latter being the gentleman who lights
himself on to the darkened stage with a miner’s
safety lamp.
* * * *
Having discovered the most, beautiful
woman in Sydney, West’s Pictures are now in-
viting charmers to enter for the “Sirens of the
Surf ” competition. Talk about the Palace of
Ten Thousand Delights ! Rubbish ! However,
to come back to earth again. Tuesday night
saw a change of programme, and Henry
VIII. and Katherine Howard stalked across the
screen in all the gorgeousness of the Tudor period '
—that delightful period when love was made
piquant with the chance of a headsman in black
velvet playing the last act. Another fine film
is that which shows 1000 miles by motor-
car through Europe. If one can run to a
motor-car, there are points about living in
Europe. Of course, the “Gaumont Graphic” is
still on deck with its scraps of newsy pictures
from everywhere. That big element of the popu-
lation which loves to look upon splendid buildings
can glut its appetite on the beauties of the Abbey
of Pavia, that old Italian den of wickedness and
home of glory. The usual matinbe did not take
place yesterday (Wednesday), but will eventuate
to-day (Thursday) in honor of the State’s birth-
day.
5k 5k 5k 5k
At Sydney Lyceum, Spencer is showing a
pair of exclusive films, entitled “ The City of Her
Dreams” and “The Valet’s Vindication’’—the
one charming, the other comic. Any man looking
for a reposeful career can get a good hint by blow-
ing into theLyceum just before ‘ 1 A Day on a Poultry
Farm ” comes along, and learn the rudiments of the
Simple Life in comparative ease. Here, too, Henry
VIII. and his Katherine masquerade in the ancient
homes of England, and make every woman glad
that she was not a king’s peach in the days of the
Tudors. “Gaumont’s Graphic” also sheds the
rich variety of its impressions, and there is a
“ comic” in which the evergreen Foolshead is the
star performer. Foolshead is often a pleasing
circumstance. Owing to Anniversary kick-ups,
there is to be a special matinee to-day (Thursday).
5k 5k 5k 5k
The Maoris are still at Clontarf (N.S.W.),
where many improvements have been made in the
show since the arrival of the village. Maorilander
Alfred Hill got to work on the music for a while ;
and the result in that section is very marked.
Clontarf is a good picnicking spot, and the
Maoris make it trebly attractive.
5k 5k 5k 5k
That old-established buckjumping show,
known as Martini s, has been taken over by a
little Westralian syndicate, which proposes to
make it the nucleus of a thorough-going Austra-
lian backblocks exhibition, and take it to Europe.
For months past the continent has been
raked for the most confirmed pig-rooters
and other gymnastic animals, and next
moptli, when the caravan goes aboard, it
will include Bobs and nearly 50 other outrageous
horses and mules. Besides the rough-riders who
will risk their necks to make a Coronation holi-
day—and, incidentally, bread and beer —the show
is designed to include two or three famous stock-
handling Billjims, and two or three sheep-shear-
ing ringers, and a couple of axemen, and a couple
of other Billjims from Cunnamulla or other
remote parts who can make their stockwhips do
the most amazing tricks. And all the time the
good bush Australians who have put their money
into the scheme are (according to present inten-
tions) going to yell at the top of their syndicated
voice that they are Australians, and intend to
challenge the world to come along and see if it
can do the things as well.
* 5k 5k 5k
“The Christian,” at the King’s (Melb.),
engages the earnest attention of all those good
friends of melodrama who draw the line at, say,
“The Baffled Body Snatcher ” or “ The Totties
on the Tiles.” It doesn’t bear criticism, but it
carries a lot of theatrical weight, and its quota-
tions from Scripture command much applause.
When Father Duggan plants his feet firmly in the
centre of the situation and tells Archdeacon
Bailey that only a sinless person is entitled to
throw the first brick, the gallery is deeply
moved. And so it is when Polly Love,
on learning that giddy Lord Robert will do
nothing for their joint offspring, walks up stage
with her back to the audience, and asks, “What
encouragement is there for a girl to be good ? ”
Which is a strangely illogical question, anyhow.
The jaunty seducers in melodrama are for ever
warning young women against the folly of not
being good, for they invariably cast off their
victims with a sneer and make them sorry for
their little indiscretions. In fact, the present
writer has often thought that if he were
a poor, dear girl he would never go walking
with a bell-toppered man of fashion who
smoked cigarettes unless two chaperones were in
attendance. Polly’s query, therefore, amounts to
a gratuitous insult to melodrama—but no matter.
The performance has improved in sundry places,
and the elimination of Temple Harrison’s awful
whiskers adds solemnity to the entertainment.
Harrison’s part is very small. He’s just a minor
Jew in Miss Quayle’s music-hall circle ; neverthe-
less his whiskers were conspicuous atrocities on
the opening night. Now that lie is shaved and in
his right face the action of the piece proceeds more
smoothly
The children’s panto, at the King’s was
carried over into this week owing to a renewed rush
of business. Theadvt., however, stated that the
Old Woman would cease to live in her Shoe after
Wednesday ; so the extended season has probably
closed by this time.
*# * *
Jack in conjunction with the Beanstalk
continues with unabated fury at Her Majesty s
(Melbourne). Ordinarily there are matinees only on
Wednesday and Saturday, but Monday next week
is a holiday, in consideration of which fact Jack
will slay the Giant with the fabulous vegetable
aforesaid during the afternoon as well as in the
evening.
“THE CHRISTIAN,"
AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Rutland Beckett as
Lord Robert Ure
(a man of the
world).
Temple Harrison (Mr.
Finktestein! turns his back
on the audience.
At the Princess’s this is the fifth week of
“ The Bad Girl of the Bedroom.” The manage-
ment claims that the strange conduct of the Girl
and her stage associates has “ set the world talk-
ing,” but the conversation of the universe is not
revealed. Probably a good deal of its language
would be unprintable.
** * *
The braw bagpipers of “The Gay Gor-
dons” will repeat their weird noises for one more
week at Melbourne Royal, and then (on February
4) the company will introduce “The Gay Gris-
ette” to these latitudes. The last nights of the
“Gordons ” find it in good going order. An open-
air life in the first act seems to have agreed with
it, and the sprig of white heather which Maggie
Maesomebody plucks from one of the banks and
braes of the auld hame has brought the bonnie
production a fair amount of luck. The writer
personally wishes that Angus’s auld mither was
not quite so sorry when her braw laddie drops
into £150,000 a year; but her artistic tears come
as a novelty in this sort of show, and the public in
general takes a sympathetic view of the old lady’s
grief.
«* * *
At the Opera House the latest notable
arrival is one Fasola, a wizard with a British
deportment and a coffee-tinted face, whom the
advt. describes as a Great Indian Fakir. For the
most part his “turn ” is a seriesof mechanical illu-
sions, and Fasola’s only duty in the matter is to
fire off a pistol or bang a gong as a signal for a
lady to appear in a cabinet, or other contrivance,
where she wasn’t previously apparent. Much
furniture and three male attendants lend an air
of importance to Fasola’s illusions ; but there
is no apparent novelty of design in any of them.
As a conjurer the coffee-colored fakir does the sort
of trick that has too often been done, and leaves
undone the tricks that haven’t been done, and
there is no ginger in him. That is to say, he is
not a very effective miracle worker ; but hy wears
interesting clothes and preserves the utter silence,
which is an excellent thing in fakirs. All this
time Barnold’s Dogs are drawing crowds to
the Opera House, and Cooper and Lait are help-
ing to give the multitudes good value for their
money.
*• * *
The Glaciarium, Melbourne, stars the film
of “ The Song That Reached His Heart.” This
features a man whose drawing power is greater
than that of any poultice. Indeed, he draws his
girl over miles of ocean until they collide in a soft
and amorous hug. Dreamily sweet is “ A Ro-
mance of the Rockies,” where the hero develops a
gorgeous halo that should be preserved for do-
mestic illumination. Affecting in another way is
“The Three of Them,” wherein a smart-setter
takes to an adopted child, as if he were a skin-
food or something fresh in rouge.
»** % *
Melbourne Olympia is unfolding the story
of “The Slave of Carthage.” It is a yarn of
pagan vice and pure affection, interrupted by
street riots, lions and other adventures. For the
rest, well-groomed mountains with well-fitting
shadows are observed in the scenes around Zer-


PICTURE SHOWMEN should scud to-day for a
copy of our latest Catalogue. Brimful of infor-
mation and useful hints. Also send for our Film
Lists—they are right up to now.— JERDAN’S, 393
George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
/fa INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
''T PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
’Phone No. 236 Central. iSYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
rnatt, Switzerland. Russian bridges and Russian
face's are beheld on a trip down the Moskwa
River. Then, quitting travel, the audience yawns
over “The Violin’s Message.” One does tire of
these foolish stories, where dreary lovers make a
meal of a kiss and a parlor g/ime of a warm
embrace*
** * *
Miss Lucia Collins, making her first Aus-
tralian appearance at Adelaide Tivoli, elects to
Rive a kind of single-handed sing-song at the
piano* She has other strings to her bow, having
had a wide stage experience ; but at present she
sits down in a large hat and other attractive de-
tails, talks a little and sings a good deal in a
voice not powerful but well-managed and reminis-
cent of Palotta’s. It is a pleasant and unusual
turn, steering clear of all comparison with the
singer’s lamented parent and her once haunting
ballad of “Boom-de-ay.” Fred Bluett is back,
heaping ridicule on the hobble-skirt—of which
Adelaide does not know much in practice. At the
Royal, Miss Williamson and Alfred Woods are re-
lying on various Hall Caine adaptations. The only
trouble is that they have all been done before,
and done better. Wests’ pictures have appro-
priately put on some views of the Isle of Man,
and are promoting a local Beauty competition
which promises great things. Branscombe’s
lkmdies at the Exhibition are steadily making a
name; but the various Pierrot shows on the
beaches have pulled out, and are being replaced
by still more picture shows.
The luck of F. J. Thomas, manager of the
Newcastle and Hunter River S.S. Co., and
about the best-known shipping man in Syd-
ney, is right out. Last week his wife
died unexpectedly. Next month he is to ap-
pear at the Quarter Sessions on a charge of
sending an unseaworthy ship to sea. The craft in
question is the Hunter, and Thomas is proceeded
against in his business capacity as legal manager.
He is the first Sydney shipping magnate who has
been asked to stand his trial on this particular
charge, which is a pretty serious one.
The Greater Sydney movement is pushed
on a bit further by a decision of the Glebe Coun-
cil. The aldermen thereabouts had been flirting
with a Private Enterprise electric-lighting co. ;
but the City Council bustled up, offered better
terms, and Private Enterprise was turned down.
The City Council undertakes to let Glebe share
in the savings and economies that can be made by
having all the lighting done by one body ; and if
it pans out all right in connection with lighting,
a good many people will want to see if the same
thing will pan out in connection with the other
branches of municipal business.
A Melbourne councillor has announced
that he would like to horsewhip some persons
who, with healthy desires never dreamed of in his
philosophy, indulge in bathing on the Melbourne
beaches, thereby offending our liege lord the
King and sundry persons who stroll clown to the
seaside and take note of those in the water. The
idea of remedying this by making it an offence for
anyone to stroll on the beach does not appear to
have occurred to this anomalous councillor,
although it would be every bit as reasonable as
preventing persons from bathing because they
offend those who prefer to walk, or sit down, or
kneel and pray, or stand on one leg, or do any
other old thing. Some people who are not fond
of beer want to prohibit beer, and some (possibly
the same ones) who are not fond of water evidently
want to prohibit that also.
Sleep, it seems, is the visiting Battenburg
princeling’s idea of perfect happiness—for the
working person. Having seen a gum-tree or two,
lie, told a daily paper interviewer :
The work in the bush is hard. The workers sleep all
the better for it. The bush is the place for immigrants.
That is to say, it is the place where they can sleep
well. To be unconscious is to be as happy as the
working man ought to expect to be. Under those
circumstances, the delighted Battenburg would
probably spring 3ft. if he discovered the
rock-chopping job of the Sydney sewermen ; for
the rock-chopper gets perfect and perpetual un-
consciousness with great rapidity. Still, let us
forgive Battenburg, if we 6an. He comes from
Freetrade Britain, and more or less knows that
when the working man gets good sleep he gets
just about all that is likely to come his way.
Melb.” : This week’s obituary includes
the Rev. John Reid. He was a forceful, intellec-
tual personage of our little sphere. With an
Edinburgh University polish, he began life as.an
actor in Scotland, but subsided into dramatic
criticism. He excelled in a host of other things;—
tutored Rosebery ; lectured at the English Con-
gregational College; then, coming to Melbourne
40 years ago, did a heap of journalism, both local
and for the English papers, A founder of the
Shakspearian Society, he revelled with James
Smith, Neild, Morris, Way, Ivers, Exon and so
forth. Anybody would murmur “ Actor ” passing
Reid in the street, with his stern, Roman, classic,
stagey air. He was an extremely kind-hearted
man. I recall a delightful evening at the mansion
of Judge Webb, at Caulfield, when the Shaks-
pearian Society read “The Merchant of Venice.”
Some of the cast: Shylock, Reid ; Bassanio,
Ivers; Antonio, Potts; Gratiano, Deegan
(“ Autolyeus”of the Argus —“Autolycus” of the
Age was H. Collier, and “Telemachus” Myers
wrote as “Autolycus” in a third Melbourne paper).
Dr. Neild took Launcelot Gobbo, and by a queer
inversion his son was Old Gobbo. Miss Reid was
an excellent Portia.
The Argus is whooping up a testimonial
to the lady who was recently paid organiser of the
Women’s Anti-Labor League of Victoria, and
announces a donation of 10s. from “ Labor Man.”
Probably this will be the Labor supporter who
shouted “Lies ! ” when the lady got off her well-
known remark about Labor and the sanctity of
the home. If it wasn’t that Laborite, possibly it
is the one who called out “Prove it !” when the
lady alleged that Socialism .meant anarchy. Un-
less, of course, “Labor Man” is the citizen who
replied “ Bosh ! ” (or “Rats ! ” was it ?) when, at
Bunbingery, the lady told the crowd that some
day the tiger’s claw of Socialism would tear
the hardworking husbands of Bunbingery
away from their unwilling wives, and re-
move their children to a State nursery. It
is fine to see a “ Labor Man ” subscribing to the
lady’s fund —all very fine and large ; but it’s a
pity he didn’t give his name and address, and
mention his Union, and state what branch of the
P.L.C. he attends. There really doesn’t seem to
,be any reason why a well-meaning “Labor Man ”
should hide his ten-bob light under a bushel of
anonymity.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Clarke and Meynell propose to start a manufactory of
stage shows in London, with a view to their Australian
trade. Seeing that the business, to be successful, must
be conducted in a co-operative spirit, and that the mana-
gers who risk Anglo-Australians’ productions in London
will also be prepared to risk Australian-Anglo productions
in Melbourne or Sydney, if promising material is sub-
mitted by local writers, the new movement calls for sym-
pathy at this end. Clarke and Meynell, Ltd., has leased
a London theatre, in conjunction with a resident
manager, for the immediate purpose of staging musical
comedies. Nothing less frivolous is contemplated at pre-
sent ; but the drama, presumably, is to get a look in'later.
The productions will be chosen with regard to their
seeming adaptability to Australian taste, so that what is
exceedingly Hinglish in London may be afterwards pre-
sented to Australia in an ameliorated state. Also, the
casts of the performance will be tried on the London
dog, so to speak, before being shipped to this country, or
vice versa. And seeing that only a few principals are
shipped in any case, there will always be a chance for
bright Australian understudies and minor-part players to
be transferred toLondonon their promotion, and reshipped
to Australia as “stars.” The scheme has a pleasing
breadth of purpose, and a promise of mutual benefit.
“ 0.K.” : Re the pertinacity of “ Hiphen ” (B. 19/1/11)
in reviving his discredited allegation that “a trust, com-
bine or honorable understanding had been arranged by
J.0.W., the Olarke-Meynell.firm and Anderson, whereby
they would work hand-in-hand instead of fist-to-fist,”
“ Hiphen,” seemingly, is one of the many allegators who
cannot take back his own mis-statement with philosophic
grace, but is for ever itching to fire off some more false
evidence in support of it. His original discovery of the
alleged combine or honorable understanding was made
in October, 1909, and two months later Anderson started
to lose a lot of money by staging a panto, in opposition
to J.C.W., which non-success sufficiently explains his
return to murderdrama this Christmas. All the same,
Anderson did, for some weeks recently, stage a children’s
panto, at matinbes in opposition to J.C.W.’s annual,
whilst Clarke and Meynell (who had Oscar Asche last
Christmas) produced a new comic opera co. as a counter
musical and spectacular attraction. Now as regards
“Hiphen’s” more retrospective evidence. When C. and
M. were running “The Arcadians,” early last year,
J.C.W. staged “The Country Girl” and “The Dollar
Princess ” (first time) in direct opposition. And when
J.C.W. staged “ The Whip,” he was opposed by Ander-
son with an Australian racing melodrama, “The Win-
ning Ticket,” in which the mechanical horse-race and
the other sensation scene with a railway train in it, were
practically borrowed from the Drury Lane play. More-
over, Anderson hurried up his production so as to get
it going a week before J.C.W. staged “The Whip.”
These instances of the same old rivalry between (man-
agers in Melbourne should suffice to explode “ Hiphen’s”
reiterated fallacy. But Melbourne is not the only city
where Williamson and Clarke and Meynell conduct steady
rival business. In Sydney this Christmas the firms have
been competing against one another with comic operas.
A revival of 0. and M.’s trump card, “ The Arcadians ”
was put up against “Our Miss Gibbs,” and now C. and
M. are running “ Tom Jones ” for the first time in Sydney
in opposition to J.C.W.’s long-established attraction.
Where is the faintest indication of a “combine” in this
statement of facts? “Hiphen” shows a lack of
understanding of theatrical business when he insinuates
that only a “combine” could account for Clarke and
Meynell’s retirement from the panto, field, after
having scored a success in it. “Cinderella” was
an exceptional thing—quite different from the style
of panto, that Williamson has been producing for 20 years.
It needed no special engagement of “ panto.” performers.
It was really an extravaganza, in which all the pincipal
parts were suitable to the members of the “Hook of Hol-
land ” co. who had been imported from England nine
months previously with this Christmas production in
view. Given another pan to.-extravaganza, equally well
adapted to the capabilities of a stock comic opera co. B
Clarke and Meynell would doubtless repeat the experi-
ment of staging a fairy tale in opposition to the older
firm.
“ T.P.0.C.”: “ Hiphen’s” alleged arrangement or under-
standing between Clarke and Meynell, Anderson and
Williamson doesn’t look real (B. 19/l/’ll). J.C.W. re-
cently had his No. 2 opera co. located at Melbourne
Princess’s while the C. and M. “ Arcadian ” crowd was at
the Royal; while the appearance of the latter at Sydney
Criterion on Boxing Night apparently' impelled William-
son to cancel the M.L. tour of “ Our Miss Gibbs,” so that
the lady might remain and do battle with the Arcadians,
and incidentally' attempt to squash the “Cinderella”
record, which seemingly hurt the theatrical suscepti-
bilities of J.C.W. Ltd. Future events foreshadow war to
the knife between the belligerents. The Irvings—Ethel
(C. and M.) and H.B. (J.C.W.) —make an almost simul-
taneous descent on Melbourne in June or thereabouts, and
Xmas 1911 will see the rivals engaged in a new panto-
mimic struggle beside the Yarra. A Williamson panto-
mime is always a Melbourne Xmas feature, and C. and M.,
having no similar concoction ready made this year, could
not have menaced J.C.W. Ltd. with greater effect than
by sending their brand-new and much-boomed “ Gay
Gordon ” stock to the Roy'al. All of which makes one
sorry that “ Hiphen ” ever emerged from his “ dignified
silence.”
The stage directors of “ The Gay Gordons” Co. is Fred
Winn, the plump, matter-of-fact comedian who takes
the part of the lawyer in the Melbourne show. Winn, it
seems, has appeared in various characters which are very
familiar to Australian theatre-goers. He was one of the
earliest Mr. Hooks in “ Hook of Holland ” ; for a whole
year at Manchester he played millionaire Condor in “The
Dollar Princess,” and for three or four years he wore the
belltopper and frock coat of Cy'rus Gilfain (Hugh Ward’s
old part) in “ Florodora” ; also he played Hilarius in “ La
Poup6e ” what time George Lauri was doing the same
thing in Australia.
“0.K.” : Re the 115th anniversary (January 15) of the
first production of a drama in Sydney—Barrington’s
“Botany Bay: The Voyage and Sequel” makes no
mention of the “first night’s cash takings being stolen
before manager Sparrow could bank them.” But the
historian says : “ Some of the most notorious of the con-
victs, ever on the watch to exercise their talents for
depredation, looked upon the playhouse as a grand de-
sideratum, not by robbing the persons of the audience of
their purses or their watches, but by breaking into their
houses while the whole family were at the play ; and this
actually happened on the second night of the perform-
ing.” The burgling of the managerial cash-box is probably
a myth, like the alleged recitation of the well-known
“ prologue.” Barrington, who undoubtedly supplied all
the matter of the “ sequel,” knew everything that hap-
pened in the way of larceny, and would hardly have
ignored one incident whilst recording another.
“ The Gay Grisette,” about to be staged by Clarke and
Meynell, at Melb. Royal, comes from the same “stable”
as “The Lady Slavey,” which J. F. Sheridan produced
here of yore ; but it is said to have no story to speak of.
If it had a plot one would look for evidence of plagiarism
in it. “ The Lady Slavey” was just a modernisation of
the story of “Cinderella,” like “The Catch of the
Season.”
“Cockaigne”: Grinnvood, who was in Australia with
Asche, evinced himself a particularly earnest actor as
lago, Ford, and the King Charles of “Count Hannibal.”
On his return, London gave him worthy recognition in
the last-named play, wherein Souper was replaced by
Webster ; and now it has seen him make the utmost of a
fine chance, creating the part of Pompe.v the Great in a
remarkably creditable new play, by one Maesland, given
by the Stage Students’ Society. Clearly he is a man of
whom much is yet to be heard.
The popular “Jimmie” Glover told the O.P. Club in
London, last month, of the days when playwrights were
not paid royalties on the present basis. He once adapted
a play from the French for £3 cash, with a promise to
make it £3 10s. if the English version proved a success.
It did. It brought its purchaser about £20,000. “It is
only fair to say,” concluded Glover, “that when I wrote
for the extra 10s., it was paid without a murmur.”
Violinist Henri Staell w'as at the meeting to make final
arrangements for Mr. W. Aspre.v’s benefit concert on
February 22, and consented to lead an orchestra of 80
performers on that occasion. To-day he is in Lewisham
(Sydney) Hospital, and suffering from appendicitis, with
serious complications.
A new dancer, Ernie Leno, recently exercised his legs
at the London Pavilion. The artist is said to be the only
son of the late lamented Dan Leno.
“Bromide”: Will some certificated Poyerty Pointer,
Aboliar or bush lawyer tell me whether the theatre-going
public has any rights at all ? I have often gone into a
theatre just before starting time, when the sale of
tickets should have been stopped because
of “standing room only.” But they
didn’t stop selling. They sent the packers
in amongst the audience to try and
jamb 20ft. of people into 15ft. ‘of
room. No courteous request to
“Move closer, please,” but
just a grab at men, women
and children as if they were
sacks of grain. If anyone
remonstrated or refused to be
hurled, three or four of these
brutes would assault him first
and throw him out after-
wards. If the remonstrator
was too burly-looking they'd
call a policeman, and the
Law would back up the bul-
lies. I think it’s nearly time
the public knew exactly
where it stands. When a
person pays for a theatre
seat, does it mean that he
(or she) has to sit half
on the lap Of the next
person, with the half of
someone else on his lap (or
hers); or are the theatre
people supposed to allow so
much seat room for each
patrbn ? If the latter, how
much room? I was in a
Sydney theatre recently and
saw one of the “ packers ”
grab hold of a burly rooster I
knew from North Queensland.
He refused to either move
or be pawed about. The
packer started talking “chuck-
out.” I was waiting for
them to start, as there would
have been considerable
“hurry-up” if they had
started, but the “packers”
wilted. If this chap could
successfully defy them, and
he did, the law must
be with the public—and
the public ought to know
it!
ROY REDGRAVE, actor
and leading man, now
playing in his own ver-
sion of “The Christian"
at Melbourne King’s.
“Motley” : “Poverty Point” had a reference not long
ago to Cooke, Wilson and Zoyara’s “ World Circus,”
which appeared in Sydney and Melbourne in 1866, having
come from San Francisco. The star was “ the lustrous
equestrienne, Mademoiselle Ella Zoyara,” who turned out
to be a married man with two children. I have just ex-
humed a gushing pamphlet called “Ella Zoyara, the
Fairy of the Ring,” by Tom Cringle, published by Clar-
son, Shallard and Co. in Melbourne in 1866, and sold at
the circus performances. Tom Cringle was one W.
Walker, who came from India and was popular in Mel-
bourne. Whether he was bamboozled or not over the
Zoyara I don’t know. The man who impersonated her
in Sydney and Melbourne was Omar Kingsley. It ap-
appears there was a great equestrienne named Ella
Zoyara. Barnum, after making some money out of her,
afterwards got a boy named Charles Reed to impersonate
her. But this was apparently not Kingsley, so there
were two Dromios for poor Ella Zoyara, who had in the
meantime died, leaving a name that was worth stealing.
Bernard Shaw has written a play in which William
Shakspeare is the spirited hero. During the course of
the piece Billy converses in the fluent jargon of Barney,
and smites some of Posterity’s artistic valuations with
dreadful sneers. In his own case, he declares that two
of his least-liked works are really masterpieces, while his
popular Compositions, “ Much Ado ” and “As You Like
It,” are “the most damnable foolishnesses in the world.”
Now, if only Billy could drop us a few acts giving us his
straight griffin about Barney !
Hoyt’s Pictures people (Melb.) have struck the idea of
screening a Children’s Beauty Competition. One day last
week a couple of hundred Melbourne kiddies were
motored down to the Yarra bank to be einematographed
by Pathe’s operater, who “took” them individually and
collectively. The kiddies were understood to have been
selected before they were put into the competition, but
to be “ pretty as a picture ” in the flesh and pretty in a
picture on Hoyt’s screen are two different things.. Any-
how, the advertising dodge appeals to parents and
guardians, who roll up religiously to give a round of
applause to their Matidies and Willies.
“O. K.” : How futile is the railing of a tired few against
the sins of the “ first part” at a Rickards show! For
the people who go to “ Rickards’s ” only occasionally,
when attracted by the reputation of one or two particu-
lar turns, the “ new and original first part” is an inflic-
tion,” so they say ; and they talk fondly of the time
when The World’s Entertainers gave a variety show in
opposition to Rickards and dispensed with a first part, A
programme comprised of “ turns ” only, on the English
or American music-hall system, is what these complain-
ants sigh for. They would get it if it were better for biz
than the present style of programme. But at the time of
the World’s Entertainers (or soon afterwards) an imitative
alteration was made in the Rickards show. The first
part was cut out, and the entertainment consisted of
turns which were duly tabled in the advt. Whereupon
the gallery attendance showed a falling off, and although
the new order of things reduced the expenses consider-
ably, it was found more profitable to put back the first
part and raise the expenses back to their old average.
“ Parisine ” : Bernard Shaw’s playlet introducing Shak-
speare and Queen Elizabeth, recalls a queer opera by
Ambroise Thomas, composer of “Ophelia” and “ Mig-
non,” brought out in the Paris Opera Comique. He
called it “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Shakspeare,
after drinking with Jonson, Beaumont and others, falls
asleep in the Mermaid Tavern. Queen Elizabeth enters.
She has him conveyed to Windsor Park, supposed to be
handy. There he awakes at early morn, while the flutes
perform the twittering of the birds, and there is a love
scene with Queen Bess.
Mrs. Langtry, the famous “ Society beauty ” of 30 years
ago, is to do a “turn” of some sort in the London
music halls. At the height of her fame she became
an actress on the regular stage, and, though quite
moderate in her powers, had a “ success of curipsity.”
Now she is, by a second marriage, Lady de Bathe, and
meanwhile her own famous name of “Lily Langtry" has
been annexed by an active young person wtio lately
pranced through Australia under the management of H.
Rickards.
“Native Rambler”: Marvellous Melbourne! I grant
the marvellous. An alleged up-to-date city that will issue
licenses to fire-boxes like some of Melbourne’s show-places
is on the verge of being flamingly marvellous. I was in
Chicago at the time of the Iroquois Theatre holocaust,
and a week previously was shown over the afterwards-
roasted house. I’ll undertake to say that there are not
in Melbourne more than two or three public places of
entertainment which for fire protection would rank as
third-raters alongside the Iroquois ; yet in half an hour
563 people were over-cooked in the American theatre. I
am not prepared to estimate how many Melbourneites
would be cooked in a similar catastrophe; but when a
fire breaks out in a theatre or play-house or picture-
palace with wooden-enclosed stairways, I’m thinking that
the Yankee record will be made to look small.
“ Trotter ” : A London novelty is a brief Chinese drama
called “ The Dragon’s Wrath,” acted by Chinese, headed
by Mrs. Chung. The production was suggested by the
favorable reception of a Japanese company. Some
trouble was found in getting the show together, for there
are fevv actresses on the Chinese stage ; female parts are
usually taken by men, as in Shakspeare’s time, and as in
such Chinese plays as we have seen in Australia. “The
Dragon's Wrath ” begins with the hero and the villain
supping together, with chopsticks and rice and mysteries.
Heroine appears. Hero and villain wrestle for her. Hero
wins. So ends the first scene. Years elapse. The second
scene shows the hero and heroine married, with two
children. Villain turns up, and is kindly received.
Sneaking a chance, he tries to abduct the heroine. Foiled,
of course. Follows a terrific combat with swords.
Heroine gets between and is slain. Curtain. There are
gorgeous costumes and scenery, with a ballet and a lot of
“Madame Butterfly” paraphernalia which wouldn’t
adorn the play in China. The trifle occurs as an interlude
at Miss Kingston’s little theatre.
There’s a good living in a well-tanned skin—that’s if it
covers a divinely plump girl. In the Christmas number
of Variety, New York, a list is given of the most highly-
paid variety artists in the U.S.A., wherein Australia’s
plump, brown mermaid, Annette Kellerman, is placed
seventh. Her screw is given as 2000dols. (about £400)
Weekly. The list is headed by Gertrude Hoffman, with
£6OO weekly.
British Wowserism has made an unpleasant absurdity of
Richard Strauss’s opera on Oscar Wilde’s play, “ Salome.”
London had to see the opera ; but the Censor would not
have John the Baptist’s head on the stage. Also, for un-
known reasons, he would not let the lady say to John,
“ I want to kiss thy lips.” According to the play, it was
because John wouldn’t agree that she asked for his head,
and kissed the lips greedily when she got it. But as the
thing was performed at Covent Garden it worked out in
this absurd way: (1) Salome said merely, “I will follow
you, O prophet,” like a Salv’arm.v lass. (2) She asked
Herod, not for his Head, but his Blood, like the adven-
turess in melodrama. (3) After the execution, a dish
with no head was handed out, and when she embraced it
the unpleasant sensation was conveyed that she was drink-
ing the blood from it
“Montalex”: About beards (“Theorbo,” B. 19/l/’ll).
The old commonsense theatrical rule was that an actor
should be clean-shaven, so as to leave vacant territory
for any kind of trimmings that his part might require.
As for the bearded Frenchmen, how do they manage
when cast for a play timed in a clean-shaven period? No
competent stage-manager would in that ease allow a
mummer to “go on ” bearded ; while, as for shaving-off
for the occasion, re-growth is a slow and unlovely pro-
cess. Few actors have the chance, like Bourchier for
Henry VIII., of cultivating specially for the part. Many
have been the variations of face-hair fashion since the
time of the blue-painted Briton. He wore everything
that grew ; but the Saxons that invaded him, and the
Scandinavians that invaded them, wore mostly only a
moustache of the “ plunger” type. The Normans—con-
trary to popular belief—were clean-shaven and long-
haired, and remained so up till the time of Henry VII.
(How did they manage to stow their long locks into their
tin hats?) Francis I. grew a beard to hide a chin-injury,
and face-hair was thereafter worn in one form or another
up to the time of James 11., after which the.scraped face
ruled again until well into the 19th century.
Tasmania’s Fusion Government, which is
really controlled by a little knot of alleged back*
bone-of-the-country members from the potato-
growing districts, is again up to its neck in
trouble, by reason of a widespread outbreak of
Irish blight. Presumably, because of the pres-
sure brought to bear by the “ backbone,”'
the Government exempted a number of dis- •
tricts in the spud areas from the compulsory
spraying provisions of the Act, with the result
that a shipment of 700 bags of Tasmanian spuds
was condemned on arrival in Sydney on Jan. 7,
1911. Of course, the Minister has how ordered the
spray-pumps into action all over the infected
areas, and tremendous energy is to be displayed
in the hope of checking the disaster. Unfortu-
nately the Potato Diseases Act of the Specked
Spud State does not give the Minister power to
hang a few farmer politicians ; and the few con-
scientious farmers who did spray their crops are
not even allowed to hang the Minister.
COUGH IF YOU WANT TO,
But remember it is very annoying to those
around you, and it is anything but polite when
you can get so ready an aid as Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. A single dose will relieve an
ordinary cough. Very often three doses will
cure an ordinary cold.
That large and solid event, Anthony Hor-
derns’ summer sale, by which many N.S.W.
households are said to set the clock, will start on
the 27th inst. ; and those who can't crowd in by
February 18 will have missed the ’bus —which in
this case is short for bargains. To show the
public what is on offer, the big house has issued a
250-page “Sale Book,” and anybody that asks for
it can have it.
Alfred Hawkesworth, who teaches the young
and middle-aged idea at Sydney .Technical College how to
know the sheep from the goat, and the good sheep’s wool
from the shoddy, has revised and enlarged his invaluable
text-book on “Australian Sheep and Wool”; and Wm.
Brooks and Co., Ltd., have published it. For suckling
Australian squatters there is no better volume in the
world.
A. C. Rowlandson, known in commerce as The
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., has knocked ttye two sides and
bottom out of the idea that a book must be imported to
sell in Australia. A brief time ago he commenced pub-
lishing Australian books, by Australian writers, and
already has sold over half a million copies. With such a
proved demand he plunges deeper, and is now snapping
up good work right and left. The early part of this year
will see the publication of new books by Steele Rudd,
T. E. Spencer, Randolph Bedford, E. J. Brady, Ambrose
Pratt, Arthur Wright and Edward Dyson, and a number
of other interesting though less known writers. The dis-
covery of this market has changed the look of things for
the Australian author. He formerly had to send his
work to London and take what he got (which was usually
nothing). Now he can deal direct with the publisher and
get prompt settlement and quick returns. The result is
that the Australian writer finds that it pays better to
publish in Australia than in London—which is good for
Australia as well as for the author.*
THE COMEDIAN TO HIS GAG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wheezes as old as Noah, and better known than his
ark, are impudently offered as good goods fresh from the
vine.— Complaint of “ Stargazer," (B. S/lfll).
Dear Gag, that Mr. Noah himself
To Mrs. Noah first told,
I once more take down from y'our shelf—
I love you though you’re old !
Blest Wheeze, that’s braved some thousand years
The smoke-room and the stage,
I reverence as one reveres
The old red sandstone age:
The world for seons yet may wag,
And so shall you, my dear old Gag !
Though ancient, friend, and scarred and bent,
You still can cause a “ scream ”;
To some folks, young and innocent,
This season’s goods you seem ;
Who’d chance new jokes at ev’ry show,
To please the blas6 few ?
Hundreds are tried which do not “ go ”
I can depend on you !
Old friends are few ; that’s why I brag
Of one that’s tried and true, old Gag !
Let the disgruntled critics run
You down—who cares, my pet!
Knowing what years, and years of fun
You’ve caused, I’ll crack you yet!
And when for other “comics” I
On life’s stage shall make room,
They’ll crack you still, I prophesy,
Until the crack of doom !
Not till descends the final rag,
Will you give up the ghost, old Gag !
VICTORIA.
KARDLEY TURNER.


00
Y
lb,
m
lilililMi
n
Q
The
Mighty
f c
99
The Giant
of Commerce,
h „ *a»*«. ■-".nrsia'a? “ d h “ "“*" a ,pe "*‘
THE “ HALLEY ’ ’ =™Tons In up hill or down dale.
SOLE AGENTS for Australia I)ALGETY $ CO. LTD., 136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
and New Zealand- A/rtL,u^
ĥ
Sac Suits to Order
Sale Price 56/9.
Our Famous 03/- Suits.
An order placed for one of these Suits during
the Sale means to you a saving of ■ —6/3.
EVERY Suit possesses the highest characteristics of quality and finish—
the same care and attention is given to the cut and details as at
ordinary times. Each Suit leaves us with our guarantee of satis-
faction, or your money refunded.
We show an extremely large range of patterns in the season s newest
materials —they include the latest styles in Diagonal Tweeds, Herringbone
Serge, and the newest topes in Grey, Brown and Green Tweeds, uur
speciality is a Roiigh Marine Indigo Serge at the same price.
USUAL PRICE, 63/ SALE PRICE, 56/9.
Patterns and Self-measurement Form posted free to any address on
request. Do not delay to write for our Sale Catalogue.
DAVID JONES L,™*
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Society
A USE FOR THEM.
the STRANGER: “ So those are warships!”
THE OLD SALT: “ We ll, I believe so. But they
mostly use 'em these days as wireless tele-
graph stations! ”
“ Raa ” : Among the many casual corpses
that have been picked up around Sydney the last
few months, I marvel that there hasn’t been even
one of the larrikin lawyers who infest the local
police courts. It must be true, after all, that the
Devil looks after his own. In certain courts, and
before certain “stipes,” these hoodlums, when
questioning witnesses under cross-examination,
can and do go to any length that may suggest
itself to their prurient minds. Anything goes,
from asking a decent girl what she has done with
the baby to asking a witness whether it isn’t
a fact that a mere sight of him has been
known to make the defendant vomit. Had
the magistrate any sense of the, respect due
to either his court or himself, he’d heave the
Judiciary Act at these bounders. But, instead,
there are “stipes” who merely say, “There,
there, that’ll do ! ” while the phool public which
patronises these shows enjoys the free —and filthy—
tongue and the owner of it accordingly. I don t
know whether Holman ever looks in at these low-
, down variety halls or not; but if he doesn t his
.colleague Beeby can tell him enough about them
jto persuade him to say a few words to the jelly-
-fish “stipes” who allow the administration of
justice to be disgraced.
Randolph Bedford writes
White men all the world over—except t b eJ 'n f ro
Britisher who, as a rule, and because of the
ignorance which equips the Jingo, knows little of any
country abroad-are agreed that the British-Japanese
alliance was a blow at the prestige of the white man.
The Englishman who stays at home is used to the spec
tacle of Jap or Chow “ walking out with white gills in
London-as used as he is to being on terms of Hiendlj
equality with the 8.1. nigger or Pompey from Sierra
Leone or the Bermudas. If he doesn't regard the Japor
the Chow as a brudder, he looks at him as an interest
ing exotic, like the humming-bird, and miscegenation
does not seem to him as terrible as it is to us whokMW
Apart from all that, there are likenesses and approxima-
tions of Britisher to Jap, and these make the disf-'raeeful
alliance as wildly respectable as a Mafekmg Day or
Boer War. Both Jap and Britisher live °n and
make penknives ; and the poverty of the bulk of both sets
of islanders is equally hideous. The Jap sends his
daughter to the Yoshiwarra and the Englishman toler
ates the horrors of Englishwomen sweated as chain-
makers at Cradley Heath. Both are wildly conceited ,
the Britisher lives on the memory ot Trafalgar, and the
Jap howls at his victory over the apathetic Russian who
ran away just when the Jap fleet was preparing
away instead. Likewise, the Jap thmks he can fig t
England and the U.S. on the one da -V. an d th e British
believe that the Englishman is better than threei 1 ranch
men—a belief first uttered by an insanitary old lexico-
grapher named Dr. Johnson, whose little travels m the
Hebrides apparently entitled him to bedogmatic about
the alleged inferiority of a nation he had " ev ?‘ 8 ® e ";
Furthermore, Japan and England each regards itself as
being a great colonising force, though the JapB ar
making as big a mess of Formosa as the. English made of
India and South Africa, not to mention the loss
of the American colonies and the fact that Australia
owes its present position as a practical republic to
abolition of British interference in the making ot Aus-
tralian laws. Over in San Francisco there is a Jap
coolie from Yokohama who sells fish oil, and is try-
ing to marrv the heiress of an oil-well boomer, ana
I know of a British coolie who sells fish-oil and nas
married an heiress. Lastly the Britisher yells , Ru e
Britannia ” and remarks that it “first at Heaven s com-
mand arose from out the azure main,” and the Jap
shrieks “ Banzai! ” when he is not engaged in a con-
spiracy to chivvy his little Mikado off the throne o
Nippon. Under all these circumstances, a Jap-British
treaty was a natural thing. But the Jap is tired his
ally, and despises the alliance because a treaty with a
Protectionist power is of value and a treaty with a r ree-
trade country doesn’t amount to a hill of beans.
* * * *
The fat and tyrannical Melbourne Tram-
way Co. notified its employees the other day that
from April 1 the hours of its gripmen and con-
ductors would be reduced from 54 to 48 per week,
without any reduction of wages from the present
545. and 50s. respectively. Other changes—
mostly the result of the reduction
of hours —are also to be made.
The co. explains this burst of
generosity by the fact that Par-
liament has abstained from ap-
pointing a Wages Board or revis-
ing the co.’s fares. While the
shortening of hours is welcome
enough, the co.’s explanation is
simply snuffle. The tramway
men, being now organised in
three States and registered under
Federal law, have already de-
cided that they don’t want a
Wages Board, but will take their
claims to the Federal Arbitration
Court; so the fact that they
haven’t got a Wages Board
doesn’t affect them in the smallest
degree, and it won t affect the
co. either. In fact, what the
co. does see is an awkward
Federal Arbitration case; so it
promptly comes down before it is
shot. As for the revision of the
fares, that matter is still to come
'up, for the Select Committee
hasn’t yet fired in its report.
In reality the company’s gener-
osity resembles certain persons’
gratitude. It merely evinces a
lively sense of disasters to come.
No doubt, too, the co. is look-
ing for a bait with which to
hook a renewal of its lease in
1916. That an attempt to get an extension will
be made is almost certain, wherefore Melbourne
cannot keep its eyes too wide open in any matter
in which the co. is concerned.
* * * *
“ Wealsman ” throws some light on the
horrors of the Post Office: —
I am sighing over the discovery of another Lost Oppor-
tunity. In 1896, in response to a letter from Mary Gil-
more, who was then ih Paraguay, I rushed out into the Tas-
manian bush and collected a handful of black wattle seeds to
send her. I have just found out, after 14 years, that the
wretched Post-Office authorities have not yet delivered
the seeds to the addressee, with the result that the splen-
did grove of wattles, from which the poets of Paraguay
might be stripping the bark or plucking inspiration,
simplv does not exist. On New Year’s Day of this year
(1911) the package, neatly sealed and addressed to ‘ Miss
M. J. Cameron, Cosine, via Ascuncion, Paraguay,
South America” (that’s Mary Gilmore), came back
into mv hands. The wife suggested planting
the parcel in our own back yard. I acquiesced in
the burial, in a broken flower-pot. To-day (January 14),
we find that we own a plantation of wattles exactly
three-eighths of, an inch high, and thick in proportion.
If our wattle-grove flourishes as it deserves the trees
will be ready to strip about 1915. If E. J. Brady likes to
make application at once, and if Mary Gilmore doesnt
claim against him, he may have the sole right, title and
interest in the bark of those wattles on December 31,
1915 • provided always that the Australian nation doesn t
n eed’ the product aforementioned for the purpose of
tanning the hide of an invader.
p_g._How many years does wattle-seed retain life !
jf.B. The above opportunity was lost before the Com-
monwealth took charge of the Post Office. At the same
time it must be understood that I have no desire to cast
all the blame on the State Government which then con-
trolled postal matters. After a lapse of 14 years one
must forgive, or at least forget.
LOOKING AHEAD.
HR: “ Who is she wearing the Hack for—her last husband?"
SHR : “ No, for her next. She looks so stunning in it!"
The city fathers of Melbourne have just
about given up the dust nuisance as a bad job;
they have been fully 10 years vainly trying to
modernise the building regulations that were
drawn up in 1859 ; they have spent two years in
“perfecting” taxi-cab regulations that prove to
be a farce and a joke. But they have risen to the
occasion at last. They are calling tenders for a.
£lOOO lift, a new marble-tiled crush lobby, a new
£lOOO kitchen, a reinforced concrete pantry, and a
new Gaud Mayor’s refreshment room, besides
other fal-de-rals in the feeding and drinking line.
Oh yes, they can “do the thing properly” at
times !
The dogs are barking with hilarity, these
days, at Maoriland’s attempts to suppress the
“ derink.” Maori and white alike treat the law
with affable derision. The prophet Rua, in the
wild Urewera, has had his premises raided and a
lot of “waipiro” seized. Lawan’order alleges
that he has been making another profit out of his
thirsty followers. The “dry” King country
keeps up its steady crop of £25 and £5O fines and
plain “jug.” Then a Wellington police-court
audience saw, with bitter pangs, the other day,
about 300 full bottles of beer carried off to be
wasted after the conviction of the previous owner
for Sunday sly grog-selling. And among a lot of
similar news comes the bitter cry of Ashburton, for
long the star district of the No-License argument.
The Christchurch brewers had not sufficient two-
gallon receptacles to supply the holiday needs of
that alleged arid spot. Good coin had there-
fore to be restored to the senders, and with loud
and husky outcries the latter went dry com-
pelled, not by the law, but by a famine in kegs.
IN THE INTERESTS OF HEALTH.
“The practice of kissing is one, of course, that should
be steadily discouraged,” said Dr Philip Sydney Jones
when enumerating- at the Science Congress the measures
necessary to check the spread of consumption.
“So you've broken off your engagement with
Reggie?”
“ Yes , I should think so. He’s read that kissing
should be stopped for fear of consumption;
and—well, fancy being engaged to a man
who’s so easily frightened."
THE KISSING CHUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The practice of kissing- is one, of course, that should
be steadilv discouraged,” said Dr. Philip Sydney Jones
when enumerating at the Science Congress the measures
necessary to check the spread of consumption.
Ah, Philip Jones,
Your doleful tones
Strike anguish through the nation ;
Your cold “of course ”
Would cause a horse
To rear in agitation.
How can you cry, without remorse,
“ Discourage osculation ! ”
Oh, Sydney Jones !
Hark to the groans
Ascending, blent with hissing !
Prithee, avaunt 1
What ive all want
Is something that’s been missing
Our whole life long—a League to flaunt
The banner of More Kissing 1
P. Sydney Jones!
’Twould warm our bones
If someone had the gumption
To form a band
Throughout the land
(Please pardon our presumption)—
Give us a Nice Girls’ Kissing League—
We’ll risk your old consumption !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
THE WOWSER UNASHAMED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ We feel we are not ashamed to be called wowsers,”
cried Mr. Snowball.— Argus report, 10/If 11.
The wowser rose and smote the air with swift, emphatic
blows.
“A wowser 1!” he said. . .and yet upon the words
there rose
No blush of shame to stain hischiv., no crimson dyed his
cheek,
And not a single groan went up from those who heard
him speak.
He crunched his frantic fists again, and raised his voice .
some more,
And spoke in a stentorian tone of various things in store
For those who do not .wowse, their minds on worldly
pleasures set,
And said in heated tones that Wowsers Would Be
Wowsers Yet 1
“Oh, honored name!” he bellowed, while his wowser-
whiskers bobbed,
“ I am —I am a wowser ! Oh, I am,” he almost sobbed ;
And all around the crowded room more wowsers rose to
cheer
Their fellow-wowser, wowsing without shame and with-
out fear.
“ No shame we feel,” the wowser yelled, “ no shrinking—
not a shrink—
From what the world may say of us ; for what we say we
think....
And what we think, we say—if there’s a kind reporter
near.”
Again those wowsers rose and howled: “Hooray!” or
else “ Hear, hear !”
His breath came fast, his shirt-front heaved and fell and
heaved again ;
Emotion clogged his fount of speech like storm-dirt in a
drain ;
All sorts of hot and burning thoughts flashed through
his large, bare head,
And when at length he spoke, “ The wowser knows no
shame ! ” he said.
“ Hooray 1 ” the meeting roared with joy., “ Well said 1 ’
and “ Good enough 1 ”
And banged its gamp upon the floor. “Hooray! Oh,
that’s the stuff 1 ”
And cheeted him to the echo, madly eager to acclaim
Him wowser, wild, long-winded and without the slightest
shame.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HESTY.


DAP
WONT YOU USE
what is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
Sunlight Soap has once a
been tried.
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER TNC
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1 908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED.
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NO. 67.
ing an
|y^hinl
HEADACHE and MIGRIM, two curses of modern
civilised life, are in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred
closely connected with functional disturbance of the
bowels. The simplest and best of all remedies for the
latter trouble is a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Janos”
natural aperient water taken before breakfast every
second or third morning.*
If you want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold: only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,.
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance-
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
ħ
This 2=Piece Linen
Crash Suit = = =
211-
This is the finest Summer Suit of its kind any money will
buy you.
We’ve sold so many .this season—one person recommending
them to another—that we had to cable for another shipment of
the material.
These are to hand now—but they’ll go quicker than our first
lot—every indication points to that.
Order one now—the color is a Buff ground, relieved by a
White Stripe running through it. The cut is distinctive—and
we have the size to fit you, pre-shrunken so that it will retain its
fit. Send us your waist, chest and inside leg measures when
you order. Price 21/-. Posted i/- extra; Inter-State 1/6 extra.
PEAPES CO. LTD.
“Men's Outfitters,**
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
T-lie pioneer’s habit of grabbing everything
grabable threatens to cause trouble in Bent’s old
Brighton haunts. A few weeks back the Chats-
worth Estate, at Middle Brighton, was subdivided.
Some of the blocks which have frontages to the
Bay were sold, with the right to fence off the
land right down to lov) water mark. There is no
particular advantage about this, as a bathing box
or a landing stage must necessarily be above low
water mark, and you can’t grow cabbages or car-
nations on the tide-washed foreshore; neverthe-
less, those who bought the blocks have proceeded
to fence them in as per contract, which obviously
prevents the public from promenading along the
bay side as aforetime. Now, therefore, there is,
talk of compensation ; but it is safe to say it won’t
come out of the pockets of the previous owners of
Ohatsworth, who are quit of the business, or of
the early pioneers, who have also ceased to be
interested in the matter.
* * * ■ ft
Private Enterprise gave another instance
of how it “ can always do the thing better ” when
the comic little ferry service across the Port Mel-
bourne to Williamstown soup tureen fell to pieces, '
and ’Townies who wanted to get to business had '
to go round by train or swim across. P.E. has
apparently only one liner available, and also only
one commodore or admiral; and when this com-
modore or admiral was recently desired to reduce -
his crew from five to four he refused, saying the
Marine Board regulations didn’t allow of it.
Thereupon he was put on the retired list, and, no
other commander being immediately obtainable,
the fleet ceased running for the day,
* * * *
Many of the South African farm-burners
have, so to speak, shot, bayoneted and buried the
shost of the Fowlyard Campaign
and heaped stones of industry
on its grave. But the feathers
of the murdered rooster
will persist in staying
above ground, and with
every wind they are
liable to blow up and
hit the ex-Cohentim
gen ter in the face.
Thus the other
morning a cable
came from Van-
couver that efforts
were being made
in Canada to hire
ex-Kruger-erushers
at, £2OO per month
to go down to
Mexico and help
knock out the aged
Diaz. It is under-
stood that the enor-
mous wages were to
be supplied by various
gold-bugs who hope to
benefit by the old Pre-
sident’s overthrow. Evi-
d§ntly these cold-blooded Yankees reckon that
any patriot who has been out Boerbustering can
be hired to go filibustering ; and The Bulletin
hasn’t said such an unpleasant thing as that
about them in all its days.
THE SERIOUS LIFE.
GUS (at the end of a long argument): “Is a
woman to give herself up wholly to pleasure ?
Is there not a serious side to life? Is it to
be ALL bridge and frivolity? ” (Looks at his
watch.) “Great Scot! I’ll be late for the
links !”
HEM!
MARY : "Oh, George Likes me in anything.”
JANK: “Different to Dick. He likes me in
nothing.”
If the Commonwealth Government thinks
of celebrating the Coronation with a concert,
the State Premiers, who propose borrowing
£30,000,000, might be induced to sing to their
constituents that pathetic old song, “ Come Back
to Aaron.”
* * * *
April 1 can be heard climbing up the
rungs of lime with the Australian census-papers.
Apart from the solving of many other important
questions, the returns will decide the argument
between Federal Statist Knibbs and N. S. Wales
Statist Trivett as to Ma’s population. Although
there is a startling discrepancy in their totals,
both the Federal and the State offices are cock-
sure of the correctness of their figures, and there
are tales of fierce betting between partisans.
Backers of the Federal office are throwing in a
shade of odds in face of the terrible “ howler” the
State people made in their calculations on the
railway superannuation scheme; but why it
should be only a “ shade ”of odds isn’t clear. If
the betting is influenced by the railway super-
annuation blunder, the odds in favor of the Com-
monwealth Department should be as tall as the
top hat that Andy Fisher is going to wehr pre-
sently in London when he is doing nothing worth
while for Australia.
“ Gil Gunnia ” : I
move that a Minister fot
Domestic Science and
Educational Hygiene Ke
appointed in iieu of the
proposed Minister of
Grace and Elegance. This
is a bedrock motion. Let
us start right on the bot-
tom rung and build up a
nation of good bone,
muscle, blood and sinew.
Year by year Australia is
losing a very large per-
centage of the infants who,
20 years hence, should be
bearing arms ; and nothing
but the intervention of
law will materially reduce
the loss. Of those who
survive the ills of the first
few years, another large
percentage start on their
life with lowered vitality,
weakened constitutions
and chronic ills, much of
which is due to the ignor-
ance of the nation’s
mothers. Hence the new
Minister’s duties would
be, inter alia , to —
GO Provide public institu-
tions where women might
graduate in domestic econo-
my, in the home treatment of
children’s ailments, and in
the proper feeding and cloth-
ing of infants. A severe
penalty for any woman refus.
ing to do the course.
(b) Appoint nurses or medi-
cally-qualified women in bush
centres for free attendance in
children’s ailments.
(c) Establish absolutely hy-
gienic conditions in schools.
In connection with the
last matter the Minister
would have the job of es-
tablishing school-kitchens,
where the poorer children
would be supplied with nourishing food—it system
now in vogue in the German kindergartens ; and
if Germany can’t do anything else it, any-
how, can teach us how to produce wonderful
fighting machines. This scheme has not
the same amount of trimmings as “Henry
Horsecollar’s ”; but I’ll back it against his
for plain, every-day wear.
* * * *
Memories of Wren’s Tote and betting
club were revived by the recent prosecm
tion of a Melbourne detective for “per-
jury.” In two or three cases the rare,
occasional policeman who had failed in
an attempt to “pot” Wren were subse-
quently prosecuted for perjury—and ac-
quitted. This most recent charge was
brought against a detective who had sworn
that he becked a horse, with a certain man
at a Melbourne street corner. The prose-
cution produced a number of witnesses of
the pony-meeting class; but the man him-
self, who had been fined for street bet-
ting on the evidence of the alleged per-
jurer, did not make a personal appearance
in support of his own case. Thereupon
Magistrate Creswell dismissed the charge.
He would not send a man for trial where
the person who made the allegation would
not go into the witness box. He would re-
frain from saying anything in regard to
the witnesses in case it should go before
another Court. But, judging by past
happenings, there is very little chance of
any other proceedings. Themost impudent
charges of perjury have been brought
against policemen by gamblers who were
rightly prosecuted ; but when the per-
jury charge blew out, there never was a
prosecution of the parties who had en-
gineered it. The false perjury charge
appears to be a weapon of intimidation,
which any reckless citizen may use with
impunity. The Crown Law Dept, fre-
quently prosecutes perjurers of the one sort.
It takes no notice of the other sort, who
have attempted" to punish a prosecutor for
telling the truth.
Melbourne is to have shortly an exhibition
of oil and water color paintings, which, in the
woYds of the organisers, will be an attempt at
“creating a permanent market for Australian
Art.” It will take place at the Guild Hall, near
the Public Library, and last six weeks. The pro-
prietor of the Guild Hall supplies the premises,
and the management is in the hands of L. Gill,
who has lived among pictures all his life, and is an
expert in the gentle art of selling them. Artists
are invited to hire a screen (14ft. x for one
guinea, or half the space for half a guinea if
they don’t want the whole of it, on condition
that they pay a liberal commission on any sales
that may result. The management will advertise
the exhibition and prepare catalogues and dis-
tribute them gratis to a public that will pay
nothing for admission. Seeing that artists have
not done much good by running their own shows
in Melbourne, this attempt to make a permanent
market for their work deserves encouragement.
There is space in the Guild Hall for a lot of
screens and a large number of possible purchasers
at a time ; and the, big room will, ijftdreover, have
the commercial atmosphere that is As necessary to
a bargain-sale of pictures as a good top light.
The first show opens on March 1.
Market report from a person in the wild-
cat trade :
T°mat°es in Sydney, return growers less than 6d. a
case. And Tomato Tom ” Jessep, left-out N.S.W le<ds-
'ait°r - ‘ s ' n the business. Clearly, Popery is mixed-up
with the too prolific, and therefore unprofitable, tomato
plots. Meanwhile, potatoes—murphies—through blight
in Tasmania and cutting out of other sources of supply
are, at famine prices, the aristocrats and dictators among
vegetables. Another illustration of the nefarious influ-
ences of the Roman Pontiff. Oranges are out of season,
and Easter eggs are tending up’ards. Incidentally, the
rejuvenated Cardinal is ecclesiastically in excelsis. He
has called a conference of clerical notabilities to settle the
education question offhand.
* * * *
Charles Edmondson, the man who is
accused of being the tiger that has been carrying
off sheep for years past at Tantanoola (S.A.), has
been committed for trial, without bail. A youth
of 20, described by counsel as “the fool who did
the dirty work,” told the Court a yarn of how he
helped the tiger with the skinning, and occa-
sionally did the marketing. According to this
story, the energetic Private Enterpriser sometimes
shot passing sheep with a rifle and sometimes ran
a whole mob into the races and corrals in the
dense ti-tree scrub. Whether Edmondson or
somebody else was the tiger, it was a vigorous
beast. One local farmer swore that he alone had
lost on the average 200 sheep a year for the last
seven years.
* * * *
The Oldest Inhabitant discovers another
pub or two
“ By order of the executors of George Donnelly,” the
old inn known as the A.J.C. Hotel is to be sold. In the
Ws this place was the Newmarket, and was kept by J.
Dillon. In the early ’7o’s Mr. Dillon changed its name to the
Halfway House. Then George Donnelly came in, and
towards the end of the ’Bo’s changed it to the A.J.O. At
one time it was occupied by Johnny Cutts, who rode
Archer for De Mestre in the first two Melbourne Cups,
winning each time. In the old racing reports “passing
Cutt’s” was always mentioned ; you got a good view of
it from the press stand. Another old hostelry still
stands at The Coach and Horses, kept at one
time by a vyell-known sport and racing official, VV. P.
Bowes, who was afterwards killed while hunting at
Foot.-cray (Vie.). Like his compeer, George Watson ,
Bowes was a fearless, not to say reckle.-s, rider.
HIS POINT OF VIEW.
“ Father says you'd, never be able to keep me, and
he'd just have to see me starve to death."
“ Well , if Ads as callous-hearted ns all that I
don’t think I’d care to be related to him."
These South Americans are a short-
tempered lot. Bolivian troops were reported, a
few days back, to have attacked the Peruvian
garrison at Guayabal, and, the Peruvians’ bite
not being equal to their bark, many of them had
to submit to the indignity, not to say annoyance,
of being killed or wounded. The cable adds that
the incident is likely to lead to an open rupture*
between the two countries—which shows how in.
wrong construction put upon a little bit of inno-
cent murder may disturb the amity of nations.
LITTLE MAKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hon. secretary (Mrs. So-and-So) acknowledges with
thanks contributions from the following- to the fund
being- raised by the Maries of the British Empire for a
to Queen Mary on the occasion of the Coronation.
[Here followeth a list of Maries.]— Argus.
There’s a “ loyal ” Melbourne matron raising money for
the Queen
From Little Maries ;
It will buy for her a salver, or a plated soup tureen,
From Little Maries.
Because her royal moniker is just the same as theirs,
They will add their precious present to the other house-
hold wares,
And no do tbt that Gracious Lady will be mentioned in
the prayers
Of Little Maries.
Maries, Maries, silly little Maries.
They are some of them in kitchens or in dairies,
And the sec. upon the job,
Who :s probably a snob,
Collects the cash from Little Maries.
There are women, also children, who are getting “ rats ”
inside
Their “ Little Maries,”
(This is wintertime in Britain, and they mutter “ Woe be-
tide
Our ‘ Little Maries ’ ! ")
If the silver which the matron is receiving now with
thanks
Were devoted to some people who have nothing in the
banks,
It would help to put some flesh upon the shrunken little
shanks
Of many Maries.
Maries, Maries; meagre little Maries
Oh, scant enough and poor enough their fare is ;
But we’ll simply let ’em drift,
For the Queen must have her gift,
And the fund is raised by Little Maries.
VICTORIA.
O.K.
ARCHBISHOPS AND BATTLESHIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Tuesday.—Mrs. Randall Davidson, wife of the
Primate (Most Rev. Dr. Randall Davidson, Archbishop of
Canterbury) will launch the Dreadnought Thunderer
from the Thames yards on February 1. The Primate will
participate, presiding at a service of dedication and bene-
diction.—Cable.
“ Peace ! Peace on earth, goodwill towards men ! ”
From all the tow’ring pipes it streams ;
Its anthem done, the organ then
Relapses into dust and dreams.
Thegoqd Archbishop speaks of Death
In language for a monarch fit;
Then; when His Grace is out of breath,
His smiling lady launches it !
Incense and lyddite ! Shell and prayers !
The sinners now are surely done !
If he can’t drag them up the stairs, I
She’ll blow them skyward with a gun.
n.s. w.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


“ WILBERFORCE ” Sluicing: Pumps For Sale.
1 10in. Gravel Pump.
1 12in. Water Pump.
1 10in. Swivel Gland and Bend.
1 llin. Delivery Flap Valve and Bend.
1 Ejector and Cock complete.
1 11in. Giant Nozzle.
N.B.—These Pumps were selected by Experts and they are perfectly new, and can be inspected in our
Sydney Stores. Will sell 20 per cent, below cost, owing to a Sluicing Company, for whom they were
intended, going into liquidation. If required, we can' offer 2 “Robey’’ Portable Steam Engines to
work the above Pumps, viz., 25 Nominal H.P. and 30 Nominal H.P.
Appiy-ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER 8 CO., Circular Quay, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
BdT “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY_ COMBINE
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia, which
had a revaluation of assets in 1901, and transferred
£143,000 of forfeited capital to reserves in 1902 :
Dividends
Profits (3 p.c.)
(less loss on Writ- Added
on Assets Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. Off. serves, serves.
June,’o3.. £37,442 £31,759 £5,683 £193,413
Capital forfeited .. 2,500 195,913
Dec., ’03.. 40,638 31,759 8,879 204,792
Capital forfeited .. 1,500 206,292
June,’o4.. 55.746 31,759 £15,521 197,758
Dec., ’04.. 41,461 31,760 9,701 207,459
June,’os.. 39,470 31,760 5,000 2,710 210,169
Dec., ’05.. 42,530 31,760 10,770 220,939
June,’o6.. 41,055 31,760 5,000 4,295 225,234
Dec., ’06.. 44,351 31,760 12,591 237,825
June,'o7.. 46.423 31,760 5,000 9,663 247,488
Dec., ’07.. 51,678 31,760 19,918 267,406
June,’oB.. 52,015 31,760 6,000 15,255 282,661
Dec., ’OB.. 55,217 31,760 23,457 306,118
Written off, £295,000 .. 11,118
June,’o9.. 53,573 31,760 25,000 7,931
Dec., ’09.. 56,302 31,760 25,000 7,473
June, TO.. 55,002 31,760 25,000 \ „
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident Fund / 3,/ it)
Dec., TO.. 59,557 31,760 25,000 2,797 6,512
There are 211,735 pref. shafes fully paid to £lO and
191,238 ordinary shares paid to 10s. The prefs., which
were issued in exchange for old deposits when the clean-
ing-up took place after the smash of 1893, are limited to
4 per cent. ; at present they get 3 per cent. The ordi-
naries don’t get any thing; but by-and-bye, if all
goes well, they may get something very substantial,
though what they get will depend on the prefs., who
have the heavy end of the log in the voting. The prefs.
can’t get more than £84,694 a year ; and if there were
altogether £lOO,OOO to divide, the ordinaries would get
16 per cent, if the prefs. agreed to let them have it.
And £lOO,OOO wouldn’t be anything tremendous for a
bank of this size to divide when it felt quite well; in
fact, already its profits exceed £114,000 a year. Further,
as not half the entire profits of the business are being
divided, large sums of money are being accumulated ; and
these are presumably at work and gradually increasing
the total of annual profits.
Nominally the bank didn’t attempt to handle
the old trouble itself. Rightly or wrongly, it passed the
worst looking of its assets oyer to a Trust Co., which
also, of course, nominally assumed the corresponding
liabilities; but the bank guarantees that those lia-
bilities will be met. In other words, the capital is mort-
gaged to the old depositors, though the present bank’s
depositors and other creditors have a first mortgage.
The table shows amounts written off—£2s,ooo for the
past half-year. Of that total £5OOO comes off premises ;
the other £20,000 is set aside to wipe out the old defici-
ency—that is, the difference between the Trust Co.’s
liabilities and the value of the assets. Every £20,000 thus
put aside is £20,000 lifted off the deficiency which the
shareholders must make good out of capital.
Though the Trust Co. is nominally separate,
the business of the two—the bank and the Trust —is
therefore really one. Six months ago the accounts
showed that the Trust’s estimated deficiency was
£1,008,548. The £20,000 applied to the reduction of that
deficit would bring it to £988,548. But as the present
accounts set the estimated deficiency at £952,070, a pro-
fit of £6478 seems to have been made somehow, probably
from the repurchase of old deposits at a discount. Treat-
ing the two as one business, we now therefore get this
result:—
Pref. Writ- To
Dividend ten Reduce
Profit. 3 p.c. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1908.. -- £1,080,391
June, 1909.. £58,301 £31,760 £5OOO £21,541 1,058,850
Dec., 1909.. 66,711 31,760 5000 29,951 1,028,899
June, 1910.. 62,826 31,760 £OOOl 1001099
Provident Fund „ 2000/ 24 ’ 066 b 004,833
Dec., 1910.. 66,035 31,760 5000 29,275 975,558
The deficit shown there is the Trust’s deficiency less the
bank’s reserves shown in the first table. As at December,
1901, the net deficit was estimated at £1,507,284. Since
it now stands at £975,558, no less than £531,726 of the
old dead horse has been cleared away in nine years.
But that is partly made up of forfeited capital,
as shown right at the beginning of these remarks.
Something like £375,000 has, however, been provided
out of profits. Apart from £20,000 written off premises
in two years, £104,833 of profit has gone back into the
business to reinstate the capital that was lost in the old
mad times. If it has taken two years to wipe out
£104,833 of deficiency, it looks as though it should take
about 19 to wipe out the remaining total deficiency of
£975,558. But the rule of three doesn’t always apply in
a case of this kind. As profits are accumulated,
there ought to be each year a little more avail-
able to set aside; though, of course, it is
quite probable that, some time or other, the pref.
shareholders may get first a rise to 3£ per cent,
and then a riot very dizzy 4 per cent. Further, the de-
ficiency' is only' an estimate ; and if the management of
to-day errs on the side of caution, and makes things out
to be a bit worse than they really, are in case of accident
by-and-bye, nobody could blame it much. How it
arrives at its estimate this paper hasn’t any idea. The
matter is put this way ;
Liabilities of Trust .. .. ..£1,552,842
Estimated value of assets .. .. 575,000
Deficiency .. .. .. .. £977,842
Yet, in the same accounts it is set out that the estimated
deficiency of the Trust is £982,070. This paper doesn’t
know how the two are to be reconciled. The fact that
the two don’t agree suggests that a few tens of thousands
are neither here nor there ; and the chances are that the
estimate is made on the safe side. If the deficiency is
the full £975,558 shown above, then—
Capital .. .. .. .. £2,212,969
Deficiency' .. .. .. .. 975,558
Capital Intact .. .. £1,237,411
That is 56 per cent, of the capital.
With only £575,000 of old assets left, the ques-
tion arises whether the appearance of things wouldn’t be
improved to the advantage of the business by wiping up
the old finess finally. This would linvolve the writing-
down of capital; most likely, also, something would
ha,ve to be done to put the two lots of shares on one
platform. As a preliminary, of course, there would
have to be a revaluation of assets. In favor of the speedy
cleaning-up is the fact that a bank always must be pre-
judiced which pays nothing at all on one lot of shares and
only 3 per cent, on another lot. The amazing thing is
that, in spite of this handicap, it has done so well. Be-
sides, what is to be gained by hanging up things for
years? Suppose the present policy is pursued until the
whole capital of £2,212,969 is restored. On a modest esti-
mate a bank ought to make 7 per cent, on its capital and
reserves. That, on the capital, would mean £154,906.
The maximum 4 per cent, on prefs. would absorb £84,694,
leaving £70,212— enough to pay over 70 per cent, on the
microscopic ordinary capital. No doubt ordinary share-
holders will say that that will suit them nicely. But
they haven’t got a hope of getting anything like that;
for the pref. shareholders rule the roost—every share
carries one vote, and there are over 20,000 more prefs.
than ordinaries. While the smudge still remains on the
balance-sheet, ordinaries will probably have to go with-
out any div. at all ; so they are as much interested as
prefs. are in wiping it out. As the bank has long ago left
off being the fool ii, was 20 years ago, there is nothing to
be gained and much to be lost by advertising the old foliv
twice a year.
As to current business:—
Liabilities.
Dec., 1909. Dec., 1910.
Notes £210,768 £257,135 Inc. £46,367
Bills, etc. .. .. 518,740 491,681 Dec. 27.059
Free deposits.. .. 2,608,318 3,188,757 Inc. 580,439
Deposits at interest.. 2,270,576 2,606,391 The. 335,815
Liquid assets .. .. 3,037,420 3,025,624 Dec. 11,796
Advances .. ..4,584,054 5,327,617 Inc. 743,563
Premises, etc. .. 434,173 437,735 Inc. 3,562
Notwithstanding the big increase in advances, the cash
position continues extraordinarily strong ; and there is
an apparently solid foundation for a big and profitable
business.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria
Dividends.
■■ Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c, 3£ p.c. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £34,354 £10,419 £18,572 £5,363 £160,172
June, 1904.. 34,555 10,419 18,572 5,564 165,736
Dec., 1904 .. 34,583 10,419 18,572 5,592 171,328
4 p.c.
June, 1905.. 34,200 10,419 21,225 2,616 173,944
Dec., 1905 .. 34,524 10,419 21,225 2,880 176,824
4£ p.c.
June, 1906 .. 37,212 10,419 23,878 2,915 179,739
5 p.c.
Dec., 1906 .. 42,912 10,419 26,531 5,962 185,701
June, 1907.. 43,739 10,419 26,531 6,789 192,490
Dec., 1907 .. 49,921 10,419 26,531 12,971 205,461
June, 1908.. 50,063 10,419 26,531 13,113 218,574
Dec., 1908 .. 50,394 10,419 26,531 13,444 232,018
June, 1909 .. 40,605 10,419 26,531 3,655 235,673
Dec., 1909 .. 50,198 10,419 26,531 13,248 248,921
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
June, 1910 .. 50,012 12,503 31,837 5,672 254,593
Dec., 1910 .. 52,097 12,503 31,837 7,757 262,350
Scarcely a bank in Australia shows a smaller addition to
visible reserves. For the past 12 months a poor 12 percent,
of the total disclosed profits has been added to the little
pile. Most of the trouble has, no doubt, been due to the
fact that the capital has been and still is large compared
with the business, wherefore even a very moderate rate of
div. absorbs a very big amount of profit; and that again is
partly due to the fact that, when the usual reconstruc-
tion happened aft?r the financial drunk of 19 or 20 years
ago, nearly half a million of pref. capital was created by
allowing the old depositors to take one-fifth of their
deposits in this kind of stock. Further, it is just about
certain that, when it did its cleaning up, the
bank didn’t do the job thoroughly. For years subse-
quently it was realising securities which had been
thrown on its hands, and it is also just about certain
that it wasn’t getting 20s.,in the £ for them ;.and that
deficiency had to be made good out of profits. You can’t
tell, therefore, the improvement there has been in the
strength of a bank by looking only at the increase in the
size of the reserves. In other words, at the start the re-
serves may be bogus ; in fact, they are bogus if the assets
are overvalued. This is the excuse that may be offered
for the wretched little additions to visible reserves. The
chances are that, not having originally taken shareholders
and the public into its confidence, and not having owned
up that it hadn’t written off enough capital, the manage-
ment has been obliged to do furtively what it would
otherwise havedone openly ; wherefore, instead of piling
up a heap, it has had to fill up an abyss. And, not hav-
ing owned up to the abyss, it couldn’t mention the pro-
fits that were being poured into it.
Whether the abyss has been now filled up The
Bulletin doesn’t know. In fact, The Bulletin only
assumes the abyss. But there certainly doesn’t appear
to be even now any unacknowledged pile of reserves ;
that is to say, it doesn’t appear that the assets are, on the
whole, liable to return the bank much more than they
stand at in the books. If there were any hidden reserve
of that kind a high rate Of profits calculated on the capi-
tal and visible reserves should be disclosed ; and the rate,
though much improved, is still only moderate :
June, 1906 .. £4 9 11 p.c. Dec., 1908 .. £5 18 9 p.c.
Dec., 1906 .. 5 3 6 „ June, 1909.. 5 18 4 „
June. 1907.. 5 5 4 „ Dec., 1909.. 5 17 2 „
Dec., 1907 .. 5 19 6 ~ June, 1910.. 5 15 10 „
June, 1908.. 5 18 11 „ Dec., 1910.. 6 0 3 „
If £2OOO voted to the provident fund is included, last
half-year’s rate would be £6 4s. lOd. per cent, on the
capital and reserves—which isn’t enough to suggest that
the bank has much that it doesn’t show. Certainly it
may be making more profit than it shows ; but if it has
quite finished writing down the old overvalued assets, it
isn’t likely to be hiding much profit.
The business has moved along pretty fast
lately
Liabilities.
Dec.,’o9. Dec., TO.
Notes in circulation.. £123,447 £134,086 Inc. £10,639
Bills, etc. .. .. 813,168 763;653 Dec. 49,515
Deposits at interest.. 3,935,189 4,212,229 Inq. 277,040
Free deposits.. .. 1,932,255 2,003,608 Inc. 71,323
Assets.
Liquid assets.. .. 2,527,253 2,322,086 Dec. 205,167
Advances .. .. 5,649,217 6,190,412 Inc. 541,195
Premises, etc. .. 391,501 387,780 Dec. 3,721
That shows over half A million more lent out in the 12
months—practically twice the amount of new fixed de-
posits received. The liquid assets remaining in hand
could pay 32 per cent, of all the liabilities. That
puts the bank in the light middleweight class; a
couple of points less would reduce it to the light-
weights. On the other hand, by reason of the
big capital, the depositors and other creditors are very
well protected ; the total liabilities only amount to £4 2s.
for every £1 of the shareholders’ funds. It means, in
effect, that the bank, though only moderately well fitted
to stand up against a sudden blow, is unusually well
fitted to stand a long, wearying fight.
One other comparison :
In-
crease
1900. 1910. p.c.
Notes and bills, etc. .. £799,512 £897,739 12'3
Deposits at interest .. 3,021,858 4,212,229 39'3
Free deposits .. .. 1,629,153 2,003,608 22'9
Liquid assets .. .. 1,727,666 2,322,086 34'4
Advances ... .. 4,954,624 6,190,412 24'9
Premises, etc 406,027 387,780
That is quite satisfactory. Practically a 40 per cent, in-
crease in fixed deposits in 10 years and 25 per cent,
increase in advances—if every decade showed that pro-
gress, the future would be very bright indeed, assuming,
of course, that the advances are good. And the increase
of nearly 35 per cent, in the liquid assets, while the
advances have only increased 25 per cent., indicates also
that the bank has put itself in a better position to meet
any storm that may break.
* * * *
The Queensland National Bank
Repaid
Repaid Private Nomi-
Gross Written Govern- Deposi- nal Re-
Profits. Off. ment. tors. serves.
June, 1904.. £21,822 £9,822 £3OOO £6,000 £39,000
Dec., 1904.. 21,823 9,823 9,000 42,000
June, 1905.. 22,009 10,009 9,000 45,000
Dec., 1905.. 22,307 10,307 9,000 48,000
June, 1906.. 23,421 11,421 9,000 51,000
Dec., 1906.. 30,420 14,420 12,000 55,000
June, 1907.. 34,783 18,783 12,000 59,000
Dec., 1907.. 43,606 23,606 15,000 64,000
June, 1908.. 43,482 23,482 15,000 69,000
Dec., 1908.. 43,737 18,737 20,000 74,000
June, 1909.. 44,158 19,158 20,000 79,000
Dec., 1909.. 44,432 19,432 20,000 84,000
June, 1910.. 45,626 20,626 20,000 89,000
Dee., 1910.. 46,174 21,174 20,000 94.000
W. Kidston might do much worse than get a short his-
tory of this bank printed and pasted on his bedpost.
Twenty-five y r ears ago Queensland thought it had dis.
covered a short cut to greatness. All it had to do was to
borrow and develop. It did the borrowing : then something
went wrong with the works, and just about all that was
developed was the interest burden. When things
boomed, largely on account of the expenditure of
loan money, the foreign Cohen thought he ought
to be in this good thing still further, and he'poured
monev into the Queensland banks. That only added to
the boom. Capital values soared ; and purchases being
made on that basis, the borrowers’ swag of interest
proved to be back-breaking when the first dry
stage on the track was reached. Then Cohen, who
had been like a sheep in lending, was just as
much like a sheep in withdrawing. The banks
stood it for a while ; then they had to slam their doors
in his face. For 17 years they have had their noses to
the grindstone; and so far as this greatest of them is
concerned, the depressing job isn’t anything like finished
yet.
The final general arrangement was that Govern-
ment and private depositors alike should entirely
forego interest on one-fourth of their claims; also
as to that one-fourth of the principal, private de-
positors should be repaid only out of profits.
In 1904 a small rearrangement was made as to the whole
debt to the Government. Seventeen P.N.’s were given
for £86,097 each, maturing one a year till 1921 inclusive.
The total then outstanding was £1,463,660. The fat
seasons of the last few years, and the demand for closer
settlement lands, have enabled the bank to unload itsold
assets at a great rate, with the result that, of the 17
P.N.’s, there are only four left, for a total of £344,391.
Progress with the other old debts has been
slower ; for the private depositors’ one-fourth is still only
repayable out of profits. This gives some idea of the
shifting process;—
1897. 1909. 1910.
Old debt to Government £1,833,327 £774,879 £344,391
Stock (fixed debt to old
depositors) .. .. 3,116,621 3,091,669 3,091,669
Debt to old depositors
payable out of profits.. 1,038,974 810,974 770,977
Old dubious book assets
awaiting realisation .. 742,835 171,582 141,463
The £770,977 must be got rid of before a div. can be paid,
according to counsel’s opinion ; and if it has taken 13
years to reduce the debt by £267,997, it looks as though
it would take nearly 40 to wipe out the remaining
£77 >,977. However, things are probably riot as bad as
that. This gives a better idea of what has been done :
Current Profits Repaid to Balance
Appropriated. Depositors. in Hand.
June, a i9o3 \ £66 > 000 ls - in £ = £51,939 £14,061
Dec.,’ 1903.. 6,000 20,061
June, 1904.. 6,000 6d. in £= 25,970 91
Dec., 1904.. 9,000 9,091
June, 1905.. 9,000 18,091
Dec., 1905.. 9,000 6d.in£= 25,970 1,121
June, 1906.. 9,000 10,121
Dec., 1906.. 12,000 22,121
June, 1907.. 12,000 6d.in£= 25,970 8,151
Dec., 1907.. 15,000 23,151
June, 1908.. 15,000 6d. in£ = 25,969 12,182
Dec., 1908.. 20,000 1 32,182
June, 1909.. 20,000 9d. in £'= 38,657 13,525
Dec., 1909.. 20,000 33,525
June, 1910.. 20,000 53,525
Dec., 1910.. 20,000 9d. in £= 38,642 34,883
£268,000 4/6 in £ = £233,117 £34,883
So, in the first nine years, 2s. in the £ w'as paid off ; in
the past four years, 2s. 6d. And the progress may' be
faster still. Hitherto, as the first table shows, large sums
have been written off assets—£4l,Boo in the past year.
That is visible profit ; only Heaven and General-Manager
Ralston and perhaps one or two others know whether
any profit has been made and not shown, being absorbed in
writing down assets internally. There used to be £742,835
of “private ledger accounts’’—dubious assets awaiting
realisation. Probably these lame ducks called for a lot
of help from profits. As one of the tables shows, the
total has now been reduced to £141,463. Three years’
surplus profits, after paying £40,000 a yeaf to the old
private depositors, could wipe that item right out. In
other words, if the present Sediment were not worth a
cent, three years could put £141,463 of written-off profits
in their place, and thus square up things. No doubt there
may be other writing down to do. But the private ledger
accounts contained what were reckoned the lamest of the
lame dncks; so in view of the general improvement in
values, there probably isn’t a great deal of writing down
to be done outside that item. If that is so, then the time
isn’t far distant when the £20,000 a half-year available for
paying off the old deposits may go up to £30,000 or £40,000.
And £40,000 a half-year would wipe out the balance in
nine years. It is even possible that some re-arrangement
might be authorised by Parliament before the full 20s. in
the £ was paid.
In any case, this fact is worth dwelling upon :
nobody is eating the profit that is being hoarded up—all
of it is being used to steadily improve the shareholders'
position. And, of course, the probability of.more rapid
repayments of the one-fourth improves'the position of
the old deposit-holders (now inscribed' deposit-stock
holders). For every £3 of that stock they were origin-
ally entitled to £1 out of profits. So far, 4s. 6d. of that £1
has been paid in 13 years. If the other 15s. 6d. Can be
paid within the next decade, obviously it adds to the
value of the deposit stock.
As for current business :
Liabilities.
1900. 1909. 1910.
Bills £53,957 £65.7851 „„„
Notes .. .. 322,000 300/000/-
Old debts .. .. 4,834,947 3,866,548’ 3,436,060
Deposits .. .. 1,576,188 4,330,068 5,515,640
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,676,817 3,335,053 4,035,168
Advances, etc. .. 4,629,679 5,288,739 5,319,644
Private ledger ac-
counts .. .. 640,934 171,582 141,463
Premises, etc. .. 279,486 284,397 288,841
The “old debts’’don’t include the balance of the one-
fourth payable out of profits. The new deposits include
£1,830,109 of Government money ; and that probably
won’t stay long. Even so, however, the liquid assets are
extraordinarily large—which suggests that the bank isn’t
rushing advances at present; and this paper has no brick
to throw at the management on that account.
* ■ * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profitte. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £322(1 5 p.c.= £2250 £976 £12,020
June, 1904.. 5352 5 „ „ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec., 1904.. , 3332 5 „ „ 2250 1082 16,204
June, 1905.. 376 S 5 „ „ 2250 1518 17,722
Dec., 1905.. 5577 6 ~ ~ 2700 2877 20,599
June, 1906.. 5466 6 ~ ~ 2700 2766 23,365
Dec., 1906 . 7061 8 ~ „ 3600 3461 26,826
June, 1907.. 4432 6 „ „ 2700 1732 28,558
Dec., 1907.. 4271 6 „ ~ 2700 1571 30,129
June, 1908.. 4892 8 „ ~ 3600 1292 31,421
Dec., 1908.. 4657 6 ~ „ 2700 1957 33,378
June, 1909.. 5965 6 „ ~ 2700 3265 36,643
Dec., 1909.. 4523 8 „ „ 3600 923 37,566
June, 1910.. 4994 7 ~ ~ 3150 1844 39,410
Dec., 1910.’. 5659 7 ~ „ 3150 2509 41,919
This was a pioneer of the now important trustee business
in Australia. Like most who have to blaaie the track, it
tripped now and then, and blazed its shins as well as the
path. Others belifeved, for instance* that the business
could be done very well with a much smaller
capital. Yet (and hereabouts the shins were
damaged badly) the co. hadn’t got very far on its career
before something happened which persuaded it
that the £60,000 of paid capital which it then had
wasn’t enough. The something was an action at law —13
years ago—arising purely out of the desire of the co, to do
the best for its clients. Thinking that trust funds in hand
awaiting: investment or distribution ougrht to be earning:
something:, it had put them on fixed deposit. If tho»u
banks hadn’t gone bung:, the co. probably never would
have known that it was doing: anything: illegal. But they
did go bung: ; and then somebody scented a possible
illegality. There was just about as much legal opinion
one way as the other; but the Courts said that the trustee
co. must pay up. It is worth digging up this skeleton now
only to suggest three things: (1) that there are risks in the
trustee business ; (2) that neither the co. nor the investor is
likely to know what they are until the tide of prosperity
is running out; and (3) that, when a client’s money is
lost, the Courts are likely to decide that the trustee co. is
liable unless the law is clearly otherwise. In view of
that tendency on the part of Courts, the time may come
when trustee cos. will make a virtue of necessity and
guarantee principal and interest, exactly as life insurance
cos. do it, provided they nominate or approve of the in-
vestment. They won’t do it for nothing, of course ; but
the requisite insurance premium will be surprisingly
small, provided a return of no more than 4 per cent, is
sought.
When this co. met the trouble mentioned above
it put up its capital to £90,000. Further, it has almost
the whole of it invested in city freehold (£65,000) and
public securities (£13,844); and there isn’t a big return
to be got out of such assets. Further, two-thirds of the
reserves are in public securities. Now, the bigness of
the capital and the spotless character of the assets are,
no doubt, very comforting to the clients; and the man
who has made the co. his executor, when he thinks of
various human possibilities, can think also of that
£131,919 of capital and reserves, all solid—and then turn
over and go comfortably to sleep. With a very small
paid capital a co. could no doubt do just as big a business
(though it wouldn’t deserve to); and, of course, such a
co.’s profits, calculated on capital and reserves, would
show up higher. Still, this co. for the past six months
earned at the rate of £8 14s. lOd. per cent, per annum ;
and a co. that can do that, with no more risks than this
one has to take, may reckon that it is doing splendidly.
And there is practically no doubt that, as the habit of
appointing a professional trustee grows, this exceedingly
well-managed co. will do still better.
* * * *
The Equitable Building and Investment Co.,
•f Wellington (M.L.): —
To Re- • Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. setVes. serves.
1902 .. £6979 10 per cent. = £5OOO £1979 £31,632
1903 .. 7502 10 ~ ~ 5000 2502 34,134
1904 .. 7208 10 ~ ~ 5000 2208 36,342
Assets written up .. .. 2750 39,092
1905 .. 7601 10 per cent. = 5000 2601 41,693
1906 .. 7906 10 „ ~5000 2906 44,599
1907 .. 8398 10 „ ~ 5000 3398 47,997
Premises written up .. .. 1000 48,997
190 S .. 7943 10 per cent. = 5000 2943 51,940
Premiums on new shares .. 4621 56,561
1909 .. 7809 10 per cent. = 5689 2120 58,681
Premiums on new shares .. 379 59,060
1910 .. 8578 10 per cent. = 5981 2597 61,657
To save time, consider the following in conjunction with
the foregoing:—
1902. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital and reserves .. £84,132 £104,440 £120,867 £124,656
Liabilities .. .. 262,156 239,827 227,292 240,924
Advances .. .. 331,590 324,956 322,020 344,960
Freeholds .. .. 6,438 12,507 12,345 10,237
Liquid assets .. .. 8,260 7,048 14,039 10,383
The first point to be considered in connection with these
deposit cos. is the safety or otherwise of the deposits.
That, of course, can’t be told absolutely from looking at
the published figures, because the securities may he
sound or they may be rotten—the co. may be able to get
20s. in the £ when it asks the borrower to pay it, or it may
only be able to get a security which will realise perhaps
a few shillings in the £. However, figures are of some
value. In this case they show that there are £344,960
(book value) of mortgages, £10,237 of freeholds, and
£10,383 of cash to meet £240,924 of liabilities, said liabili-
ties being mostly deposits. So the mortgages could
slump, in round figures, £120,000, and there would still
he enough to fill the depositors’ plates. That looks all
right. The liquid assets are weak —it’s a habit with these
Maoriland finance cos., which lean up against a bank or
some other u’ncle, and trust entirely to their uncle to see
them through in case of sudden trouble. That is a first-
rate fine-weather policy, no doubt; but these troubles
are apt to hit several concerns at once, and if one should
hit uncle at the same time as it hit uncle’s client —well,
then, the chances are that uncle’s affability* would be
quite unreliable. The capital is £60,000 in £lO shares
paid to £5.
* * * *'
The Wellington Trust, Loan and Invest-
ment 00. (Wellington, M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
1901 .. £10,040 8 per cent. = £BIOP £1940 £21,920
1902 .. 12,372 8 „ „ 8100 4272 26,192
Property written up .. .. 1000 27,192
1903 .. 10,073 8 per cent. = 8100 1973 29,165
1904 .. 10,426 8 „ „ 8100 2326 31,491
1905 .. 8 ~ ~ 8100 2813 34,304
Property written up .. .. 2000 36,304
1906 .. 11,952 8 per cent. = 8100 3852 40,156
1907 .. 12,278 8 „ „ 8100 4178 44,334
Property written down .. 1700 42,634
1908.. 10,572 8 per cent. = 8100 2472 45,106
1909 .. 10,460 8 „ „ 8100 2360 47,466
1910.. 11,369 S „ ~ 8100 3269 50,735
There are a good many people who would lie awake quite
a lot at nights if they had the management of this co.
This will explain why :
1902. 1908. 1909. 1910.
£ £ £ £
Capital and reserves .. 131,492 150,406 152,766 156,035
Liabilities .. .. 256,484 296,267 286,779 305,467
Mortgages, etc. .. 364,987 409,801 400,598 424,454
Freeholds .. .. 2,500 17,430 13,294 13,302
Book debts .. .. 4,691 5,420 5,454 5,484
Liquid assets .. .. 15,798 14,022 20,199 18,262
The liabilities, practically all under the heading “ De-
posits ahd Interest and Investors,” amount to £305,467;
while the liquid assets, before paying the last half-year’s
div., were only £18,262. No doubt the deposits are fixed
for a year- or two; but that wouldn’t save the co.
from a lot of inconvenience if the public got it
into its head that its money would be safer if
it were withdrawn. In the long run, if the co. were
able to withstand a shock, there is no doubt that the co.
could pay much more than 20s. in the £. Its liquid
assets on December 31 were, as mentioned just now,
£18,262. They would reduce the liabilities to £287,205.
And to meet that total of liabilities there are now liquid
assets valued in the books at £443,240. Thus for every
£1 owing to depositors and others, and not represented
by liquid assets, there are non-liquid assets valued at
£llos. 6d. The latter assets are chiefly “ mortgages and
other securities,” and they must be a shockingly
bad lot if they wouldn’t fetch 13s. 4d. in the £, which is
all they would have to fetch to give the co.’s creditors
20s. in the £. From that point of view the position is
quite satisfactory ; the only visible thing that isn’t satis-
factory is the risk to which the co. exposes itself by per-
sistently holding such a wretchedly' small amount of liquid
assets. The co. is in 20,000 shares of £lO each, 250 of
- them fully paid and 19,750 of them paid only to £5 ; and
that £5 liability, while it adds to the security of creditors,
ought to be a big enough hint to the shareholders to cut
out the risk they at present run from a sudden blow,
always remembering that the man who gets the black
eye isn’t invariably the one who deserves it.
* * * *
“Politicus”: The Bulletin publishes a table
(12/l/Tl) showing the scandalous extravagance of N.S.W.
in the matter of loan expenditure in the last four years.
From 1907 to 1910 the Ma State’s figures jumped from
17s. 7d. per head to £2 Is. sd. ; last year the average per
family was £lO 10s. As a Queenslander, lam proud to
say we can beat that record hollow :
1906- £l4 5 per head
1907- 117 0 „ „
1908- 2 4 1,, „
1909- 212 1 ~ „
This current year we expect to spend £1,750,000, which will
mean about £3 per head. Last financial year we spent of
1 Cohen’s money £l3 os. sd. per family ; this year, on pre-


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Having handled almost every class of
Assets, it possesses a much wider experi-
ence than is possible for an individual.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Write or Call for Booklet.
GREENING’S
SCREENING-
Agate Stee /, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building;, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
sent appearances, we shall (C.v.) run into £l5. And if we
succeed in floating our 10-million loan for the Great
Western foolishness, we propose to spend so much that
our political successors will find our record simply un-
surpassable. Also one remembers casually that Kidston
deposed Philp on account of the latter’s extravagant
endencies.
* * * »
He the Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (B. 19/1/T1).
This co.’s holding of £40,000 in the Australia Hotel Co.,
Ltd., is in ordinary and not in pref. shares. The asset
is set out in the co.’s accounts merely as “shares in
other companies.”
■K * * »
After its long spell, the Broken Hill Prop, is
putting a day shift into the underground workings. Pro-
duction will start at the end of this month.
•* * * *
The British Broken Hill Co. has its prospectus
out for £30,000 of redeemable 6 percent, debentures. The
co. undertakes to set aside 10 per cent. “ for the redemp-
tion of debentures bv annual drawings at £lO2, or by
purchases on the market at a price not exceeding £102.”
The right of redemption at £lO2 on six months’ notice is
reserved ; “and the balance of the issue will be repayable
on July 1, 1919, or in the event of the liquidation
of the co., at the same premium.” The co. is paying 3
per cent, for the underwriting. This issue should not
have been necessary ; but the co. has made a series of
mistakes, especially in connection with its plant, and
they have proved very costly. Still, with even the
present market, there is money in the mine—provided it
has good management. The Sulphide Corporation, for
instance, could make close upon £40,000 a year out of it,
and keep it going for (say) five years.
* * * *
The shaft at the Queen Bee (N.S.W.) is to be
sunk another 80ft., which will make it deep enough to
open another level. The parallel ore body at the 570 ft.
level is erratic, and it was found necessary to crosscut
after driving the level 200 ft to the south. After going a
few feet to the east, Ift. of high-grade ore was met, but
it has still to be proved whether this continues in the
direction of the south shaft, which is more than 200 ft.
ahead of the face. Hitherto the Bee has depended on the
northern shoot of ore, on which the deepest level at 570 ft.
has been driven 772 ft. Prospects at the northern end are
not too bright, but it is quite possible that payable ore
will be found at greater depth. The deep levels will have
a double objective—the development of the main north-
ern shoot and the exploration of a parallel ore channel
which can be reached bv driving a crosscut to the west.
# * * *
Great Oobar put its smelting plant to work
after about three weeks’ holiday spell, during which time
mullocking up and breaking ore underground was pushed
ahead as rapidly as possible. The main shaft also
received a much-needed overhaul. Armstrong, late of
Block 10, Broken Hill —not J.O.A.—has arrived, and
signs himself “General Mine Manager,” presumably under
Bellinger. He brought with him an underground foreman,
who replaces Stride, late underground manager, but now
manager of the recently' acquired Cobar Gold Mines. The
new storage bins and other buildings, proudly spoken of
months ago as a means of economically handling more
dirt, are slowly—very slowly—being completed. The
frame work of the bins has been in position for months ;
and if the job is not pushed faster, the white ants
will have eaten the bottom out before the top is
finished! Shaft sinking is in full swing on the co.’s
three main properties—Great Cobar, Cobar Gold Mines,
and Chesney. Baker, a director from London, is again
on the premises, and looks worried. Experiments are
being conducted on the Cobar Gold Mines with a view, no
doubt, to another process for treating this ore, as only a
comparatively small quantity can be used in the furnaces.
One thing Bellinger has done to perfection is to keep the
shift bosses on the move. It’s about time he got some to
suit him.
* » # ■*
Occidental, Cobar district, has tackled the
bottom-level dirt, and is crying out about a shortage of
labor. But this talk is taken with a wink. Labor is not
always too plentiful, certainly; but the underground
development is a little behind and the output is not
being maintained, and a certain amount of hand-picking
of the ore is going on, which doesn’t look too healthy.
Some of the chief officers sent in their resignations again a
week or so ago ; but the directors have once more used
the necessary persuasion. It's about up to the co. to
issue another circular and say something about things
in general, and especially as regards the extraction, etc.,
from the bottom-level dirt. Shareholders would be very
thankful for this information now —far more than they
were for the last circular that was issued.
* * * *
Canbelego, near Cobar (N.S.W.), is to send
400 tons of picked ore to Great Cobar. Unfortunately,
copper is too low-priced to allow these shipments of crude
ore to return a big profit; but there should be enough
margin to make it easier for shareholders to develop
their promising little mine.
* * * *
The Harden (N.S.W.) wears a smile for the
first time for months. For nearly a fortnight there have
been values in the long west drive at No. 4 ; but the
management didn’t whoop, because patches had been
found before. At last, however, when the ore was
3ft. 6in. wide and the full height of the face,
the news 'was published; and the local manage-
ment thought it worth while to cable to Free-
man and Horton, the engineers who have stood by
the show and have the biggest interest in it: “ West end
has every appearance of becoming a good body. ~ . Pre-
sent width is 3ft. 6in., value £3 14s. per ton.” Freeman
and Horton are at present on a gold-hunting expedition
jn Sumatra for the Belambangan Option Syndicate.
* * * *
Mt. David (N.S.W.) has punched in a footwall
crosscut a length of 146 ft. at No. 4 level, and a heavy
flow of water is helping to drain the new shaft, which is
being sunk under difficulties.
* * * *
G. M. Roberts, manager of the Associated
(W.A.), having married a lady who has come into a share
of Ivanhoe Hewitson’s fortune, announces his retirement
from the mine. The Associated has been such a derelict
so long that the shareholders will now perhaps hammer at
the directors to push on with something in the way of
comprehensive A new manager is, at any
rate, almost bound to set off by telling some plain truths
about the state of the mine. But whether directors who
have, apparently, hidden themselves in a' rut will be
shaken out by any manager they’ may appoint is doubtful.
* * * *
Oroya-Black Range, an offshoot of the Oroya-
Brown Hill, does not give a very reassuring statement in
its annual report. The directors state the reserves have
not kept pace with the ore milled, though the values are
about the same as those of last report. The mill has 17
months’ ore supply in sight. For the year to the end of
August, 54,180 tons were treated for £118,072, or43s. 7'o2d.
per ton. Exclusive of development, the working costs
were 255. 2'59d., or 4d. per ton less than last year. After
writing off £13,535 for development and shaft sinking,
£24,516 was carried on this, with £16,760 brought for-
ward, made a total of £41,276 available. From this two
dividends, one of Is. and the other of Is. 6d., had been
paid, leaving £16,290 to be carried forward. The directors
have good hopes of the Youanme options, held in con-
junction with the Oroya Exploration, turning out profit-
ably.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.)is attracting some notice
just now owing to a development somewhere between
the seventh and tenth levels, and by the fact that
the shaft is being opened at the 1800 ft. level, where
there are chances of something coming in from the Asso-
ciated and the Kalgurli. The co. is in 200,000 shares of
£l, and is earning over £2700 a month. It has some-
thing like Bs. a share in hand, so stands in a better posi-
tion than most Golden Mile concerns.
The Golden Horseshoe return is up to the
cabled estimate, or good enough. £32,500 was promised
and £32,092 was declared. Unfortunately, the grade ran
below estimates, showing a little over 275. 6d. The work-
ing profit was £5356 and capital expenditure £5323, so
the company has £33 on which to go ahead and pay un-
expected incidentals. If Horseshoe manages to earn
£40,000 a year in dividends from this out, it will be doing
very well; but it must Hot be expected to stand even
that strain for very long.
* * * *
Oroya-Brown Hill, or rather the Oroya Ex-
ploration, still pokes its monthly return into the notice of
the Golden Link shareholders. This month the Oroya
makes a profit of £2731 from the tailings heapit would not
pass over to the amalgamation ; while the Link, which
got the plant and a derelict mine, showed a loss of £1258.
Though the main plea for the amalgamation was that the
Oroya had heaps of oxidised ore in its southern block to
work up with the Link sulphide ore, the block has been
so inconsiderate as to close up before the tailings are
finished. Link holders are, therefore, hoping some con-
sideration will be shown them. Theie is little chance for
them, though.
* * * *
While general-manager Black, of the Kalgurli
(W.A.), is dumb on the question of grade, and refuses to
give a close estimation of tonnage, he thinks it is per-
fectly safe to reckon on 400,000 tons being in sight above
1550 ft. At 1650 ft. and 1750 ft. levels considerable addi-
tional tonnage is promised, but “ work done on the ore
bodies at those levels is as yet insufficient to permit of
their inclusion as reserves.” Black has also a good word
to say for the new ore body that is being developed on
the south, end of the 100 ft. level, and opines that,
although low in value, it will show a good margin of
profit. Dividends amounting to £150,000 were paid
during the year, but with a falling grade this record is
not likelv to be maintained much longer.
* # * *
Hannan’s Star at last promises to disgorge
some of the money derived from the 3s. call, a 50 per
cent, dividend on this being declared ; and the scrip in
the new 00., representing the other 50 or less per cent., is
on its way to Australia.
* * * *
Marvel Loch (W.A.), run from Melbourne,
issues a report full of sighs and moans. “ A series of un-
toward circumstances,” the Board calls it. Some other
people call it infernally bad management. Anyway,
“ the profit on operations during the six months
amounted to £767, and it was with regret that the Board
found it necessary to resort to calls.” Various, changes
are now being made, and in a few months it may be
possible to tell whether the mine is going to have a
future.
* * * *
The Gold Industry of W.A., a local show into
which money was put by some of the, heavy weight
division of goldfields men and merchants, has (thanks to
an interest in the Bullfinch) been able to declare a divi-
dend of £1 per share. This means handing back the
whole of the subscribed capital. The company has some
nice optionson hand, and looks like beinga winnerforsome
time to come. Shallcross is mining adviser, and has been
luckier in this than in his other undertakings of recent
years.
* * * *
Ora Banda has at last given an option to, or got
one from, an English firm. Lionel Robinson and Go., who
about run Westralian mining in London, have taken over
the Gimlet for six months for £85,000 in cash and shares.
The show h s been running some time, and should pay.
As the option-holders are preparing to put machines in,
it looks as though they are fairly certain to take it over.
The ancient General Gordon, now known as the
Sirdar and run by a local directorate, ended the year
with a profit for December of £654. This places the co.
Out of debt and in possession of a credit balance. The
Gordon should have a chance this year of showing
whether there was any ground for the boom flotation in
the roaring Coolgardie days. There are rich runs of ore ;
but the bulk of the lode is below medium grade.
* * * *
Mt. Elliott (Q.)—404 tons copper, 771 oz. gold,
and 3630 z. silver during December. Taking copper at
£6O per ton, gold at £4, and silver at 25., the gross value
was £23,320, or £7 12s. lid. per ton of ore. The co. is
getting the benefit of long and careful development, and
the big open faces of rich and easily-treated ore are turn-
ing out some stunning material. The extraction aver-
aged 13’2 per cent, copper, which is a very high re-
turn compared with the 3 per cent, ore showing in the
bottom levels. As the manager says, the 3 per cent, stuff
will be treated at some future time. This is
a strong reminder that the present high-extrac-
tion cannot be expected to last many years. Theo-
retically, Mount Elliott has 20,000 tons of copper in
reserve, contained in more than ten times that quantity
of ore. The co. is admittedly in a strong position ;by
the end of June it should hold from £150,000 to £200,000
in solid cash. But the market, influenced by the brilliant
show the mine is making at the start, has hoisted values
up to £700,000, or 70 per cent, of the gross value of re-
serves with copper at £so.'
•» * . * *
Blair Athol colliery is 11 miles from Clermont
(Q.) and 240 miles from Rockhampton. It owns a thick
seam at a shallow depth, and the tunnel that runs into
the hill for 340 ft. makes mining cheap. A second tunnel
is to be driven to bring the coal out near the railway.
The report, already mentioned, states that the profit was
£2242 for seven months; which seems to imply that
under present conditions Blair Athol can make a profit
of from Is. 6d. to 2s. per ton. No doubt the output will
be increased, and at least 60,000 tons a year is men-
tioned. This should give an easy shilling per share—
perhaps Is. 6d. The demand for coal is, however,
limited, and competition is keen. Nor is it likely to ease
off; for they are building the Dawson River railway to
develop more coal mines. All the same, Blair Athol can
be congratulated on its thick seam and its shallow depth.
Also on the fact that it has paid a dividend; The Bul-
letin Can’t remember another colliery in North Queens-
land that has done it.
* * * *
New Einasleigh, which is 120 miles along the
Etheridge (Q.) railway, is sending better-grade ore. to
Chillagoe. A shipment of 704 tons for a fortnight aver-
aged 7'6 percent, copper. The bulk of this comes from
No. 3 level (270 ft. vertical), where the lens of ore is
Occasionally 50ft. wide, with a length of about 200 ft. Un-
fortunately, this fine ore body is cut off by a fault in the
lower level. These workings extend under the basalt,
and in close proximity to the river, but are kept dry.
The original discovery was made by Daintree more than
43 years since; but the deeper lens of ore recently de-
veloped is quite distinct from the rich patch exposed in
the river bed. Moderate progress is being made with the
erection of a somewhat elaborate treatment plant, the
most interesting section being a flotation unit.
In five weeks Brilliant Stockholm, Charters
Towers, has yielded £4755, and given the Brilliant Co. a
good profit. The payable stone is confined to a narrow
belt of country near the junction of the Stockholm with
a cross reef. The reef is small in No. 8, the deepest level;
but a crosscut recently put into the hanging wall passed
through 18in. of fair stone 26ft. from the main level.
Although this may prove a good development, it points
to disturbed conditions. The Stockholm profits keep the
Brilliant Co.’s pot boiling. And it is a big pot, for the
co. is in 260,000 shares.
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, con-
tinues to crush well ; 468 tons of stone have returned
£2873. No doubt some of the reef stone above No. 1
level rising up towards the East Mexican’s boundary is
sweetening the return. This mine paid 6s. per share last
year ; but when it became known that reserves of high
grade were very' limited, the market slumped to 10s.,
though it has lifted recently because of the strong financial
position and the improved look of things at the bottom of
the winze from No. 3. The latter is near the centre of
the lease, and may quite likely’ develop another shoot of
stone.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, is prospecting
the deep levels down to 2500 ft. with indifferent success.
It is probable that a prospecting move will be made be-
fore long to the old Day' Dawn Block and Wyndham
lease. Something should also be heard about the
Leviathan (Ravenswood Junction), which was taken up
by Mills.
Chillagoe (Q.), working reduced time during
the holidays, smelted 3091 tons for approximately 153
tons copper, 159 tons lead, 26,4820 z. silver, and 5340 z.
gold. The extraction averages a shade under 5 per cent,
copper and slightly over 5 per cent, lead ; so at present
prices there is 565. worth of copper and 13s. worth of
lead, together with over 30s. worth of gold and silver, or
a gross extracted value of from £4 10s. to £5 per ton of
ore —which is a very fine record, though costs unfortu-
nately are high. The railway revenue has been increas-
ing, but the collapse of No. 10 tunnel on the Cairns
railway has seriously affected Chillagoe traffic, and it
doesn’t seem so certain as it did a while back that the
co. will average £lO,OOO per month from its railway
throughout the financial year, which closes March 31.
* * * »
New Loch Fyne, Matlock (Vic.), has sunk so
far that it is only a memory of the days when Jamieson
paid divs. and talked about treating the big dyke on a
wholesale scale. Jamieson has gone, but the mine has
its five directors, its bankers, its two auditors, and as care-
fully a designed balance-sheet as the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary. For the people who run the show are an orderly
if somewhat non-progressive lot. One Janies Trevor admits
to the general managership, and he has ey T es above his
boots. The worst of these dyke formations is that the
included auriferous veins cut in and out like a flighty
girl at a rout. Sometimes the stone is rich, often there
is only a trace in it. So far, most of the gold has been
got iii poking about the upper ground, whereas the
policy is to treat the dyke as a big mine and work it
somewhat on the Alaska Treadwell scale. Manager
Trevor would like to see this done, but he almost despairs
of getting the boodle, as he surmises that the mine itself
must pay for any scheme of wholesale quarrying and
selection. To get the boodle Trevor wants to go
down to No. 5 level, starting his prospecting
at the No. 4 level in the main north drive.
His inducement is the presence of gold, platinum,
copper and silver in the dyke itself, and unassociated
with the quartz. This is akin to what is showing at the
Copper Mine at Walhalla, which various Mt. Lyell
johnnies have taken up, though there the copper runs
into a fair percentage and platinum to several dwts. per
ton. Indications such as Trevor describes deserve fol-
lowing. As the Board isn’t a hard-up lot, and as there
are very few forfeited shares, now is the appointed time
for the Rippins and the Mackenzies to splash their metal.
* * * *
Jack Dane does not find London quite so re-
sponsive as his pa might desire over the flotation of the
Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado. This being so, the Board isn’t
taking any chances. It is floating its barge into a new
position down the claim. To do this, shareholders have
been jacketed with half a dozen calls. The end of them
is near, now that the barge is within sight of the face.
Seeing this, and as returns ought to come without future
trouble, the Board should shut down on the London
option craze, and work the mine for Australians. The
claim is too good to be hawked.
« * * *
Sandy Creek, near Castlemaine (Vic.), is build-
ing up hopes of a revival after five years of depression. A
little claim with the high-sounding title of British and
Australian is now struggling and pondering over the
possibilities of the Grasshopper and Honeysuckle
mines. They started off on the slenderest of
threads, with a shoot of gold 14ft. x 2ft. Now they
have 45ft. x 40ft. x 3ft. Because 100 tons gave
780 z., hopes are built as high as a steeple. This
is not much to move a district on, but as Sandy
Creek has had a few surprises in its time, it is building a
lot on the foundation of that 100 tons. The Honeysuckle
hasn’t disclosed its sweetness yet, but the battery engine,
having done thumping on the 100 tons, is to help un water
this claim. Then the world will know, should results be
the same as at the Grasshopper, that “ the future of the
mine is assured.” These facts throw light on the way in
which little cos. poke about the reefs in Victoria. Some-
times they make a bit, more often they don’t. When
they do, cash flows in, and the line of reef gets a fair go
at a cost unequalled anywhere else in the world.
* * * *
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vie.), now wedded
to its neighbor, continues to remark that the prospects are
much brighter than they used to be ; and there is at last
some justification for the remark on account of the good
block of stone developed by the 2225 ft. level. The past
half-year started with a credit balance of £1332, and ends
up with £1594 in the bank ; so the once-famous old show
more than held its own, while carrying out a big pro-
gramme of development work.
Porepunkah, the Bright (Vic.) dredging co.
which got into the div. list about 18 months ago, is dis-
covering that the way of the mining co. is full of bumps.
The profits have moved like this
June, 1908 .. .. £lOO6 I Dec., 1909 .. .. £ll4l
Dec., 1908 .. 1337 June, 1910 .. .. 517
June, 1909 .. .. 921 | Dec., 1910., .. 24
The co. got into poorer ground a year ago, and in the
last few months has had very little wash. To add to its
troubles, the Mines Department stepped in and ordered
the co. to resoil the ground where there was a depth of
2ft. of dirt; and that led to expense, though things are
said to be going better again now.
* * * *
New Moon, Bendigo, came from behind its
cloud in the first part of last year ; but the Suffolk stone
lost some of its value, and the latter half was only mid-
dling, or less. Divs. ran to ss. 6d. in the first half, and
then tailed off t o 25., which brings the total to £l4lls. 6d.
since 1892—and, besides that, there was a heap of gold
taken out in the old days. The mine has got down
lately to a 4£dwt. proposition ; but with costs amounting
to only a shade over 15s. per ton there is still over fdwt.
to the good.
Tasmanian Metals is the London show that
bought the output of the Tasmanian Copper Co. from
the Rosebery mine, Mount Read, for £1 2s. 6d. per ton.
The story is that the ore is “ one of the richest yet one
of the most refractory zinc-and-lead ores in the world.”
No doubt this is why Beer and Sonnheimer, the big
European metal people, went to have a look at it some
time back. They certainly saw a tough proposition
metallurgieally, but they didn’t see the richest complex
ore in the world by a few miles. The honey is to be got
out of the pot by the bi-sulphite process, about which
there appears to be as much talk as there was silence
concerning the De Bavay process in its early youth. So
far, the bi-sulphite crowd" has got to the one-unit stage
at Rosebery, but three more units each to treat 100 tons
are on the way. The bit put up as working capital
runs into nearly £70,000. The co. has 250,000 tons to
butt into when the four units are up. J. Bull, when in
the mood, does not begrudge his cash, or he would have
yelled out for results long before this. Incidentally, the
fact that the Horwood process was in the field for the
same ore whetted his desire to keep a tight grip on the
show.
* * * *
Having, not uncleverly, managed to work the
Minister for Mines up to his highest possible bid in the
way of concessions, the Tasmanian Smelting Co., Zeehan,
and the Hercules and Primrose mining cos., have agreed
to bury the hatchet and be good business friends for ever
and ever—or at least for two years. The mining cos. are
to supply the Smelters with 80,000 tons of ore during the
next 24 months at a price which, plus the railway and
other concessions granted by the Government, will pay
the smelters. The Government railway rebate is worth
something like £7500 to the shindykit, and other conces-
sions, including one permitting £12,000 of new capital to
rank equally with the State mortgage of £20,000, are
probably worth still more. The total cost of the trans-
action to the taxpayers of the Fl.vspeck is probably
£30,000 or more ; and the State might have purchased
the Smelters for less than £30,000 a year ago, and so side-
stepped the recent and protracted slump. In addition,
the State would now have something to show for its
money ; at present it has nothing but the shindykit’s
I O U, which may have to take its chance among a whole
drove of other I O U’s in the final clean-up.
* * * *
Anxious: Don’t know; Jones’s cut was pro-
bably included with Doolette’s in the published figures.
F.P.M.: Better not.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Boiler Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be p.pplied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply’ to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* • • *
“Fkkrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. <fc O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole AgentSj King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
It takes a long period of success to justify con-
fidence in manufacturers, but for many years the product
of The Farnlby Iron Company Limited, Leeds, has been
recognised by engineers as the highest class of iron (best
Yorkshire), safe under the most onerous tests. For
Rolling Stock, Ship Building and General Engineering
Work it is indispensable, being used by all Australian
State Railways. To be obtained from Sole Agents, Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency Limited, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, and Fremantle, W.A. ; also Reid Brothers and
Russell Prop’y, Ltd., Melbourne ; and Chas. E. Bernays,
Brisbane.*
* # * *
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair than
Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has some additional improve-
ments which have justified in practice all the claims
advanced by the patentee. The work of crushing is done
on the doum-stroke of the pitman instead of the up-
stroke ; there is no strain on the pitman cap ; two large
side rods resist the thrust of the toggles, and enable the
jaws to be regulated within a large range; the back
toggle is so made as to resist all legitimate strains of
crushing, but will shear under exceptional conditions
and save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating ; the jaws are convex and concave,
and with the cheek plates are made of steel and are
reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of
South Melbourne, have installed a great number of these
machines, and hold the sole manufacturing rights for the
Commonwealth.* [3
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break
H.P. Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
* *■*■*
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
made by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only genuine,
reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, who
carry large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [2
• * • *
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, London,
of 23/9/’OS, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Limited : “There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider the
advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz., that its
policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of other such institutions, as witness the ‘ Twelve
Option’ contract lately placed on the market.”*
* * * *
Where acids and minerals are potent in soil or
water there can be no question that Wood Pipe is the
most satisfactory pipe to instal. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send catalogue on appli-
cation.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* • • •
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks on hand.*
* * * ■*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it cap
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on tha
urface or underground. The number of repeat or<|g|jf
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * • •
One of the oldest and best-known engineepipg
concerns in the Commonwealth has been converted int'p
q proprietary company with a capital of £150,000, and wifi
now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, the
governing directors being Mephan Ferguson and Robert
Shand. The head office and works are at Gordon Streey,
Footserav, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Thirty years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
■* • ■* *
Assayeks, Mink Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 ,mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lilt and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
Ideas. Yes ! that holiday might have
been more enjoyable, that camp more comfort-
able. Why? Perfection is still afar off in regard
to holiday requisites. Possessing the germ of an
improvement why let it .lie dormant? Let it
fructify and then per elevator or stairs see patent
agents Phillips Ormonde & Co., 266 Flinders
Street, Melbourne. There attention and skilled
service await you, whether your conception be an
aid to camp or country life, or associated with
transport, lighting, cooking, washing up, sleeping
out, excluding or extinguishing mosquitoes or
flies, food preservation or household devices,
mechanical.*
Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY. [3
MCKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Texas ” ; Jeffries and Johnson met this
morning to try conclusions for the feather-weight
championship in my back Stadium. Johnson
was represented by a sleek, confident crow, while
Jeffries’s end of the argument was upheld by the
white mother of five chickens. A crowd of one,
having strong sympathy with the white race, was
attracted by the sound of the disturbance, and
arrived in good time to report the proceedings :
Round 1 (and last)—Carefully depositing the bacon
against a post, Johnson, with the sun at his back,
jauntily entered the ring. Jeff slowly clucked the brood
into his corner, nervously apologising the while for all
rash statements made duriug the previous year. John-
son replied with some cutting remarks about the
display of white feather, and disparaged Jeff’s
relatives in general, with special emphasis on those
present. Roused to fury, Jeff, disdaining the time-
honored shake, closed with his opponent, landing
two clear lengths to the good at the first hurdle. John-
son then got a neat jenny into the top pocket, which
Jeff countered by clean bowling the enemy’s off stump
with, a googlie. A free kick to Johnson equalised
the scores, but a moment later Jeff came with 15-2 and a
run of five, followed by a double check to the King.
From a scrum in front, the nigger was thrown out with
the score at 40-15, and the betting seven to four on Jeff.
A lovely undercut next removed the Big Smoke’s right
eye, and he made an immediate attempt to leave the ring.
This was frustrated by the afore-mentioned crowd of one,
who closed the carnival to Jeff’s entire satisfaction with
an empty beer bottle.
Johnson has definitely retired from the ring. I
buried him.
THE COVETED CIGARETTE.
“ You bad boy! What would your father do if he
saw you smoking that cigarette! ”
"He’d pinch it for himself, missus .
AN ECHO FROM MAORILAND.
TRAVRLLER : “ How's prohibition treatin’ yer, mate ?”
RESIDENT (of recently prohibited district): “Blanky awful. Me stomach thinks me bloomin'
throat's cut ”
“Leo Lear,” in defence of Cocky
When you put “The Snake’s ” heated diatribe gainst the
farmer (B. 29/12/10) through the winnowing machine you
find it all husk and no grain.
First, as to the cocky’s honesty. Can “ The Snake
show any statistics proving cocky to be more dishonest,
untruthful, murderous, lustful, thieving, covetous, blas-
phemous, or window-smashing than lawyers, musical
conductors, butchers, miners, politicians, reporters,
dukes and loafers generally ?
Will “The Snake’’drag forth the farmer who is such
an ass as to “ half fill his potato bags with soil and
stones.” His products thereafter would be anathema,
and their price on the market slush. The same applies
to grain.
The farmer is not alone in paying the lowest wages
possible. What other employer doesn’t do ditto? Never-
theless, in my district he pays 7s. a day—an eight-hours
day—or 30s. a week. What more is the A.W.U. demand-
ing?
The man with the plough is not such a glutton at
timber destruction as the ignorant imagine. In forest
country the fat man or company that originally leased
the continent in 1000-square-mile junks did the damage
in ringbarking long before the farmer got to work on
the dead trees. In scrub country the people who have
denuded South Queensland of its valuable timber, without
replanting anything, are not farmers, but bogus selectors
(mill-owners and their lieutenants), who took up country,
paid one rent, cut all the timber (getting thousands of
pounds for a few shillings), then forfeited the block in
order to repeat the process next door.
As to the political opinions of the man on the dirt,
every man is entitled to his own ; but when “ The Snake”
blatantly proclaims re the farmer’s “ howls for Free-
trade,” and “chokes with indignation against State
Socialism,” the reptile merely promulgates his igno-
rance. Wannon (Vic.) is Protectionist and Labor;
Wimntera, Protectionist since Federation ; Gippsland,
democratic Protectionist; Hume (N.S.W.), represented
by Lyne, needs no advt.; Ewing’s old electorate. Protec-
tionist; Darling Downs (Q.), Protectionist; Wide Bay,
Prime Minister Fisher. On the other hand, has “The
Snake” caught anyone red-handed farming in Hughes’s
electorate; or did G. Reid represent yeomen, or Bruce
Smith waving cornfields? According to this evidence,
what sort of a man is the farmer ? A national democratic
Australian!
As to the much-cursed individual’s attitude to the laws
of Nature, he probably knows more about them than
most of his critics. His cry for or against rain (and
on rain his whole livelihood depends) is no more bitter
than the curse of the football spectator deprived of two
hours of biff, bellow and abuse on a wet Saturday.
Has “The Snake” ever seen crop after crop wilt off
because the controller of the liquid asset suspends pay-
ment, or found a newly-sown field washed seawards in a
deluge?. The usual farmer’s critic, anyway, would not
know a disc-harrow from a currycomb, or a bushel of
barley from a Bullfinch boom. So I repeat “ The Snake’s ”
query: “What sort of a man is the farmer?” and I
answer that he is the sort Australia can’t have too many
of. Having said which, I sit back on the plough handles
and await the arrival of the Brisbane River dredge,
ordered in anticipation of the mullock that various
writers will heave at me.
* * * *
“ J. 8.” : Grit 1 Well, there’s the case of
Jim Rowe, a young horse-driver at Langton
Downs, near Clermont (Q,). He got badly
mixed up with his five-horse team and dray on a
recent Thursday. A stallion caused the trouble
by getting rid of his winkers and starting a panic.
Rowe jumped off and was putting on the brake,
when the leaders, falling back, threw him under
the wheel, which smashed his right arm and
mangled his face. The horses then cleared. Rowe
picked himself up and chased them, his right arm
whirling about and the splintered bone jabbing
itself through the skin, while his face bled fear-
fully. He caught and pulled up the team, then
got out his knife, opened it with his teeth, cut the
hame straps, and got all the horses clear and tied
them to a fence. Then he started back to report
the accident, and incidentally get his arm and his
beauty seen to.
“ Lupus” : I want some advice on exploit-
ing a new industry. I will state the case. Some
three months ago, one Garibaldi ground his organ
in front of my suburban mansion. I was in a
romantic mood. I conjured up thoughts of some
bright-eyed maid mourning her exiled Baldi. I
gave him sixpence. He called again. I had indi-
gestion. He was greasy, frowsy, unclean. He
squinted. Romance! Bah! I sent him a shilling,
and threatened instant death if he reappeared.
Seven times he came and went. On the eighth
occasion he played, “We Shall Meet in the Sweet
By-and-Bye.” I swore this thing should
never be. At the front door I called him
with honeyed words. Putting two bags on
the kitchen floor I placed a chair. He sat
down. “You would like something to eat?”
As he was saying “God-bless-yous ” innumerable
I raised a brass fender and brohght it down on his
skull. It crushed like an eggshell. The fender
was slightly bent. It cost Is. 6d. to repair.
Sqmewhere I have read of> burials alive. Such
horrors shock one. I drew the bread knife and cut
his throat until the knife-edge grated on his cer-
vical vertebra. This was unfortunate. The edge
of the knife was ruined. It cost 4|d. to sharpen.
In the back yard I dug a grave and carefully re-
moved the body and the bags. No mess on the
floor, mind you. At the head of the grave I
placed the organ, in order that the owner might
have it handy in case the supply of golden harps
should run out. Gently I lowered the corpse, a
bag beneath it and one on top. I filled in the
sepulchre and trimmed it neatly. At the head I
planted a macarotji tree; at the foot a steakan-
doyst seedling. Both are at present in full bloom.
The effect is charming. But what I want to ask
is : Do you think the City Council would give me
a commission to remove all barrel-organists at a
moderate figure per head? Allowing 10s. for
labor and with the addition of extras as stated
above—ls in all —for wear and tear, the
total cost of eradication would not be excessive.
“ Paolo Macari ” pitcha da yarn :
Marco grunted as he delved into the oysters.
“.Santa Maria, tee’s verra hot to-night, Beel,” he said,
“ and by jiminy de big Jewfeesh in the corner he smella
lika de dead elephant.”
Bill was about to reply when the boss bustled in.
“ Maka de quick, you Beel and you Marco ; seex cus-
tomers singa out they no wait. Quicka de lively now or
we getta de bad name.”
Bill and Marco jabbed their knives into the oysters,
and fragments of shell filled the air. The boss grabbed
six full plates and rushed out into the saloon.
“ Beel,” said Marco, straightening himself up, “open-
ing de oyst’ is de cronka way to earna de crust, and with
only two fingare on one of de hand. You know a, Beel,
howl losa de other? It was at Angeletti’s beeg shop.
Angeletti he buy de fat turteel to maka de soup.
He put de dam turteel—he weigh nearly halfa de ton —
upstairs on de floor of de shed. I worka underneath
with Bambini, and we cleana de feesh. We hear de dam
turteel floppa round when quicka de light’ the floor giva
de way and de turteel fall on Bambini and knooka him
alia de heap. I ru.sha to pull Bambini from under de tur-
teel, and, Santa Maria, de dam ting catcha me by de
hand lika de tiger and taka two fingare off. I yella, and
Cospetto and Angeletti run out into de yard and grabba
de axe and knocka de turteel’s brains out. Bambini
hava de arm and three of de rib broke, and all of de front
tooth knock out. Angeletti say, ‘ Marco and Bambini,
you de lucky coves, you no losa de life.’ Bambini w as in
de hosp’ for three months. I worka no more in de beeg
shop where dey maka de turteel soup. I getta de small
wage here, Beel, but I losa no more fingare down the neck
of de dam turteel.”
“ Wealsman ” : Mention of ’possum-shoot-
ing by bike lamp on moonless nights (B. 22/12/TO)
reminds that the übiquitous calcium carbide
headlight of the “jigger” is habitually used in
another branch of the Nimrod business, to wit,
flounder-spearing on sandy beaches. The outfit is
simple : a spear made by fastening a straightened
shark-hook to the end of a walking-stick, a bag
for the fish, a bike lamp, and a pair of legs that
can stand cold water for hours and hours at a
stretch without catching cramp. On calm, dark
winter nights the foreshores of some of Tasmania’s
sandy estuaries look like a midnight funeral adrift
on the Hoang Ho, or an army of Charon’s under-
lings dredging for lost souls in the Styx. The
light seems to obfuscate the fish, for they lie on
the bottom, looking wonderingly up at the bare-
legged lamp-post, and seldom shift until the spear
has picked them up and transferred them to the
lamp-post’s bag or basket. It doesn’t take much
skill to spear flounders, when the hunter over-
comes the initial refraction difficulties; to impale
garfish is a different proposition, which can only
be successfully accomplished with a trident spear
and a lightning-like jab. Most old hands at the
game use a double-ended weapon, the single point
for flounders, the three-pronged end for garfish,
mullet, eels and similar slippery beasts. On a
recent evening writer’s nerves were splashed all
to pieces by a fellow spearer being suddenly taken
in tow by a monster eel that he had harpooned
with his flounder-spear just as its tail was disap-
pearing beyond the ambit of his searchlight. I
feared an octopus or a shark had him by the way
he yelled and tore through the shallows towards
the deep water. Luckily the spear broke, and the
eel went out to sea without my friend. The latter
was pretty white when we salvaged him, but
swore he wasn’t a bit frightened, as he knew quite
well it was an eel and not a sea-serpent he had
fastened to. Flounders are much easier game
than congers; they seldom give trouble to
their captors —unless the latter are new chum
fishers and spear under-sized fish. Then the
wiiter-bailiff is likely to take a hand. Last
year, at Hobart, the midnight waders were met
on the lonely shore by a prowling water-bailiff
who ought to have been at home and in bed, and
politely requested to turn out their catches for
inspection. Several persons, among them a couple
of members of Parliament, appeared at the police
court as a result of that inspection, and were fined
£1 2s. 6d. Also, they were spoken to rather
severely by the Bench for not knowing that a fish
under water always looks a good deal bigger than
it really is. The magistrate was a member of an
anglers’ club, and probably knew these things
from experience—the experience of his fellow-
clubbers, of course.
* * * *
“ Cict.”: I note (B. 29/12/10) that ‘‘ Ohloe,”
in describing the hatching methods of Ma Emu,
mentions that the infant bird stays but a short
time under his parents’ control. Well, seeing
that he is full-grown in about eight months,
“ Chloe” may be said to be correct; but whether
she means that young emu’s minority extends a
fortnight or only six months is not clear to me.
During my eight years in the Tumbarumba
(N.S.W.) district I had a brace of the birds under
observation for about five hatching seasons, and
have seen dad and mum escorting their pair of
youngsters for an airing daily
until the offspring were
scarcely distinguishable
from their progenitors,
so leggy and old-
fashioned had
they become.
AT THE BUN-FIGHT.
TEACHER: "Ah, my dear little cherub, could you
eat a tart! ”
CHERUB: "My blooming oath!"
“L.H.”: “ Cumbangaree ” (B. 5/l/’ll)
jeeringly accuses “ Leo Lear” of ignorance con-
cerning termites’ nests, and bolsters up his accu-
sation with heavy-tonnage words which he uses as
though he knew what they meant. Yet as a dis-
play of ignorance his par. just about monopolises
the macaroon. To begin with, kingfishers do not
eat white ants; they live on lizards, frogs
and similar game, and the larger insects.
Secondly, neither of the woodpeckers has ever been
recorded as breeding in a termites’ nest. Finally,
and this is the crux of the whole matter, bird and
insect invariably occupy the nest at the same time,
for the best of reasons. The nests are only kept
in their places on the trees by the termites’ strict
attention to the matter of repairs. A deserted
nest falls to pieces in quick time, and no bird in
its senses would think of burrowing into one.
The kingfisher burrows into a live nest, and the
ants promptly repair the consequent damage, as
they would any other, by sealing over all the
broken galleries, leaving the bird an elegant
private suite, quite cut off from the rest of the
house.' Any one who has adventured into a
termites’ nest after young jackasses in his youth
will bear me out as to the. ants being there. My
skin crawls still at the recollection of them.
“DRUNK AS A COW.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Not At All”: Have interested myself for some time
past in carefully examining the pen-names which have
appeared in The Bulletin, and . . . unhesitatingly hand a
hogshead of the best (Ist prize) to “Drunk As A Cow”
(B. 25/8/’10). There is nothing more uproarious, I know,
because I’ve been it.— Recent Bulletin.
Saw you a hero
Who danced a bolero,
Sang a wild ditty and made a big row,
Shook ev’ry rafter with riotous laughter,
Cared not a curse for the pains of Hereafter ?
What was his trouble, then ? Drunk as a Cow 1
How did he hammer
With glorious clamor!
How did he plunge in the gutter and plough 1
Waving his bottle,
And oiling his throttle,
Taking each tub in the town for a pottle,
Hugging and mugging them —Drunk as a Cow I
Madly hob-nobbing,
Embracing and sobbing,
Down on the boards of the pub did he bow ;
Tearing and fighting,
Swearing and ski ting,
Till the p’lice came on him barking and biting,
Carried him limbo-wards—Drunk as a Cow !
What was the Lotion
He took as a potion ?
What was the Demon that made him kow-tow ?
Who has command of it?
What was the brand of it ?
Who was the make?, and what was the lknd of it ?
Drink that could drive him as Drunk as a Cow ?
Is it available?
Where is it saleable ?
Who was the Boozer, and where is he now?
What a sensation
Must thrill his foundation
When he recalls on a festive occasion
How he got gorgeously Drunk as a Cow !
QUEENSLAND.
A. BLOQUR.


ĥ
Carters
Mttle
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
Is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired—Out of
Sorts—Have No Appetite.
CANTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will put you right in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
FOR six’ months we will offer
diamonds in Rings, Pendants
and Jewellery generally at
prices never before attempted in
Australia.
WHY ?
f'S'vO.
Five Selected
Diamonds, mounted
in 18ct. Gold,
£6/6/-
Choice Diamond Fancy
Ring-, mounted in
18ct. Gold, £5/5/-
Selected Diamond
Cluster Ring-,
18ct. Gold and
Platinum,
£l2/12/-
'"Well,tare have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have to live up to it;
and so to increase our already large output we are offering all Diamond Goods at merely a commission
on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of customers.
Plv-l.i Figures.
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Condamine,” from the Moonie Scrub :
Sundown. I stack the tools and strike through the
scrub for camp, stepping warily to avoid a wandering
adder. Tired and hungry, I swing the billy and put on
the pot of dried fruit and rice, the universal food in bush
Queensland. The short twilight is soon over, and the
long night-sounds begin their chorus. There is still an
hour or two to while away before it is any use attempt-
ing to sleep, so out comes the accordion. I just get
through the first bar of “Never Hit Your Mother When
She’s Down,” when a big “ Scotch Grey ” mosquito alights
on my hand and blots out everything but a desire to
murder. I attempt to resume the interrupted melody,
but the first arrival was only the advance guard of
swarms of winged devils of numerous varieties, each
worse than the other. I give it up in disgust, light the
lantern, and with legs encased in a wheat sack settle
down for a quiet read. No go. In five minutes the
atmosphere is thick with little white buttterflies
and winged ants, and on top of this comes a swarm of
green, hard shelled beetles, each exuding an odor com-
pared to which a week-dead gohannA is attar of lavender.
I crawl off to bunk, where, under the net, I can at least
defy the insect pests, and in the wakeful hours that fol-
low wonder whether the Providence which made such a
fertile land and then filled it up with unlimited pests
could he subpoenaed before the Court of Common Sense
and made to show cause why its manufacturer’s license
should not be cancelled.
* * * *
“ Elson “Pannikin” should be ashamed
of himself. For weeks past he has been blather-
ing about Outback hospitality, and one would
naturally expect that he would be prepared to do
something in return. But what do we find? In
placeof allowingfair rations to theoverwOrked mos-
quito, which has a hard enough row to hoe trying
to drive a quarter-inch proboscis through a four-
inch fleece or a half-inch hide, he descends to all
manner of mean subterfuges to esefipe paying his
j list toll. And, not content with such tricks as
his own imagination can devise, he asks us to help
him with others. I suspect that “Pannikin” is
an absentee landlord. Let him purchaSjjfbr borrow
a Yankee magazine on “ method.”
That will teach him any meanness which he at
present doesn’t know. *
“ A. Rusin ” : Be “Gyp’s ” thirst for in-
formation about the protection of bees from ants,
etc. (B. 5/1/T1). I can give her two Certs. Clear
a piece of ground (say) 10ft. x 10ft. (or more if she
1 ilves, but that will
do for one or two
hives), and then
cover it about Gin.
thick with sawdust,
and put the hive
down in the middle
of the space. An
occasional touch-
around with the
broom will do the
rest. The patent is
not mine; I first
saw a school-teacher
named Chapman,
on Mitchell’s
Island, do it, with
boslter results. This
ingenious chap also
used to work his
bees double tides,
so to speak. Instead
of dotting the hives
all over the selec-
tion, he used to
watch, and when the
bees had nearly filled
the box with honey,
he used to take off
the loose roof (sup-
plied by my map
Sam) and pop a hive
on top, and the
bees just went up-
stairs and kept on
working. When he
took the lid off, the
bees used to rush
out to see what was
up; but they never
seemed to bite him,
though two or three
of them once kicked
me so hard in the
face that I had a
pair of black eyes
for over a week.
Still, 1 lost an old
acquaintance,
named gout—lost it
for good. The other
way of protecting bees? Well, I can hardly give
details, though I know it’s a success by the quality
of the honey and the absence of any anty taste.
“L.H.”: The
confusion of popu-
lar names for even
well-known and
widely distributed
birds outback is
something appal*
ling. Take the
brown chap with
the grey crown and
white-tipped fan-
like tail, known to
ornithologists as the
babbler or chatterer.
In the bush, how-
ever, these birds are
variously known as
“the happy family,”
“twelve apostles”
or plain “ apostles ’
(sharing the appel-
lation with the grey
jumper, one of the
few birds that
mud nests), “dog
birds” or “cat
birds” (in tribute
to their vocal spe-
cialties). Here and
there you hear him
called “jumping
Dick,” jumping
Bill,” “hopping
Harry,” or “cranky
Bill,” as his acro-
batic antics strike
the local fancy. The
name “mutton-
bird,” which ought
to be the copyright
of the short-tailed
petrel of Bass Strait
and thereabouts
(the mutton-bird of
commerce) is also
given to the grey
crow-shrike, which
in turn is often
called the grey
magpie. The name
“ black magpie’’ is
given to both the
vv h i t e - w i n g ed
chough and the pied
crow-shrike, while
the latter is called
by various onomatopoeic renderings of its cry,:
such as charawhaek or corfiwcmg. The- con-
fusion rising from the fact "that thefe are
two bellbirds, one on the coast and one in
the interior, has already led to bloodshed in
The Bulletin, so I’ll get out here lest J drop an
injudicious truth into the smouldering ignorance
and set the place on fire again. . bUb .
* * *
“ Starfish ” : Permit me to oblige a lady
with a cure for antsi Let “Gip” take a wash-
hand basin, polish it thoroughly inside, bury it in
the ant nest ’till the brim is level with the ground,
THE TOURIST’S THIRST FOR
INFORMATION.
THE NEWCHUM: “Say, Mister, can you — ah — tell
me where I can see some — ah—frozen mutton
growing ?”
then put in a pound or so of ground wood-ashes,
warm. The ants will make a bee-line for the
ashes, and in a few minutes the whole regiment
will be clambering for dear life trying to get up
the sjippery sides of the bedroom ironmongery ;
hut the small particles of ash adhering to their
feet will send them slithering back on their com-
rades. Then “Gip” may destroy them either
with boiling water or by sooling on the dachshund.
SAFER STILL.
COUNTRY PPUBLICAN (to would-be Sunday im-
biber): “ Arc you a bona-fide traveller? ”
S.I.: “No; but I’m the policeman’s brother .”
“Giddap ” : It grieves me to think that a
“big, vigorous Australian” —I use his own de-
scription—like “Jimmie Pannikin ” is having his
slumber disturbed by the mosquito, so I accept
his invitation (B. 29/12/’10) to have a go at the
problem of how to baffle the insect. My method
is to fasten a piece of cloth saturated with phenyl
over the head of the bunk and a similar piece over
the foot. I have tried many of the evil-smelling
liquids sold for mosquito-dispersing purposes,
with the instructions, “Bathe the face and
hands with the mixture before retiring, shake
the bottle,” and prefer the skeeter to all of
them. I know of only one perfume that will fell
the mosquito in his tracks. It is known as Odor of
Afghan, and is fatal to nearly all animal and insect
life; the only insect I know that is impervious
to it is the camel. With regard to bugs—well, the
“ Pannikin ” is up against a tougher proposition
there. I have met bugs in their native heath, so.
to speak, that is in the fo’c’s’le of a “salt-water
puncher,” and a Yankee shipmate once told me
the only way to get topside bf them was to give
the body three coats of P.B. paint.
* * * *
“J.G.”: It is time somebody violently
banged in a protest against the wholesale manner
in which the native trees are being destroyed
along the roadways of Victoria. In nearly every
part of the State thousands of useful and beautiful
shade trees are being cut down or ringbarked
by the landowners, who think they prevent a
little grass or crop from growing inside the fences,
or because, having destroyed every tree on
their own land, they have now no firewood
except what they can . steal off the roads. It is
just plain thieving of public property. Any
person in Melbourne who waltzed into Collins-
street with an axe and cut down a telegraph-pole
to make a hen-roost, or dug up the wood blocks
for back logs, vvoiild be skull-dragged to quod
lively ; but in the country the Law in this respect
shuts one eye and keeps the other closed. In fact,
some of the biggest vandals I know are J’s.P. and
shire councillors. I’d write to Premier Weary
about the necessity of gaoling a few of them, or
even all of them ; but he wouldn’t get the letter
till he wakes up. And there’ll be no trees left
then.
. t “Agram ” : Up here at Nana Glen, oia
South Grafton (N.S.W.), are the biggest trees I’ve
seen in Australia, and I’ve been all over it.
Birds; too, are in abundance, and their plumage
is wonderful. There are pigeons of every variety,
from the little brown bronzewing to the plump
wonga ; a!nd wallabies, kangaroo-rats, bandicoots
and other cattle so unaccustomed toman that they
scarcely get out of one’s way. The bush is virgin
almost'; has scarcely been touched by axe or
brush-hook ; and I nominate it as a national
park, where much of our fast-going flora and
fauna could be preserved for all time. I will back
the gohannas in the Glen as the biggest in the
State. Killed one the other day which measured
sft. Gin. I reckon that chap will take a bit of
beating.
MAMMON WORSHIP.
[FOR TH E BULLETIN.]
One Nebuchadnezzar, a king of renown,
Whom we read of in history old,
Got into great trouble and lost bis bright crown
Through his greed and his worship of gold.
The sentence upon him—it made him shed tears,
For no doubt Twas a rough' one to pass—
Was to creep on all-fours through the fields seven years
And subsist on a diet of grass.
Were the Powers to-day such a pain to inflict
On the lovers of Mammon ana Greed,
Our legitimate stock, it is safe to predict,
Would be properly flummoxed for feed ;
For the hungry and greedy gorilla-like band
Ev'ry vestige of herbage would mouth,
And the awful results to the Man on the Land
Would he worse than a seven years’ drouth.
N.S.W.
P. JEFF. WALLACE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications 'insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Stevo : Half-brother to 879,482 bush stories. If
that plot staggers into this office again this week we’ll
set fire to it Ney : Old idea roughly treated. Remem-
ber always to be kind to the old.. ..Jules M.: It needs to
be sung. You should have sent it as a gramophone
record R.5.G.8.: Here you are :
I sweep thro’ the night on the wings of sleep,
In the whirl of a dreamland car,
Hurtling into the bottomless deep,
Plunges the earth while up we leap
To the realms of moon or star.
Mounting the steps of the airy depths
To the heights where the angels fly,
By the comet’s fiery light we pace,
By the meteorites that whirl in space,
By the fiery stars we flash, we race
Till the star we seek is nigh.
It is rather confusing. Did you go up or down?
H.R.W.M. : Can’t use it MoGinty: Good theme; poor
verse Bejatoo : Verses received. Kill Time if you
must.; but don’t send the evidences of your crime to us.
.... K. H. (Java): Unsuitable.. ..D.S. (North Sydney):
“ Music ” mechanical stuff.,.. Joe B. : Wilfully and ma-
liciously dull M.C.O’H. : N0....Did0: Poet’s license
cancelled... .T. Jim : Neither good enough.. ..Septimus :
Sorry both fail by a narrow margin.. ..O.J.W. : You do
the lady an injustice in verses that suffer from an occa-
sional sore foot; she is no wowseress... .Bungee : One
verse only :
Yes, they still run races in Enngonia
Enngonia on the far out Warrego,
They run ’em still in places lonelier
From the Hill to the scrubby Dorrigo.
It is handy to know there is a rhyme for Warrego. See
if you can get us one for Orange M.O. (V.): Your
horse-poem is disqualified, and your jockey’s license can-
celled. .. J.I). : The dictionary puts it this way: “ Basket
—A vessel made of osiers or other twigs, rushes, splints,
or other flexible material interwoven.” And we put
“The Crime on the Sands” that way.... L.J.A. : It
appears to be a dignified rebuke to somebody :
LOOK BEFORE YOU LEAP.
Some people think because a man don’t dress in latest
style,
Or if his hands are browned by honest toil,
That his name might stain the parchment if’twere placed
upon the file
To in future swell the history of our soil.
And my bold and worth v critic says, in his own childish
way,
That dew in summer he has ne’er espied,
But if he leaves his bed in time to see the break of day,
He can view the dew drops sparkling far and wide.
If that doesn’t make him get up early nothing will.
....Splinter: The tortoise, after being beheaded, was
still alive next day and laid two eggs during the night 1
If you had told us that the two eggs, after being mur-
dered, had produced two tortoises during the night, we
might have believed you. As it is Reader: (1)
No ; (2) No ; (3) Yes ; Paling’s will give you an estimate
of the cost... .Artful Dodger: Well, you’ll have to do
better than that Rally: Too indefinite J.F.L.:
Don’t trust them... .Girdle :We made hash of the last
albino bird a fortnight ago.. ..H.F. : We could only ex-
press our opinion of it by dissecting a dictionary and
firing it at you out of a howitzer. Sorry to say we can’t
borrow a howitzer anywhere P.C. (W.A.): Not pay-
able stuff:... H.D.F.: Barber’s shop sketch bright,
but too slight Colon: “Keeps” promises well,
then disappoints with a poor ending... .Dido : Your
lines are too long. The reader’s eye gets footsore
and out of breath on the long, dry stretches be-
tween rhymes. And when some of the rhymes are false
ones, the reader breathes hard through his nose like a
tired wayfarer who has run 10 miles to get to a pub, and
then found it closed Starfish: Gag too old. “She
looked at me like frozen meat ” gives a faint flash of in-
terest to it. . E.M.L.: Both unsuitable M.C. (V.):
Two verses of “ Werribee River ” :
By Brooklyns mansion faire,
And down past Cobbledicks,
I water gardens rich and rare
And carry wood and sticks.
Down where the Norman fillies grow,
Bye Percy Churnsides,
And the wild waves know
And I am bursting of my sides.
“H.H.”: The importing press is so
anxious to import things that it would even
reprint from an Icelandic paper a column of
advice about how to put salt on a kangaroo’s tail.
As a case in point, Sydney E. News (10/1/Tl)
gave some space to the fact that there are ants
in certain gardens around New York, and that a
Gotham paper said, “ The only way to get rid of
this nuisance is to destroy the nests, and the best
method is to pour boiling water on the ground.”
The News reprinted this advice “for what it was
worth.” For what it ivas worth ! There are more
ants between Sydney and Strathfield than there
are in all the United States north of Mason and
Dixon’s iine. There is hardly an ant in the whole
district around Sydney that hasn’t had boiling
water poured on it by some enraged householder ;
also every thing else save beer has been poured on it,
and fires have been built on top of it. I have
driven my horse every day for three years over
an ant-heap near my front gate. I have attacked
it with an axe about 1000 times. I have deluged
the boiling substance over it about as frequently.
I have shed some gallons of kerosene on it, and
then put a lighted match on top. I have thrown
bricks at it. I have burnt rubbish on it till the
local policeman interfered. It has been treated
with all the poisons that the local chemist
could suggest. The dog has scratched it.
The Jersey cow has stood on it. It has been
dug up. It has been excommunicated with the
Greater Curse, and the Lesser Curse, and the
Middle Curse, and the Intermediate Curse, and
the Odd Casual Curse. It has been treated with
tar, soap, evil-smelling slops and anathema. The
only result is that the ants have started a branch
establishment opposite my-other gate. And,
after all this, a paper published in the cold, cold
State of New York, where people think things
are serious if there is one ant in Brooklyn and
one in Jersey City, and one in Hoboken, recom-
mends boiling water ; and the Evening News,
which ought to be boiled itself, gravely imports
the idea as if it were something new. May the
wild ass bray over its grave, if it isn’t waste of a
valuable ass.


The fever month of February, when
Infectious .cases are always, more numer-
ous than at other times, is at hand* and
Immunity from disease depends largely
upon the cleanliness of the average,
householder. - -
■fjWt/olders w.'fc Hov/, Jo^«,
when
you I j>W l cover you
wiift * fy "JT
you On 'Sjj.
* tnonl£\ / ! Cg
The: totalisator has been a great force
for good wherever it has appeared,
and it would have been introduced
here long ago but for the short-sighted
policy of a certain school of moralists,
who, because they cannot stop all gam-
bling, will not stop some of it, and
always prefer no bread to half a loaf.
tjorrary
'V°^3 e|/ '
'Vj,!
?
/ £*cePT
1 yViTH
800 K-
*. MAKtRSj
y oU no v,c >'■ <g™ a/"
whole teJVfull of food, V
•but" tieres "Wf * \\
I y ou wjoVT to §o \
) or» w''Hb - ” - \
/ cje»tle S h «^ er< *-“",. il**’
\ S ooncr f««V •
town-hall improvements.
Jk'^s
Vj
>\
i
bathinq in the open.
Councfflor Scudds said that the matter
was really so serious and of such
concern to decent, respectable people
with grown-up families, that he
would be pleased to use the horse-
whip on some occasions.
CJly AldermAn !-(to +a'\ or) \ - See W<2 ? -J s^aH
v Ant" A>l fny let out, became were
enlAroin^--IHe KHcben Atltje
*' , /A
S^uAtAb. So your Hiohness
Amoves of our |?fe.
jcobold of BAtenbura.'-'• |+s tremendously
•pine. Everybody o<roVt ~tb Come out - he Ah
%,. on a stAffon. There's Any Amount of-
room an AS'V'Ton . Awf'iy to be
A StA+Ton holder. If- -tty C ) Aboorino eIASS € S
; At Home Only reaped what S blendid op>e»inos
J -ti>ere Are {"or Jm Sure 'tfjcy would be
„■ AWf'ly Jolly ynllinoto Comc •
lA
„
,
iSr^4,
tralia of forge fa , .A
D A/ ?
<■ J* /A^lßoornel.
® Bat> | - SAys K "yg
BHIy as 1?e tries his
newly acquired WAddy on
Vjis lubrA; — That
bAS a, made m
SUMMER TIME IN MELBOURNE.


Sydney D.T. again doubts whether the North can
be peopled by white people.
“You disgracefully white boy!”
Oas (or any other) Monopolist: “Go away! Go away! i’m Private
Enterprise. You wouldn’t interfere with Private Enterprise,
would you! See how I encourage it.”
'@L:.3<S<s'V2>
coupons
“ At the present time the bank de-
posits in N.S.W. exceed the advances
by no less than £1 1,000,000. ”
L.8.M.: “Now then, Private En-
terprise, get to work.”
Owing to the pressure on Syd-
ney streets, it is proposed by
the Government that a motor-
car service shall be established.
The cars are to run in by-
ways where there are no trams.
The above is the only kind of
by-way without trams nowa-
days.
“ Clark, the Montana copper king, has purchased a dinner service that
cost £24,000.”
Liz : “ £24,000 dinner service I ”
Bella s “Jewhiz! What a lot o’ coupons they must ha’ saved up 1 ”
An enthusiast suggests
that the present streets of
Sydney should be roofed
in so that there can be
two tiers of traffic, so to
speak. This picture shows
an unavoidable accident at
Circular Quay.
CITY RECONSTRUCTION AND OTHER MATTERS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY.
AND
WATER
a
' /27
Trade
Mark
Bet*.
FOR INDOOR WORKERS.
Cooling! Refreshing!
Thirst Quenching! Sustaining!
PERSONAL
ITEMS
WADE ON HOLIDAY.
Artist Phillips Fox has been elected a
Societaire of the Paris Salon. He is the first
Australian to be thus honored, and Inis now the
privilege of selecting six of his own pictures and
hanging them at the Salon exhibitions.
° , Tk- -n p ta t • j r
Bishop ISevill, of Dunedin, Primate of
M.L., is now the senior bishop in all the Church
of England. The Archbishop of Armagh was the
patriarch until the other day, when he gave up
bishoping for a living Dr Nevill has been airing
Ins apron in Dunedin for 40 years.
Died at Albion, Brisbane, on January 15,
aged 73, Kendall JBroadbent, who was a member
Of the Stone expedition, which did some explor-
,„g in Papua about 40 years ago. He was> on
speaking terms with almost the whole creation or
birds, and for tlie last 30 years had been collector
and taxidermist at the Queensland Museum.
_
Mrs. Mary Gardiner, a very ancient in-
habitant of Sydney, died a few days ago, aged
83 years. She was born in O’Connell-street, in a
house which stood on the site of the Drug Co.’s
premises. Her maiden name was Bloodsworth,
and her grandfather was overseer of bricklayers,
and came in the First Fleet with Governor Phillip,
The Bloodswortlis, the Hills and the Went-
worths—all “first families”—are connected by
rnarriage. Francis Cox, of Circular Quay, Sycj-
ney Cove, had three daughters. One married
Richard Hill, of Bent-street; another W. C.
Wentworth ; the third, George Bloodsworth.
Mrs. Gardiner was the relict of J. A. Gardiner,
of Gobolion, near Wellington.
Professor Shelton, who was the first prin-
cipal of the Queensland Agricultural College at
Gatton, is nowadays growing apples on an orchard
of his own near Seattle (U.S. A.). Under-Secretary
for Agriculture Scriven recently got a letter and
some photos, of the place from him. He planted
all the trees himself, paid only 10 dollars for out-
side labor last year, and reckons that he will send
2000 boxes to market this year.
After living on the island of St. Aignan’s,
called by the natives Misima, Richard Bovd, a
miner, and his wife have gone holidaying to Syd-
ney. St. Aignan’s is! a small speck off the coast
of Papua, which keeps itself in tucker and a few
extras by gold-fossicking. The white population
at the last census (a census is taken every day)
was eight. Mrs. Boyd is the female population ;
and for the past three years she hadn’t had a
single chance to remark to any other white
woman that she didn’t know what servants were
coming to nowadays.
From “Gallery Hand,” concerning rows
in Parliament:—
I think the most exciting row in N. S. Wales was that
in which the chief parties were Henry Parkes, Henry
Copeland (afterwards Agent-General) and Henry Levien.
In thunderous voice Copeland was danmationing the
Parkes Government, when Parkes mildly interjected.
Copeland paused, turned to Levien who sat near, and
inquired : “What did he say, Harry?” Levien waggishly
answered : “He says you should take a bath.” Cope-
land lashed himself. “The Premier,” he shrieked,
“ with the vulgarity characteristic of him, says I should
take a bath. I tell him to his face, I am in the habit of
bathing daily in the bathroom of this building,
as members well know. But I have never seen
the Premier enter that bathroom. I am a cleaner
man than he in body and mind, and I hurl back the gross
and unwarrantable insult. How dare the Premier in-
sinuate I want a bath ! If I am in a lather of perspiration,
it is due to the heat, to the want of ventilation of this
Chamber, to the warmth of my remarks in exposing the
rotten Government of which the hon. member is the cul-
pable head. A bath do I want? There’s not enough
water in the Prospect dam to wash off the political
dirt that clings to the Premier.” Parkes, who was
not in the joke, was thunderstruck. He drawled out
“ What is the nature of the hon. member's complaint?”
“ You said I should have a bath,” shouted Copeland. “ I
do not recollect it. What I might have said, in all sym-
pathy, but did not say, is that the hon. member would
be desirably served with sandsoap and a scrubbing brush.”
Then the boiling fat was in the fire, and it took about
half the members in the Chamber to prevent bloodshed.
Certainly there was the other case in which Copeland
chased a member out; but the other member in that case
was such small potatoes ! He had called pointed atten-
tion to the fact that Copeland had been to the refresh-
ment room. The chase that followed led out of the
Chamber, through the corridors and vestibule, right into
Macquarie-street.
Colonel Ramaciotti, of the J. C. William-
son firm, is a sad man these days—so sad that,
the Government having determined that it can’t
spend any of the people’s money in sending troops
to the Coronation, he has resolved to lay some of
his own money on that altar. He is willing to
pay all the expenses of taking a small Aus-
tralian detachment to England and bringing
it out again, provided that rations and quarters
are supplied on the other side of the earth. There
are one or two minor conditions ; for instance, in
order to get the biggest possible advt. for Aus-
tralia out of the business, Ramaciotti, who is an
ardent amateur soldier, thinks that the detach-
ment —of a dozen or so—should consist of picked
riflemen who could win a few pots after the
crowning is over. Though he is quite prepared
to carry through the business on his own account,
it seems that he won’t feel hurt if some other rich
Australians open their purses and help to make
the detachment bigger.
Professor Masson, head of the recent
Science Congress, was one of the authorities con-
sulted in regard to the new Technical University
to be opened at Bangalore, India. “Chinny”
Clarke, formerly Governor of Victoria, now the
newly-married Governor of Bombay, tried hard to
get it for his headquarters city ; but Masson and
others thought that Bombay was not a good
place for the delicate scientific instruments.
A Parsee started this Technical University
movement. He gave so many thousands
that the Government was practically forced
to add other thousands; and as soon as
Bangalore was talked of for the site the
Maharajah of Mysore came down with
more thousands, so the whole has reached
£70,000. The University will be chiefly
for electrical science, engineering and
tropical medicine. It is curious that an-
other Parsee merchant, Mody, started off
the Hong Kong University with £30,000 ;
after which his business rivals, Swire and
Co., had perforce to give £40.000. The Chinese
Viceroy of Canton added £16,200. So it booms.
Melbourne has made the depressing dis-
covery that there is another Judkins in the
world. This other one isC. 0., of Christ Church,
Glens Falls (U.S. A.), and it is shameful to have
to say that recently he spoke on behalf of pool,
billiards, moving pictures, cards and dancing.
He urged that the churches take them up and in-
troduce them into their young people’s societies.
It is most painful:
Oh ! Willie Jud of Melbourne town,
Suspend your mad performing !
Just wear your most forbidding frown,
And put your strongest brolly down,
A Judkins needs reforming.
“Tom” Hughes, M.L.C., many times
Gaud Mayor of the inner block of Sydney, de-
parts Europewards on the 28th, and takes with
him a record of much, good work well done. If
one man more than another was responsible for the
resuscitation of the reputed corpse of effective local
Government in Sydney, that man is Thomas
Hughes. On his entry into the council 14 years
ago he started to clean out the stable, and his
efforts (in which, of course, others have joined)
have led to increased efficiency in the health service,
straight finance, public ownership on a large scale,
healthy public spirit in civicaffairs, and a diminu-
tion of “graft.” Above all, be was largely in-
strumental in passing the legislation which gave
Sydney a decent franchise and fairly broad
powers. The Sydney death-rate has shrunk from
16.59 per thousand in 1900 to 11.28 in 1910, and
the reduction is still going on ; and that signifies
a reform which sounds its own praises.
Joseph Martinuzzi, who was director and
organiser of the party of Italians whom Marquis
de Ray unsuccessfully attempted to settle in
Papua many years ago, died the other day. Most
of them, Martinuzzi among the number, subse-
quently shifted to N. S. Wales, and made a set-
tlement, called New Italy, in the Richmond
River district, where they went in largely for
grape-growing.
A SIDE-ISSUE.
The Imperial Government has invited the Prime
Minister and the State Premiers to the Coronation.—
News Item.
South Australian Railway Commissioner
Moncrieff, whose picture ought to be somewhere
in this issue, deserves the immortality if only
because he is the first Australian railway boss to
give the Australian Brennan’s mono-rail railway a
practical test. Five miles of single track is to be
tried first in the new Pinaroo wheat country,
where the main line is difficult of access owing to
the want of roads, and roads would be costly to
make owing to the scarcity of stone. Moncrieff
reckons that these, are just the circumstances to
suit the mono-rail ; so he is having a passenger-
cum-cargo car built on the new principle at the
Government workshops for service on the experi-
mental five-mile spur.
Dr. Albert George Hanson, formerly of
Concord, who lately died at Mosman, aged 65,
was a Sydney native, born in Lower George-street,
in one of two stone houses still standing. He was
son of “ Joe” Hanson, who in early days kept the
historic inn on Circular Quay known as The Rum
Puncheon—afterwards The Oriental. The build-
ing was erected by Isaac Nichols, the first gazetted
postmaster in Australia. It disappeared about 20
years ago to make way for the trams. Hanson,
the dainty water-colorist, is a younger member of
the old Rum Puncheon family.
Webb, the miller, is dead. He came into
politics just when Victoria was beginning to think
that Dunky Gillies —the gentleman who borrowed
millions and gave ha’penny tips—wasn’t the
genius he was alleged to be. So, as solicitor
Conant, with the alphabet in front of his name,
had nearly beaten him in Rodney, Dunky rec-
koned it good enough to seek sanctuary among
h s friends, the Cohens, of the Eastern Suburbs.
That gave Webb an opening, and he stepped in
and filled the place for 15 years. When Patterson
arrived to do the rough slaughtering work after
the boom smash, he roped in country members
mostly, and Webb was included as Minister for
Works and Agriculture, chiefly because he was
reputed to know that two and two wouldn’t make
five no matter how it was squeezed.
Although the Australian Workers’ Union
is fiercely White Australian, it has a curiosity in
the shape of a prominent colored official. The
annual elections of the Victoria-Riverina branch
of the A.W.U. have just been held. There were
11 candidates for the position of organiser, five
being wanted, and Richardson headed the poll
with 4594 votes. He was also elected one of the
three delegates to the A.W.U. conference, third
on the poll to Secretary Barnes and Grayndler.
Finally, he was elected as a delegate (one of three)
to the P.L.C. conference. There is no doubt that
he is a superb organiser—probably the best in
Australia. Until they meet him, unionists often
express surprise at a “ black man ” being in such
prominence in the union; but it is alleged that
every man Richardson meets votes for him.
Although of African descent, he is Australian
born, and speaks English, of course, perfectly.
He is an anomaly, but a valuable man for the
union, aahe is well-informed, a good speaker, and
quite tireless.
“ Trotter ” introduces two friends
Two Northern Territorians, each with 30 years’ experi-
ence, are in Melbourne as I write. One is Cooper ; the
other Sayers. Cooper was manager of Melville Isle for
Robinson. Talk with such men is. galvanic. Melville
Island aud Bathurst Island, says Obopfer, are sepa-
rated by a long, narrow strait, fordable at one end.
At the other end there is a harbor fit to receive a war
fleet. The natives roaming over both, islands number
about 500. They have successfully evaded Malay and
every other admixture, and apparently don’t belong to
the same type as the Australian. He reckons there are
now about 17,000 buffaloes on Melville, and 200,000 on the
mainland—all descendants from 16 left on Melville and 16
on the mainland 80 years ago. It is alleged that some
have swum across the intervening 30 miles. The natives
had never touched a buffalo till Cooper came, and feared
to 'eat the beef at first. Then they discovered it in a way
that reminds you of Charles Lamb’s yarn about the dis-
covery of roast port and crackling. D. M. Sayers, the
other visitor, has been twice overland from Oodnadatta
to Port Darwin, on the proposed direct line of rail-
road, and has six times taken cattle on the long
track from South Aus. proper to the Queensland
border. Of course, like all disinterested people who
know what they’re talking about, be backs the straight
railway from Oodnadatta to Pine Creek. A Queensland
deviation would, he says, meet with tremendous difficul-
ties ; for one thing, it would have to cross the Diaman-
tina River, with a treacherous bed from 20 to 30 miles
wide, and this alone would provide one of the engineering
problems of the world. As for the country on the direct
route, sheep bred at Barrow Creek, near Alice Springs,
in the heart of the continent, have wool finer and more
valuable than any in Australia, says Sayers ; and you’ll
allow that Sayers knows wool when he sees it.
John Reay Watson, of the Melbourne Age
sub-editing staff, the other day packed up for the
voyage to London with an expressive cheque in
his wallet, handed over by the men he had worked
with. Years ago, before he left Sydney for Mel-
bourne, Watson broke out with a couple of novels,
which were encouraging in their way, although he
thinks he has something much better in his bag
for London publishers. His early books and some
short stories and sketches were, however, promis-
ing enough to lead The Bulletin to liken him to
Meredith. Besides the aforementioned cheque he
takes a hatful of ideas, a shrewd insight into
man and woman, a crisp and vigorous style, and,
tvs J. S. Stephens, the chief sub of the Age puts it,
a tigerish activity.
Falconbridge, on the N.S.W. Blue Moun-
tains, at one time the home of Henry Parkes, was
offered at auction recently, and passed in at £3OOO.
It was subsequently taken at £5 advance
on that. Falconbridge was a 640-acre
selection, taken up under the resi-
dential clauses of the Robertson Land
Act. It was not thought that the
Land Act of the day included moun-
tain sites; but the land officials
found that it did, and many poli-
ticians and others who got first in-
formation made hay while they
could. Parkes lived for a while on
the selection, but lost it, as he did
all the other property he ever owned.
S. M. Herald loses another good man in
D. J. Gilbert, who leaves to edit a new weekly for
farmers, The Land. The Land is the official
organ of the Farmers and Settlers’ Association of
N.S.W., and is reported to have strong financial
backing, and to be one of the rising hopes of Anti-
Sosh.
The appointment' of L. McClelland as
third Commissioner of Victorian Railways adds
nothing to the expert knowledge of the manage-
ment. It was generally known that he had been
offered the billet, and generally expected that he
would decline it. He was comfortably fixed in
the position of Secretary, for Railways, free from
all responsibility for disasters in the traffic, and
practically his own boss. As a Commissioner his
previous experience will be of very little value,
his salary will not be much increased, and in the
event of some more appalling catastrophes he
will probably be swept away, with his two col-
leagues, by a wave of public indignation. How-
ever, from the public point of view his acceptance
of, the Commissionership is a hopeful sign. It
looks as though he expected the traffic to be safer
now that Tait is gone.
A. B. MONCRIEFF, Commissioner of Railways
and Chairman of Tramway Trust (S.A.).
Another aristocrat struck Adelaide the
other day. He publishes a card as large as a
solicitor’s bill of costs, with a picture of himself
as a youth up to the ears in snow —or furs —and
withhis hair parted nicely in the middle. Below
this photo of himself in the snow or the furs is
printed—
Marquis Giovanni Francisco de Bonanate,
Siberia—3B° below Zero.
On the larger space of the card is printed in large
circus type—
Marquis Giovanni Francisco de Bonanate,
of Belmonte Castle.
Touring the world for a bet of £lO,OOO.
58,183 miles already travelled from London to Adelaide.
People who are ordinarily scornful of the mere
bloke who travels round the world for a bet
swallowed the Marquis from “ Belmonte Castle”
(which is almost as vague as “John Brown,
Smith-street”) for the sake of his title. Then he
started selling them cigars.
GENTLEMEN BOTH.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
xrOUNG Gent, vain and reserved, seeks high-class
J gent.’s company evgs. Norr.h Syd. P.O.— Advt.
A lonely gent, reserved and vain,
In a self-made prison pent,
To ope his heart and feed his brain,
Has need of a high-class gent;
The common folk who have no pride '
Mix gaily about the Quay ;
The lonety gent he mopes inside,
With his socks for company.
Gentlemen both with parted hair,
Sitting each in a deep armchair,
Both of them with that cultured air,
And a cultured cough. (Ahem !)
Breeding and socks in equal parts,
Cigarette-smoke-dried maidens' hearts,
Conversation in fits and starts,
Gentlemen both of them !
The high-class gent who wants to sit
With a gent reserved and vain
Must own at least five suits that fit,
And be of a blue blood strain ;
His socks and ties must never clash,
And his speech must be precise ;
He must not mutter “ Blank !” for “ Dash !”
In a word, he must be “ naice.”
Gentlemen both ivith social claims,
Gentlemen both with lofty aims,
Never get up to larks or games,
And never say “ Blawst,! ”or “ Bern ! ”
Gertie and Ted may romp afloat,
They'll not go on a■ vulgar boat,
They are exclusive, kindly note !
Gentlemen both of them !
Where can he find a gent
Who is quite high-class enough ?
A well-tamed gent who lives on rent,
And knows all the latest guff ?
The kindred soul devoid of mirth
Who’s dulness has ne’er a flaw ;
The ass who maddens all the earth
By braying inanely “ Haw ! ”
Gentlemen both who’d rather be
Drowned and dead in the deepest sea
Rather than that Society
Their weaknesses should condemn.
Shut the door on the vulgar mob !
Not a word of the hated job
That yields the weekly thirty bob !
Gentlemen both of them !
N.S.W.
REGINALD GUFF.


m
ii
gi
M
mm
M
m
n
a •»,
§!
!" V4V ’■:•.••,:
M
*%jfe
fiif
m
M
W
$• ! *■
x f**s. ! :■
hSI
gfe
ft !%
I:M>
A&
\
-u'iA
K
1
it
•f
sp'<£-
m
1
n?r.<f
$M 5
as*
n
::
( 3
||
11.
iri
f •;
f I
.'*•?
if
;l
111
W~svtv
H
!jfi^
Pi!
f'-HPJVS
WM r :
1
lit
ii
i\
[\
.
i?
:ii
$i
I if
i
n
3
vy.s ft.
m h
aU6»
»>.
§®P'/WslWf f ?/;• ftl
«&/ ■ < . i -.
ijsh kpfcffi •:?: 4 " {’■ ;•' \ •'.' ;;•
/liil;V A - ?
'I WKi:| i'AI il
/zM' ' :■■ -14-1 *■ • •••'•!■' A"
m
m
m
Kk
■■. mm
m§
Sft 5
8ft v »
M?
7 ,^‘-
»38s
i
»
fit
Vji&Safi
to*
n u
I ' 'V
ms
ii
>">•
w
THE ABSTRAL SUITS.
“Suppose a Monarch chanced to roam,
And left his Sunday suit at home;
What would he doP What would he sayP
How would he manage? Tell me, pray.”
“Well, let me tell you he would go
And buy a suit from—well, you know;
He’d go to Gowing’s, like the rest
Of those who know when they’re well dressed.”
Our Austral Suit is the outcome
of years of thought and experi-
ence. Since 1868 we have made
a special study of every detail in
men’s tailoring, with the result
that our Austral Suits are now
acknowledged as unequalled for
cut, finish, quality and wear ;
indeed, we keep nine cutters
constantly going. We have also
made a feature of Australian
Tweeds, and specialise in Vicars’
Marrickville, which carry their
own recommendation, being “all
wool, pure wool, and nothing but
wool.” You cannot do better than
commence 1911 with an Austral
Suit. We quote 635., 705., 755.,
845., 905., 955. and 105 s. If you
cannot call, drop a postcard, and
we will send you a full range of
patterns and self-measurement
form. We pay carriage on all
orders throughout Australia, and
are open on Friday Evenings to
10. Any time when passing call in
and let us register your measure.
Cowing Bros
486, 488, 490 GEORGE STREET; and
7,9, 11, 15, 15 and 17 ROYAL ARCAM, SYDNEY.


&r
YOU should use CHERRY
BLOSSOM BOOT POLISH,
because it shines better, is
easy to apply and quick in results.
Because it preserves the leather
and will double the life of your
footwear.
Because it is most economical
in use, and you get more for your
money.
If your storekeeper does not
stock it, send us his name and we
will see that you are supplied.
Minasrincr Agents fnr Australia :
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THROAT HABITS.
A cough, a hack in clearing the throat may
become habits. They, begin with a cold and keep
coming automatically after the cold has finished.
A slight exercise of the will and the use of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will soon rid you
of this constant annoyance. Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy has a prompt specific action on
the throat or air passages.*
Aching Back.
The bane alike of the housewife and of the
working man. In some cases every movement of
the body is accompanied by a sharp stabbing pain
in the small of the back, and in others the pain
is dull and continuous. These are symptoms of
kidney disease. Arrest its progress by using Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which will act in a surpris-
ingly prompt manner. Prices Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
STRICKEN BY
SCIATICA.
«
Australian Athlete who had to
Give up Sport.
¥
Suffered off and on for ten years—
Cured by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
♦
A few years ago there were few better known
athletes in Tasmania than Mr. Arthur. J. Grice,
of Driffield Street, Queenstown, whose perform-
ances on the cinder track and football field won
for him a place in the front rank. After a time,
however, Mr. Grice disappeared from active
competition, and it was learned that this was due
to recurring attacks of sciatica. After suffering
off and on for a number of years, Mr. Grice is
hearty and strong again, and he thanks Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for completely curing his
sciatica. He said
“Up to the age of 23 years I was always strong
and healthy and a well-known athlete. From that
time forward I was compelled to give up all sport,
such as running, football, etc., owing to repeated
attacks of sciatica in the right hip, and extending
to the right knee. I consulted several doctors,
who prescribed for me some medicine to take,
others blistering me and giving me lotions. The
blistering was so severe that it took all the skin off
my hip to my knee. The pain at times was well-
nigh unbearable. It was very sharp, like needles
being pushed into the flesh. It used to be worse
at night, especially if I got wet or had been work-
ing in water. The sciatic nerve was very tender
to the touch. The attack used to vary, sometimes
lasting for a week or more, and at other times for
a day or so. It was always a burning pain ; walk-
ing would irritate it. The muscles wasted away.
I had been in this state for about ten years, and
whenever it came on I used to consult the doctors,
but without receiving permanent relief, and had
come to the conclusion that it would come and go
whenever it liked. Eventually a fellow workman,
who had been cured of sciatica after being bed-
ridden for three weeks, advised me to give Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a trial, as they had cured
him. I got a box and benefited so much from their
use I kept on with them, and by the time I had
taken four boxes I felt completely cured. That is
nearly two years since, and I am happy to say I
have never had a twinge or any sign of the com-
plaint since, and I can conscientiously recommend
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to anyone suffering as I
did or for any other complaint arising from a dis-
order of the blood, as I have known several who
have benefited by their use.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are 2s. 9d. a box, six
boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers, or from The Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
Sydney.*
h
A Truss should
only be bought
from Special-
ists. We make,
DENVER’S 1
SPECIAL
ELASTIC
TRUSS
to fit each case.
Denyer Bros.
ĥ
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double.
Makers of Trusses and Abdominal Belts,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
cr. SWANSTON & LONSDALE ST.. MELBOURNE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There has been more interference with
Private Enterprise in Sydney. This is how the
blessing was conducting itself :
He found the front shop clean and in a satisfactory
condition. He then went into a room directly behind,
used for mincing meat and filling sausages by machinery.
The machine was covered with cobwebs and dirt. The
floor was dirty, and there was no protection against flies
and dust. In an adjoining room containing the brine
tub, he found a quantity of dirt sodden with brine and
giving off an offensive odor.
And some people were quite annoyed the other
day when there wasn’t enough gas to cook the
dreadful mystery that came out of the machine
that is covered with cobwebs and dirt. It is quite
true that some people never know when they are
well off.
TORY INCONSISTENCY.
December 31 saw the close of the administration by
South Australia of the Northern Territory. General
opinion is that the State administration has been a
failure.— Sydney DAILY TELEGRAPH.
THE STOUT PARTY: “ Here , you look after
this; I've made a mess of it.”
Shortly John Weary, of Victoria, will gird
on his armor and go forth to battle against the
Industrial Referenda. As part of his campaign
he will issue a manifesto which will have the
active support of the poor old Argus and the
silent sympathy of the Yes-No Age. And all
that the manifesto can declare is that it would be
dangerous for Brown, Jones and Smith to give
themselves power to do collectively what they
have already the power to do individually. To
which Brown, Jones and Smith are most likely to
say “ Rats ! ” or words to that effect.
The new census shows a population in the
United States of 91.972,266, and the wilder variety
of American is inflated thereby, and says that
within the time of people now living the figure
will go up to 250,000,000. The Bulletin hereby
bets 2d. that it won’t. Already the U.S., with its
mere 92,000,000 people, is close to the point at
which it will have to leave off exporting food and
start importing. In the meat line it is getting
there so fast that its surplus beef for sale abroad
is only a quarter what it was five years ago.
There are now altogether too many countries
which want to buy food, and too few that have
surplus food for sale; also, the former lot is
always increasing in number and the list of the
latter is always shrinking. Presently it will be a
fight between the small loaf and the large birth-
rate, and then the trouble will commence in
earnest.
Nothing doubtful in “ Montserrat ” Lime
Juice. It s good and pure. The genuine juice of
cultivated lime fruit, it is an exquisite beverage
for all the year round. A healthy drink for
children.*
John Bull is a mighty shipbuilder, yet it
seems a precarious sort of trade at best. In 1906
he took up his hammer and his packet of nails and
knocked together 886 ships totalling 1,828,343
tons. Since then the figure has steadily dropped,
till last year it represented 501 ships of 1,143,169
tons.
Maoriland Customs Department is sending
its hardware expert round the Dominion to in-
quire into the position of the iron-working busi-
ness. Local engineering firms have long com-
plained that, paying decent wages and observing
reasonable hours, they have scarcely a hope against
some of their foreign competitors. Even the
Government sends many orders abroad for work
that could be as well done at home. The man on
the land is alleged to be the worst sinner. He
wants all the Protection and Government assist-
ance he can get; yet the majority of him fights
tooth and claw against any increase of duties de-
signed to build up another industry and provide
another regiment of consumers for cocky’s flour
and butter.
One of the braw Caledonians who recently
visited Australia left a last word behind him at
Per th. He urged Australia to have an eye to the
future in the matter of its timber supply, and not
blot out its whole arboreal wealth in one act, and
leave the land a leafless desolation. In that
respect the braw Caledonian spoke wisdom. In
the last 50 years of hustle the human race has
wiped out its timber resources in an amazing
fashion. The United States, which was once
almost one vast forest, has become about as
bald as the top of Bismarck’s head in his latter
days, and there is talk of a tax on newspapers to
restrict publication, because the tearing down of
forests to make wood pulp, which ultimately
becomes the paper on which details of the mur-
der are printed, has gone beyond all reason.
Anyhow, one tree is worth 20 murders. It is a
patch of joy on the landscape, a wind-break, a
refuge against the sun and rain, and a breezy
playground for cats. And the printed murder is
read casually to-day and thrown into the tire
to-morrow.
“Billy B.”: I’m inclined to think that
“Gideon’s” notion in a recent Bulletin, “that
the House do now consider the advisability of
passing an Act to prevent the law being a darned
lunatic,” should receive great and immediate con-
sideration. The other day I paid out a good
deal of money to a steamship co. for a passage to
M.L., and this, amongst other things, is what I
had to sign for before the ticket was handed over:
The company is not liable in respect of the passenger
or of goods for the consequences of the act of God, perils
and accidents of the sea or rivers, or machinery, boilers
or steam navigation or other accidents, whether of a like
nature or otherwise, or of default or error of judgment
or negligence of pilot, master, mariners, engineers,
stevedores, servants or others employed by the co.,
whether in the navigation or management of the steamers
or otherwise, or of breach of warranty of steamer or
equipment, or of fire afloat or ashore, delay or detention
on the voyage, steamers not meeting, compulsion by the
King’s enemies, princes, rulers or people, quarantine,
riot, strikes, lock-outs, or other labor disturbances,
piracy, robbery, or theft by land or sea, whether by
servants of the co. or otherwise, or of effects of climate,
heat of holds, vermin on board, coaling on the voyage,
or of breaking of glass, china, earthenware, cast-iron or
other brittle or fragile goods, or for risk of craft or
transhipment.
I don’t mind signing-up to take the risks of the
act of God, because it is obvious no Act of Par-
liament can be framed to meet the case,
and I’ll stand for the ordinary perils and
accidents of the sea ; but when it comes
to forcing me to agree to be drowned
or burned to death through the negli-
gence of the co.’s servants or by
breach of warranty of steamer or
equipment, without compensation, I
make no apology for seconding
“Gideon’s” proposal. If all law is
to be set aside by the mere printing
and issuing of a notice that cos. and
other brigands thereby refuse to re-
cognise it, it seems a waste of good
money to keep the Law in its job.
Let’s sack the idiot right away ; in
which case, of course, w’e should have
to talk to the brigands with the
peremptory end of a gun.
Mrs. D. It. McConnell, a well-known
Queensland lady who acted as delegate to the
first International Humane Conference at Wash-
ington, wrote back to Brisbane the other day
thanking God that the “ dreadful conditions that
have made the advanced American legislation
necessary have never existed in Australia. Three
million American factory hands know no Sab-
bath, working seven days out of seven, in the
sacred name of freedom of contract.” So this
awful Socialistic legislation in Australia has its
good points, after all. Even the travelling Con-
servative lady began to see them when she got far
enough away from it to forget her prejudices.
THE PAWNSHOP HABIT.
AUSTRALIA : “I DID think better of you two!”
The S. M. Herald reckons there’s no
hurry to give the Federal Government power to
scotch meat trusts and similar constrictors,
because—
When both the farmer and producer begin to cry out
that they are being robbed, it will be time for the Com-
monwealth to step in.
In the same way, when the Herald's office boy
throws his cigarette bumper into the paper’s
heap of dry literature, with the usual combust-
ible result, the Herald doesn’t call up the fire-
brigades. Fire-brigades are ready-made machines
for extinguishing fires, and the Herald doesn’t
believe in ready-made machines for extinguishing
fires. It believes that nomachine should begin to be
made until the fire starts. So when its own pre-
mises flare up, the Herald’s practice is to
hastily secure an area in Papua, or some-
where, plant out some rubber trees, col-
lar the rubber therefrom, manufacture it
into hose, and then dash home and douse the
conflagration with water obtained from a special
rain-storm. Also, the Herald doesn’t keep a
watchman as a rule—it hires one whenever
it finds W. Sikes going through the cash-box.
There are no locks or bars on the Herald’s doors,
as the Herald sternly holds that no lock or bar
should be installed until some unauthorised person
has pushed the door open, which in the Herald’s
case is, of course, impossible, since the Herald
hasn’t any door—doors being an unnecessary pre-
caution. Similarly—because nothing should be
done beforehand —the Herald doesn’t buy a
printing press until it has something to print,
and it doesn’t engage a compositor until it has
“ copy ” for him to comp., and it has no reporter
to get “copy” for the comp, to comp, until the
thing happens for the reporter to make the
“copy” out of. Then the Herald begins to
train its reporter. It may seem a queer way to
run a paper, but that’s the way the Herald does
it, for the Herald would sooner not run at all
than take a step before the race was over.
A NEW USE FOR THE HIGH
COMMISSIONER.
The Prime Minister, speaking at a cricket meeting, said
that cricket had helped to make Australia better known
in the outside world. The Government had spent thou-
sands of pounds, but the masterly way in which citizens
of the Commonwealth had attracted the admiration of
the world by their cricket prowess had done considerably
more to advertise Australia. —News Item.
For the first time within the memory of
man, woman, child or dog, N. S. Wales possesses
a Minister who declares publicly that he doesn’t
believe in the joss of Needless Haulage, and that
he regards it as being to the interests of the State
that every part of it should have access to the
nearest good port. In fact, Minister Griffith has
had the courage to declare that N.S.W. isn’t
wholly Sydney, and that it wouldn’t be a good
thing for either N.S.W. or Sydney if it was.
After John Weary boats away to the
Coronation, some people will expect interesting
news. Rumor is already whispering that John is
tiring of his strenuous political life, and meditates
a spell in London—which is taken to mean that
Taverner will have to look for another job. Any-
way, if John doesn’t take his spell in London he
will have to take it in Melbourne; for he and his
Government are booked to leave the Treasury
benches some time this year.
At Coronation-time, the royal couple are
to review at Spithead “ the most powerful
fleet ever assembled.” At least, that is
how the announcement puts it. The
other day, it was reported that the
Admiralty wants 14,000 men to pour
into the navy, and that it can’t safely
do with less than 10,000. It may be
possible to make up “ the most power-
ful,” etc., from a service so thinly
manned ; but it suggests that some ser-
viceable ships will have to be left tied up
in dock with nothing aboard but a lonely
red-nosed watchman and an elderly cat.
The Victorian Wowser party has
resolved as follows :
That, inasmuch as the referendum of the
Federal Government in regard to the nationali-
sation of industries gives power to Parliament
to nationalise ttie liquor traffic, this Alliance is
compelled to earnestly advise the electors to
vote against such referendum.
Now, this paper earnestly invites the
Wowser party to pass a vote of no-
confidence in Providence, inasmuch as
man has been provided with legs which
give him the power to walk into a pub.
It is true that, having legs, he can also
walk into a wowser meeting, and that
he couldn’t walk into a wowser meeting
if he didn’t have legs. That, however,
is of no consequence. Obviously, the
one thing to be considered in connec-
tion with any matter is : “ Can it be
used to help a man to get drink ? ” If
it can, it is bad. Wherefore, as before
remarked, this paper calls on the wowser to be
consistent and tell the Almighty what it thinks
of Him for providing man with the limbs that
can be used to take him to a beer-bump.
The rampant Kidston of Queensland has
served notice on the Commonwealth that he
wants payment for transferred properties, with
three per cent, interest, dating from the begin-
ning of the Commonwealth. McGowen of
N.S.W. and Murray of Victoria, being a shade
less rampant, want interest from last June. For
a number of years the States received back from
the Commonwealth far more money than they
were entitled to, and far more than the Com-
monwealth could spare, as its starved postal ser-
vices prove. But in the excess of its good nature
the Federal authority didn’t intimate to the State
Treasurers that these surplus returns were to be
considered as part payment for transferred pro-
perties, hence the present unpleasant situation.
SANCTUARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All who reached the age of 17 before December 31, 1910,
are, under the Commonwealth Defence Act, exempt from
training.
I heard men of “conscription” talk; fear gripped the
heart of me.
I little thought my eighteen years would give me
sanctuary.
But now, with all my fearsallayed, I drop my weary lids—
Australia stakes its destiny on Providence and kids.
Above the harbor and the town the shells may shriek and
whine,
1 shall not care, for it will be no bus-i-ness of mine ;
But I, in splendid unconcern, against a post shall lean
And watch the slaughter grim, for I am over seventeen !’
Poor, weary, worn-out, useless men are they of twenty-
one,
Too old to march, too old to ride, too weak to grasp a gun ;
These ancients now may doze in peace ; by none can they
be harmed
Because ( Hip-hip-hoo-blanky-ray!) our kindergarten’s
armed 1
O pink-< heeked kids ! of all the world you are most dear
to me;
I go to barrack for my side, you go to fight for me ;
God bless our legislators kind ! I render them m3’ thanks
For saving me from shouldering a rifle in the ranks.
N.S.W.
WALTER OWALT.
THE GOAT THEORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The polling in April last proved, as we know now, that
Labor candidates everywhere obtained great support from
non-Labor electors.— Argus ( IS/l/’ll).
“ I am,” observed the simple soul, “a silly fool, I know ;
I don’t believe in Labor, but—well, here goes, let ’ergo ! ”
He grabbed his ballot-paper in his anti-Labor fist,
And with a snigger put his cross for Labor on the list.
“ I am a dainn-Australian, yes,” he said, and shook with
mirth,
“ And Labor is to me the worst calamity on earth ;
And—yes, I know it’s foolish, and I am a barmy goat,
But—oh, well, here’s my stupid anti-Labor Labor vote !
“ I ought to vote Blow-Labor, for I am no Laborite,”
He muttered ; and he chortled, as an utter loony’ might.
“ I ought to vote against ’em—they are blasters of the
’Ome ;
Still—here’s my vote to help ’em cut my anti-Labor
comb ! ”
The voter giggled madly up his anti-Labor sleeve.
“I am a foolish sort of coot, and ratty 7, I believe ;
I’m voting—and I know it—for the foes of Truth and
Right,
And Freedom and No-Tyranny—the friends of Wreck and
Blight!
“I know,” he groaned—“l know it is a crazy thing to
do !
I must be ratty, really, voting for this Labor crew 1
Blow Labor! Curse the monster! ” And he grinned a
Labor grin—
Thus another foe to Labor helped the Labor men get in !
VICTORIA.
THE SILOVER.


THE
FEURICH PIANO
of to-day is the result of the conscientious
work of a family of master piano-builders,
who, for over fifty years, have maintained
the FEURICH PIANO as the most
advanced, artistic product of the times.
The tone quality and workmanship of
this instrument please the most critical.
OUR TERMS.
We sell any instrument, if desired, on terms of extended
payment to suit each individual. We arrange for payment
to be extended over one, two, or three years according to
the desire of the customer, whose wishes we meet in
every possible way. We go further: we are prepared to
take old instruments in part payment, so that the purchasing
of a new one is hardly felt.
In a Word, Your Wishes are Ours.
NICHOLSON 8 CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. ORANGE.
ARDATH
LONDON
VYIhfpREB"
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
How many smokers really care
what cigarettes they smoke ?
How many always insist on
having their particular brand ?
The answer would astonish any
who do not know the remarkable
sale of “Winfred” Cigarettes,
a high-class brand produced
only for men who will smoke
the best purchasable.
Types of
British Manhood.
THE BUSINESS MAN"
finds “Winfred” Cigarettes no
inconsiderable asset when engaged
in a deal. Says that their quality is
his only excuse for smoking in the
office.
10
6d.
1/-
Plain or Gold Tipped
Obtainable of all leading Tobac-
conists, Stores, Clubs, Ho els,
&c., throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
3 ~
Wfc
%
1 x
FURNITURE FUR ALL TIME.
CARLYLE says : “If I want an article, let it be genuine, at
whatever price ; if the price is too high for me I will go
without it, unequipped with it for the present —I shall
not have equipped myself with hypocrisy, at any rate.”
Farmer’s Furniture is what it seems to be —good materials,
good workmanship and good intentions. As an instance :
The Rawson Oak Dining-Room Suite.
Oak Sideboard, bevelled plate-glass at back, copper
enrichments, sft. long, 6ft. 6in. high ... o o
Six Small Chairs and Two Carving Chairs, Oak
Frames, upholstered in Rexine ... ... 10 o o
Oak Dinner Waggon, 3ft. 6in. wide ... ... 315 o
Extension Oak Dining Table, 6ft. x 3ft. 6in ... 3 5 o
PRICE COMPLETE £32 0 0
Write for our Furnishing Catalogue Sent Post Free.
FARMER & CUMPANY Limited,
Pitt, Market & George Streets, Sydney
The vStove that makes
Coo King a Pleasure !
NEW PERFECTION
QL- U E FUAME WI C K
OIL COOKING STOVE
On Sale at all Dealers ( or write direct to
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.


We hear from Messrs. Swift & Company, 32
O’Connell Street, Sydney, Agents for “ Charles
Heidsieck ” Champagne, that their Principal has
been honored by H.M. King George V. with the
Royal Warrant, and that his Champagne is now
being supplied, as heretofore, at most of the Royal
functions. M. Charles Marcel Heidsieck, who was
with us a year ago, is the eldest son of the senior of
this firm, which is composed of MM. Charles and
Henri Heidsieck, and they are the only ones of that
name now in the Champagne manufacturing busi-
ness. M. Charles Marcel Heidsieck will be favor-
ably remembered by many people whom he met
during his Australasian visit, and he keeps his name
in pleasant remembrance by many cordial little
cards and notes sent from all parts of the world. He
is still touring, and trusts to revisit Australia before
he finishes his all round the world journeying.*
PI-iOM
ħ
Renowned.
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Deticacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London,E.C,
K
V
likes a cup of tea in bed
ev’ry morning. It makes her
have no headache all day. Mum
says she would not have any
other tea in the house ’cept
Robur, and 1 has the sugar in
the bottom of the cup. She says
when 1 grows up l must always
get Robur ’cause it’s good,
and same as what the doctor
drinks, what ’tends baby.
Girlie.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, January 23, 1911.
Mt Dear Artni,—
Between Miss Lefroy, bon. sec. of the British
Women’s Emigration League, and Count Fritz
Hochhefg we Wretched Australasians are getting
more chastening than weappreciate. MissLefroy,
talking at the other end of the Immigration
domestic line, complains amongst other and
firstly, secondly and thirdly complaints, that in
Sydney the girls are expected to go to the situa-
tions selected for them on the day of their
arrival. “ We think that it is only fair that a
girl should be able to have two or three days’
rest when she comes straight from the ship before
having to take up a place. In Westralia there is
a borhe where they are allowed to stay free of
expense for three days, and there are similar
arrangements in Canada.”
So says this strange person. If she had argued
that a few days should be allowed the girls for a
run around the city and suburbs, none would bite
a thumb at her for her liberality ; but to demand a
three-days’ rest after the unqualified five or six
weeks’ rest, or rather inertia, they have had on the
vessel is absurd. Long before the voyage is ended
the girls are weary of the idle time. And, as
Mfss Lefroy and her friends constantly assert
that the girls ought to be under super-
vision from the time they leave London
to the hour they are put into situations;
is it not the more excellent way to send them
direct to the situations the Bureau has secured ?
A young woman fresh from, say, a 42 days’ loaf
on a'steamer isn’t likely to take the rest-cure in a
reception home. And as “ personally-conducted
tours” of the capital cities are not likely, the
damsel might strike trouble.
Ahyhow, the Australian mistress now only
accepts the immigrant girl as a last resource. No
trained domestic servants come hither. The de-
mand in their own country is too keen. Those
sent forward with so much fuss and controversy
are, casual workers, or factory hands. “ What
have you been doing in your own country ? ”
asked an Australian employer of her immigrant
girl ivith house-and-parlor maid references and no
domestic knowledge. “ I was in a soap factory,”
was the reply. “ And how did you get these
references?” “Oh, I lived with friends for a
while and helped with the work.”
As for Count Fritz von Hochberg, he was a tall
nobleman with an eyeglass who stayed awhile at the
Australia some three years ago. Now two beauti-
fully got up crimson volumes blazon his im-
pressions of travel. “An Eastern Voyage:
A; .Journal of Travel Through the British
Empire in the East and South and Japan.
By Count Fritz von Hochberg.” He came here
on the Bremen, and this is what he says of his
fellow-passengers: “ A more disreputable-looking
lot I honestly have never seen. Where do they
fish them from on these boats, I wonder ? How
they travel first-class I can’t conceive.” At
Fremantle this German porcine person told the
authorities that their country was not fit
for civilised people. That was because they
wanted guarantees about his native servant.
Then he went on shore. “ And what a shore !
Never, thank goodness, have my eyes seen such a
desolate, untidy, miserable country,” . . . and,
mind you, the sky was blue and the sun shining.
“But the sky is a colorless blue.” . . . The in-
habitants of Perth are a staring, sulky, vulgar
lot, who “remind him of Czech miners of the
lowest class.”
The noble count’s fellow-passengers, travelling
first-class with him from Adelaide to Melbourne,
“ were at first sight an awful lot of awful-looking
ruffians. They were ill at ease at table” —and
again he wonders at them travelling first-class.
Tlfey reminded him of “ the clumsiest German
laboring class without their good humor.”
The landscape all the way is uglier than the
people who inhabit it. Melbourne —but this is
delicious :
Melbourne is . . . a largish, suburban-looking town,
with a vulgar-looking crowd of people and over-dressed,
second-class-looking women.
Sydney is overrun with the Jewish type; but,
Jewish or non-Jewish, all the people have the
same sallow complexions and hunted expressions.
The people here are frightfully noisy and common.
They are really an awful lot. And such pretentious com-
moners! They think such a lot of themselves/ I can’t
help saying this...l feel out of place, as if 1 was dining in
the Servants’ hall, not even the housekeeper’s room.
As he is here in November he eats delicious
fruit. He admits its deliciousness, but resents
the feast of fruit in November as “ topsyturvev-
dom.” He meets Mr. “Jim” Osborne of Gun-
deroo, and approves of him. He visits Mr.
White’s stud farm, near Muswellbrook, and is
delighted.’ He admires our black opals and our
pea,ches. And his opinions of M.L. and its native
race and Prohibition are unspeakable.
One feels sure that Count Fritz has pub-
lished his two “loud” muzzy books at his own
expense. The volumes come from Dymock’s.
This is the only unkind act Dymock has ever done
to me.
Nothing doing but clothes-making and clothes-
showing. Farmer’s (of Victoria House) took
Sargents’ballroom in Market-street for the dis-
play of their new season’s model imports.
Several frocks from the Brussels Exhibition stand
in beauty side by side, like the youngsters in Mrs.
Hemans’s poem. Later, perhaps, these frocks will
fill some hearts with glee. The hearts of the wearers.
Other hearts will probably harbor indigo-blue
devils. An indigo-hued devil worrying a red-haired
slender woman because she cannot acquire an
emerald and black evening gown will be singu-
larly appropriate. The first thing that strikes
you about this ebon over emerald prize Brussels
sprout is its apparent simplicity. Almost you
think it is just the “ little ” frock for which you
are searching. The second impact you get is its
p r j ce —7s guineas. The woman who has learnt
her catechism, with its innumerable “Whys,”
now instinctively looks the gown over, her eyes
resolved into two sentient notes of inter-
rogation. Well, there’s the frock itself, of green
charmeuse; then there’s the over-frock of black
ninon. A wide black velvet belt nearly
defines the waist. A crescent of the velvet
goes over the bust; some deep, real lace shows
under the ninon ; and the principal decorations
are done in opal-like bugle bead, which run the
length of the skirt in narrow panels. The train
is square (or, to be accurate, spade-shaped)
and long, the bugle beading following the
shape of the train. Ten thousand dewdrops
(apparently) gem the corsage, which is mildly
decollete. Other kinds of jewel-like beads enter
into this composition. But you guess from this
inadequate description that it is only pretending
to be simple.
Another gown is royal blue, overcome with
fine black net. Again you say Why ? and some-
one with enough knowledge not to be dangerous
—that is, a lot of knowledge—draws your atten-
tion to the fact that every one of the tiny squares
of the net overdress is jewelled at its four tiny
corners. These four atomic gems were sewn on
by hand ! Find out how many net squares, and
then multiply the sum by four. Aye, fegs ! but
the gown is too cheap at 70 guineas. And unless
the person who ordered its creation paid his
workers in proportion to the sale price, he ought
to be in one of Franz Josef’s gaols. The model, I
hear, is a Viennese.
There’s a beautiful black velvet hat, with a great
soft ring of greyish brown ostrich feathering and
one white kid rose. There’s a black velvet toque
like half a muff, with a complacent ermine animal
in it. If you buy and wear it, the stoat’s front
paws will be projected over your left eye, and
your friends will certainly press one paw warmly
in greeting, saying: “How are you ? What
small, soft hands you’ve got.”
The new sunshades are deeply fringed, and
have a ribbon strap for the insertion of your arm.
It’s not a loop—it’s a glorified strap with a big
button or a bogus jewel in the middle of its silky
length. You may carry your parasol now far up
on the biceps and triceps muscles of your arm and
have your hands free to hold a muff as big as a
three-months’ baby, or a handbag the size of a
suit-case.
Amongst the new furs are black fox, blue fox
and stone marten. But I fancy I’ve been hearirig
of these beasts as long as I’ve lived.
The scarves are silken, and as fine as spindrift.
You’ll wonder how much sheer materials bear the
weight of perhaps a 15-inch border of milk-white
and iridescent beads and a foot depth of silk
fringe.
Ratine, the new material for tailor-mades,
shows itself very like a fine, thin viyella. All
wool, and seven shillings (and some forgotten
coppers) a yard.
The hand-knitted wool coats, full length and
three-quarters, in white, dark blue and brown
wool, look very smug—if your imagination reaches
to next winter.
Prince Leopold of Battenhurg glode away to
M.L. unostentatiously last Wednesday. He and
his Spanish-looking companion-attendant (Dr.
Mcllroy) motored to the Freshwater part of
Manly on one of the two days they had in
Sydney. A quite young and pretty little married
woman, one of the doctor’s Australian friends, who
chanced to be down there, was presented to the
royal person, and by him was invited to walk and
talk. The twain walked and talked accordingly
for some time, and none of the numerous strollers
and resters knew the identity of the male walker,
or he would ceftainly have secured a large follow-
ing.
Adeline, Duchess of Bedford, who arrived by
the Malwa, and was in Melbourne a few days ago,
is the widow of the late Duke of Bedford, and
sister-in-law of the present one. She was Lady
Soners-Cocks, daughter of Earl Somers. So
far, no one has asked her if she has come to
visit the Dudleys, take up land or visit the Caves.
But, most likely, Lady Dudley is the magnet.
The widowed peeress, who has no children, was
tenderly disposed to the youhg Gurney girls—
meaning Lady Dudley and heYsisters.
The Marie Antoinette cap was seen at the
Royal on Saturday night, probably for the first
time here. Mrs. Dunlop, of Kirribilli, was the
wearer. A current American magazine has a
copy of Frangois Flameng’s picture of Marie
Antoinette on iier way to execution, and the cap
she wears is of the then French peasant (or cito-
yenne, as no doubt the woman who dressed the
Queen would prefer to call it) order. It was a mob
cap of muslin, with a black ribbon drawing
in the crown. The glorified copy, all dull gold
net, and fine ribbon in shades of dull pink, green
and blue, that the queen and her friends used to
wear, was a very swell relation indeed. If the
wearing of these pretty caps for the theatre be-
comes general, no doubt each wearer will get
away from the “authentic model” (all our big
Sydney shops have now got an “authentic
model”) so far as colors and materials are con-
cerned. The citizeness cap would be alluring if
“ expressed ” in muslin and lace.
Rev. Gordon Tidy, who labored in the fashion-
able St. James’s vineyard under the Rev. Carr-
Smith, and subsequently had charge of the
Bathurst Cathedral in the absence abroad of Dean
Marriott, has joined the Cardinal’s Church. He
did the deed last week. Later, he will join the
priesthood. The new’vert is a sound Latin and
Greek scholar arid h man of wide reading. Also,
he wields a ready pen. The fine “ appreciation ”
which Sydney Telegraph published at the time
of Gladstone’s death was written by Mr. Tidy, as
was the same paper’s scholarly article on New-
man, when that prelate died. His verses have
appeared in The Bulletin and in various British
reviews.
The French warship Montcalm lias broken a
little of the stagnation of Sydney society and
Farm Cove. It is a beautiful, grey, fighting
monster, with red on its waterline and a navi-
gating officer whom the girls adored. Several
private parties were entertained, and a reception
to French residents was held last Friday.
What miracles our heavy summer rains are
working in the way of growth in the gardens !
On the first morning the Congress sat,
your Akenehi sowed some beans. That was on a
Monday. On Thursday, Providence, driven there-
to by the extreme dryness of the Congress, sent
the rain. For the following few days it rained
reservoirs, with interludes of hot sunshine, and I
did not go to look at my bean patch until Tuesday
morning. I got a shock. Providence and His
rain had indeed given me beans. They were six
inches high ! They hadn’t grown ; they had
jumped —and in such haste that a lot of them
carried up their brown suit-cases with them, and
the luggage, never to be wanted again on any
voyage, clung despairingly to reluctant green
fingers.
Sweet Grapes Damsel: “ Are you coming to
the Coronation?” Sour Grapes Damsel: “No;
I can see that kind of show in greater comfort
and for five shillings in a theatre. Always man-
aged so much better, too. No fog or pouring
rain, as no doubt you’ll have it. George the Fifth
won’t look as well as Julius Knight and Cuyler
Hastings did in kingship scenes.”
Memo, for those about to travel to the Cold
Country : At the end of the first fortnight of
December, London had seen the sun for an average
of Bmin. each day during the month.
Miss Kate Rooney writes from London of
hoiv she went to a concert at which she
was not on the programme. At her own or
anyone else’s concert she always marvels at
a good attendance, and only some unusual lure
brings her into an auditorium. However, early
in December she put on, with a frock to suit, one
of the big picturesque hats bought by her in
Paris and described in The Lone Hand Fashion
Dictates for January, and fared forth to a recital
given by Mr. Harold Coen, a young Melbourne
singer. He has been studying three years in London
and intends to do further work in Italy. Well, the
contralto was delierhted. “He has an exception-
ally beautiful baritone of great range (though
singing as tenor), afid he uses it with all the tem-
perament and natural charm of an Italian. He
should by-and-bye take front rank as an operatic
singer.”
Of special interest to Miss Rooney were Mr.
Coen’s four songs, in English, from. Heine’s
“ New Spring Cycle,’’set to music by Mr. George
Boyle, the Sydney pianist. “They are real
musical gems,” adds the writer, “ and their
enticing titles are as follows: (a) ‘Soft and
Gently Through Mv Soul’; (b) ‘When By
Chance You Cross My Path ’ ; (c) ‘ Golden Stars
Across the Heavens’ ; (d) ‘ Who Was It ?’ The last
is dedicated to the baritone, who sings profes-
sionally as Harold Colonna. The piano playing,
at the same recital, of Mr. W. Murdoch won him
as much audible appreciation as any artist could
desire. He also is a Victorian, very young, and
I am told (for I do not personally know Mr.
Murdoch or Mr. Coen) kept busy with plenty of
engagements.” The recital was at the unusual and
comfortable hour of 5 p.m., and was over about
6.30.
Latest about soprano Nora Long makes good
reading for her friends. After she had sung at
Lyons in “ Marguerite,” “ Salome,’’ “ Manon,
“Rigoletto” and “Hamlet,” the Lyonese public
desired to hear her in a Wagnerian r6le, and
when the mail left she was on the eve of appear-
ing as Elsa in “Lohengrin.” Foreign critics say
the most flattering things of her voice and dramatic
fire.
Talking of music-makers : A batch of San
Francisco press cuttings are witnesses in black on
white of the reaping of laurels by Mrs. Eileen
O’Moore, an Australian-born violinist, of whom
Sydney has heard in print at intervals for some
years, and whom it heard personally on the fiddle
a few years ago. Mrs. Ewan Frazer gave a recep-
tion of considerable magnitude and brightness to
ye introduce the handsome player to Sydney.
After teaching lor a year or so, Mrs. O’Moore
went California-Wards, taking with her. a pupil-
genius. Muriel Andrews. This girl, who is now
about 15, had just appeared with great success at
the Greek Theatre.
A scholarship, tenable at the St. John s Wood
Art School (London) has been won by a Sydney
girl temporarily resident a boomerang’s throw
from the brush-and-palette centre of Chelsea, on
the batiks of the barge-covered Thames. The
winner, Clarice Sandford, obtained this distinc-
tion for her water-colors. Last year, within a
fortnight of her arrival from Australia, she
acquired a scholarship at the London Art School,
This was for her figure work, and her judges—the
noted Brangwyn, R.A. (whose work, “The
Scoffers,” with its Persian-Turkish carpet effect,
is on the walls of our Art Gallery), and our
own George Lambert —told her that, had she
arrived a little earlier and been able to compete
for the portrait work, the laurels would certainly
have been hers. Miss Sandford has won sundry
first prizes, and when the last mail left three
R.A.’s were trying to decide whether a silver
medal for some more brush work should be hers
or the other girl’s. Let’s hope the Australian
Atlanta won.
Some imminent weddings: Miss Nivison, of
Walcha, to Mr. Turton, of Sydney; and Miss
McKinney, of Neutral Bay, to Dr. Ashe, of
IMacquari e-street.
Concerning brides : The girl who was the un-
commonly pretty Miss Turland, of Neutral Bay,
land who became Mrs. Dixson (marrying, a few
months ago, a son of the Hugh Dixsons) is re-
turning from her scarcely-begun honeymoon,
i Sea-sickness and the heat at Cairo proved too
much for the young traveller.
And concerning homing pigeons: Dr. and
■ Mrs. Vivers —she was Miss Irene Marks—are to
• return to Sydney. Their friends are out with
!: microscopes looking for a house for them.
A charming brace of Melbournians, Mr. and
i Mrs. Siede, have enriched Sydney with their
; holiday presence. Worst of it is that by the
time one gets to know of charming visitors’ pre-
i sence they are rummaging for their return tickets.
> In the English Sketch is a portrait of Miss
| Ann Moorhouse, niece of Sefton Moorhouse, who
i was Superintendent of Canterbury (M.L.) years
! ago, and a cousin of Bishop Moorhouse. She is a
handsome girl. All the Moorhouses, men and
women, have more than their share of good looks.
This girl’s engagement to the only son of the
Bishop of Winchester is announced, hence the
SKETCH-ing.
So many Australians, especially in the bush
and country towns, knew an abnormally active
and luxuriantly red-haired little woman, Mrs.
Geddes Crawford. She was a life assurance can-
vasser, and it may interest her thousands of
acquaintances to know that she is in business in
Brisbane, selling farms, houses and land, and sup-
plying farm workers, tutors and governesses.
What is more, she is doing as well at the many-
sided job as if she were a clever man instead of a
clever woman.
From Chapman’s music stores comes a copy of
a charming waltz playable by almost any amateur
at sight. “ Loneliness ”it is rather satirically
named. While the band plays “ Loneliness the
ballroom floor will be densely inhabited.
A charitable and most generous friend sends
me £lO for the Child Study Association. Sincere
thanks!
There are points about having an influential
prospective father-in-law, even after the girl has
decided to drop you. So at least thinks a young
man in a big Sydney warehouse. Though in a
minor position, he became engaged to the head s
daughter. Now the damsel, after thinking things
over, decides “No.” To solace the gallants
grief he is sent off to a good position in the firm’s
London branch, where his monthly cheque will
be appreciably more bloated and the choice of
damsels may also perhaps be wider.
Sir Ernest Shackleton has been telling a Lon-
don interviewer that most of the men who went
with him to Antarctica grew stronger crops of
hair than they started with. The hair grew moie
slowly, but was thicker in quality and quantity.
He reckons absence of germs to be one of the
incentives to hair growth. An official of a Lon-
don cold storage company, on being asked for
further evidence on the matter, told that his com-
pany hadn’t a bald-headed man in its employ.
They work all day in 20deg. of frost. All of
which reminds me that Mr. T. E. Donne, now
something Large and Representative of Maori-
land in London, once told me that of a thousand
convicts paraded for him in Sing Sing prison, in
America, not one was bald-headed. Moral : Ex-
treme cold, or criminality are equally beneficial
for the hair. Question: Would a criminal living
in Antarctica become haired like a Polar bear ?
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


/M
m
S'-
f
/
B£t
M l Wu
fH7W*
v iW*
M/A
:f
Z3^
illft
:f)m \WMmI
_ Vi£f v 3 B .*■. ; 2 > -: vCVN \S»
hmw
i
It l /
;zX£g s v ~*
■r.P
imlmmlmll
we:
Ipt'llt
res
Uv .f
l
x
r*s2
$0 ■ • 1
v:
gj&s
Si
N
*ss
:
lS**“
SrfS
V'
figt
i
ft*
X
SSIS
s
IT
/■Vx
*#&£•
;■■ -
mmm&
3S
■'V : ■••■:>
H A*
mm
wmm
X-.:.; , *.. *:•* •-.—
m
m
mm.
■K^
m#
mk
m
tm
-■asfSfeW |c
di?
~jf&T>:: f Q*'’SJ"ls
"Is
BsS&sSBA®?
m
i! II
V„X'.
a?
a
:. / Wr*-i
#4n
Li&rrr-S&tfr?
m
m
m
V;
- )•’•••
as
m
ar**
- X
*33
tfsr
B?Xj
\
cs
m
mm
J 1
,• -r - fey;vK’-Xx p
!SS ;
I=3=
StfSPPf '•■
«i«V
3
X;
_ * -ll" l *’:--}<Kl->-‘:f c <-v;.
I /"'"- " "'■'v- 1 . *\ i /•'j.'Av' -V 'i’ , ..' v ; , '-iK... 1 - ■
4'4^-pi ;
a
fil
v&offr-x
K&
i
8®
-S/mV
M
.s4wv»*S
v>7-:
fpftjyg
--•-•■■
S«i>'
\ ■ >
r : 4 v. a
II
m
i wmtmmmmn
p|v
m®*W- \ ;v.;i 4 v
ifi:
■M
COBRA, Ufye_ Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, Boot Polish,
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With the cat
And dog for crew,
’Neath the tree-fern’s
Nodding frond
Floats upon
The Polish Pond.
Chunder thinks
It’s very fine
Just to fish with
Rod and line
While the cat
Keeps a look out
For a nice, big,
Juicy trout.


Nipped in the Bud.
A cold, cough or influenza cun he nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for coughs and colds. Price Is. 6d.
and 3s.*
DUNLOP
RUBBER
make hard pavements feel like
pile carpet.
YOU can walk further, with
less exertion and more comfort,
when using our soft Dunlop
Heels—TßY THEM.
Various Shapes and Sizes. Obtainable All Leading
Stores. Accept only “Dunlop” Brand.
THR DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.
Once
Use a
Dunlop
Tennis
Ball £
and
You
Will
Use
No
Other.
ex
U
A
DUNLOP
TENNIS
BALLS
being freshly made and free
from perish, ensure you satis*
faction that is not obtainable
from the imported article.
Just try a “Dunlop” Ball
and note the difference.
Obtainable all leading Sports Depots
. DUNLOP RUBBER CO, »11 Sun* «nd N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne:, January 23, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The social upper-crust of Melbourne has been
blown clean off and over to Hobart The devas-
tation was completed when the Dudleys departed.
One recent trip of the Loongana (the express tur-
bine that runs to the scheduled minute) the
steamer had nearly 500 passengers aboard, lhere
was not room for everybody in cabins; so shake-
'downs were made on deck. The next moining
a worried crowd greeted the dawn. It had been
a hot night, and a powdering of smuts from the
red funnels had settled upon the countenances of
the sleepers. When daylight showed them their
awful selves, there was a stampede for below ; but
the saloon and the cabins were full, and the
crowds round the bathrooms were large and
watchful. The result was that the deck crowd
had to wait miserably for their turn until the boat
was steaming up the long, winding length of the
Tamar.
Members H. J. M. Campbell and Warrnambool
Hutchinson travelled with Governor Carmichael
and Secretary Victor Hood on their last country
wanderings. The two politicians got a lot of
bafty-nursing practice even when far from their own
electorates. The country rose hospitably to wel-
come the Governor, and it always brought the baby.
There was, in particular, a tea fight at Cape
Bridgewater that was simply packed tight with
young Australians. The “Willie” Clarkes, of
Mount Schank, with their very pretty daughters
dimpling about, gave the * gubernatorial party
breakfast. The family has just from a
sojourn in Kent. And while some folk feted the
Governor’s party, others gave them a blissful
period of rest. Kirby, of Coleraine, after hosting
a luncheon, handed over a cool, shady house, full
of reposeful afternoon hours. At Hamilton, of
course, “Jack ” Thompson helped Mayor Jenner
to put that part of the Western District at his
Ex.’s disposal; and at Mount Sturgeon—almost
the last stage home—Harold, of the Armytages,
and Howard Taylor did the welcoming.
The storm that swept over Melbourne one day
last week and spilt three-quarters of an inch of
Judkins’s XXX in a quarter of an hour found out
some weak spots in the city’s new station.
Neither gutters nor gratings had been supplied to
the ramps, which speedily became rapids, down
which only reckless small boys dared venture.
Perceiving this, home-going shoppers made for
the Elizabeth-street subways, only to be met
by a cascade pouring down the steps into
a lake whose depth could only be guessed
at. At Richmond, the situation was worse. The
street drains became choked, and a 3ft. torrent
poured into the station entrance. Many women
had sought shelter in the waiting-room, and
when the stream crept up they mounted the
chairs. As the fluid steadily rose screams warned
the porters of impending disaster, and one valiant
youth waded in and effected numerous rescues.
He was rewarded with thanks and an occasional
hug. But the last damsel had another matter on
her mind. She was no sooner bestowed on dry
land than she straightly charged the sopping
official to return and grope for her hatpin !
The Bush Nursing scheme which failed so dis-
mally at first is picking up again. At the commit-
tee meeting of the Victorian Bush Nursing
Association, held last week in Melbourne Town
Hall under the guiding hand of the Carmichael
lady, the first appointment was made. Nurse
Thompson, a Victorian, trained at the Mel-
bourne Hospital, is the very first Bush Nurse.
She was chosen from many applicants, all
of them highly-trained Nightingales. Since her
hospital days she has had six years of
private nursing, much of it in the country. The
Melbourne District Nursing Association is kindly
giving the new Bush Nurse some wrinkles before
she departs for Beech Forest some time in
February.
The anti-Socialistic Government is now running
a State hash-house at Richmond, a mile or so
from Melbourne. The ancient Richmond Coffee
Palace has been turned into a paying-guestery for
immigrants, and the officials of “ Richmond
House” are busy declaring that their
meals are worth at least one-and-six. The good
old roast beef, pork, lamb and mutton of Aus-
tralia are provided daily at these sixpenny ban-
quets, with a solid backing of plain and fancy
dishes; and one of the importeds was so utterly
satisfied with Socialism (at 6d. a time) that he
wrote as follows in the visitors’ book: “I am
d sorry to be turned out by the Government.
I could not be treated better anywhere.”
Mrs. Andrew Fisher goes with her Prime
Minister to the Coronation; but she is leaving
Baby behind, possibly because Baby might cry
just at the most awesome moment. The infant is
to suck its comforter in the care of grandmamma
and a nurse while mamma is helping hoist the
newly-set jewels upon George’s head. W hen the
Government boat went to meet the arriving Yarra
and Parramatta, Baby Fisher was a personage
aboard. Mamma and grandmamma were too de-
voted to allow a nurse to hold the mite for a
moment, but took turns all day at dandling.
Other approaching summer weddings are now
casting kitchen-teas in Melbourne. The Mad-
den niece, Viola Bingham, who is one of the
brides-elect, has clever fingers; she is herself
making many of the fascinating flimsies for which
other similarly-placed girls rush to French con-
vents or Paris shops. Muriel Eucles and Ethel
Fisken are two other Tooraketty smart girls who
are hearing rehearsals of wedding bells.
One of the handsome Anderson twins is leaving
the sister with whom she shares a birthday, and
venturing into matrimony. Miss Isla marries
Mr. Walter Colville Steele early in February at
the Andersons’ Beaconsfield place, Mooraverty.,
Tasmanian Professor Neil Smith has annexed
Miss Ruby Dawson Fallon, of Warrnambool, in
matrimony. The new Mrs. Neil Smith is the
pretty niece of the late E. G. Fitzgibbon, for so
many years town clerk of Melbourne—the cyclonic
old gentleman who could make three sentences
run to a newspaper column.
Senator Findley was married last week to Miss
Foyle, daughter of the late J. C. Foyle, of Warr-
nambool. Miss Fovle is an ardent suffragette,
and although the tight is won in Australia she
will no doubt have many opportunities of helping
in elections. The bride, who wore a peach silk
gown, was given away by Prime Minister Fisher.
The wedding party ate some food at Richardson s
cafe; after which the honeymooners departed for
Longstaff is breaking away from his work
in Fogland, and coming back to Australia to visit
his mother, a charming old lady who lives in a big,
cool house and garden at Shepparton (Vic.). A
sister, Jean, has just taken up work in the hound-
ling Hospital, where she spends her time happily,
looking after about 16 babies from morning till
Pursey Chirnsides are living the Simple
Life among apple orchards at Brown s River, in
Van Diemen’s Land. The latest fad is to put on
simple linen or mnslin, and go fruit gathering.
The master-stroke or knock-out from a costuming
point of view is a scarf of bright-colored silk
bound tightly round the hair allegedly to keep the
locks from getting entangled in leaves and twigs
and caterpillars. A cerise scarf, tied ala Mane
Antoinette or Mammy Chloe, is good for a maga-
zine-cover effect, if worn with a Dutch-blue linen.
The green of the trees and the gras3, of course,
provides the setting.
From London comes the story that at a meeting
of the Austral Club the dreadful question was
discussed whether an official lady should be re-
ceived into the fold. Austral Clubbers frowned
and said : “Well, you know”; till presently it
was pointed out that probably before long , t ‘ le
lady wouldn’t care whether she was received into
the fold or not, wherefore the fold had better
make a virtue of necessity. So the lady was in-
vited ; whereupon, naturally, the lady was indis-
posed, and couldn’t make it convenient, etc.
Professor Tucker’s dame, one of Melbourne s
ardent Shakspearian students, departs with her
grown birdlings for a final finishing polish. They
will reach Fogland in time for the Coronation;
but as it will take three years to complete the
finishing process, the pageant will only be the
gorgeous overture to a lot of hard study.
Bess Norris, our clever miniaturist, departs for
London again this week with her busy husband,
James Nevin Tait, who is going to direct the
forthcoming tour of Kennerley Rutnford and
Clara Butt through Britain, South Africa and
America. After it has polished off those conti-
nents the party will descend on Australia.
Ruby Moore, who went to London a while ago
to study the latest medical-science methods of
producing the voice and improving one’s health
and beauty, is now returning to Melbourne to
teach the Ideal Physical Training. She brings
with her Miss Alexander Hughes, a bright
Englishwoman, whose name sounds Welsh. The
“Ideal” system includes organised games and
dancing as adjuncts to formal physical exercise,
and it has been adopted by the London County
Council in preference to the Swedish drill, which
is jerky and unduly hard on young muscles. Miss
Hughes, by the way, is “organised-games”
lecturer for the L.C.C., and she and Ruby Moore
have compiled a booklet on the scope and purpose
of their cult. There are some capital photos, in
the booklet, and the gist of its doctrines is that all
lessons in physical exercises should delight the
kiddies and tend to a graceful formation of
character. Grown-ups who read between the
lines may glean the suggestion that most people’s
bodily education has been shockingly neglected in
their youth.
From a correspondent in the Red Sea or there-
abouts :
The two prettiest girls in Cairo at Christmas time were
the daughters of a very well-known Melbourne solicitor.
They were having the time of their lives. The English
Government sees to it that only rich regiments, mostly
Guards, get stationed in Egypt, because living is dear.
The place also attracts tourist traffic fleeing from the
English fogs. The richest of those who a few years ago
wintered at Nice and Monte Carlo now go to Egypt, and
from the middle of January till the end of March Cairo
is a gay shop, bubbling with scandal. Until the other
women are there in larger quantities, when the season
“ gets going,” those who are on hand in December can
pick and choose for their dance partners among peers
and other varieties of cigarette-holder. There are
five leading hotels; and at each there is one dance
a week, to which guests at the other four good
hotels are invited, togeiher with the garrison officers
and leading civil officials. Any young woman whose papa
has struck pay gravel, or ship-owned, or sold lard at
huge profits, provided she has been to a decent school,
gets passed on from one desirable Guardsman partner to
another—red coats and exquisite manners thrown in.
The taller and prettier of the two Melbourne girls did
the thing beautifully—just the right kind of smile and
the right kind of coy archness; and complete success
followed.
From which it looks as though the Whiting girls
may have picked their Christmas bone in Egypt.
The Jesters, the Follies and the Pierrots have
had much ado to smile at the weather of late.
Open-air theatres are all right when a summer is
a summer; but when whirlwinds and waterspouts
combine, one can’t go by the almanac. Ship-
owner Howard Smith, who dwells in the midst of
all these entertainments, and is simply next door
to the Follies, has postponed his legal argument
with the Taits. The case sagged, and it was laid
gently aside while the Howard Smith folk took
themselves to a seaside where there are no Follies
and no entertainments. The Jesters remain
cheerful, despite the weather. They make
a weekly break inland, and sing and
pirouette under cover at Ballarat. They have
three comedians, who are often humorous;
also a tenor with admirable legs, baby-fair
hair and blue eyes, who sobs out love songs while
Gertie nestles against the great-coat of Alf in the
dimly-lit amphitheatre. Jester Walton, who ap-
pears to carefully resemble Cromwell, dances an
inspiriting fling. Being a seaman, he, of course,
dances with a girl—Miss Henderson. In his cap-
tain’s rig he reminds one of dead Commander
Colquhoun. And then there is Jester Peacock, a
singer who can put a bit of butter into his love
songs. These open-air theatres are the favorite
goals of motoring frivollers. Motor bonnets and
motor swathings take up quite half the room ;
and there are plenty of cosy corners.
Sousa and his band are coming to Australia,
and will be in Sydney about March. Brans-
combe, of the St. Kilda Jesters, is the man re-
sponsible, and he should do well out of the ven-
ture, for Sousa’s fame and trumpet blasts have
travelled before him. Manager Carlyle has been
dashing round the Commonwealth doing advance-
guard work.
At the King’s a subdued Eugenie Duggan is
enveloped in voluptuous gowns when she frees
herself from the sweater and blue serge skirt of
Glory Quayle’s native village. As Glory says :
“You don’t understand what it is to be a poor
clergyman’s daughter—to dress in the left-off
clothes of parishioners.” That speech is calculated
to win the sympathy of any woman. The
singing Glory wears a blue-satin dress,
which is the latest thing in sheaths.
The cut in the sheath'is directly for’ard instead of
to port, and gives glimpses of pink silk stockings
and shoes. There is another dress which seems to
typify a blameless music-hall life; it is all white lace,
and looks expensively plaintive. The lace is caught
in at the knees with a bowyang of white ribbon.
As the plot thickens, Glory’s dresses become more
and more bewildering. One satin thing, that
looks as if it had been washed on with a sponge,
begins in shell-pink and ends in mouse-color ; but
before one has time to match out the boundary
lines, John Storm has begun to convert the lady,
and the curtain drops with a discreet rustle.
Everv child loves to play at being grown-up, and
the small Old Woman (aged about 10) at the
King’s Theatre pantomime is the real thing. The
stage children thoroughly enjoy the work. In a
promenade of Scouts the small girls stick their
pinafores out in pride, with a mistaken idea of
where their chests are. The Old Woman will
have finished her Melbourne run just about the
time this Bulletin climbs on the bookstalls, but
she is to do a lot of visiting round yet.
Chief Boarding-Inspector O. T. L. O’Brien,
who died last Thursday, at the Custom House,
Williamstown, will be missed by every manner
who steers his ship into Port Phillip. “ Captain ”
O’Brien he was always called, though his only
claim to the title was the command of the small
launch in which he steamed out to board the in-
coming vessels with a weather eye for contraband.
He was a big, jolly man with a fascinating brogue,
and a close friend of Wilson, the Scotch Engineer-
in-Chief of Ports and Harbors, who has also de-
parted his life of harbor watchfulness. The ship-
ping people called “Captain” O’Brien “The
Bulldog,” for, despite the smoothness of his
tongue and his genial manner, little escaped him.
He was with the Customs for 40 years, and in his
younger days punted the inflated leather for
Carlton.
Champion tennis player Norman Brookes
bounded triumphantly through the tournament
got up by the Clive Millers at their Macedon
quarters. Tennis through, the court conqueror
departed last week for Colombo to meet fiancee
Mabel Emmerton and mamma, who have been
rifling soggy Paris for filmy lace treasures. The
wedding, which is to happen soon, will be cele-
brated here.
Miss Imeson, the leading woman in “ The Gay
Gordons,” played panto, boy to Ada Reeve’s
panto, girl in the Liverpool version of the “ Bean-
stalk.” There are strong indications of panto-
mime in the Clarke and Meynell companies ; and
if the indications make into a reef, Miss Imeson
will probably be a boy again. She says that
Ada Reeve will yet be seen in Australia once
more.
Marie Lohr is another Australian mummeress
who is reaping laurels and press notices for her-
self in Eogland. She has scored quickly, too, for
it isn’t so long ago since she set out to seek her
limelight in London. Last week she appeared as
leading lady in Pinero’s “Preserving the Pan-
mure,” and made a notable success of her part.
Her father came to Australia many years ago as
an actor, but after a while left the stage for the
other side of the footlights, and thereafter was
“ daddy” to everybody.
The Mayoress, Mrs. Davey, is going ahead
energetically with the bazaar. Collins-street and
contiguous medicoes are to help her with the
Melbourne stall, and this week there are to be
heart-to-heart committee talks at the Town Hall.
Mrs. English Prime Minister Asquith, giving
evidence in a slander case, managed to stick a hat-
pin into London’s Smart Set. Asked whether she
had ever heard of a woman being excluded from
society on account of her awful extravagance,
Mrs. A. replied : “ I should say it was a passport
into society.”
Paris, or as much of it as is not in constant
dread of being washed away, has got excited over
the book of a little dressmaker, Marguerite
Audoux, who has written the story of her life
under the title of “Marie Clare.” Marie’s spell-
ing is deadlv, but the touch of genius is there.
Someone has”said, “ That which is written with
the blood is life.” And perhaps poor little half-
starved Marie has put some heart’s blood between
her covers.
W. R. Guilfoyle, the fine landscape gardener
who once (so tradition says) punched an erring
Governor’s nose, has put some of the things he
knows about Australian plants into a book.
“The most varied, wonderful and beautiful in
the vegetable kingdom,” Guilfoyle says of Aus-
tralian flora ; and Dr. J. W. Barrett, the hon. sec.
of the committee which had “the privilege of being
participators in the publication of this book,
writes a very brief note to say that Guilfoyle
matches the flora. “Thirty-six years ago he
brought to Victoria the very genius of landscape
gardening, and a fulness of knowledge concern-
ing botany and the habits and adaptability of
plants and" trees that cannot be excelled.” Most
of the book, which Whitcombe and Tombs pub-
lish, is devoted to a list of the plants of our own
land, with their botanical names and their common
names and a description ; and there are beautiful
plates all through it.
Prom “Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
Premier Verran has decided to work instead of going
to the Coronation. Agent-General Kirkpatrick will,
accordingly, hand South Australia s felicitations to the
new monarch and his wife. Apparently the Mayoral Cohens
will be the only officials going from South Oss to the
Crowning. They leave on April 7, aboard the same boat
as Prime Minister Fisher and other portions of the
Federal Parliament. The Cohens will roam over the
Continent for a month before donning their Coronation
fripperies. . . , . ,
Apropos, the following appeared m the Adelaide
Register recently :
/"IORONATION, London, June, 1911.—HOUSE, 11
VJ Booms beautifully situated in London ; Fur-
nished; piano; every convenience. Particulars,
, Adelaide.
The piano is a big attraction. What is a Coronation
without a piano?
Adelaide’s new little theatre is almost ready for work,
and is having its face painted and its hair curled. It is
situated in the south end of King William-stre t, where
the Glenelg train runs slaughtering races with the Hyde
Park car ; and like every other theatre ever built, it is
going to be the most up-to-date on earth. ’Tis said that
the Branscombes have taken a lease of it from now till
Doomsday or thereabouts, with one of the Frederick
Bevan sons as presiding genius of the money-pots.
The Government is booming our hills and other beauty
spots in all sorts of ways. An Advisory Board is to be
appointed whose aim in life will be to go out into the
highways and hedges, snare fine view's and things, and
tie them to the Government's chariot wheels. Kiosks
and other wild fowl will be planted here and there,
notably in Waterfall Gully, and it has been suggested
that the Morialta Falls, now on private property, should
be opened to picnickers. .
Adelaide is talking in shocked tones of the awful
conduct of an opulent family which returned a while ago
from Britain. The daughters are alleged to have kept an
entire liner in cat-conversation for a month. A little
party of the ship’s officers accompanied the maidens to
the train at Largs Bay. Here, it is said, the navigators
were publicly rewarded with a kiss all round. Adelaide
has been groaning over the shameless deed for days and
davs. , ~
Did you know that South Australia has, among other
celebrated things, the biggest plough factory in this
hemisphere? It is at Ardrossan, a very new and treeless
looking little town on Yorke’s Peninsula—the locality that
is thickly populated with part-millionaire farmers, all own-
ing motors and mansions and little things like that.
Ardrossan also boasts cliffs that are strictly copyright-
on this side the globe, at any rate. They are of red clay,
and the lights on them as you sail into harbor are things
° f Mr. and Mrs. Whirlwind Bedford arrived here on Wed-
nesday, left on Thursday, came back on Monday for a
day, then streaked to the '.Vest, whence they will return
in a month ! Lightning isn’t in the race.
Yet another motor tragedy. Some Gawler folk were
returning from the races at Clare, when the car
collided with a bridge over the Light. Two of the occu-
pants were flung into the river 20ft. below, one being in-
jured, the other killed instantly. Latter was a daughter
of the iron-goods people, the Mays, and was on a visit to
relatives at Gawler.
Now that the carters’ strike is well and safely over, and
there’s no more fear of a bread famine, an ironic fate has
been casting bags of flour up on the beaches. They are
being- found at intervals about Port Victor and Encounte
Bay.
Mr. James Melrose and his girls came back from their
European jaunt last week.
An Adelaide boy was arrested the other day for annex-
ing two battery telephones, two coils of wire and four
electric-light shades from a firm of electrical engineers.
According to the evidence, he grabbed the articles in a
moment of Boy Scout fervor, with the object of installing
a telephone at the Aldgate Scout camp. Evidently he
reckoned all was fair in love and sham war. The Court
disagreed with him to the tune of £5 or three months.
The King can do no wrong, therefore his Majesty’s rep.
in Britain’s colonies can’t either. But an aide-de-camp
may make an “ error of judgment ” like any ordinary mor-
tal. Captain Wright, late A.D.C. to Admiral Bosanquet,
married a daughter of one of Adelaide’s gilded citizens,
and thereafter agreed to take two rooms in a Glenelg
seaside boarding-house for three months. Then a regi-
mental call summoned him to England, and the dis-
appointed landlady wailed “Ichabod!” Also, she
wailed for £25. The A.D.C. offered her two weeks’
boayd, one as an “ act of grace ” ; but she insisted on £25,
and Mr. Commissioner Russell said she should have it.
S. Aus. had three poets—Howell, of the Adelaide Gaol ;
Caldwell, long of the Assembly ; and Thomas Meddnl,
who described himself on the electoral roll as “shoe-
maker and poet.*’ Now Thomas is dead ; and no more
shall we hear the voice whose owner once reached this
height:—
Here I sit amidst the Muses,
While I mend your boots and shoeses.
It can at least be said of Meddal that he was gener-
ous. When he wrote an epic and published it
he invariably added the note: “Other papers please
copy.” But the other papers, jealous because they hadn’t
had first serve, very rarely accepted the invitation.
Still, he left £24 in a kerosene tin—which shows that
there is some money either in the Muses or the shoeses,
one can’t be sure which.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


I'M
' i
%
m
DEWARS
P
WHO
r
m
a
x
N
X
V
/
W's :
mxxy \//v
m/sK> <yy^
■yvV Vn/v
BYvYv v
■■Yvv /vV
n vvv
u c lyry *w’
v\A& :xyy
wK\*yjo
xxx\


A. SAUNDERS’ CHOICE GIFT SUGGESTION
The Daintiest and Prettiest ef Novelties in Jeweller*, and so Moderately Priced!
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s. Solid Silver MATCH-
BOX, Nicely Chased,
5/6
Smaller, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Heart BROOCH,
Diamond-set,
1 7"G
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar Heart BROOCH, Floral
Design,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EARRINGS,
Set Pearls and
Any Colour
Stones,
30/
Extra Quality,
£2, £2/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Diamond
and Scroll,
25/
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold L LtS, 12/G-.
loct Gold Links, 25/. Plain,
with initials engraved, same
price.
Heart
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Sot Double
Opal Heart and Dia-
monds,
£4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, Diamond
and Red or Blue
Stones,
£2.
■>
SOLID
GOLD
WATCH
BRACELET,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Best
Wishes” LINKS,
20/
15ct Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CROSS, set
Fine White Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 17/0’
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Set
Green Tourmalines or Rubies,
21/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised
. “Mizpah” RING, 17/6
15ct Gold 30/-
18ct. Gold ...... 40/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand Clasp
RING, 25/-.
15ct. Gold 40/-.
18ct. Gold 50/-.
h
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EARRINGS,
Set Pearls and
Any Colour
’ Stones,
30/
Extra Quality.
£2, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double
Buckle" RING, IT/0.
15ct. Gold 30/-
18ct. Gold 40/-
ĥ
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, Set Parisian
Diamonds,
17/0
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/, 12/G,
15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOCH, Set l’earls and
Coloured Stones,
10/0
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bar BROOCH, Any Name
Engraved,
0/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Dinna Forget” " UOCH, Bell
and Chain Attached, 12/6-
A. SAuNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bell and Chain
NAME BROOCH, 12/6-
loct Gold, 22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Red, Green,
or Torquoise, S/6
A. SAUMMUS.
Full Jewelled, Accurate, Reliable,
£4/10/-.
Higher Grade
15ct. Gold ..
£5, £5/10/-
... £7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT PIN,
Coloured
Enamel and
Silver,
A. SALiNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT,
Set Pearls and Tur-
quoise,
32/6.
-/OX/93
arcos
•9
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Hunting Keyless Elgin
Lever WATCH, Chronometer Balance; 1 ull
Jewelled, Dust and Water Proof Cases,
£6/10/-
With Extra . .welled, ligh-grade Move-
ment, £7/10/. Free Repair for 4 and 5
Years.
GOLD,
£7/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Band BRACELET,
Embossed, Floral Design,
Safety Chain, 30/-
Richly
with
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold PENDANT,
Set Pearls and Tur-
quoise,
37/6.
loct Gold £3/10/.
ħ
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold,
SCARF-PIN,
Set Pearls
and Red
or Blue
Stone,
20/-
*nt 4
’LORII WATCH t
BETWEEN ■ ME I
BETWEEN ■ ME I
U THEE WHEN e
mzm
m
A. SAUNDEKq.
Oct Gold 2 Ivy-Leaf Mizpah BROOCH,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bird and Fancy Bar BROOCH,
Set Cut Stone,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and “Forget-
Me-Not” HEART BROOCH, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Set Diamond
and 4 Rubies,
25/-
h
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bar Buckle and Scroll BROOCH,
2<V
f.
t/r.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Half-chased, Basket Pattern BRACEDET,
strong Safety Chain attached, £3/15/-
51
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2/15/.'
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Good Wishes” BROOCH,
12 IG
15ct Gold, 25/.
SOLID
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold
Open-faced Keyless
WATCH, Fancy Dial,
Perfectly Timed and
Adjusted,
£2
Higher Grade, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
GOLD,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 5 Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£3/10/.
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2''.lo'/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Seal
TENDANT, Amethyst
or Topaz, 13/G-
SEND FOR OUR
FREE CATALOGUE-
. FS FULL OF
OTHER BEAUTI-
FUL IDEAS.
3)
1
m
m
ABSENTS
2)
S'anothe
SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Mizpah”
CHARM, Set Red or
Blue Stones,
12/«.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold NECKLETS,
voat and r ’-ong, Full
Length, 112/6-
Heavier 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/. 15ct Gold, 20/,
25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
SEND FOR OUR
FREE CATALOG UE-
IT’S FULL OF
»_THER BEAUTI-
FUL IDEAS.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL,
12/6, 15/, 20/. _
15ct Gold 35/, Silver 3 Jb
a
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds,
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
OINNAig
SMyFoP
G&
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold “Dinna Forget’
CHARM,
12/0
Smaller, 10/.
LATEST
Ditto,
STYLE SILK RIBBON GUARD andi Shield
Double, to go Right Across Vest, 37/0- With bhieia or tsuuue
I ■
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond and
or Blue Stones,
20/
SOLID
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless WATCH, Full-
Jewelled, Hand-Finished,
£3
Extra Jewelled Movement,
£3/10/. Guaranteed. Free
Repairs for 3 years.
GOLD.
£3/10/-
jeweller.
mt&wcioc*
k MAKER /
ĥ
ħ
h
'SILVERSMITH
t ONSULT//V£
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
"" 011 in.~n.il. Railway Station) SYDNEY, N.S.W.


AUSTRAL
STANDARD
DRY PLATES
AUSTRAL Standard Dry Plates are
, now obtainable of all dealers threugh-
out the Commonwealth, These
plates have received the unqualified en-
dorsement of the most prominent pro-
fessional photographers in all the States,
They are available in three grades—
Ordinary, Extra Rapid and Special Sensitive
offering a range wide enough for all
classes of work.
Austral Standard Plates are of superb
quality, possessing every desired attribute
to ensure good negatives*
Free samples are available at all dealers.
Ask for a packet and test the plates for
yourself.
£250 PRIZE COMPETITION.
See details of the £250 Prize Competition in
the “ Australasian Photo. Review” for January,
KODAK
the Camera
that is always
at your service
THE Kodak is the Camera you know best by repu-
tation. It is the Camera your friends use—the
Camera that is used by those “who know” all
over the world—the Camera that leads all others for per-
fection of construction, ease and certainty in manipula-
tion, and that is always ready and reliable—always at
your service.
Kodak Photography is inexpensive, and can be
undertaken at any time, anywhere. You can develop
your films on the verandah, in the bathroom, wherever
you choose—in daylight. And every
other operation can be carried out in
daylight.
Kodaks range in price from 26/«,
Brownie Kodaks from 5/”- All Kodak
supplies are sold at English List Prices.
Call or write for a Free Copy of the
Kodak Catalogue, which gives full par-
ticulars and prices of Kodaks and all
photographic accessories.
r J
ffll
wmm
1
,
, Hi
No. 1 Folding Pocket
Kodak 42 -
The smallest and simplest of all
the Pocket Kodaks. Pulling
dovvn the bed automatically
springs the front into position.
No focussing necessary; just
locate the image in the finder,
and press the lever. Equipped
with first quality Meniscus
Achromatic Lens, fitted to
Pocket Automatic Shutter,
adjusted for both snapshot and
time exposures. Brilliant Re-
versible Finder. Pictures,
2|in. x 3|in. Price £2/2/-
No. 3 Folding Pocket
Kodak £3126.
The No. 3 Folding Pocket
Kodak combines compactness
with convenience, just as all
Kodaks do. It takes pictures
x 4Jin., and is fitted with
R.K. Lens, the F.P.K. Auto-
matic Shutter, Automatic
Focussing Lock and two Tripod
Sockets. Body is constructed
of aluminium, covered with fine-
quality black seal grain leather,
and the weight is only 230 z.
Price, <£3/12/6.
No. 3a Folding Pocket
Kodak £4/10 -
Hie No. 3a Folding Pocket
Kodak is the most popular of all
cameras; takes the full-size post-
card picture, 3|in. x s£in. Pro-
vided with every feature for the
most serious work, yet so simple
as to he effectively handled by a
novice. Equipment includes
double Rapid Rectilinear Lens,
Kodak Automatic Shutter,
Automatic Focussing Lock,
Brilliant Reversible Finder,’
and Tripod Sockets. Price,
.£4/10/-
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop- Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven
“The Block,’’ 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
WINCHESTER
THE RED
ĥ
BRAND OF
TRADE MARK
REO. IN U. 8. PAT. OFF.
AND THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
Rifles, Shot Cults and Ammunition
MADE HERE
mm
nfit* l ? 19 *** .L'.man
Gun and cartridge Factories of
the Winchester Repeating Arms Co.
T||T is a well established fact that goods can be produced better and
jU; economically in a factory modern in equipment and
facilities. The plant of the Winchester Repeating Arms Co.
is such a one. It is the biggest in the world devoted to manufacturing
guns and ammunition, and its mammoth and up-to-the-minute equip-
ment, operated by experts of years of experience, produces the highest
S? SS^r- g °° ds at the lowest Possible price consistent with the quality
Ihe Winchester plant is big, but it is still growing. Growth means
improvement in manufacturing processes, and better goods if it is
possible to make them so. Although Winchester goods are made in
rnll K U A and mcdern manner they cost no more than inferior
makes, but they are better by far—always ask for the Red W Brand.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
«*u fc tfeCCCCtI
Li:
nnirramiMiMmim
&
fcfeOUCCC
'SJ.
m
F
m
dfr»
~*2Lr
1
-X
J
5055
\w
SMGENI3
CAKES •• PASTRY-*
BISCUITS-ETC-
TT is an easy mat-
* ter to please
family or guests if
you serve Sargents’ Cakes or
Pastry. They are light, dainty
and delicious.
SARGENTS’ MEAT PIES and
FRUIT PIES.
The meat pies are most excellent.
Their tastiness has won for them
a wide reputation. The Fruit Pies are equally good, being made
from the season’s choicest fruits.
You should try SARGENTS’ BAKED GOODS.
SARGENTS’ Em
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt Street
(’PI one - Office—3ss9 p
Cafe, 1876; Catering-, t |2so).
MELBOURNE : 28-32 Elizabeth Street


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3 s. 6d., 7 s.j ios. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
bilious attacks.
Suffered for Years. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills Restored Her to Health.
Mrs. Martha Simmons, 8 Cove Street, Balmain,
tells how she was ailing for years, subject to bilious
attacks, periodical headaches, and constipation
from her school days to womanhood. vr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills were,” she states the
salvation of her life.” Read what she says
“ In my teens I suffered very badly from bilious
attacks. My blood was very poor, my whole sys-
tem became completely run down, and on many
4S?
Mrs. Martha Simmons.
(From a photo.)
occasions I was so weak
that I had to be supported
home by my schoolmates.
As I grew older I did not
seem to overcome my weak-
ness, and I was in this
state of health for a long
time. Periodical head-
aches, bilious attacks, and
constipation were my con-
stant ailments. I gave
many medicines a fair trial,
but I did not receive any
permanent relief. Thesal-
vation of my life was Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills;
it was wonderful how they
relieved me of bilious
attacks. They put life into
my body, regulated my
system, and I gradually
grew stronger, until I became a perfectly healthy
woman. I still use Dr. Morse’s Indian Boot
Pills occasionally, and heartily recommend them
to everybody. You may use this testimonial jus
as you like for publication.’ *
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES * 00., PEKTH, KALCOOKLIE and COOLCABDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Although backers at the A.J.C. Anniversary
Meeting at Randwick on Saturday managed to pick three
favorites that were capable of winning, Patrick Bhag was
not by any' means broke when the da t v was over. The
first race, the Trial Stakes, was won by rank outsider
Posaune, while the favorite, Idyia, could get no closer up
than third. The first Nursery Handicap turned out a
regular skinner, Miribexia carrying such a swag of
public money that she failed utterly under the weight,
with the result that the undreamed-of Respect, a brute
that went out at 10’s against, romped in a head to the
good. Miribexia was not placed. There were only three
starters in the Centenary Stakes, and a large section of
the public fastened on Son of the Marsh, in spite of his
141 b. penalty ; and Patrick Bhag demanded odds on. Dis-
gust at the favorite’s price, or a try for a second shot,
or the sudden working of a big commission, or
something resulted in a lot of money being whacked on
Cady RUenalf; and, before Patrick had time to reduce
his prices, a pot was laid on the mare at 2 to 1 against.
The Challenge Stakes saw 18 face the starter, and, when
the confusion quietened down, it was generally under-
stood that Poi Dance was favorite at 3 to 1
against. Poi Dance won easily—by a length.
But the price indicates that the noble steed
was more of a bookmakers’ favorite than that of
the punters. Anyhow, the shock caused the man with
the Bag to go slow, and when the punters came along
and asked what price Nangar for the January Handicap,
sto 4 against was the best offering. Evidently the Bag
knew something, for stacks of money was laid on Eeuron
and Crown Derby at 4’s and s’s. Which was phenomenal,
for usually the first sign of a rush is the beginning of a
sudden tightening in price. This cheerful reckless,
ness on the part of the Bag supplies food
for very solemn thought. Nangar won, and Crown
Derby was a length away second, with Leuron right out
of it. No less than 16 went out for the Welter Handicap,
and the publie fastened its faith on three—Buddhist,
Torquay and Grist, Buddhist started at 2’s, Torquay at
4’s, and Grist at B’s. Buddhist won by half a length, and
ended what the poor, clean-picked punters regarded as
their best day for the Lord knows how long. And, such
as it was, it was.
* * * *
In Westralia bookmakers’ voices yell in
opposition to the totalisator, and in the tussle the
booky thrives very well. An analysis of the betting
during the final two days of the W. A.T.C. meeting yields
the hard fact that only in one race in 12 did the books’
odds exceed those passed out through the machine ; in
three other races the odds were equal; while in t’other
eight the machine romped in. ft is these little things
which should help the betting talent to barrack for the
machine.
* * * *
Tbe WeStralian Turf Club’s recent meeting
passed £71,933 through the totalisator, which knocked
into a cocked hat the previous record of £69,774 in 1906-7.
The enormous rise is better illustrated when placed along-
side last year’s meagre effort of £57,532. The club
gathered a profit of £10,009 on the meeting; and the
totalisator tax yielded £lB3O to the Government, What
with the Drink Bill going aloft and the Tote receipts fly-
ing higher than the mountains, there is little left for the
sorrowful to be joyful about.
* * * *
Entries for the Newmarket Handicap promise
a good go for the V.R.O. sprint. Everything with pre-
tensions to “fly” has been nominated, and the handi-
eapper will be puzzled to make reasonable distinction
between the lower-grade cracks and the best of the
middlings unless he puts a ciushing weight on the top-
notcher. The Australian Cup entry is very little above
the average ; but the proved stayers are all there,'and
the names of some of the speediest hurdle racers appear
in the list.
* * * *
At Innainincka (S.A.) races, during the holi-
days, Rowland rode six winners and one second in seven
events. Has anyone ever won the whole card ?
* * * *
N.S.W. had an easy time at the Brisbane sec-
tion of the Australian Swimming Championships on
Saturday, winning both the 220 Yards and One Mile
Championships. The 220yds. was a gift to Hardwick, of
the Ma State, who overtook the pace-setters, and then
almost dog-paddled in with nine yards to spare in 2min.
38 3-ssec. Which is dead slow. Daniels did it in 2min.
25 2-ssec., and Kieran and Beaurepaire both have 2tnin.
28 2-ssee. to their credit. But, having no one about to
press him, presumably Hardwick was content to win his
race without trying to chip pieces off anything.
The Mile saw a better struggle, although only
three started. Hardwick set the tune, and Longworth
danced accordingly. Springfield, of’Queensland, found
the pace too merry altogether, and drifted astern. At
the 660 yards Hardwick suddenly realised that he was
doing the bullocking, and the swimming machine along-
side him was just keeping level with a view to coming
out at the psychological moment/ So he slowed dow'n,
and Longworth, recognising that his rival had done a
fair thing, went to the front, and commenced to tear
tbe water’ to pieces. So fast did he kick, that
at three-fourths of the distance he was 20 yards
ahead. Then Hardwick, realising that time was
running out, made.the sprint of his life. It was a
noble sprint, and gallantly maintained. But the swim-
ming machine from Rose Bay was alert and strong as
ever ; and when Hardwick came gliding up, he suddenly
ripped a fresh path through the water, kicked himself
clear, and won by 10 yards. Hardwick had never a hope
—Longworth practically played with him. Springfield,
pumped dry, was all 60yds. away. Again the time (25min.
37 4-ssec.) was dead slow compared with what the giants
have done. Kieran’s time for the distance was 23tnin.
16 4-ssec., and dates buck to March 4,1905, at Drummoyne
(Sydney) baths. * * *
Although it has all the natural advantages
which go to make it a great nursery of swimmers in its
water-locked capital, where every part of tbe city is in
reach of salt water and swimming is taught in the
schools, this is the first year N.S.W. has managed to
annex the Kieran Shield. Springfield, whose boiler burst
in the 220yds. at Brisbane on Saturday last, was the first
winner, and he secured it for Bananaland the first year—
that is, in 1907, when the championships were held in
Maoriland. In 1908 Perth was the deciding point, and
Bogey grabbed it for Victoria. In 1909, in Victoria,
Bogey again defeated all comers. In 1910, Bogey proved
more invincible than ever ; but this year he met his
at the hands of Longworth, :ind he and Hard-
S 'secured“he coveted shield, called after the Ma
State’s greatest swimmer, for the State of the man it was
called after. Here’s to ’em !
* * *
“B Butt” says terrible things: “Frank Beau-
renaire has decided to quit the swimming bath for a year
—if not for good. The defeat in the championships at
Sydney shook him up badly ; and the hurricane eflorts
of Longworth and Hardwick were too much for the Vic-
torian. Of course, the yarn comes out that Bogey was
‘ stale ’ ; but his own statement when he reached Sydney
that he was fit to spread-eagle the opposition knocks that
theory endways. Fact is, the new swimmers on deck
in N.S.W. have pushed Cecil Heal.v and Frank Beaurepaire
out —and they ought to admit it.”
* * * *
The great and amazing scrap between Smith
and Clabby at Sydney Stadium last week was an elegant
and picturesque affair. Ten rounds of it were fought
throm’ h pelting rain, with the thunder of cheering thou-
sands drowning the roar of the storm. Smith stood up
in the olden style, while Clabby affected the American
crouch. The flaring Lux lights that illuminate the
Stadium were repeatedly thrown into shadow by the
lightning flashes, but no one cared what hap-
pened so long as the fight was not postponed.
Apparently a stone to the good, Smith attacked, falling
upon Clabby’s kidneys in a manner that the young
American disliked very much. A red splurge began to
show, and Clabby evinced signs of pain. But he fought
all he knew, and'tried his Yankee wrestling tactics only
to get the worst of it. The Red Indian used to make a
point of honor of laughing loudly and horribly when
his opponent split his skull, and the modern Yankee
bruiser smiles while bis enemy knocks hunks off hun.
Clabby’s smile became a ghastly thing ; but the owner
stuck to it gamely, and kept it on his face all the
time. His style was peculiar. He seemed to turn
away from Smith, and then spring in.sideways in an
endeavor to catch the Australian with a whirly-whirlv.
But he was met with str light lefts and rights,
which stopped his whirly-whirly half-way. The
third was a great round. Twice Clabby caught
Smith on the jaw and looked like finishing him. But
Smith kept cool, and in a clinch he smote Cl ibb.v on the
chin. Clabby swayed, but, with splendid grit, managed
to elude and reach the haven of “ time.” Clabbv s
generalship was superb. And it had need to be. I or he
was literallv punched all round the ring ; and yet in the
midst of it all, with his face set in that horrible,
ghastly smile, he kept a cool head and managed to
avoid the knock-out that seemed imminent all through
his long and painful ordeal. Had Smith known more, he
could have finished Clabby almost any time after the
seventh. But that was just the trouble. He is still
green, and lacks ring confidence. But it will come with
more experience in the actual fighting sphere ; and then
there are possibilities about Smith stepping into the front
rank.
A blinding flash, followed almost immediately
by a crash of echoing thunder, brought the Stadium
audience to its feet with a bound and a curse. And
before it knew what had happened the fountains of Heaven
burst. It was not rain, but a literal sheet of water that
struck the people and broke like a wave against the iron
walls of the Stadium. Many thought it was a cloud
burst. And then there came a mighty wind, and
the most awful rattling, crashing riot of sound
tore the atmosphere to pieces. It was the rattle of the
wind-driven rain against the iron walls. But in the ring
they never let up a moment. Round and round, through
the driving rain, the suffocating wind, they swirled.
Clabby backing away. Smith in wild pursuit, smashing
and driving. Clabby fought like a Paladin; but the
Sledgehammer beat him back, and when he stood up,
beat down his guard and made Clabby fain to
take shelter once more in flight. Details were lost
in that amazing downpour ; arid it was hard to see, for
the eyes were dazed by the lightning. But when the
wind swept the rain aside. Smith was seen getting all
over Clabby, whose right eye was bleeding while his left
was closing. Then, right at the finish, Clabby pulled
himself together and went in for a knock-out. The
way he bored in deserved better luck. And he
got a fearful pasting while doing it. He landed
some vicious blows too, but his strength had been
battered out of him, and only once did he look as though
he might pull off his knock-out. That was when he got
a wild left swing right into Smith’s stomach. Smith
gasped, but before Clabby could follow up, he smothered
the attack under a shower of blows. Then through the
rain and lightning they were seen standing toe 10 toe,
shooting wildly. Then Clabby reeled, and the gong went,
and “Snowy” Baker pronounced Smith winner on points.
It was a great fight, and Clabby showed to better ad-
vantage than at any other appearance in Sydney.
The scrap between J. Thompson, of Yankee-
land, and Timothy Land, of Bondi (N.S.W.), was far from
edifying. Thompson is not a boxer. It is doubtful if he
is a fighter. He is a rough-and-tumbler, about whom
there is no chivalry or anything decadent of that sort.
As he had a man with a withered leg in front, of him, he
bored in and made a Yankee wrestling match of it. The
only thing that seemed to be barred was biting ; and
after two rounds the police intimated that there had
been more than enough of it, and if that fight was to
continue it was to be a clean-break affair. The end came
suddenly, in the third round, when, in breaking from a
clinch, Thompson half swung and half hooked a heavy one
right on to Land’s chin, and the man from Bondi fell
with a crash. : It was a woodener, and Land didn’t rer
cover till long after the bulk of the crowd was making for
home. All the same, it was a chance swipe. So the
fight, although it added materially to Thompson’s bank
account, brought him nothing in the way of kudos ; and
about the most astounded party in the crowd was the
winner himself. He was on top, but like the fly in the
amber, he wondered and wondered how he got there.
* ■* * *
“Sardonyx”: Heard that Dave Smith was a
straight-hitting, stand-up stousher of the style now
mostly discarded in favor of the crouchy, clutchy busi-
ness that is more suggestive of a dog-worry than a man-
fight; so I went to see him exchange taps with Clabby.
I came awav very wet, but also very pleased to know that
the crouch' artist has still to reckon with the “ straight
left ” that has pulled so many old-time knuckle fights out
of the fire. Smith shaped up exactly like Tom Sayers
used to: head and body erect, left arm well extended,
guard easy and handy. ' Clabby had an ugly slouch, and
looked as if he were only remotely interested in the pro-
ceedings ; but Smith promptly called his attention to
business with a lovely long left to the chin, followed
instantly by a hard right to the body. And that was
practically the history of the whole fight.
* * * *
The cable report of Bill Lang’s meeting with
Curran in London, when he lost the fight by hitting the
other bloke while he was “down,” savs: “He swiftly
hustled Curran to the ropes and hit at him three times.”
The second whack caused the recipient to slip on his
knee, whereupon Lang punched him again and was dis-
qualified. Bill’s friends seem to think that this shows he
has outlived his nervousness; but the foul blow looked very
like the impulsive clout of a man who didn’t really know
where he were.
* * * *
“Hermes”: This woman-at-the-fight business
is getting humorous. For what obsessed both ladies was
not the spirit of the fight, or the fearfulness of it, but
the amazing fact of their own presence at it. That im-
pression was so absolutely dominant that there was no
room left for any other ; and neither lady seems to have
come away with any very clear impression about what hap-
pened—except that she got there. And it was not such an
unusual event, anyhow. Writer has attended quite a num-
ber of fights at which there were people strongly suspected
of being “ladies.” Some were there just to see the
smashing, some because a lover or a husband was in the
ring, some from a sheer spirit of adventure, and most of
them because they liked being among men. Woman’s
conduct at a fight is interesting, also anfusing. More
often than not she is an unmitigated savage, who is only
thoroughly satisfied when there has been a big display
of “ claret.” One who used to follow almost
every fight here some years ago used to howl
requests to the gentleman on whose side she east
her prayers to “wade in and kill the beast.”
Meanino- thereby the other fellow. Then, when the
other fellow started to do the killing, she °
an admirer of his doings, and would. yell enthusiastical j
to him to do the killing. This swaynig to and fro wouW
continue till blood appeared; and a nice ruby
stream began to splash round she would lie back in her
chair—she always had half-a-sovereign s worth—and puir
delightedly. After that she would yell no more , just
lean”back hke a great sleek cat, with eyes half closed,
purring and smiling. I used to long to break her neck.
' Still, they are not all bloodthirsty. One night
I found myself alongside a nice, bright-twed- J°«tlb
who wore a long grey overcoat although it was
swelteringly hot. The way he kept his cap jammed
hard down, and his timid manner in general, convinced
me that “ he ” was a girl in disguise. Around her every-
body was smoking like a young volcano and the clouds
drifted heavily, lazily. Her boy was fighting in the: pre-
liminary, and when he stepped into the ring, her faces lit
ud cloriously. He looked so fair and warlike, it did not
se P em possible that he could be walloped. And then
his opponent entered-a gnsly-looking Drate, with
only one bare spot in his anatomy, and that, his face. AH
the rest was covered with a thick coat of shaggy hair
When they faced each other the girl’s swee t heartlooked
an Apollo. Also, he fought like one. Light on his feet
as a dancer, he stood in and flecked his lists light, y .cross
his hairy opponent’s face, leaving a matk behind him
every time. The girl clung to the sides of the seat, and
watched him with a half smile. To her it appeared glori-
ous superb ; but, oh, so hideously dangerous ! Those
wicked-looking swipes ; those great fladJikebairy arms
each movement was to her a fresh mghtmaie. The in-
tervals were periods of fearful suspense to her, worse
than the actual rounds. Apollo continued to dance and
glide and duck till, in the third round, Lissotnches
o-ot him in the corner and ladled out stoush in a royal
manner. Apollo drove back straight, lance-like lefts
and bore through to open space and safetj. ine
girl cheered feebly. Then Apollo, finding he was as
good as the other at close quarters, stood in to
finish it, and received a fearful bash under the
nose which lifted him off his feet and slung him into
his corner, a bleeding wreck. He struggled up inside
time and smote Lissotriches in the e y®-
run. Another wattlesnoozer convinced him the time nau
come to get out, and he scrambled hastily through the
ropes. I turned to see how the girl was taking it. bhe
had fainted; and I remembered hearing vaguely, when
Apollo went down long before, a muffled shriek about
somebody being killed. We carried her out, feeling sorry
that Apollo hadn’t made a better showing for her sake ;
for she seemed a nice girl.
* * * *
The recent rush of motor-bikers over the waste
places between Melbourne and Sydney has fired the
ambitions of sundry motor-bike men to hold a record of
their own. There is a car record—that of G. G. White, of
Adelaide, who did the distance in 19hr. 47min.; and there
is Pearson's bike record of 49 hours. But there is no motor-
bike record. So O. O. Riddell, of Melbourne, announces
that the long-felt want will be supplied at an early date.
He will ride a 5-h.p. twin-cylinder Dunlop-shod Peugeot,
fitted with two-speed e:ear, and will try to make
(322 miles) the first day. After spending the mpht at
Gundagai, he will, he thinks, ride to Sydney next day.
Now, this is where the trouble is going to begin. There
ought to be some sort of judge or controlling body to say
how long a man may break his journey, always giving
the rider, of coarse, the option of riding 1 right through it
he is ass enough to do it. But somehow the writer thinks
that the man who will ride that 575 miles without a rest
on a motor-bike has yet to be found. And when he has
been found, he will probably have to be buried.
* * * ”
This new automatic tyre pump just let loose on
the world by the English Dunlop 00. is going to be a
great boon and a huge blessing. Fitted with that, a
puncture will not necessarily mean a sudden stop. An or-
dinary puncture will not let the air out faster than the
automatic pump will force it in ; and, being automatic, it
will get to work immediately the pressure falls below the
fixed point. A delicate adjustment enables the bikist or
motorist to set his own fixed point just at whatever pres-
sure he likes best, and he can bowl along merrily with
the satisfactory confidence that the tyre will be at top
pressure all the time. And, best of all, it will stay there
till a sudden gash, or a crevasse, or something of that
sort lets the whole innards (which is wind) out with one
sudden buzz, wheeze or puff.
* *■ * *
Somebody with a taste for statistics has been mak-
ing up the value of the automobile to Britain. Hefinds that
cars, bikes, and heavy motor waggons bound up to the enor-
mous value of £42,580,750, or nearly £1 per head of popu-
lation. Last year saw an increase of 36,925 motor vehicles
in Britain alone. And the same enormous expansion is
going on in Australia. The sooner the Australian
Government gets on to some scheme for utilising this
huge development in the defence of the continent, the
better for Australia and the Empire.
* * * *
Some Melbourne batsmen woke up on Satur-
day and sent theball on extensive journeys. Armstrong,
of Melbourne, made 201 against North Melbourne s flur-
ried mi <r ht; Oheswass, of Northcote, totalled 119 against
'Varsity ; Lemme, of St. Hilda, faced 'Roy’s artillery and
compiled a very good 102; and Sewart, of Carlton, was
101 not out when East Melbourne had finished its day s
attack. Also P’ran belligerents, Rogers and Jones, kept
South Melbourne’s field in constant motion. The former
rattled up 129 not out, and the latter contribed 91. Only
one bowler demanded much attention. Macrow, of
Richmond, got seven Essendon wickets for 25, and helped
to dismiss the whole team for 63. The which forces the
suspicion that Essendon is a perished batting combina-
tion. Most of its season’s performances might well have
been made in crape before a congregation of mourners.
* * * ■ *
A Victorian Chemists’ XI came to Sydney last
week to play the Ma State poison-mixers. It met a
veritable Caesar Borgia in the person of L. W. Pye, who
gathered eight wickets for 18 runs. The result of this
sudden dose was a victory for the Ma Staters by an
innings and 29 runs. Wanted badly in Victoria just now,
an antidote for Pye.
* * * *
Adelaide didn’t get straw in its hair over the
third Test match, and throw silver into the coffers as
entrance money. The “ gate ” yielded £1196 in six days,
of which about £450 drops into the wandering teams
purse. Thus far over £3500 has been apportioned to the
Springboks during the tour ; and, with the Tests at Mel-
bourne and Sydney yet to come, fine weather is only
necessary to lift the cheque up to £7OOO, and push the
tour out of the debt of the guarantors.
* * * *
“ B.” : Cricket barrackers will be buying up
heaw boots to kick somebody if Australia gets walloped
by Sundries in the next Test match. In three Tests
S’Africa has been presented with 41 no-balls and lb
wides !—which is just cause for the use of the hob-nailed
boot. Of these 53 runs presented to the Springboks,
Cotter was responsible for 27 and Kelleway for 22 (and
Kelleway thus puts in an extra claim for the job of
champion all-round cricketer of Australia). As a con -
trast, the Springboks gave away only three no-balls, lhe
Australian selection committee has the glorious option
of smothering players who persist in their efforts to pre-
sent “ the ashes ” to the other side ; and the committee
should exercise it.
* * * *
The Springboks crossed the water to Tasmania
last week and had a fairly joyous time, winning the first
match by 209 runs, and being baulked of the second by
effluxion of time only. The comforting circumstance for
Tassy was the mighty smiting of Smith, who carried his
bat for 124 in Tassy’s second innings of 204. Smith’s
performance was as refreshing as a great beer in a Pro-
hibited land.
* * * *
Clem Hill may have been technically right in
his refusal to allow the Springboks to substitute a man
for Hathorn, who was in bad health. But whether tech-
nically right or wrong, the refusal is a disgrace. With
two tests in hand Australia could afford to be generous,
and Hill’s refusal was a crowning blunder. We expect to
play an African XI, not an African X. If we can t beat
an African XI of sound, well men, then, in the name of
Sport, let’s take our doing like Australians. Better to
lose a match fairly than win it by showing points. We’ll
be as bad as Yankee “ sports” soon.
* * * *
S. A., which is keen about the Sheffield Shield,
having won it last season for the first time since 1894, is
offering up prayers for the success of Vic. over N.S.W. in
the coming match. The position is this: N.S.W. said
from the start that it would be too tired, or busy, or
something, to visit Adelaide this season ; so S.A. has
finished its programme, with two games won and one
lost. The best Vic. can do, by winning this match, is
two to two, leaving N.S.W. one to two, and S.A. top.
But if Ma wins she will be two to one also, and may
perhaps get the Shield on averages, though fairness
seems to require that if she wants it she should go to
Adelaide and play the game she cancelled.
* * * *
Aubrey Faulkner, whose consistency in flatting
is the feature of the tour of the Africans, is 28, which is
eight less than the score of Schwarz, the googlie bowler
and patriarch of the show. Llewellyn (who is not a
Welshman) is 34, and Vogler and Jimmie Sinclair are also
twice 17. Lady-like Nourse is 33, and skipper Sherwell
has just entered the 30’s. The babies are Zulch 24 and
Pegler 23. The Africans average 30 and the Kangaroosters
28 ; so if youth will be served, the Africans won t take the
ashes away.
* * *
Delightful illustration of the fact that, until
the transcontinental line is built, the North won t know
much of what the South is doing, and the South will con-
tinue to have just as hazy ideas about the*North :
BOWLING CARNIVAL.
Dec. 27.
Every State in the Commonwealth is to be repre-
sented in Adelaide at the forthcoming carnival inau-
gurated in honor of Bowling, the Laborite.
The N. T. Times, which printed that gem, printed also a
par. stating that “Mr. Googly’s bowling in the fust
match between South Africa and South Australia caused
great amusement to the onlookers.” #
The possibility of a settlement of the wrestling
wrangle looks very bright. Dave Smith, champion of
Tasmania —taking the lion by the hair on his lip
is shifting to Victoria to scramble with an aspirant
named Franiseh ; and the winner will tackle Clar-
ence Weber for the Australian championship. Mean-
while, Weber amuses himself lifting bar bells and
all kinds of heavy things, and is alleged to have made a
record recently by elevating 219J11). in a one-handed lift..
As Dave Smith is a 6ft. ljin. athlete, with a poundage of
14st. 61b., Weber will have plenty of beef to push about
if these Australians clash.
* * *
The Great Suppress again. On Tuesday last
S. M. Herald, in reporting the annual meeting of the
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association, remarked: Die
annual report and balance-sheet were adopted, and
though it appeared that there was a slight loss on the
year’s transactions, the position of the Association gene-
rally was shown to be satisfactory.” Now, that is just
what was not shown. The Association is face to face with
a crisis. Here is the game extending by leaps and bounds,
and the central body going to the dogs. There is a debit
balance of £175. In 1909 there was a credit balance of
£100; but, after a year of big fixtures, phenomenal
attendances and all the signs of vigorous expansion, the
Association found itself in 1910 £139 in debt, haviiigmade
a loss of £239 during the year. Now in 1,911 it is deeper
in the financial bog by £36. Yet there is plenty of good
financial ability running loose among the tennis players.
Surely the Association can get enough of the real tnin,,
to take what should be a most flourishing institution in
hand, and make it blossom like the green bay tree, or the
beer plant in midsummer.
* * *
Two cheerful lunatics, Tom Burrows and Harry
Lawson—not the bard—stood on their feet at Broken
Hill (N.S.W.) recently for 76 hours and twirled clubs.
The game was to be decided on points ; and of a possible
1200 each, Burrows made 1044 and Lawson 992. After
another wooden display at Adelaide, Burrows will take
himself and his infectious clubs to England. Australia
will not weep.
* * * *
Sydney Amateur Sailing Club grows ambitious,
and on Saturday will blow off an ocean ra.ce open to all
boats in the club. The club secretary notifies the condi-
tions : Registered sails, spinnaker or balloon foresail not
to be set above masthead. Spinnaker boom not toexceed
length of base of fore triangle. Handicaps at start.
Limit boat to leave one minute after hoisting of starting
color : others to follow as handicapped. The limit boat
must start at 2 p.m. All competing boats must carry
distinguishing colors in accordance with Racing Kegu-
lations 8 and 9. The course will be laid round
a mark three miles outside the Heads, and the
entries will close at 4 p.m. to-day, Thursday, with W. L
Hunt, c/o Walter Reeks, 9 Pitt-street. An unusual
feature is that the handicaps will not be handed out
before the race, but will be posted to members, and will
be given for “light” and “ moderate ” weather. If the
former be adopted, a white flag will be flown below the
Ensign, while a red flag in the same position will signify
that “ moderate” handicaps will be the order of the day.
This should be a vastly interesting fixture, and should
prove a first-class test of skill and seamanship. (
* * * *
The “Parramatta Hundred 5 is finally fixed for
March 18 and 25, on the Parramatta River. Thus Jar,
over 30 entries are promised ; and the swarm of paddlers
who are daily on the river points to a greater boom in
sculling than ever. The challenges which are floating
about among the scullers less mighty than Arnst and
Pearce are also so noisy that the anglers are complaining
that all the flathead fish have left the stream, and only
the flathead scullers remain.
* * * *
Sad to say, Dick Arnst, hitherto considered a
good sport, has turned pigeon-murderer.


OLD ORKNEY
WHISKY
REAL
UlOJUfM.fi
~m,
X
Vr a>
00
°**> ORtS^ S
n Commhxs Diskllcw L t ?
PROpr lETOrs of
OTROMriESS DISTIIURY. .
Orkney. SCOTLAND-
A PAREOLD SCOTCH VM
The unvarying
excellence of Old
Orkney Whisky
is due to the fact -
of its being made under absolutely
hygienic conditions in the old-time
way and thoroughly matured.
McConnell’s Distillery Ltd.,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents :
SYDNEY—Tooheys Ltd.
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE —Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine.
LAUNCESTON—John McKenzie & Co.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
If you appreciate quality footwear we would be pleased to
post you a copy of our New Shoe Catalogue which shows
all the latest styles in Gent.’s High-Grade Footwear.
It will prove of great assistance to you in ordering your
shoes by mail.
Each and every illustration is a true representation of the
actual shoe, and in all it is positively the best Shoe
Catalogue yet published.
Suppose you send for a copy to-day—NOW !
The Shoe illustrated is a Willow Calf Derby Shoe, Fine
Stitched Welts, in Black or Tan. Also in Boots.
Price 21s. Postage 9d. Extra.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George Street, Sydney, 8 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
. s . e copy r of Rigney’s New Shoe Catalogue.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal managements
of Mr. F. O. Rigney, the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
i-.-i
British-Built Woodworking Machines'
'\li7'E are Sole Agents for Messrs. J. Sagar
v Y & Co., England, makers of High-
grade Woodworking Machines. Just landed,
a new stock of machines embodying the
latest ideas for High Speed, Quick Hand-
ling and Convenience—Bandsaw, Mortising,
Moulding, Tenoning, Planing and Thick-
nessing Machines, Fret Saws, Swing Cut-
off Saws, Saw Benches, Buzz Planers,
Wood-turning Lathes.
ħ
WRITE; FOR CATALOGUE M 5.
Thomas MOPherson & Son
established so years. 582-588 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Decide on a “Triumph.”
“ Triumph ” Motor Cycles have patented features which make them a
superior type of machine to those which have no such improvements.
The carburetter was designed by the “ Triumph ” Co., and is manufac-
tured by them exclusively for their own models. The handle-bar control
is a specially improved type and thoroughly trustworthy.
Two of these machines dead-heated with another make for first place
in the Melbourne to Sydney Reliability Trial, held a few weeks ago, and
neither lost a point through the baud, three days’run. Call and let us
show you one, or write for catalogue.
h
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
largest Cycle Building Howe in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
L I EUR.
BENEDICTINE
The “MOTA” (Regd.).
The “Mota” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking 1 , driving or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
‘SHELL’
GIVES
BEST
ALL-ROUND
RESULTS i
UNDER
ALL
CONDITIONS.
AND THAT'S WHAT YOU NEED.
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWE.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2S. Posted.
(Awl. 2 needles,
z reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
ĥ
I Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
|is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—x bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
BTAR NOVELTY CO.. 220 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Waybacks Again.’
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30-h.p. Chalmers
£490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-h.p, THOMAS,
6-Cylinder —7=Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, sVDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
ARTISTS. Why not Exhibit in
The World’s Art Market
Fourth Annual London Salon,
CORONATION YEAR?
Membership (10s. entrance and £lls. p.a.) entitles artists
to show three works, one on line. Frames need not be
sent. Particulars from ALLIED ARTISTS’ ASSOCIATION,
LTD., 68 Chancery Lane, London, W.C.
For Sale.
c
HEAP,Second-Hand 15 Break H.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
FOR SALE BY AUCTION,
on Friday, February 10,
at 12 o’clock noon,
30=40 H.P.—^
Daimler Touring Car.
Complete with Hood, Wind Screen, Stepney
Wheel, Powerful Headlights, Sidelights, Two
Ignitions. Appearance as new. Four Cylinder*
124 x 150.
Silent and Very Powerful Car.
Only reason for selling, owner going to England.
James R. Lawson 8 Little,
AUCTIONEERS,
128-130 Pitt Street, near King Street, Sydney.
ħ
h
ĥ
Enhance the charm
Madam, and be healthier with the new
D & A Directoire Corset, rather than
discount it and injure your health with ill-
fitting and old-fashioned Corsets.
Madam, you cannot rival the "Chic" and "Svelte"
appearance of French and American women unless
you wear a corset that shapes gracefully and fits
comfortably.
At Paris the fountain head of styles, and
wherever good styles reign, our designer has sought
most carefully before, after many experiments,
we perfected on living
models our wonderful
new D & A Directoire
Corset. The result is a
corset giving just that
n Chic n and "Svelte" appear-
ance which the most fashionable French, American and
Canadian women seek. Moreover, by holding the body
in shape without compressing unduly at any point, the
D & A Directoire is more healthful for you than any other
Corset. For sale by all leading a-i
THE DOMINION CORSET COMPANY, QUEBEC, CANADA.
e/J&& S
STEVENS FIREARMS
THE WORLD’S, STANDARD.
m
Our
POPULAR PRICED RIFLES
arc notable for their ACCU-
RACY, RELIABILITY and
LASTING QUALITIES.
STEVENS FIGHTING LINE.
Our Demi-Bloc and Repeating Shotguns are "Superb for Trap and Field/'
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Insist on our make.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.O Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [7
“Vic.”: Mayor Davey, descending for the
first time on the City Bench the other day, came
out with a pronunciamento. Davey’s mayoral
ambition has been bottled up for 20 years. Has he
not seen the evils he would abolish with one sweep
of his arm? Of course! So his first mayoral
utterance from the bench was in substance the
same as that of Dickens’s Alderman Cute in “The
Chimes “I’rn determined to put poverty down.”
Mayor Davey said he was resolved to abolish men-
dicancy from the streets. Even the blind men were
to go. Half a century back Melbourne’s mayor
was Davis. Said Davis : “ I’m determined to put
drunkenness down.” He began with imprison-
ment without the option. Wintle was gaol
governor, the place being known as Wintle’s
Hotel. Then somebody’s pocket was picked of a
watch, amidst the very audience of the City
Police Court. Says Wintle to Davis: “Here,
what am I to do? The gaol’s choked up with
drunks.” Davis: “ Build more gaols.” Wintle:
“ Oh, that’s all my eye!” So they had just to
put Davis’s drunks through the colander and let
’em go. Then Davis awoke —as Davey will.


Shipping:.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN ani LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
Carrying one class of passengers only.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN' and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15g. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDKRSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Frbmanti.b Agents: GKO. WILLS* CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cahines-de-'u <e ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Room", Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
T^ e gank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and TilE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of [|eui Zealand.
Sydney Branch:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking’ busings.
THE.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAT OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONI ON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTORS— Philip 11. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt.; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Sijttor, Kt., M.U.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,454 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNItO. Esq.; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, E<q.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. i~inr=-.-nar-ns
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. A<st. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116,154 —Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hor,. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
FARES TO LONDON.
STNGT/E .. 1., £66 11., £3S 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 H., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
v> Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving- in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
a One class only. h Calls Hobart.
Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London From £57 ~ £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Capetown & Durban, from £3l 10s.. £l3 13s £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line —£112
(First-class each way); £B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ħ
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
February 18.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
| March 18.
?SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FAUKS— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Itoslon, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
‘•V
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
* to Papua and the Pacific islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Jan. 27, Mar. 10 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Feb. 24, April 7. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Commissioners have MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS and SETTLERS from £5O to £2OOO, repayable by
instalments extending*over SO years. Low rates of interest and special repayment privileges.
The Savings Bank Department accepts DEPOSITS from 1/- up to £5OO. Interest paid on the minimum
monthly balance.
THE SAFETY DEPOSIT BOX (Price Gd.) is the latest idea for savings. Try one.
ADVANCES MADE UP TO £25,000 at moderate rates of interest on City or Country' Freeholds.
Full particulars and forms of application at any Branch, Post Office Agency, Crown Lands Office, or at the
Head Office, MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. J. 11. Davies, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
M' ,
DIRECTORS
h
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
The Hon. O. K. JlyclCeliar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The lion.'James Thomas Walker.
‘‘The Hon. ltegiiiflfd James lilaek, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Tiie Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C,
Auditors .-' Alfred George Milson, Esq. William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office-George St., Sydney. London Office—64- Old Broad St., E.C.
AVitli 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Afti,ip&.Oanada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable Agiiiitrances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected, tetters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
j J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager-
FURS, Curios, Shells &, Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curia Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. Central 2196.
And 605 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing 1 thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,.
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bonv and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6 ; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,.
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchases Packed Free and Labelled.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
They glide
over the paper as
a skilful skater
skims over the
ice. No sticking,
spurting or splut-
tering. Isn't this
what YOU are
looking for ?
BALL-
POINTED
PENS!
They write
with the ease and
comfort of a lead
pencil. The little
ball on the point
is a real wonder
worker. Try a
6d. Sample Box.
Obtainable from
all Stationers.
XHE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
M. AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, E.-q., Vice-Chairman ; lion. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Quarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
!
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.) ;,Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A., .
Write for Prospectus. ' 131 I'itt St., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Feb. 4 and
Mar. 4
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing with Koombana
in Fremantle for North-
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Olirns.
I S.S. Innaniincka, Jan. 28.
J S.S. Allinga, Feb. 4.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldffelds r
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained!
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-screw Steamer.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
•Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.=—
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SOMERSET,”
11,300 Tons. B. G. Hassvas&J), Commandei
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - - 31st Jan.
„ „ „ SYDNEY .... 4th Feb.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - - Bth Feb.
„ „ „ ADELAIDE - - - 13th Feb.
The saloon Accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL* [ £49 10s ’ £l3 13s - £l5 15s ' £1717a -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply' to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Insurance, &c.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Dav, F.I.A.
Head Office :
30 CASTLEREAQH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: . Victoria:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan " always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Girls’ own
■ Newspaper, invites the submission of STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. “FARMER AND
SETTLER ” OFFICE, *35 Kent Street, Sydney.


YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT A
‘SMOKE’ IS TILL YOU'VE
tried MY CIGARS
m'
auAr\ {
I’M going to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australasia—and the most confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too.
Talk about joy! Why, to sit round a camp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching to your mates,
each of you smoking one of my Cigars, joy isn’t
in it! It’s just simply bliss!
As the yarns go round, the blue smoke
curling upwards in a fragrant cloud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering on your
®ips—I tell you, you’ll spend some of the
happiest hours of your life.
ĥ
Letters are coming in to
me in shoals from all over
Australasia, praising up my
Cigars; Take one I’ve just
got as I write this, for in-
stance—it’s from a chap on a
cattle station up in Northern
Queensland. He writes:—
“Those DIADEMAS Cigars
ofyoursare just alright. I’ve
always smoked a pipe—but
no more. Not that I've given
up pipe-smoking altogether;
but when I want a real smoke
—something rich—l light up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment.”
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
you may select.
Send for* 100 of any of
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver l promptly,
postage or* carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoke 5 op 6 of them, and [f they’re
rot superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’ll return every penny of your money—no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked.
My Cigars are made from the very finest
mild, rich mellow Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
leaf. The Cigars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There sno “catch” about this offer—it’s just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne, He'll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you 11 make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dark colors,
Mv Only Address is
LODIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
A HUGE SUCCESS!
.
Custard
Bird’s
Custard until Sruil
The delicious Fruits or New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS !
Temperature mild ; Atmosphere exhilarating ; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
The Leading Hotel —the Fashionable -Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished ; Excellent
Attendance ; First-class Cuisine ; Kosher Meat; Telephone ; Electric Light; Select Billiard
Room, etc. Central Situation; close to River, Rail, Trams, G.P.0., Tourist Bureau, etc.
Rooms now being booked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. McDONALD, Manager, Highfield Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for.the comfort of visitors during: the forthcoming- season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged anytime to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
ħ
WHERE THE PEN IS A POWER.
Wherever much writing is done—where the pen is a
power in the day’s work—you find the Onoto Pen.
It is appreciated and used by all because
—lt Is the cleanest fountain pen—it cannot leak.
—lt saves time filling itself in a flash from any
ink supply.
—lt writes smoothly and speedily, never tiring
wrist and hand.
Get an Onoto Self-Filling Safety Fountain Pen. It can be obtained of
all stationers, jewellers, stores, etc. Price 12/- and upwards, according to
size. And it is British made.
Now is the time
to do away with
old-fashioned
writing imple-
ments—to follow
the lead of the
expert—to go to
the nearest
stationer’s shop
and buy an—
e Pen
Booklet about the Onoto Pen sent free to all interested on application
to T. De La Rde & Co., Ltd., 31t> BunhUl Bow, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representative, Norman Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
How to Woo
and Win.
THE ART AND
ETIQUETTE OF
Love and Courtship
The Best Lover’s Guide
Ever Published.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. \Vrustling, by Frank
Go tub, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/G. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1 /-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dp..
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
m~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
iflßr
Aig
L
Marvellously Simple!
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: anti Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling: the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing' some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of;any State will do.
Tiif. Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
h
AIR-GAS MACHINES.
BRANDT’S AIROLITE
for Lighting Houses.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
BRANDT BROS.
V i.'
Lamp
House,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
and Pitt Street, Sydney.
mmiaim
: THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
k
MOUSTACHED MEN!
A term of opprobrium used to be “ a beardless boy’’—but the same stigma
attaches to a man who cannot grow a moustache ! If you have only
a weakly hair growth then the sooner you remove this social and
business shortcoming the better.
CAPILLARINE
will grow you a luxuriant moustache—has been
doing so for 30 years, and never, yet failed.
10/6 a Jar. Posted in Plain Wrapper Anywhere.
Try aC.& A. Moustache Trainer—it makes the moustache grow
shapely. Just wear It at night ?./6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St*, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
s
V
Hotels, &c.
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/0, and Double bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK WORTH, Manager.
Business Announcements.
A. &
rJOyUBAU/ -y
rju/Orf AA <?y
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
itles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
ĥ
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Nibiett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently,
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE maybe placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of recommendation from
Doctors, Clergymen and other persons of the
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.--Send for very interesting booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. Rocke,
Tomi’Sitt & Co., 292 to 298 Flinders St., Melbourne.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
nm
to
£
mm
mm
"2L
K'cri'a'i—
FIDELITAS
rc
ysnffa&m 1
hr i#m
h.M: -
\ 3
rm,
m
§W% IP |
■''f;
1
mc:
F.WOLFF&SQHN
Karlsruhe
Baden.
i^i
Triumph of
Modem Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments


HOTEL DAN/ELL
(Late Imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others. - ®®
Laxo-Tonic Pills
are both Laxative and Tonic in action. They do
not gripe, but do their work quickly, effectively
and painlessly. Sold at 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
CALDWELL'S
High Quality
Anthony Hordern & SonsftKfi
INKS.
Hill, Sydney
STATION
HANDS !
THE Great Sale event of the
Year will start on the 20th
January, and we thought we’d
just like to mention one or two items
on which you can save money—you
fellows who s end so much of your
time in the saddle !
Men’s Oilskin Coats and Slickers—
All specially reduced. Ours are the
reliable kind that give every satisfaction.
Sale Prices : 10/6, 15/6, 18/6,21/=,
24/=, 26/6.
Saddle Twist Trousers— Good, hard-
wearing cloths in grey and brown,
splendidly finished and best quality
Trimmings ; all sizes in stock in Walking
Style or Stockman’s Cut.
Usually 8/11 10/6 12/6
Sale Price 7/11 9/3 11/3
Real Venetian Whipcord Trousers—
The Big Block Special Quality, in three
shades, fawns and greys ; sizes 3 to 7.
Superior finish. Stockman’s Cut. Usual
Advertised Price, 13/11; Sale Price, 12/6.
You will be wise to secure a few pairs of
these, while the Sale is on. Also the
boots you need —and the underwear and
sundries —order them now, too. We’ll
send you a Sale Catalogue if you give us
your address.
FINNEY, ISLES
& Go., Limited,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Duncan Mclntyre, who was one of the
speakers at the banquet which followed the
official opening of the Kingstliorpe-Goombungee
Railway—Queensland’s newest line—was among
those who said “ Hooray ! ” when Lady Bowen,
wife of Bananaland’s first Governor, dug up the.
first sod of Queensland’s pioneer railway. That
was at Ipswich somewhere about 50 years ago.
The Bananaland Redistribution of Seats
Commission has discovered that, in consequence
of the congestion policy, the Metropolis should
have four more seats and the North and West four
less. It is difficult to add more electors and more
territory to the Western electorates without
making them about three times the size of Sahara ;
and if it is done, the Western members will want
an aeroplane and a search warrant to find their
constituents. In lieu of a Commission to Redis-
tribute the Electoral Districts, a man with a
wooden eye ought to see that Queensland has
more need of a Commission to Redistribute the
People.
The Queensland Government has appointed
a Board, consisting of H. L. Archdall, P.M. at
Rockhampton ; C. F. V. Jackson. Chief Inspector
of Mines; and W. H. Rands, geologist, “to
inquire into the alleged dissatisfaction of the
miners employed in the Great Fitzroy, and the
anticipated danger of a large fall of ground in con-
sequence of the methods employed in that mine ;
and to make such recommendations as may be
necessary with a view of guarding against any
danger that may be found to exist.” This is the out-
come of some questions asked in the Assembly by
Crawford, M.L.A. for Fitzroy.
“Kowhai” : It’s no surprise to me that
Queensland State railways failed to pay their
interest bill last year by £130,000. “ Cheapness”
seems to be the word ; and the cheap line is usu-
ally very expensive to maintain and work. In the
South Burnett district there are many branches
that could be well constructed at a compara-
tively low cost; but those now being built
are shoddy. The Kingaroy-Nanango railway is
a disgrace ; the grades and bridges and badly-laid
light rails will all have to be altered as soon as
there is any heavy traffic to contend with. And
unless there is heavy traffic the lines will never
pay. On the Kilkivan branch the heavy loco-
motives have just about reached the safety limit
for the light rails, and when the South Burnett
is fully populated and settled (and that time
is not far distant) the railway will never cope
with the traffic. Even at the present time the
station appointments are quite inadequate. At
Wondai —to quote not the worst example—the
station consists of two sidings and a dead end.
Every day six trains pass. As both sidings are on
one side of the platform, and as they and
the dead end are generally full 'of trucks,
the only procedure is for trains to come in,
back out, toss for sidings and chance it. What
with shunting -and extra staff (that ought to be
employed but isn’t), a nice amount of coal is
wasted every year, and a nice amount of extra
wages ought to be wasted but isn’t. On one occa-
sion there were four trains in the station and the
dead-end was full of trucks ; so the only way the
trains could pass and pick up loaded trucks was
to shunt everything half a mile down the track.
Brisbane has lately been on the verge of
revolution over the awful character of its water
supply. The turbid fluid pours out in a chocolate
flood that would he questioned by even a drought-
stricken bullock. The Water and Sewerage Board
(the title ought to be abbreviated by omi,tting the
word “water”) discussed the matter lately, and
a leading member remarked apologetically :
“Well, it’s only the people who drink it that are
making complaints." The audacity of these people
who expect to be able to drink the water they pay
for !
“ A Juddite ” : Central Queensland, of all
places in the world, is now in the throes of an
agitation against Sunday trains. Ji° n ff
Shire Council petitioned for a second mail, and,
accordingly, a second mail train was run on a
Sunday to fit in with the Rockhampton-Brisbane
arrangements. The question for the Commis-
sioner lay between Western Queensland and Rock-
hampton, and sooner than change a Rockhamp-
ton mail he decided on introducing a modicum of
Sabbath-breakingintpLongreuch, Barcaldine, etc.
But the West is opposed to Sabbath desecration
and bad or insufficient beer; consequently, at a
public meeting held at Longreach, a resolution
was unanimously carried against the desecration.
Barcaldine, Blackall and Aramac Shire Councils
have been asked to fall into line, and to save the
profoundly religious reputation of the West, these
bodies are bound to acquiesce.
AFTER THE ACCIDENT.
IST CHAUFFEUR: “I thought he knew what the machine could do.”
2ND DO.: “ Yes—but he didn't know what it couldn't do.’
“ Geofred Be this “ living white” ques-
tion. I was from February, 1908, to December,
1909, on the move among West and North Queens-
land towns, and in only one place did I strike all-
whiteness. I hereby award Blackall the cake
accordingly, for it was in that town’s seven pubs
that I found seven white cooks. Ah Chow may
have been the cook in most Kidderland pubs once,
but Jap certainly is the cook now. He is cook
and laundryman, and in that “ and ” lies the root
of all the eyil— he combines the duties, and thus
makes a doiible appeal to Mr. Bung. So he goes
on cooking and ironing, and incidentally collect-
ing data to aid in some day blowing out Austra-
lia’s magnificent boy sodgers. “Gidgee” debits
the Chinese or Jap cook (it doesn’t matter which)
to the “ champagne-swilling pubs.” As for divid-
ing the pubs into two lots like that, the fact is
that “Labor” are in most cases a}so “cham-
pagne” pubs, with two “tables” —one at 20s. and
the other at about 60s. At these places, Jap
cooks for both tables, the only difference being
that at one table curry is served up with decora-
tions, while at the other you get it plain.
From a remote part of Queensland :
The side-entertainments at country shows are, as a
rule, dreary and devoid of even tuppence worth of excite-
ment ; but I saw one recently that made Wayback’s
whiskers stand straight on end and knock his hat off.
In a corner of the ground was a calico-covered table
upon which stood 10 or 12 bottles containing varying
quantities of water. Upon these a most unmusical indi-
vidual tapped out “Annie Laurie,” “Home, Sweet
Home” and other modern music-hall hymns. Just as
he had got through about six bars of “The
Old Apple Tree ” the table —covered with a heavy
cloth —commenced to rock violently, and suddenly
hurled itself into thq air, Then a wild figure
burst from underneath the wreckage and started for the
ranges at five miles a second, roaring like the Devil when
be drops the shovel on his tail. The nimble Law was
promptly in hot pursuit, but would never have been
even mentioned in the “also started ” had it not
been that, in rounding the corner of the pavilion
the pursued met the president of the show, and
the two were so mutually overcome that they both
bowed to the ground—backways. With a leap the Law
landed on the stranger’s chest, and wanted to know what
he meant by it. When all parties had recovered their
breath, the prisoner explained that he had crawled under
the musician’s table during lunch hour to .sleep off the
liquid portion of his meal, had gone to sleep and dreamt
he was dead, and thought that the undertaker was tap.
ping the nails into the lid of his wooden overcoat. At the
instigation of the president, the Law let the Resurrected
depart with a caution.
Orthodoxy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
We want a man who can fill our church. —Agonised
cry of Brisbane Anglican.
[F the churches Anglican
In the pulpit find a man
Who can put the fire of spirit
In his preaching,
’Tis the fashion, nowadays,
To inspect his little ways,
And to look for crooked courses
In his teaching.
If he be a dullard tame,
If his speech be limp and lame,
If he never rudely break the
Sabbath slumber,
He may undisturbed pray
In his prosy, wooden way,
And no trouble shall his vistas
Ever cumber.
Will the Churches never learn
That the People ever yearn
For the human voice and spirit
That can thrill them ;
That the rigid man of wood
Who is regular and good
With his dry-as-dust tradition
Cannot fill them ?
But the tongue of holy fire
Do the Churches not desire,
If they find a true apostle
How they fear him !
’Tis accounted as a sin
That his words the people win,
And the multitude cry gladly :
“Let us hear him ! ’’
So it comes disciples stray
And believers melt away.
And the Faith that once we cherished
On the rocks is ;
And the only comfort left
To the Temple all bereft
Is to know its prosy preacher
Orthodox is.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 21, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The recent heavy rains, were responsible for the
erratic behaviour of some steamers on the winding
stream that ripples past this city. The Wodonga
had a mad struggle to round Kangaroo Point; and
the Port Chalmers, after grounding at Kinellan,
flung herself upon the Kennedy wharf and bit a
£3OO meal out of that expensive structure. The
vessels moored in the Gardens reach danced and
swung to corners in the swirling current; but the
fresh demonstrated that the cutting away of the
various points has done much to keep the river
within its banks at flood time.
Mr. Denham lately took a flit to a place called
Goombungee, where an engine broke the usual
ribbon while the Minister declared the line open.
Rain, however, fell upon the function—fell in
torrents; so the contemplated trip to the Far
West, where the black soil clings, was adjourned
sine die.
On a recent trip the Minister for Railways
delved into the Fassifern district and journeyed
over the proposed route of the extension to
Maroon Station, which is just under the Main
Range. Maroon was taken up in the ’3o’s or very
early ’4o’s by Kinchler and McCattie, from whom
it was bought by the late Captain T. Collins, who
after cutting it from Telemon, the original hold-
ing, presented it as a wedding portion to his
eldest son, Cardon Collins, well known as an
amateur rider. It was acquired by the Prior
family somewhere about the ’6o’s. Very soon
Miss Dicky Lightollar will don the satin and
orange blossoms to take over the management of
the station household, and, incidentally, of the
proprietor, Mr. B. T. Murray-Prior.
Some of the local Inky Wayfarers assembled
hurriedly on Friday afternoon, and banded them-
selves together on the lines of the Victorian
brotherhood. The roll on day bore 43
names—and quite a lot of them didn’t belong to
men. Lewis, of the Telegraph, was in the chair,
and there was a Shawian ring about the speech
from the Throne, as read by the herald.
A friend who has a car writes wailfully from
your city that the dearth of ferries over sundry
creeks between Newcastle and Sydney necessi-
tated railing the petrol chariot over the Hawkes-
burv. The chariot was so annoyed that it abso-
lutely refused to look at the harbor on arrival,
and had to have a rest cure. The trip over Ben
Lomond and down the range in the Glen limes
district was something worth going far to see, and
roadside hospitality lent a charm to each gliding
day.
The good news reaches me that Inspector Jack
White is himself again, after a long and tedious
recovery from his attack of appendicitis.
A crowd of eager people climbed aboard the new
Blue Funnel boat, Aeneas, on Tuesday last to have
afternoon tea and a good look round. I put in a
pleasant hour admiring the nice cool cabins, the
blue and; buff hangings, the fittings of the saloon
and lourige, and the cosy day nursery with its
Mother Goose cretons and Hans Anderson pic-
tures. But the part of the ship I wanted to take
home was the patent plate-washer and the model
laundry, so that, for once, I could, treat the hired
princess with the scorn she has so richly earned.
In the assemblage I noticed Mrs. Hawthorn, in
summery white, and Mrs. Bob Philp, in the same
comfy raiment.
Andrew Menzies, who left here last week for
Edinburgh to take his medical degree, turned
back at Port Adelaide, and hurried north again
to tell Miss Marie Collins, who is one of Bris-
bane’s prettiest daughters, that he simply could
not leave her behind. The wedding is to take
place at Darra the day this is set up. The
devoted pair will then rush off to Scotland, and
pursue the degree hand in hand. It isn’t every
man who rushes back across a continent just to
say he can’t live without you.
The Theatre Royal is in the hands of renovators
prior to the advent of a company of vaudevillers,
who will descend upon this city somewhere about
the beginning of March. A really high-class
variety show would be appreciated here. The sum
of £6OOO is being expended upon the comfortable
and well-ventilated little Royal, so the result
should be something worth looking at. Continen-
tal and American talent will, I am informed, form
the spinal column of the new show, intermingled
with Australia’s best.
The state of the Hospital finances has shaken up
the community, so the Mayor is to try and squeeze
out further contributions from the public purse.
Some sanguine soul says that all would be plain
sailing if the Government would make an adequate
subsidy on subscriptions received and- the public
shell out at the rate of Is. Id. per head per annum
—a trifle better than they are doing at present.
Thirteen pence a year doesn’t seem much ; but it
takes a lot of collecting, especially when minor
appeals are nibbling at bank accounts. It will be
a glad day when the hospital finances are looked
after altogether by the Government, and the peri-
odical charity distress signal is done away with.
A guest at the last Science Conference remarked
upon the amount of beard grown by the learned.
Our very own Mr. Botanist Bailey is a case in
point. I expect their hobbies won’t allow them
razor-time.
Miss Arlie Rankin, a sister of Mrs. Roger
Hartigan, and Miss Libette Shand are to
have a wedding a-piece in April. Miss Rankin’s
bridegroom is Dr. Kersay Cannon. The doctor’s
grandfather was among Bananaland’s first pill-
prescribers. There was one before him—Dr.
Barlow, the father of John Kent Barlow; still,
Kersay Cannon was healing the sick as far back
as the early 'so’s.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Brisbane Tory papers, echoing the
Southern Press, are raising a cry about “Federal
extravagance,” alleging that Commonwealth ex-
penditure “has risen 41 per cent, in 10 years.”
In a country known as Queensland the expendi-
ture has risen in five years from £3,581,403 to
£5,113,578, an increase of about 43 per cent, in half
the time, while loan expenditure has risen from
£225,000 (1904-5) to £1,486,216 (1909-10)—an in-
crease of nearly 700 per cent. But the Australian
Parliament (see Courier and Matl) has been
“extravagant,” while the Kid-Philp has only
been guilty of “statesmanship.”
“Leo Lear”: Before “Bromide” suc-
ceeds in his laudable effort to “live white” in
Bananaland, he will have to reform more than the
tucker department of the hotel. In the “Queensland
Brands Directory” he will find the following
owners of registered brands, and therefore sup-
pliers of beef for the white man’s mess : —Ah Bue,
Ah Bing, Ah Bow, Ah Chip. Ah Chee, Ah Cow ;
also Charles Patrick Ah Pan, James Henry Ah
Quee, Liza Jane Look Hop and Harriet Sarah
Ah Gee; again—Affoo Willie, .Timmy 800, Rose
Ah Mook, Yep Ah Chu, Lucy Gin Chee, Tie
Gong Chong, Moo Chin Jah and James Ah Pong ;
likewise Jar Foo, Elizabeth Foo, George See To
Hee, Kum Foo, Lie Fook, Willie Toy Gee; and
then Dabee Sing, Goodge Singh, Long Sing, Low
Sing, Jofaak Singh, Gong Sing, You Tee (brand
UTB), Tong Tee. Rump steak can likewise be
purchased in the live state from Nabby Bux, Henry
Ju Bow Ah Poo, Pooney Appo Sam, Adalab Khan,
and—shades of England I—John1 —John Smith (Kanaka).
However, the white Australian need not despair
altogether, as these names are also to be found in
the same publication : —Srnellie, Spittles, Swindle;
also Slaughter, Killer, Death and Hell (Uriah),
not to mention a cricket eleven containing Ball,
Bails, Fielder, Stump, Bowler, Batts, Over, Legg,
Duck, Maiden and Block.


£lO in Cash
AWARDED BY
rjflßShflLL
SHOE CO. 291
C]| The £lO Cash Prize offered for the best 200-word argu-
ment in favor of the buying of "Trade-Marked” Goods
has been awarded by the Committee (H. B. James, Esq.,
and P. W. Danby, Esq.), to
R. Kofoed, Esq.,
60 Argyle Street, Sr. Kilda, Vic.
who submitted the following:
SIX REASONS why it is to the advantage of the
Buyer to Purchase Trade-Marked Goods
J. Because the maker’s name on an article means that the
purchaser buys on CERTAINTY, not on faith. WITHOUT
the maker’s name the purchase is a mere SPECULATION.
2. Because the maker’s name is an assurance of his own
faith in the article he is offering to the public, ancl a
guarantee that the buyer will receive full value for his
money.
3. Because it is a further assurance that the article purchased
is not the product of promiscuous or haphazard methods
in the process of manufacture, but the result of careful
supervision in every detail by skilled workmen.
4. Because a reliable trade-mark is a guide to the buyer, and
becomes a synonym for QUALITY, DURABILITY and
DEPENDABILITY-for PROVEN WORTH AND MERIT.
5. Because the trade-marked article is the MANUFACTU-
RER’S GUARANTEE against defects in material and
workmanship-and is the PURCHASER’S SAFEGUARD
against risk in buying.
6. Because the trade-marked article is all in favor of the pur-
chaser. The manufacturer has all to lose and nothing to
gain by selling an article inferior in quality to that which
his trade-mark is intended to indicate, and because decep-
tion on his part would recoil against his commercial
standing and integrity.
„ . . R. KOFOED.
60 Argyle Street, St. Kilda.
<3fThe winning argument is clear, logical and practical,
and we heartily commend it to the careful perusal of
all buyers of boots and shoes.
C|J The Marshall Shoe Co. insists that every pair of shoes
manufactured by them shall have its distinguishing
Trade-Mark or Brand. The intelligent buyer will look
for it.
The difficult task undertaken by the Committee will be
better appreciated when it is known that the selection
was made from several thousands of "Arguments,” and
although it was originally intended to make only One
Prize, we have decided to award to
R. J. McCOLLIN (Crow’s Nest, Toowoomba, Queensland) and
to H. KEARY (15 Dunedin Street, Ponsonby, Auckland, N.Z.)
respectively for the Second and Third Best "Argument”
a Pair of our First-Grade Shoes.
At the same time we wish to record our great apprecia-
tion for the time and trouble which the other competitors
have taken to express their views on this vital question.
MARSHALL SHOE CO.,
RICHMOND, VIC.
SYDNEY.
ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE.
For comfort and health you must wear
all-wool stockings, socks, and underwear. Nothing
else will do. Most all-wool wear shrinks.
Wear the hosiery that is made of soft, fleecy,
absorbent Australian wool, and nothing but
wool, and that is absolutely unshrinkable.
"Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear, for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters. Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock
he can obtain it from his
wholesale house.
In case of difficulty wr te
"Jason" Booklet and
name of nearest Agent ,
to
Jason Hosiery Co.,
Leicester, England.
Aa6 <f>
r
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
.. 6d 1
.. 5d |
STEIDLE
and LUX,
HER EXCELLENCY
THE COUNTESS OF DUDLEY
“The Block,”
294 Collins St,
Melbourne,
Telephone 3429.
Y>
m.
Wf-
m
/
ARTISTS and DESIGNERS OF FASHIONS IN LADIES’ HAIRDRESSING.
IF you want your hair dressed in the very Latest Mode, if you wisely
decide to invest in Artificial Hair Accessories of the latest and most
exclusive kind, or if the time has come when a semi or entire
transformation is necessary, remember that the highest standard of
quality and workmanship belongs to the
MAISON STEIDLE & LUX.
TO REMIND Country Resi-
dents of the 26th and the
Great DON SUMMER SALE.
1" The Sale which has a- Bright , Brisk
and Beneficent Career.
If The Sale which [lnsures Country
Residents a Rich Harvest ofi
Golden Bargains.
If Write at once for a Don Sale
Catalogue , and Panticipate in this
Bounteous Reaping ofi Goodly Goods.
DON STORE,
Glenferrie, Melbourne.


CRUEL CftSE OF
WEEPING ECZEMA
Suffered So Terribly She Could
Neither Work nor Sleep —Her
Poor Hands were Perfectly Raw-
Baby had Skin Trouble, Too.
MOTHER AND CHILD
CURED BY CUTICURA
“I was for ciyht months the victim of
torriblo suffering from eczema. My
9 /•’i/-' r'J
;*> r°; ; ' _> >l/
V ’\9 C, f« if
v\'^ : :-v v -v
hands were like raw beer
and I was told that my
complaint was weeping
eczema. I had it more
or less all over my body
as well as on my face and
it gave me so much suf-
fering that I could
neither work nor sleep.
The chemist gave me a
prepared powder and
told me to bathe my
hands in water and dust
them with the powder.
But this did me no good. It seemed
rather to chap my hands more, so I
went to see a doctor. He gave me somo
medicine and told me that I might not
be rid of the disease for two y®ars. 1
became fairly downhearted. Ih© dis-
ease gradually grew worse and eventu-
ally I was unable to attend to any ox
my domestic duties.
“After a lapse of several months 1
happened to go to the house of a neigh-
bour’s sister, whose little boy had had
ringworm and was cured, I was told, by
Cuticura. I was recommended to try it
myself and when I got home I persuaded
my husband to send for a set of the Cuti-
cura Remedies. Their use had immediate
effect, my skin peeled, and new flesh
formed within a week. It is glorious to
be once more able to get about and attend
to my domestic duties. lam quite cured
and it is Cuticura alone that has cured
me. 1 also found Cuticura a positive
remedy for another form of skin trouble,
known commonly as heat bumps,
from which my infant child was then
suffering. I applied the Cuticura Oint-
ment and in the course of a few days
the ‘ bumps ’ entirely disappeared. Mrs.
A. Holton, The Grove, nr. Wantage,
Berks., England, Aug. 30, 1909.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Cuticura Is the most economical treatment known
for affections of the skin and scalp. A tablet of Cuti-
cura Soap and a box of Cuticura Ointment are often
sufficient to cure. Sold throughout the world. Depots.
London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la
Chaussee d'Antin; Australia, R. Towns <fc Co., Syd-
ney' U. S. A., Potter Druz & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props, Boston. ttC£~ Post-free. 32-page Cuticura
Book on the Care and Treatment of the Skin.
ANTINEURASTHIN.
Dr. Hartmann’s Nerve and Brain Food.
ANTINEURASTHIN contains neither drug nor chemical,
but builds up the nervous system by administering
the natural food element of the brain and nerves—
Lecithin—in an active organic state.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the only means known to Science
of doing this.
ANTINEURASTHIN—There is no secret about it—to
every purchaser an analysis, endorsed by one of
London’s most famous Analysts, is given.
ANTINEURASTHIN feeds the brain and nerves, thereby
giving permanent good results, and not the temporary
deadening or stimulation obtained from drugs, etc.
ANTINEURASTHIN means Mental Energy—a power of
application to work, and of concentration of mind-
improved digestion, sound, healthy sleep, and
general good health.
■ANTINEURASTHIN has received the endorsement of
i some of the world’s most famous physicians, and has
proved itself in the Hospitals of Europe.
■ ANTINEURASTHIN is prepared in tablet form—pleasant
to the taste, and conveniently carried when travelling.
I Write for Sample and Treatise, enclosing 9d. in stamps,
to the wholesale distributor for Australia and New
Zealand—H. A. GODDAItD, Eagle Street. Brisbane, Q.;
and H. A. GODDARD, 184 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt
Street, Sydney.
MAKE MONEY
EASILY.
WE can show you how to start a
profitable business in your spare
time at home, without interfering with
your ordinary pursuits, and gradually
develop it to
such an extent
as to warrant
you putting
your w hole
time to it. Suit-
able for either
sex. No ex-
perience or
capital neces-
sary.
Send stamp
to-day for free
particulars.
SUCCESS
CERTAIN
J
THE WENFORD CO.
1 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
BEAUTY’S FIRST STEP
Mrs. Wentworth-Lang, the well-known Beauty
Specialist, says
“If you wouid b 8 beautiful, you must be
healthy: to be bright anti healthy, your bodily
functions must be regular. Take, whenever
you feel you need it, a Laxatine Lozenge.
LAXATINE
will cleanse your system, without interfering
with either your work or your pleasure.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 1/- box. [1
ħ
Price 16/6
The Ideal Summer
Shoe for Ladies.
Beauty, daintiness, adaptability and ease of fit
were never better exemplified than in the fine
Shoe here illustrated—it is one of the latest and
most fashionable models.
PRICE 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, l/= extra.
GAZEKA SHOE PASTE, in Black and
Brown, large tin, 6d.
Write for Bpoklet, “Shoeliglit.”
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. H
The Same Quality at a Reduced Price
The 20-h.p. FORD.
The FORD CO. has reduced the price to us this year,
and we are thus enabled to do the same for you .
£270
The 1911 price for
20-h.p. FORD is—
£270
The FORD'CO. will produce something like 40,000 Cars this year.
This enormity of output, coupled with the fact that the Co. is free
of all liabilities, means that the cost of production is reduced to a
minimum. Hence the reason for the reduction in price.
Write us to-day for full particulars, and Catalogues post free. It is
best to order at once, as each shipment is being eagerly taken up.
Agents, Tarrant Motor Co
108 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
h
GET THE GENUINE “PLUM” RAZOR.
EVERY good tiling is imitated—and imitations abound
of this famous Half-Guinea Plum Razor of ours. Send
to us for it—we sell the genuine “ Plum ’* only, and see
that each razor before it goes out to you has the right
shaving edge. Guaranteed two years —we’ll keep it in
order free for that time.
The “Plum” Razor
•10/6
Post
Free.
The 0. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at night.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All tlie above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
Cereta
s&ir
is economical
because it is so
good and goes
so far.
Three or four tins are sufficient
for all the meals of an average
family for a whole year.
Agents—Harrison and Attwocd, Sydney.
TOBACCO POISON
Smokers Never Escape
Disease caused by
Excessive Smoking
but die yearly from
Heart Disease and Paralysis.
There is no epidemic or disease which destroys so
ruthlessly thousands of our best youths and men yearly
as the disease known as “ Excessive Smoking.
The blood is burned out by the nicotine or tobacco
poison; the nerves are shattered, and heart and brain
lose all power and become, in 99 per cent, of cases,
diseased.
Physicians all over the world condemn the habit
and the vice. They know it is the destroyer of the
6moker —sooner or later.
# s& * * *
A great French nerve specialist in "SMOKURE 11
Tablets has discovered the antidote for tobacco pois-
on, and which quickly repairs the ravages caused by
it, giving strength and life to the nerves, blood, brain
and heart. It quickly cures all ill effects and saves
life. Send stamp for free particulars to
THE NICOTO-MANIA TABLET CO..
1 75 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth St., Sydney.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PRRNIX” carbide:
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtaine
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 P.l
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
ĥ
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-da.v. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
AXiller’s Feather Shop,
Comer Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.! [6
WHY SUFFER FROM ASTHMA?
ASTHMATITE, the Great Asthma
Remedy, will immediately ease all the
distressing' symptoms, stop the choking, dis-
perse the phlegm, build up the system and
ensure sweet sleep. 2/- and 4-/- post free. Trial
packet posted for three penny stamps.
H. YOUNGMAN. Wilmott Street, Sydney.
Make your
own Records!
If you have never made a Record, never
heard your own voice or your own music
as others have heard it, you have denied
yourself a most interesting and fascinating
experience.
An Edison Phonograph will record and
reproduce what you say, play or sing
accurately and faithfully. Get an Edison
and make your own Records. Send your
voice to your friends ; preserve the sayings
of the children; record your progress if
you sing or play. Only the Edison Phono-
graph offers this great feature.
Let the Edison dealer near you demon-
strate this home-recording feature of the
Edison Phonograph to you to-day. Get
complete lists of Edison Phonographs and
Records from your dealer, or from us.
The EDISON
PHONOCRAPH.
NATIONAL PHONOCRAPH 00. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
From T. D. Mutch : This is a hearty vote of thanks to
“Hassan ” (B. 12/1/11) for letting the cat out of the hag
so far as the Australian Journalists’ Association of Mel-
bourne is concerned. From ids paragraph I extract
three admissions : (1) Unionism has been forced upon the
staffs of the three big Melbourne papers; (2) it the Mel-
bourne Journalists'Association is able to prevent it, the
underpaid pressmen will not get ready access to the
Court; and (3) most of the Melbourne pressmen do
not want unionism. It seems to me, then, that
the Australian Journalists' Association is at present a
bogus union—the M.S.U. of the journalistic industry.
“ Hassan ” further says that the Agb and Argus workers
are well paid, and that they have formed this Association
to prevent the ill-paid men from seeking any betterment,
w hich is kind and Christianly of the Age and Argus men.
I strongly suspect “ Hassan ” of being an employee of the
Age or Argus, and that his sentiments, as expressed, w,ill
meet with proprietorial approval. Now' let me state a
few facts for the benefit of the bloated Age and Argus men,
also for the less affluent outsiders. On September 9 last a
genuine trade-union of journalists was formed at Sydney
under the title of the Australian Writers and Artists’
Union. Its aim has been to secure the establishment of
similar unions in other centres, with the view of eventual
federation, and the registration of the federation under
the Commonwealth Act. A similar union has since beep
formed at Hobart, and a Press Union at Ballarat; while
negotiations are proceeding for unions at Brisbane
and Perth. Broken Hill already had a union,
the first in Australia; and there is something
of the kind at Adelaide. On Dec. 10 the Austra-
lian Journalists’ Association was formed at Melbourne.
Instead of communicating with the genuine union at
Sydney, with a view to co-operation, its officers got
swelled head and decided to try for registration as a
Federal body. They hurriedly drew up rules, and on the
13th day, December 23 to wit, rushed to the office of the
Registrar and dumped them down with the full expecta-
tion that the official seal would at once be affixed. But
the Registrar was not to be bluffed, and, with mild ex-
postulation, told his visitors that he would consider the
matter and let them know in 30 days. And so he
will. Meantime the Australian Writers and Artists’
Union got hold of a copy of the Melbourne Asso-
ciation’s rules, and what it saw and what it said
is contained in a bulky envelope despatched to the
Federal Registrar, oqjecting to the registration of
the Australian Journalists’ Association in Melbourne,
which does not want unionism, and which will do all it
can to prevent the ill-paid pressman from having a word
or two with the Federal Arbitration Court.
“Clarence O'Hagan".: I’m sure we ought to feel
obliged to “ II issan ” (13. 12/1/11) for putting us all right
in the matter of pay and perks on the press. As
one who,, for some three years, was a “ pnzeholder”
“Hassan'” says that “staff appointments on the
Age and Argus are reckoned the prizes of the
profession ”), I had to do about £9 worth of work for
about £4 10s. per week. The work included every r
thing, from Parliamentary notes (and reporting) down to
Government House levees. The fact of my getting only
“ junior ” pay didn’t prevent the millionaire management
from insisting on my doing “senior” work. Why
should it? Exactly, my dear “Hassan.” But, then,
bang goes your implied claim of perfection for the pro-
prietors of the “big” Melbourne papers. After all,
what do “Ilassan’s” alleged geniuses get? £6-at
the outside, £7 per week. Many good Sydney brick-
lavers are getting this, with liberal allowances
for overtime, etc. And whereas the “ bricky ” can
run his private life on a £3 or £4 basis, the “ senior” man
on the “big” (and wealthy) Melbourne papers, with
strict economy, has about 2s. 9d. left out of his screw by
Friday ! Twenty or thirty years ago £6 or £7 per week •
was worth having ; but to-day £6 or £7 a week goes no-
where on a family at Middle Park or Glenferrie when the
head of that family has to put on Argus “dog” or
Herald “side” and keep his end up with the men he
meets, not to mention the millionaire Model Proprietors,
who would sack a genius if he didn’t dress the part of
a Senior Man. As to the Boy Reporters and (alleged)
junior “ pres mien,” nothing “ Hassan” can say about them
nould cover the ground. This pest is especially promi-
nent in Sydney, a remanes of the bad, old Cheap and
Nasty, importing, buy-in-the-cheapest-and-sell-in-the-
deares’t-Uiarket days. It is due, of course, to the apocry-
phal “ promotion ” of “ devils,” copy-boys and office-lads
who lack education, manners, style, traditions, desire to
excel, taste for reading—in fact, everything a good
journalist displays. Thus, . passable office-lads and
senior messengers are metamorphosed into d
bad apologies for reporters, and, as a direct con-
sequence, our “great daily papers” are a scan-
dal and a crime against the English language.
This applies to Sydney with special force. In Melbourne
,t is a trifle better, because the Age and Argus insist on
even the “ juniors ” being able to spell and construct a
fair sentence. “ Hassan ”is quite wrong. A Pressmen’s
Union will do a lot of good if it is worked adequately. By
insisting on a certain apprenticeship and a reasonably
hi'di standard of efficiency (i.e., knowledge of the lan-
guage history, geography, and what good subs, call
breadth) in the reporters, both senior and junior, the Union
can demand a better rate of pay all round. “ Hassan ”
may be surprised (together with his “Australian Jour-
nalists’ Association ”) to learn that by increasing the
ability and knowledge and pay of the despised “ juniors,”
it wili not necessarily cause the competent senior man to
lose a quid or two of his Nabobian remuneration. Quite
otherwise, in fact. .
* * * *
“The Arcadian”: I respectfully ask you to pass
“ Hassan ” out. What does he know about the forma-
tion of the Australian Journalists’ Association? Wasn’t
he on holidavs all the time of its formation, and wasn’t
lie so enthusiastic that he did not risk his nose at the
door until the protection of the Arbitration law was
secured for him against dismissal? If he be such a one,
I am not surprised to read the drivel about the men not
b-ing unionists, but only forming an industrial associa-
tion to prevent “ ill-paid country pressmen ” and “free-
lances” doing them harm. “ Hassan ” talks of the Argus
and Age starting practically untried men at fr<m
£3 10s to £4 a week. When that part of thj
nara<naph was read, the smile extended frim
Uollins-street to the suburbs and back again.
There are more abuses on the press than in any oilier
wdk of life. Has “Hassan” heard of metropolitan
d ilies employing linemen on all-day-and-night jobs for
pis ?• Does he know of any who have been instructed to
do certain work and who, because their matter was
crowded out by advts., got nothing ? Does he know that
t’i l( .re are competent men to-day who sometimes earn
as much as 15s. a week? “Hassan” has apparently
been making good with his employer. He is saying,
*. | with this crowd, but not of them, and, after
all it is only a stopgap organisation.” As one who
attended everv meeting, and is able to recognise a
unionist when I see him, I pass “ Hassan ” but I grasp
the hand of four-fifths of the rest of the Melbourne boys.
THE BLOOD-STAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETI N.]
The detectives, in digging up the yard, found a stained
talile-knife.— From the story of the supposed tragedy at
Perth ( W.A.).
That is the one thing needed for the Thrill
To make the people gasp, as people will;
It needs no more ; the stain of Gore —the knife
Wherewith the Miscreant sallied forth to kill.
The Bloodied Garments,, soiled with dew and mould,
The Rusty Axe, the Human Hair unrolled—
The newsboy sings these gruesome things, and they
Bring ecstasy to readers manifold.
A tale of Gashes on the corpse’s brow,
A Suicide depending from the Bough,
Grant these at night by kitchen light, and then
The kitchen-maid has Paradise enow !
The dour Detective sweating o’er his spade
Digs up a Third Edition ready-made :
“ Our readers” groan o’er hunksof bone, andshriek
Until the Analyst has viewed the Blade.
Man asks but little ; say a burglar’s file,
Some few Remains served up in ghastly style,
A little share of Blood-and-Hair, and thus
Will truth please more than fiction for a while.
“ Give us each day, 0 Lord, our daily Gore ;
A little stain of sticky blood- no more.”
Thus every day the papers pray ; and lo .
The Knife brings forth the Blood-stain as before.
VICTORIA.
L.


A Revolution in
Music Publishing'.
The most remarkable value ever given in connection
with first-class music is now being offered in “THE
STRAND MUSICAL PORTFOLIO.” Five favorite
Songs and Pieces of Popular, Select Music are
contained in each part of THE
STRAND
MUSICAL PORTFOLIO
Copyright Song's and Music Only
are included in this splendid work. The first Six Parts
are now on Sale. Here are the Contents of Parts V
and Vl.:
PART V.
Anchored
Michael Watson.
Chanson Riviere
Bertram L’Estrange.
In Memory's Garden
H. G. Pelissier.
Fleur de Jeunesse
Wm. Devin.
My Ain Dear Nell
Theo Bonheur.
PART VI.
Dream Voices
M. Piccolomini.
Estudian tin a
Emile Waldteufel.
Doubting
Reginald Somerville.
The Prehistoric
L. Cavendish Everett.
The Beautiful Land of
Nody By A. H. Behrend.
The Composer of “ Daddy.”
PART VII. Ready Shortly.
Tiik Strand Musical Portfolio” is full music size, well
printed on good paper, and guaranteed correct. The Songs
and Pieces of Music it contains have never before been
published under is. 6d. each, so that this is an offer of
7/6
WORTH OF POPULAR
COPYRIGHT MUSIC FOR
7 d
Of Booksellers, Newsagents and Bookstalls everywhere.
Australasian Agents : Gordon & Gotch. Proprietors; Geo!
Newnes, Ltd., Southampton Street, Strand, London, England.
THE BEARD
ħ
BIOSCOPE
h
Send for List of Films,
Lenses and Accessories
—a Speciality.
is the ideal machine. It has points of
superiority over ah others, and we will
guarantee a machine in daily use for 12
months—always excepting accidents—
that it will wear fairly and honestly in
every part, and the price is
ĥ
£37 lOs.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
REPAIRS.
We have a special staff for these
—send to us—you get your re=
pairs done well & economically.
JERDAN’S,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney,
%
nr-
&
fILCOC
9
SPORTING
REVIEW
Now on Sale at
all Newsagents.
Monthly Magazine Devoted
exclusively to Sport.
Price 3d.
Here are some of the special features of the first number :
BILLIARDS.
George Gray’s Recprd Breaks.
Will Gray Beat Stevenson ?
Interviews with A. Williams, F. Lindrmn and
0. Memmott.
Portraits of George Gray, H. W. Stevenson and
M. Inman.
SWIMMING.
. “ With Beau repairs Abroad,” by R. M. Collins.
Portrait of the World’s Champion.
WANTED, A WHITE CHAMPION.
No. 1
Now
Ready.
Mr. II. D. McIntosh’s Search (or a Boxer to beat Johnson.
TENNIS NOTES, by “ Footfault.” GOLF NOTES, by “ Clubman.”
BOWLS NOTES, by “Discobolus.” Portrait of F. F. Robinson.
CRICKET NOTES, by “ Wicketkeeper.” BRIDGE NOTES, by “ Deuce-Ace."
Motoring, Cycling, Swimming, Boxing, Rowing, Rifle and other
Seasonable Sporting Notes, by well-known contributors.
Get No, 1 from your Newsagent,
PUBLISHING OFFICES :
7 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY; and COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ħ
toe only/
TYRE ; J
BUILT OK
PRINCIPLE/
Nf;
4V*
A.
£»
N® f 1 f
A
(y
<s
&
*X>
v /6x j.y 01
Sr
THE
/ILVERTOWft
/ BUBBEB C
279 GEORGE J T
| yyniAEY
MMel “T” Touring Oar, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 135-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
'
38833?
w:
m
m
m
: : »
SCS»
n*.
WHEN YOU ARE ON A GOOD THING - STICK TO IT
h
IRI
ĥ
S///T6 Woo/.
<%
THE REAL'GOOD TIIING'IN NECKWEAR
66
J 9
Poplin Neckwear is made of Silk and
Wool -in the most fashionable styles—
exquisite blendings of richest tone effects.
“ Will Not Crease” —therefore retains a perfect
surface and shape. All Drapers, Outfitters,
and Storekeepers stock “Iris” Real Poplin
Uncreasable Ties ! “ Ask to see them ! ”
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL MERCERS.


Missing Friends.
IF JOHN DANIEL HEAL, son of the late John Daniel
Heal, of the Prince Consort Hotel, Wickham Street,
Brisbane, Queensland, will communicate with the
undersigned, he will hear of something to his advantage.
Any person knowing the whereabouts of the above person
will please communicate with us.
MacPHERSON, GREEN & MacPHERSON
Solicitors,
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
ABBOTT
AUSTRALIAN FILTERS
1
fru'i'Wfoiacfc
Combined Water Bag- & Filter.
have the highest
approval of the
Board of Health.
WATER BAG
FILTERS
For the Station and
Farm.
Small size, 15/- ea.
Large „ 20/- ea.
We manufacture
all kinds of Filters.
Write for Catalog-.
We advise on all
matters of Filtra-
tion.
N. GUTHRIDGE,
Ltd.,
Manufacturing
Proprietors,
263 George St.,
SYDNEY ;
525 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : .). C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
AN ABSOLUTE SENSATION,
BIGGER THAN THE BIGGEST PANTOMIME.
The Wonderful Drury Lane Drama, by Cecil Raleigh
and Henry Hamilton,
THE WHIP.
Interpreted by A COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY
Specially Selected by Mr. J. C. Williamson.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUR MISS GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
ALACE THE A T R E, S Y D N E Y.
Lessee and Manager: Hugh J. Ward.
EVERY EVENING. The Farcical Success,
THE GIRL FROM R ROTOR’S
Presented by HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY
OF COMEDIANS,
including MISS GRACE PALOTTA.
SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 4,
SEVEN DAYS.
Prices—s/-, 8/-, 2/-, !/• PI in at Elyy’s.
A X MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC BOOM.
NEWCASTLE FROM SATURDAY, JAN 28.
"REVENGE,” "SPIDER AND THE FLY,”
"IN LONDON TOWN.”
Re-appearance of MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY.
Amusements
YPN EY.
SEASON.
ANOTHER BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
THE ENGLISH COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the First
Production in Sydney for a Short Season only of
TOM JONES.
IT IS A REAL COMIC OPERA.
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
CRITERION THEATRE, S
/ Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY., LTD.,
HE
EVERY
1 .YCEUM
EYENINC AT 8
- L.T L.IV ‘ _ . *
MATikels-Wedresdays.Saturdays and Holidays at z 00.
C PENCER'SIHeaTRBCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
T H E
MAORI VILLAGE,
CLONTARF.
MAGGIE PAPAKUIIA.
WEIRD HAKAS, GRACEFUL POI
DANCES, DELIGHTFUL SINGING.
I W A.
PRICES—ONE SHILLING and SIXPENCE.
STEAMERS—FORT MACQUARIE, 2.15, 2.30, 7.45.
SPIT VVIIARF (Adams’ Boatshed and Manly side),
AT FREQUENT INTERVALS.
Tivoli theatre, svdney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
“OUR HEBREW FRIEND,” JULIAN ROSE, Humorist.
SIX AMERICAN DANCERS, Stylish Steppers.
MDLLE. YETTA, Sensational Queen of Wire Walkers.
THE BLESSINGS, Equilibrists and Balancers.
Continued Success of MR. FRANK HARWOOD,.
BABY WATSON, HARRY LINDEN,
WYNNE & BRYAN, HILDA LANE,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Palimr’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FASOLA, Indian Fakir and Illusionist.
KAVANAGH BOYS, Tennis Racquet Jugglers.
COOPER & LAIT, Musical Comedy Artists.
“ BARNOLD’S ANIMAL XOTORS.
, WOODS & FRASER, Comedy Sketch Artists.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
OLGA MONTEZ.
X3T PRICES—3s'., 25., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
The glaciabiu m, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. .trains stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICTURES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
■yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S ENTIRELY NEW
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE GAY GORDONS.
A Fascinating Musical Play, containing the Best
Features of Comic Opera, Pantomime and Comedy.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in a New Version of
THE CHRISTIAN.
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN as GLORY QUAYLE.
MR. ROY REDGRAVE as JOHN STORM.
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES-35., 2s. and Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC CO.
in Frederick Melville’s Great Bedroom Drama,
THE BAD GIRL of THE FAMILY.
Plan at Allan’s. . Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Reserved Seats, 4/-
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Funny
Pantomime,
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
For .which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS,
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been organised
such as has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. . PRICES-5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
ti/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
thf best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
of'ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays,"Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
■DUCKJUMPING. BUCKJUMPING.
Wanted MALE and FEMALE BUCKJUMP RIDERS for
Imperial Colonial Exhibition, London. §]jg""Must be First-Class.
Apply, STATING WAGES PER WEEK, to RETURN FARES PAID.
ALF NEAVE, His Majesty’s Hotel, SYDNEY.
*2
Irofes&orHow&rcl styy.
“TKe principal irvsecl,
&§et\"l in Ike spread ol
•TypKoid islhe cominort
kouse fly "
IMoSQuifoes are
known lo distribute
disease. aerms bur
IKe kouse lly is re<sprd
-ed by scien-
tists <ns Ihe most-„
deadly enemy ol
“
■
H
■
S
IS
>'Cf
OHO.
no
■■* ,
■ -
BY USING
Amusements.
HE GLACIARIU M, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.iN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices-2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees—Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
QPEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. KILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE EOLLIE S
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, 1/-. 6d.
W1RTHS OLYMPIA , i
.EVERY EVENING AT 8
Mati^ees-Wednesdays. Saturdays aid Holidays at 2 30.
5P ENCER'SlHEATRE5C0Pt (?.
PICTURES
o /I PE SUPER. I OP. TO fil.L OTHERS .
Popular Prices —Plan as LIisual.^
Business Announcements.
BS
ħ
THE
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99-101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
THREE WITCHES
cigarettes:
M
m
DORRIS'S
rrecWtches
ci#A*tm» wn
erwiof^
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
ONCE
USED
ALWAYS
USED
The Dalli
For Household Use. —To use it is the
best, most simple, and most comfortable vay
of ironing Independent of stove and gas, it
can be used anywhere. Non-inflammable
fuel withoui noxious fumes. No risk from
fire ; healthier and safer than any other iron.
For light work and travelling only, The
“D ALLIN ETTE,” a smaller “ Dalli.”
For general household w6rk use the “Dalli.’
Having a larger ironing surface, and greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Of all Storekeepers. Stocked by—
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Beware of worthless^tfHitations^^^^^^
What the Anglican Church outside England
mostly wants is bishops’ graves. According to
“ Whitaker,” there were 36 retired bishops living
in England at the beginning of 1910. They in-
cluded ex-Gaiters from Natal, Sydney, Nassau,
Korea, Rockhampton, Hokkaido, Mashonaland,
Cape Town, Melbourne, Travancore, Singapore,
Sierra Leone, Calcutta (two), Rangoon, Bathurst,
Antigua, Tasmania, Barbadoes, M.id-China, Bom-
bay, Honduras, Zanzibar, Mauritius, the Falk-
lands, Waiapu, Ballarat and Papua. One great
reason why Anglicanism makes slow progress in
Greater Britain is that it imports its Leggings,
and the imported Leggings make little secret of
the fact that they don’t consider Greater Britain
lit to live in or good enough to die in. The R.C.
prelate mostly lies down and perishes beside his
job, wherever his job may be, and that is part of
the strength of the creed of the Seven Hills.
An attempt is to be made, by the running
of motor omnibuses, to put off the evil and
costly day when Sydney must be reconstructed.
Sydney has no main line of railway through the
city, no overhead railways, no underground rail-
ways, no suburban lines except in a very limited
sense, no harbor tunnels and no harbor bridges.
Its streets have to carry everything. All of them
that are fitted for tramcars, and some that are
not fitted, have tramcars in them already
—about as many as they can hold. But
the new motor ’bus is to bump where
even the agile trarncar fears to tread, and
will strive to drag some of the traffic into
the less frequented by-ways. Whenever it
sees a corner it will turn it. Its route will be up
the lane at the back of Murphy’s terrace, down
the lane at the back of McPherson’s cottages,
past Smith’s ash-barrel, and round at the side of
Ferguson’s pub, and over the top of Jones’s dog,
and along the outskirts of Briggs’s greengrocery.
It will babble o’er the pebbles beside Ah
Foo’s rear gate and past his rejected vege-
tables, and it will chatter as it flows uphill
on the cobble-stones towards forgotten rookeries
of old Sydney, and it will bang downhill in the
twilight of crooked alleys which were historical
in days when history and flogging were convert-
ible terms. On wet nights it will look, as it flees
along dark streets, like a belated caravan or the
Coach of Death that Will Ogilvie wrote about;
and on dark nights its search-light, as it turns out
of Bilker’s Alley, will shine like a good deed in a
bad land. It all sounds like a heroic attempt to
postpone that reconstruction job which grows
dearer with every year of postponement; but even
if the motor-’bus falls down hill on its ear unto
70 times seven it will never be more than a
postponement.
There is only one infallible way of finding the
correct road all over Sydney, and that- is to take a copy
of “Wilson’s Sydney and Suburbs Street Director and
Blue Mountain Guide,” which fits easily in the pocket.
Then you’re safe. The street index tells you what suburb
to make for, and the 60 maps show you how to get there.
There is a special directory of the arcades, banks,
chambers, clubs, and commercial buildings. The list of
consular representatives is complete and somewhat in-
teresting, as it discloses that Liberia has a representative
in Sydney, likewise Panama. Panama’s consul is the
Honorable Audley Coote ; address, “try 988 Athenaeum
Club.” The “try” is excellent. The Blue Mountain
section of the work is modelled on the same lines. Alto-
gether nearly 500 pages of useful information are squeezed
into this handy pocket volume.*


Seasonable
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents lor AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
Valuable alike the Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys* Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
h
ĥ
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
UNDER VICE-REGAL
The Misses Isaacs,
PATRONAGE.
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 213 S Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention,
h
Hade in
England
TRADE
My VW
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only ;
I. & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
j London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
c
m
m
t
Sr
$g
i
r/r
wry
H,r
mm
YSTERY
1
111
A
r-4
13
IRT/i
i
A Real Novelty!
The Glowing', Electrically-iignted Bouquet or Scarf Pin.
Shines with a beautiful radiance. Will astonish everybody. Electric
light supplied through pocket. Generator shown in the next
picture. Any of these handsome Pin Designs or the Bouquet
Is. 9d. Post Free.
V t
VSi.
THE WONDERFUL PLATE LIFTER.
Write for
Free
Catalogue
of
Wonderful
Conjuring
Trioks,
Surprises
and
Novelties.
Full
Instructions
how to
become a
Wizard.
VEST-POCKET ELECTRIC
GENERATOR.
For lighting- Electric Scarf Pins oi
Bouquet. Also used as a Search-
light. Very handy, reliable and well
finished.
Price 3/6 Post Free.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite unexpectedly as they sit at meals,
cause—works quite imperceptibly from other end of the table. Shrieks of laughter.
No one can see th e
1/- Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET',
Also at 111 KING STREET
& 26-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
m\
• •
The most healthy drink in
•». hot weather.—
‘Montserraf
LIME JUICE
is a pure natural fruit juice which cools
and purifies the system; it is free from
alcoholic risk. The children love it.
SUPPLIED IN TWO FORMS-
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice. Sweetened, i.e. Lime Juice Cordial.
rtiPERWfc^J;
</jl
v. • '/-
9<■ V
to
fK
c 4‘
■2,*
lh-
iQ-svtS'Z
Good Day Sir,
Ifyou please could you/ef me
ha\/e some of your fine Wool
for The Australian Knitting
. Mills 'pure Woollen
Under Wear
Absolutely PURE
WOOL Underwear
for Australian Men,
Women U Children.
GUARANTEED UNSHRINKABLE.
“MADE IN AUSTRALIA.”
See that our Registered Trade Mark, “ GOLDEN FLEECE/' is on every garment.
STOCKED BY ALL REPUTABLE RETAIL HOUSES.
If not obtainable locally, communicate with us direct.
Made in our own Mills, Richmond, Victoria,
Sole Proprietors :—
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS, LTD.
t/.
5 XtS:
u
THE
gUNYIP"
Forest Devil.
HOW A LADY WORKED
THE “DEVIL.”
PANTON HILL,
Messrs. J. COOPER & SONS, 17th October, 1910.
Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —Just a few lines to let you know how we are getting along with the Bunyip
Forest Devil father bought from you three weeks ago. Father says it is the BEST
MACHINE HE HAS EVER USED, and, he has seen and used a good many, and is very
pleased with it. I must let you know a lutle what we have done with it. Our trees are
mostly white gum, box, and messmate. We have uprooted trees that were 4ft. (iin. in
diameter, or so thick that the anchor rope was just big enough to go round them, with only
father and myself on the lever. There was one giant that, when I said to pull it, father
seemed very doubtful, and told me to wait until my brothers came home from school; but I
said, “ Put the ropes on ” ; and both of us got on the lever, and, in a short time, out came the
monster,with roots in the air, and made a hole not less than sft. deep and 12ft. wide. We
had not seen a tree pulled like it. Father would not have the hole filled up, but lets it stop
there so people can see WHAT A POWERFUL MACHINE THE “BUNYIP” IS. I
have PULLED TREES MYSELF, about 2ft. in diameter, without any help. Some of our
trees are dead about five years, and the roots are mostly green, and bring up a great lot of
soil, but it is all the same. THE GREEN ONES COME OUT JUST AS EASY AS THE
DEAD ONES.. There is NO STOPPING when once the “ Devil” catches hold of them—
THEY HAVE TO COME WITH THE BUNYIP. Wishing you every success in the
future, yours truly, (Signed) MARIA NOTSCHALL.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. 4216
Stevens’ “ FA VO RITE, ”
22 W.R.F.. or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, takedown action, open front and rear sights,
weight 4ilb. Postage—l/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear, 3716.
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each
extra.
“ The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
251
35/-
c\^
Send for our Illustrated Sports,
Fishing and Tobacco Lists, FREE.
••The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end, weight 12-gauge, about 71b., 16-gauge, about 6|lb. Delivered, £3/15/“
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain / 197 Oxford St.,
Sydneys Church St., Parramatta; 113 King St., Newtown. r 2
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Bach head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre ct Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
Method of advertising, with the object of making our name more widely known, and to intro duce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO OO IS THIS :
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S*R*L*A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co., Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the BankofN.S.W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 2/6,
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
accept this reward for your services for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (Bank N.S.W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 100 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correot answers in the orderin which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach U 3 before the closing date, and be correct according to our conditions, and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady’s or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B.—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POSTCARD C 0„ HtJN s T Y E D^ s B T v REBT ’
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I acoept as final and legally binding.
Signed .
Address
Date
£5
What You Get~ Not What You I>lv COUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Built by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
ĥ
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU?
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
eltonian
PASTE.
In’ BLACK and BROWN.
The best and also the cheapest
PASTE POLISH on the market
for cleaning, polishing, and
preserving all kinds of Leather
Boots, Shoes, Harness, &c.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
I
& PAStE-
&Y
t BROWN
at THCIA MtXTOHWkH feLACKIHC *N AWWfACTOCH
7 C.ARKI CKS T LONDON VV. C
L f* »*R*S,3* RWC BLWCERE. «■> i
aaiiteg!
-> Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON
(Blacking and Boot Polish)
' Manufacturers,
LTD., LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ħ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
It IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete,, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
prBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modf.rn Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. ' Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gat Count, Is 3d. French
Self TaUght, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
+
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf.’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget SOng
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music Com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


h
PROSTRATED BY
EBILITY
MAN'S THREE YEARS’ SUFFERING FROM GENERAL WEAK-
NESS, LOSS OF APPETITE, ETC., ENDED BY BILE BEANS.
nR. T. RAFTER, of 4 Quarry Street, St. Peters, Sydney, says
“For three years I have been a sufferer from general weak-
ness, loss of appetite, lack of energy, listlessness, etc., causing me
extreme lassitude and impairment of health. I was attended by two
different doctors, and both of them told me that X was not likely to
get any relief, as my condition had become chronic.
“ One day £ accidentally came across an empty Bile Bean box, and I
thereupon made up my mind to purchase a box of Bile Beans and give
them a trial. The results have proved so satisfactory that now I would
not have any other medicine. I have been undergoing a course of Bile
Beans for the last six months, and they have done me great good.
My general health has improved in every way, and my bodily weight
increased almost daily In conclusion, lam extremely glad that I
happened on Bile Beans, and you may use my statements as above for
the benefit of other sufferers.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE .
When the liver Is sluggish the whole system is upset, causing headaches, constipation
and biliousness. Now, Bile Beans 6tir up the liver to healthy action, purify the blood,
strengthen the digestive organs, and banish the cause of the many stomach disorders
which make both men and women unfit for the daily work at this season. Bile Beans end
Indigestion, constipation, biliousness, bad breath, headache, that tired feeling, lassitude,
debility and all stomach and liver complaints. Sold by all stores and chemists at
Is. 14d. and 2s. 9d. per box (contains three times the Is. lAd.).
ea/is
Woushess
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving' the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Xbis Has been tbe
acknowledged' and Honoured
position Held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Nancy’s Hat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A mile of headgear in the street !
A thousand maids in long array,
With dimpled smile and tripping feet,
Make laughter on the pavement grey ;
A flash of glory through the throng,
I watch and thrill; small wonder that
I snatch my harp and break in song
To swell the praise of Nancy’s hat.
It is not of its size I sing.
Nor of the flowers that deck the crown,
’Tis trimmed with neither rose nor wing,
No beauty-drapings hold it down ;
But cheery is the crimson gleam,
And pleasant is the saucy set,
A hat to light a poet’s dream
Across the fields of Old Regret.
Twin gleaming hatpins, sharp and bright,
A hidden place of gladness share
Amid that envy of Old Night,
The splendid darkness of her hair,
And, placed above the foremost braid,
A task is set the brim up-curled,
From sun and peering looks to shade
The blackest eyes in all the world.
A mile of headgear in the street !
But one red hat went by to-day,
And all the airs were sunny sweet,
And all the paths we trod were gay.
Our lives are somewhat dull and brown,
The music of the times goes flat,
But meadow fairies dance in town
When George-street gleams with Nancy’s
hat.
n.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.
Churt’s Volcano.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ f 1 HERE he is! ” cried one of the passen-
gers, suddenly steadying the slow sweep
of his binoculars over the quiet sea.
The islet, which had swiftly grown from a dark
blur on the blue horizon to a thing of sharp peaks
and brilliant greens set in a ring of white surf,
was now close on the port bow. On the tall cliff
of this sharp volcanic upthrust we could make out
a village of native huts grouped about a European
house that faced a flagstaff. All the rest was
cocoanut palms.
Our eyes followed the passenger’s pointing
finger ; and in a few minutes we made out a black
head bobbing in the sea close ahead of the steamer.
It belonged to the native who had swum out to get
the mail—probably the most irregular postal de-
livery in the world. The rockbound islet afforded
nolanding-place, and, except for the occasional call
of a, trading schooner, its only chance of communi-
cation with the world lay in the infrequent pas-
sing of the steamer.
As we drew abreast of the bobbing head, the
third officer, standing aft, dropped a kerosene tin
overboard. It contained a few letters and all the
spare magazines and newspapers that were on
board. As we rounded the point we saw the
swimmer reach the floating tin and turn for his
hour’s swim back to the only civilisation he knew.
“Curious fellow, that planter,” remarked the
captain thatevening in the smoking-room. “Curi-
ous story they tell about him. His name’s
Churt”
The second officer appeared at the door, and one
look at him brought the captain to his feet with
an “Excuse me, gentlemen ! ” and he left us for
the bridge.
“Awkward navigation about here,” remarked
The Man Who Kqew. “Reefs sticking out
everywhere.”
The men went back to ecarte and bridge ; but
the captain did not return. Hervey, the trader,
strolled in too late to make up a four. The In-
terminable Tourist turned to him.
“ Captain was just starting to tell us about that
fellow—Churt, he said his name was. Curious
story it was, too, he said.”
“ What, Churt? That chap who was up here?”
said Hervey. “I know all about him. Every-
body in the Islands does. Why, he came up in
the same boat as me six years ago. Yes, it is
rather a curious story.”
He looked round. The Journalist pressed the
button. Pipes were relit. The card-players
turned a little in their seats so as to keep an
eye on Hervey. Their voices softened. Hervey
began.
“ He was a journalist, a reporter on some way-
back Maoriland paper, who had broken down
through overwork—nerves all gone—sent the
round trip to recuperate. Don’t know what
caused his breakdown, but suspect it must have
been “copy’ on the brain. A great, lank, gaunt
chap, over 6ft. high, and as awkward-looking as
his shorthand notes. Never saw a man so keen
on getting information. He was the living embodi-
ment of the journalistic instinct. The first night he
hitched on to me on deck, and in three minutes he
had produced abulky packageof typewritten litera-
ture, which he informed me were the instructions
given him by his editor, inquiries that he had to
make, titles of articles to write up. You see,
newspapers are not quite philanthropists; this
trip was to combine health with business, and the
paper did not stand to lose much if Churt filled
in one-quarter of his voluminous instructions. I
know the Islands off by heart, but that editor-
fellow, somewhere in the backblocks of 'Tara-
naki, had thought out questions that you could
only find in a census paper. And Churt had the
enthusiasm of an insurance agent. Before I
dropped to it, he had started interviewing me.
He wanted to know my views upon missionaries,
and consuls and German methods in Samoa—
simple, innocuous trifles like that. I got scared.
There’s a lot of interesting things that happen
in the Islands, but they’re not the sort of
thing you want to write about. There are secrets
of the Pacific that are held in a kind of free-
masonry among us all. On a trip like this some-
times these things get partially discussed, but
not—perhaps you’ve noticed ?—when journalists
are about. Except our friend over there, who
knows the difference between things that can be
printed and things that can’t.”
“The difference between fiction and truth?”
queried the Journalist with a smile. Somehow, it
seemed to me, the Journalist was not taking
Hervey or his yarn quite seriously. There was a
polite look of disbelief in his eyes. I wondered if
he had known Churt, too.
“ What sort of fellow did you say he was ? ” he
asked carelessly.
“Thin as a lath and angular as a telegraph
pole,” said Hervey. “Didn’t I mention it ? ”
“ How tall ? ” persisted the Journalist.
“ Over six feet, I should say, by an inch. Know
him, by the way ? ” |
Tire Journalist shook his head, and sank back
, comfortably into the corner of his seat. And as I
watched him I saw a secretive little smile twitch
the corners of his thin lips.
“Funny thing, though,” resumed Hervey, un-
conscious of that mocking scrutiny, “as soon as
the ship touches Sydney or Auckland wharves
the people who know these yarns shut up. Seems
to me that those tin discs on the ships’ cables stop
the leakage of more important things than plague
rats.
“ Well, about Churt. He had never left his
wayback township before, and this was a new and
miraculous world to him. He was mad with the
delight of the tropics, raved over the brilliant
greens of the coral shallows, the clean yellow of
the beaches, the spurts of white where the rollers
blow off through the reefs—you know that sort of
thing. Yet there were limitations to his enthusi-
asm. We would be standing by the taffrail at night,
looking down at the phosphorescence over the
ship’s side. ‘ Wonderful!’ he would say. ‘ It’s
like a motor-veil of silver floating away in the
wind. Do you know anything about ferro-
concrete ? ’
“You see, it was that cursed itch for ‘ copy ’
that would get him. Well, I’d tell him how many
wharves of ferro-concrete there were in the I
Pacific, and their cost, and resistent qualities, and ;
down it would all go on the back of a menu-card.
Then one day we were ashore, strolling beneath
the palms, and he came running back after having
‘snapped’ a native backyard, and looked up at
the leaning palms and listened to the steady
evening breeze singing through them, and asked:
“ ‘ And how many cocoanuts do you get on an
average from one palm, and what is the percent-
age weight of copra from one cocoanut and per
acre, and how long is it before you begin to get a
return for your money, and is there any trade in
copra to Japan ? ’
“He made me tired. I’ve known men to go to
the bad through a thirst for whisky, but Churt
had a more deadly thirst. He had come up for
his health, and all the time he was interview-
ing planters and consuls and native chiefs ; and in
the ports he always had a magistrate or a missionary
or a beachcomber to dinner with him. So we all
filled him with yarns till our inventive faculties
dried up; and he took it all confidingly down and
spent half the night writing out our casual lies.
Yet I believe it was that thirst that kept him
alive.
“It was in Samoa that his trouble came. At
the Tongan ports, just as on this trip, we had
gone ashore and done the usual tourist things—
paid calls on the chiefs, and drunk kava, and got the
girls to sing us their songs and dance their dances
and all that. But Churt never came with us; he
was always away investigating copra and consuls
and ferro-concrete. But after one of our evenings
in Samoa the fellows got talking, and Churt sat
hunched up in the corner surreptitiously taking
notes.
“ Suddenly, with eyes alight, he broke in :
“ ‘ I say, there ought to be lots of copy in that!
Wait a minute.’ He hastily referred to his bulky
roll of instructions. ‘ H’m—native life in Samoa?
Don’t think I’ve got anything to investigate
about that. Still it ought to make a rattling
“special.” If you’re going ashore to-morrow
night, I’d like to come along. I’ve got to dine
with a barber chap in Apia who used to cut
Stevenson’s hair—he ought to have a lot df good
literary copy. But I’ll come along after.’
“So he came along after. We had had a big
function at a chief’s house—dancing by taipo
girls, with gorgeous scarlet flowers hung at^«io
them, and head dresses that made them
look like great insects with long quivering
antennae, and glistening skins, and a good
deal of realism thrown in. Churt came too
late to see the show; but he gloriously didn’t
care. The barber had told him exactly how
R.L.S. liked his hair trimmed.
“Two of us walked home with Churt. It was
a brilliant moonlight night, and the black shadows
of the big trees lay like pools of ink on the road.
As we were passing one of the native villages, the
huts now silent and without a light, Churt stopped
and turned. To our ears came the sound of a
mouth-organ! Samoa and moonlight and - a
mouth-organ ! These three, so strangely con-
joined, wrought Churt’s undoing. We turned
with him, and in the moonlight in front of one of
the big native huts we saw three girls dancing,
while an older woman woke to beauty the crude
harmonies of a mouth-organ. We stood and
watched.
“ Quito unconscious of our presence, the three
slim brown figures poSed and glided with dreamy
movements and little chuckles of girlish delight.
The moonlight, swathed them about as with a
silver veil of fantasy. (Excuse the imagery ; but
I’m only quoting from the article in which Churt
subsequently embalmed this precious experience
in the Bipikiki Pioneer.) But even to a hard-
ened old trader like me, those delightfully
unconscious figures, wholly absorbed in their
swaying dance, as if hypnotised by its entranee-
rnent, seemed the beautiful unreal figures from
some old fairy story. Unaware, we had come upon
the brown dryads of a bygone time. We were
peering in upon the secrets of a far-off, joyous
world, Wherein was no thought of shame. (That’s
Churt’s ‘special j again!) We 11... we shame-
lessly peered.
“ * Here!’ Churt hoarsely said. ‘l’m going to
see it through. I must! ’
“He started off across the clearing. We had
to follow.
“The mouth-organ melody—one of those old
Samoan chants—died in the middle of its refrain.
The three swaying figures stiffened, glancing at
us with frightened looks. Three grotesque men
from the twentieth century tramped with heavy
boots into the moon-laved realm of fairyland. (I
suspect-that’s Churt, too !)
“It didn’t take us long to convince the little
girls that we merely wished to watch them dance.
There was a quick, nervous, whispered colloquy,
four pairs of inquisitive eyes scanned us, and then
the elder woman sent one of the girls into the hut
to bring mats for their distinguished visitors. So,
with many polite protestations, we were solemnly-
installed, and the dance began again. It was not
so innocently joyous, so delightfully unconven-
tional, as when we had watched unseen. The
heavy boots of the nineteenth century had trodden
on the toes of the fairies. (More Churt! I’ve got
his article in my notebook.) But it was very
charming. I had seen dozens of ceremonial dances,
performed by the chiefs’ fat oil-smeared taipo girls;
but this was a less ceremonial dance of their own
—mere youth and happiness expressing itself in an
almost unconscious rhythm. (Churt!) So they
danced and laughed and sang, and we sat and
applauded, and the minutes went by.
“ Suddenly I became conscious that the tune of
(Continued on next page.)


HAVE YOU
KIDNEY TROUBLE
HOW TO TELL.
Does every cold affect the
back, causing chilliness,
uneasiness, or pain ? Are there urinary troubles, sediment,
gravel, pains in the sides or loins ? Do you suffer from
dizziness, rheumatism, headache, neuralgia? Is the skin
sallow, the flesh swollen and flabby, the sight dim ? Are
you easily worried or tired out? Do you get depressed
and hopeless ? Health depends on the kidneys. Look
i m
y
9
V
/
* Every picture tells a story. M
after them, and
when yon do not
feel as well as
you ought give
your kidneys
help, in Doan’s
Backache Ki d-
ney Pills. This
medicine is
special kidney
help; all its
healing powers
go to the kid-
neys. It aids the
kidneys in their
great work, it
soothes and
heals the tired
kidney mem-
branes, dissolves
crystallised uric
acid, and keeps
the body free
from kid ne y
poisons. Your
neighbors —Syd-
ney peop 1 e —
have been cured
to stay cured by
Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.
Sydney Man Cured.
Mr. Walter Niddrie, 88 Buckland Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
sa y S : —“ J suffered terribly with my kidneys. The worst symptoms
were backache and rheumatism. Sometimes I would be doubled up
with the pain, and unable to do any work. Reading of a similar
case being cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I got some, and
before I had used them long I was quite free of the pain. Previous
to using the pills I would often sit down, and it would, be fully 10
minutes before 1 could get up again to a standing position. I was
unable to stoop down to lace my boots. lam quite free of the
pains now, and ■ I consider that without Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills I would have had to give up my billet.”
Ten years later, Mrs. Niddrie says : —“ My husband has been
free of backache and rheumatism ever since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured him 10 years ago.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d
per bottle (6 bottles 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
1
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS I
ECZEMA CURED.
Mrs. J. Fletcher, 19 Elizabeth Street.
North Sydney, says “For some months.l
suffered with Eczema, which broke out on
my legs and arms. The irritation was so
dreadful at night that I could not sleep. I
used a great number of remedies, but none
of them gave me any ease. I commenced to
think that there was no cure for Eczema,
but a treatment of Doan’s Ointment proved
that I was wrong in this. The first applica-
tion gave me ease, and a few pots cured me.
To all who suffer with Eczema I recommend
Doan’s Ointment.”
Mrs. Fletcher makes a second statement:
“ It is now four years since Doan’s Oint-
ment curejd me of Eczema, and I have never
had a sign of the ailment since. I will
always praise. Doan’s Ointment for my quick
and hrstipg ”
Mrs. G-. Stewart, 67 Ferry Road, Glebe
Sydney, writes:—“For 12 months I was
troubled with Eczema. It was only a small
spot, but it was itchy and annoying. I was
anxious for a cure, for I was afraid that it
may spread. I used ointments and skin
remedies, but they were ineffectual. When
a friend told me how good Doan’s Ointment
was lat once sent off for a pot. This was
the first remedy to give me relief. I had
only used it a few times when the irritation
stopped, and continuing the treatment, it
cured me. I waited to see if it were a
cure, or only a temporary relief, before
writing, but a year has gone by, and I am
still free of the ailment, so can safely say I
am cured for good.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and storekeepers, at 2s. 9d. per pt>t, or m
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co, 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
the mouth-organ had changed. I looked over my
shoulder to find the woman vainly protesting
while Churt gave the dancers selections from ‘The
Geisha ’on the mouth-organ. Then he got awk-
wardly up on to his legs, and still playiftg the
mouth-'otgan, solemnly piroutted among the girls.
In a moment he had seized the prettiest girl round
the waist, and the music changed to a waltz as he
swung her round. For a few steps her naked feet
hesitated in the new measure, but beneath the
guidance of his masterful long arm her lithe body
swiftly seized upon the new rhythm, and in a few
minutes the two were waltzing under the moon-
light. We laughed and laughed; but Ohurt’s
frown never relaxed. He had to keep on with the
music and pilot that clinging slim little con-
fiding figure in this strange white-man’s siva-siva,
and he had no time for distractions.
“ When, to our tremendous applause, Churt sat
down, I noted that he kept his partner’s little
brown hand in his, and his long arm absent-
mindedly remained about her waist. The elder
woman had vanished before the conclusion of
Churt’s ‘turn.’ It occurred to me that it was
time to go.
“The girls insisted on accompanying us as far
as the beach. Churt led the way, still with his
arm about his partner’s waist. And, as appar-
ently our little ladies had their own ideas as to
the correct Samoan behavior, we found soft little
brown hands thrust in ours, and softer brown
forms snuggling against our arms. So—a pitiable
sight for those who believe in a White Australia
—we six strolled down the shadow-blotched road
to the beach.
“Conversation with my little lady was difficult.
Her English words were almost as scarce as her
clothes ; and in those days I did not know more
than a dozen words of Samoan. However, we
exchanged our ideas upon the moon, life, choco-
lates, boots, mouth-organs, Churt and love. Then
we lapsed into a confidential silence, and I found
that we had come up to Churt and his girl. And
this is the conversation we unblushingly over-
heard as we strolled, soft-footed, behind them on
the little shadowed path.
“ The girl looked deeply into Churt’s eyes and
whispered something about love ; and Churt, with
a passionate gaze, replied : ‘Yes, that’s the
British consul’s over there. I got yards of copy
out of him this afternoon about trade with Aus-
tralia, and Vavua as a Pacific station for the
British fleet, and the wreck on the reef, and the
comparative frequency of hurricanes.’
“The little girl snuggled closer, puzzled, but
happy.
“Then he remarked: ‘I wonder what they
pave these roads with ?’
“ The little girl gurgled.
“‘You don't know what it costs a mile—this
road paving?’ He stopped to examine it. The
girl thoughc he was going to kiss her, and got
ready. Churt moved on. She whispered some-
thing seductive in his ear, pulling his tall, lank
form down to her pretty childish face.
“Churt shook his head impatiently. ‘You
don’t happen to know the price of copra?’ he
asked, anxiously.
“The girl saw our shadows, and whipped that
compromising little brown arm of hers away.
“Our triple good-byes were almost formal; but
we all fervently promised to come and dance an-
other siva-siva the next evening, knowing, of
course, that by that time we would be on our way
to Savaii. So we got Churt aboard undamaged,
and sat up in the morning discussing Samoa and
the Samoans. Churt wanted to rush off and write
up the reflections of Stevenson’s barber, but two
stiff whiskies settled him comfortably in a deck-
chair. Then Churt began to soliloquise. He had
forgotten all about copy—for the first time in his
life.
“ ‘ What a world it is—what a wonderful world !
You look up the map, and all you see are
a few tiny dots spattered across the blue
ocean; and yet those few dots might be
parts of another planet, so different, so beauti-
ful is their life. All the Socialists of our
world are straining, struggling after happiness;
all our legislators are working towards an ideal;
all our nations are fighting for something different,
something more sensible than this confused welter
of industrialism—and right here, in their midst,
there’s that dim ideal, that happiness, that life
beautiful—life as it is meant to be lived. No
worry, no futile ambitions, no class bitterness, no
starvation, no unhappiness. It seems to me that
the world has made an enormous mistake; all
these centuries it has been fighting to learn how
to live —and Samoa has settled it centuries ago !
The temperate climates are only the back yards
of civilisation ; and I’m not going back to the
back yards now I’ve found the front door. Life
was given us to live —not to serve a life-sentence
at. Lord, these Samoans know ! This is the sort
of paradise I’ve always vaguely dreamed of; but,
like a fool, I never thought of looking for it on
this earth. And now I’ve got in you don’t get me
out. Copy! I believe I used to live for copy.
But now ! ’
“ He flung out his big awkward hands, throw-
ing it for ever from him. In my imagination I
seemed to hear the splash of it as he flung it over-
board. And in my heart I felt the pain that
comes when you watch a man going inevi-
tably, deliberately wrong—as I’ve seen many a
better man go wrong in the Islands. There’s a
spell they work on certain natures. This easy-
going life of drift calls to the sleeping savage in
all of us, and sometimes he wakes and stirs and
takes charge—and God help that man then !
There are charming men living in the Islands
married to native wives. If you saw the wives
to-day you’d wonder why. It’s magic, black
magic, brown magic—and there’s not one of us
that it couldn’t capture. And these men live on
forgotten islands with their brown and brownish-
white and cream-colored children —all grades, like
a paint-maker’s colored catalogue. Gone under
.. . gone under ! And now it was Churt. He
had thrown himself overboard with his copy. I
knew it was no use to argue with him. He had
heard the syrens singing. He was done.
“So he prattled on, telling us about the life he
meant to lead, on some little island of his own,
with his little brown wife, and the world forgot.
He would grow cocoanuts, perhaps, just to keep
himself interested ; but all you had to do was to
wait and pick ’em up when they fell on you. . . .
“Next morning he went early ashore. Our
boat was to start in the afternoon, and at lunch
he told us he was going to leave us. He muttered
something vague about ‘a scoop,’ and something
equally unsatisfactory about copy. We shook our
heads, and let him go. There was a set, tense
look in his face that I had only seen before When
he was keen on copy. And now he had done with
copy. He was quietly writing the closing chapter
of his life.
“So we left him in the launch, standing gaunt
and lank and stern among his baggage, and he
waved us a cheerful farewell.”
There was a silence in the smoke-room as
Hervey paused to fill his pipe.
The Journalist leant forward. There was a
mischievous look in his eyes.
“So that was the end of him?” he smiled.
“That little island in the Pacific that we passed
to-day? But the easy life with his native wife
must have softened him, I fancy. I got a glimpse
of him through my Zeiss as we passed, and he
seemed more than comfortably stout. He
paused meaningly; then with a look at Hervey
that was a direct thrust. “ And not more than
five feet high ! So this chap, Churt you know
you insisted on his tallness —must have shrunken,
too ! ”
Hervey met the challenge of our eyes with an
uncomprehending stare. . „
“Who said that he was on that island? he
asked at last.
“You did ! ’’ came from several lips.
“No!”
“ Why,” said the Journalist, “ the captain was
just starting to tell us the story of that chap on
the island—he told us his name was Ohurt—when
he had to go out, and you very kindly took on the
yarn. It’s rather a pity, Hervey, that you weren t
a journalist ! ”
“ But it wasn’t that Churt I was talking about
at all—if his confounded name is Churt, too,”
protested Hervey. “I just caught,the name, and
everybody in the Islands knows that name ; so I
naturally thought it was his yarn. I’m sorry if
I’ve misled you, gentlemen.”
“ Ah, here’s the captain,” said the Interminable
Tourist, as a big figure stood in the door. “ Cap-
tain, what’s that yarn you were going to spin
about that fellow Churt?”
The captain seemed at a loss. “Churt?” he
said. “I don’t remember”
“The man on that island we passed to-day.'’
“Ah, that’s not Churt,” laughed the captain.
“ That’s a planter named Churt-Kempsie. You
couldn’t have caught the name right. Oh, yes. I
was called out just as I was beginning. That ex-
plains it. Well, there’s nothing much about
Churt-Kempsie. Curious name, though, isn’t it?
He’s just one of the clerks in the U.P. Trading
Company. They take it in turns to put in six
months on that island. It’s pretty lonesome, but
it grows good copra. So every six months they
exchange one of the clerks in Apia for the one
they left there. Churt-Kempsie hasn’t been thefe
for a week yet. What was curious about him is a
divorce case that he was mixed up in. But I’ll tell
you about it some other night. By the way, as
you’ve got hold of Churt’s name, he’s got a curious
story. But Hervey, over there, can tell you all
about that; he knows it all first hand.”
“ I’ve just been telling them,” laughed Hervey.
“Well, it was a pretty big ‘scoop,’ as I think
you call it,” said the captain, turning to the
Journalist. “ That Churt wasn’t quite the fool he
looked.”
“But what?” I asked. “Didn’t Churt marry
the native girl and settle down on some land of his
own?”
The captain exploded with laughter.
“I hadn’t quite finished my yarn, captain,”
Hervey interposed. “You know, gentlemen,
that that morning in Apia Churt had come across
a cocoa planter from Savaii. And it was the copy
he got from that planter that made him take his
baggage ashore.”
“ But what was it? ”
The Journalist slowly smiled. “Volcano? ”he
interrogated Hervey.
“Yes,” said Hervey. “It was the thirst for
copy that saved him, after all. Just a few scared
remarks from that German planter—he’d only
come in from Savaii that morning, and he was
mighty glad to see Apia ! He told Churt about
certain curious little earthquakes in his valley in
Savaii —it grew the best cocoa in the Islands —and
strange little rumblings under his feet, quite
different from ordinary earthquakes. This seemed
a special little earthquake, that never went out-
side the valley, and, as, after a week, it had
shaken his house to pieces and all his laborers had
fled, and the village was deserted, he thought it
was time to make for some place that seemed a
little more solid. And Churt gave a gasp and
reckoned he was called for. I put it down to that
marvellous instinct for copy; but they say that
down in Maoriland they are so used to earthquakes
and volcanoes and geysers and blow-ups generally
that Churt must have had an expert knowledge
of seismic disturbances. But I bet drinks that
10 professors of geology wouldn’t have hopped on
to the explanation quicker, nor so joyously started
out to sit on the safety-valve as Churt did.
What he saw, with that uncanny instinct of
his, was a new volcano that was due to make
its first appearance on the stage at any moment.
And there aren’t so many volcanoes in the world
not to make a new one worth looking up. So he
hired the planter’s schooner and went back that
evening, and camped near the deserted ruins
waiting for the performance to commence. They
say he made careful measurements and pitched his
camp just over the biggest vibrations. He wanted
to get a front seat.
“ Well, he was in time. He escaped up the
valley-side when the overture began ; but he got
a series of snapshots of which copies are filed in
every seismic observatory in the world. And the
new volcano turned out to be quite a sizable vol-
cano, too. When we go on deck I’ll show you the
steam rising from the lava streams as they pour
into the sea ; it’s been in full working order for
six years. Well, Churt was sitting on top of that
volcano when it began to peck at its shell, and he
took down everything it said in shorthand. He’d
even got a gramophone at work. He said the
thing spoke so loudly that he couldn’t get down
all its remarks any other way.
“It was Churt, then, who wired the account of
the eruption to London ? ” asked the Journalist.
“It was ‘from our special correspondent in
Savaii,’ though ? ”
“Churt constituted himself a special corre-
spondent on the spot. He wasn’t going to
waste his pet volcano on the Pipiriki Pioneer.
He sent ’em a duplicate wire, of course ; but the
day it arrived the Mayor of Pipiriki was sum-
moned for letting his goat stray into the Council
Chambers—it ate up the minutes of the last Road
Board meeting—and the editor had no room for
volcanoes. So he cursed a bit at Ohurt for wast-
ing his paper’s money over a tin-pot eruption,
and came out with three columns about the
Mayor’s goat. It was a great journalistic achieve-
ment —for Pipiriki; but the London Times gave
some space to Churt’s volcano. You’ll see it, by
the way, in the morning. It’s up several thou-
sand feet now ; all ashes and lava that it spewed
up in the middle of that valley. The cocoa-
plantation is half a mile under, and all the
villages covered with lava. Churt told me that
twice during the bombardment he lost a lot of
shorthand notes, and a red-hot brick nearly wiped
the gramophone out. But he stuck there till he
felt he could leave his volcano in steady working
order, and then he left to go to England. He’s a
seismic expert now. I got a letter from him only
last month.”
“And the girl—the little Samoan girl? ” I
asked.
“ Oh —her ! You see, a man can have only one
real love in his life, and Churt had his volcano. I
expect he must have met her again, though, for
in his letter -he remarks that when it comes to
playing up, a volcano isn’t in it with a girl.”
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


s *
yj/////////
■SO
6
X>
S»
\f
ft *» s » : Ssr>
I If so, Why not purchase a musical
' instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
ĥ
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
“——————— ———
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Mejal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
rhe
Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sol* Agents, ALLAN V CO.. Pty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St.. Melb.. Bendigo. Geelong.
p
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
t/ti, 2/9 & 4/6
tf/tlercdf*
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
speoifio in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
,< £%■*&>’ JSfS*-
:'{■'■'/{ V \
iV y' ft/?' ■-% • *
.
B.S.A,
:. a ■
G.ftG
.
TRADE MARKS
BLS.A.
The celebrated B.S.A. No 2 MODEL RIFLE is well depicted
aoove, and is just about the finest rifle yet produced suitable
for range or sporting work up to 200 yards, and yet within the
reach of those of morfera e means. This rifle is the latest pro-
duction of the famous BIRMINGHAM SMALL ARMS COM-
PANY LIMITED, an! has jumped into immediate popularity.
It is a full-sized weap n, built cn beautiful lines, with perfect
balance, has the latest bolt action with recessed bolt head and
covered in extractor. It is of '22 calibre and is fitted with new
adjustable sights, marked off up to 200 yards. It can he fiKed
with the No. 8 _B.‘ ; .A. Aperture Sight for miniuture match
shooting if required, and in this form it has put up some re-
markable records.
If you are interested write for Ilhjs'rated Booklet, mention-
ing the name of your gim dealer, to—
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co., Lon.),
5 STOCK EXCHANGE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, .Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver Bowels Skin and
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has’ hSSteffla
Stages of a disease, it has, m innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness 1
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENGS 'FRUIT SJ TT'
otherwise you have the sincereet form of flattery-IMITATION. ’
Prepared only by J. C.ENO U«„ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London
S.R., Bug,, by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
m
EE
c:. <o»
rrjc-on
aSU
|3XJI
Is your Liver right ?
Its one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kills enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle's Antibilious Pill, for Cockle’s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.
o
PILLS
.Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
I S EYE OINTMENT.
_Jtn w since 1596.
CURES
SSf Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
S GS7iA O T tBlli u 0 ) r rr bookisfree-or write
'***»N, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
ASTHIVIA CURE
6BIMAULTS INDIAN (MlfflEg I
Difficulty in Asthma, Nervom Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GHIMAULT ft Co's INDIAN CIGAR.
KTTE 8. dn!d by all Chemists.
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and. trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than, those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true o f such matters as must be decided by the test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECH AM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BBBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price HU (56 pi'ls) & 2/9 (168 pills).
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
ħ
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
h
1.'.-''-:'-'''-',;
The only (rue and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood'the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
ĥ
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we arc offering the following-
usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading:
Guns, engine-turned rib. left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding .locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Gun«, large bore,
do kill ht 100yds. Trial .. ..8 6 0 610 0
Single-Barrel, Hammer-less, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial 310 0 1 17 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast, cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial 610 0 417 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast, cross bolt. Trial .. io 0 0 710 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
vSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers -
139 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
s
Superior to
k INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
■ COPAIBA.
f same
diseases without
Inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name
ħ
Big* G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A cafe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
inflammations, irritations, nicer*
atlona of ALL mucous membranes
or linings ©f the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Tie Enas Chernies! Co.
h
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
/^B^\
ALL SHAPES
. |/each post free |/a
I Quality Not Better
I in a
V Guinea Pipe
*MICK SIMMONS
r SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCONISTS
SHOOED SEND EOR OCR TRADE UST
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from 1
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead ;
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine; to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache— a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus -gradually beeomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for invaHd&
.A.V.BudgerreePor
Nature’s Gift.
fills this prescription.
ĥ
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap,
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for iRy
and we will forward you a
dozen properly peeked with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 MTT STREET, SYDNEY, M.&W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VKX


Engine Packings—
Made in Australia.
(*
• %
H.
J
At our Drummoyne
factory we manufacture
many varieties of high-
grade engine packings
and jointings. They are
produced of the finest
materials and will give
good service. The prices
are economical.
®'® r further details of the above and
other Engineers’ Rubber Goods you
mould get a oopy of our No. 13
Catalogue, Write fer one to-day.
PERDRtAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
Xfae Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
ZTO George Street, Sydney.
Wiilans & Robinson, Limited,
For...
Electrical Generators,
Blowers,
etc., etc.
Fans,
AW
l
For. ....
High Pressure
and
Mixed Pressure Steam.
AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. [3
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2|in. x 4ft. for Walls, Uning
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Government®; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
The bulletin post cards-Now
Series, IV., V„ VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Teh. sd.
WOLFE’S
. The Family Stimulant.
ħ
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVfNG
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
h
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
SENTINEL
ĥ
Highest Economy
and Efficiency.
J.WILDRIDGE& SINCLAIR,
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical In Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now tn use.
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings, Mel-
bourne; and 228-50 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. |
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DINNEFORD’S
ons.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
M'
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
TEL.
/3236
\5221
electrical mining machinery specialists.
WARBURTON,
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
162 Clarence St
UJ
Sp 1:
m
ħ
" . * [:
m
Screwcutting Lathes, Milling Machines and Cutter,
Grinders, Shaping, Drilling, Screwing, Sawing and
Grinding Machines, in stock, and
ALL ENGINEERS’ REQUISITES. Write for Price Lists.
V
Engineers and
60
Machinery
nee St., Sydney
RICHARDS’ pulsatqr CLASSIFIER
FOR SEPARATING FREE MINERAL FROM GANQUE,
This remarkable invention is such an innovation in concentrating apparatus, and
the claims made for it are so extraordinary, that those who have not seen the
apparatus in actual operation will find it difficult to believe our assertions.
FOR A DUTY OF 150 TONS PER 24 HOURS.
h
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 George St. 9 Sydney;
525 Collins St., Melbourne.
ĥ
