

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— D E WA R’S WHIS K Y
R. Car. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
hdf
The
Kitson Light,
An Incandescent Oil Light. 1000 c.p.
for per hour.
hd
BEOBA.HT.
?f ; r-'-'-f ' . : V : >' ■
Ijadley’s Orient jjotel.
PI ON EE ”D
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
tJ. Cm Lucfowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
«
V J,
-
Take it back.
I must have—
HUTTON’S
FincApplc Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
' ; *» • -ft ; . / v. -i,
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
ƒ
HA N S E NS
fh
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals.
CORD
COVERS about 20 Per Cent, TUBES 25 Per Cent, and over
WRITE FOR
NEW PRICE LIST.
THE SILVERTOWN ROBBER CO., 279 George St., Sydney; Sat 53 Bolton St., Newcastle.
ADVANCES MADE ON ALL SECURITIES
7«a- CASTLE REACH ST 7TSYDNEY
DVB '*■' ■ TB mrnmm ■
EUSTACE BENNETT general manacfp
MONEY ADVANCED OPON ALL SECURITIES AT REASONABLE RATES OF INTEREST.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
' r ' »- . "
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
• IN f
d
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
PABCO ROOFING
(Asbestos Coated Maltboid).
THE ONE ROOFING THAT KEEPS YOU COOL.
A DELIGHT TO LOOK UPON. A TREAT TO LIVE UNDER.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER.
Call
For
\
BLACK .
SQUARE
BOTTLE.
SPA WATER
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies
in what it deports rather than in what it imports into the system.
8 HALIORAN, Ltd..
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vo). 32.—N0. 1663.]
[Thursday, December 28, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


f
Some Readers may still desire copies of
dard Poets, especially as they are now
in an Excellent Edition, Clear Type,
the Stan-
obtainable
Bound in
Neat Cloth, 2S. ; postage 3d. Cloth, extra, 3s. 6d., or Leather, 3s. 6d. ; postage 4d. each.
Printed by the Oxford Press.
Arnold; Browning, Mrs.} Browning, R.; Burns ; Byron; Campbell; Cow per; Hood;
Ingoldsby Legends; Keats;,’*ong fellow; Milton, Balgrave; Poe; Scott; Shake-
speare; Shelley; ~ m .uthey ; Tennyson; Whittier; Wordsworth.
GEORGE. ROBERTSONrffib CO. PTY. LTD,, 238 PITT ST., SYDNEY-
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
w
cs
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial |
Tubes of a dis- 1
sected Lung. J
D. A Lobe of on*/
of the Lungs. /
bactericidally as is creosote.” . . . 1/fi
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDI^'
the Australian States. Sew Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
ƒh
THE RED PAGE
Three Novels
Advt.
Oliver Onions, clever enough to start
life with a name that no reader is likely to
forget, is likely to travel far—not altogether
on his name. Strongly influenced by Wells,
as are most of the younger English school, he
is enough enamored of his special talent not
yet to turn out the sort of stuff that the pub-
lic, because it does not know any better,
clamorously wants. His books are always
individual. His Little Devil Doubt and
The Odd Job Man indicate his chosen pro-
vince, bounded bn the north, south, east and
west by Fleet-street, London. And his latest,
Good Boy Seldom (Methuen, per Sydney
Book Club), is set in the same locality. It
is frankly termed “a romance of advertise-
ment.” His hero, James Wace, was called
“Good Boy Seldom” simply because, as a
child, he was a good boy, but seldom; and
he grew up to be a good boy not at all.
Brought up on what the author terms
“Samuelism” —the painful gospel of sancti-
monious greed that Samuel Smiles preached
in his Self Help —James Wace rapidly out-
grew the Samuelistic precepts, and formed
others for his guidance, more suitable for
this modern, advertising age. Such as: “If
you can cod people it’s good enough, then it
is good enough.” Onions relates with cheer-
ful humor this modern advertising pilgrim’s
progress to the enviable position when he had
only to bait his line, and the “five hundred
pounders”—the investors with £SOO to throw
away—-would fiercely bite. He is not a plea-
sant character; but the graces would be only
a handicap in the tense, pushing world in
which James Wace found himself. He had
to fight against people of this sort: : —
“He’s English representative of a big Ger-
man syndicate. No; not an agent; he’s far
more than an agent; he keeps the agents up
to the mark and draws a salary fit to turn
you green with envy. When they put the
sugar tax on, Charlie had an anxious time
for a bit, but he came out with a profit all
right, tax or no tax. He got every blessed
item he imported analysed, to find out its
percentage of sugar, asked himself how he
was going to sell the same thing at the same
price, and still pay the tax, and soon man-
aged it all right. Paper—white paper, sil-
ver paper, paper like satin, paper like lace,
20 different sorts of paper. He pared down
his sweetmeats a bit smaller, so little you
wouldn’t notice, put a bit more gilt-foil on
’em to bring ’em up to size again, and then
gave his whole attention to the box they
were in. He invented all sorts of fancy
papier mache dodges to hold the things; —
animals, cornucopias, imitation enamels. He
put a bit of ribbon here, and an imita-
tion gilt seal there, and by-and-bye he
was actually able to reduce the price. ‘Same
article,’ you say? It was, for anything I
know, but the article doesn’t matter a brass
button. If you’re clever enough, or lucky
enough, you can sell any article. Th«
article isn’t your material. It’s the public.
Even as a boy Wace utilised -Divine ser-
vice at the chapel for a stimulating new
game, which might be termed mental bil-
liards. “He potted the gas-globes of the Rev-
erend John’s new platform into the pocket
of the organist’s mirror, or worked the
heads of the worshippers round the wall of
the building in a skilful series of nursery-
cannons, or negotiated a slow loser from a
pew-corner into the senior deacon’s chair.”
He ends as an absconding company pro-
moter, bound south in his beautiful white
and gold yacht. His delightful career is,
after all, a testimony to the value of “Sam-
uelism.” If, as he was always careful pub-
licly to preach, the Samuelistic precepts were
thrown over by his disciples, there would be
no good, decent, saving, stupid people to
fleece.
The Panama Canal.
It is not often that this page can praise
an American “best seller” ; but not merely
for its fine, strenuous, though somewhat im-
possible story, is Rex Beach’s The Ne’er-do-
well (Hodder and Stoughton) to be com-
mended ; there is humor in the writing, and
a sense of characterisation, and the Big Ditch
dominating the characters and the plot al-
most lifts the novel into a modern epic. The
story is a straightforward one, convincingly
told —not great art, but good technique.
Beach knows his limits and keeps well within
his grooves. A “rotter” of a son of a rail-
way millionaire gets into trouble in New
York, and is shipped off without a penny to
Panama. Here he is compelled to make good,
though his sudden rise is really engineered
by a married woman with political influence.
Of course youth calls—there must be a love
interest of the falsely idyllic sort in a popu-
lar novel —and the boy refuses the offered
love of his middle-aged good fairy for a mere
slip of Spanish prettiness. There are
thrills a-plenty; but, behind all the intrigue
and love-making you hear the reverberations
of the great task of cutting the canal.
“Somebody with a head for figures has
estimated what it costs the Government to
send a motor-car like this through the Cut
in working hours. I don’t remember the
exact amount, but it was some thousands of
dollars.”
“Delays to trains, I suppose?”
“Yes. A minute here, thirty seconds there.
Every second means a certain number of
cubic yards unremoved, and holds back the
opening of the canal just sq much. You
have postponed a great event several
minutes ”
“When we stole Panama, we made the
Columbians sore, and all Central America
besides, for they realised that once we
Yankees got a foothold here, we’d hang on,
and not only dominate this country, but all
the neighboring republics as well. That’s
just what we’re beginning to do. The stage
is clearing for a big political drama, which
may mean the end of Latin Central
America.
“The United States must protect its
canal, and to that end it is building ‘stone
quarries’ on Ancon Hill, which are really
fortifications. American capital is coming
here, too, and in order to protect the whole
thing, we must dominate Panama itself.
Once that is done, all the countries between
here and the Texas border will begin to
feel our influence. Why, Costa Rica is
already nothing but a fruit farm, owned by
a Boston corporation. .. .By-and-by we’ll
need room to expand, and when that time
comes, we’ll move south, not north or west.
Tropical America is richer than all our
great north-west, and we’ll grab it sooner or
later.”
The Inarticulate.
A clever, depressing, subtle, fatalistic
story of inarticulate souls in a New England
village is Ethan Frome, by Edith Wharton
(Macmillan), set against a background of
poverty and winter. If New England is like
Edith Wharton’s picture, the melancholy,
the sordidness, the pessimism, the discomfort
of it must be worse than any description of
black-blocks life done by Barbara Baynton.
This artistically constructed tragedy of
stunted souls ends with a characteristic com-
ment :
“The way they are now, I don’t see much
difference between the Fromes up at the farm
and the Fromes down in the graveyard;
’cept that down there they’re all quiet, and
the women have to hold their tongues.”
Oilj-, 11 Lj OllliJjlCj Cli HUOO •
She stood a delicate and holy thought,
Clothed in pure lovely flesh . ..
I wished to he as they in endless dream
Abed for evermore in gentle death...
The Boy's proud eyes
Shone as I chanted of the valiant tops
Borne down by England’s might—-that dear,
dear land
Of voices tranquilised by Time, and glades
Of softest rains and sun-lit meadow slope,
And Cross insculped with flowing runes, and
shell,
Lipped and green-stained, of fountain crys-
tal clear —
Antiquity time-silvered...
Behind the homing cows
Loiter in fragrant stillness boy and girl
With wonder filled at some strange gentle-
ness
That late as yesterday has come between
Their comrading, and made their rarer dream
At one with all the music of the sea
And earth and sky...
That is all —little cameos, done with too
facile and two fatal an ease.
VERSES BY JAMES HEBBLETHWAITE
PROVENCE.
In old Provence I love to stray
All for the old love’s sake,
For there in far-off times a lay
To minstrel harp at close of day
I sang beside the lake.
Sad in the summer twilight air—
-0 dusk of summer eves!
Around sat knight and lady fair,
I saw them not, for you were there,
My love, beneath the leaves.
VOYAGE.
A gentler clime or death,
The calm physicain saith,
And so to thinking:
Shall I ivith yearning seek those lovely fields,
Of beauteous art Italia yields,
Or, ’neath the Lion-flag, my future linking
With the dim past, live out my shortened
days?
Bear are those pale gold discs with faces
dark,
The song wild as the thrilling of a lark,
But blood is dearer far than time’s fair loss,
So to the Southern Cross
I am hull doivn in glory all ablaze.
(From “Meadow and Bush.")
Meadow and Bush, by JamesIIebblethwaite
(The Bookfellow, Sydney, 2s. 6d), is the sort
of book that opens flat. And, with the ex-
ception of some slight hillocks, none of which
is named Parnassus, it remains flat. As an
impression of a gentle and gentlemanly per-
sonality, this collection of verses is interest-
ing: as poetry it is negligible. Of the 78
poems here collected, 15 are ’reprinted from
A Rose of Regret; and it is among these 15
that are to be found three of the best
poems in the book, “Perdita,” “Provence” and
“Wanderers.” Best, that , is, because there
is a human pulse * through them. Hebble-
thwaite is a placid, devout dreamer, a lover
of old books and old memories, about which
he writes pleasantly, passively, pensively.
His musings are uninterrupted by passion
or by any revolt; he is too devotional for
anything but a slightly wistful optimism.
He is an unacclimatised alien, regretting the
roses of his English youth. There is more
of the meadow in his work than of the bush;
no mention of the paddock.
Of course, for a man who can write so
easily,’ so nicely, about the stock subjects of
classic poetry, he has published too much.
Much of his work here is prose. Here and-
there he paints a charming little picture,
slight, simple, artless :—
The Australian Repertory
Theatre
Bryceson Trehearne, the one vital force
in the theatrical world of Australia —not
unworthy of being bracketed with Granvilld
Barker in England, and Miss Horniman,
the creator of the Irish Theatre —is about
to close, by his return to London, his
epoch-making connection with Australia.
The Adelaide Literary Theatre movement —
a. misnomer, for its plays have been more
truly dramatic than literary—started by
this brilliant enthusiast in 1908, has had a
record of success that must shock and pain
the professional producers of commercial
drama who feed the audiences of Austra-
lasia on a continuous course of lightly pala-
table, 'innocuous but non-nutritious break-
fast foods. And not only have Trehearne
and his loyal band of assistants in little
Adelaide produced the cream of modern
drama, as well as presenting a number of
the efforts of seedling Australian play-
wrights, but they have, from the modest
start, made it pay !
Since the inception of the movement Tre-
hearne has produced 73 plays, not more
than half a dozen of which have been seen
on any other stage in Australia. And with-
out financial loss. He has demonstrated
that the repertory idea, if properly man-
aged, does and will flourish in this contin-
ent. The list of dramatists produced in-
cludes the following names :
Granville Barker, Arnold Bennett, Laur-
ence Binyon, Brieux, Ashley Lukes, J. B.
Fagan, Galsworthy, Lady Gregory, W. W.
Gibson, St. John Ilankin, Laurence Haus-
man, Ibsen, Edlith Lyttleton, Charles Rann
Kennedy, John Masefield, Maeterlinck,
Charles McEvoy, Gilbert Murray, Norman
Melvinnel, Stephen Phillips, Rostand, Ger-
trude Robins, Schnitzler, Bernard Shaw
(six plays), Strindberg, Sudermann, Synge,
Turgenieff, Wilde, Yeats. The Australian
authors included are: Arthur Id. Adams,
Louis Esson and Wilfred Neill. And plays
under consideration for the 1912 season in-
clude works by Sliaw, Ibsen, Sudermann,
Barker, Sheridan, Galsworthy, Strindberg,
Synge, Hewlett, Moliere, George Moore and
Louis Esson.
Listen to the aims of the manager, incor-
porated in the last programme—by the way,
the programmes, price tld., often contain 12
pages of interesting reading matter, and
have not one advertisement in them.
Jt
I was determined on one thing from the
start —that no amount of obloquy should
retard the movement. I have never given
the slightest consideration to the feelings—
or the carpings—of the public; they have
had to take what we have been pleased to
give them. There has been no compromise
to taste; no desire to please.
Our efforts have been, and are, devoted
towards an improvement in the status of
the theatre. How is this improvement to be
effected? Well, in one way, by making it a
power for good in civic and national life.
To obtain this we must free the theatre from
that bugbear which assails all art—com-
mercial competition. But to do this, we
must recognise that the theatre is a potent
force, the status of which is of vital concern
to the community. We must relegate the
theatre frankly and indisputably to its pro-
per place: that of fulfilling an educative and
artistic purpose. It must be elevated to the
status of a public art.
No one will disagree with the dictum that
the theatrical entrepreneur’s aim is to make
money and not to encourage art; the value of
the product presented is of little importance
to him; its worth is gauged by the number
of bawbees it brings in. The blame does not
lie wholly upon his shoulders. He runs his
business "much as all private businesses are
run: and that is, a surety of the greatest
profit with the least risk. He bases his
policy on what he is pleased to call the pub-
lic demand. In actuality it. is nothing less
than the gratification of his lust for gain.
After all, what does the public demand?
Has the public any say in the matter? Its
prerogative is to swallow greedily whatever
is offered to it, whether it is deleterious or
good for its digestion.
Who sets the fashion? Who creates the
taste? Has the public any voice in these
things ?
Nurture a child in a crime-laden atmos-
phere, and it invariably becomes criminal.
Feed a community persistently on bad art,
and one finds it redounding reflexly in a cre-
ation of false standards.
The public has to be guided, not followed
—led by the nose, as it were, to the trough
and shown what to drink and how to drink
it. How if we give it contaminated water
to drink? And yet this is what is being
done on our stage, day in, day out, year after
year.
The public is a vast, pregnable force, pro-
ductive of good or evil. It can be swayed
in either direction. It is docile and amen-
able. Is it not important now that it should
be swayed in the right direction, and does it
not concern us that nothing should be done
in the community which is likely to react
adversely on the life and future of that com-
munity ? . .
This implies a revolt against existing con-
ditions. It is plain enough to any observer
that the present system is worse than futile
—it is doing unmitigated harm. The theatre
is a public institution, and as such should be
controlled and regulated to such end as will
conduce to the greatest public service. And,
if the private theatrical entrepreneur fails to
perceive his duty towards the community, it
conges within the province of that commu-
nity to take the business out of his hands,
and transfigure it in accordance with the
exigencies and demands of the public con-
science.
You will say, this is a plea for nationali-
sation, for municipilisation. Certainly it is.
This course is amply justified when any pub-
lic concern, or more correctly, any concern
affecting the public, directly or indirectly, is
illegitimately utilised and thus becomes
inimical to the public welfare.
Those who know the great influence that
the State Theatre in France and Germany
and Norway have wielded, will appreciate
the value of this contention.
Touching upon one of the aims of the Ade-
laide Literary Theathe, Trehearne remarks
that the section devoted to plays by Austra-
lian authors has not been represented as well
as he would have liked, “but we have suc-
ceeded in giving a hearing to a certain num-
ber of works which, but for our efforts, would
perhaps still be lying on the shelves of their
respective authors. These attempts at the
creation of an Australian national drama
will, I hope, be the precursors of many more
from the same pens, and from the pens of
other writers who may be encouraged to
adopt the dramatic form as an outlet for
their literary inspirations.”
In explanation, it may be added that the
movement began in a very small way by a
group of university students connected with
the Adelaide College of Music, of which Tre-
hearne was the Director. It was run solely
on an extremely cheap subscription basis,
and has expanded with the years. It usually
produces its plays in big suburban halls, with
audiences usually over 1000 persons ; its act-
ing staff, as all other staffs, is composed of
unpaid amateurs; its pieces are produced
with the minimum of scenery, and they are
spoken, not “acted.” The standard of the per-
formances is astonishingly high. Finally,
the Adelaide press, as a general rule, look
upon the movement with a faint condescen-
sion, tempered occasionally by Wowseristic
outbursts of Puritanical pain. Its future,
even without the controlling hand and the
inspiring enthusiasm of its director, is se-
cure. Whether the movement can be ex-
tended to cities of the size and diffused ac-
tivities of Sydney and Melbourne is a ques-
tion about which one cannot be so sure.
However, if ever a State or municipal
theatre is established in Australia, here is the
man to make it a success.
Old Sydney
“Some day I shall write a volume, a
learned, a soulful, a melancholy volume, and
its title will be The Perils of a City. I shall
picture its peril at the hands of a conqueror;
its danger from fire or from a turbulent
people, but in many chapters will I dilate
upon its awful doom in the hands of its
friends.”
So writes Charles H. Bertie in the de-
lightful Old Sydney (Angus and Robertson
—a limited edition of 250 copies, which is in
danger of being oversubscribed for).
Few of us recognise that Sydney is an old
city, or that, despite the frenzy of muni-
cipal “improvements” there still survive
many historic buildings. It was the joint
labor of love of the author to discover these
relics, and of Sydney G. Smith to picture
them for us in a beautiful series of pen
drawings, exquisitely reproduced. No less
than 46 drawings, many of them full _ page
size, illustrate this volume, and the majority
of the places have been sketched as they are,
and not from old prints. The charm of old
Sydney has thus been recorded for posterity m
a way that will enhance the value of this
book, when each year sees the destructive
encroachment of “improvements.” Bertie has
delved industriously into the records of our
past: his contribution is pleasant but pedes-
trian prose; but the value of the book lies
in its delightful illustrations.
♦
Ethel Turner can always be relied upon to
turn out a girl’s book that girls will like.
If it is an honor she would appreciate, the
“Bookman’s” statement that she is Muss
Alcott’s true successor has our assent. She
stands at the top of her class, though,_ of
course, a minor class. Her latest offering,
The Apple of Happiness (Hodder and
Stoughton, per Angus and Robertsoh), is a
charming tale of a family that discovers “the
apple of happiness” in orchard farming,
after a trial of dependence upon a rich rela-
tive’s purse. In the telling of the tale we
meet, of course, a number of children —real
children, real Australian children. And
amid the pleasant humor there comes, occa-
sionally, at the right place, a tear, a real
tear.
The essay is an alien in Australia, but
when it is acclimatised, as in the work of
Archibald T. Strong, it is as healthy a
literary plant as any that grow in London.
Peradventure, a book of essays in literary
criticism, reprinted from the Melbourne
Herald (Lothian), is the right thing for the
literary bloke who is interested in “Pugilism
in Antiquity,” “The Faith of Shelley,” “The
Melancholy Jacques” and similar ant-eaten
subjects. But, for our purposes, it is neces-
sary to remind Strong that there is such a
thing as literature in Australia, as worthy
of being appraised, if only as indicat-
ing future tendencies, as in the spacious
times of Lizzy. Strong has the right touch,
the critical acumen. Why doesn’t he?


A
nee
No. IBl7S— Shaving Set, on Polished
Wooden Base, o§in. Mirror, one side
magnifying, the other plain. Movable
patent joint, which enables mirror to be
fixed in any position. 2 opal-lined Cups
and Badger Brush, 30/-
With 6fin. Magnifying Glass. 27/6.
With tigin. Bevelled Mirror, 23/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
for Economy
in . . .
SHAVING MIRRORS AND TOILET REQUISITES.
No. 1816S—Sliaving Set, on
Solid Nickel Base, 8 Jin.
Bevelled Mirror, on mov-
able joint, opal-lined Cup
and Brush. 17/6 each.
No. 1825—Shaving: Mirror, on
Soihl iNicKei Base, oval Bev-
elled Mirror, with movable
patent joint, which will fix
glass in any position, 13/6 ea.
MISSm
No. 1811S —hliavingr Set,
on Solid Nickel Base, s|ih.
Bevelled Glass, opal-lined
Cup and Brush, with pa-
tent joint to swing mirror
to any position, 10/0.
No. 1827 S—Shaving Set, Solid
Nickel Base, 6fin. Magnify-
ing Mirror, opal-lined Bowl
and Badger-Brush. 16/- each.
No. 1812 S—Shaving Set, on
Wooden Base, sJin. Bev-
elled Mirror, patent joint,
opal-lined Bowl and Bad-
ger Brush, 11/- each.
m
m
'si
:
es
No. 1848 —Cut Glass Scent Bottles. Silver Cap
Top, 3in., 4/6; 4in., 6/6; Sin. high, 9/6.
No. 1918S —The Universal Shaving: .tfirrt,*-,
Nickel Framei, will hang, stand, or fold up,
New Patent Handles.
Size of Glass, sJin.
Plain Mirror .. .. .. 4/.
2in. Bevel Mirror 4/6
With Plain & Magnifying Mirror 8/6
Oftin.
5/-
6/-
12/-
wmmmm
No. 1821 S—Shaving Mirror, on Solid
Nickel Base, patent movable joint,
which enables mirror to be fixed in
any position. Oblong Glass, 12in. x Tin.,
13/6 ea.; Bfin. x siin., 11/6 ea.; Sin. x
54in.. 9/6 ea.
Oval Glass, Tiin. x 9in.. 13/6.
Square Glass, 84in. 14/6; 7|in.. 12/6;
6fin., 10/-
Xo. iBISS—F Hiding
Travelling: Shaving
Mirror, siin. Bevelled
Glass. 5/- eacli.
Postage must be added
to the prices quoted
on this page.
No. 1830 S—Solid Nickel Soap Case, size
3Jin. x 2Jin., 1/-
No. 1823S —Nickel-mounted Mirrors, on Stand,
i 4 sizes, 3/6. «/», 2/6, 2/3 each.
No, 1821S —Solid Nickel Soap Case, 3 Jin.
x 2Jin., 9d.; 3jin. x 2}in., lOjtd.; 4Jin. x
3in., 1/-
a
No. 1824S —Snavlng Set, on Heavy Glass
Base, sj|in. Mirror, one side plain, the
other magnifying, 2 opal Cups i*nd
Badger Brush, 21/- each.
No. 1813S —Shaving Set, on
Solid Nickel Base, Mag-
nifying Mirror. opal-lined
Bowl and Badger Brush.
16/- each, or with s*in. Bevel
Edge Mirror. 13/-
No. 18888—Shaving- Set, on
Glass Bash, siin. Mirror,
opal-lined Bowl and Badger
Brush, 12/6 and 17/6.
No. 1832S —Shaving- Set, on
Solid Nickel Base, siin.
Square Glass, on mov-
able joint, opal-lined Cup
and Brush, 11/- each.
No. 1822S —Shaving Set on heavy 82in.
Glass Base, 6gin. Mirror, one side plain,
the other magnifying. Movable patent
joint, which enables mirror to be fixed
in any position; 2 opal-lined Cups and
Badger Brush, 31/-
Witli Magnifying Mirror. 29/-
With 6fin. Bevelled Mirror, 25/-
& SONS,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
ProviderSi
Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. \4\
ĥfhf
THE RIGHT RIFLE FOR THE YOUNGEST BOY.
Parts attached to action itself, making it very simple. Weighs 2%. pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will also shoot .22 Long
R. F. and .22 Short R. F.
Al n Vrogressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens = Pope Cata-
logues. [6
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strsngthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for mem, women and children.
SOLD. BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: i. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETIic. c vo., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
JAY Flfu
&
S^ffßlNKA®^
UNSHRINKABLE
V
/
/
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons’
Infants’ Powders
for the
Little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fretfulness
and the many ailments common to infancy
Recommende4 by H.R.H. The Crown Princess ol Roumania.
MISS FRANKLIN, c/o (?apt. Embury, R.E., Blacfydown Corner, pear Leamington, writes:
“ I have been asked to write to you by an Austrian Lady, to know if you will send her two boxes,
each containing 100 of your Teething .Powders. She says they are the same you have supplied
to the Crown Princess of Roumania, from whom she first heard of them.”
ASHTON & PARSONS'
INFANTS POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless they cool the gums comfort the child - produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep —render teething quite easy prevent pain and disorder
are pleasant to the taste —are mild and gentle in action may be given, to the youngest and
most delicate babe and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
ĥf
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.RH. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H. I. H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
df
WP' Ashton & Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless ’•0
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, 6O Powders, 2/9; 100 Powders, 4/6.
To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND
CAoie
COASTER
Never Failing Efficiency
is guaranteed to all cyclists using the Eadie Coaster
or the Eadie Two-Speed Coaster. The
Eadie Coaster
contains the “brake which never fails”—the brake that
answers immediately to the slightest backward pressure of
the pedals, and enables the rider to coast down the steepest
hill in safety and negotiate dense traffic with ease. The
Eadie Two-Speed Coaster
is identical with the Eadie Coaster, but has .the addi-
tional advantage of a perfect variable gear. Any agent
can fit them to old or new machines without altering
the frame. A revelation of luxury to road riders.
L. Fully described in the latest B.S.A. Handbook, obtainable from
D. Y. RENNIE 'Representing The B.S.A. Co.).
k t AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS.
MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLESv £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ©. sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
ƒhd
Hf
Is the most perTect Preservative -for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
ivi. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
TERRIBLE NERVE NEURALGIA
j \v •. 7 ,
The Slightest Touch of Her Hand Maddened Her.
///
/ • *
!/ / 7
\ \ "0
» ' *
CLEMENTS
TONIC
CURED HER ACHES
Is there any ailment that makes the body
so sensitive to touch as Neuralgia or Inflam-
mation of the nerves? Is there anything to
compare with the agony of sleepless nights,
caused through nervous neuralgia of the face?
Yet when it is caused bv bad liver or stomach
as it often is, Clements Tonic is the rapid
remedy. Read this letter from Miss Mary
Renton, 88 Highnet Street, Richmond, Vic.,
written 9/9 l’ll: —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I have not , heard of a parallel
■complaint to mine. To show the
various forms Neuralgia will take,
which I had for one year, every
liair of my head came away, and
the slightest touch about my head or face would cause intense pain. I
am thankful to say, since recovering my health my hair has grown
rapidly again. On one occasion I was in the hospital for kidney com-
plaint, and they did the best they could for me; but my-nerves were all
unstrung. One of my own family brought home a couple of bottles o±
Clements Tonic for me to try, and I soon found it was the medicine I
was in need of. I kept taking it for four months, and am in lobust
health. I • have no fears of the above complaints with a bottle of
Clements Tonic in the house, and I think without
it . “(Signed) MARY RENTON.”
This is but one case of hundreds. This medicine is equal to a doctor in your home where
resilf and * EVERYWHERE.' %
it and get well, and live healthily. .


What
About
That
Dandruff?
•s
s*e
There is just this much about it:
Dandruff is a germ disease, is
most untidy, annoying, and leads
to baldness. When chronic, it
is very stubborn, bu* surely
yields to thorough and energetic
treatment. All germs must be
destroyed, the scalp must be
restored to health. Here is the
remedy : Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ask your doctor about using it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES MOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr,,J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., 11. S. A.
IDEAL APERIENT
GOICRYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
rs
PAJENTJ
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877|
Art
English Doctor
says he never goes
abroad without a tin
of Cerebos Salt, be-
cause he could always
rely on its perfect
purity, goodness and
fineness.
Cerebos
Salt
Agents—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SHI
■NT’
PI
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., 01 me rice St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Go., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep. —T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
IRIiUMOSS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks”
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
ďhf
CHICAGO
(1405.)
Tr
THIN WOMEN !_—
A thin woman is not necessarily plain, let alone ugly. In
fact, many thin women possess very pretty, “sweet faces,” but
this is usually admitted with the qualifying phrase, “but,
poor thing, she is so dreadfuliy thin.
A woman’s chief charm-is a well-founded figure and a full
bosom. With these, thin arms and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages of ill-health have
sought and accepted this advice, and to-day are models of
womanly development and examples of perfect health.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We want you to know just what “Flesh-Food” is, and will
gladly give you. a free sample. Send 2d. stamp, and let vis
forward a free trial sample and our instructive book. “Flesh-
Food” is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if
desired. All correspondence is confidential and private, and all
our literature is sent closely covered and free from observa-
tion. Write at once. It is absolutely Free.
I FAIXIERE FFESH-FOOD GO., 1103 Ash Street Sydney (rear Equitable Fife Building:).
Dangers of Varicose Veins.
Few people realise until too late, how very dangerous to their exist-
ence Varicose Veins are. If you suffer from these veins, or even have
them, let us send you a free book describing their dangers, and more
particularly the VECSEY METHOD of curing them. Hundreds endorse
it, as it is purely a home treatment, and does not require laying up, and
is entirely harmless. No one who has varicose veins or ulcers should delay
an hour in obtaining full information on the subject. We have treated
and cured hundreds, and can probably do the same for you, once we know
your condition
FREE BOOK.
FREE CONSULTATION
Send 2d.
consultation.
stamp for free book of full particulars, or call for free
Very few cases are incurable. Write or call to-day.
ƒhd
Mil. G. VECSEY.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
1410.
AT BREAKFAST TIME
or supper time Horlick’s Malted Milk
is a delicious substitute for tea, coffee and
cocoa. It is prepared
in a minute and requires
no cooking.
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists and
Stores. Samples and
Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted
Milk Co., Slough,
Bucks., England.
.MILK
fhd
Tobacco
Rills l
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
withpu't causing
themselves discom-
fort. . . . It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
hfh
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to -health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR OS. CO.,
DEPT. Q VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quartet -
million WavbacK Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
BOVRIL
/#
V
Tickles the Palate
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Serving of Youth.
(A Rhyme of the Ring.)
’ There is a fighter we all must face,
We of the ropes and the boarded ring,
Following us at an even pace
In the lust of our conquering.
For at the end of our tether’s length
Cunning of age and its dear-bought sooth
Roll at the feet of his shining strength—
This fighter whose name is Youth.
This do I know, who have fought my fight—
/ fought with Youth to-night!
Back on the brink of the rushing years
I was tried out on Age—and won !
And that first, fierce night, to my eyes and
ears, - . .
Was just as the night now done.
For onward through counter and feint and
guard
To my half-arm blow as he broke away
Battered and broken (for Age dies hard !)
Rolled on his face and lay—
So now, to a circle of newer men,
The play has been played again.
f.
Back in the thick of the shouting years,
I had won through the first hard bout--
For Youth is a fire that strikes and sears,
But Age is a flame burned out!
And Age, from the din of the battle-place,
With heavy shoulders and slow feet crept,
In a dark room-corner bowed his face
On his vein-webbed hands, and wept:
(To-night, with'bruised body and broken hand,
I remember and understand !)
Youth in the ring to-night with me
Was supple and splendid and prodigal.
And I —l was crafty, as Age must be,
Age that has staked his all—
Fending the weight of each thrashing blow,
(For Youth is a fire, but Age is cold!)
Driving my glove to his body low,
With his hand in my armpit-hold,
Baulking and biding to speed the swing
That should flash to the opening.
It came—and I struck for the jaw— too high !
Yet squandering all for the last attack,
In volleying rallies recklessly
I bullocked and beat him back,
Leaned in the clinch till I felt him rock,
And his breathing sob and his shoulders
bunch,
Till, staggering down to the cruel shock
Of the crumpling body-punch,
He fell—yet as Youth, ’neath a hundred blows,
Alone may rise— he rose l
Youth is a fire —-but Age. dies hard !
I felt him freshen ’within the clinch,
Till we broke, and over my heavy guard—
Lowering inch by inch—-
The fixed white faces of staring men,
Silent and countless, set and cold,
Swam for a second within my ken,
And I knew I was spent and old:
One soft, swift shock, and a faint-heard shout —
And the faces blotted out!
There is a fighter we all must face,
We who have swept through the hoarded
ring,
Following us at an even pace
To the end of our conquering —
We that were Youth, and at last are Age,
(And tradeless hands will not keep a wife !)
Stumbling down from the spattered stage
To the long grey after life,
Stricken and sped in the last sad fight —
I fought with Youth to-night!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
Folly.
My lips are red as a rose,
Or berries that burn on the holly;
I bring you laughter and woes,
And my name among men is Folly.
I shine in the eyes of a girl
(Look deep in their depths, and behold me) ;
With a tress of her hair, with a curl
I tangle, my masters, and hold ye.
I’m there —when her light foot trips
In a merry dance among dancers ;
In the red appeal of her lips
And the fire irt’ your blood that answers.
I’m the gem on the damsel’s throat,
And the jewel that lights her tresses ;
I’m her passionate, low love-note
When she yields to your warm caresses.
I’m the rose that she gives to you
(Kissed first) as a true-love token;
I’m the vow that she makes to be true,
And the vow that is straightway broken.
I mate with the last and least,
And reign with a king in his palace ;
I’m guest at the rich man’s feast,
And I smile from his beaded chalice.
In the cup of the heart forlorn,
And the rose-red bowl of pleasure,
I linger all night, till morn
Comes mingling her gold and azure.
I am first where the madcaps race,
I beckon from heights of danger ;
Alert in the market-place
I bedevil the money-changer.
I move through the crowded mart
Where the heaped gold rings and yellows,
I dwell in the Statesman’s heart,
Who gives his life for his fellows.
I sit at the Council Board,
I march with the fighting legions,
I rage with the famished horde
Who groan in the Under-regions.
I look from the hero’s eye,
I sigh in the lover’s story ;
The Laurel of Fame am I,'
I, too, am the Crown of Glory.
My lips are red as a rose,
Or berries that burn on the holly;
I bring you laughter and woes,
And my name, among men, is Folly.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft.
~ T • .n- ts ?
V- *' Vi v V f t.‘V ft »
„*• >. i- v A. A V » ■
jllilUll'tillHu.llliHh
TwfjCrffiwßi ■ ffiq
CLOSED AS COUCH,
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed. is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY.
GIVE HIM A PLUM RAZOR.
wm
-1\ \
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
Safety Razors from 5/6.
No Gift is more appreciated by a man than that
of a keen Razor that will give him 7 velvety shaves
a week. A PLUM RAZOR will do this in every week
in the year. As practical Hairdressers —we use Plums
in our own saloon, and absolutely know that no
Razor will give you such perfect shaving satisfaction.
We keep in order, FREE, for TWO YEARS, Every
PLUM RAZOR sold by us.
TheC.& A. Mous-
tac h e Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21 /-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the above Post Kree.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
WELSBACH FANS
THE WEATHER AUTHORITIES predict a WARM
Australian Summer, and a Hot Christmastime ahead
-n;
v
ELECTRIC.
THE GAS VENTILATING FAN
has an air displacement of 216 cubic feet per
-minute, with the low gas consumption of two
cubic feet per hour, fitted with Ball-Bearings,
and requires little attention ; Pf jgg £4 gach
WELSBACH ELECTRIC FANS
are made to pass the most stringent test, fitted
with Speed Regulator, and can be driven by
D.C. or A.C. Current, at 110 to 240 volt. They
are highly-finished, Black Enamel Frame and
Body, with Nickel Fittings.
Designs comprise CEILING FANS, 32in., 54in.,
and 60in. Blades, J rom to £JJ JQ S>
TABLE OR BRACKET FANS, lOin., 12in.,
and 16in. Blades; also, the SWIVEL and TRUN-
NION FAN, 1 Oil), and 12in. Blades.
Prices vary from £2 7s. to £3 15s. each.
Catalogue and other information from
The WELSBACII LIGHT COMPANY are offer-
ing FANS, driven by GAS and ELECTRICITY,
which will bring comfort into the Home life,
and increase the energy of the worker during this
hot, trying weather.
TheWdsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Welsbach House, 302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
330 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth Agencies.
BIG VALUE XMAS GIFTS
1 sct. Gold Brooch, set with real diamonds
and pearls and colored gems,
Hundreds
of other
Designs
in Stock.
ISct. Gold, set with 22 diamonds
rubies or sapphires,
£B/15/-
18ct. Gold, set with
5 diamonds
£5.
t
Set with 2 diamonds
and 3 rubies or
sapphires,
£3/15/-
■ 000
IBct. Gold, set with
double-cut diamond,
£4/10/-
Set with larger
diamond,
£6/10/-
You run no risks in shop=
ping by mail at my Store.
I pay postage on all
orders, and guarantee satis-
faction or money back.
Solid Gold Links, nicely
engraved, strong chains,
16/6.
15ct., 27/6.
Solid Gold Pendant, set
with pearls and colored
stones,
MY BIG XMAS GIFT CATALOGUE will assist out=of=town customers tose=
lect suitable presents. Sent post free to any address in the Commonwealth.
JOE DAVIS, 26
The Money Saving Jeweller,
Park Street, SYDNEY,
One Door fr.om Pitt Street.
The choicest features of high-grade to-
baccos —and the most desirable niceties of
manufacture and packing are very evident
in every packet of
manifesting the true subtlety and charm of
Oriental tobacco.
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIAN
All Tobacconists.
Dal gety & Co. Ltd.
Sole Agents
for Australia.
The,grade is exclusive —
NOT the price!
Men of even / rank smoke
ABDULLAS!
When Buying lulle
insist on seeing
this Narrie and trade
%on the car
marl
rn
(CORRECTNESS in Millin-
ery is not a matter so much
of fashion as of suitability to the
individual.
The pleasing refinement of Tulle —its light, airy crispness, its
transparent beauty, and the softening effect it has on the com-
plexion, make it the most to be desired fabric for millinery,
neckwear, scarves, etc.
fj[ Decide to have Tulle—and decide to get the longest wearing, most econ-
omical Tulle possible. In other words, decide to get “Dynamo” Rainproof
Tulle—which is guaranteed to withstand all climatic conditions, moisture, and
rain—and to be free from stickiness.
A “Dynamo” trimmed hat will retain its original beauty, crispness, and
lustre far longer than the .Tulle you are accustomed to. That is why
“Dynamo” Tulle is the best for you to buy.
RAINPROOF Tulle
Can be obtained by the yard in black, white,
and all colours, 36 inches wide, at all prices.
Ask your dealer for “Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle—by name —and insist on
f
having the genuine. You will know it by the name and this trade
mark, which appears on the end of the card on which the Tulle
is wound.
If your dealer cannot supply you with the genuine, he
can get it for you easily and quickly if you will ask
him to communicate with his wholesale distributer.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1G63.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1911.
PIUCK 6d.
ƒhf
.1
mi mm
DESIGN FOR A NEW YEAR’S CARD -FATHER TIME IN A NEW GUISE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384- Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUIiSCRiniJIiS.
(in Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. .. £l 6 0
Half-yearly 0 13 6
Quarterly . . . . . . 0 7 0
lly said inf/ direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Si.r Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., and all llusiness Cornmunica-
hons to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and. to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
llusiness letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisenients, etc .) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for ••'. copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
ihe Editor ivill carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions subinitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. Hut no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
DIRECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Aekica. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency. Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
H.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/J/l Hastings Street;
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.—Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
llong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) -.—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand. Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, I6oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bkoz. to
10oz., 2id; lOoz. to 120 z., Sd; elsewhere, 1/oz., id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
ifce'fy'alleZztfi.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2S, 1911.
THE N.S.W. COAL VEND CASE.
Last week Justice Isaacs delivered his
judgment—a colossal effort lasting close on
three days—in connection with the N.S.W.
Coal Vend case. Proceedings were instituted
under the Australian Industries Preserva-
tion Act (1906-1909). There were 40 de-
fendants, and they comprised practically all
the colliery proprietors in the Newcastle and
Maitland districts of N. S. Wales and cer-
tain steamship owners. They were charged
with: —
Combining and conspiring to monopolise the trade
and commerce in Newcastle and Maitland coal, with
intent to control to the detriment of the public, the
supply and price of the coal-. The alleged detriment to
the public consisted in the practical and persistent
annihilation of competition on land and sea; exces-
sive, arbitrary and capricious prices charged to con-
sumers ; restriction of their opportunity of choice;
difficulties in obtaining particular classes or grades of
coal desired; substitution, really compulsory, of
other coals for coal preferred; and delays in ob-
taining delivery.
The defence was a stark denial of every-
thing. There was a vast array of expensive
counsel, and the case was fought, at any
rate in its opening stages, with extraordin-
ary vigor. The line taken by the Associated
Northern Collieries is a case in point, touch-
ing which Isaacs complained as follows: —
From beginning to enrL the defendants had con-
tested the membership of ®che association, and raised
objections of a most technical character, necessita-
ting the wasteful consumption of hours and days in
argument, and the laborious piecing together of
detached fragments of evidence in order to meet the
requirements of technical proof as to this elemental
fact. He felt bound to say that the defendants’ at-
titude in 'persistently denying the vend membership,
and in insisting that the Crown at a great cost of
time, money and energy, should pursue, with neces-
sary minuteness, the multitude of documents and cir-
stances requisite to connect the various colliery
owners with that association, admitted of no reason-
able excuse.
* * * *
He found that there was an agreement
between the colliery proprietors and the
shipping companies, that it had operated to
raise the price of coal out of all reason,
and that it was “obviously detrimental to
the public.” He pointed out that the ad-
dition of only one penny per ton to the
price of inter-State c0a1—1,500,000 tons —
would give the defendants concerned an
aggregate additional return of £6250. Yet,
when the miners got a well-deserved rise in
wages, the colliery-owners, “provided for it,
or for part of it at all events, only on con-
ditions which made the public pay the ad-
vance in full, and also gave Sid. a ton to the
mine-owners.” And, of course, the ring
fence of monopoly, being complete, there
was none to say them nay. As regards tin?
shipping companies connected with the
Vend, lie found that they so acted as to re-
press competitors who were struggling to
share the inter-State trade, and so as to
make fresh competition impossible. And he
concluded :
I have no hesitation in finding that the Australian
public in four States have suffered great detriment
in respect of excessive prices charged for Newcastle
coal; that the excess is accentuated by the restric-
tion on choice introduced by the Vend and made
more thoroughly effective by the shipping com-
panies. I think the Vend and the shipping com-
panies looked to no person’s advantage but their
own ; and their own they followed up wherever they
could, and to the farthest distance possible. The
intent of all concerned to beat off competition is
unmistakable, and this action on their part is pre-
paratory to the definite formation of the combination.
Also, lie fined the 16 individuals, 22 corpora-
tions and two commercial trusts implicated
£5OO apiece.
It is well enough so far as it goes. The
general public, which has been fleeced to the
tune of millions, and private firms such as
Scott, Fell and Co., which were hurried to
ruin by the agency of the Vend, won’t com-
plain that Isaacs has been unduly severe.
But other aspects of the position are less
cheering. A fortune lias been squandered,
and the entire time of a highly-paid Federal
Judge, has been monopolised for months to
establish a set of facts which were
stated in detail in this paper upwards
of five years ago, and which, for long, have
been perfectly obvious to the dullest observer.
That they have been legally established is a
mere matter of luck. “Liberalism” has all
along damned the trial for a “callous out-
rage.” Failing the materialisation of a
Labor Ministry, nothing would have been
done. Furthermore, had the Vend betrayed
the faintest traces of horse sense, and a
measure of the simple wariness which Wil-
liam Sikes takes with him on any house-
breaking expedition, it might have been saved.
However, it didn’t. Hideously compromis-
ing documents were as thick as leaves on
Vallambrosa. The few feeble attempts that
were made to conceal things proved, on care-
ful scrutiny in court, to be peculiarly
damning proofs of what was in the wind.
In short, Justice has here had a unique
stroke of luck —one that will probably never
occur again. The enemy operated freely
throughout Australia (unlike the Sydney Gas
Monopoly and similar curses), thus bring-
ing itself within the grip of the Federal law.
Had it hoisted' killed competition
in (say) N. S. \Vales alone, or had it even
taken due precautions as regards registering
in this State or any other, and yet victim-
ised the whole of the States (a compara-
tively simple affair), it would have been im-
mune from attack.. Had it eschewed writ-
ten contracts and agreements, signed and un-
signed, and all compromising correspondence
(in other words, worked under what is
termed in the U.S. —where the conduct of
illegal combines has been raised to the level
of a fine art —a “Gentleman’s Understand-
ing”)—the .Government’s task would have
been well-nigh hopeless. None of these pre-
cautions was taken. In fact, practically no
precautions worthy the name, of anv de-
scription, were taken. The Vend hurled it-
self into the congenial job of tearing vast
sums of money off the public, under the wild
delusion, seemingly, that “Liberalism” would
never go out of office, which was as absurd
as though a burglar worked on the assump-
tion that the sun would not rise till his job
was over.
* * * *
The national lesson which emerges from
the unpleasant business is that, except in
such cases, as the above—cases which, as be-
fore mentioned, are most unlikely to occur
again—Australia’s existing anti-Trust legis-
lation is of little use. It does not touch the
Fish vends, Bread vends, Fruit vends, Brick
vends and the. rest of the soulless combines
which are skying the cost of living in every
State. A sort of Rent vend has recently
made its appearance in Sydney, and Federal
legislation can’t touch that. It can’t touch
the C.S.R. Co., or the Melbourne Gas Co.,
or the Meat Ring, though it is just as desir-
able, from the standpoint of the consumer,
that these concerns should be dealt with as it
is that the Coal Vend should be leapt on.
And any new Vend may arrive, from Amer-
ica or elsewhere, and, so long as it goes
about its extortion carefully and intelli-
gently, it need not fear so much as a prose-
cution and a fine. The experience of the
world in general, and America in particu-
lar, indicates that there is only one sure
way of discouraging Vends. And that is to
give the national Parliament the power to
proclaim an injurious Trust the undesirable
affair it is, and deal with it accordingly.
Litigation such as that which came to an
end last week doesn’t really discourage
Trust-prompters : it merely teaches them how
to avoid trouble in futu're.
IRISH HOME RULE ON THE HORIZON.
A dissertation upon some ancient and
modern history:—
Next year, unless the bottom falls out of the
Asquith-Lloyd Georue Ministry in the interval, it is
probable that Irish Home Rule will really be inaug-
urated. If it misses fire at the last moment, the
tariff question will probably be the cause. The last
important subject in dispute is whether Ireland shall,
or shall not, be allowed to rebuild its decayed indus-
tries by Protective duties. A section of the Irish
holds that Protection is essential, if the workshops
and factories which were shut up or burned down, lest
they should compete against their English rivals, are
to rise again. A considerable section of tire English
holds that England must necessarily Enow Best, and
if England says that Ereetrade is the ideal condi-
tion, then it is the ideal condition, and always will
be. Under English rule, combined with Ereetrade,
Ireland has become the one white man’s country on
this earth with a steadily decaying population—the one
white man’s country on earth that is unfit, on the evi-
dence of results, for a white man to live in. Yet to the
Englishman of the old Manchester school, it is still
an axiom that English ideas are the only ones adapted
to Ireland. Therefore, it is possible that the Home
Rule movement may strike a snag at the last mo-
ment, through the intense resolve of the old Cobdenite
Briton to continue shoving the blessings of his fiscal
creed on a country which,■; under the influence of
these same blessings, has already lost half its people
and such remnants of its old prosperity as were still
on deck when the doctrine of the Shoddy Saint came
along.
If Ireland presently receives a large measure of
self-government, it will mark the abandonment of a
struggle, which has lasted four centuries or there-
abouts, to turn the Irishman into an Englishman,
whether he would or not. Some 400 or more years
ago the furious complaint of the Englishman was
that Ireland was, in a sense, too peaceful. The
old Englishman of the Conquest and the Irishman
had settled down together and become practically
reconciled. They had intermarried until it was difli-
dult to tell one from another, but on the whole the
Irish elemeiit'predominated. The Irikll language and
the Irish'literature and the Irish-deUr'nihg'had taken”
an enduring hold on the rude English invaders. Irish
manufactures . rivalled,■ if. they did not exceed, those
of England. The ships of Ireland traded on many
seas, and Irish merchants were abundant in Spain,
Portugal, Italy, Germany, France and the Nether-
lands. But this land of comparative plenty had the
misfortune to be harnessed to England, and the mis-
fortune became especially. conspicuous at a time when
England was the boss pirate of Europe. In the spa-
cious days of the mean arid red-headed Elizabeth,
England was a pirate country, and was proud of the
fact. It went mad with excitement at the sudden
wealth of new-found Spanish America. Its raiders were
on all the waters, whether in time of nominal peace
or nominal war, plundering the Spanish treasure-
ships and the Spanish ports, laying the foundations
of the slave-trade, collecting ransoms, and raising
Gain and perdition generally. The Queen recognised •
the pirates, or professed to disown them, according
to the circumstances of the moment, but she always
collected her share of the profits. And the volunteer
ships of the freebooters constituted a large part, and
a very efficient part, of the English navy in the
Armada days.
* * * *
It was a time when England had a craze for
uniformity as well as for piracy. Uniformity in
religion was enforced by furious enactments.
Unuormity in language, manners, dress, litera-
ture and modes of thinking and living were
all regarded as essential, or at least advis-
able. To the Englishman of Tudor times, Ireland
was an anomaly, re um-u't grow pirates who raided
the Spanisn coasts, it wanted to trade with Spain
and Portugal instead of spoiling their shores, and
that fact amounted to treason. Worse still, it did
trade with them, and made money, and got a kindly
reception. It stood apart in language and literature
and clothes. It swallowed up me English settlers.
They became Anglo-Irish, and more Irish than
Anglo. A country like this might yield a certain
amount of revenue, but it was looked upon, none
the less, as a source of weakness. It was out of
sympathy with the generation of Elizabethan sea-
rovers, and didn’t keep step. It took little or no
interest in English civil commotions. It might
have supplied soldiers for the English army if it had
been invited to do so, but it never was invited. It
retained the feudal system after the Wars of
the Roses had broken up that system in England,
and the Englishman regarded it as an insult that an
adjacent race shouldn’t shift its point of view when
he did. It failed to change its religion just when he
did, which was another source of dissatisfaction. In
fact, England was making, in Ireland, its first big
attempt at ruling an alien people, and it was in the
position of a hog that makes its first acquaintance
with a baby. There had been other experiments, but
they were on a different scale. They were either
short-lived or unimportant. Scotland, after a
few years of English.. rule, had risen in . a
state of furious incivility and refused to
have any more of it. The French pro-
vinces which were brought into the English . connec-
tion by the early Norman and Angevin kings had
handed jn their resignation with an axe. Wales
hardly counted, for it Tvas so small, barren and stone-
broke that it was mostly “ruled” by the simple
process of leaving it alone. But Ireland was very
rich, as wealth went in those days, which made it a
place worth exploiting; and though it was part of
the English State, it was looked upon by Englishmen,
who knew neither its speech nor its books, as a foreign
land —just as foreign as Spain or Poland. And that
justified the exploitation.
So it was decided, in an off-hand fashion, that
Ireland must be Anglicised. The early Tudors had
this opinion, but it became especially strong in
Elizabeth’s day. The idea that a great commerce
and great wealth should belong to English subjects
who refused to speak English, or to be English, was
regarded as just as great a wrong >as if that com-
merce belonged to Spaniards or Portuguese or devils.
There arose a gigantic proscription of the Irish and
the Anglo-Irish alike. Probably the latter were the
more hated of the two, for their chiefs represented
the old English aristocracy, which the new aris-
tocracy had practically extirpated in England. The
new men of the buccaneering days were hungry for
wealth, and there wasn’t enough Spanish plunder to
go round. So the Irish ports were blockaded by the
Elizabethan sea-kings, and the Irish ships seized, just
as if they belonged to a hostile nation. All trading
by Irishmen —even local trading in towns and at
fairs, was prohibited, and all Irish sea commerce was
declared illegal, in the hope of making Irish trade
a profitable English monopoly. Irish money was
debased about 30 per cent, below the English stan-
dard, so that it might be of no use or value in
foreign intercourse. Irish property titles were can-
celled, or, rather, disregarded; in other words, the
country was treated as a savage land, newly dis-
covered and open for settlement, and was allotted to
new men from England. So that the new men might
not become Anglo-Irish, like the old English settlers,
the Irish language and costume were put on the con-
demned list, the Irish schools were closed for more
than 200 years, and there was for ages such a rigid
search for, and destruction of, Irish books and manu-
scripts that the once-great Irish literature vanished
almost as completely as that of Greece under the,
Turkish domination. And the wiping out of Greek
knowledge by the Unspeakable Turk was so com-
plete that, when Greece recovered its independence, it
was even necessary to appoint a commission to devise
a new Greek language. Irishmen were expelled from
England. It was ordered that no Irishman should
be apprenticed to a trade, or should enter any of the
leading towns of his own country. And Irish manu-
facturers were ordered, in a large, general, magnifi-
cent fashion, to leave off.
**’ * *
Seeing that a crude nation,' flushed with successful
war, and possessed with the new craze for religious
and racial uniformity, had started out with the idea
that it was necessary to make Ireland as English as
England itself, these proceedings were intelligible.
But they were eminently unsuccessful. The raw, new
commercial England believed that the way to secure
business was to burn or sink or steal the ships of its
rivals. The result was much combustion and little
permanent profit. It made the great mistake of imag-
ining that it could annex the existing trade by hang-
ing the old trader, and taking possession of his
shop. In its haste, it hanged or ruined the cus-
tomers as well, and the trade was destroyed. Ireland
had no more chance in the disagreement than Lan-
cashire would have to-day if London and the rest of
England suddenly declared against it a war of exter-
mination. But though proceedings were in a measure
successful, the dividend was almost nil. And the
new trouble began before the old one was finished. To
the Englishman—the English “undertaker” of Eliza-
beth’s day—who was just starting over sea to take
possession of a confiscated Irish estate, the disabilities
imposed on the Irishman who had been evicted to
make room for him seemed highly commendable.
They were part of the system to which he owed his
fortune. When he had lived a few years in Ireland,
suffering from the bad money and the innumerable
trade restrictions, he grew angry; yet, as the Irish
were not yet extinct, the old disabilities could not
be relaxed. When he found, in a few more years,
that new men in England classed him as an Irish-
man, because he lived in Ireland, and despised him
accordingly, he grew mad enough to become Irish.
It was the story of Spanish America over again. The
old Spaniard came from Spain and suppressed the
Indians, and carried the banner of Castile over half of
two continents. He was a great mail, with a lavish ap-
preciation of his own greatness. Then he discovered
that the new Spaniard, who had never left Spain,
had got info the habit of regarding him as an Indian,
or a “mere colonial,’’ and didn’t consider him fit to
hold any but the humblest public office in his own
country. The conquistudore found himself scorned by
clerks at Madrid, and scoffed at by underlings at
Cadiz. And in the end the old Spaniard became so
wild that he combined with the Indian to bump the
new Spaniard right into the sea. Ireland happened
to be closer to England than South America to Spain,
so it was easier to send reinforcements. Also, the
boss country was larger than the colony, whereas in
the case of Spain, the mother-land was a fly and
the colony an elephant. As 'a consequence,
the result was different. The old English
were knocked out and largely executed by the new
English in the Tudor days, on a charge of being too
Irish. The new English, now become old and more
or less Irish, had seven devils banned out of them
by Cromwell. Ilis new English became old and
Irish, and were largely dispossessed or disqualified by
William 111. A large number of William lll.’s
English, then regarded as mere Irish —were dispos-
sessed under the _ Encumbered Estates Act in the
early- days--e#--VieTbßiA, -to make room for a fresh
lot of English. And now a considerable section of the
latest lot of English is clamoring for Home Rule.
An attempt was made in the eighteenth century to
pacify Ireland by granting it an independent Parlia-
ment. Unfortunately, the Englishman could not get
rid of the idea that he was the only person who
Knew How To Do Things. So he disqualified all
Roman Catholics, both as members and electors, and
thus ruled out practically all that remained of the
old Irish nation. The Irish Parliament consisted
mostly of Anglicans from Dublin and thereabouts, a
few Scotch Presbyterians from Ulster, and nominees
sent over from England. Because it wag a failure the
Irish nation was generally declared unfit for self-
government. In later years England has repented to
some extent. A wave of humanitarianism has come
over John’s Bull’s country, and, it has handed down
‘(concessions” to Ireland, after the manner of a tall
parent handing down confectionery'to a short infant
off a shelf. It can’t understand why Ireland isn’t
satisfied after all these “concessions.” As a matter
of fact, Ireland has just two grievances. One is that
England still assumes, after making the worst failure
in European history, that it is the.only country that
Knows How To Do Things, and debates profoundly
as to how far Ireland can be trusted to govern itself,
and how far the superior Englishman—the man who
Knows How To Do Things—must intervene. The
other is that Ireland has missed its chance of being
one of the great States of the world. But for the
English slaughters, the English muddles, and the
English craving for uniformity, it might have
20,000,000 people instead of less than 5,000,000. It
might rank with Prussia, instead of being something
less than Bulgaria. Eight hundred years ago it had
half the population of England ; now, after centuries
of English government, it has less than one-ninth.
Its language and literature are mostly gone. Its
status among the nations is gone. It has been
dragged down from its high place among the wealthy
countries of Europe, to a seat among the paupers.
England, self-satisfied and in a hurry, can’t under-
stand how a few years of kindly remarks, inter-
spersed with assurances that John Bull knows best
what kind of fiscal and other policy the adjacent isle
requires, haven’t healed the brbach. And when a
section of the Irish demands that Home Ride shall
include the right to establish a separate Irish’ tariff,
there is a certain feeling of disappointment at the
beastly ingratitude of the whole business.
THE USELESSNESS OF THE WOWSER.
The Philippic of “Henri Singemoine” :
For his size the Wowser makes about three times
more noise than any .other two sections in the com-
munity. Noise becomes unobjectionable when it
transpires on behalf of a cause that is worth while.
But how often does the Wowser raise his strident
voice in advocacy of a great ideal or in protest
against a flagrant wrong? The answer is: Rarely, if
ever. Speaking generally, the indigenous pietist has
always ranged himself against industrial legislation
designed to bring a little more light and comfort into
the lives of those that need such blessings most. For
years he has railed against Socialism, as expressed
in the form of f actory Acts (“interference with the
liberty of the subject ’), Early Closing Acts (“en-
couraging the poor to become idlers and: drinkers”),
increased wages (“mad attempts to abrogate the in-
alienable laws of supply and demand”), and so on.
For as long as one can remember he has stood for the
most provincial variety of Little Australianism, and
for . a particularly degrading brand of Jingoism, as
regards Imperial affairs, the average Wowser still
loathes the thought of an Australian navy, and has a
habit of writing embittered letters to the press con-
cerning the curse of compulsory service. It is not
that he hates war. He is the wildest enthusiast of them
all when Britain adventures forth to collar a fresh
slab of territory, or to slay Boers, niggers, or what,
not for the offence of owning a bit of- land that
lies in the road of British “expansion.” But a Com-
monwealth fleet and a Commonwealth army are stand-
ing rebuttals of his contention that Australia must
rely for the bigger things of life on the outside
world. In the same spirit he is mostly a, Freetrader,
and a passionate upholder of the senseless State Gov-
ernor arrangement, and a barracker for every breed
of human import, from Railway Commissioners down
to Yankee evangelists.
* * * *
Of course, in political matters, such as the fore-
going, the Wowser, unless buttressed by sectarian
support, cuts no more ice than any other reactionary.
But on certain social questions, since a fair-sized body
takes his pretensions to holiness seriously, he should
carry some weight, and, in fact, he does so. What
use is he accustomed to make of his chances? What
good do his ceaseless howls and agitations and pro-
tests do to anyone but himself? The best answer is
to summarise a few of his efforts of the past decade
or so. During all that time he has conducted a
furious campaign against “gambling.” The nett re-
sult is that “two-up,” and, to a certain extent,
“shop” betting have been diminished here and there.
On the other hand, racecourse betting is going
stronger than ever in N. S. Wales and Victoria,
owing (in part, at least) to the Wowser’s advocacy
of the bookmaker’s cause. The foreign racing man,
ousted from America as a result of State legislation,
is already beginning to arrive here (a millionaire
with over 100 thoroughbreds landed in Sydney a few
days ago), and everything points to more business
being done at Randwick, Flemington, and such-like
vast gambling hells, than ever. The Wowser pre-
serves a deathly silence concerning these, the head-
quarters of betting—the places where, i£. the '"dailies
are to be believed, countless criminals are manufac-
tured. But he leaps on Tattersall’s sweeps with
both feet ; and one of his chief objections to boxing
contests is the “disreputable money element” attend-
ing them, and the “disgracefully open betting” that
occurs there. Yet it is not known that anyone was
ever ruined by a sweep, and the money element in
the sport of boxing is the merest trifle by comparison
with that which enters into racing.
* * * #
The Wowser is strong on the evils of “unhealthy
excitement.” That is another of his reasons for assail-
ing boxing and clamoring that picture films depicting
burglaries and bushranging episodes should be severely
censored. Despite which he has not a word to say,
as above-mentioned, against such places as Randwick,
Rosehill, Caulfield, etc., where unhealthy excitement
is wafted round on every breeze. And he lodges no
audible protest when companies like the Daily Tele-
graph concern publish a serial glorifying a notorious
criminal, and advertise it this way:—
“The career of Ben Hall, in ‘The Outlaws of
Weddin Range,’ continues to be as interesting as
ever, and although his raid on Carcoar was unsuc-
cessful, it was, nevertheless, a most daring attempt■”
The Wowser is the self-styled champion of social
purity. He makes an amazing uproar, one way and


tested against the innocuous picture P°« °" ds “ d
hibited in big Melbourne and Sy y
Archbishop Kelly denounced the \ enus in the byu
nev Botanical Gardens. A few days Delore, one
Green, a Methodist circuit missionary, speaking at
Bathurst, said: — ,
“He had had experience in slum life in England,
and knew from statistics that 89 per cent, of the un-
fortunate inmates had gone there through the dance-
room, thus showing that people were made to fall
through the agency of dancing. Christian peopl
dared not dance without opposing the spirit of
Christ, who said, ‘Love your -neighbor as yourself.
* * * *
Anon, the Wowser blithers about the indecency of
surf-bathing, and implores the police to scotch sun-
baking,” and has a few remarks to make about the
impurity of pneumonia blouses, open-work hose and
low-necked frocks. But there is one institution that
he treats with something approaching reverence, it
is, if the most eminent of the sociologists are to be
believed, productive of more immorality in Englisft-
speaking countries than any number of books, pic-
tures, statues and post-cards. No Wowser campaign has
ever been directed against musical comedy, in Jne
Waltz Dream,” the hero leaves his newly-wedded wife
for a total stranger, whom he meets m a beer-garden.
After a highly-suggestive sojourn in a locked sum-
mer-house, with the stranger—an episode which is
preceded by a kiss that is a record in the matter ot per-
severance —the hero is taken back by his spouse, and
all is joy. “The Merry Widow” was an absolute not
of unlawful affection ; ami a good deal of the humor
was supplied bv absurd husbands, who had been be-
trayed, but didn’t know it. And many other in-
stances might be cited. As Havelock Ellis, G. B.
Suaw, Yves Gdyot and others have repeatedly
pointed out, the typical musical comedy, with its
sparsely-clad girls, its sensuous music, and its sug-
gestive situations, dances and dialogue, fairly teems
with incitements to sin. What has Wowserdom ever
sought to do about it ?
There are countless directions in which he who
wowses for a living could expend his surplus energy
and saintliness for the benefit of the community. For
example, instead of wasting time, breath and ipk in
hysterical campaigns against the Ring, the Surf, the
Sabbath sale of soft drinks, etc., he might profitably
throw his influence into the scale with those who are
trying to eradicate syphilis. In Melbourne recently,
according to the Aoe (29/11/’ll), two children who
figured before the Criminal Court, one a boy of 15Jt,
the other a girl of 7-J, were both shown to be
afflicted with the awful complaint. _ The lives of
thousands are being blasted by it, in one way and
another, every week of everv year that passes. The
syphilis problem is admittedly a. big one. But it is
by no means hopeless. Emphatically it is a social
horror that fairly shrieks for attention. And, of
course, the Wowser will not hear.
* * * *
The painful truth is that, regarded as a reformer,
the Wowser is about the most futile and useless cir-
cumstance on earth. His loudest yelps and most em-
bittered curses are reserved for institutions such as
Rome or the Devil, which are, on the face of them,
hopelessly unprofitable things to battle against. When
not employed lambasting these stupendous but remote
foes, the Wowser wars furiously with a host of small
things which don’t matter in the least to anyone.
The real evils, whether in the matter of gambling,
immorality, sweating, oppression, or venereal diseases,
he warily refrains from touching. In short, he is an
impostor where he isn’t a fool, and an ass when he
isn’t a fraud. I would gladly join a society, having
for its object the extirpation of the Wowser. He is
the loudest, most persistent and most bellowdramatic
nagger we have in this countrv, and, calamitously
enough, the exasperating row which he creates doesn’t
even begin to do any good.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Want of Someone Who Will Go the
Whole Hog.
Australia is a great pastoral country, yet
despite all its enterprise in this direction
there is one animal of which the culture is
much neglected. There are of sheep nearly
100,000,000, and something like a dozen mil-
lion cattle, and a couple of million or so of
horses, and the best part of a million pigs.
Goats, also, are frequent though casual;
and cats and dogs are almost past count-
ing; and rabbits are innumerable; and there
are camels and crocodiles. But there should
be found, grazing permanently in the most
commodious paddock the country can furn-
ish, one specimen—one would be enough—
of a rare beast that no nation can get on
without. It doesn’t depend on the seasons ;
all it really requires is moral encourage-
ment. Jt doesn’t need to increase if it is
once properly started, and with proper men-
tal support it will never diminish. The
name of it is the Whole Hog. No country
that means to come out on top can do with-
out this rare specimen. Properly applied it
is, the secret of all national greatness, and
on the other hand, the world is more than
half-filled with shambling races that have
missed the ’bus for want of it. _ It is Aus-
tralia’s misfortune that its legislators are
addicted to devising Whole Hog policies
which, when it comes to matters of detail,
degenerate into Half Hog legislation. The
next stage is .administration which, _ too
often, drops into the abyss of very little
Hog, or even falls down the precipice of no
Hog at all. The defence question is a case
in point. It began with the theory of com-
pulsory military training, and the theory
promised well. This is a very lone outpost
of the white man. It is rich and desirable,
and there is no other rich and desirable
country in the world which has so few
people to defend it. Unlike the two
Americas in their youth, it has come to the
front at a time when an unprecedented in-
crease of population makes the hunger for
rich and desirable countries greater than it
ever was before. It has “arrived'' at a
period when steam makes invasion compara-
tively easy, and when the crowded and ad-
jacent regions of Asia are waking up, and
dreaming great dreams of expansion. On
the face of things, compulsory and universal
military training is more essential to-day
in Australia than it is anywhere else on
earth. For a moment there was an idea
that the Government had realised the vast-
ness of the public necessity, and was going
to go the Whole Hog. Then, unhappily,
the beast began to fade and diminish. Atro-
phy fell heavily upon it. There was far
more anxiety and worry and struggle about
getting the naval base alongside “our” State
capital, and the military headquarters
alongside “our” back door, than about real
defence. The Arms Factory materialised
into one humble little workshop that was to
turn out 15,000 rifles per annum—about as
many as a small army loses in its retreat
after one lost battle, and not nearly suffi-
cient to keep things going in time of pro-
found peace, if there is to be anything like
sufficient shooting practice. And even this
workshop isn’t finished. The training de-
generated into occasional half-day or whole-
day drills. The “universal” service faded
away till nobody was liable to join the ser-
vice unless he was a male “kid,” aged be-
tween 12 and 17 or so. Men were ex-
empted, and boys residing in certain very
extensive thinly-peopled areas were ex-
empted. Recruits with religious scruples
were also exempted. Furthermore, there de-
veloped, almost from the beginning of
’things, a certain dread of compulsion. The
people didn’t complain, but the affable and
apologetic Government doubled up. Appar-
ently it wanted to acquire great advertise-
ment by making compulsory training the
law of the land, yet not to lose the vote of
the parent of the compulsory “kid” who
didn’t want to train —who said, in effect,
that he would see the Government hanged
first. So a curious condition of affairs has
arisen. The allegedly coerced youth attends
drills very much as he feels inclined, and,
within limits, he obeys orders much as he
feels disposed. If he becomes furiously in-
subordinate, and throws old sardine-tins at
his officer, or calls him “cocky,” he is fined
at the police court —at least some of him
have been dragged there and fined. If he
is moderately insubordinate or merely ab-
sent he generallv gets off. His offimn’ has
powers, under the Act, to deal with the
shirker, but he has instructions from the
hesitating Government not to use his
powers. The Attorney-General, it is said,
is going to attend, later on, to matters of
the sort. Whether he ever will do so is un-
certain. On present appearances there will
soon be so many thousand accumulated
cases that he must needs give them
up The law, about which there was
so much fuss, is in a state of more
or less legal or illegal suspension, and
the compulsory training system—what there
is of it —threatens to go to pieces, and the
officers are growing weary of it all. It
would be a blessed circumstance if somebody
would go the Whole Hog for once.
The Financial Cocked Hat of Bumbledom.
The State Frights row over the proposed
Commonwealth Savings Bank grows more
furious, and, as it gets madder, the posi-
tion grows less rational. A Bank owned by
the People is part of the Labor programme,
and the Commonwealth proposes to supply
it because the States didn’t. It can be run
much more economically if the Bank of the
People and the Savings Banks of the People
are made one, and then there will be more
profit for the People—who really ought to
be considered. The State Governments have
borrowed large sums from the State Savings
Banks, but even if these institutions are
taken over by the Commonwealth, they
won’t be asked for immediate repayment.
They will simply have to hand over their
long-dated stock or debentures among the
other securities when they transfer the
shows. On the other hand, if the State
Savings Banks run in competition with the
Federal affair, and the people begin to draw
their money out of the former and put it
in the latter, then McGowen and Co. will
have to find heaps of cash at short notice,
and will fall into great embarrassment.
They are actually looking for embarrass-
ment. The competition between the two
banks will increase expenses and reduce pro-
fits —the profits of the community. There
is not the slightest sign that the people have
any desire for these absurd rows and losses.
Some papers—mostjy Tory—and a number
of politicians, crazed with the vastness of
their own local dignity, have declared that
it is necessary to perish in the last ditch
rather than let the Savings Banks pass
under Federal control, but the people
haven’t backed them by even one public
meeting of a dozen people. It is the case of
the Yassberra capital oyer again—the capi-
tal that everybody was said to be demand-
ing and that nobody cared a straw about.
In Victoria, the Government has now made
alliance with the private banks to fight the
bank of the Commonwealth, and the people’s
good legal tender is -to be dissipated by a
fool Government in a struggle to hinder
and damage the people’s own institution.
And in N.S.W. new offices are being built
by dozens, and new officers being engaged
by hundreds, so that the community in its
State banking capacity may fight itself in
its Federal banking capacity, and do its
utmost to make own bank a failure and a
dead loss. In other words, the N.S.W. State
Labor Government has turned dog on the
principle of Bank Ownership by the People,
just as it has done on the reduction of bor-
rowing, abolition of the State Governor,
abolition of the State Upper House,
the referendum, decentralisation, - and
the public ownership of land. All
this is madness from first to last—the
madness of selfish parish-pump authorities
struggling to maintain the dignity of their
own cocked hats and other gauds of Bumble-
dom. The fact that the people are to pay
for all this absurd cocked hat is a mere
incident.
Signed Journalism.
Next Federal election will find the pressman
batting on a strange wicket. There are, in
future, to be spasms of signed journalism
with limitations, and the chief spasm will be
the interval between the issue and the return
of a writ for the Senate or House of Reps.
A secondary one will be the period just be-
fore a referendum. During these times and
seasons every report, letter or paragraph
dealing with the election or referendum is to
have the full name and address of the writer
attached, so that politicians who feel ag-
grieved can get square with him, either by
legal process or by poisoning his dog, and
infuriated landlords can give him notice to
quit. If it was proposed to make signed
journalism the rule all round, and all the
year round, there would be much to be said
both for and against the innovation. A good
many old, mouldy, respectable, belltoppered
editors of the ex-parsonical kind would lose
much of their importance at the club and
elsewhere, and there would be more room to
pass, because their chests wouldn’t protrude
so far. A good many bright young writers
who have hitherto been blotted out by the
vast presence of the chief would come to sud-
den prominence. Some of them would be-
come widely liked, and some would become
widely disliked. Some would be offered the
Agent-Generalship to get them out of the
way. Some would justly batter the sub-editor
for bringing them into Imtred. ridicule and
contempt, by making foolish alterations in
their copy, and the sub-editor would natur-
ally batter in return. A large number of
writers would disappear —preachers, clerks,
civil servants, members of Parliament, aides-
de-camp, coastal skippers and the like, to
whom the glare of publicity would be fol-
lowed by the shriek of an infuriated em-
ployer, and after that the sack. A lot of
valuable matter would thus b/^ lost, for these
men who have a knowledge of the inside- do-
ings of the salt of the earth are an interest-
ing lot. They know about the awful thin-
ness of the ship’s bottom, and the shoddiness
of the engines; about the Governor’s drinks,
and the bishop’s heresies and best girls, and
the contents of the waste paper basket of the
Premier, and most other remarkable things
beneath the sun. Their dropping out would,
of course, leave more room for the profes-
sional writer, and he would probably make
more money. Also, the bogus professional
writer would get fewer free drinks when
it was found that his name never appeared
and a suspicion arose that he had no vast
press influence to sell after all. The pressman
who was allowed to write what he believed
in would probably like the new arangement;
and the one who wrote tripe because
he had to live, and Fate had planted him on
a tripe paper, might like it. or, again, he
might not. But, after all, these considera-
tions don’t enter into the case. It isn’t pro-
nosed to establish the principle of signed
journalism all round, but just to establish
enough of it to let the maddened politician
know at the most critical moment of his
eareer which pressman said he was unfit
for a decent ape to associate with. The
results will probablv be worse for the man
who criticises a Tory candidate than a
Democratic one. for the Tory candidate can
influence more landlords to raise the press-
man’s rent or fire him out, and he can influ-
ence more rich newspaper proprietors to
blacklist the offender, and withdraw more
advertisements if the proprietor refuses to
do it. Still, it is an interesting experiment,
though, in the case of the pressman with a
very long name and address, and a habit of
writing very short paragraphs, it may lead
to too little reading matter and too much
repetition of some street in Paddington.
♦
A “Time-honored System” which is a
Whole Herd of Lions in the Path of
Progress.
Apropos the usual wild rush of business at
the finish of the session in the Australian
Parliament, Sydney Telegraph said:—
Shareholders in a company would not tolerate such
a wild way of dealing with their financial interests,
and there is no good reason why shareholders in the
country should be asked to put up with it.
This is obviously correct, but it would be
equally correct if applied to the whole sys-
tem of Party Government which this ab-
surdly Tory journal still apologises for.
Shareholders in a company would not toler-
ate for long a system under which it was to
the directors’ interest to avoid doing nearly
all those things which, in the shareholders’
interest, should be done. The safety of
Australia is emperilled to-day, because
party tactics rendered a boy army a safer
proposition, so far as the Government was
concerned, than an army of men with suff-
rages. Party Government-in small things,
as in big ones, is a ceaseless struggle to
please the citizen behind the vote. It is the
deadliest foe that Nationalism has. The im-
porting interests in Parliament and in
journalism meet every effort to build up
Australian industries with anguished yelps
concerning the “fresh load of taxation”
which it is proposed to pile on the weary
shoulders of Labor. These yelps, being loud,
confident and unceasing, have a certain in-
fluence with the frequent class of elector
who isn’t able to grasp that nigger-made
goods and cheap-labor products in general
must be barred entirely from these shores,
in due course, if Australia is to become a
real white man’s land. The politicians no-
tice it, and shove their Protectionist ardor
in the ice-box without delay. They would
like to give Australia an adequate tariff,
but such a thing is not good party business.
With the real Protectionist vote in their
pockets whatever happens they would, from
the “sound party man’s” viewpoint, be fools,
no less, if they neglected to placate the
wavering section which dislikes Freetrade
yet shrinks from genuine High Tariffisin.
Everywhere, in every State, badly-needed
works, reforms, etc., are being held up as a
direct result of the Party Government sys-
tem. The doddering, white-whiskered old
proposal for a bridge to connect Sydney
with the North Shore is one of a thousand
cases in point. Everyone enthusiastically
recognises the necessity for this conveni-
ence. But it is going to be an expensive
affair; and under the Party arrangement
Governments prefer to scatter the cash-
boons at their command in such a way as
shall buy the largest number of votes. The
tragedy, in the case of the Northern Sub-
urbs. is that, politically speaking, they
aren’t elastic enough, so to put it. They are
mostly inhabited by persons with a passion-
ate hunger for respectability and a blind
conviction that “Liberalism” and Respecta-
bility are inseparable. They are about as
likely to vote contrary to the instructions of
the Sydney morning dailies as a sheep is to
build its nest in the tree-top. “Liberalism”
has nothing to gain by pleasing them, Labor
nothing to lose by flouting them, and so the
big money is spent in the constituencies
which have the nous to be doubtful quanti-
ties. This genteel form of bribery and cor-
ruption on a monstrous scale, has been fol-
lowed by successive Governments in regard
to every conceivable issue from Decentrali-
sation down to tne mending of a culvert at
Dead Man’s Corner. Yet no vast body of
the public arises and puts its collective
paw on the fount and origin of the insane
and dishonest business, and insists on its
removal. It suggests that the public isn't
half as brainy and perceptive in its political
capacity as it .s in its shareholding capa-
city.
* —
About the same time as Pie Commissioner
Reid’s annual report arrived in Australia
bulging with appreciation of his new “pub-
licity department” in Loudon, the Daily
Mail, which is published in that bloated
village, was engaged in making it (the pub-
licity department) look a very ragged
agency. In its issue of 14/10/’ll the Mail
blossomed as follows :
(1) Christmas is coming. There is less than a
fortnight in which vve can send parcels to Fiji if
they are to arrive in time. Parcels for Nyassaland,
also, must be despatched soon. Borneo and Bolivia,
Chile, Queensland, Siam and other districts give us
until the first week in November for parcels.
2) Australia’s Gift Horse for the King to Ride in
the Durbar. —The horse which the Australian Govern-
ment is presenting to the King to ride in the Delhi
Durbar arrived at Liverpool on Wednesday. During
the voyage Brisbane (the prad’s name) was given
just ordinary stable food.
Now, if Greid’s publicity department had
been attending to its job the Daily Mail
would have known (1) that the gift horse
was not from Australia but from Queens-
land, which is a district between Chile and
Siam; (2) that the animal was not fed on
mere oats, chaff and other ordinary stable
food during the voyage, but on strawberries
and cream with roast omelettes twice a
week, and that it drank only fried water.
«♦
“George Mack” : One of the numerous
valuable lessons inculcated by the Pea-
cock case is the colossal pull the
rich man has over the poor in the
criminal courts. (That the rich man
has all the best of things in the civil courts
is a point that no one questions.) “To no
man will we sell, or deny, or delay right or
justice.” Away back in 1215, the Great
Charter laid that down. And what a jest it
is! Suppose that, instead of Dr. Peacock,
the accused person whom C.J. Madden and
the jury found guilty and sentenced to
death, had been-some poor devil of a John
Smith, without a friend and without a five
pound-note in the world. Where would
John Smith be now? Ask the Church,
which knows all about the Here-
after. And any hint that his trial had not
been all it might have been would have
drawn from the Right-Thinking section the
upraised eyebrow and the voice of rebuke
and a sharp reminder of the rock on which
British Justice is founded. Criminal Jus-
tice, as things are now, is a mighty dear
commodity—in fact, one might term it a
luxury. The State provides for the defence
in the Supreme Court of persons presented
on a capital charge. It goes no farther. If
the Supreme Court Judge makes grave tech-
nical blunders, and tbe accused is thereby
convicted, that is his bad luck. The pointed
sword, the bandage, and the scales are all
so much empty make-believe. It is the
credit balance that counts. For the appeal,
in Sydney before the High Court, in the
Peacock case, one leading barrister on
the appellant’s side had his brief
marked at 100 guineas. He received 150
guineas to go to Sydney from Melbourne,
and, in addition, refreshers of 50 guineas a
day. And he was only one of the expensive
“stars” in the grim production. Had lesser
lights argued it, the case might have gone
differently. No, you don’t buy justice ; you
only buy the man who knows how to get it
for you or to prevent the other fellow getting
it against you.
♦
From an infuriated Victorian: —
The other day the howl of protest, which is pretty
well chronic in regard to the gradualness of the trains
in the Weary State, rose to a somewhat higher pitch
than usual, and, by way of stilling it, Minister of
Railways Billson issued a sort of manifesto. It
took the form of a time-table showing that the Vic.
trains had only recently been “speeded up” to a
wonderful extent. Between Bendigo and Echuca (a
distance of 55 miles) 40 minutes had been clipped off
the time. Between Bendigo and Wvcheproof (90
miles) an hour had been taken off. Between Swan
Hill and Kerang (35 miles) a reduction of 59min.
had been made; between Wooddnd and Daylesford
(27 miles) a reduction of 46min. ; between Ararat
and Hamilton (66 miles) a reduction of 39min.
Other reductions went to 95min. on a 245-mile jour-
ney, and 66min. on a 250-mile journey. And of all
these boons the bulk of the travelling public had re-
mained totally ignorant. The fact is, of course, that
Victorian brains are so unutterably slow that a small
reduction like an hour is never noticed. It sounds a
lot, but it means little. What is wanted is a Minister or
a set of Commissioners who will cut half a day off
some of the running times, and send out engines and
rolling-stock which are fit to run at the pace. As
things are, it is only the execrable condition of the
main roads of Victoria which prevents the travelling
public from walking, or taking a cab. On the rare
occasions when engine-drivers attempt to shake things
The State Patriot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The patriot’s swelling presence fills the
seat;
Rock-fast for all his rights, he swears
aloud ;
He feels the stout linoleum ’neatli his feet;
He hears the footsteps of the hurrying
crowd —
The crowd that hurries up and down the
State
Where tall rents wave and brick-bound har-
vests wait.
Australian pirates sail his narrow seas ;
Australian robbers plunder half his store ;
With furious zeal he strokes his fatted
knees,
And ever loves his country more and more;
He feels his shirt-front swell with growing
hate
Of every foreigner beyond the State.
George-street and Pitt-street and the bricks
between,
With bustling fringes half a mile around —
This is his country, and he does not mean
To yield one wood-block of the holy ground ;
Beyond the scarlet posts where tramcars
wait
Dwell the fierce foes who war upon the
State.
Let wild reformers hem his country round,
He will not yield nor let his feet grow cold,
His sacred heritage within the sound
Of the Post Office chimes shall not be sold ;
Brave in the face of time and clamorous
fate,
He sits to guard the honor of the State.
Speak not of far-spread continental lands,
Of shining hopes beneath a wider sun ;
His golden hope on brick-built Sydney
stands,
The place to which all thoughtful railways
run ;
Let outland men of Federation prate.
He brooks no rival to his place and State.
For him Australia is a word of dread,
A terror in the darkness and the morn,
A place of evil full of devils red,
Whose talons at his bank account have
torn —-'
The awful Commonwealth within his gate
Pushes reforms in spite of Fat and State.
But while his swelling presence fills the
seat,
Ilis patriot anger shall not cease to flame,
Sacred to him is every crooked street,
And still he sweareth by the holy name
Of Sydney where his brick-bound harvests
wait,
And Johnson’s pleasant tramways cross
the State.
N.S.W.
MARY McCORMMONWEALTH.


TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
GOOD FILMS.
Don’t waste your time looking for
a Better Film Library than
HARRINGTON’S,
Because IT DOESN’T EXIST.
»///;
KS
m
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON.NZ.
SSOKQ
SQUASH
MADE FROM
LEMONS ONLY
SHOWMEN ! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
THE “ KISSEL KAR.
“ Every Inch a Car. ” Beautifully Balanced.
Gracefully Designed. Reasonable in Price.
Economical in Use, and Absolutelyßeliable.
Sole Agents :
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“Great Scott, It’s Hot!”
Let us get something cool and nice.
Franz Josef for Preference
YES!
Franz Josef
Lag'er Beer
EVERY TIME.
up they mostly butt into other trains with calamitous
results. It is seriously related that a frenzied mes-
sage was received from a stationmaster 50 miles
from Melbourne the other day, as follows: —“Express
arrived on time; what shall I do?” The authorities
wired back: “Check tickets slowly: take half an
hour.” All Spencer-street is disorganised on the rare
occasions when an express crashes in within 20
minutes of schedule time.
How the Brain of the Legislative
Councillor Works.
In the House of Ancient Landlords, in Vic-
toria, there has been much strenuous though
seniile opposition to the Government’s pro-
posal to build coo'l stores of its own, wherein
the chilled rabbit may sleep, or the frozen
lamb linger in pendent meditation, or the
butter harden its heart before starting on
the long voyage which ends in the stomach
of the true-born Englishman. This step
has been made necessary partly by the rent
charged by the City Council (which has
cold storage works), and partly by the fact
that the producer, that stout exponent of
Anti-Sosh, would rather deal with the Gov-
ernment than with Ms old friend, Private
Enterprise. The Socialistic scheme went
through the House of Landlords by two
votes, but not until wild protests had been
made by the most venerable among them.
These . white-whiskered guardians of their
country’s weal brought witnesses to the
House, and asked them long and foolish
questions, which betrayed, weirdly, what
reckless fancies go dashing through the mind
of a Legislative Councillor. The cold stores
are to be built near the Victoria Dock, on
soft “made” ground, and, therefore, they
are to rest on what the engineers call “rafts”
of reinforced concrete. There are to be two
rafts, _ each 560 ft. by 80ft., and from 15in.
to 18in. thick. On hearing these facts, the
most cautious veteran among them all, old
Donald Melville, cross-examined the wit-
nesses at length on two dangers which had
occurred to his nimble brain. First, would
the concrete rafts float away if a flood came?
Second, in case of a plague of rats, would
the rats eat their way through the concrete
floors? The spectacle of 89,600 square feet
of reinforced concrete spinning down the
Yarra to the bay was a horrifying one; and
The Bulletin will never again sleep
soundly in Melbourne, since it knows how
the rats chew their wicked way through iron
and steel. These things are ridiculous, but
they are an allegory. They show exactly
the perils at which the Tory mind is con-
stantly shuddering. The squeal that a State
Bank could not be established without being
overwhelmed by a flood of discredit and
depreciation, and forthwith floating away
to destruction, was exactly the squeal of
old Donald Melville, who saw the con-
crete foundations of a huge building swirling
seaward on the Yarra’s turbid wave. The
rats which will gobble bars of cold iron are
the Insidious Influences, and the Ultimate
Dangers which the Tory perceives whenever
the State attempts any action at all. Mel-
ville is not more absurd than his brethren.
He only puts into material language the
fears which his companions entertain and
express in all abstract propositions.
*.
Consider the question of Bags, and their
bearing on the alleged Protective tariff of
Australia. The Commonwealth is practi-
cally the only country on earth that doesn’t
make its own bags. Wheat, chaff, flour,
gunny, ore and woolpacks—we import them
all, to the tune of £1,603,394 or thereabouts
per annum; and last year £1,557,277 worth
came from black labor countries, such as
India, Java and the Straits Settlements.
The majority of them are built in Calcutta,
in the factories of a combine, by colored
men and women, working 12 hours per day,
and colored children working six hours, all
for what the Australian would consider a
despicable wage. Do Messrs. Fisher and
co. expect Australian manufacturers and
workers to compete without Protection
against that sort of thing? Presumably they
do, since there is no sign of the Australian
Government moving in the direction of a
duty on these articles. The encouragement
of this industry in Australia would not hurt
the farmer. Argentina has a bag duty of
40 per cent., Canada one of 35 per cent., and
the United States one of 45 per cent.; and
their farmers flourish exceedingly. Last
year the United States imported £3,126,000
worth of bagging cloth, and only £36,000
worth of bags-—and even from that
paltry amount it reaped more revenue
than Australia did from its £1,600,000
Worth. So Australia loses revenue, loses
work, and gets its bags no whit
cheaper, as shown by trade quotations
and by the fact that the countries named
can compete with it in the world’s wheat
and flour markets. In the last tariff pro-
nouncement Minister Tudor gave it to be
understood that he was “rectifying those an-
omalies” that had been pointed out, and, in
cases where relief had been sought and his
conditions complied with. The trouble with
“bags” is that, for the reasons above stated,
there aren’t any manufacturers to point out
the anomaly, but it is there none the less.
In fact, so long as the unrestricted importa-
tion of black-labor-made bags continues the
whole White Australia policy is an anomaly.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SUOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
R° YAIj “The Girl in the Train.”
Criterion “Lady Frederick.”
Adelphi “ His Majesty’s Guesrs.”
Palace “ Inconstant George.”
Lyceum Silencer's Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Cc.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Uc.
k YRIC .. Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Under Two Flags.”
Her Majesty’s “ Sinbad the Sailor.”
*^ OYAI ' “Everywoman."
“ England’s Hope.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium .. Kinemacolor.
West’s Palace . .■ West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Esplanade, St. Kilda.. The Follies.
“Our Miss Gibbs” arrived at Her Maj-
esty’s (Sydney) on Saturday night to once
more season the Christmas goose and drop
another peach or two into the Christmas
pudding. There was, however, no instant
and conspicuous demand for the condiment;
and though Sydney ,may presently call in
for a spoonful* no\yf and then, it looks as
'though it will do it in the spirit in which
Father of Fourteen so far unbends at this
season of Grease and Bluepills as to take
a sip of the sherbet he smacked his lips
over in his furious and fizzy past. Naturally
sherbet doesn’t seem the nectar that it did,
and it is much the same with Miss Gibbs.
Perhaps she isn’t the same. Most likely
Miss Blanche Browne • has poured herself
out so often that she got tired of bub-
bling. Almost anybody would. This writer,
after saying 'for 10 months or so that Miss
Gibbs was still doing well, confesses that he
didn’t exactly sparkle himself; and he only
had to say it once a week instead of six
times. Miss Brown’s accessories are mostly
the old conspirators, mainly with the same
virtues, and often with the old faults grown
more conspicuous. Thus the humor of
Bertie Wright, who is still Miss Gibbs’s
little bit of old York, seems to need sub-
editing more than ever. It isn’t so much
that he says too much as that he says it too
often. Miss Calvin is nowadays the hard-
up lady who sends Miss Gibbs scouting for
credit, and Frank Stirling is the magnificent
shop-walker person who gives it to her;
Connie Milne is the dainty little lady who
wants to marry the amateur cracksman, and
Leslie Holland is the cracksman; and it is
a good holiday show, and all the better, be-
cause Ivy Schilling and Fred Leslie still drop
their Vaurien dance into the 10.30 end of it.
** * *
The best thing doing at the Adelphi this
week is a juggling turn by Redfern and
Winchester. Between them they play some
very clever tricks. While Redfern (or Win-
chester) is doing his best to make the house
laugh, Winchester (or Redfern) is making
it hold its breath with both hands. “The
Famous Pony Ballet” also appears. In this
scene six females wear green tights, which
would look better if Mrs. Adelphi Theatre
took a morning off and darned them. Where
the “pony” comes in, The Bulletin doesn’t
know. Perhaps it is a delicate allusion to
a November nightmare. Miss Geary appears
in a clever toe-dance, and deserves the ap-
plause and recalls she gets for it. This is
SYDNEY HOSPITAL CENTENARY
CARNIVAL.
“SNOWY" BAKER SEARCHING FOR
AN AUSTRALIAN VENUS.
all that is worth mentioning, except for a
fleeting reference to “His Majesty’s Guests,”
which appears between whiles. It seems to
revolve around the attempts of several
policemen to avoid arrest at the bands of
several burglars, and vice ver.sa. It also
deals with the actions of a harmless parson,
two professional shoplifters, a small boy, a
German shopwalker, a very up-to-date lady
and a sergeant. Robert White, as Sergeant
Lightning, is the prop of the show, and is
hereby noted for promotion, or if he de-
oides instead to retire and keep a pub, The
Bulletin will mention him favorably to all
the poets it knows. George Story, as the
parson, Rev. Minks, earns a halo of the
fifth degree; and Connie Emerald, as Miss
Manley, the up-to-date lady, is well received
for her singing and dancing.
** * *
The new Tivoli turns for this week come
on a few hours after this Bulletin starts
off; consequently, the critic’s pen remains
for the present amicably sheathed in the re-
mains of the Christmas pudding. The new
people are Emerson and Baldwin (club jug-
gling comedians), and Henriette and Selina
(society entertainers), and this paper re-
mands them for seven days. Artist Bert
Levy provides the most interesting section
of the present bill. Wilson Hallett’s crying
baby and small invisible family are amusing,
except when the small invisible girl sings
“Daddy,” and Hallett shakes his head sadly
at an empty, limelit armchair. His mouth is
working all the time. -~d the: spectator won-
ders whether he is overcome with emotion
or is furtively threatening the ghostly
youngster with punishment unless she stops
the row. Of the other performers, Dave
Samuels is more acceptable as a lovesick
organ-grinder than as a crushed Hebrew;
and George 1., the Du For Trio and trick
cyclists Henry and Hinde help the clock on
its journey towards 11.
At Sydney Royal “Tne Girl in the Train”
and her delightful colleagues continue to
bring joy to the crowd and cash to the com-
bine. Barring a collision or derailment or
some such utterly unlikely catastrophe, she
will pursue the even soprano of her way till
further notice.
** * *
The National Amphitheatre burst forth
last week into a “Mammoth Holiday Pro-
gramme.” The star features of it are Oava-
lieri, a particularly adroit--quick-change
artist; Gus Harris,- the Hebrew songster
referred to in this journal last week; and
King and Mallard, who perpetrate a divert-
ing sketch.
* * * * .1
The usual congregation, made up largely
of suburban choir maidens and the suburban
choir maidens of other days, thronged Syd-
ney Town Hall for the pre-Christmas pro-
duction of “The Messiah.” Joseph Bradley
waved his hands in front of the full strength
of a Philharmonic choir that any city might
be proud of, and, though Ben Davies and
Esta D’Argo—who is Miss Hettie Holroyd in
plain Australian—occupied two of the four
upholstered chairs in front of the choir’s
plain bentwbodSj a couple at least of the
choruses, including the “Hallelujah,” com-
pared well enough with any of the solo
numbers. It was impossible not to set up
the “Messiah” production of the Sheffield
Choir as a standard, and by comparison that
much-boomed travelling co.’s volume was
puny. Ben Davies, the Welsh tenor, with a
voice of marvellous strength, put extraor-
dinary feeling into his work; and the bass,
Mr. A. K. Jamieson, though spirited enough,
suffered through having to appear alongside
so robust a singer. Miss Josie Miles, the
contralto, succeeded better in the great “He
was Despised” number than her previous
lifeless solos had led one to. expect; and
Miss Holroyd cut up the solo honors with
the Welsh tenor.
Dickon’s Christmas Carols, “Pathe’s
European Gazette,” and “Making Pianos”
were the chief baits offered to holiday-
makers by the Lyric during the week, and
many a time the net was in peril of burst-
ing with the weight of the haul. The change
to-night will bring “Rope-Making in Kent,”
“Pictures from French East Africa,” and
“The Amor of Fire.”
Among Colonial No. l’s
promises are “Pictures
from Holland”; “Grant
and Lincoln,” Yankee-
land’s two statesmen;
and “Pictures of Guern-
sey and Sark,” with the
usual comics. The eighth
edition of 1 the Turco-
Dago war * pictures was
shown during the week.
At Colonial No. 2 there
are “British Birds of
Prey”—the species that
feather their bodies and
not their nests; “Break-
ing in a Colt,” one of the
intermli n a b le “Wild
West” films; a new
drama, “Lost in the
Jungles,” and a quantity
of lighter material.
** * *
The new comedy—christened “Inconstant
George,” presumably by Gladys Unger,
who turned it out of what was no doubt hot
French, and dished it as somewhat luke-
warm English—-which the Plimmer-Dennis-
ton Co. produced at the Sydney Palace on
Saturday night, fell under the cold eye of
suspicion when it was boomed as “the great
pyjama play.” Quite a large number of
plays, comedies and other shows which have
gone the way of small profits and no returns
have got into bed publicly, or out of bed
brazenly, or stayed in bed irritatingly, or
walked about in nighties. And in most
cases the show was of no interest to any-
body but the pub-navigator crowd yund the
corner, who had to keep the pumps running
a banker all night to supply the theatre cus-
tomers, who were driven to fall back on long
sleevers for the 'thrill. Still, things are not
as bad as that with “Inconstant George.”
In fact, they are a good deal better;
and the show has more to recommend
it than nocturnal overalls. There is some
bright dialogue placed conveniently for holi-
day audiences, and the complications of
the love affairs of I. George—which pro-
vide the whole and entire story—have
sufficient humor on occasion to make
the eternally-bored .dress circle chap-
erones sit up and shake a reef out of their
usual aspect of cold reserve. Which shows
that the Wade Farcical Co. is not the only
wildly humorous combination at large.
Harry Pldmmer and Lizette Parkes get
most of the “fat” in the piece, and mo irre-
parable harm is done thereby. Mrsl> Brough,
Beatrice Day, Valentine Sidney, Harry
Sweeney, A. E. Greenaway, and Reynolds
Denniston help to push the cart along, and
they do it without reproach for the most
part. They will continue to do so until the
vehicle breaks down or sits on its tail, and
refuses to go any further. When that hap-
pens, some of Harry Whaite’s most. artistic
scenic work will no longer be on vifew.
** * *
The new Williamson panto., known as
“Sinbad the Sailor,” seems fated to go on
unfolding its magnificence at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne) until the chilly breath of next
autumn blows through the sliding roof. It
is a dream of pink fleshings and delicately-
blended colors, interspersed with wild mon-
strosities and notes of reasonable humor.
Generally speaking, the action is more droll
and less acrobatic than in pantos of the past.
No part of the joint is overdone. Dances
and marches are not unduly frequent or pro-
longed, bounding gnomes are conspicuously
absent, and the inevitable Dame (Pip
Powell) is a comparatively feminine person,
who makes none of the usual references to
her deceased husband, she being the wife of
Sinbad aforesaid, with a daughter (Nell Fin-
nis) of marriageable age. The Dame’s one
fleeting thought of indiscretion occurs when
She disrobes herself aboard ship, and suggests
that her robe de nuit ought to favorably im-
press the second engineer, but all possibility
of scandal is avoided by a shipwreck which
lands the voyagers in a Diamond Valley,
where a prehistoric reptile opens its mouth
and disgorges a choice assortment of girls. A
ballet in the Valley closes the first act with
a bang.
* * * *
Subsequently comes more ballet, with visions
of fairies flying overhead. Two of them fly
over the stalls, flashing their limbs to the
upturned eyes of mortals who are looking for
trouble. An interruptive item 'is supplied by
the Sleeds —three men in white suits who fool
with things that spring from nowhere and
vanish just as illusively, and who leave
Amazement scratching its head when they
pass away in a burst of applause. Finally,
there is an emblematical procession, sup-
ported by a supernatural pudding in the rear,
and then the triumph of the panto is com-
plete. One thinks of it as a well-balanced
spectacle, wherein the jokes are not obtru-
sively out of place, and the splendor never
grows oppressive for want of comic relief.
Frank Lincoln as Sinbad, Fred Winn as a
wandering Emperor of Sahara, Celia Ghiloni
as a Katashaic Fatima, and Florence Ime-
son and Nell Finnis as principal “boy” and
girl, give a musical comedy tone to the
vagrant narrative. O. E. Lennon, from
Britain, plays the Old Man of the Sea with
old pantomimic force; the ingenious Dog is
stuffed with William Hassan; and an im-
ported pair of humorists—Drew and Alders
—represent two types of sailors that never
were on land or sea. Also, the imposing
brunette, Marie Eaton, is a charmingly melo-
dious fairy, whose top-note soars to Heaven,
and the Camel and the costumes are worthy
of the scenery. Coleman is responsible for
most of the beauty of the backgrounds, but
the name of George Upward is attached to at
least one fine scene, and Leslie Board had a
brush in the proceedings.
** * *
At the Opera House the turn of Hanvarr
and Lee is newer than most of the others on
the programme. Hanvarr is a neat jfiggler
and Lee is a genial young woman who also
juggles passing well, but is chiefly commend-
able for a marked feminine sense of humor.
Her fooling is quite admirable. Among a
lot of other people, previously referred to,
the amphibious Finneys continue to be the
most interesting.
❖ * sfc :j:
“Under Two Flags,” the story of a man’s
noble idiocy and a woman’s noisy devotion,
still draws the sniffle of sympathy from an
unsophisticated gallery at the Princess’s.
This paper finds it impossible to feel any
sympathy for Bertie, having a horrible sus-
picion that he enjoys being a martyr, so
that he may look sadly beautiful, and talk
about “keeping me word of honor.” As for
Cigarette, the present scribe can overlook
her rowdiness and general jumpiness, but he
can’t forgive the loquacity of a vivandiere
who answers the simplest question with a
whirling oration. So far, this paper has
heard no rumor of a desire upon the part of
Bertie to cease being a martyr, hence those
in search of mental and emotional stimulus
may continue to regard the Princess’s as
their Mecca until further notice.


STT p One of the World’s
■ CL Vf IV Great PIANOS,
EXTRACT, taken from the Life of Robert Schumann,
By VOV WASIELEWSKI, Page 12.
“The greatest ecstasy was caused by the arrival of
a Grand Piano, in Schumann’s house, made by the
celebrated STECK, from Vienna.”
Every STECK Piano manufactured is a perfect in-
strument. The world’s leading musicians said so
50--years'ago—they still say so to-day. The STECK
does not rely solely on a reputation made in the
past, it relies mainly on its present musical excel-
lence. Its purity of tone and easy responsiveness of
action are a revelation to prospective piano pur-
chasers, who immediately recognise the STECK as
an instrument of altogether exceptional merit.
THESE PIANOS CAN BE HAD FOR CASH
OR ON EASY TERMS.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
252 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q.N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
New Shipments of STECKS monthly
in Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut,
Rosewood, Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony.
Insure
with the
. n : '
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*■" •/ INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
, PITOT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
raiEr*Xccft>ENT, Employers’ liability, plate glass, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’ Phone No. 23G Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
The Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act.
Sold Everywhere.
Pint Bottles,
1/3
The latest Bilandersomian drama, “Eng-
land’s Hope,” came to pass at the King
on Saturday night. Bernard Espinasse,
an Australian domiciled in the li og, is tne
cause of the present disturbance, whine Kege
Robins, who fixed up the scenery, as en-
titled to all the ..praise or blame due to an
important accomplice. The nautical atmos-
phere of the drama is more exhilarating
than its occasional bursts of jingoism, llie
latter produce the same depressing effect as
an Empire Day oration by Bruce Smith or
a personal explanation in regard to ‘certain
misrepresentations” by Wade. However,
the gloom is lifted when Bert Bailey comes
on and, shivers his timbers, or does some-
thing equally characteristic of a true bloke
of the Bulldog breed. The hero, Rodney
Shannon, a scion of the sea, whose strength
is 'as the strength of 10 Spanish onions, be-
cause his heart is “pewer,” is played by
Roy Redgrave, who is as beautiful as he is
good. As compensation for much injustice
he is given the hand of Beatrice Armitage
(Miss Eugenie Duggan), in whom all the
fireside virtues are pleasingly combined.
Ned Duggan endeavors to look like the
British Consul at Algiers, and a number of
other persons try hard to assume a nautical
gait and impress one with the idea that the
rolling deep has been their 'abode ever since
their infant eyes first saw the light of day.
Their success is less emphatic than some of
the costumes worn by the lady members of
the company.
❖* * *
A juvenile panto, “Little Red Riding
Hood,” the work of veteran Johnny Wal-
lace, eventuated at the King’s on the after-
noon of Boxing Day. The story of the in-
fant who, failing to find the wolf at the
door, went out and encountered it on the
broad highway is helped along with numer-
ous quips, dances, marches, songs and sun-
dries. _ In fact, in tne present production,
Sundries is. almost as important as he is in
the expenses account of a premier football
team. Johnny Wallace really uses the
stage rs a pulpit, and in “Little Red Riding
Hood” preaches a powerful sermon in
favor of bringing- wolves under the Thistle
Act. In particular, they should not be
allowed to wander about after dark, or a
convivial Fatman, returning from a special
meeting of the lodge, might mistake one of
them for the Sosh tiger, which would be liable
to next morning drive 14st. more of Capital
out of the country. Among the performers
who help to dispel the sorrow induced by
these reflections are Nellie McGuire, who
appears as the Scarlet Infant; Lily Clarke,
who, as Boy Blue, further complicates the
color scheme; and Phyllis Hill, who carries
the wand of the Fairy Queen.
For the nippers who are under six and
over 60, West’s Melbourne picture house has
been starring “The Little Princess’s Christ-
mas Gift,” which film is a mixture of bellow-
drama and miracle play. One character in
the cast is the Savior, who steps out of the
gloom and performs a resurrection act. The
yarn of Miss Quayle and John Tornado has
been sharing the big type with the damsels
ln .^ e . an nual beauty competition. The
ladies in the latter are variously lovely, and
give a charming display of the retrousse
noses that are to be fashionable this season.
Wreathed in smiles and touched with pow-
der, some of these features are exceedingly
kissabie.
* * *
At the Prahran Lyric (Vie.), last week,
Hugos Herman! glode across the big Mack
screen, and made eyes at Do-- Sol. This
aged yarn of passion and poison was nicely
filmed .by a Dago co., and rather pleasantly
acted by Dago mimes. “Fifty Years After,”
another good film' from the land of the ice-
cream merchant and the barrel organ, told
of some exciting moments in the Italo-Aus-
tnra.ii scrap of 1859. Just now, Ihe Ijyric
is screening Dickens’s “Christmas Carol,” ac-
companied by a descriptive oration from
manager Upton-Browne.
** * *
t , A 't Melbourne Royal, the somewhat tedious
morality play” of “Everywoman” offers its
discordant allegories alike to the saints who
take the story seriously, and the sinners who
don t. This journal sits among the miserable
sinners, and finds the show interesting in
spots only. The doctrines of “Everywoman”
smack of the pulpit when they are not abso-
lutely redolent of that dull dog, Wowser.
Moreover, they are based on the extraor-
dinary assumption that the average female
lollows a theatrical career in quest of Love,
and loses all her modesty as soon as she en-
counters Passion’s kiss, which is a severe
reflection on married ladies in general, not
forgetting parsons’ wives. As compared
with the genuine, majestic, old piety play of
Everyman,” devised by holy medieval monks
tor simple believers, the gaudy melodramati-
cism of Everywoman” looks very like a
piece of Yankee bluff. Its central idea of
Love is swathed in mystery. Like the lan-
guage of the Game Chicken in “Dombey and
kon, its meaning is obscure. The emotion
seemingly, is neither maternal, filial, amor-
ous nor platonic. It is just one of those
things that Nobody can understand, Nobodv
being Fardley Turner, clothed in green
limelight and a shroud, and doing his artistic
best to bring the Ghost of Gimlet’s father
up to date. All the same, it is the bounden
duty of all inquisitive citizens to see “Every-
woman”: one way or other they can be
entertained by this play in five canticles.
Wherefore, The Bulletin’s injunction to
the public is, “Prithee, do not tarry, lest
thou should’st miss the ’bus!”
“EVERYWOMAN," AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Truth (a Witch): Emma Temple.
Father Time orders Youth off the earth.
“Jean Sibi,” from Melbourne: —
The Prahran municipal library is now the tem-
porary abode of some of Baldwin Spencer’s treasures
in black and white drawing. The pictures are
mostly from the Pan-haunted pen of Norman Lindsay,
but include a couple of Phil May efforts, and one or
two etchings by Melbourne men. The Lindsay work
is curiously representative. There is a study of Bill
Bluegum, the Lindsay bear, endowed with evening
togs and other evidences of civilisation. Next door
scowls a Lindsay kid, and underneath is “The Lauda-
tion of Dionysius,” in which there are a lot of lovely
nymphs some centuries too primitive for their
clothes. Lindsay, in his fabulous manner, is adver-
tised by some plots of Bristol board, over which riot
the delightful monstrosities of ancient myth. In
these productions the Pans, centaurs and satyrs are
stuffed with gleeful vitality, and they romp in typi-
cally Lindsay scenes, where not even the grass is out
of drawing. “Satan Fallen” is one of the artist’s
modern conceptions, showing him with his hand and
his mind brought up to date ; while in “Red John of
Hazlingden” he displays his gifts as a romantic
illustrator. His other works in the show include the
illustrations to the “JMves o’ Spring,” and a humor-
ous snapshot of a, cuddle in a garden, with a weird
Lindsay curate disappearing in the distance.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos ancient pubs of
Melbourne and “The Comedy of Errors” (B.
7/12/’ll). The Antipholi were Fanny Young; (Mrs.
G. W. Daniels) and Mrs. Winterbotham, not Miss
Mortimer. The latter, poor woman, was killed through
falling downstairs at the Star Hotel, in Swanston-
street. She was known as “the first Mrs. Harwood.”
As Sydney grows more bloated, Wilson’s
Street Directory becomes more valuable.
The 10th annual issue, now available, runs
to over 500 pages, and not only localises all
the streets in all the suburbs, but also con-
tains a street plan of each suburb.
J. H. Chinner, of the Adelaide suburban
“city” of Unley, has just averted a peril that
threatened the .whole tribe of mayors. In
view of the fact that he bears that local
honor, he went out and tested the fire-bri-
gade by sounding a call when there was no
fire. The brigade came, dashing up, and
smashed a bicycle leaning against a kerb.
The owner demanded damages. Chinner, as
a matter of high policy, resisted the claim.
The owner then put it to a court that if a
mayor plays unnecessary games, he must
pay for all the consequences, however un-
foreseeable. But the Court thought it must
be the Act of God—at any rate, it wasn’t
the act of Chinner.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The music-hall position' in London is getting more
farcical than ever. The Theatrical Managers’ Asso-
ciation has, at latest, got the Hippodrome fined £BO
for engaging Rejane and Leoncavallo to do “stage
plays.” There used to be an understanding that any
“sketch” under 40 minutes and seven characters
shouldn’t count, but it was only an understanding,
and the Theatrical Managers’ Association has can-
celled it. Legislation to end the muddle, and put
theatre and hall on the same footing, is expected
confidently. Meanwhile, every actor who does a
“turn”, at an English “hall” —and nearly all of them
do nowadays—in committing an illegal act, and can-
not sue for his salary if it should happen to be un-
paid.
“Ami” writes in an interesting but discursive
fashion about Australia’s old stage friend, Kyrle
Bellew: “Harold Dominic Kyrle Bellew came to Mel-
bourne in 1872. He had been a sailor or petty officer
in the Indian Ocean and elsewhere. His hardships
were considerable in Melbourne at first. It is said
he was starving in St. Patrick’s once, at early morn-
ing, when the priesthood relieved him. He came
under public notice as lecturer with a Franco-German
panorama, at the Waxworks. Then he became a
Herald reporter. The friendship of the ever-kind
Walstab got him into the best literary societjL His
grotesque police court reports were admired. He
changed to the Daily Telegraph. An unsuitable
marriage worried him, and he was for three mouths
in the Alfred Hospital. Then he shipped for London
as third officer of the Thomas Stephens. He went
upon the stage as Harold Kyrle, but did. not draw
attention until Irving brought him forward as Osric
in ‘Hamlet.’ Yet that scope would not satisfy his
ambition. He was away from Irving for many years,
but returned to play the imaginary sqh of Robes-
pierre in Sardou’s drama. In the interval, Bellew,
under his own name, had done splendidly, though he
never could be called a great actor. To my mind he
never brought out all that was in him! I think he
could have acted Hamlet as well as H. B. Irving.
Bellew somewhat disappointed me iiuvsßomeo. His
Charles Surface was pretty good. His Shyloclc had
gleams. In ‘The Corsican Brothers’ he pleased
many. The young ladies naively liked him in his
decollete collar as Fabien dei Franchi.y While still
youngish he was the matinee idol of New York, fol-
lowing George Rignold. Yet Bellew was best in
playing just the easy old-glove resemblance of him-
self as in ‘The Ironmaster’ and ‘Francillon.’ His
Rafflles was matchless. Curious how exactly the,
white, thick curly head of Kyrle reproduced that of
his father, the Rev. J. C. M. Bellew, author of the
‘Charlotte Corday’ drama, in which liyrle and Potter
appeared. Their drama of ‘Hero and Leander’ was
Kyrle’s own authorship, but secured a translation
from Grillparzer. The rights of ‘Francillon’ were
presented to Mrs. Potter by Dumas Fils, through his
appreciation of her, artistry. Much vexed question
that. Her first appearance was in London as Anne
Sylvester in ‘Man and- Wife,’ and jfhere was never
such a commotion since Mrs. Langtry’s time. When
she performed in Melbourne, Neild, the famous
critic, wrote his appreciation in the Australasian ;
but James Smith, in the Argus, dubbed her a poor
actress. Editor-in-chief Haddon decided that Smith
was right, and, therefore, Neild must cool down.
Neild refused to cool down, and withdrew from the
paper, thus ending his career as a critic. He had
begun about 1855, as ‘Christopher Sly’ in the publi-
cation called My Note Book. He used the same
signature in the Examiner,. For the Australasian
he signed ‘Jaques,’ and then ‘Tahite,’ supposed to be
anagrammed from the front name of Hattie Shep-
herde, who was ridiculously described as a daughter
of Redmond Barry; Bellew’s father would have
made a better actor than Kyrle. Rev. J. C. M.
Bellew had a London proprietary fashionable chapel,
under the wing of the Church of England. After-
wards he became a Catholic. His elocution was more
musical than that of any contemporary. Once he
gave a reading of ‘Hamlet’ in London, with all the
parts performed by actors and actresses in dumb
show. Some forerunner that strange talkyphone
with the biograph. I think Kyrle Bellew had a
brother, but he was much annoyed by an impostor,
who claimed to bethat same brother. Also, I have
a dim idea that Kyrle has, or had, a son in Aus-
tralia. What was Kyrle’s age ? It is given as only
56. Surely too low! He must have been 60 at
least. On the. other hand, knowing him well, it
seems to me that the age of 66, which' has been
printed, is altogether over the mark.”
“Stargazer”: Arguing against the Actors’ Union as
a preposterous effort to lower our splendid art stan-
dards, the Argus points out that Australians insist on
having strange faces. This is specious; it seems to
be true, but isn’t. The fact is, Australian actors are
given scarcely any means of winning public respect
and admiration, because they are almost invariably
shoved into undiscoverable parts in good plays, or
conspicuous parts in bad plays. They may figure
prominently in abominable melodrama, but in better-
class stuff they have little opportunity of majjing
themselves highly desirable. The Argus contention
that Australians want strange faces has been dis-
proved so far as comic opera is concerned. In this
department it has been demonstrated that playgoers
here are content to abide by local talent that is
neither new nor strange. I could cite many instances
of Melbourne and Sydney theatregoers awakening to
sudden appreciation of Australian-made players whom
rare and unexpected chance had given an opportunity
of spreading themselves in happy parts. When a
man does a telling thing like that in London, he is
seized on by managers who hope to make much of
him ; here, he is incontinently dropped into the ruck
again.
Miss Nellie Nicholson, of Brisbane, has at last
brought her fine voice and hard work to a good mar-
ket, the J. C. Williamson firm having offered her the
crown of the Fairy Queen in the new panto, “Sinbad
the Sailor.” The lady is now trying it on at Mel-
bourne.
“Haresfoot”: Miss Spong in “Everywoman” is
charming; but why must the stage blacken itself?
Why cry stinking fish ? How few plays like “Masks
and Faces” will show you the good side! The
stage appears to exult in realising ignorant preju-
dice concerning itself. If you want the sink of all
evil, go to the theatre, says “Everywoman.” A
monstrous, grotesque burlesque—never true, and now
less true than ever. What silly, empty oafs are the
two theatrical managers presented in this “modern
morality” ! Are they a morsel like Frohman, Klaw,
Hammerstein, Collins, Edwardes, or Williamson and
Meynell ? No, they are stupid burlesques, as if
imagined by the Rev. Chadband Stiggins. Then that
abominable hussy presented as the successful actress.
Next comes the infernal lie of the wicked millionaire,
with his run of the stage. Positively the poor stage
doesn’t get a glimmer of righteous limelight in this
play. And my esteemed friends Eardley Turner and
Emma Temple have to do the preaching. Oh, let
the conventicle go in its strength to gloat over
“Everywoman” !
“C. Ockney”: Walter Browne, the luckless author
of “Everywoman,” was not, as many people think,
a native of America. He was (and “in spite of all
temptations,” he remained) an Englishman. Origin-
ally a mummer, he played small baritone parts in
Gilbert and Sullivan opera in the D’Oyley Carte Co.,
at the Savoy and on provincial tours/ He tried for
years to score as a dramatic author in London. He
got his foot in with some German Reed operettas and
such-like; also, a few tentative productions of
comedies proved that, with luck, he would “get
there” eventually. But the big success never came.
Then he drifted to America, where also for years he
tried and tried, and his luck was right out. At last
he wrote “Everywoman,” and on the eve of the pro-
duction he died. Fate is a cruel satirist.
In spite of the Petri ana myth and the other per-
juries, Hayati Hassad, the venerable 30in. Turk who
is the Mayor of Beaumont Smith’s quaint Tiny Town
show, thinks that Australia is a gem of a place to get
into. Hassad can’t forget what happened to him in
the United States —him, the owner of a fat bank
balance, 45 suits of clothes, 60 pairs of boots and
a valet. Uncle Sam’s administration simply disre-
garded the splendor of Hassad’s wardrobe, and sent
him to Ellis Island, while it made up its mind
whether he was an undesirable immigrant or not.
But what seems to have hurt the owner of the 45
suits and the 120 boots most of all was that his
valet was told to walk right into the country with-
out knocking.
“Snell”: Never have I witnessed a more complete
collection of moral platitudes than “Everywoman,”
now in progress at Melbourne Royal. The author has
dramatised the copybook, and the general effect, as
with most sermons, is depressing. Parsons are flock-
ing to the Royal. It’s a bad sign. You cannot en-
tertain both the clergy and the laity. The empty
church is proof of this. Aiid there are not clergy-
men enough in Melbourne to minister to the de-
mands of a business-like management in a big
theatre. The whole bunch would not provide two
profitable audiences. The theatre that tries to please
the parsons will end in only pleasing the people the
parsons please, and a round of the churches should
convince J. C. Williamson, Ltd., there’s no money in
that.
Taits’ Follies, at St. Kilda (Melbourne), have been
strengthened by the engagement of Albert Durand,
late of Britain, who is an artist at the banjo, mando-
lin, guitar, and all such music. Durand, who has
appeared with the London Follies, is a young man of
ideas, and is said to be the originator of a musical
ventriloquial turn, in which he plays the accompani-
ment to his puppets’ warble. But his immediate
business in hand is the booming of the balalaika,
Russia’s national three-stringed instrument. He
proposes to teach the use of the weapon, and hopes
to hereafter start a balalaika orchestra.
Sydney had another mild collision at the
Quay on Christmas night, when one of the
ferries, the steering gear of which had be-
come disarranged, butted a sister barge in
an unfriendly way, and smashed about 20ft.
of its bulwarks. One man was bruised a
little, and a lot of people were scared ; but
as no compensation can be paid for yells—
unless they are emitted by a grand opera
artist—'the smash won’t be an expensive
matter for the ferry 00. Still, with the new
Cremorne service in full steam, the salt-
water lancers danced by the boats in and
about the Oove are noticeably growing more
complicated, and the chances of a really
severe bump are greater than they were a
little while back. But the good luck lasts,
and the big accident is still in the future;
so the North Shore bridge remains an airy
dream. “The unbuilt bridge gathers no sea-
weed” appears to be one of Sydney’s
marine mottoes.
BEAUTIFUL AND SWEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Much of the same reasoning applies to the tariff
of 35 and 30 per cent, upon gramophones of the
higher quality.... None of the usual reasons for Cus-
toms duties can be put forward. No anomaly in the
tariff can be proved. Revenue is overflowing. The
reason seems to be an envious desire to put a penalty
on things beautiful and sweet. — Melbourne Argus.
When the scream of “Two-step Sarah” at the mid-
night hour we hear,
In tinny tones upon the out-suburban atmosphere ;
When the roar of “Kiss Me Right'Ncfov, Honey Loo!”
is on the wind,
With “Chick, My Chicken!” chasing it, and “Claribel
Be Kind !”
It’s then our hoards of language fail —
Our neighbors own the street.
BLOW!
There they go !
Oh, curse ’em, and the things they hail as “beauti-
ful” and “sweet” !
When the leafy, gentle-breezy, lazy silence is upset
By a blither-laden ballad with a wheeze you can’t
forget;
When we sit on cool verandahs with our frazzled souls
at rest,
And the screeching phonoblast begins—oh, well, we
give it best,
And Time will now advance upon
Slow, noisy, leaden feet.
Gad!
Hear the dad
Heaping his bitter curses on things “beautiful”
and “sweet” !
Though the sleeper wakes, and curses; though the
shrieks that come to him
Do not sound like seraph-whispers, nor the songs of
cherubim;
Though the clang of metal voices rings inhumanly
across
His beauty-sleep—why, surely, not to like ’em is his
loss!
Hark ! the record-fiend is mewling! Hear
The idiot blighter bleat:
“Oh,
But you know !
Ain’t this latest batch of records clear, apd beauti-
ful and SWEET!”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Men’s “Orient” Lounge Suits
;
A COOL SUIT FOR THE “DOC DAYS
IS
READY TO WEAR
FOR. HOLIDAY WEAR-
27/6
Our “Orient” two garment Suits are constructed to give true
summer comfort. The materials are light in consist-
ing of Tennis Suitings and Summer Flannels. To be had in
Medium Grey Fancy Stripes; Light Grey with Black and
White Stripes; Navy Blue with White Stripes; Grey Mixture
with Fancy Stripes; Plain, Medium and Dark Grey. The
materials are -guaranteed unshrinkable they are soap and
water shrunk, and if washed in hot soapy ' water will not
shrink again. Do not boil them. The suit includes Lounge
Jacket and Trousers (Unlined) with patch pockets, movable
buttons, with or without vent at back. As knock-about suits
for Tennis, for Holiday or Country wear, you cannot surpass
them —and they are finished in every detail with minutest
care. In all sizes . . .. 27/6
Distant Residents pay exactly the price quoted—which is the
city price—there being no need to enclose cost of freight.
DAVID JONES LTD., Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
H
Kug'elmarm’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
‘•Beauty’s Aid."
Free ample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Ivugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
It is only the other day that we were
learning of the new 15,000 tonners that were
being put on the Australian trade, and now
word comes along that the White Star Line
is hurriedly knocking up liners of 18,000
tons register. These are a lump larger than
anything now running or reported as build-
ing; but it is certain that they won’t be
long afloat before we hear of other boats
topping the 20,000-ton mark. The new
White Stars will be of the Runic and Suevic
type, and will, like them, continue the fea-
ture of the one-class passenger. We are still
a long way behind the Olympics and Gigan-
tics of the Western Ocean trade as well as
the ships of other lines, but now that the
economy of the big boat has been clearly
proved, lines running here are not likely to
hesitate to increase tonnage. Meanwhile,
the Australian ports—except, perhaps,
Hobart and Fi'emantle where preparations
are being pushed on—will be waking up
some fine morning to hear a steamer bellow-
ing loudly that she is waiting outside and
can’t crawl in for fear she leaves her cellar-
floor sticking on the rocks of the deepest
channel entrance.
* * * *
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
There was offered for sale by auction, in Mel-
bourne, the other day, what, so far as I know, is the
only original Melbourne half-acre block that hasn’t
been subdivided. Old plans show it as Lot No. 3,
Block 4. It was sold at the first land sale, June 1,
1837 —Robert Hoddle being the auctioneer. The
buyer was John Mills, who gave £35 for the half-
acre. In 1888 it was valued at £lOB,BOO. No. 4
block ran from Flinders-street to Flinders-lane, be-
tween Queen and Elizabeth streets. Near the centre,
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE CASE.
“ Hang it all,” said the fat man who took vp
the space of three , “ a fellow can't get
room to move for thtse blessed hats !”
on the Queen-street side, was Mills’s half-acre. Mills
died in 1841; he was Melbourne’s first brewer, the
brewhouse being on the Lane end of the half-acre.
He left a life interest in the property to his widow,
and after her death it was to revert to his daughter,
and his brothers and sisters as tenants in common.
The widow lived to be 89, outliving the daughter and
aiso the brothers and sisters and the interest in the
estate belongs to their children, the whereabouts of
some of whom have yet to be discovered. Emma,
the daughter, married William Arthur Callander
a’Beckett, Associate to and son of Chief Justice
a’Beckett, and they had two sons and four daughters,
Thus a well-known medico:—
Dear Bulletin —
Annandale, Prospect, S.A.
An unsigned paragraph on page 11 of Thu Bulle-
tin (30/11/’ll) makes some remarks about medical
etiquette and the duties of doctors. Let me try and
make the case a little clearer. A doctor is a person
who has paid a lot of money and spent a lot of time
in acquiring certain knowledge and skill which have
a very uncertain market value. You may say thac a
baker is on much the same footing, in fact, the
latter is the more absolutely necessary to the general
public. But you say a doctor should be compelled
by law to pay a penalty for his industry and expen-
diture. He should be obliged to work for all and
sundry at any time, and regardless of the chance of
getting no pay for his work. He has rendered him-
self so absolutely necessary to the public (entirely
by his own hard work) that the public have a right
t° make him work at any time, pay or no pay?
This is one of the logical conclusions of vour argu-
ment. Now, no one says this of the baker. And
yet his wages have been raised from one to three
pounds a week within the writer’s recollection.
During the same time Australian doctors’ fees have
gone down 50 per cent. You say a doctor should be lic-
ensed. He is. You say “If he wilfully do anything to
jeopardise human life, or fail to do anything that
might save it,” the license should be cancelled. It
is so now. But that depends on his having under-
taken to do, or not to do, certain things. Of course
if you mean that the so-called science of medicine
and surgery should be a State monopoly, and doc-
tors should be in the same position as policemen,
and paid as highly (for very often the policeman is
more necessary than the doctor), then say so. But
as long as “doctoring” belongs to the same category
as bricklaying—that is so long as a man who prac-
tises either art has any freedom at all —let them be
equal in one respect, viz., in the possession of the
right to work or not as they choose. And, lastly,
the State supplies public hospitals for all and sundry
who are in imminent danger. The Premier of S.A.
sent his daughter into the Adelaide public hospital.
He did not grumble because “the doctor” wouldn’t
come on a Saturday afternoon, lie (with hundreds
of other people in high positions) never gave them a
chance. As to the etiquette part of it, that is not
t “ e , T lestlon - The question is: “Has a man any
right to refuse to work all day and all night for all
and sundry, and without any notice, and with no
assurance of being paid, and even, perhaps, for a
person who has robbed and slandered and abused
him? If you say “yes” to that I have done.
C. 11. SOUTER.
* * * *
The departing Powerful gave Sydney
Harbor a poor advertisement as a naval
port, just after it had unshackled from the
f ar ™ Cove buoy, and started on its voyage
to the marine store. A fierce westerly wind
was blowing, and the long iron relic became
tor a time unmanageable in the narrow
waters. Two big steamers inward bound
were coming up on the north side of Pinch-
gut; but they were forced to alter their
course, and go round the obstruction on the
south side, while the wavering Powerful
made up its mind whether it would sit down
on the heap of stones or go on. At last,
having dangerously disarranged the mercan-
tile marine, and maddened a lot of respon-
sible people, it straightened up and ambled
°t> the tangle with the band playing,
The Bones I Nearly Left Behind Me.” If
one big warship can’t get out in time of
peace without risking a series of smashes,
what will happen when shells are plunging
from the sky and raising large, foamy tomb-
stones on the long, thin face of the waters?
“Vag.” : In these days, when a champion
pug. can’t even become a Freemason without
the humorless mummers who comprise “the
Craft” agitating
to have him dis-
qualified and
wiped off the rolls,
etc., it is sooth-
ing to reflect that
at least one front-
rank bruiser sleeps
in a place of honor
in West minster
Abbey. John
Brough ton, his
name was, and he
was champion of
England in the
’7o’s. He now
moulders cheek-
by-jowl with all
the kings and
queens, soldiers
and sailors and
bishops and big-
pots of the king-
dom. True, he
turned verger
after he lost his
punch, but even
that would avail
him little in this
Wowser-cursed age. Picture Jack Johnson’s
widow applying for an Abbey allotment, on
the grounds that deceased has spent the clos-
ing years of his life in the odor of sanctity as
a lay preacher. Her application would be
turned down with something approaching
scorn.
* * * «
A fragment of Australia, at the corner of
Little Collins and Elizabeth Streets in Mel-
bourne, was put up at auction the other
day and sold for £51,150, which works out
at £6OO a foot frontage. The buildings on
the block are very ancient; and one of the
little shops has some historical interest, in-
asmuch as it used to be the business place
of John O’Shanassy, draper, etc. —the same
big John "who afterwards got a mishandle to
his name and led three Victorian Ministries.
THE LIMIT.
ST. PETER : “But, my good fellow , you can't come in here!”
AUTOGRAPH PIENI: “O, I don't want to come in; but would yer mind gettin' the boss
and a few of his friends to -but their names in me book? ”
A Few Words from Pastor Chad. B.
Stiggins of the U.S. :
„„„„ . . ~ c j. j
Sitting at your Test cricket match, the Saturday
before last, it was borne in on me that if the
cause of godliness is to be served, hot only
Pugilism and Beer, but that other great
British institution, Crick,., must I iouuß
myself at the ring-side—within a few brief hours
of the Day of Rest—one of a crowd of well nigh
40,000 people, representing in admission fees alone
a sum that would keep the most exigent of American
, r ..T , u , ,
h.vangousts in luxury lor lue. And what had that
vast concourse come out to see? A trial of strength,
skill and cunning between bands of trained and paid
4.“, thep ,“rvk‘ he ,“ ,port h
sufficed to indicate the nature of it. Gathered around
the ring were some of the very scum of Sydney,
Spielers, “guns,” drunkards, chaffers of barmaids,
gamblers, racing-men, frequenters of two-up schools
wife-beaters, perjurers, thieves, politicians, were all
to be observed. Mingling freely with them, I grieve
to say, were boys, and young and seemingly innocent
• i ”
“ ‘ ,
The spectators evinced a disgusting familiarity
with the flannelled hirelings, who were striving for
their amusement. “Tibby,” “Vic,” and such-like
grotesque names were to be heard on every side, re-
calling one of the many debasing features of the
prize-ring. Betting, though nominally forbidden, was
indulged in freely. A total stranger offered to lay
me six to four on the Australians, to any sum I liked,
As Trumper had by this time completed his century,
and looked like staying where he was for days, I
declined.
Meanwhile, out there in the pitiless sun, these
young men—mere boys some of them—risked their
lives for our delectation. I use the words advisedly.
Apart, altogether, from the risk of heat apoplexy,
sunstroke, and so forth, one blow, in a vital spot,
from a cricket ball as flung by (say) Cotter, would
mean certain death. Rightly do such men as he earn
the sobriquet “demon bowlers.” The Sydney Tele-
graph, which, 1 understand, is conducted by one of
the Cloth, printed the following next day: “Trumper
was just off the end of Kinneir’s bat on the on side.
A powerful pull might have sent Trumper to
the morgue.” To the majority of the crowd
(as at a prize fight) the possibility of death
or disaster is, of course, part of the amuse-
ment. A hum of joy, revoltingly suggestive of the
blood-lustful sounds of the Spanish bull-ring, went
up as the fateful hand on the seqring-board pointed
to the name “Barnes”—another of the players who
are entitled by law to endanger their opponents’
liveSp 1 f urned away sickened.
The arrival of the Australians in the field, and the
handing of the ball to Cotter, produced a tempest of
applause. That mighty crowd (which at thrippence
jr even Id. per head, would make many an indigent
P ast&r > comfortable for years) was about to get its
{SB* fSgf "*
player has been hit. Not fatally, however, and the
business of the day goes remorselessly on. Gunn,
P oor fellow, plays with a broken hand, received in a
,)avn < jon m ns C n’ J'7 ithe f s in au f? u Lh >n tl ) e
pavilion, as a result of a blow from one of Barnes s
deliveries. Such episodes do not revolt the crowd,
They are to cricket what the knock-out is to boxing,
, The promoters of this debasing orgy were indicated
s-wSK
vast edifice, with its luxurious bars, retiring-rooms,
tea-rooms, etc., and its thousands of pounds’ worth
°ji asphalt, etc., had been paid for by them out
f o nn,u lt f‘‘there is* more'cX in every "ye^r.” 7 One
feature, and one o-nly, of the sordid business pleased
me. Hanging over the pavilion I identified the
Union Jack, the French tri-color, the American flag,
ant > many others ; but one emblem, from my seat in
the half-crown stand, I could not see, namely, the
Commonwealth ensign. Plainly the promoters, care-
less of decency though they be, are unwilling
tr a fjje S ° C * ate t^le * r na U° na l with so degraded a
vr, 0 ' .v «
f°r t: attracts to its arena some of
/..f, J u criminal characters m the community ; be-
■ n engine for betting ; because the unde-
fii u n ., 0 y # element enters into it, and if certain
en * er , ir l & de-
f i f rnr vk M ’. Her -° f * aS i* Monday, for ex-
gmple, frankly clamored in a leading article for
cr * ck ? ters ).; because the par-
„ hideous risks, in order that a de-
l hr !i! s r
1L 3 m °^ CnCk ® t 18
■ ;£jif Pr T n i5 d ? de °? man ? na * u C e as that
f . an f and ,? all ln clarlon
x 0 68 fn P 'VaI* 0 ’ n'-r K ILL - H A VE
0 ,' h ' Ari< it would be well if the righte-
the notching it were begun at
?® Hn s ® ason of Peace and Goodwill and wide
s e ° s ‘
* * * *
From the WEST AUSTRALIAN (8/12/’ll) :
T avt np ' ,/
, *’ fj Forest-street, Cottes-
’ , nD i l l d Mrs ’ TTdbert H. laylor as
v a ’ a <la "Shur.
Yet another instance, doubtless, of iteration
becoming damnable.
A NEW YEAR GREETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old year sags its lower lip,
And limps the last lap of its way ;
And some have gone a week-end trip,
And some at watch-night service pray.
But I pore over bills unpaid,
And count the grim cost of the year:
The tailor. Lord! what suits he made!
What O ! what frocks are mentioned here !
.But now the joy bells start, and I,
Impelled by my necessitude,
The midnight’s mantle seek, and sigh:
“Ring out the old ; ring in the nude.”
QUEENSLAND.
MILKY WHITE.


i
(2
Q
X
domestic uses.
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters
home.
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,*’
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 67.
After a heavy dinner alwavs take Chamberlain’s
Tablets.*
Coalfields § Collieries of
Australasia.
By F. Danvers Power.
25|-
net
Published by Mining Standard.
Crltchley Parker. All Booksellers.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
die proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
ƒĥ
For the Hot Months
of the New Year!
Rational cool dressing is rapidly becoming general in Aus-
tralia, just as it already is the custom in India. We make
two suggestions:—
This “AERO” CRASH SUIT
This is a more porous material than Khaki, and conse-
quently cooler! It’s a neat Drab shade that won’t soil easily
ana is not so glaring as Khaki. Two garments—the Coat
and Trousers—splendidly cut and nice size to exactly fit you
In ordering by post tell us your waist,
chest and inside leg measurement.
211-
Posted
1/3 extra.
STYLISH
One of nnr
and guaranteed
PANAMAS.
nicked models, plaited by hand under water
by U 3 free from flaw's. A nice curl to the
ana ovailed crown—of course
genuine South American.
15 6
Post
Free.
PEAPES (Si CO. LTD
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
“Men's
•* Outfitters,"
SYDNEY.
“Brass Button” : There is something to be
said for the shipmaster who did not stop on
seeing a number of cases floating, appar-
ently containing drapery, and with the ap-
pearance of having been in the water only an
hour or two. To investigate he might have
lost half an hour, and, by a few hours’ exam-
ination, he might have found someone cling-
ing to the wreckage. But that shipmaster
knew his business —and his owners. Owners
object to delay, for delay means the loss of
a few odd half-pence. Compel owners to
give orders that their shipmasters must stop
and examine any wreckage they come across
—till then blame the owners, not their ser-
vant. And after these orders are given—
well, perhaps things will be much the same.
If a skipper has to inspect all wreckage he
comes across, then the best skipper will be
the one who comes across least wreckage.
I WONDER WHO HE'S KISSING NOW?
“My dear child, he is no gentleman! Do you
know what he did? He kissed me when
I wasn’t looking.”
“ The beast! And what did you do?”
“I never looked at him again.”
Superb slab of guff, contributed to the Syd-
ney press, last Saturday, by Laura Bcgue
Luffman, N.S.W. “Liberalism’s” leading
“At Home”, organiser :
Can men afcnd women who realise that the British
Empire is built on the foundations of law and order
submit to the curtailment ot those liberties for
which their forefathers shed their blood V Can they
a (lord to sit down tamely while freedom of speech
is abolished,. while indignities are daily heaped on
the leader of the Opposition and his colleagues, and
the majesty of Parliament is outraged by applause
which brings the House down to the level oi a
circus? This is a national question, and although
the great Liberal party is the true national party,
standing for the good of the whole community, we
gladly leave aside all party labels and urge all men
and women who love justice and fair play, who
shrink from seeing their Parliament the laughing-
stock of the world, who believe that Australia will
have a great future if it upholds the ideals that have
made England great, to arise in their might and de-
clare that this tyranny shall cease.
The late W. B. Dailey once got something
resembling the above off his chest. He was
defending, not a gang of “Liberal” roughs,
but a murderer. The ease was pretty well
hopeless, the accused having butchered his
victim in full view of about 14 reputable
burghers. ■ Dailey argued that he was in-
sane. . “Hang this unhappy youth,” he peror-
ated, his face distorted with well-simulated
emotion, “and all Europe will arise, as one
man, and cry: ‘My God! In New South
Wales they have executed a madman.’ ”
And sitting down, amidst an impressive hush,
lie murmured to w ant, his junior: “A nice
d—d villain, Jack, for all Europe to arise
as one man about!” One of the differences
between the late Dailey and the existing
Luffman is to be found in the matter of
humor and a sense of proportion.
* * * *
“Hullo”: Sydney Telegraph’s cricket ex-
pert remarked last Friday : “After an Eng-
lishman is born, three great wishes grow up
with him. They are that he may become a
great soldier, a great sailor, or a great
cricketer.” Yes, and he refuses to join the
Territorialsthe crews of his ships are in-
creasingly Larsen or Pietro, or Ah Fong, and
even in cricket he can’t play googlies.
“Briner” writes: —
One Hunt, an officer of the Shenandoah, has just
published in America a book about her cruises. She
was a fine new steamer, called the Sea King, and did
a voyage from London to Maoriland and back. Then
she cleared out from London for Bombay, ostensibly,
but she had been bought by Confederate agents, and
went forth on her piratical
cruise. The fighting- crew
of the vessel was planted
in various parts of Liver-
pool. They were taken
aboard somehow. The
Sea King went to Fun-
chal, in Madeira. There
her guns and warlike
stores were ready. All
being put aboard, the
name was changed to the
Shenandoah, and off she
went on her nefarious
work, rivalling the Ala-
bama, Sumter and Georgia.
The Alabama, built by
Laird, of Liverpool, was
sister vessel to Brassey’s
Sunbeam. The Shenan-
doah put into Melbourne,
for coal and re-fitting. The
first McCulloch Govern-
ment was in power, with
Higinbotham as Attorney-
General. This demo-
cratic Mini s t ry was
against the Confederates
in sympathy. However, it
decided that the Shenan-
doah must be allowed to
take in coal, and stores
other than warlike. There
was a strict embargo
against shipping men,
and the captain said he
didn’t want any. The
officers were feted by Con-
federate sympathisers. The
Melbourne Club gave them
a banquet, and Ballarat
gave them another. Hunt
says there was one -at
Scott’s Hotel, Mellbourne,
where Northern sympa-
thisers rushed in, and
there was a fight. The
officers lodged at Clee-
land’s Albion Hotel,
Bourke - street. Cleeland
named his grey racing
filly Shenandoah. When
the vessel got outside the
Heads, 45 stowaways
turned up, and were in-
corporated with the crew.
Doubtless they got on by
connivance. The ship really needed them,' and Hunt
says they were among the most valuable men. The
Shenandoah went on destroying United States ships
for eight months after the war was over. As part of
the Alabama award, the British Government paid
£750,000 on account of the Shenandoah’s visit to
Melbourne, and the help it received there. The Shen-
andoah was sold to the Sultan of Zanzibar, and foun-
dered with all hands off the East African coast, as
the Waratah is supposed to have done. There is some
warning yet for Australia and England in the doings
of the Alabama and Shenandoah. Remember how the
Russian Admiral Aslanbegoff visited Australia with
the sharkish cruisers Vestnik, Afrika and Plastoun,
just after a tension between Britain and Russia.
“L’Fou”> The National Council of
Women is. trying to improve Melbourne’s
milk supply system. And the time isn’t a
second too, ripe. How absurd it is to see
about 43 morning milk-carts (more or less)
with 43 drivers and as many horses tearing
about some mean; street in the grey dawn,
each one dropping a half-pint or so of in-
fant’s nourishment at a house (or if the
firm has an extraordinarily good connection
at two houses), and then Hying on to serve
a customer two'streets away with most of
the other 42 rival carts in his wake. Pic-
ture Private Enterprise supplying (say) our
letters on this insane Dlan. In that case
there would probably be about 20 postmen
delivering letters in one street with adver-
tising shrieks like this: “The Jones carry-
ing system is the best. See your mail comes
and goes through them.” “Our postman is
the fastest in the State. Mark his action.”
“Your mail is safe with us. We employ
none but Rechabites.” And so on. Social-
istic milk would mean economical distribu-
tion, and, above all, it would mean a reli-
able article.
THE SCHOOL OF EXPERIENCE.
INTENSE MALE : “ Ah! but to write life you must live life. I have been down into the
aepths. I have been through the fires”
BORED FEMALE: “I thought there was a smetl of something burning.”.
Water famine struck Sydney last week
in an aggravated form, especially those
parts which depend on the pumping appara-
tus at Crown-street for their supply. About
the inefficiency of that pumping apparatus
many unpleasant things are being said, and
an inquiry would not be out of place. But, in ad-
dition, some of the mains that bring water into
the city are ancient history, and duplica-
tion is badly required. In short, popula-
tion has been crowded into the big city at
such a sudden rate that it has outgrown
almost everything—its tramway system, its
streets, its house accommodation, its rents,
its railway station, its bottle-neck railway,
its goods sheds at Darling Harbor, its pas-
senger wharfage, and its water supply. It
is said in some quarters that there may be
two or three years of intermittent water
shortage before things are sufficiently re-
paired. It wasn’t especially hot or dusty
when the trouble happened, nor was there
any great extra demand. It was simply
that the inevitable happened by effluxion of
time. And it was a horrible happening.
Large areas were left without the where-
withal to wash or cook or clean. Orders
were issued that lawns and gardens must
be allowed to wilt. Worst of all, several big
hospitals found themselves in the blighted
land. Operations had to be postponed wher-
ever possible, even at great risk. Those that
couldn’t be postponed were done at extra
risk. Births took place amid misery and
discomfort. When the Yassberra Federal
capital was under consideration, its advo-
cates professed a dreary conviction that al-
most any old bind of a creek or pint of water
would serve to supply almost any size of a
city. But big cities drink a lot if the cli-
mate is warm, and people have the washing
habit badly, and they want to have bright
green parks and gardens. In a few years
more Sydney may be reaching almost as far
as Canberra for its drinkables, and fighting
the Federal capital for the Cotter.
* * * *
Maoriland has’been counting up its sec-
tarians, and finds that those suffering from
the Church of England and other forms of
Episcopalianism total 411,671; Scotchby-
terians, 234,662; Romans, 139,191;, Metho-
dies, 94,827; Believers in Christ, 37; Bap-
tists, 20,042; Salv’army, 9707 ; Students of
the Truth, 6; no religion, 5414; object to
state, 35,905; Seventh Day Adventurers,
1113; Hebrews, 2128; Mormons and Latter
Day Saints, 365; mixed Disciples, 9187;
conglomerated Brethren, 7865; Spiritual-
ists, 1197; Buddhists, Confucians, etc.,
1501. Since the last census was taken, the
Church of England, with 44,843, has the
largest increase of membership; the Por-
ridgebyterians, with 31,065, are second;
and the Roman Catholics, with 13,082, are
third. Christians are as scarce as ever.
THE WORM TURNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two men were fined for praying aloud at night,
on the ground that they constituted a public nuis-
ance.—Recent American cablegram.
At last!
Suite of his tyranny for ages past,
'J lie whiskered beast that prowled our cities through
With coat of black and glassy eyes of blue,
'ihe Wowser. . .at his sway the dart is cast
At last!
Three cheers!
Let the astonished States set up free beers!
Let the suburbanites join hands and shout
And trot to bed filled full of bottled stout!
The sun can shine once more! The dull fog clears! !
Thirtyithree cheers! !
Vae Victis!
Wowser, beware! or learn what to be kicked is:
Bewar-e the fine, the gaol, the loss of standing,
And the grave-whiskered Judge’s reprimanding!
Weep ! for your bubble reputation pricked is !
Vae Victis !
WOWSERS !
Where is your meek and pray’rful triumph now, sirs?
Down, down on your unmentionables bended,
And.thank the Lord (for us) your sway is ended!
(But do’t in whispers) —Down upon your trousers,
1 Vou Sirs!
VICTCIfIA.
HENRY VIII. (and proud of it).
THE TEMPTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The other day, in a Melbourne Children’s Court, a
case was heard against a little girl of eight, who had
stolen pennies from a confectioner’s till to put in
the plate at church.
Oh, brethren, here’s a shocking case
Of innocence gone all astray,
Which proves our young Australian race
Is rushing at a headlong pace
To moral ruin and decay—
Misled by heathen discontent
To premature embezzlement.
When, in the past, the little ones
Spent pennies that were meant to fall
In mission plates, on currant buns,
And rattles and small wooden guns,
We saw the Devil in it all,
And then we preached a fierce crusade
Against all forms of Sunday trade.
Now babies rob the till to feed
The distant heathen in his sin,
To give him pants he doesn’t need,
A Bible that he cannot read,
A hat to mix his victuals in.
Let’s hasten, ere it be too late,
To wipe away the tempting plate!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


HAIRDRESSERS’ CHARGES.
SUBSTANTIAL INCREASES. j
The price for shaving is to remain at I
3d., but that for hair-cutting is to be
advanced 100 per cent., and other in-
creases show that, on the whole, the
public will have In the future to pay
from 30 per cent, to 40 per cent. more
than formerly
Mr. Murray Is determined to make •
stand against the Commonwealth’s In-
vasion ol State rights. As he expressed
it at Creswick on Saturday, “We are
not going to take it lying down." He
was speaking particularly ot the Com-
monwealth’s savings bank proposals.
“itfe Or\\y
/{"or -VWe Minded
fied : " “'Elio , Bill©, f>mcWed t
a^cn 1 .
sillo : " liS all Med, I'm
£&'\n' \jp |er" a ■'aircvTT - ’ ’
A iSrible
JoWrt \ : LooK Here
f-isHer, yoore rv '®
<if you o*7
by '
Wea>N)erts., I'll u|? |
Ajartci^-ol
I idea qj. fWe
Amiable
dou>*7 Hl?e
W»«» "food-Vi
beer? acceded d'o.
i it
Y e y
4s e wa?th 8 :' eV< T °' Beame " "ow..
—-
"famen r<! . Wer . e ° n,y 800 0r 9 °° Chinese
seamen employed at such ports « c
London, Liverpool and Cardiff, hut now
3oys ojf
-¥tie Bull-
dog
Breed.
# Yc N\arirters
Enclave*."
- rcvnseek v«raior .
AN ASS AND OTHER MATTERS.


NABOB BOOT PASTE.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS A WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Diamonds Reduced
—Enormously.
Selected Diamonds
and 1 Sapphire,
Blue White
Diamonds, £2O.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings, Pendants, and Jewellery generally, at prices never
before attempted in Australia. ' 1
WHY ? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have to
live up to it, and so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the increase of customers.
plain Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Andan” from south-west Queensland: —
The Queensland stockowner and dairy-farmer—the
Downs part of him at least—-is a drifting, floating
cuss. For eight seasons he has had feed in such
plenty that, at the beginning of each year, tons,
fields of it, have been allowed to go to waste, because
there were no buyers at cocky’s price. For three
years before this marvellous run of luck, the heated
snort of the drought fiend was upon the land, and the
cocky badly wanted that superfluous feed. Yet, to-day,
there are less than 50 silos on the Downs, leaving
out a few Government institutions. In addition, the
man on the land has stocked up to good season’s
capacities. He got a recent warning that his old
enemy was only lying low, and might return any
day, but he shows no sign of taking heed. The
cocky is not the only man to blame. Storekeepers
that give a year’s “tick,” bank managers and other
financiers, have all helped this folly by not sitting
on their debtor’s head until he did make some pro-
vision for a probable bad season, so that, by pro-
tecting himself, he would protect them, and, inci-
dentally, the State’s credit. Though nobody seems
to worry very much about the State’s credit in this
tear of Denham, debt and dash-the-consequences.
COMPROMISE.
HIS REVERENCE:
“Sure, ’tis you that
are looking well since
you first came here, Mr.
Daley."
DALEY: "Sunburn, Father,
and a hectic flush”
HIS REVERENCE : Well, an fine, Mr. Daley! The Church will not be hard upon ye about
attending to your duties. But you are looking well enough to buy two bazaar tickets
: He was an Englishman, fresh
from a London flat, and he had come to Australia
determined to breed sheep, make a fortune in three
years, and send for the girl. Said he: “It is simple
enough. You buy 100 wethers, don’t you know. In
a twelvemonths they will each have had two lambs.
'Then you sell the old sheep and have the lambs to
tiie good : —to say nothing of the fur.”
“Maliarapoonie,” from Cape Leeuwin:
Greeting from Cape Leeuwin.
This is a day of blue and gold ; of reef and cav
and long sweeping shores hemmed with snowy lace.
Not a cloud, not a sail, not a blur of steamer smoke
on all the vast expanse that stretches towards Amea
and the South Pole. From where I sit and write, on
the great bald headland of Australia’s best-known
1 may even say best-loved —cape, the Leeuwin light-
house is only a mile or so away on my right front.
The great white pillar, standing like a giant, Heaven-
pointing finger on the huge boss of granite—a very
foundation of the continent, that is at once the bul-
wark and the terminus of our land, looks clean and
clear-cut against the blue of ocean. Two hundred
feet it is reared above the long, low swells that
break in foam around its base; and steadfastly it
keeps guard where two oceans meet.
Though the lightest of winds is from the sou’-west,
heavy ground swells are breaking on the ragged,
storm-torn coast that stretches northward from the
Leeuwin. Behind the headland the forest rises, tier
on tier.
Eastward sweeps the long, long arc of Flinders
Bay. It is a scheme in white and blue; white
beach, blue laving sea; and in the distance, bald
snowy hummocks, almost swallowed up in azure in-
definiteness. Low on the south-east ocean’s rim, and
so remote that one must look twice before it can be
discerned amid the haze, lies Cape D’Entrecasteaux.
Quite near at hand Millar’s timber jetty is nestling-
in a fold of the coast.
Due south, right before me, some three miles
away, lies Alouran Island —a grim granite boss, that
methodically withstands the ceaseless battering of
the Leeuwin seas. Flinders Island, just such am
other, is behind it. Between these and the mainland
lie all the wondrous maze of foam-fringed reefs that
shelter Flinders Bay.
On just such an afternoon as this, with the sea as
calm and its color the same as Mrs. “Mallara-
poonie’s” linen tubs on washing day, the Pericles
tore her bottom out on S.W. Breakers Reef. The
wreck lies just out there, a mile or so from the
shore, on a rough bottom, and in 16 fathoms of
water. This summer another attempt is to be made
to salvage its bones, but the terrible undertow and
the mad currents that sweep around the Leeuwin will
make it fearsome work.
The Pericles ship’s company can thank its collec-
tive lucky star it was wrecked in time for afternoon
tea at the lighthouse. For, east of Leeuwin for
many miles, the coast is one of the most inhospitable
in Australia, being all scrub and sand and entirely
uninhabited. Only lately a daring person endeavored
to penetrate on foot from Flinders Bay to Warren
River, and for miles he had to crawl on all fours
through the terrible thickets. When he reached civili-
sation again, after many days and great tribulations,
it was found he had developed callosities on his
knees like a bull camel.
I have a eopy of the Old Publication by me. The
date is November 9 (our latest) ; and on the opening
page McGowen is harassing the Public Debt with
his six-and-eightpenny sooler. I have tom the red
cover off and impaled it on the bayonet-like stem of
a grass-tree, where it is fluttering merrily—flaunt-
ing like the Flag of Democracy over two oceans.
Again greeting.
“Red Hanky” : After reading “Mr. Oekyfs”
complaint (B. 30/11/’ll), concerning the things he
saw creeping and crawling on the You Yang hills
(Vie.), I made investigation, for a particular reason,
and I am satisfied that his is a very sad case. Self!
and a mate explored every slope one recent afternoon
and saw only one small lizard. Came to the decision,
too, that if we were trapping scorpions for a crust
we have had to go without the crust. What we
did discover was that inmates of the Inebriates’
Institute, at Lara (a few miles distant), use these
hills for afternoon promenades.
G.L.P. : My specialty is the fastest burn-
ing tree. I am really a hog for fast-burning trees.
I tip the blackboy, which abounds in the Westralia
and Queensland scrubs. It is a very dry wood, and
by the way it consumes itself, in about five seconds,
more or less, I reckon that its favorite food is
whales, and that the blubber has got into its
system.
“Billy B.”: After considerable experience,
I have come to the conclusion that Australia con-
tains more tobacco cadgers to the square plug than
any other portion of the hospitable earth. It was
of Australia that it was written: “A friend in weed
is a friend indeed.”
THE RETORT
COURTEOUS.
SLAP-UP SAL: “Me bloke bort me a bob box er
chocks las’ night. Don't yer bloke ever
buy yer nuffin'? ”
GINGER GERTY: “ Naw . My blokes poor—
but honest."
“Snell’’: This is a true bill from the life-
history of Tom Thornton. Tom Thornton was a slim
young' enginedriver on a mine at Pinhead, handsome
and something of a dandy in ids class. Wherever
Thomas put up, the daughters of the people went
out of their way to betray great appreciation. At
Pinhead Thornton was much drawn to Annie, eldest
daughter of John Hine, who was at that toilsome
stage where the settler ends and the farmer begins
to bud out. Annie was about 17 ; her hair was still
in suspension, and her skirts had not yet overtaken
her boots. She was sweet, red-lipped, blue-eyed,
simple and merry. line resented Tom’s appreciation
of Annie, and resorted to rough and ready expedients
to keep the lovers asunder. But when Anne broke
away, she always made a dash for Thornton, and wept
on his arm over her unhappy lot. The girl’s inno-
cence was flower-like, but paternal interference
with the course of true love worked upon her
in an extraordinary way. One afternoon she
rushed to Thornton, panting, her hands dusty and
bleeding, her clothing- marked with rust. She had
been separated from Tom for three days. She
caught him by the arm. “Come on,” she whispered.
“Quick, quick! Dad’s asleep by the spring under
Kgg Hill. If we roll a big rock it will kill him.”
For half an hour sweet Annie had been struggling
with the big rock on her own. Thornton promptly
decided on a change of air and scenery.
“Boswell”: A phase of the close-fisted-
ness of Oow-eoekydom is exemplified on a trip down
the Richmond River (N.S.W.). About every eighth
of a mile the steamer laboriously brings up against
a so-called wharf, erected by the farmer for despatch
of cow-juice to the factories. The deck-hand whirls
his lassoo, the captain grows sulphurous, the engineer
backs and fills, and eventual 1 v a project’on from
the rickety heap of doglegs and deal boards catches
the noose, and we berth alongside. The deck-hand,
plunging recklessly for the cream cans, treads on
the tail of an unnailed plank, which rears up on
end and biffs him. The skipper, breathing brimstone
against cockies in general, descends to the assistance
of his struggling crew, and, while the ruin is swaying
about under the added avoirdupois, plunges his foot
through the perished decking. No wonder he reckons
it is up to the shire councils to erect the wharves
and deduct cost from the juice of the cow. And if
the shires haven’t the power at present to do this, it
should be given them without delay. Unless prodded
from behind by the Law. the cow cocky is a slipshod
cuss and a chronic cheapjack.
Dear Bulletin, — By entering a mere Aus-
tralian farmyard for the Boss Uproar Competition, it
may be readily concluded that “Mallaeoota” (B.
19/10/’ll) has never participated in a Papuan pig-
hunt. For grotesque hide-
ousness a Papuan hog
stands alone in the scheme
of Nature. A cattle buy-
er would describe him as
being “a bit wasty in the
rump,” As a matter of
fact, only one-third of a
Papuan pig is just plain
pig; the other two-thirds
is snout. On account of
carrying his ballast so far
forward, it is nothing un-
usual to see the creature’s
stern tip up when, in
rooting, his bowsprit hap-
pens to get under some
obstruction. When a Pa-
puan village feels like
having pork, for supper,
the entire male population
turns out like one hunk of
copper - colored humanity,
and, with its accumulated
uog and much dunnage in
the way of eocoanut fibre
rope and nets, sets out for
the jungle. The intention
is to secure the animal
unharmed, for more than
half the joy is in roasting
li i m alive. Yelps o f
hounds and much indig-
nant snorting soon indi-
cate that supper is crash-
ing through the under-
growth. When the soolers
have succeeded in bring-
ing pig to bay in a thick-
et, Papua forms a coffee-
colored cordon round the
centre of disturbance, and,
advancing on the spot
where the violent agita-
tion of the jungle is, and
where the yowling of
tykes is blended with the
shocking objurgations of
the hog, all hands shriek
and yell at the top of
their collective larynx.
The game is to so bam-
boozle pig by uproar that
he doesn’t know whether
he is in Sheol or the
N.S.W. Assembly. The
jungle is usually 'so dense
that Papua can t see two ,
feet before its brown nose,
and the whole operation
has to be conducted by
sound. It is. What with
bowlings and hissings and
the sooling-on of dogs;
with the vociferousness of
the brutes and the terrible
language of the pig, and
with thrashing of vine
scrub and pandemonium
generally, the excitement is tremendous. No one
knows what is going to happen next, or who
to.,i or where. If pig has spirit he usually
succeeds in chopping up a few dogs, capsizing a lot
of brown human ty, and otherwise disarranging much
scenery before being captured with difficulty, and
borne off in triumph amid terrific din anil loud
protests from the hog. On the other hand, weak-
hearted members of the porcine family have been
known to drop dead of horror when the uproar blew
in. In such cases they are usually captured with
ease—in fact, I may say they are secured with
amazing facility.—Yours, Mallarapoonie.
“Cellu Loid”: Lot me pass the word on to
Arcarlo ’ that the South Sea nigger is scared of
sharks. Scores of times I have been with South
Sea natives and sharks in the same water after
dynamited fish, but these were only mud sharks. The
worst that could happen to you would be the loss of
a finger or two. The muddy gent, snatches at the
fish as you are coming up with it in yoirr hand, and
he may get a scrap of you by accident. At Savo,
Solomon Group, the natives look on the shark with
such respect that they engage him to act as under-
taker for their deceased relatives. And if you want
to see a nigger turn white, watch a Savo'boy fall
ovei boa id into the wet cemetery. Once, between
Treasury and Shortland Islands, two of the native
crew jumped overboard to retrieve the mate’s hat.
Five yards from the ship’s side the boys sighted a
shark with a sort of quick-lunch look in his eye, and
fled. Only one boy got back, and the shark lost
some of his quick-lunch expression.
THE WRECKED CONSERVATIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the Duke of Fife was wearing was his night-
s.irt ami a pair of trousers borrowed from the light-
liouse-keeper.•—Report of the Delhi wreck.
\\ e know very little of how dukes live,
Or the ways of the real Conservative;
The fashions may vary—pyjamas take
lhe place of the nightshirt of antique make;
The world whizzes round in its frenzied way,
Oblivious of whether his Grace of A.
lletires in a species of well-starehed shroud
Denouncing the ways of the trousered crowd,
Or whether he slumbers in pants and coat,
In the modern way, o’er the castle moat.
The weary old world on its axis twists,
When it thinks of the way a duke exists;
Houses and acres and houses again
AVith rents that fatten, reign after reign ;
A belltoppered man in a well-cut coat
As the one descendant of dukes remote,
To squander the thousands or dole them out,
And keep all the tenants from getting stout
On the brick-piled acres his people bought
By shaking a leg at some dead king’s court.
’Tis only when something has come to wreck
And his Grace in his shroud comes up on deck,
That the old world sees that his Grace of A.
Belongs in his soul to a long-past day;
That, sleeping and waking, each hour he lives
As one of the staunchest Conservatives.
Then the old pants begged for the homeward tramp
From the lonely man of the coastal lamp
Will stand very well for the rent-roll fat
That has kept the wolf from the ducal mat.
N.S.W.
A DECAYED BARON.
THE MAILMAN’S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The mailman said: “Me brother Tom
Was once at MungintK, ..
And woke up early, suff’rin’ from
A spree, and feelin’ dry;
He jumped out pretty quick, and tcs;cd
His trousers on, and felt
A little narked to find he’d lost
The buckle off his belt.
He guested he must ’a’ ’ad a row,
But ’adn’t time to think ;
So tied it round his waist somehow,
And went and ’ad a drink.
But, spare me days, that belt about
Untied itself in there,
An’ crawlin’ down ’is leg went hunt
To get a breath o’ hair.
Tom didn’t trouble much because
He’d seen the like before,
An' only thought the ’orrors wos '
A cornin’ on once more;
But some time after it was gone
He found out his mistake—
Ilis belt still ’ad the buckle on—
So it must a’ bin—a snake!
N.S.W.
H. E. HORNE.


REXONA. THE RAPID HEALER.
Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions and
irritations of the skin, Eczema, Pimples, Sores, Chil-
blains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Itching or Bleeding
Piles, Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Scalds, Bad Legs, Stings
of Insects, and all kinds of inflammation. Rexona
is sold only in triangular pots at 1/6 and 3/-*
20th Century Moleskin.
The Best for Hard Wear.
Ini
Ri&mtencd Trade Mark.
((WARRANTED PURE COTTON!])
J-?
See that the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Garments can be obtained at all Storekeepers.
All hail the cricketers English ? Couldn’t Aus-
tralia’s cricketers make them a useful present?
What more acceptable than a simple umpire’s over
counter, a pitch unaffected by use, a head shelter
from the sun, a finger protector for batsmen and
wicket keepers, a no ball ind'cator, a leg before
wicket tell tale, a more resilient bat, a lighter and
less cumbrous leg and knee protector, or some other
want. The Britishers would then affectionately re-
member the Sunny South. Phillips Ormonde, patent
attorneys, 204 Flinders St., Melbourne.*
PLASMON OATS
Scotland s Best —“ Enormously Increased
in food value by the addition of Plasmon."
4 Minutes Boiling only. — Lancet.
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: 6& 7, Barrack St., Bydne%
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Apropos Lord Rosebery’s speech at the
opening of the Mitchell Library, in Edinburgh, in
which he declared that most of the contents of popu-
lar libraries ought to be destroyed as useless. Edward
Marston, the patriarch of the London publishers, re-
calls that a certain book was publicly burnt in Syd-
ney many years ago. Sampson Low and Co., of
which Marston was a partner, published in 1863 a
volume of reminiscences by Sir Roger Tlierry, a
retired N-S.W. Judge. It contained a number of
piquant details about early convicts and the distin-
guished Australian families they founded. Accord-
ing to Marston, the;book was received with the utmost
indignation in Australia, and most of it was pub-
licly burnt in Sydney. The first edition was called
in, and copies of it are now very rare. There is, or
was, one in the Melbourne Athenaeum, kept in a locked
cupboard with other literary treasures.
* * * *
Macquarie Island, where Mawson pro-
poses to erect a wireless station as a connecting link
between Australia and Antarctica, is a dependency of
Tasmania. It is about 900 miles south-east of Hobart,
and makes a hole in the ocean measuring
20' miles by five miles. The island is leased
by a Maorilander, who makes oily profits
from the boiling down of sea elephants and
penguins. Some years ago, the M.L. Government
made application to the British authorities to get
the island under their control, but negotiations were
closed when a Tas. civil servant unearthed the fact
that Macquarie was already bequeathed. No attempt
has been made to utilise it by successive Tas. Gov-
ernments or speculators, although old records show
that in one year the seal.ng industry returned £70,000.
Maoriland’s complaint, in later days, was that it was
used as a sort of No Man’s Land, whence illicit sealers
raided islands under Dominion control.
Louis Lavater enters “Burst-my-gall,” on
the road to Wild Dog Creek, Colac (Vic.), as the
gem of Australian nomenclature. If he can find the
man who offered a prize for the worst name in Colac,
L.L. might collect it.
DINNER AT A WESTERN MAIL
CHANGE.
LADY (at head of table): “Whatcher havin' —
goat or gal ah?”
Gentleman (at bottom of table): “ I'll have
goat!”
LADY: “ You won’t. Goat’s for payin’ guests.
You'll have gaiah.”
“Mallarapoonie”: In the series of re-
markable subterranean cavities that go to make up
the principal cave at Yalingup (W.A.), a tree root
as thick as a man’s arm is to be seen flourishing at
125 ft. low. This is a real, live, arboreal tentacle, in
the ■ prime of its roothood. It seems to have fol-
lowed down one of those curious concretionary pipes
so often met with in limesto-ne country, and in one
cavity through which it passes it is exposed for fully
20ft., looking like a vertical hawser, or the water
pipe of Blazes. As Westralia wears a dense beard of
trees in the region of Yalingup, it isn’t clear which
tree owns the monstrosity. The actual depth to
which this root is known to extend is really 225 ft.,
but I’ve knocked off 100 ft. for fear of being called a
liar. I hate being called a liar.
* * * *
“E.W.O’D.”: Some information that re-
cent Abo-ists appear lacking in. In average country
an ordinary toiler can sink 50 or 60 postholes per day
easily ; in good ground 80 or 90. An ordinary tim-
ber-splitter, also, can turn off 90 to 100 in pine, 50
in box, and 60 to 70 in ironbark. Have known a
most energetic navvy, named Hegarty (of Temora,
N.S.W.), to shift 12yds. of earth 2ft. deep in eight
hours. He did it for a wager, but he never wanted
to repeat the experiment.
HOW COULD SHE!
THE MAJOR : "Yes, I have been in India quite a long while.
THE LADY: “Have you? Then I suppose you were in the Mutiny?”
“The Hack” : Some issues ago I asked if
any Abo-liar could state the longest time a haystack
had been known to take to consume itself by fire.
In response, the Religious Editor obliged with particu-
lars of the flames of Hell; “Wang” tendered informa-
tion regarding the inflammable nature of tree-roots;
and sundry others have enlightened me as to the
combustion of wool, oil-wells, bricks, coal mines,
manure-heaps, kangaroos, artesian bores, rabbits, gas,
wood, snakes, water-lilies, stone-quarries and other
explosives. In fact, about the only burnable thing
that hasn’t been dealt with is the sperm whale.
May I offer a respectful and entirely unsolicited testi-
monial to the abilities which have enabled my in-
formants, so to speak, to light fhe torch of know-
ledge at my haystack, without getting even an odor
of burning straw upon the garments of their pars ?
If one of them will only tell me how long a sperm
whale will combust, I shall thank all of them for
the information they haven’t given me anent hay-
stacks, and let the matter drop.
“Slush Lamp”: Was surveying in the
Clarence River (N.S.W.) country some time ago, and
camping in the bush. In order to get an early
move on I had an
alarm clock set al-
ways for 3.30 a.m.,
and I used to notice
that immediately after
it exploded and woke
me, there was a rust-
ling in the grass and
leaves in the tent, as
if something was hur-
riedly departing. One
morning 1 woke before
the usual time, and
struck a match to look
at the hour. Then I
discovered a brawny
tiger snake coiled
round the clock, and
hugging the imple-
ment to his bosom. I
don’t know whether he
was listening to the
ticking or had an ap-
pointment about the
same time as I had,
and was taking pre-
cautions not to sleep
in too late. Anyhow, he slept in that morning, and
if he has' awakened since it must have been in Para-
dise.
* * * *
“Quineecha”: There is no necessity to be
surprised about the unpleasant meanings of some of
the aboriginal place names. They are common to
even the most cultured savages. Take the Spanish,
for instance. Conception and Dolores are probably
the two favorite names for girls. Now, there is no
doubt about Conception, and Dolores really means
the pains of childbirth, or pain equal to the pains
of childbirth. But one doesn’t mention these things ;
at least, / never have, and I’ve listened to dozens
of nice girls singing, “Oh, my Dolores.”
“Toombilla”: The 14ft. 2in. snake en-
velope exhibited in a Bourke-street (Melbourne) win-
dow does not prove that tiger snakes grow to that
length. Still, it is not a bad specimen of a carpet
snake’s overcoat. “Nunawading” will see that for
himself if he has another gaze at it, and does not
take too much notice of the placard attached.
THE UNJUST JUDGE.
FIRST VILLAIN. : "’Struth, Bill; it’s the Judge
wot sent us up for robbery with violence—
said we were a menace to society!”
SECOND VILLAIN : “The liar! We’ll make
him prove his words.”
“Mallarapoonie” from the bowels of the
earth: —
To date it has cost Westralia within gunshot of
£25,000 to make the wonders of its Yalingup
caves available to the public. Yalingup, which
faces the Indian Ocean, and is a medium
jump from Cape Naturaliste, is high on the
list of the low-lying wonders of the world. There
are bigger cavities and more imposing holes in the
ground than Yalingup, but none of more surpassing
beauty. Aston.shing effects are attained by the light-
ing. Three thousand electric bulbs have been used to
show the visitor through the mile or so of contorted
stairways and winding passages, and the result is
worth travelling very far to see. The magnificence
and the bewildering variety of the limestone deposits
are set off to wonderful advantage by the electrician’s
art. Westralia possesses other caves of great mag-
nificence, in the region of Cape Leeuwin (some of
which are of very recent discovery), but they- have
not yet been opened up. When Perth gives Leeuwin
Land the square deal it has been waiting for so long
—railway communication and a release from con-
cession-grabbing monopolists—the quaint peninsula
will become at once the sanatorium, the pleasure re-
sort, and the garden of an otherwise grim, blas-
phemous and arid country. The question whether the
illumination of holes in the ground is a business
proposition, is set aside by those who have seen
Yalingup. Anything that is pleasurable and instruc-
tive to a community, or which adds to the pride of a
people in their country, is an undertaking worthy
of attention.
“Croc. O’Dile”: Visited Leura, on the
Blue Mountains, the other day, and was paralysed to
run into two signboards, one bearing the notice,
“Togo Avenue,” and the ether “Ito Avenue.” I
knew what Togo and Ito meant, but wasn’t quite
certain about “avenue.” Rushed round to my friend
Webster and he said: “Avenue, n. [F. avenue, fr.
avenir to come to.] Now I know.
“Boswell,” from a place where brains
seem scarce: —
The Pharisee probably never hated the Gentile with
quite the same hatred with which the North Coast
(N.S.W.) five years leaseholder at £2 per acre per
annum hates the Labor proposer of a 99 years’ lease
at a couple of shillings. The mere ground parrot,
whose seven stalwart sons work away from home 10
months of the year, would keep wages down to 15s.
a week, because he has to employ one solitary laborer
for a month during the year. Their mania for send-
ing perishable things to Sydney, and running the
gauntlet of bar-bound rivers, sinking ships and
middlemen in the process, is appalling. They simply
will not sell to a local buyer. A few weeks ago, at
Brushgrove wharf, on the Clarence, I saw about 1500
bags of maize awaiting shipment to dear old Sydney.
The Indian grain was then worth 3s. lOd. a bushel in
Sussex-street. A Clarence buyer came along and
offered 3s. 9d. on the spot for the lot. All he got
was a murmur of disapproval. Then he went up to
3s. 10d., and managed to secure twenty-five bags. I
believe, had he offered 45., he wouldn’t have got
another bushel of it. Big whiskers full of burrs were
wagging on all sides, and the sage verdict, “He’ll
have us some other way,” had such an effect that the
seller of the 25 bags, would have cancelled the deal
if he could, although he had.the cash in his hand. In
defiance of Wade’s Act, 1 heard another produce mer-
chant offer to bet £2O that no local buyer could
secure 100 tons of Clarence potatoes without going
to Sydney to buy them. He had no takers, and the
offer is still open. The Northern Rivers have reared
a rare crop of decentraiisers, I don’t think! !
“Jaloom”: “Leo Lear” (B. 2/11/T1)
wants information as to the galloping powers of
snakes. Other than in their own length, I am posi-
tive that snakes’ speed is vastly overrated by most
people, while, in their own length, it is vastly under-
rated. I have tried the pace of two species, black
and whip, and found myself able, at a fast walk, to
keep well on the sprinter’s tail. Further, if “Leo”
ever sees Old Nick’s string go out to win, he’ll only
waste his good sugar if he puts it on “tiger.” The
brown two-year-old is easily the speediest of the
bunch.
* » * ♦
“Mix” : The billiard-lust is one of the ills
the Maori soul is heir to. It is liable to grip Henare
as violently as the cigarette-craze does Meri. I
know a Maori shearer who does his cheque in on bil-
liards with as much zeal as the pakeha does on
diluted sodawater. It is his invariable custom, on
pay day, to wave the draft aloft, and, crying “Kapai
te pilliard; Kapai te plutty pilliard!” to go on a
violent cue-jag, that only ends when insolvency
dawns.
* * a *
“Hee Kee”: It is true that a horse's
broken leg can be set, but not so easily as a camel’s.
I knew a ’Ghan whose three-year-old cargo-carrier,
somewhere in the vicinity of lat. 26° and long. 128°,
sustained a compound fracture of the foreleg above
the knee. Mahomet, after executing a war-dance
around the stricken ship-of-the-desert, bound the
broken mast between two axe-handles, and left the
animal to take its chance. On the way back, five
weeks later, the beast was encountered 60 miles from
where the accident occurred, following his master’s
hum.
* # « *
“Nog”: I can tell “IIullo” how far one
man can spit,
anyhow. He
boarded the train
a t Korumburra
(Vic.), and bois-
terously hailed a
pal in the car-
riage. The pal
was carrying in
his coat pocket
what appeared to
be a bottle of
beer. “Whatcher
got ?” said the
incomer joyously,
and he snatched
forth the goods,
and took out the
cork. Without
waiting for a re-
ply, he poured in-
to himself a holy
swig, and then
howled an unholy
curse. It was oil.
The festive stran-
ger spat all the
way to Outtrim,
which is six
miles.
* # * *
“Snell”: There are some decent people in
the world, even among city people who keep hens.
Like another misfortunate mentioned in a recent
“Abo.” item, an artist in my vicinity became in-
fected with nerves recently, and his pet abomination
was a lusty young rooster in an adjacent backyard,
who crowed abominably at all hours, day and dark.
When the clamor of this vociferous fowl threatened to
have serious consequences, a note of pathetic appeal
was sent to the proprietor of the lyric tenor of the
barnyard. The neighbor was a stranger, and sent
no reply till next morning, when, after a silent
night, there came a parcel and a note. The parcel
contained a plump, dressed bird ready for the oven.
The note ran: “Here is your enemy. Eat him.”
“Mix” : Resided in a bushwhacker's camp
in Pongaroa (M.L.) a few years back, when a badly-
wanted cook happened along. Took him on without ask-
ing questions. He made a fair fist of the ram, lamb,
sheep or mutton, but his first attempt at bread baking
was a failure, the mixture declining to inflate. Cook,
n®t wishing to parade his inexperience, surreptitiously
buried the dough under a thin layer of dirt and dead
manuka near the camp. The following Sunday was
a scorcher, and when Mike Murphy wandered out
after a siesta he was amazed at the sight of an
immense white dome rising through the manuka, like
the bald head of Goliath. “Come out, wan of ye,”
he roared. “Come out all of ye, an’ see the biggest
devil of a mushroom atween here an’ Invercargill:”
MORE MORAL REFORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We should try to carry religion into the simplest
phases of our everyday life, to be religious even in
our attitude towards animals. We should not lie to
them, we should not deceive them; above all, we
should not swear before them.” —Conscientious moral
reformer in Melbourne.
We want a new society
Our morals to regenerate,
And teach us plainly all to see
How very needful ’tis that we
Should never venture to abate
Our lofty mood, and have a spat
Before the cat.
We must not let our feelings go,
Give vent to demonstrations rash,
Nor any evil temper show,
Indulge in threats or give a blow
Or use that coarse expletive “Dash.”
Unseemly acts and vulgar rows
Deprave the cows.
In all your dealings with the dog
Be honest still and upright too ;
Recite to Flo the decalogue;
Cast all your pearls before the hog.
Do nothing mean, say nought untrue
That may corrupt your saintly pens
Of Leghorn hens.
It may be well to further go,
And circumspectly bear yoursel’
Where sober watermelons grow,
And saintly green peas in a row
(Green peas are so susceptible) ;
Let not the sins of flesh o’errun
The on-i-on !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


<l) You will find it an advantage to know
a man who owns a motor-car this time of
the year
(2) You will discover that motoring
on the South Coast is a fine seda-
tive to the nerves-
(3) And t.hgt the bull-ant is still
capable of imparting a moral
lesson to the sluggard who sits
on jhis nest.
(4) When this sort of thing happens, you
will know you are in the cow country.
(6) Certain primitive notions
on the subject of the morning
shower still prevail.
(5) And you will have an opportunity of seeing
the bear cow slave at work.
(7) You will be able to study the
effects of amazement as depicted
on the countenance of the bucolic
horse.
(8) And you will learn how exhilarating are the
effects of a week’s motoring on the skin of the nose.
A TOUR TO THE N.S.W. SOUTH COAST.


Why suffer from biliousness, constipation, indiges-
tion or sour stomach when you can cure these ail-
ments by Chamberlain’s Tablets?*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
DIABETES.
This highly dangerous disease will in its earlier
stages be remedied by prompt treatment with Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Take them in time. Price,
1/6 and 2/6.*
WARNING.
CALDWELLS,
The Australian Ink .
WON’T WASH BABIES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
IN TOPHET.
“What makes Recordus so happy?”
“ Oh, he’s booking up New Year resolutions.”
“T.T.”: Has The Bulletin ever
met Pickled Smith? I’ve just found
him in a book-list —“The Bible and
Islam,” by H. Preserved Smith. I
think he must be Bruce’s brother,
for Bruce clearly doesn’t belong to this gen-
eration, and has probably been kept in brine
for at least two centuries. Or perhaps it is
Bruce, though I always understood that
Bruce’s other name was Arthur.
“Locust” sends a Titheradge yarn:—
Tith. and the late Billy Elton were guests of Guy
Boothby at his Thames-side house. Guy ran his novel
factory by the aid of a gramophone, into which he
dictated the soft and pleading speeches of the heroine
and the bold, bad remarks of the villain. Thereafter
a secretary listened and typed the products for the
“best seller” market. Boothby, during the visit of
his quondam Australian actor friends, asked them to
do something out of their repertoire into a gramo-
phone, in order to place it imperishably on record.
As Tith. had played Hamlet to Elton’s gravedigger,
they gave the graveyard scene. In the morning
Boothby’s typist rushed in to inquire after his chief’s
health. He feared he had gone mad in the night,
for the plot of the novel, then in progress, had gone
all askew, and the characters were talking stuff that
was beneath contempt. Investigation revealed that
by accident Tith. and Elton had spoken their piece
into the middle of Boothby’s shriek of literature.
The secretary, accustomed tp the “best seller” mar-
ket, hadn’t recognised Shakspeare, but he felt in-
stinctively that the bard was deplorable compared to
Boothby.
Alfred Tennyson Dickens, talking of his
father to a New York Sun interviewer, told
a new story of domestic interest. It came
from an old maidservant of the Charles
Dickens household whom A.T.D. unearthed
in England last year. When she was parlor-
maid in his father’s house, there was a cook-
lady whose romantic heart had gone ou.t to
the novelist. She used to leave the kitchen
door ajar so that she could watch
him walking to and fro for morn-
ing exercise, and inside she worshipped
in secret and burned incense. But one
morning, when the air was heavy with the
sighs of onions and music from stew-pans,
the “master” called out: “Mary! what on
earth do you mean by letting loose all those
kitchen smells! Close that door at once,
and keep it shut.” And the cook-lady never
smiled again.
A man boasting the courage of his convic-
tions in an aggravated form, happened into
Richmond (Vic.) Court a few days before
the holidays. His convictions numbered 31,
and, as he was now threatened with a 32nd,
the beaks, perceiving the futility of the long
procession of fines, offered to let him off
if he would take the pledge. Some men
would have given the promise, and broken it
as soon as they got outside; but this victim
was of sterner stuff, and coldly declined “on
account of the approaching festive season.”
When Cold Tea is otherwise disengaged, it
might hold an inquiry into this “festive sea-
son” fetich, to discover why men look extra-
long upon the wine at Christmas. One can
understand it in connection with the anni-
versary of a man’s birth, or his wedding, or
any other disastrous occasion ; but why peo-
ple should overload themselves with indigest-
ible food and inassimilable liquor on the occa-
easion of the birth of Christ is a dark mys-
tery.
“Vagabond” sends a scrap of biography:
Sophia Hinerangi (“The Lady of the Sky”), better
known as Sophia the Guide, has taken the track to
the Reinga Land. Sophia was chief of the Geyserland
guides when the Pink and Purple Terraces were a
feature of Rotorua, and she saw the phantom canoe
which appeared on Lake Rotomahana the day before
the eruption that put the Terraces back into the
melting pot. When the grasshopper began to be a
burden to Sophia, she left off being a guide, and
became caretaker of the Maori museum at Whaka,
and more check-suited tourists went to see her than
the carving and curios. A popular press yarn was
that she was the daughter of a British officer. As a
matter of fact, her father was a Scotch gunsmith. A
half-sister was Takiora. who guided a white force
into the bush against the Ngatu-o-te-Manu stockade
—and the white troops got a number one licking.
A Yarra-sider writes :
An old Melbourne iden-
tity is a great man in
America these times. Al-
fred Tennyson Dickens^—
he of the invariable bell-
topper and old-fashioned
air of rakishness—h a s
been a person of growing
importance ever since he
left Australia under en-
gagement to the Taits.
His lecturing tour in Eng-
land was a success; and
now, in America, his read-
ings and his combination
of famous names, and his
resemblance to his father,
are bringing triii bushels
of shekels. In Cliicago he
talked to a vast audience
at the Auditorium. He is
booked to appear at the
Carnegie Hall, Noo Yark,
on February 12, which is
the Charles Dickens cen-
tenary, and his American
tour will probably keep
him busy until late in the
year, when he is due to
commence another season
in Britain. This, after 40
years of wasted time in
Australia! He told an
American interviewer that
bis father, the famous
Charles, was writing “Ed-
win Drood ’’ when he —-
A.T.D. —left England, and
it was only last year that
he returned to his birth-
land.
Poor old Sarah Francisco, of Port Adel-
aide, has to do one more Christmas in the
lock-up—her 20th there. Sarah, who is a
decayed Rechabite, had been out some time,
and there began to be a certain amount of
betting, as to her chances of finishing the
holidays at large. Then she got on her
291st recorded jag, and now she won’t
be out till February. Sarah Francisco
is a solid evidence that jug doesn’t cure
thirst.
CREDIT.
THE FIRST VIOLIN: “Barnstormer tries to do
credit to the profession, all right.”
THE COMEDIAN “ Yes, he believes that slenty
of style brings plenty of credit.”
Dead as the result of a cable-car accident
in Edinburgh, Richard Jordan, champion
draughts player, who recently visited Aus-
tralia. His favorite pastime was playing
20 or 30 opponents simultaneously, and this
game with the tram-car represented the
only occasion when he hesitated about his
move. He was aged 37.
THE HOLIDAY SPIRIT AND THE
LOLLY OF SPARING THE ROD.
Parliament closed its session in New South Wales
with a scene of foolish riot. Nobody can be sur-
prised at anything which occurs nowadays in “the
Macquarie-street stadium.” — Daily paper.
The question of what could be done in the way of
removing a Speaker whom the House desired to get
rid of naturally excites interest in this country.—
Daily paper.
The Lady :“ A nicely conducted school for
decent boys to attend, I don’t think ! //
all THAT don’t prove that til little dears
’ud prefer a new man over ’em when they
starts school agen—then I’d just like t’
know wot it does mean ! ”
The Man : “ Well, to me, ma'am, it suggests
that a nezu rod over ’em, when the holidays,
are finished, would be much more to the
point.”
Three Australian bush books fell in for
review on the one page of London Times
the other day—one each by E. J. Brady
(“The King’s Caravan”), A. L. Playdon
(“The Trooper Police of Australia”), and C.
E. W. Bean (“The Dreadnought of the Dar-
ling”) . The Times bunched them together
under the title “The Bush, Maker of Men,”
and implored the globe-trotter not to think
he had seen Australia because he had visited
the Australian seaboard and met the fussy
townsfolk, the self-important city folk, man-
aging the affairs of their States and (when
they are allowed) of the Commonwealth, as
if the whole continent was a mere backyard
to their office buildings. It is something of
an anomaly that there isn’t a daily paper in
the world with a more profound contempt
for the pretentious city Australian and a
more profound respect for the bush Austra-
lian than the Times, the supposed organ of
hidebound Toryism.
“Karee” writes: —
Hilaire Belloc is a naturalised Englishman, who,
in spite of that, served his term in the French
army; and “Singemoine” (B. 16/11/’ll) ascribes
the latter fact to the
man’s passionately -
French sympathies.
Therein “Singemoine”
errs. According to the
French law, the natur-
alisation of a French-
man is void, unless he
has gone through his
military training.
Should he naturalise
before undergoing ser-
vice, and, on the
strength of his new
nationality, fail to
turn up for service, he
is a deserter, liable to
a term of penal servi-
tude should he ever
land on French terri-
tory. The naturalisa-
tion ■ only counts from
the day he leaves the
barracks. The same
applies to Germany
and Italy. One of my
brothers is now serv-
ing in France, though
he is naturalised in
Australia.
Ebenezer Ward, ex-M.L.C. of S. Aus.,
who reached Adelaide first in the company
of G. V. Brooke, the actor, was on the staff
of the Melbourne Herald, then a morning
paper, away back in 1859. As far as Ward
knows, the only other survivor of those
days is George Collins Levey, afterwards
secretary to many exhibitions.
From “an ex-Episcopal Private Secre-
tary” :
The lately-paragraphed J. 11. B. Curtis, for many
years secretary of Melbourne Athenaeum—in religion
Father Anselm, 0.5.8. —never lost the It.C. faith.
When a paper war was raging between Archbishop
Carr, and the then Anglican Bishop of Melbourne,
my right reverend step-father in God was having
the worst of it. I was deputed to approach Curtis
with a view to get-
ting assistance in the
controversy, also to
adroitly mention that
work as an Anglican
cleric awaited him if
he would sign the act
of obedience. When I
mentioned the purpose
of my mission, the old
war horse glared at
me for a few mo-
ments, and then pour-
ed forth some vigor-
ou s Anglo - Saxon.
“Tell them that sent
you I despise them.
Though I am a fallen
priest in the matter
of discipline, I’ll never
be a traitor to my or-
dination vows.” Syd-
ney-siders well remem-
ber Arthur Galton,
who was Private Sec-
retary to a Governor,
and whom G. 11. Dibbs
appointed State His-
torian, at £3OO per
annum. Galton was
an H.C. priest, who,
i n consequence o f
swelled head at not
getting hi s writings
marked Nihil obstal,
by the Superior of his
Order, cleared out.
When he arrived in
Sydney with the Gov-
ernor’s staff he was
recognised by Father
Keating, S.J., then
Provincial of the Jesu-
its. In that way Pat-
rick Francis, Cardinal
Moran heard of Gal-
ton’s antecedents, and
was for cutting him
dead at vice-regal cere-
monies, but gentler
coun se 1 s prevailed.
Galton was, in fact,
invited to visit Manly to make a holiday during the
College vacation. He did so, but lay low about his
knowledge of things sacerdotal. He is now Anglican
rector of the pretty living of Windermere, in West-
moreland, England.
Two Australian missionary ladies, Miss
Sears and Miss Molloy, got a mention dur-
ing the recent Chinese troubles. They were
ordered by the British Consul to get off the
battlefield, so to speak; in other words, they
were desired to leave a town where a great
scrap was imminent. They declined, and,
apparently, proposed to wait for the crown
of martyrdom. That, of course, would have
involved calling out the British army and
navy later on to collect satisfaction; there
would have been much row, much unpleasant
bloodshed and smashed bonnet, much worry
over the burial, and much demand for particu-
lars. So the heroines were dragged away,
and are to be sent back to Australia as a
pair of insubordinate saints. Few things
age a Consul more rapidly than martyrs.
FINISHING THE OLD YEAR—AND
STARTING THE NEW.
Premier Ward was a frayed man towards
the end of the M.L. election campaign. To
an interrupter at a meeting in Dannevirke,
Hawkes Bay, he snapped:—
You, my friend, remind me of the iEolian harp
struck by lightning. I will explain the remark. The
vEolian harp is a lyre, and being struck by lightning
is a blasted lyre, and that is what you are.
Whatever is the aristocracy coming to!
The cable is a scrappy beast, and the
thrilling story of Dan O’Connor and the
countess who was blackmailed grows less
coherent as it comes through bit by bit. It
is hard to discover what the blackmail was
about, or who wrote the letters, or what
they contained, but it is still harder to dis-
cover why Dan appears in the case at all.
He isn’t charged with having done or said
anything that a noble Irishman need be
ashamed of; in fact, he figures rather as a
knight errant trying to drive three shady
characters off the heroine’s premises. Ap-
parently his large and generous heart and
his romantic admiration of beauty led the
old gemleman to hover round, and possibly
somebody borrowed his name or his bell-
topper or his outward semblance, or some-
thing, while he was hovering. Anyhow,
there is a feeling that the cable has spoiled
a pretty love story by a sordid desire to
save money.
ON HIS FEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King George’s action in spending so much time
with the veterans has been the more appreciated be-
cause he had previously been slandiny for a full
hour.—Cabled Durbar grovel.
The monarch stood a weary hour
And heard the nation’s babblement,
Amid the emblems of his power,
Like some bewhiskered monument;
Scorning with pride to take a seat,
He stood on his Imperial feet.
About him gaudy turbans gleamed,
Above him flaming awnings spread,
Ten thousand niggers round him streamed,
The large flags fluttered overhead ;
lie suffered somewhat in the heat,
But, like a Trojan, kept his feet.
On elephants with gold bedight
Went prince and rajah, king and khan ;
He did not falter at the sight
Of array of black and tan.
He was ndt weak nor obsolete,
But, strong to suffer, kept his feet.
The yelling crowds, the raucous din
Of India thundered in his ears,
The smell —rich soul of Asian sin,
Swept upward from the elder years,
He braced himself the storm to meet,
And, fearless still, he kept his feet.
Unpropped and unsupported still,
The wondering niggers saw him stand,
A thing of power and dauntless will,
A person fitted to command ;
They felt the moments passing fleet,
And wondered how he kept his feet.
He did not faint, he did not fail,
He did not tumble to the ground ;
The crowd stood rather greenly pale
To view his trousers stiff and sound ;
And still the Asian winds repeat
The tale of his Imperial feet.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


SUMMERTIME MERCERY.
HI RTS and Underwear for Mankind have been specially studied by us since 1868, and in
this the Summer of 19 1 Iwe have a full range of all the different weights and makes so
necessary to meet
the vagaries of the Aus-
tralian climate. From
our long - associations
with the various Mills
and Manufactories we
can show or send you un-
equalled value in Shirts,
Hats, p yj am as and Un-
derwear. We quote —
Shirts.
PLEATED RUFFLED SHIRTS—
Soft fronts, with stilt' cult's and bands,
also with soft double cuffs, in self
colors Blue, Green and Helio. Price,
6/6, or 3 for 19/-.
FASHION SHIRTS.—Soft fronts and
stiff cuffs, in Smart Designs, and in
Plain White. Price, 3/6, or 3 for 10/-
ZEPHYR SHIRTS.—Very Smart
Zephyr, White Ground, with Neat
Stripes, also Dark-toned Ground,
with Stripes and Fancy Designs, in
all colors. Price, 4/6, or 3 for 13/-
Also ZEPHYRS, Light and Dark
Grounds, with exclusive colorings,
Stripe Designs. Price, 6/6, or 3 for
19/-
CAMBRIC SHIRTS.—A Full Range
of Fine Cambric Shirts, white
ground, with decided stripe, in 6 dif-
ferent colors, light and dark grounds,
with exclusive colorings. Price, 5/6,
or 3 for 16/-
TENNIS SHlRTS.—Prices, 2/11,
3/6, 4/6, 5/6 and 7/6.
WHITE JAPANESE CREPE.—Un-
equalled for coolness and durability.
Price, 4/6, or 3 for 13/-.
CREAM SERGE TENNIS SHIRT.
Price, 7/6, or 3 for 21/6.
GOLF SHIRTS, with double detach-
able soft collar, and double soft cuffs,
in Japanese Crepe, self colors and
block stripes. Price, 7/6, or 3 for
21/6.
TROPICAL SHIRTS, made of very
thin Ceylon Shirting, with soft
double cuffs and starched band, both
comfortable and durable. Price, 7/6,
or 3 for 21/6.
THE CITY SHIRT, specially suitable
for Business Men, in Zephyr mater-
ials, up-to-date colorings and stripes.
Price, 4/-, or 3 for 11/6.
mmmm n >;
Kgg
vm
mmm
Hi
Hi
IfJ
MS
s«s
tniTO
m
PJW
mm
xr&SS&i
' Wm ,
WM
HHj
J
:
. %
win
it. f m
* %
1
wmmmm
WMaMmfM-X i i if#
Wagga Wf
WmMmm m
7 \
i :
m
mm
B BHSB
H
BfliS
iW WW
If JIH ■■J, i h
Sg&HH
mbmbbmer
m® mm
I ISM MUIM il
':; .
■ I•: .-
IWI
|| f immSmm fffSBN
hmmmm a
11 stew#™*
Hats.
MEN’S PANAMAS, Narrow Brim, to 2J -21/- and 257-
MEN’S PANAMAS, Medium Brim 12/6, 15/6, 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 307-
GENT’S SMART CITY LOUNGE PELTS, Grey with Black Bands
6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6
GENT’S FRAME PELTS, in all Colors. Prom 5/6 to 14/6, in Narrow,
Medium and Wide Brims. '
BOYS’ BOATERS. —Our special Satin-lined Boater. Price 2/11. Others
at . 3/6, 3/11, 4/6
GENT’S FASHIONABLE BOATERS, with Low Crown and Wide Brim. ...
4/6, 4/11, .5/6
GOWING’S SPECIAL WATERPROOF BOATER costs only 5/6. Lasts out
four of the ordinary Boaters.
Pyjamas.
COOL CASHMERE PYJAMAS, in up-to-date stripes and colorings.
Price, 14/6, or 3 for 427-
SMART CEYLON PYJAMAS, Broad Stripes .... Price, 8/6, or 3 for 24/6
JAPANESE CREPE PYJAMAS, White Grounds and Neat Stripes
Price, 7/6, or 3. for 21/6
OXFORD PYJAMAS, Latest Colorings and Designs, with Stand-up or Roll
Collar Price, 6/6, or 3 for 16/-
Good Underwear.
WHITE INDIA GxiUZE UNDERSHIRTS—
-34-36in., 1/11; 40in., 2/3; 44m., 2/11
- 34-36 38 40 up to 50
EINE ENGLISH BALBIUGGAN UNDER-
SHIRTS 1/11 2/3 2/6
EINE ENGLISEI BALBRIGGAN UNDER-
PANTS 2/9 2/11 3/3
COOL CELLULAR NET UNDERSHIRTS ... 3/3 3/6 3/6 4/3
TRUNK DRAWERS ABOVE KNEE 4/6 4/9 4/11 5/3
EINE CASHMERE UNION SHIRTS 3/11 4/3 4/6 5/3
FINE CASHMERE UNION PANTS 3/11 4/6 5/3 5/9
SUPERIOR ALL-WOOL CASHMERE SHIRTS AND PANTS
From 4/9 to 13/6
IRISH LINEN MESH UNDERSHIRTS AND PANTS 6/11, 8/6
ANGLO-INDIA GAUZE & JAEGER UNDERWEAR KEPT IN STOCK.
Bathing Costumes.
OUR ALL-WOOL CANADIAN COSTUMES, in Fine and Heavy Wool.
Best Quality Only 6/6
LADIES’ ALL-WOOL CANADIAN COSTUMES 6/6, 7/11, 8/11
WHITE SWEATERS, Best Values From 4/11 to 14/-
fh
486, 488 & 490 George St.; &3, 5, 7,9,
11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue containing 120 Pages of‘Mens and Boys Wear.
All Orders Carriage Paid in Australia.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
4-
The Australian Government still proposes
to reduce the legal gold reserve against Federal
notes to 25 p.c., but it guarantees, in a verbal
fashion, that the amount actually held will be 40 p.c.
The notes issued now represent almost exactly
£10,000,000, so the legal reserve will be £2,500,000,
and the promised actual reserve £4,000,000. It
follows that the Government will be able to cash
£2,000,003 of its notes on demand, but if it cashes
£2,000,004 of its notes, the deed will be unlawful,
for it will thereby bring the reserve 10s. below the
legal limit. In other words, should the notes in
circulation get down to £7,999,997, there will be
against them a legally available reserve of ss. Un-
fortunately, the banks hold more than £5,000,000
worth of the notes already issued, and if two of the
biggest institutions presented their paper for imme-
diate redemption, as they are fully entitled to do,
they could hopelessly wreck even the proposed 40
p.c. gold reserve, and bring the whole business into
disgrace and disrepute. It is for this reason that
The Bulletin has advocated, in season and out of
season, the adoption of the Canadian banking system.
In Canada the banks are required to hold 40 p.c. of
their cash reserves in Federal paper money, and they
have also to be prepared, without trenching on that
40 p.c., to pay cheques up to a certain amount in
Federal paper money. Therefore they cannot, by any
possibility, deposit their whole stock of Federal
paper on the Treasury counter for instant redemption.
In Canada a 25 p.c. gold reserve is more than
sufficient. In Australia there is no law to compel
any bank to hold even £1 in Federal paper. There
is no law to compel all the banks put together to
hold £1 in Federal paper. Therefore, even a 40 p.c.
reserve (of which only 15 p.c. is legally available)
may prove entirely insufficient. Unless the system is
altered, the solvency of the Federal note issue, when
the gold reserve is reduced, will depend entirely on
the goodwill and forbearance of the private banks.
And yet if the reserve isn’t reduced an absurdly large
amount of gold will be kept lying idle. *
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia: —
Writ- Added
ten to
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1899.. £499,753 £222.764 £91,058 £7219 £178,712
1900.. 524,121 294.974 87,779 690 140,678
1901 566,417 303,190 90,971 725 171,531
1902.. 583,149 286,953 100,852 400 194,944
1903.. 634,071 303,836 112,270 217,965
1904.. 717,062 328,920 129,591 258,551
1905 762,906 361.053 138,370 963 262,520
1906.. 824,624 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907.. 898,253 374,809 157.512 1993 363,939
1908.. 970,611 407,168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909.. 1,043,801 449,957 157,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1911.. 1,198,148 514,596 176,344 4744 502,464
This healthy office continues to pile up its figures,
and most of them are better as well as larger. From
the Australian point of view they would be better
still if we knew how much of the business is being
done here, and how much in S’Africa. S’African
business may be as good as Australian, but we know
what the Australian risks are —pretty well, anyhow-
and we don’t know what the other fellow’s are; and
this life-assurance isn’t a business many people care
to take risks about. On the other hand, there are
people who don’t care about putting all their eggs m
one basket, particularly when their widows and or-
phans will have to live on those eggs. No doubt the
Australian policy-holder and intending policy-holder
would like the Australian business separated from the
foreign (mostly S’African), so that he could be
assured, anyhow, that the latter wasn’t altogether dis-
astrous. But if that,were done, and the S’African
business were shown to be giving rather better results
than the Australian, the S’African competitor wouldn t
be long before he asked the S’African insurer why he
didn’t get the benefit of this superiority for himself,
instead of sharing it with the Australian. And the
same thing would happen in Australia if —as is most
likely—the actual results are the other way about.
Still, while the vigorous canvass for business in
S’Africa is always likely to do the office some iiarm
in Australia, there are a heap of people in both
countries who will be attracted by the big totals
which the association can show as a result of work-
ing the two fields. They are not very sensible people
who are caught by this big-figure bait, but the
office probably notices that the bank doesn t look
at their cheques any longer than it does at other
people’s. _
But, with all the advantages of a very energetic
new-business organisation, the National Mutual s is
not cheap business. No great number of policies seem
to flow to it automatically; Brown, jun., doesn t take
out a policy in the National Mutual merely because
Brown, sen., had one and Brown, grandfather,
had another before him. Also, the office missed its
chance and didn’t establish an Industrial department
to feed the other, though some of its officers long
a o-o saw what could be done in that way. In conse-
quence of all these things, it can’t show better figures
than these: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1902 .. £l7 511 p.c.
1903 .. 17 14 1 ~
1904 .. 18" 1 5 ~
1905 .. 18 2 9 ~
1906 .. 17 13 9 ~
1907 .. £l7 10 8 p.c.
1908 .. 16 14 6 „
1909 .. 15 1 1 ~
1910 .. 15 0 3 „
1911 .. 14 14 4 „
They are not. bad figures, by any means, but there
are other concerns with much better. Nor is the
new business very cheap. Assume that the old or
renewal business Costs 7 p.c. of the premiums, and
the single-premium and annuity business costs 3
p.c.; then the balance of the expenses will be tne
cost of getting tne. new business. On that basis
the latter last year -cSst 110.6 p.c. of the new-busi-
ness premiums—a figfee that can’t be considered
small in the present prosperous conditions of Aus-
tralia, when big policy ought to be easier to get
than at any other tim&in this country’s history.
Bonuses in life offices are derived from three prin-
cipal sources: (1) an excess of interest earnings over
those assumed when the rates of premium were
drafted; (2) a lower expjaise rate than was assumed ;
(3) a better mortality, , experience. The National
Mutual can’t get much from the second source; but
from the first it does very well. This shows recent
figures: . r ,
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1902 .. £4 11 7 p.c.
1903 .. 4 13 11 „
1904 .. 4 13 9 „
1905 .. 4 13 7 „
1906 .. 4 12 8 „
1907 .. £4 11 6 p.c.
19rt8 .. 4 11 8 „
1909 .. 4 12 11 ~
1910 ‘ 4 13 3 „
19114 13 0 „
Or, if you like to show the earnings without de-
ducting rates and taxes, as most offices- do, the earn-
ings are £4 16s. 6d. p.c.; but if y'ou>do that you
must add rates and taxes to the expenses, and that
would bring them up to £ls 9s. p.c.. of the in-
come, instead of the £l4 14s. 4d. p.c. shown above.
High interest earnings are not, however, an un-
mixed blessing, inasmuch as they mostly depend on
more or less risky securities. This office goes nap
on loans, mostly on mortgage. The following
shows how the total assets are divided up:—
1900. 1910. 1911.
Public securities .. .. 3‘4 p.c. 5T p.c. s’3p.c.
Mortgages .. .. .. 50’5 ~ 55‘1 ~ 58‘4 ~
Foreclosures .. .. 4'4 ~ I‘3 ~ l'O „
Freeholds 12'7 ~ 12'8 „ 11'8 ~
Loans on policies .. .. 14‘3 „ 9'B ~ 9’9 „
Other securities .. .. 14‘7 „ 16‘9 „ 13'6 ~
“Other securities” include £122,432 of “deferred
instalments oi annual premiums”—a very doubtful
asset, which practically all other offices now disre-
gard—and £218,223 of fixed deposit money. The
weak feature is the very poor holding of public
securities—the safest of all assets, the most easily
converted, and the least expensive to manage.
Mainly as a set-off against the risk involved in
mortgages, the co. has a depreciation reserve of
£70,912; this was drawn upon last year to the
extent of £4744. There are safe mortgages, no doubt,
but there are very unsafe ones, especially in a
country like Australia, which is booming to-day
and scattering seed-wheat and relief works to-mor-
row ; and the present is just the time the fluctua-
tion reserve ought to be mounting up instead of
being whittled away.
The National Mutual still hangs on to the trien-
nial valuation and bonus, and it had one during the
past year. The premium income during the three
years was £2,415,501, and the surplus divided was
£473,009, so that the average bonus was 19.6
p.c. It is by no means fat; the society will have to
get up to 38.4 p.c. to reach the best Australian re-
cord ; though, in comparing bonus results, one eye
must always be kept on the table of premiums.
Obviously the office that takes most out of the
policy-holders’ right-hand pocket in premiums ought
to be able to drop most back into the same person’s
left-hand pocket in bonuses.
* * * *
The Insurance Office of Australia,
Ltd., which is the 1.0. A. for short. —Promoted 12
months ago by two energetic young insurance men,
11. A. Stockfeld and H. S. Doherty, this co. has
achieved the rather remarkable record of getting a
premium income of £41,852 in its first year. Of
this it laid off £15,901, thus leaving a net premium
income of £25,951. No doubt a good part of this
re-insurance went to a special Re-insurance Cos.,
formed and managed by the same people, and run in
the same premises out of the same inkpot. The 1.0.A.’s
total income was £28,400. Losses absorbed £6748
and expenses £19,082, less £1543 charged to the
Re-insurance Cos. ; total, £24,285. The surplus was
thus £4115. Avery proper thing has been done in
paying no dividend out of" this amount. Very proper
for two reasons. First, a considerable part of the in-
come has not been earned, because policies are mostly
for 12 months, and hardly any of them have run
their full term. Obviously, when a policy has been
only three months in force, three-fourths of the pre-
mium, less the office loading to cover expenses, has
not been earned, and ought to be reserved to cover
the unexpired part of the risk. And, secondly,
£5250 of the co.’s capital was represented by pre-
liminary and establishment expenses; and you
couldn’t square a claim on even a combusted dog-
kennel by offering to transfer a half cwt. or so of
preliminary and establishment exes. The co. thus
had two necessary things to do with its money: to
establish a re-insurance or unearned premiums re-
serve and to wipe out the fictitious asset. It really
didn’t matter much which was done, so long as the
co. kept the money. The management chose to wipe
out as much of the preliminary exes, as it could, and
thereby made an excellent start on what ought to be
a profitable career. For there is no doubt about the
field. At The Bulletin’s last count there were 48
foreign insurance offices visibly doing business in
Sydney alone, and they held. 55 p.c. of the risks in
the metropolitan area, leaving, roughly, only 45 p.c.
of the premiums to be collected by Australian offices.
Yet there is no question about the strength of these
Australian offices. This 1.0. A. Co.’s paid capital is
£75,150; wipe off the £1135 still unrepresented
by tangible assets, and there remains £74,015 of
funds, equal to 209 p.c. of the year’s premiums. The
co. is thus in a 30 p.c. stronger position than the
average British co.; and the British co. is far
stronger than the average foreign underwriter. More-
over, the Australian insurer has a chahce to test the
quality of an Australian co.'s assets. This co., for
example, has £50,500 on fixed deposit, and its other-
assets are scheduled, and they are altogether a good
lot. The foreign office frequently shows dazzling
figures; but the Australian has no chance to know
what is behind those figures. Yet figures of them-
selves are of no value; you couldn’t re-erect a
burned-down building with a million tons of them.
* * * *
The Fourth Victoria Permanent Build-
ing Society (Melbourne) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £4,214 2 p.c. =£2022 £2192 £4,315
1900 . 5,586 3 „ „ 3036 1550 £IOOO 5,315
1901.. 6,865 4 „ „ 3864 3OOl 8,316
1902.. 11,402 5 ~ ~ 4578 6824 15,140
1903.. 12,811 6 ~ ~ 5248 1046 6517 21,657
1904 7,746 6 ~ ~ 4820 2926 24,583
1905 7,640 6 „,, 4542 208 2890 27,473
1906 8,768 6 ~ ~ 4549 1061 3158 30,631
1907 9,496 7 „ „ 5289 838 3369 34,001
1908.. 10,711 7 „,, 5332 5095 284 34 ,84
1909 . 11,566 7 „ „ 5392 3767 2407 36, 91
1910 . 11,988 8 „ „ 6241 3824 1923 38,(14
1911.. 11,026 8 „ „ 6330 1724 2972 41,586
This society came through the boom pretty well.
That is to say, it emerged with a black eye and a
battered belltopper, but it didn’t drag anybody else
into the gutter, as most of the others did. It con-
tinued to pay depositors the agreed-upon interest,
and they had their principal on the due dates. But
the shareholders’ black eye was painful; with one
cut £11,869 was written off their little lot, and
even then dividends had to be dropped. However,
Melbourne gradually picked itself up, and prices re-
covered so much that a special reserve was created
out of surpluses realised or expected to be realised
over and above written down values. This special
reserve has been gradually drawn upon until now it
has been reduced to £2183. Last year £724 came
off it; the other £IOOO, shown as written off, fur-
ther reduced the book value of the society’s Collins-
street freehold, which was re-valued at £40,000 in
1894, has since had £4478 spent upon it, and now
stands at £34,000. Besides getting out of the
gutter itself, the society has helped a few others,
not exactly on to the pavement, but to a more or less
decent burial. It took over at various times the
Lygon Permanent, South Melbourne, City of
Prahran, Premier and Planet building so-
cieties; and as land values have been travelling up-
wards most of the time, no doubt it has found this
undertaking business profitable. Within the last
few months it has bought the assets of the Universal
Building and Investment Society, valued at £80,340;
and that will mean another little job for the tomb-
stone-maker.
The next table goes further into details regarding
the Fourth Victoria: —
1895. 1900. 1910. 1911.
Permanent capital .. £35,606 £72,<41 £72,741 £72,741
Investing capital.. .. 58,171 28,003 5,580 6,679
Deposits, etc. .. .. 134,076 74,334 182,048 257,231
Advances 117,357 89,345 259,636 259,541
Foreclosed properties .. 64,146 49,935 6,411 3,752
Other freeholds .. .. 40,000 44 478 37,000 34,000
Universal Society assets
Interest earned p.c. on
average assets.. .. 3/18/- 4/19/- 7/7/- (/3/-
In calculating the interest earned for the past year,
the Universal assets have been excluded, they having
been taken over only just before the term closed. An
excellent feature of the whole business is the rapid
clearing-out of foreclosed properties; £3752 covers
all that are left. But while the co. has been selling
off one lot of properties, it has been advancing money
on another lot, bought, no doubt, at the same high
level of values. Still, the building society which,
to begin with, insists on a fair margin between
market value and advance, isn’t in much danger
unless values drop very suddenly, because every fort-
nightly repayment widens the margin and puts the
mortgagee safer; and, though a shrinkage in values
is almost inevitable sooner or later, it isn t likely to
be so sudden or severe as that one was which was
caused through the bursting of the wild borrowing
boom 18 years ago. # »
Union Steamship Cos. of New Zealand
(M.L.) :
Added
to lie- lte-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. selves. J*ives.
Tono 7 p. e. = £42,000 <1230,401
190 l!! £01,020 8„ ~ 48,000 £43,020 274,024
19u2 75.227 8 ~ ~ 48,000 27,-27 301.-51
1903!! 90,744 8„ ~ 48,000 42,744 343,995
1904.. 129,928 10 „ „ 60,0 0 69,928 413,923
19.)5.. 96,764 8,, ~ 48,000 -48,.64 462,687
1906.. 94,906 10 „ „ 60,000 34,906 497, 5y3
1907.. 144,324 10 ~ ~ 69,000 84,324 581,91/
Transferred to Capital €200,000, leaving.. 381,91/
1908.. 241,334 9 p.c.= 71,667 169,667 561,584
1909.. 98,022 9„ „ 71,667 26,3r/5 5/7,939
1910.. 104,832 9„ „ 71,667 33,165 511,104
1911.. 116,431 9„ „ 71,667 44,764 655,868
It will be noticed that in 1904, 1907 and 1908 the
profits look as though a rich relation had died
and left them something. The fact, no doubt, is that
the co. had been steadily putting something up its
sleeve in case of accident, and as the accident didn t
happen the sleeve became so uncomfortably heavy
that the co. decided to shake something out of it.
The wise shipping co. knows that the hulls of its
arks will not last for ever, and that their boilers
will probably give out long before the hulls. > Conse-
quently out of that ship’s or some other ship s earn-
ings it puts by enough to buy anew ship or anew
boiler when the old ship or the old boiler gets past
work. If the co. is very prosperous and the manage-
ment very prudent, it will make large additions to
this fund in case the tide should turn presently and
the co. find itself struggling to pay even the ordi-
nary dividend. But if the tide doesn t turn the
fund grows so large that it presently far more than
counterbalances the depreciation. In that case the
management may feel itself entitled, as it has done
in this case, to transfer some of the surplus to profit,
usually with the object of next transferring it to
capital and thereafter paying dividends upon it.
Some cos. disclose this depreciation or renewal re-
serve. Then, of course, if they show the reserve on the
one side of the balance-sheet, they have to show
corresponding assets on the other. Others don t.
They have made the profit, and they must show
that; but they square things by writing down their
ship and other properties to the same extent. 11
this co., for instance, made £200,000 in excess of
actual expenses last year, and only shows £116,431,
it might hide the other £83,569 by the simple process
of writing that amount off ships, etc., or by spending
that much on ships, etc., without increasing the
“ships” item in the balance-sheet. Many years this
co. has actually reduced the item while adding
largely to the tonnage of the fleet ; that is to say,
it has not onlv paid for the new ships out of profits,
but it has also written down some of the old ships.
It used to be possible to follow the Union Co.’s
movements closely ; but things have changed, and so
far as the tonnage of the ships is concerned, some of
the figures in the last few lines of this table are
only approximate: —
Value Set Tonnage Change
Tonnage on Added in Value
of Shipping During During
Fleet. Property. Year. Year.
1900.. 77,738 £746,300
Added.
1901 82,847 748,400 5,109 £2,100
Reduced.
1902 . 88,263 670,700 5,416 77,700
Added.
1903.. 89,851 678,100 1,588 7,400
1904.. 98,293 791,800 8,442 113,700
Reduced.
1905.. 103,758 708,600 5,485 83,200
. Added.
1906 . 112,853 953,486 9,095 244,886
1907 1,060,450 106,964
1908.. 1,264,556 204,106
Reduced.
1909 157,000 1,116 644 147,912
1910 . 159,000 1,063,540 53,104
Added.
1911.. 175,598 1,187,382 16,598 123,842
The fleet actually built was 175,598 at the end of
November, but another 16,200 tons were building,
and had been partly paid for. Take the figures,
then, at 183,000 tons, and compare them with those
for 1906. The co. has in the five years added
70,147 tons, and the book-value of the fleet has only
increased by £233,896. The balance of the cost,
(say) £450,000 at the least, has been paid out of
the undisclosed profit set aside to cover depreciation.
Of course there has been depreciation. But, seeing
that large sums have no doubt been spent on re-
newals and maintenance, this paper isn’t prepared
to admit offhand that the wear and tear has been
anything like £90,000 a year.
Another view of the situation: —
1900. 1910. 1911.
All liabilities .. ..£336,200 £474,672 £474,097
AsS Ships .. .. 746,300 1,063,540 1,187,382
Hulks, stores, etc. 95,215 133,558 148,257
Buildings, etc. .. 132,286 72,331 96,419
Liquid assets .. 216,804 656,347 537,907
In 1900 the co. had liabilities £119,396 in excess
of liquid assets. It has now liquid assets £63,810
in excess of liabilities —an improvement of £183,206
in the 11 years. In 1900, its fleet (77,738 tons)
was valued at £746,300 —say, £lO a ton. It has
now a fleet of 175,598 tons, with 16,200 tons build-
ing knd partly paid for. The tonnage actually added
is thus 97,860 tons. All this has been paid for in
11 years —-hardly, if anything, short of £1,000,000.
And besides paying this bill for ships, and providing
for maintenance, and paying for ships now building,
and providing the steady dividenu, the cash position
has improved, as shown above, to the extent of
£183,206. All this has been done out of revenue;
no new capital whatever has been got in. It is a
remarkable record; and the cautious investor is quite
entitled to doubt whether it will be permitted to
continue.
* * * *
The Westbalian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Cos. (Perth) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1904 .. £1443 32£ p.c. =£1523
Oct., 1904 .. 1363 10 ~ ~ 525 £B3B 8,081
Apl., 1905 .. 1551 30 ~ ~ 1575
Oct., 1905 .. 1611 10 „,, 525 lOB6 9,143
Apl., 1906 .. 1252 10 „„ 525 727 9,870
Oct., 1906.. 714 10 ~ „ 525 lB9 10,059
Apl., 1907 .. 1197 15 „ „ 787 4lO 10,469
Oct 1907 .. 1589 20 „,, 1050 £389 150 10,619
Apl. 1908 .. 1275 10 „„ 525 1000 - 10.369
Oct., 1908 .. 1107 10 ~ ~ 525 582 10,951
Apl., 1909 .. 1075 20 ~ „ 1050 25 10,976
Oct. 1909 .. 1557 10 „ „ 525 1032 12,008
Apl 1910 .. 1831 20 ~ ~ 1050 268 513 12,521
Oct. 1910 .. 1616 20 „ „ 1050 66 500 13,021
Apl., 1911 .. 1892 30 „ ~ 1575 317 13,338
Oct., 1911 .. 1898 20 ~ „ 1155 743 14,081
The co. called up another Is. per share lately,
making the shares 11s. paid; this leaves a liability
of £1 19s. Of the capital (£11,000) and reserves,
£l2 400 is invested in premises; and the certificate
of title is held by the State Treasurer for the se-
curity of present and future clients. The balance of
the funds is in mortgages ( £4970), public securities
( £4050), and other assets. They are not a particu-
larly liquid lot; but that is not of so much conse-
quence as in the case of (say) a fire-insurance office,
since the demands upon a trustee co. are not likely
to be sudden. The great thing is that all trustee
cos. put up security in some form or other for the
due performance of duties, for which they employ
specially qualified men, while the private trustee, be-
sides having, as a rule, no special qualification, puts
up no security whatever. Certainly the trustee co.
doesn’t do the work for nothing; this co. charges
from 1 to 2* p.c. on the capital value of the trust
estate, and from 3to 5 p.c. on the income. Suppose
the estate is worth £30,000, produces 5 p.c. in-
terest, and is in hand 10 years, the charges would
work out as follows: On corpus: 2} p.c. on £SOOO =
£125; li p.c. on £15,000 = £220; 1 p.c. on
£.10,000 = £IOO ; total, £450. On income: 5 p.c.
on £IOOO = £SO; 4 p.c. on £SOO = £2O; total,
£7O. For 10 years = £7OO. Aggregate charge,
£llsO, or £2 11s. p.c. on the total capital value
and income combined, or £3 16s. Bd. on capital
value alone, or 7§ p.c. on the income alone. If
the estate is in hand for less than 10 years, the per-
centage charged works out higher, of course ; if for
more than 10 years, it works out at less. The gross
value of estates in hand on October 31 was
£1,648,706, and the commission earnings for the
half-year were £4423 ; so that the co.’s services cost
the estates and trusts on the average 5J p.c. p.a. of
their capital value. But while very many other
people do a very great deal less for the same’ money,
the shareholders have a Very excellent thing on ; for
a 20 p.c. dividend, with very little risk if care is
exercised, isn’t to be met every day of the week.
* * * *
The Westport Coal Cos., Maoriland's
biggest coal-mining concern :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1904.. l5 p.c. =£42,000
1905.. £59,224 15 „ ~ 42,000 £5000£12,224 102,764
1906.. 61,451 15 ~ ~ 42,000 5000 14,451 117,215
1907.. 50,216 121 .. .» 35,000 5000 10,216 127,431
1908.. 51,244 124 „ ,» 35,000 5000 11,244 138,075
£BO,OOO of reserves capitalised .. 58,675
1909.. 38,598 124 p.c. = 35,000 5000 57,273
1910.. 52,622 104 ~ „ 37,333 5000 10,289 67,562
Contingency Fund transferred 25,000 92,562
£40,000 of Reserves capitalised .. 52,562
Sept.,
1911.. 40,000 10 p.c. = 30,000 3750 6,260 58,812
This co., by far the most successful in the coal trade
of Maoriland, was formed in 1881, and its earlier ■
years were full of tribulation. It wasn’t till almost
the middle ’9o’s that divs. got up to the 6 p.c. mark.
Then things gradually improved, and to-day they are
a good deal better than the 10 p.c. looks, inasmuch
as £120,000 of the capital of £400,000 has been
paid up out of accumulated profits during the past
three years. The 10 p.c. div. is, therefore, really one
of 14 2-7 p.c. on the actually paid capital—assuming
that the capital as it stood in 1908 was all actually
paid. Further, in addition to the reserves shown in
this table, there is a sinking fund which now amounts
to £44,530. This fund is designed to produce an
amount equal to the capital in 28 years from now.
It was calculated that the mine would last that long ;
but probably it will either last longer, or will stand
a greater output, anew bed of coal estimated to
give at least 2,000,000 tons having lately been found.
The table shows various amounts written off. These
are the sums transferred to the sinking fund, and
practically cover, or are intended to cover, the depre-
ciation of the mine, which is a wasting asset. It is
plain, however, from this table that other deprecia-
tion is also written off : —'
Re- Re-
Total. duction. Total, duction.
1904 £351,298 1908.. £335,698 £11,904
1905 ” 354,699 1909.. 317,085 18,613
1906'.’. 350,573 £4,126 1910.. 317,027 58
1907.. 347,602 2,971 1911.. 315,350 1.6//
The comparatively small reduction in the past two
years is due to the very large amounts which have
been spent on capital account. But the co. which
can spend as much money on plant and development
as the Westport has done, and still show a diminish-
ing property account, is doing amazingly well.
The progress can be put in another way: —
Dec., Dec., Dec., Sept.,
1904. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Liquid assets ..£91,221 £176,260 £193,399 £220,655
Liabilities .. 43,978 51,493 54,670 4L412
Surplus £47,243 £124,767 £138,729 £179,243
The liquid assets include the sinking fund invest-
ments ; this fund, by the way, is very properly credi-
ted with its own interest earnings, and is controlled
by trustees, and not by the directors. A glance at the
last little table will show that in rather less than
seven years the co. has saved up an even £132,000,
after paying for plant, etc., and distributing its divi-
dends. It is pretty certain, though, that the com-
parison gives the experience of the past year too
much limelight. The liabilities for 1915 included
.certain reserves for contingencies which diant arise,
hence these reserves have been transferred to ordi-
nary reserves and then capitalised. That, 01 course,
reduces the liabilities and swells the surplus. But it
doesn’t affect the growth of liquid assets, which has
been very prolific indeed.
The co. has built up a fine bunkering connection,
and does a good line with the navy, lhis shows the
output of recent years: —
1904 .. 532,228 tons.
1905 ..
1906 .. 570,000 „
1907 .. 610,750 „
-1908 .. 613,218 tons.
1909 .. 560,809 „
1910 .. 616,531 „
1911 (9 mos.) 470,750 „
But home competition is now keen, especially since
the Maoriland State mines have gone into the busi-
ness, and the co. has been driven to open retail
depots. It has also put up a few coke ovens lately,
and is now trying its Vrentice hand on that side-
line —very profitable in Australia, since it has opened
a way to the use of otherwise valueless slack.
The Australasian Motor Cab Cos.
(Sydney).—This concern has done Australia some
good. It has caused quite a lot of people to swear
off all manner of cos. that may come forward blessed
by London underwriting syndicates. But this co.
was not only born under the evil star of a London
underwriting syndicate —which apparently hadn t the
means to finance a hot-pea stall but it was brought
into the world in the atmosphere of motor-cars; and,
compared with that, the atmosphere of the pony-train-
ing stable is lavender. Anyhow, after passing through
various financial vicissitudes —so nearly related to
swindles that a man with moderate eyesight could
hardly tell the difference—the co. publishes its ac-
counts as from February 11, 1910, to June 30, 1911,
showing a deficit of £12,063 on a paid capital of
£54,531. But inasmuch as “underwriting commis-
sion” and a few other paper assets total £11,354, the
real deficit at that date was £23,417. As practically
all the capital had been subscribed in Australia, and
as the London management had proved such a ghastly
failure, a committee was recently appointed to go
into the co.’s affairs. It called in Albert Borchard
as accountant and \V. B. Larke as motor ex-
pert; and, as a result of their investigations, a
balance-sheet was prepared as at October 31, showing
a deficiency of £22,295. This means that, of the
capital represented by the 20s. pref. shares, 11s. 9d.
is intact, and of the Is. ordinary shares 7d. The
committee thinks that “the co. has sufficient re-
sources at present to enable it to carry on, pro-
vided an end can be put to the extravagance and
ineptitude heretofore existing.” With that in view,
the control is being moved from London to Sydney;
and if the co. can contrive a means to. get what
the cabs earn —there are 47 of them —and if adminis-
tration expenses are reasonable, there ought still to
be excellent profits in the business. But on present
appearances the “ifs” look several furlongs higher
than Kosciusko. #
Allen Taylor and Cos., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney): —
Reserve
(including
To Re- Insurance
Profits. Dividends, serves. Reserve).
May, 1907..
Nov., 1907.. £3579 10 „ „ 3000 £579 2,155
May, 1908.. 3367 10 ~ ~ 3000 367 2,522
Nov., 1908.. 3185 10 „ „ 3000 185 2,707
May, 1909.. 6389 10 „ „ 3750 2639 5,346
Premiums on new shares 1875 7,221
Nov., 1909.. 5029 10p.c.= 3750 1279 8,500
May, 1910.. 5377 10 ~ ~ 3795 1582 10,082
Premiums on new shares 3125 13,207
Nov., 1910.. 6605 10p.c.= 4614 1991 15,198
May, 1911.. 6306 10 „ „ 5000 1306 16,504
Nov., 1911.. 6522 10 ~ „ 5000 1522 18,026
Six months ago authority was obtained to issue an-
other £150,000 of capital, and within the last few
weeks the right was exercised to the extent of
£25,000, the shares being issued at a premium of
2s. 6d. The transaction had not, however, been com-
pleted as at November 30, consequently in the pre-
sent accounts the capital still stands at £IOO,OOO ;
but among the liabilities there is the new item,
“Applications for new shares, deposits, etc.,
£29 821.” The directors say that the new capital
“can be profitably and safely employed in the ex-
tension of the business.” No doubt the management
feels the need of new capital more than most, inas-


ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENCY of
TRUST MANAGEHENT
can only be obtained
by appointing....
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, &c.
Write to or Call at
a. 4 and 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY,
for information.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION OAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney;
McCLEN & CO., Adelaide ; MALLOCH BROS., Perth
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
much as the whole of its insurance and formal re-
serve fund is, as a matter of policy, invested outside
the business. Thus, while most cos. depend mainly
on their undivided profits to give the funds for busi-
ness extensions, this co. has to go to its shareholders’
pockets; and the shareholders are doubtless very
willing that they should, so long as the directors can
offer them a return which, even allowing for the
half-crown bonus, amounts to just upon 9 p.c. Still,
if the reserves are invested in gilt-edged securities
—fixed deposits, public securities, and the like—
this co. is put at a slight disadvantage, so far as the
payment of dividends is concerned, compared with
those cos. which use their reserves in the business.
But the reserves that are invested in gilt-edged
securities are safer; and for that reason a 10 p.c. in
Allen Taylor’s is worth a shade more than a 10 p.c.
in another co. with no gilt-edged securities in the
basket.
“The usual depreciation allowances have been
made in all the assets whether ashore or afloat,” the
directors say ; but there is no telling what amount of
profit has been thus put aside to provide for re-
newals and other contingencies. Wharf properties
at Pyrmont, which stood in at £15,900 five years
ago, have been reduced to £SOOO ; and the whole of
the shrinkage looks like a writing off. They may
be leaseholds, and if they are the fact should be
mentioned; but if they are not, they can scarcely
be worth less now than they were five years ago, and
if so the reduction of this item alone really means
that an internal reserve of £10,900 has been built
up in five years. This and other movements can be
followed hereunder:—
Liabilities.
N0v.,’06. Nov., TO. Mav,’ll. Nov.,’ll.
Capital.. ..£60,000 £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Debts .. .. 9,597 704 9,547 41,378
Assets.
Country mills .. 3,825 11,408 12,035 13,575
Pyrmont whar-
ves, mill, etc.
Ditto (No. 2) - 7 ’ ooo 6 ' ooo s’ooo 5 ’ 000
Vessels .. .. 18,050 24,160 25,066 28,502
Book debts, etc. 25,517 53,977 42,767 50,074
Cash, etc. .. 1,010 3,972 9,197 25,161
Stocks .. .. 9,502 8,658 23,656 28,593
Cash, etc. (which doesn’t include the reserve fund
investments) has sprung up like the Biblical person’s
vegetable marrow ; but this is apparently due to the
manuring of the capital, so to speak. The co. is get-
ting anew steamer built (and it ought to be
ashamed to admit that it is getting it built in Eng-
land), and presumably this will eat up most of the
money. From previous remarks it will be concluded
that the co. is making some large allowances for de-
preciation. Whether it is making them all round is,
however, not ascertainable. Avery great deal de-
pends upon those allowances. The co. is, for in-
stance, spending a lot of money on opening up new
country—in tramways, bush mills, etc.; and those
are assets that waste rapidly. Also, the timber-man
must be reaping a rich harvest from the present
building and construction boom, and the fever can’t
last. This co. hasn’t a very great deal to spare after
paying its 10 p.c.; and unless it is putting a lot up
its sleeve now, the 10 p.c. will be in grave doubt
under normal conditions.
* * * *
It was Scott Fell and Cos. who caused
the N.S.W. coal cos. and the shipping cos. to join
hands. Scott Fell got a Broken Hill contract, which
the Howard Smith people bought at a big price. The
same firm got another, and carried it on ; then the
vend started —and in due time Scott Fell collapsed.
Of course, the object of the interested parties was to
get more profit. Now, it was possible to do that by
the economically legitimate process of preventing
overlapping and waste. But there wasn’t enough
extra profit to be made that way, and the coal vend
and its fellows in the shipping combination adopted
some others. As an example, they jumped up the
price of coal to the Westralian Government by 3s. 7d.
per ton. And, manifestly to throw the Government
off the scent, one of the combination put in a tender
shillings above the vend price. But there was a
worse case than that. When the S. Aus. Government
called for tenders, two of the shipping cos. tendered
jointly at 11s. 9d. per ton all round. Their supply
was guaranteed by another co., which controls a coal
mine. Yet, on the same date, the Howard Smith Cos.,
which had guaranteed the others’ supply at 11s. 9d., ac-
tually tendered at 14s. per ton upwards. “The letter
[covering the tender] could have no other effect than
to make the Government think there was a genuine
competition... and so, by helping the Government to
accept the (lower) tender, to drive a common rival
off the field.” The Court found that there was
“a bank of proof” that the coal vend-cum-shipping
combine was a “gigantic conspiracy,” and fined each
of the 39 defendants £SO0 —with costs, which will
probably reach £35,000.
There will be an appeal, no doubt; stay of pro-
ceedings has been granted. After that, suppose the
finding is upheld (and the evidence seems over-
whelming)—what then? A proposal was made just
before the vend was formed that the principal north-
ern collieries should be turned over to one great co. ;
and it is likely that that scheme will be revived.
Nothing has yet been seriously discussed so far as the
shipping businesses are concerned.
In the past 12 months there has been
more money in Tongkahs and British than in any-
thing else the market has gambled in. British Broken
Hills were brought as low as 14s. 6d. ; they were sold
as high as 71s. There is a very bad smell about this
business. If ex-surveyor Thomas and his charges are
left out altogether, the question will still remain:
Was the alleged new development in the British
known before anything was said about it, and was it
kept “bottled up” for a purpose? If anything of
that kind can be proved, then a nasty suspicion will
remain that, when the cork was taken out, the dis-
covery was over-valued, just as previously it had
been under-valued. The Tongkah business is cleaner.
Certainly the public mostly followed the people who
turned down the option, and there is a vague whis-
per now and then that those adverse reports were all
part of a “bear”; but the chances are that
the adverse opinion was based on insufficient
data, and was sheer bad luck. At the middle
of last year Tongkahs were worth 95.; they
have been more easily sold since at 575. In gold,
apart from a Victorian spasm or two, there has been
a general shrinkage, in the course of which several
Westralian stocks have crumpled right up.
The outlook is gloomy. Outside Broken Hill there
isn’t one big cheerful field. In gold, Meekatharra
(W.A.) has about the best reason to be satisfied with
itself. The position as to copper is worse. For a
year or two a fair output can be seen ahead ; but
there is no field coming along to replace the old ones
—and the average copper mine has a habit of drop-
ping out very suddenly. Broken Hill will no doubt
be easily the most prosperous Australian mining
field for the next three or four years. After that
there will almost certainly be a shrinkage there too
as the accumulated zinc dumps are used up.
The return of four tons of tin oxide for a
week’s run at Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) is slow,
considering that there are 130,000 shares and a
ground landlord. If the annual output amounts to
200 tons of oxide, which present returns seem to in-
dicate, the gross value at £IOO per ton would be
£20,000, which is poor fare for a co. in 130,000
shares. It is a good mine for its size, but it is still
much over-weighted. After crosscutting from Chand-
ler’s shaft, a rise is being put up to try to locate
the pipeclay, so prospecting at this point is becoming
interesting.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance gives this account
of itself for the quarter ended September 30: De-
velopment work totalled 2983£ft., and involved an
expenditure of £BOB7. About 57,200 tons of ore
were broken in the stopes, and 4480 tons in the
course of development. The broken ore lying under-
ground amounts to 148,488 tons, worth 28s. 4d. per
ton, as against 150,095 tons, valued at 295. sd. per
ton, at the beginning of the quarter. No alteration
in the present tonnage is contemplated. The reduc-
tion plant treated 63,287 tons for 20,5280 z. gold and
26090 z. silver; total value, £87,442; average re-
covery, 275. 7d. per ton. Working costs averaged
18s., a reduction of 6d. compared with the pre-
vious quarter. The gold extraction averaged 90.47
p.c. of the contents. The ore reserves have not been
checked since the end of last quarter, but there is no
reason to suspect that any material change has taken
place in the figures then reported. The partly new
and partly re-organised plant has now been paid for,
the proceeds of the September output being sufficient
to wipe out the last of the co.’s debt to its bankers,
to provide sufficient funds for current expenditure,
and to pay for all mine supplies up to the end of the
year. Asa further inducement to shareholders to
keep their peckers up, the announcement is made
that, if things go on as they are moving at present,
a resumption of dividends may be expected early
next year.
* * * *
D. L. Do'olette unburdened himself in
Perth the other day, regarding what shareholders
may reasonably expect from the Bullfinch. On com-
pletion of the proposed treatment plant, it is in-
tended to treat a monthly 6000 tons of recoverable
grade of between 40s. and 50s. per ton, and to make
an effort to keep the total cost of production down
to £1 per ton. As regards recent mine development,
he said that, apart from the rich shoot, several lenses
of ore, of an aggregate length of 516 ft., and assaying
435. per ton for an average width of 164 ft., had been
opened up at the 100 ft. level; but in the absence of
sufficient development, he would not give any esti-
mate of the actual or probable ore reserves in the
mine. He, however, believed that the ore contents
of the property above 100 ft. were sufficient to keep a
mill of the capacity mentioned in full operation for
at least 18 months.' Nothing was said as to how the
mine looked below 100 ft.
* * * *
Bullfinch South and West have decided
to form themselves into anew co., with a nominal
capital of £50.000, in 100,000 10s. shares, taking
one share for every two now held. All the cash and
energy of the amalgamated concern is to be devoted
to proving whether the King of the Hills, at Leonora,
is a mine or not; everything else, including the
Chunderloo option held by the Bullfinch South, is to
be discarded.
Greenfinch (W.A.) got into a reckless
mood the other day, and ordered a five-head mill and
accessories. It is proposed to treat 750 tons of £3
ore per month. This is very little compared with
what Pettigrew and others originally claimed the
show would maintain ; yet, even at this reduced rate,
the mine will soon be emptied.
Lancefield (W.A.) is still weighted down
with misfortune. A revenue of no less than £295,714
was? derived from ore treatment during the two years
ended June last; yet. owing to refractory ore, ex-
pensive treatment, and high working costs generally,
the accounts for that period showed a balance on the
wrong side of over £IO,OOO. The co. is now in debt
to the tune of £31,000, £18;667 of which is owing
to the bank, and the balance to the London, Aus-
tralian and General Exploration Cos. and to sundry
other creditors. Asa sort of last resource, experi-
ments are being made with anew process, which it is
thought may pull the co. out of the mire. Meantime
its future hangs by a very slender thread.
* * * *
Burbanks Main Lode (W.A.) took
£46,379 out of the ground during the year ended
June last, and, after including what was brought for-
ward and deducting a 71 p.c. dividend, it wound up
with a credit balance of £12,027. Another div. of
74 p.c. has since been paid, leaving £9,176 to carry
forward. Ore reserves are estimated at 27,000 tons,
which is a bit better than the previous year’s figures.
Next year’s tonnage is expected to be bigger
Following on the heels of a development
at 400 ft., comes the news that the Marvel Loch Cos.
(W.A.) has placed an order for a 10-head mill. The
latter is expected to reach the mine in three months,
and for the benefit of stiff and stony shareholders, the
information is added that sufficient cash is in hand
to pay for it.
Hopes are still entertained in official
circles that the Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) will
ultimately become a payable mine. Hitherto the
presence of antimony and arsenic in the ore has
knocked out all attempts made to work the show at
anything but a ruinous loss* but it is now alleged
that a process has been discovered whch gives a re-
covery of over 90 p.c. of the gold contents. The
basis of the discovery is said to be partial prelimin-
ary roasting at a low temperature. With a feeling
that the news seems almost too good to be true, the
co. has taken steps to check the results already ob-
tained, and the directors promise to give shareholders
the strength of things as soon as possible.
Westralia Waiihi (W.A.) has taken a
fancy to the Surprise lease at Norseman, and pro-
poses to work it under option. Locally the show is
spoken highly of, as usual, and a number of para-
graphs beginning with the remark that “several good
crushings have been won to date,” and ending with
the assertion that the “prospects of the property are
considered excellent,” have got into print. Unfortu-
nately, similar things were said about another alleged
mine which the co. was induced to acquire in the
same district; and in view of that bitter experience,
it is astonishing that the co. should have pluck
enough to have anyhing to do with anything else at
Norseman.
* * * *
North Miararoa (W.A.) has decided to
give it up and go into voluntary liquidation. This
ought to have been done long, long ago, but the co.
suffered from the usual delusion regarding the value
of its property.
* * * *
Foiled in its attempt to get a large parcel
of ore put through the Government mill, Meekatharra,
at a reduced figure, the Commodore Cos. (W.A.) is
now thinking of erecting a small battery of its own.
There are a few thousand tons of payable ore, and
the management thinks that sufficient cash could be
derived from the treatment of this stuff to put the
co. bevond the want of funds for some time to come.
It now has about £IOOO in hand, but if the purchase
of a mill is decided on, another 6d. per share, at
least, will have to be called up. #
Star Exploration held its first annual
meeting in London on December 4 ; but so far Aus-
tralian shareholders have not heard what happened.
This co. was formed about 12 months ago to acquire
from Hannan’s Star a half-share in a working option
at Meekatharra (since abandoned), a quarter-interest
in the Mountain Queen at Southern Cross, and
100,000 tons of tailings with a tailings re-treatment
plant at Kalgoorlie. It started with £13,000 in
hand.
Bendigo isn’t easily cast down. When its
divs. are ahead of its calls, it puffs out its bosom
and asks the world to take note of the richness of
the field. When it is the other way about and calls
are ahead of dividends, it asks the world to note the
great faith of the field in its own resources. This
.year it has been making calls very solidly, having got
various bits of encouragement, so this is one of the
occasions when the world is asked to admire its
faith. Here are the figures for a few years past:—
Gold, Calls. Dividends,
oz. £ £
1905 . . 218,683 175,281 230,009
1906 . . 223,733 231,262 246,254
1907 . . 196,944 208.779 122,017
1908 . . 193,253 135',923 126,268
1909 . . 213,681 110,762 159,685
1910 . . 185,394 119,057 96,289
1911 .. 175,684 161,356 123,515
In spite of the shrinkage in the gold output, the re-
cord is a better one than the previous year’s ; and the
outlook for 1912 is very fair. In fact, there is more
good gold stone proved now and awaiting treatment
than there has been for three or four years past.
Hobson’s, the low-grade show near Arm-
strong’s (Vic.), has closed down, a drastic testing
of the lode matter having failed to reveal any bur-
densome quantity of gold. There are little runs of
good stuff here and there, from which, apparently,
the preliminary trial crusliings were obtained, but
the bulk of the ore is worthless. The Earle crusher,
from which great things were hoped locally, is,
therefore, temporarily out of a billet, through no
fault of its own. It is generally conceded that the
crusher, which is a large type of Chilian mill, did
its work well, but no self-respecting mill can be
expected to keep on disintegrating barren rock for
ever. Hobson’s is apparently another instance of
how easy it is for confiding people who know no-
thing of mining to fall with a resounding splash
into the soup.
* * * *
Here are some figures for Charters Tow-
ers to stare at. Williams’ Fancy, of Berringa
(Vic.), crushed 12,989 tons in the past halt-year—
dragged mostly from the ends of long crosscuts at
depths running down to 700 ft. (No. 6 level). The
yield averaged 2dwt. 201 gr.—a—a shade over 11s. lid.
per ton. And yet the co. came out with a profit, its
expenses being kept down to this: Mine, 11s. Id.;
contingent, ljd. ; management, 4d. The profit was
£270 ; and that amount has been written off de-
velopment account, which is now worked down to
£B7. The co. still has £535 in hand, which doesn’t
look much, but is something in case the faces under-
ground should get a little worse; and at present there
isn’t much promise that they will get any better.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers,
has this year given its shareholders no less than
£45,000; and those who were beguiled last year
into buying at 365., will need it all. The profit made
in the last six months was £24,131, while the divi-
dends paid were £22,458. At the close the co. had
a credit of £16,819, including a fixed deposit of
£BOOO. The ore reserves have been severely drawn
upon, and there is a vigorous struggle'to fatten them
a little. The directors are very hopeful of develop-
ing a payable run westward of the dyke below No. 4
level. Hitherto the shoot in this section has not ex-
ceeded 30ft. in length. It is also intended to drive
in from Mills’ United boundary on a reef of mineral-
ised stone in the deepest levels. Sinking of the
underlay shaft is being continued, in order to keep
in touch with eastern and western developments.
The Brilliant reef is also being developed by sinking
a winze and by driving in such a direction that it
practically constitutes a crosscut for the Brilliant
formation, which should be struck in another 100 ft.
or so. But changes hereabouts occur so rapidly that
there is no certainty about any single one of these
hoped-for developments.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, has de-
clared a sixpenny dividend for January. There are
two reasons for the slump in shares, the most im-
portant being that the crushing of 608 tons for
£1922 is lower than usual. Then, the narrow vein,
depleted to the extent of 13,000 or 14,000 tons, must
be getting used up in the two main levels, for the
East Mexican has not yet been able to locate payable
stone in the hanging-wall branch reef, which has
proved so remunerative to Mills’ United and the
New Brilliant Freehold. The latter has also fol-
lowed a cross reef for a considerable distance in a
northerly direction, and hopes, by continuing the
drive, to come in touch with a deep level in the
Brilliant. The good prospects showing 140 ft. from
the crosscut in the Brilliant Deeps are an incentive
to the co. to keep on trying. The Deeps, for instance,
had to persevere for nearly 20 years before it struck
the recent patch. If No. 5 level strikes payable
stone, and a rise is put up to No. 4, there will be
a basis upon which to estimate tonnage of payable
stone.
* * * *
During November the Cloncurry district
(Q.) shipped 253 tons of high-grade ore, locally
reckoned to average 30 p.c., to southern smelters and
ore-buyers for foreign firms. St. Mungo sent 94 tons,
Malbon Freehold 55 tons, and a number of small
mines made up the balance. There isn’t another
field in Australia that could equal this performance.
* * * *
Mount Cuthbert (Q.),for its last re-
corded six months, hauled 1056 tons of 8 p.c. ore,
and increased the reserves to 141,400 tons, estimated
to contain 12,632 tons of copper and £15,120 gold.
The expenses for the half-year mopped up £3155.
A railway has been surveyed to the Dugald River,
which is 28 miles from the mine. Most of the ore
developed has been on the eastern wall of the lode;
the western side has proved disappointing. The fact
that 1056 tons of 8 p.c. ore were raised from 843 ft.
of driving indicates only a moderate-sized ore body.
* * * *
One of the few cueerful Australian min-
ing developments of the year has been the opening up
of thick coal-seams in Central Queensland. Blair Athol
has a 60ft. seam, which it got at about 70ft. from the
surface; within the last month, by sinking a bit
further through sandstone and conglomerate, the
North Athol has got the same fine seam nearly three
miles away.
* * * *
Mount Lyell (Tas.) has been gaining
strength in the thoughtful investor’s eyes. Too much
fuss has been made over the wages difficulty; it is
ridiculous to say that a rise of Is. per day to 1400
men would prevent the payment of reasonable divi-
dends. An extra 6d. all round means £35 per day,
£IOSO per month, or £12,600 per annum —say, 355.
at the most on each ton of blister copper, the value
of which has risen £3 during the last few weeks.
And apart from that rise, North Mount Lyell has for
years past been increasing its reserves of 6 p.c.
copper ore, so there is no visible reason why the
output of blister copper should not be increased.
* * * *
At New Plymouth (M.L.), before a large
meeting of Taranaki Petroleum Cos. shareholders,
Chairman of Directors Chris Carter —recently
returned from Fogtown—gave particulars of
the sale of the co.’s rights to the British Empire
Oilfields Cos. The price paid by the latter co. was
£105,000, and 4d. per gallon for oil in stock; the
old co. also takes the Government bonus. The B.E.
Oilfields Cos. has a capital of £400,000, of which
£250,000 is working capital. Mr. Carter introduced
H. J. Brown, chairman of the British Oil Trust, who
stated that active measures would be taken at once
to prove the field. The prospectus of the new co.
will be issued simultaneously in London and Maori-
land straight away.
“Will the undertaking’ pav ?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories or
warehouses, very often solves the problem. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and Co., can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
ii g in Australia, or in course of erection, and will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the largest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors
can be procured from the same firm.*
* * * *
+ CF + MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. — Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+GF+ Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “Wilfley.” It is continuous, and
consists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged
in a tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The
drum is covered with a filter cloth supported on
grooves on the drum, which are connected by means
of holes to the interior to allow the liquid to be
withdrawn. Through the trunnions at the ends of
the drum the vacuum pipe passes to the interior.
This pipe connects with the interior of the drum,
through which the liquid and air are withdrawn by
means of a vacuum pump. The filtered slime is re-
moved by a simple apparatus placed at or below the
level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly the
cake is removed, the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately rd-immersed in the pulp
ready to receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the
sucking in of air, and consequent loss of vacuum
between the time the cake is removed and a fresh
one is forming. The residual liquid in the slime
cake is removed by distributing water over the sur-
face of the semi-dried cake. Owing to the fact that
the filter is circular in form, it will be seen that it
is continuous in operation, and has no complication
of valves to get out of order; furthermore, work is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manu-
facturing rights of this filter.* [2
* * * »
Extract from The Journal. of Commerce, Liver-
pool (29/ll’10) : “Colonial Mutual. —This office is
one of the best, and has the advantage of capable
and progressive management.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE withstands erosion better
than metal pipe. It is well suited for hydraulic min-
ing and dredging—the heaviest material brought up
by the dredges can be carried without any injury
to the pipe. Particulars from The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Booth’s Wharf, Balmain.*
The tool you will find most useful in your shop is
the Carr Three Way Tool Holder, combining easy
and rapid adjustment with strength, durability and
great range of efficiency. Three tools in one. Write
to BOHLER BROS, and CO., Ltd., 1 Angel Place,
Pitt Street, Sydney; 183 Queen Street, Melbourne.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
* » * *
Simpitrol Air Gas. —The Light to Swear by—not
at; 984 per cent. Air and 14 per cent. Petrol make
up the Most Brilliant and Economical Light that has
ever yet been offered to the public. The Plant can
be easily installed and the mechanism thoroughlv
understood in a very short space of time. Many in
use in the Commonwealth of Australia, New Guinea,
Fiji, and Thursday Island. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia) Limited,
Liverpool Buildings, 153 William Street, Melbourne.
Agents for New South Wales: James Hardie and Co.,
Circulay Quay, Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.* ’2
For driving bands, conveyor and elevator belting
of all kinds, Hopkins Bros, and Odium Prop., Ltd.,
Leicester Street, Carlton, Melbourne. Leading
machine belting manufacturers. With largest stocks
and factory in the Commonwealth. Invite enquiries.
Leather belting (Australian and English) all sizes
stocked. Genuine British Balata and Taylors’
Patent Faced Camel Hair Belting, all widths up to
18in. Conveyor belting a specialty for ore, sand,
metal, coal. Write for price-lists and discounts.
Agents wanted.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *■
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil,
ease of starting, no complicated arrangement of
valves, and autc matic lubrication, and these are testi-
fied to by Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 25
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* [1
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * •
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourk?
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


Ciidiforcwitu***
raw
feilw®
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PI-lOM
fh
Renowned
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London,E.C.
1 can’t stand bad tea myself,
and I’m not such a fool as to
risk my living by giving bad
tea to my boarders. 1 give them
everything good —and 1 reckon 1
more than do my duty by them in
the matter of tea. I use nothing
but the R o b u r No. 2 Grade, and
I’ve been using it for years, and it
pleases me even better now than
when 1 first began to use it —it
has a delightfully mild flavor,
and makes a lovely cup of tea
if you brew it properly. I’m
satisfied that Robur is the
wholesomest, the nicest, and the
cheapest tea for a boarding-house
keeper, or anybody else, to use.
The Boarding-House Keeper.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875. 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 23, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
Governor Chelmsford’s garden party to
members of the Teachers’ Conference was a
pleasant, informal affair. His Ex. wore the
sac suit of ordinary flesh, with a boater hat,
and Lady C. got round amongst the bidden in
the delicate drapery of an iris orchid. Pri-
vate Sec. Verney and the new Aide de Moleyns
(a cheery Irishman when he isn’t roped in
to inspect hemstitch exhibitions) scattered
a largesse of polite remarks on the necks of
the multitude. Parliament House supplied a
few of its more able-bodied warriors, those
who still wear their arms and legs out of
splints—the McGowen duet, the fine, up-
standing Trefle pair, and the Holman mates.
On a perfect summer day—all blue and
green and gold, with a sapphire sea lapping
Sydney’s shores —the pedagogues nibbled the
vice-regal biscuit, and there was peace in the
land.
The wife and daughter of Northern Terri-
tory Judge Mitchell are taking the summer
air at Katoomba —on ice, instead of swal-
lowing it devilled, up Port Darwin way.
What a tragedy it is, in a business man-
ner of speaking, to be hliead of one’s time!
The thought occurred to me the other Sun-
day, whilst lunching at “La Corniche.” Six
or seven years ago, Mr. Brock, alive
to the fact that the era of the motor was at
hand, started laying out this estate for the
identical uses to which it is now being put.
He hadn’t sufficient funds to carry the scheme
right out, and he was forced to let the place
go. Now, every Sunday, and most week
days, its front drive is studded with the cars
of the affluent; golf rages briskly on the
links below ; the beach is a regular haunt of
surf-bathers; and from the big dining-room,
looking over the ocean, comes the contented
hum of persons crowding themselves with
food. It is sad that the profits of this ven-
ture should go, not to the man who conceived
it, but to a soulless company.
The city housekeeping cat, who can’t get
“help” for any money that her fancy can
soar to, thinks jealous thoughts of the
country housekeeping mouse, who, she’s
sure, must be able to get any number of
way-back wenches to do her odd jobs. But
a run among the cows and the corn dis-
covers the country housekeeping mouse
coveting the chances of the city housekeep-
ing cat, who, she’s just as sure, must be
able to get heaps of help, seeing that almost
every wench has gone to Sydney. A quar-
tette just back from a motoring gadfly to
the south and west tell of their hotel ex-
periences. Practically everywhere “the
missus” apologised for the dilatory ham-
and-eggs with the remark that half her
“help” had left and _gone to Sydney. The
one missus who was cheerful over-night
broke the news before breakfast that both
her waitresses had been suddenly called
away. At Moruya, where from force of
habit the population squeezes the atmos-
phere as it talks to you, a sad-faced woman
stood at the door of the hotel to which the
motor-guide pointed, and shooed the gad-
flies away—she was run right out of
“help,” she said.
And yet it’s a longer way between back-
country pubs than it used to be before the
apostle of Cold Tea tore out nearly 200
beer pumps. Some of the closed hotels still
hang out the old sign, and only break the
truth gently to the traveller when he calls
for something to wash out the dust after
dumping his luggage in the “best room.”
But things may be worse even than that.
Somewhere between Cooma and Goulburn
there are five miles of dry sand and 50
miles of drier track. Says the guide book:
“Michelago: Hotel.” “Ah, lunch at Michel-
ago,” says the gadfly, and relies on the sign
to tell him when he’s come to Michelago.
Long after he should have had that lunch
he meets another traveller. “How far to
Michelago?” “Oh, you passed Michelago 10
miles back.” If the apostle of Cold Tea
will pull out beer pumps and pull down
hotel signboards, he ought anyhow to pro-
vide every de-licensed little township with
another label. How can anybody be ex-
pected to know that the three sprawling
cottages, 11 goats and 15,963 rabbits con-
stitute the hamlet . of Bunnyvale if M.
O’Grady, aforetime licensed to retail spiritu-
ous and fermented liquors, has broken up
the now-useless signboard of the Bunnyvale
Hotel and used it for firewood?
The backwash of the opera co. seethes
with episodes in nine languages. Jeanne
Korolewicz-Wayda tosses her fair head at
the suggestion of a return. “In opera—no.
To see Australia some day—perhaps, yes.
Why?” About this point Mr. Kaufmann
hurriedly tears the conversation into
smoother water. He says: “In Buenos
Ayres, where Mrs. Wayda goes later on at
a fee of £lOOO a month, there is the largest
opera house, I think, in the world. From
the back of the amphitheatre the actors
look like marionettes. Argentina, though
one thinks of it as wool and cattle, gets
this tremendous impetus in music because it
is peopled with the Latin races.”
Mrs. Wayda, whose' triumphant song-
burst as Floria Tosca has been the cause of
riotous acclamation in this city, feels a little
sore under her ivory skin at the milk-and-
water accounts of her trills that trickled
through the daily press. “I come no more,
I think.” Another olive leaf flutters on the
rim of the Wayda horizon. “Six months is
too long for a young artist to remain away
from Europe.” Mrs. Wayda’s eight years
in the public eye have left her as soft and
lovable as a kitten before it grows its claws.
Until the handsome Pole sharpens up a small
talon or two in her velvet paws, she’s liable
to find the world a mighty tough problem.
Chamberlain Dick Nevill was drinking in
the last trills of “La Tosca” the other day.
He hopped off the vice-regal perch for. a
Christmas jaunt to this town, lunched with
Melba at the Astor, met Wayda with en-
thusiasm. and eased off a few remarks re
the G.-G. Denman festivities, which are
only just retiring into the brown holland
covers of comparatively private life for five
minutes’ breathing space.
Melba, for some time at the helm of the
recent Hugh Ward launch party, treated
the Middle Harbor oyster with great con-
sideration, and steered for the deep water
channels. The average amateur helms-
woman is inclined to chip pieces off the
scenery in Sydney’s blue water front, but
Melba took no chances with her marine
certificate. Later on, the Lady of the Voice
handed out the rations with a playful slap
at the pig. “Ham, ham, ham everywhere,
and not a bit for poor Mr. Bert Levy to
eat! Here’s Mr. Levy asked to lunch, and
we offer him ham.” At which the re-
turned genius chuckled till he almost forgot
the boil on his neck for a second or two.
Ciccolini, who breathed his emotion as
Mario Cavaradossi into the best bonnet of
Tosca-Wayda at the farewell matinee, was
a dashing-looking lover. Clad in a brown
velvet coat, ruffles, riding breeches and long
boots, he mixed love and oil paints with
much success in the first act. An artist in
riding boots is one of the mild excrescences
of opera. They troubled the youthful Cicco-
lini less than the rough corners of the Eng-
lish language. “I will two natural eggs; I
go in the glass,” said the young and beauti-
ful tenor at lunch the other day.
The opera season broke up in a brilliant
finale on Friday night. Gorgeously staged,
the second act of “Aida” led the way, with
Voluntas-Ranzenberg as Amneris, the
Egyptian lady, laid out in blue and gold,
and Zeni-Radames, with half a sunrise—
the prickly half that peers over the rim of
the blue Pacific about 5 a.m. —in great gold
spikes behind his neck. The color scheme
in the Temple of Vulcan at Memphis stands
out as one of the finest stage pictures
J.C.W. Ltd. has laid at the feet of the
gods. Deputy Town Clerk Layton, who sat
in the d.c., the other night, is alleged to
suffer pangs of envy in his horticultural
feelings, because he can’t grow black roses
with red stripes climbing up their stalks, to
match the brilliant growth of slaves, minions,
etc., that bloomed in the Temple of Vul-
can. Wayda-Aida incited a riot of applause
that nearly hurled the gallery into Kingdom
Come over the front rail.
One patch of opera enthusiasts hung half
its individual bodies over this rail, and all
its arms. Probably its legs were tied down
to 'the seats, or Parliamentary exits might
have blotted out the landscape during the
farewell shrieks to Wayda, Melba, Scandiani,
Zeni, Angelini, etc. Angelini looked as if
Delilah had snipped off his forelock, till pub-
lic enthusiasm hung a laurel wreath round
his neck. Then the long streak of hair sat
up suddenly, and Angelini was himself.
“Othello” followed “Aida,” with a scimi-
tar and death rattle in the smothering scene.
But the slice of “Faust,” with Melba,
McCormack and Burke in the great final
trio —Marguerite-Melba having scrambled
up out of her straw manger—was the three
million candle-power song blaze of the even-
ing. The angelic choir then hauled Mar-
guerite, with a hard tug where the clouds
were steep, up to the Celestial Gates.
Mephisto-Burke met her when she returned
to earth, and handed over a ton or two of
flowers from the audience. Hugh Ward
hurled a few pleased remarks across the
footlights, for the opera has made the
J.C.W. cash box feel very indigestible in-
side. Mrs. Grace Miller Ward was in the
manager’s box. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Allen
were in their usual stalls. Mrs. Ernest
Raleigh in the d.c. was in her accustomed
patch. Major and Mrs. “Billy” Watson
(Mrs. “Billy” very well turned out in
black), organist Arthur Mason (who
haunted the opera till its last breath flick-
ered out), and a large assemblage of the
Best Dressed were present at the dying-
squeaks of the Angelini-Sacerdote fiddlers.
Only two people in this hamlet, Nellie
Stewart and Hugh Mclntosh, each with an
enormous following, could have organised
and carried out such a gold-leaf event as the
Stadium carnival for the Sydney Hospital
centenary fund. During six weeks of solid
graft, these two conspirators, with “Snowy”
Baker as right-hand man, pushed and
pulled into the public eye an original idea.
Behind Nellie Stewart was a hard-working
phalanx of petticoats. They came along
with a rush at the last—Mrs. Jim McGowen,
Mrs. A. Holman, Mrs. G. L. Goodman, Mrs.
“Snowy” Baker (a lady of endless re-
sources), Mrs. H. D. Morton, not forgetting
the Chinese damsels in their floral kimonos
and flower-decked stalls.
Mrs. Hugh Mclntosh was close beside
Nellie Stewart through weeks of heroic en-
deavor, which came to a head in a red-hot
wind, with a trail of floral cars. Nellie
Stewart’s decorative waggon snatched first
prize, while a Chinese effort scooped up the
second reward.
The Very Good and Narrow did their worst
—and failed. They were beaten back to
their illuminated texts by the Philistine hosts
of Public Opinion. In spite of their Peck-
sniff or Uriah Heep attitude —there is a
kind of Very Good Person who combines the
characteristics of these two widely different
saints, and who should be called either Peck-
heep or Heepsniff—despite, as I already
said, their Peckheepsniffian attitude, the show
filled the Stadium to the last stitch of can-
vas, and crowded the hospital cash box till
it burst. In fact, all inside accommodation
was occupied, and money was hanging on to
the steps. And, despite the large, uplifted
paw of Chadband, the Tommy Burns v.
Langford scrap occurred, and other events as
well.
A sprinkling of Society top-dressed the
edge of the “Snowy” Baker Venus competi-
tion, at the Stadium carnival. Merivales,
Wills-Allens, Holdships, Simpsons and other
members of the old nobility were seen in the
offing of Venus, as she stamped up to get the
apple of discord prize. Mrs. Prank Mac-
donald, by the way, turned rather a bored eye
on the sparring, before Venus got into action.
A very weary Nellie Stewart had to with-
draw from the judging, which occurred about
midnight. At that hour the combatants —I
mean the competitors—walked the ring.
Some were fat and some were lean. The
judges worked out results in points—so
many points for legs, arms, face, figure.
These were afterwards totalled up, and Miss
Millie Ma'hy (I think that’s her way of spell-
ing her name) won by a neck. Squire of dames,
the optimistic “Snowy,” gently led forth
each Venus —the fat, the lean, the “Cana-
dian”-covered and 'the partly uncovered.
Mrs. Nellie Drane was a close second. The
prize is an antique bronze by Drouot, repre-
senting Fortuna on the revolving wheel.
Venus Victrix will get possession at a gather-
ing arranged for that purpose.
A few drops of indignant petrol are here
injected by “Motor Man,” who hurls a loud
“toot-toot” at the usual inhabitants of Cen-
tennial Park
Excepting on special occasions this beautiful
national lung is almost deserted.
Pause here for a moment to think of the
horrors of a deserted lung:—
I motored around it on a delightful morning last
week, and met one hearse and two dirty dogs. The
dogs were probably looking for King Edward’s Home,
which is somewhere in the Moore Park acreage. I
want to know why the authorities (blessed word)
don’t do something to make this park a great public
resort. Just imagine a decorative tea-house, a band
playing every day, and all the attractions with which
a Continental municipality would trim up a glorious
But the Religious Editor reckons its too
wet for the “Motor Man” to play cricket on
the Centennial Park pitch any more to-day.
The effect of London and Paris upon an
Australian girl of IS: —
The Bond-street shops are simply maddening
[several times underlined]. They are lovely. Prices
the same as in Sydney, except gloves and shoes,
which are about half. My coming-out gloves, 15s.
6d. in Sydney, are 7s. 6d. here, and in some shops
ss. 6d. The dwellers’ shops are wonderful [more
heavy underlines]. There is one in the Strand, where
the whole window is arranged with the most gor-
geous plush, and nothing but pearls and diamonds
on it. The next window is dark peacock-blue plusn,
with all black pearls and emeralds. The lights also
have shades on them to match the plush. One won-
ders how it’s nossible for there to be so much money
in this small world. Paris shops are glorious [more
underlining]. But the prices !. .. Saw Sarah Bern-
hardt in the last act of “Camille” at London Colos-
seum. She is a marvel [underlines again]. As soon
as the curtain went up I started to cry. She made
me feel she was going to die long before she started
to speak even. She is wonderfully pathetic _ and
beautiful; 67 years old, and acts like a young girl of
20.
The rest is a wild whirl of descriptions of
hats, gloves, chiffons, actresses and other
things which constitute the glory of the
world to young 18, and they are all under-
lined.
Artist Bert Levy, now doing, magic red
strokes at the Tivoli, has returned to his
native land with all his reminiscences thick
upon him. An Australian Zangwill—only
more so —-he writes and sketches and talks
the Ghetto, and dresses up tender-hearted
jokes in best Yiddish. Levy upon Cohen is
fun without malice. “Talking of Cohen,”
said the brilliant Victorian, “reminds me of
Moses. In New York —yes, that’s my home
now—a reporter went to interview a leading
Jew, who, being a busy man, kept the press-
man on the doormat for a few minutes.
‘Here,’ said the reporter, who was a very
important reporter, to Simeon, the clerk:
‘When’s S going to see me? I’m not
accustomed to be kept waiting by a Jew.
My forefathers were present at the signing of
the Declaration of Independence.’ The clerk
laid this Gentile gem at the feet of his mas-
ter, who gave the newspaper man his earliest
attention. ‘Hullo!’ said the latter, “I hear
your people were present when the Declara-
tion of Independence was signed. Well, sir,
my ancestors were present when Moses
handed out the Ten Commandments. So you
needn’t wait any longer. Good morning.’ ”
When Bert Levy smites the small disc on
the Tivoli stage, with sure, swift strokes,
magnified on the screen, he turns a snub-
nosed catamaran into a Gibson girl; smashes
up the beauty, and builds a fierce Woman’s
Righter; kills her (before she has time to
pay her dog-tax) and introduces ’Arriet with
windmill millinery and a smile. And he does
it all like chain lightning flashing up and
down a small patch of midnight.
The returned Lew stamps with both feet on
the “artistic temperament.” He quotes Har-
rison Fisher, Dana Gibson and a score of
names notable in American art and litera-
ture. “These men haven’t got the so-called
artistic temperament. They’re too busy to
go and find it. If a friend drops in to see
Gibson, he’s probably hard at work, with
half his brushes in his mouth. When he
slackens off, he’ll set his chafing dish going,
make an omelette, and be as jolly as a bank
clerk on a holiday. By the way, getting
back to the Ghetto, it used to be my lot to
illustrate Hebrew jokes for The Bulletin —
my best friend in the days of my early strug-
gles—and some of my co-religionists took this
very much to heart. A Jew in Melbourne,
who used to get infuriated over these draw-
ings, rushed at me in the street one day
with a Bulletin in his hand. ‘See here,
you Levy, at last you get what you deserve.
Someone has put you in for a Jew —now,
see, here’s your face.’ I had thought of an
idea to soften the wrath of my friends, and
sketched myself, and the old man, who could
neither read nor write, showed it everywhere
as a judgment on me.”
The tall and willowy organist, Lilian
Frost, who goes to Bull’s Island in the
Orontes on January 24, raised a hurricane
of good wishes, followed by a big benefit
concert in the Town Hall. She was also
slapned in the face with a purse of sover-
eigns by the Pitt-street church choir —as a
mark of personal esteem.
Henry Bracy’s illness was a source of
nerve-wrecking worry to his best friends for
a day or two. The usually sprightly Bracy
refused to be wafted away to a private hos-
pital, and tried to regard himself as a per-
fectly well person, who was taking a few
days off the chain by mere accident —on
strike or having a birthday, or something
like that. As I sum up this Christmas
greeting, H.B. is steadily tramping back
along the road to Recovery.
May the New Year flap its wings and crow
over your enemies, my dear Arini.
VANDORIAIN.
Again—this time at Albert Park, Mel-
bourne —a man is accused of fatally shoot-
ing his sister-in-law. Whatever the verdict
in this case may be, it is positive that, under
certain circumstances, a sister-in-law is
what life assurance people call a hazardous
risk. When she comes to grief, there are
almost invariably three circumstances in
combination: (1) the brother-in-law is
much older than the deceased; (2) he
married the elder sister; (3) he shot the
younger one. If there is any case on record
in which the defendant married the younger
sister and afterwards slew the elder, this
writer fails to recall it.


m
m
%:»
;-J
X
|pw
|J| ft^
?il® : fw ; ,
kCI; :X Jfl\:
m
m
■gi-f.
Sif! 1}
an
XX'
'#l
«h*23?2 <&£*> ■
.os,
liiffpjs
wi -r?
skmi
v«-;.
&
83P«aar,''*.vv
*4
V 3
;«y3
VI
&'
■:
X
n
mi I
KVM
*
>•*
-■
miM
5®
•>\f
sr»;
f|* t»i
£&&s&£
*
CM £jj
KS3 »
XX
&5
Igg
s^ip^X»;'
"I - -
• ■-••' .•S-‘./^.v-*v.<».^ .-yfy;:
*.'»•• ..->•-• •• •• -- ; •
V *••-•' ’ ■*• •'"’? t b -
&-:s3&£R!f>
"* Jpft ■»»•
68SII
H«
«sss ?'1
:X
P=>"^-
::sc>*
*5 </ siw«
•neSL
"0
111
:. 5
ggpgi>
•'f •(?&»#• i
O
fij
2w
)3&
>r»
3&
S3®!
I
•&
10
m
V
«§?•
:«:i!
68 hi
•■J,- f. : !
2&!K£S
■
-•?
'•
Safegeiaia “M
'oOSI
, :
X ;
;
«Wr-#Krh
m
si
■
Nr« s '«?
ijS>
ISi
Wsv
1
sg
assas
fy, -5:-^
A
i
**«
■
SF4
"X
.s-^-.y
1
saw
»-
iSSS;
m
afiSWNs
1
» : :
•: *• V
.c?;^i.'
mmmm
m®m
-
COBRA, 15he Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, 15he Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With the cat
And dog for crew,
’Neath the tree-fern’s
Nodding frond
Floats upon
The Polish Pond.
Chunder thinks
It’s very fine
Just to fish with
Rod and line
While the cat
Keeps a look out
For a nice, big,
Juicy trout.


Special Value in ...
TUNIC SHIRTS
6/6 each, or 3 for 18/-
We have made a Special Purchase of Smart Fashionable
English Tunic Shirts, in soft summer-weight zephyrs ;
faultless in cut, colorings, and style ; in smart, stylish
designs.
PRICE 6/6, or 3 for 18/-
FARMER’S BONUS SALE
Begins on TUESDAY, JANUARY 2nd.
10 PER CENT. BONUS OFF EVERYTHING.
MANY LINES RIGOROUSLY REDUCED.
■ Write for Sale Catalogue. “““““
n
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market and
George Streets,
SYDNEY.
fh
f
DUNLOP
Golf *
Balls
t. Have no equal
for...
Quality,
I Balance
or Wear.
I^DUNLOP
• 11-i'Ur
HOSE a us! le
Lasts for years, and
does not kink or burst.
STOCKED ALL LEADING STORES
SPECIFY “ DUNLOP" MAKE, AND
ACCEPT NO CHEAP SUBSTITUTE.
itfNLOPJUIBBER CO.. All Suaw t-W.Z
ƒh
USE
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
It pays—their strength and quality
ensures a big mileage, and every
satisfaction
Obtainable all Garages, but ;
see you get “DUNLOPS." ,
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. Alt State* »nd N.Z.
DU
•MINING
& ENGINEERING
GOODS
for Quality,
' Wear«n.» Price
Illustrated List oi» Application.
L OUNLOT RU«»EK CO?. AH.Stoi— * N Z-_
(DUNLOP
CYCLE
YRES
mfsm
are only genuine
when Cover
and Tube hear
this
fh
No other make of Tyre gioes
the wear and tatiefociien
) a “Dunlop" doe*.
DUNLOP ItUIUR 00.
Aji mm—rn mmd RX.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 25, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The other Sunday afternoon, St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital unfolded its new wing, which
included a study for medical students and
residential rooms for doctors. There were
some hitches in the opening ceremony.
Governor Fuller, who was indisposed, sent
his excuses from the cool heights of Mace-
don, and John Madden apologised for hav-
ing caught the influenza. Still the wing
was unfolded safely without their assist-
ance, and, afterwards, some tea-room houris
served round tea to the visitors. All’s well
that feeds well. Professors Elkington and
Allen, John Gavan Duffy, young Frank
Brennan, and East Melbourne’s Farthing
all had more or less to say on the interest-
ing occasion. Earlier in the week, a meet-
ing organised by the Mother Rectress was
held in a corner of the partially dismantled
Town Hall, whereat it was decided that the
Hospital shall work up “a grand demonstra-
tion” in conjunction with the Druids at
Easter. St. Vincent’s has an aggravating-
pile of debt, and desires to shake it off the
roof; also, the good work is rapidly increas-
ing, so that the yawn of the cashbox re-
sembles that of a hungry alligator.
The G.-G. Denmans’ school treat scored
a fine afternoon, and the 2500 youngsters
who came along had the time of their brief
lives. The grass was too damp for food to
be taken on the lawns —for which mercy
I’m sure the head gardener must have
privately offered up a burnt sacrifice behind
the shrubbery. Red felt was hastily laid
on the precious ballroom floor, and trestle
tables built, upon which pyramids of buns
were piled. East Melbourne, on the other
side of the river, got a surprise a little later
when strange things fell out of the sky and
sat on its roof. The strange objects were
■the contents of the daylight fireworks, which
had been carried over from the grounds by
the strong southerly. Amongst the appari-
tions were fat red paper men and white
paper horses; also, aeroplanes and other
strange animals. The operator managed to
dodge the wind with the second lot, and the
contents fell into the garden, much to the
kiddies’ delight. Lady Denman always
seemed to have about a hundred youngsters
in close attendance, and she worked hard
at lifting her guests into the machine called
the Ocean Wave, which proved the most
popular side show of the lot.
Rupert Clarke lately brought Herbert
Power’s station in the Riverina, not for
himself, but for daughter Phyllis and Reggie
Power, her husband. Said that the pro-
perty changed hands for a trifle of £60,000
or so.
Women are dear, thoughtful creatures.
One spoilt Melbourne matron recently
presented hubby with a Christmas pre-
sent. It was a fine hand mirror. “It
will do for me to use when I come to see
you at the office, dear,” she explained as she
handed it over.
All the good catches are not being made
by -the cricketers. A gilded youth, on being
lightly dismissed by his fiancee, flung his
heart to a rival beauty, who, in the words
of the cricket reporter, “smartly accepted
the chance.” It was a fine bit of fielding.
Minnie Grant Bruce, a busli-bred Gipps-
land girl, has produced a likely-looking chil-
dren’s gift book for the spending season in
“Mates at Billabong.” It is the story of
a bush child, and is full of incidents that
will appeal to youngsters ; also, it is attrac-
tively padded with extracts from Australian
poets and illustrations by Macfarlane.
The Fred Rows are busily getting young
daughter Jessie ready for her orange blossom-
ing, an imploring cable from fiance Dick
Richards in India having hustled things
along. The wealthy bride-elect leaves by the
Orama on January 10, reaches Colombo on
the 25th, and is to be married the same day
to her tea-man. Mr. and Mrs. Jarrard, who
are travelling with her, will give her away.
Miss dress-builder Bacon is soon to drop her
needle and become the bride of chemist Bon-
nington. The wedding will happen early in
the New Year, with a Maoriland honeymoon
to follow, ere the pair of them settle down to
domesticity in Melbourne.
When the youthful Duke of Westminster,
whose spending allowance has just been re-
duced by trustees or other animals to
£lOO,OOO a year or so, was dining the King
and Queen of Spain recently, two of the
guests were Sir Philip and Lady Clarke-Grey
Egerton. They are neighbors of his in
Oh ©share.
At the Landale-Clarke wedding, the bride-
groom read his very curt speech—an unneces-
sarv proceeding, seeing that nothing is ex-
pected of a bridegroom save a few stammers
and a blissful expression of countenance. I
believe there was once an eloquent, political
bridegroom who spoke for two hours at the
wedding breakfast, but the correct thing is
just to say “er” and “haw.”
Dick Fehon, of Dalgety’s, who has been
recuperating of late in Maoriland, has re-
turned to Melbourne, and is again tapping
with Ms little hammer at the Wool Ex-
change. On his first reappearance, t’other
Monday, the wool buyers gave him a wel-
coming round of applause as he mounted
the rostrum to dispose of the sheep’s coat
and trousers.
Mrs. Curie, the Frenchwoman who re-
ceived the Nobel prize of £BOOO for her chemi-
cal discoveries —especially in connection with
radium —now figures as co-respondent in a
successful divorce suit brought by the wife
of Professor Langevin against her husband.
Alas, the scientific mind! Always investi-
gating where it should not.
Jean, youngest of the musical Stamp
girls, of Bendigo, will be led to the altar, on
Saturday next, by the versatile Frank. Gar-
ner. who lives on the Inky Way, and in his
spare times is first violin for several ama-
teur musical clubs.
Amongst the approaching events is listed
the wedding of a well-known Melbourne
medico’s pretty daughter to a widowed
planter. The bride-elect is tripping off to
the Coral Strand for the ceremony.
•The engagement of a Melbourne girl to a
young man who awaits her in Asia is the
climax of a romantic chapter. The pair met
on shipboard, when he was travelling out
to claim a Westralian bride. However, he
found on landing that the Westralian girl
was merely waiting to break the news to
him that, after many years, she had changed
her mind in favor of another and less pro-
longed suitor. The forsaken traveller was
upset at the time; but he speedily cheered
up when he again met his fellow-passenger.
Probably, though, the poor chap will feel
uneasy until he has actually got himself
married.
The Melbourne High School (which used to
impart knowledge as the Continuation
School) has been showing some of the work
done by the senior students in the suburbs.
Amongst the exhibits were simple and charm-
ing examples of true needlework, intended as
object lessons to people who make home
hideous with laboriously-constructed mon-
strosities. If their energy can be directed, to
more useful and artistic-ends, the Education
Department will not have stitched in vain.
Manager Kozminsky, of the Austral Hat
Mills, is getting around town again, looking
none the worse for his recent serious engage-
ment with the bloodthirsty surgeons. Some-
thing that wasn’t appendicitis happened to
Mr. Koz. a while ago, and for two weeks he
lay in a private hospital, enduring the after-
effects of the operating knife.
The railway platform was crowded with
weary Christmas shoppers when he ar-
rived. Under one arm he wore a senior
crayfish of great claw measurement. A
monster pink gauze Christmas stocking
nestled under the other. Carefully propping
up the crayfish in one corner of the seat,
and telling it to be good, he opened and pro-
ceeded to distribute the contents of the trans-
parent hosiery. With a brilliant smile, he
presented a lolly comforter with blue ribbon
loop to a furious maiden lady. Then a
stout man of savage aspect was maddened
by having a tin trumpet thrust upon him. A
tiny mirror, wrapped carefully in a scrap of
the crayfish’s newspaper, was awarded to a
sympathetic porter, who had temporarily
knocked off work to grin fatuously. As the
train steamed out, Father Christmas was
observed trying to light a chocolate cigar
and construct a hobble skirt for the crayfish
out of the pink gauze.
“Rosna” writes from London: —
Helena Rubenstein Titus has taken a palace or a
castle or something in the Rue St. Henri, Paris, so
you may expect to hear any minute that the haute
noblesse of France is down on its bended knees, beg-
ging her for a new complexion. The place has cost
a young fortune in decoration alone, and every bit
of furniture in it is to be an art treasure. The
whole British peerage apparently takes its complexion
to Helena, in London. Anyway, her house in Graf-
ton-street has always a long string of waiting and
coroneted carriages and electric broughams and haw-
haughty footmen trailing in front of it. It’s a charm-
ing place, too —once the home of a marquis or some-
thing similar, now a regular treasure-house of desir-
able pictures, old oak and other bric-a-brac of that
description. 1
Marie Narelle is off back to America to meet John
McCormack at Vancouver, and the pair will then sing
to Uncle Sam until May. After that, there’s an Irish
tour in prospect. The two small Narelle daughters
are at school in London.
Clytie Hine, the South Australian songstress,
played lead in Cherubini’s “Water Carrier,” pro-
duced at His Majesty’s by students of the Royal Col-
lege of Music, on November 21. and a mighty good
lead it was. The soprano is adding inches to her
musical stature. This week she warbles as the shep-
herd boy in* “Tannhauser,” at Covent Garden, and a
week or so ago played Freia in “Rhinegold” at the
same stronghold. She grasped her opportunities
firmly, and was a most desirable goddess of youth!
Godfrey Ludlow, the Sydneyside fiddle-boy, has
been laurel-gathering at some sneezy-named maestro’s
concert in Vienna, and the critical Austrian press
poured out on him every adjective in its language of
praise. He is due to give a concert in the Queen’s
Hall in February, with Sir Henry Wood as con-
ductor.
The Denmans professed much delight,
mingled with astonishment, at Gregan
McMahon’s production of “Rosmersiholm.”
They had no ideah that Ibsen could be so
well done in Australiah. And, seemingly,
the enthusiasm was not merely compliment-
ary, for when “Chains” —the second piece
of the season-r-came on for discussion, the
Gov’ment House party came in force —
eight strong—and left with further protes-
tations of esteem for Mac’s venture in
literary drama. Like the wise agriculturist
who makes hay whilst the sun shines, mana-
ger Mac is floating the Repertory Theatre
into a limited co-operative co. of 1000 mem-
bers at a guinea, with a view to staging
plays under full theatrical conditions.
John McCormack went to Sydney this
time as a grass widower. Pretty Mrs.
John stayed in Melbourne (at Toorak)
with her sister, Miss Foley, to take a long
last leave of her two bairns. The kiddies go
straight' back to Ireland with auntie, the
journey via America being too much for
their travelling capacity at present. The
young McCormacks have had the Denman
children for playmates two or three times,
and are departing these shores in an aroma
of vice-regal patronage. If they take after
“popper” in their Hibernian likings, they
will be great sports hereafter. McCormack
is mostly thinking horse when he isn’t work-
ing for his living. During his stay in Mel-
bourne he and his pal Sam McKay (Fan
Dang'o’s husband) jaunted to every avail-
able race meeting, big or small, and a good
percentage of his operatic fees has, presum-
ably, passed into the keeping of the gentle-
men who bawl (or brawl) the odds.
Fan Dango’s husband has bought Ernest
Brooks’s fine house in Alma-road, round the
corner from Gloyme, the Madden family
residence. It will make a cosy town nest
for them. The owners of mansions adja-
cent are thanking their stars that the place
did not fall into the hands of the paying
guest provider—the usual finish of all big
houses these Maryannless days. The Ernest
Brooks duo seem to have departed for good.
He has just brushed the Australian dust off
his’ heels, and Mrs. Ernest is already in the;
Fog. Local restaurants will know them no
more. The valuable sticks of Oamelot will
be one of the auctioneer’s next jobs. Brooks,
who is an enthusiastic collector, had hoped
to-sell the whole lot with the house; but it
seems that all the furnishings and ancient
and aboriginal curios are to be hammered
in lots in due course.
Some time ago, the Taits threatened to put
up a good concert hall for Melbourne, and
the music lovers, who have sneezed and grum-
bled for years in the Town Barn and other
unsuitable places, threw up their spectacles
and cheered. However, something must have
interfered with the admirable intentions, for
the promised hall shows no signs of sprout-
ing. Now that the Town Barn has been
closed for alterations and additions, pur-
veyors of music have had to pour out the
melodic goods in any old place. The closing
of the Barn would have been the new hall’s
opportunity, but the desired edifice is not
there to take it.
Lately returned to her native gum trees,
Sylvia Yarra, the oratorio singer who is
Sylvia Downing in private life. She ac-
quired an attack of nerves or breakdown
whilst in London, and was ordered to take
the sea voyage home. The bonnie invalid is
located with her sister at the George, St.
Kilda. Unfortunately, the medicine men
have forbidden her to give concerts here-
abouts. At the end of February, the pair
trek back again to .the Fog, via Japan and
the Rockies.
From my Adelaide correspondent :
“Henley-on-Torrens” transpired on Saturday. ’ The
weather was something similar to last year, i.e., as
chill and dreary as a Wowser bun-orgie. _ Neverthe-
less, a fair crowd turned up. the two-shilling reserve
on the bank doing especially well. The prize-winning
boat (Miss Champion’s) was a vision of red and pink
chrysanthemums; and Miss Exton’s pale _ pink Hy-
drangea ran it very close. That gallant knight, E. T.
Smith, dispensed tea in a house-boat to the Governor
and other favored beings, and the presentation of a
silver salver to secretary Sharp made quite a drama-
tic interlude. In the evening the boats hung them-
selves with colored lights, and pottered about while
they were again judged for prizes. The Geisha and
the Nikko Maru were the lucky ones.
Meanwhile there was a rival entertainment at the
Outer Harbor, where about 300 people were drinking
tea on the Orama. She’s a huge boat, and most of
the guests spent their time getting lost in a maze
of passage-ways.
Racing-medico Bennett was married quietly last
Saturday moraine - to Miss Garnant. They went to
M.L. for the honeymoon. Apropos, Miss Doswell
weds Mr. Jordan early in January; also, Miss Wil-
liams, of Meduvdie, is to marry Mr. George Crut-
tenden. The latter pair propose to settle down in
Sydney.
Dr. and Mrs. Lionel Smith leave for England
almost immediately, owing to the illness of Mrs.
Smith’s mother. They’ve only been in Adelaide for
about a year.
“Noel Aimir,” a pen-name which thinly-dis-
guises the author’s identity, has written another
book, this time choosing India instead of Australia
as her setting. It is an interesting little tale, with a
dash of “spookiness,” and is published in the writer’s
native tongue. She and her sister have taught French
to a large section of Adelaide.
There was a crowded house at the Town Hall on
Tuesday evening, when the Choral Society gave an
excellent rendering of “The Messiah.” Mr. F. Halls,
Mr. Cooper, Miss Forsaith and Miss Cheek sang, and
Mr. Bevan conducted.
This cultivated hamlet has now two more scholar-
ships to strive for —one in memory of the late
Thomas Price and the other of Miss Spence. One is
open to school children aged under 17, and the other
to women between 20 and 35 years of age, who have
lived in S. Australia for at least five years. Both are
worth £3OO, but in the case of the latter there is a
sum of £2OB held by the Spence memorial com-
mittee, the interest of which is to be added to the
value of the scholarship during the later part of the
term.
Obit last Tuesday F. C. Tomkinson, youngest son
of the late Samuel Tomkinson. He was an old St.
Peter’s boy, and a good sort.
The S.P.C.A. displays some knowledge of human
nature in the special appeal which it is making to
the public for kindly treatment of animals during.
the holidays—the neglected cat and the forgotten
dog and the overlooked cockatoo, who are so often
unprovided for when their owners leave for the period
of rejoicing. The advt. begins by requesting “humane
persons” to behave as such, and finishes by the signi-
ficant remark that special provision has been made
for police supervision and extra inspectors. As Barry
Pain says somewhere: “The sting of these remarks
lies in their tail.” By the way, it looks as though
There .was good work for the society to do in the S.
East. The islands at the western end of Lake Bonney
are the nesting ground of thousands of birds—
mostly ibis —and this fact has become known, with
the result that the place is infested with “sightseers,”
who work ruthless and wanton destruction. Eggs and
nests are trampled underfoot, young birds chased
through the bushes, and parent birds frightened
away. Seeing that the ibis is the proven friend of
the farmer, it is up to the Government to proclaim
this region a bird sanctuary.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
When you feel lazy and do not enjoy your work
take Chamberlain’s Tablets,*
The big Miners’ Association at Broken
Hill has decided that it will part up on
behalf of any member who is fined for refus-
ing to allow his son to be trained under the
Labor Government’s defence scheme. Under
the circumstances, instead of professing to
be a tremendous supporter of the Labor
party, it would be much more honest if the
Miners’ Association declared at once that
it is a rebel and an avowed enemy. When
a Labor member kicks over the traces and
votes against the Labor platform, the
Miners’ Ass, has been pretty prompt in ask-
ing him what he is doing inside the party;
and it seems about up to the party to ask
now what the Broken Hill body is doing in
the same place.
The Beauty Competition at the Sydney
Hospital entertainment, last week, demon-
strated that Norman Lindsay knows more
about the Australian girl’s legs than his
critics. Practically every one of the 60
contestants displayed calves that would in
no wise have shamed a jiu-jitsu professor.
For that matter, the ladies were adequately,
not to say profusely, developed otherwise.
Take it for all in all, it more resembled a
heavyweight tourney than a beauty compe-
tition. Another characteristic which the
fair ones displayed to a marked degree was
nerve. Neither the rhinoceros, nor the
“Liberal” organiser, nor all the drummers
in the U.S. possess the superb hide of some
of these.


\
if
"V
■
-•
m
■ - .
#
V.
K
■
m
m
E&
m
• ■ ■•
Wfm
Mi
Ms
■4 tr
m
fT~~r
bJ
s * £ Z
3 ~.3
earn
w *
■ \ f y&
I fesf/j
ISgis
I s -*!
t
r
u
*sr->
ap
a
lit
. iv* J.
■■■
a
la*
Made from Fresh Lemons.
' .( v <V ■
Mixed with Schweppes* Soda Water or Lithia Water*
maKes a most Delightful and Refreshing DrinK.
Purveyors of Mineral Waters to His Majesty the King,
Head Office f 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World.
fh
THE NEW DRINK.
Palatable and Refreshing, Made from the Best
Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root. A Blood Purifier.
by SCHWEPPES
LTD.


t.
mm
m
Whether it's a convivial gather-
ing, a quiet nip with a friend or
a ** Jimmy Woodser” —the
liquor you'll like and that'll like
you best is *..
Watson’s No. 10
Whisky. A
LAXO-TONIC PILLS
Are a safe and certain remedy for Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Liver Troubles, Flatulence, Anaemia, etc.
Sold at 10id. and 1/6.*
The pleasant purgative effect experienced by all
who use Chamberlain’s Tablets makes one feel joy-
ful.*
Hfrnrei
RE
The true safe-
guard is Den-
ver’s Special
Elastic Truss
Gives perfect
support, and
allows active
ex e r cise in
safety. Non-
irritating—no
steel springs;
eool, most durable. Exact fit assured. Call or write.
DEN YER BROS., Truss and Abdominal Belt Mahers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Experienced, Lady in Attendance.
OENYER
©
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double.
Others from 3/6
POLITICAL
POINTS
From “W.J.8.” :
I see that the Federal Government has ordered an
c:iqi.iry into the drinking habits of old age pen-
sioners. The idea may be, of course, to take steps
to provide'these unfortunates with free beer for life.
My personal view, however, is that the new move is
merely part of the general scheme of Wowserdom to
lessen the sparse supply of joy that Providence has
allotted to the “lower orders.” The objective of the pro-
fessional holy man is to bring about the forfeiture of
the pensions of the non-abstaining old folks. Now, an
old age pension involves its recipient in no responsi-
bility to the Wowser or anyone else. It is a payment
(and an inadequate one at that) to the individual for
benefits conferred by him on the community, as the
incidental result of a life of ordinarily decent citizen-
ship : and it has been earned prior to its bestowal.
The mode of expenditure, therefore, does not
affect the pensioner’s right to hold uncontrolled
possession of it, subject only to such legal restric-
tions as apply to other forms of property. Once
granted, there is only one ground on which the pen-
sion may be forfeited honestly and honorably: that
of misrepresentation in the claim on which it was
obtained. In fact, there is no more equity in de-
priving an old age pensioner of his money, on the
ground that he loves beer, than there would be in
inflicting the same punishment on, say, a retired
Judge, because he had developed a liking for cham-
pagne.
INDECENT HASTE.—AN OPPOSITION NIGHTMARE.
John Bull’s strike, or rumored strike, or
lockout, grows chronic, and so does that of
his brother, Alexander MacParritch. The
dingy old Scotch city of Dundee has had the
dockers, canters and mill-workers out, and
they were so “willing,” and trod so cordially
on the police that soldiers were sent for.
The same day there was mention of a dyers’
strike, an expected lockout of 100,000 cot-
ton spinners, and a chance that 700,000 coal
diggers would leave off simultaneously un-
less they got a decent minimum wage. And
the general railway strike is threatening all
the time : .
One of the things that helped to shatter
Joseph Ward in Maoriland was a postcard.
On one end was a portrait of the great Pre-
mier louseph himself, with all his honors and
titles attached, and bearing below the legend.,
“The man who presented the Empire with a
Dreadnought.” And on the other end was a
picture of the men with the hoe, labelled:
“The blokes who will toil for the next 50
years to pay for it.” It hit Ward, Baronet,
where he lived.
“M.”: King O’Malley is a weird bird.
He has done all manner of quaint things
since he took charge of the Home Affairs
Department 18 months ago. Some of these
things have been nearly valuable, and gener-
ally only the stupendous vanity of the King
prevented them from being quite so. One of
the worst features in the Home Affairs De-
partment has been the long time it required
to get anything done. It took months to
convince the official mind that anything
ought to be done. Having convinced it, it
took more months before anything began to
be done. The chief improvement intro-
duced by the King was a system of assuring
aggrieved persons that the thing required
was being done. It wasn’t, of course, but
the assurance circulated, and the King got
the benefit of it. Of course, 'he hasn’t been
very long on the job yet, and people have
hardly had time to discover that the thing,
so far from being in full blast and nearly
finished, hasn’t even begun to think of start-
ing to be commenced.
“Red Tape Senior” :
N.S.W. Public Service has been presented with a
Christmas box, and is eagerly searching with an axe
for the chap to thank for it. The Act of ’96 (Reid’s
Act) provided for a quinquennial regrading of the
Service; and, as the last lift-up was on January 1,
1906, the Service, by a simple process of addition,
figured out another rise, to date from January 1,
1911. The Public Service Board has been occupied
for months past in regrading the departments, and it
was taken for granted that the increases would date
from January last. Now comes a bombshell in the
announcement that all increments will begin on
January 1, 1912. It seems that in 1910, Wade, in a
panic-stricken attempt to cajole the Service vote,
passed an amending Act, which, incidentally, struck
out the provision that salaries should be revised every
five years. It was understood at the time that this
was done so that the Red Tapers wouldn’t require
to wait so long for their rise, but now they find they
have to wait longer. In their excitement they don’t
know which to curse first —the Premier who invented
the trick, or the Premier who did it.
Premier Weary’s majority isn’t as docile as
lie would like it. Last week, Vic. Railways
Minister Billson was pushing the Benalla
to Tatong Railway Bill through, when
Labor member Hannah moved that the
minimum wage on the construction should
be Bs. 6d. per day instead of Bs. Strong
man Billson was adamant. The Govern-
ment would stick to the Bill. But half a
dozen Wearymen regretfully intimated that
they would have to support Hannah, so
there was a hurried Ministerial conference,
and Billson confidentially assured the House
that “the Government did not consider it its
duty to assume an attitude hostile to most
of -the members present, and the amendment
would be accepted.” It was an extremely
sensible remark to make, but it completely
knocks the bottom out of the svstem of
Party Government, and says the last word
that it should be necessary to say in favor
of elective Ministries.
One British trust, the Coates thread-
making affair, realised £3.102.952 profit last
year, as compared with £3,171,463 the year
before. It pays a 35 per cent, dividend,
and increases its reserve fund to £9,200,000
odd. It is a common Freetrade plea that
the Trust is the child of Protection. The
Bulletin rather suspects that it isn’t the
child of anybodv ; that it was a vicious in-
fant found on the doorstep of the Devil, and
was brought up on the bottle.
A diverse person is the Liberal Female.
There is to be a congress of this lady at
Hobart next month, and among the bodies
that are to “read papers” are: (1) the Aus-
tralian Women’s National League; (2) the
Liberal Association of N.S.W.; (3) the
Queensland Women’s Electoral League; (4)
the People’s Liberal Party; (5) the
Women’s Liberal League; (6) the Women’s
Branch Liberal Association; (7) the
Women’s Liberal League—not the same as
No. 5; and (8) the Women’s Branch Tas-
manian Liberal League.
RE THE FEDERAL 10 AN.
AUSTRALIA: “Andy Fisher, you've broken your pledge.”
Cheery fragment, met with by this paper
recently, in oiie of those journals which de-
light fo, print Bruce Smith’s chat about the
high civilisation of “the East” (meaning
Chowdom), and Peace Society stuff re the
gentle amiability of the Yellow One; —
Following the massacre, the Wuchow soldiers in-
dulged in a terrible orgy. After 60 odd prisoners,
some of whom were declared to be sons of the local
gentry, and suspected of favoring the loyalists, had
been beheaded, the soldiers, in their thirst for blood,
cut out the hearts of the dead men and ate them.
Some, with a finer sense of cannibalism, roasted the
delicacy before consumption, but others devoured
their revolting meal raw.
Melbourne Akgus office lias been in a tur-
moil lately, which probably explains why,
on December 14, it accidentally published a
letter that gave the Federal Government a
strong hint to increase its land tax. (The
State Government might do likewise, but a
hint is no better than a nod to a weary
horse.) The writer told how, taking a motor
trip to Ballarat, he had enjoyed the beautiful
scenery around Bacchus Marsh, and had ob-
served the rich soil so near to Melbourne: —
Our main feeling, however, was one of sorrow to
see so many thousands and thousands of acres of
lovely land with nothing but thistles .growing on
them. Many of these thistles were from’6ft. to Bft.
high, whilst these same acres would give handsome
livings if cultivated in 50-acre blocks. Of course
the Thistle Act is not enforced—
Naturally, being administered by the muni-
cipal councils —-
but why do we bring immigrants all the wav irom
Europe and send them up country hundreds of miles
to scratch for a living, when a competence awaits any
cultivator here, right alongside our chief market?
The Argus could answer that question in
one try, but isn’t in the least likely to risk
the anger of the fat landlord by doing any-
thing so sensible.
Melbourne Harbor Trust has two (2)
solid hatreds: It loathes local enterprise
much and State enterprise more. So when
the State coal mine offered to supply it
with coal at 11s. 10£d. per ton, and Private
Enterprise offered to supply equally good
N.S.W. coal delivered at the same place for
17s. 9d. per ton, it at once proposed to take
the dearer article. Its alleged reason was
that the State tender was “informal,” and
it could hardly be otherwise, for the terms
of the contract specified that the coal must
be shipped from Newcastle (N.S.W.), and
-that delivery might be taken “alongside the
importing vessel.” As the coal of the Vic-
torian State mine doesn’t go near New-
castle, and is sent to Melbourne by rail, and
not on any “importing vessel,” of course the
State mine’s tender had to be “informal.”
At latest advices, Treasurer Watt was
speaking to the Trust.
The N.S.W. Assembly’s next meeting will
probably reveal Speaker Willis, as a friend-
less man. When he took the Speakership
and started to suppress -the wild Tory dis-
orderlies, all his old friends turned to furi-
ous enemies. When he drew public atten-
tion to the fact that the Government hadn’t
adhered to the terms of the agreement on
which his appointment was based, a great
coolness arose among his new friends. Now
his suspension of the head of Hansard
staff and his trouble with the President of
the Council have raised the- devil, and his
removal is talked of. But Speaker Willis
will be a hard person to remove if he doesn’t
want to go. Should Premier McGowen rise
to propose that lie be shifted, the strong
man in the chair will probably-'rule him out
of order before he is halfway through his
second remark. He may rule out of order
everybody who tries to follow up the matter,
and if it is followed up too far he may have
everybody ejected in succession. Then while
there is nobody present save himself, he
may, perhaps, adjourn for three months. A
man of AVillis’s resource is a very large
thistle to sit upon.
A final wail before the N.S.W. Assembly
rambled away in great disorder was supplied
by Levy, M.L.A. He said be had “been
treated like a dog” by Speaker Willis. In
some countries no one could ask for better
treatment than that, but Levy is a Hebrew,
with the Hebrew way of looking at things.
Not once in the Scripture is Carlo spoken of
except with contempt or indifference. It
was Fido; who ate Jezebel in Jezreel, and
when Hazael was told that he should reign
in Syria and do much evil, he asked wildly
if he was Towser that he should do this
thing. So, presumably, Dan Levy intended
to disparage Willis. Yet he might have
been a little more definite.
OUTSIDE THE HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Fitzpatrick said that, prior to Mr. Willis being
placed in the Chair, he, in 16 years of Parliamen-
tary life, had been expelled from the Chamber only
once, but during the last few months he had been
hustled out into the street by the police 10 or 11
times. — Daily paper.
There’s a wrestle in the corridor —-a scuffle on the
mat,
And the Member for Impertinence is jumping ’neath
his hat,
While a large, impassive copper in the doorway
stands erect,
Fending off the legislator with all possible respect;
He may be the cop’s employer in another year or so ;
It’s a dim, remote contingency—but still you never
know.
For the shuffles
And the scuffles
In the Parliamentary pen
Give the most important billets to all sorts and kinds
of men.
(“Beg your pardon, Mr. Blighter, but you can’t go
in again !
No! you mustn’t try again!”)
There’s a heated conversation ’twixt a helmet and a
hat:
“ ’Tis th’;order of th’ Speaker!” (“Well, what do
I care for that?”)
“I can’t help it, Mr. Blighter. ’Tis me duty that I
do! 1
I’ve, me orders to obey, sir! Surely that is plain to
you?
Now, don’t shove, sir! Don’t! Th’ crowd, sir!
See, they’re watchin’ from th’ street,
Now, don’t struggle, if you please, sir! It’s just
givin’ them a treat!
Get away, sir,
For to-day, sir !
Let the thing blow over... Good!
That’s the best course, Mr. Blighter! You’ll go
home ? I wish I could!
There, he’s 0ff!....N0w, what’s that racket? Lord!
I hope it isn’t Wood !
Surely, now, that can’t be Wood!
N.S.W.
SERGEANT MACQUARIE.
A BASE SLANDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Perth, Friday.
In the Assembly the Premier introduced a Loan Bill
for £2,142,000, the chief items being railways,
£1,242,000; agricultural development, £275,000 ;
and harbors and rivers, £123,000.
Mr. Scaddan said that the loan expenditure must
continue at a high rate for the next four or five years.
The Government had already given the lie to those
who had described the Laborites as the non-borrow-
ing party. —Reassuring telegram to S. M. Herald.
You say we are an honest lot
Who wish to do the proper thing,
And pay for goods upon the spot—
Well, someone’s got you “on a string”—
Who said we were a cautious lot?
Emphatically, we are not!
Who said that we abhorred-a Loan?
Dismiss the vain delusion, pray!
It is a lie we won’t condone
That we intend to pay our way—
Why, on the contrary, my man,
We mean to borrow all we can!
Do you assume that we’re in power
To put our muddled finance straight?
Absurdl We wouldn’t waste an hour
On anything so addle-pate!
The first thing that we ascertained
Was: How much borrowed cash remainedf
It’s very hard to find our views
Distorted in this shameful way!
We’re just as quick with lOU’s
As anybody —any day !
Why, when it comes to raising Loans
The crowd we’ve outed are but drones!
A word in confidence; now, hark!
We’re here to scatter £ s. d.
This Government will now embark
On one long, joyous jamboree!
If we set out to paint things red,
Why, surely all the Jews ain’t dead ?
MORAL.
Don’t think we are a careful lot,
Emphatically, we —are—not!
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


The LEADING HOUSE
••• FOR •••
PIANOS.
STEINWAY—BRINSMEAD—FEURICH
In selecting one of these noble instruments you
are following the recorded judgment of the
WORLD’S GREATEST ARTISTS.
MIGNON
PIANOS
MASON 8 HAMLIN
ORGANS
NANON
PIANOS
Musical Instruments, Talking Machines.
SHEET MUSIC IN ENDLESS VARIETY.
NICHOLSON 8 CO., Limited
Sydney, Newcastle, Orange,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, Warwick.
m
n
Hunting Rifles
After them with a good re-
peating rifle ! Be sure it’s
a Winchester, though, as
this rifle is reliable and
accurate. It is made in
calibers suitable for hunting
any size of game. The
Model 1892, made in .25-20, .32, .38 and .44 cal-
ibers, is widely used for Australian game. These
rifles are not expensive, although they are made to
get game and stand hard usage. The Winchester
.22 caliber Automatic and Winchester Model 1905
Self-Loading rifles, made in .32 and .35 calibers, are
also very popular among Australian hunters, as they
never fail. These rifles are very rapid in shooting
and unequalled as game
getters, being particularly
effective on running game,
as they can be held right on
the game while a succes-
sion of rapid shots is fired
with accuracy. Their system
of operation is simple and
they please in every way.
For sale by All Dealers.
\w
-"'53
rrs
*y
m
•V
%
l*
800,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
WRITTEN, ILLUSTRATED AND PRINTED IN AUSTRALIA.
Price Is. each; Post Free Is. Id.
fmRRINCTON
urn*
“MR. BARRINGTON.”
By ROY BRIDGES, author of “By His
Excellency’s Command.”
Illustrated by LIONEL LINDSAY. Price, 1/-; post free, 1/1.
This is the life story of George Barrington, the notorious pick-
pocket, who, after a most meteoric career in England, was trans-
ported to New South Wales, where he retrieved his lost character to
such an extent as to receive a position of trust from the Government
authorities. . .
His escapades in London, his gambling affairs, his famous duel in
the Thieves’ Kitchen with the pirate, Captain Conger, his various
love affairs, illicit and otherwise, and his final trial, are all dealt
with in that inimitable style of which Mr. Bridges is master.
SELECTED LIST OF OTHER BOOKS IN THIS SERIES
THE RIVAL PHYSICIANS
THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT
DAN KELLY, OUTLAW
CALOOLA . ..
THE HEART OF THE BUSH
LOVE AND THE AEROPLANE
HOW McDOUGALL TOPPED THE SCORE
THE SPRING CLEANING
BRIDGET McSWEENEY .....
WHY DOHERTY DIED
THE HAUNTED SHANTY
THE POOR PARSON
DUNCAN McCLURE
SANDY’S SELECTION
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
FOR LIFE i
DAD IN POLITICS
ON OUR SELECTION
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
OUR NEW SELECTION
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
THE DASHWOODS
THE BOOK OF DAN
A MAN OF SYMPATHY
“Paul Cupid’’
A. Pratt
C. Pratt
Broda Reynolds
John Sandes
T. E. Spencer
“Steele Rudd”
Harry Tiglie
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
An Australian’s
Cross-Country
Passeng'er Flig'ht
PenritH, N.S.W.
Over tbe Blue Mountains
To Parramatta, Nov. 3rd.
W. Hart, on a Bristol Biplane,
an altitude of 3000 feet
and a
speed of 60 miles per Hour,
accomplished on
PRATT’S
Yellow Label
(The First Australian Pupil of
Mr. McDonald, of the Bristol-Biplane Co.,
whose Colonial Headquarters are at
Penritb, New Soutb Wales)
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.


On
Everybody’
Lips.
m
o
Six-Day
Bicycle Race
and Cycling Carnival.
Promoter : J. D. WILLIAMS.
Prize Money: £1650
Sydney Cricket Grounds.
COMMENCING
JANUARY 1, 1912.
When your head aches, when you feel stupid or
depressed after eating—take Chamberlain’s Tablets.*
RESCN’S SELECT
& LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
Wait Auitrallan Aganta—RICHARD HBLMEI it 00., PERTH, KALOOORLIE and COOLQARDIE.
Bkkwbry and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
There were some 20,000 or 30,000 hot
and dusty people—far more than the staggered tram-
way service felt qualified to cope with —at the
great Stadium of Mclntosh, at Ruslicutter’s Bay,
Sydney, on Boxing Day. They came to see the 20-
round coolness between Langford and McVea, two
images of the Lord done in ebony, or, rather, in burnt
sienna. There was the usual gathering of male sup-
porters at the corners of the ring, and the clothes of
that gathering were wonderful to behold. The parties
included bottle-holders, fanners, the men in charge of
the block of ice to put on the patient’s neck, the
gentleman who poured water over his principal, the
giver of good advice, and the person who bestowed
moral support. The names of these esteemed citi-
zens can be found in the daily press. The audience
applauded a little when some ladies entered, and
the man with the megaphone announced that Jim
Barry, a United States heavyweight, recently arrived,
was just aching to hit the winner where it would
do him most good.
The two colored men seemed unequally matched.
Langford looked small by comparison, and his hair
was cut so short that he had practically none. McVea
was much bigger, and had a mat of wool on his
cranium. He had the longer reach and the greater
weight, and he had twice us much hair on his legs
as his rival. His extremities were like masts and
his chest suggested the 6ide of a quarry. Langford
wore an affable countenance, which might, if neces-
sary, do service in nigger minstrelsy, while the other
man looked on the world with a warlike expres-
sion, and wore a chin that stuck out like a cow-
catcher. It was a fighting countenance that McVea
turned on the admiring multitude. On appearance,
in fact, the one feature of equality was that both
men were named Samuel. Langford arrived first in a
remarkable dressing-gowsn. McVea turned up later
in an amazing garment of similar description, and
accompanied by a red and blue umbrella of heroic
dimensions. Langford inspected McVea critically, as
if searching him for hidden weapons. McVea didn’t
inspect Langford at all. Referee “Snowy” Baker
took off his hat and prepared to pursue his profes-
sion bare-headed in the hot sun. Later, he changed
his mind and resumed his hat
It was a fairly-strenuous and skilful, but rather
dreary combat, and went the full 20 rounds. The
men were very evenly matched, despite the dis-
crepancy of size. Langford had a deadly punch,
which should have settled the question if it had
been at the end of a longer arm. McVea had a
wallop like an astronomical telescope for length, but
apparently there wasn’t a heavy enough missile at
the end of it. There wasn’t one knock-down in the
whole proceedings, though the friendly countenance of
Langford slid halfway to the floor once. Langford
rushed the game, and did most of the hard work.
He had the courage of a long line of bulldogs, and
his one great desire was to get at his enemy. McVea
kept on the defensive part of the time, which Lang-
ford never did. Over and over again the swiftness
of the big man’s long, harry legs got him briskly
out of a corner which looked a very awkward corner
indeed. It was Langford’s ambition to smite the vast
area of his antagonist in any lawful part, and, when
they clinched, the busy little boxer biffed his enemy
on the back to save time. He hated to be doing
nothing, but there was so much of McVea’s back
that he hadn’t a chance to hit all of it twice before
the last gong sounded. McVea aimed at Langford’s
face for preference, and closed h's right eye in one
of his rushes. That was about the 16th round, and
thereafter Langford fought a somewhat one-sided
campaign. Towards the end, the sun of his other
eye threatened to set also, though these were the
only signs of damage he showed. There were no visible
evidences of deterioration on McVea, except that he
sometimes wore a more hostile expression than at
other times. Langford’s biffs were far the more
audible of the two, but then he was biffing the
battlements of a very hard and bony, though some-
what slow proposition.
It was really a triangular disagreement, for Referee
“Snowy” Baker was fighting both parties a great
part of the morning. They clinched an extraordinary
number of times in every round, and were mostly
heedless of “Snowy’s” adjurations. So that athlete
had to rush to the spot in his greenish trousers and
untidy felt hat, and tear the hot, slippery gladiators
apart, and he was kept busy. - It was at these
times that Langford used to slap McVea so cordially
on the back. Barring one occasmn, when the
referee said something about a suspicion of elbow
work in a clinch, there was no need to issue warn-
ings, and the men didn’t talk to each other or to the
audience during the scrap, as big, murky Johnson
did when he was swarming all over Tommy Burns.
For the first half or more of the engagement, things
seemed absolutely level. Then Langford waded in to
do a finish, and put in three rounds of extraordinary
pluck and effort. Apparently, he realised that he
was un against a very hard wall, and resolved to
knock the coping-stone off it before his strength gave
out. But, though the biff he did was something tre-
mendous, it was generally a retreating wall that he
struck. At this stage McVea’s long, impassioned
legs did him good service, and he seemed to have
an ambition to tire the other man out. After that it
was a very weary Langford who fought the last
three rounds against a much less exhausted McVea.
Still, the smaller Samuel had made so good a show-
ing, both for skill and courage, that when, at the
finish, “Snowy” Baker promptly put his hand on the
steaming shoulder of McVea, and declared him the
winner, a considerable section of the audience was
surprised, and said so frankly. This section said it
was sorry it hadn’t brought a dead eat with it.
Some regarded it as a draw, and not a few would
have given Langford the verdict. Langford sat
down heavilv in his corner at the finish, and
looked a very tired man. McVea leaped in the
air with a bright, fresh leap when he heard of his
victory. Whether the expression on his face was pure
joy, or largely astonishment, it was difficult to say.
If the churches had sent a deputation to the Lang-
ford-McVea fight, it should have done considerable
damage to the anti-boxing movement. Despite the
energy that was put into the proceedings the damage
was trivial compared to that at an ordinary football
match. In fact, a brawny expert, with a wall of
muscle all round him, isn’t an easy proposition to
damage with six-ounce gloves. But the churches
stayed away, and doubtless drew fearsome pictures
in their own minds of blood and entrails and all
manner of horrors.
* * * ♦
“Ilermes”: Contrary to expectations, the
Langford-McVea scrap went the full limit of 20
rounds, and, at the end of that time, in accordance
with the previously-formed popular idea, referee
“Snowy” Baker declared McVea the winner on
points. Now, Mr. Baker is a man for whom I
have infinite respect, and anybody who suggests that
“Snowy” Baker would give a “crook decision” is a
bounder and a liar, a miserable caitiff whom I would
gladly help to tar and .feather. Having cleared the
ground in this manner, I rise to remark that I con-
sider the decision totally wrong. The Langford-
McVea scrap was perhaps the most difficult fight
that has ever taken place in Sydney from a referee’s
standpoint. Langford was, roughly, about a stone
and a half lighter and much shorter. But he made
the fighting, and for 17 rounds was the attacking
force. From the 11th to the 17th round McVea did
not fight, he merely evaded, and took what punish-
ment he could not avoid, and poked his left into
Langford’s right eye till the outraged optic, receiving
the “most unkindest” swipe of all in the 17th
round, closed right up and refused duty. McVea then
changed his tactics and went for the left eye instead
of the right, and by the end of the 19th round that
was closing rapidly. So when the 20th round ar-
rived poor Langford was all but blind, and the only
thing left to do was to hang on somehow and see the
round out and win on points. And he ought to have
won on points. He had made ail the fighting, done
all the forcing, led in every round and rally, and car-
ried the burden and sweat of the scrap right through.
Half the audience were flabbergasted when the referee
said McVea had won, and burst into a wild hooting.
Which was deplorable. McVea has proved himself
about the best nigger that ever touched these shores,
and no one who has met him would dream of hooting
him. Of course, it was the decision that was
hooted, and not the man, but the Sydney fight-fan
can rest assured that when “Snowy” Baker gives a
decision there is good reason and argument behind it.
And there was in this case. By always hitting in
the same place McVea had reduced Langford to a
condition of almost utter helplessness. He couldn’t
have seen another couple of rounds through to save
his life, and Mr. Baker, very reasonably, decided that
a man that had been reduced to such a state of
helplessness by another who was still strong and
well, was the beaten man. All of which is very
natural and logical. But —there is always a but.
This was a boxing match. It was not a prize fight.
And in a boxing match the man who forces the fight,
makes the lead, lands the most blows —even though
he get cut to pieces in landing them —is the man
who wins out. In a prize fight the man who re-
ceives the most punishment, and is in the worst
physical condition at the fin'sh, loses. Langford had
made the fight. 11 r had done the leading; and he
had landed 10 blows to the other fellow’s one, but
McVea had landed wnat he had landed always on the
one spot, the right eye. Mr. Baker outed Lang-
ford, even as the Paris referee had declared a draw
when it should have been a win for Langford. Both
decisions were right according to the point of view.
The matter being regarded as a boxing match Lang-
ford should have got the verdict. He had proved
himself unquestionably, taking weight and reach into
consideration, the better man of the two, and deserved
the dollars that appertain to that fact. But this
is a sad world, and Virtue gets its reward in a round-
about way only. McVea had won the cash. Langford
takes home the sympathy and respect of every fol-
lower of boxing. Unfortunately, it won’t buy him
a single drink, so McVea has the “better part,” as
the Scripture hath it.
* . * * *
The N.S.W. State Skiff Championship
race on Port Jackson, on Saturday, was one of the
finest sights ever seen on the harbor. Of the 34
entrants, no less than 33 faced the flag off Clark
Island, and made one of the brightest pictures seen
on that place of many fine pictures for many a day.
The breeze, a light east-nor’-easter, was ideal; in
fact, it was almost too perfect, and did not put
enough strain on the navigation talent in charge.
Only one untoward event marred the symmetry of
the race, and that was the anticipating of the starter
by the skipper of the new boat Intrepid. He got
away 15sec. too early, and was accordingly disquali-
fied. It was hard luck, too, for, on the showing, his
craft had a best-in-the-world chance. But the an-
ticipation was fatal. Truly, there was another trifle
of trouble, which has caused a protest to be entered
against the fourth boat; but it was missed by the
umpire and most of the spectators. The race was
practically over for the bulk of the fleet when the
first five boats arrived at the Lightship. From that
point these five fought it out; and after various
vicissitudes, Murcia, sailed by J. Moppett, ran home
first, followed by Sydney, Planet, Rawene, and
Minoru, in that order, with less,than three minutes
separating the first from the fifth. So it was a close
thing.
* * * *
That mighty hustler and good adopted-
Australian, J. D. Williams, arrived back in Sydney
on Sunday, bringing with him as added attractions
for the Six Days’ Bike Racing Carnival the “Globe
of Death” and “Ride for Life” acts. In the Globe
of Death act, Mr. and Mrs. Stone ride motor-bikes at
a high speed round and round a steel globe 30ft. in
diameter. In the other, “Daredevil Kilpatrick’'
whizzes down a flight of 100 steps, set at an angle of
45 degrees. He has done it hundreds of times, and
expects to do it twice daily while the six days’ race
is running loose; but he will be a dead Patrick one
of these times. As for the steel-globe act, it is, ac-
cording to all accounts, absolutely hair-raising.
* * * *
The imminence of the Greater J. D. Wil-
liams Six Days’ race in Sydney lends an added
interest to the announcement that A. J. Clark,
the ex-Australian track champion, has, with Fogler
for a team mate, carried off the Six Days’ race at
New York. The distance covered by the winning
team was 2718 miles. Fogler, Clark’s team partner,
is a Yankee of the deepest dye. In one way it is a
matter of sorrow that Clark was in that event. But
for the fact that he had nominated for it, he would
have been seen on the Cricket Ground in the Sydney
Six Days’ upheaval.
* * * *
H. Long, a man of parts in the motor-
biking world, has done a deed of derring-do by
riding 40,037 miles round England in 10 months.
Roughly, Long has bumped and bounced over 1000
miles of England every week, and when one realises
that the distance from Land’s End to John-o’-Groats
in not 1000 miles by the straightest road, Long
must have gone in for a fair amount of repeti-
tion to establish his record. He used up 445 gallons
of petrol (which gives him an average of 90 miles
per gallon). 27 gallons of lubricating oil, five back
and three front tyres, and 13 driving belts. He
averaged only one puncture per month. This contract
was taken on merely to prove what the modern
motor bike can do, and was carefully authenticated
throughout. * * *
The modern generation of motorists is
beginning to nibble extensively at starting mechan-
isms, and to meet the demand several manufacturers
have already embodied “self-starting” contraptions
in their cars. And, in addition to those adopted
by makers quite a number of devices are being put
on the market independently. The advantage is
more visionary than real, as the “self-starting
mechanism” has to be started, and, if it goes wrong,
—and most of them show a tendency that way —
there’s more sweat and swear in five minutes than
the present antiquated way causes in a touring sea-
son.
The great international motor show at the
Olympia, London, was a roaring, thunderous success,
in which the world’s finest cars were shown to splen-
did advantage. Hitherto, quite a large portion of
the Olympia show has consisted of the various types
of naked chassis. This year the nude skeleton was
eliminated, and only the finished car displayed. Out-
wardly, the cars differed little from last year’s
models, but when one got down to details, the de-
velopment was amazing. Frames were practically
the same, but, ye gods, how the engine stroke has
elongated itself. The standard 15-h.p. engine for
1911 had an 80-millimetre bore and 120-millimetre
stroke. In the 1912 models the bore remains the
same, but the stroke has been lengthened to anything
from 130 to 160 millimetres. In one case it shot out
to 170 millimetres-—and not for racing howlers
either, but steady, respectable touring cars. The
silent chain is booming also, and nearly half the cars
shown had their timing-gear chain-driven, and in
some cases the speed change-gears were also chain-
worked. The sleeve-valve shows an increase, but the
bulk of the makers have pinned their faith to the
poppet valve. The point is, that when a sleeve valve
goes bung, it is a case of complete breakdown,
whereas, when a poppet valve kicks over the traces,
another can be inserted in about five minutes. Ad-
mittedly, sleeve valves don’t often go wrong; but
the fact remains that when they do, it is a complete
knock-out, which is not the case with the poppet.
The detachable wire wheel of the Dunlop and Rudge-
Whitworth type are almost universal on the English-
made cars, and the detachable wire wheel is threat-
ening to become standard. Certainly the wire wheel
is all right on roads, but for boodlers who sometimes
require to drive their cars over rough cross-country
tracks, it has its drawbacks. Still, cars are not
made for boodlers who have to leave decent roads.
The thermo-syphon cooling system shows an increase
in popularity, and the “gate” type of speed change
gear has become almost universal. A.lso, most of the
low-powered cars are now fitted with four speeds.
Minor improvements and alterations have been made
in the lubricating systems, and also in the mag-
netos and the spring suspension. So, altogether,
there is a considerable gulf fixed between the cars of
1911 and 1912. But this must be said, no matter
what the 1912 ear proves itself to be, the ears of
1911 were not too bad, and great is the fun we have
therein.
* » * *
When there was nobody in Australia with
much practical experience of aviation, the Common-
wealth Defence authorities offered £5OOO as a prize
for an Australian-built aeroplane, which was to do
things which no machine has ever done yet. Among
the list of necessary accomplishments was the ability
to poise, a condition which the ordinary aeroplane
could never fill. What the Defence people wanted
was a machine which should combine the qualities
of the aeroplane and heliocoptre. An aeroplane is a
machine which is lifted by the resistance and pressure
of the air against its inclined planes. It rises hori-
zontally, and to keep up must keep going, for if it
stops the pressure on the inclined planes ceases, and
the machine falls. A heliocoptre is a machine which
is lifted by vertical propellers, and rises perpen-
dicularly. This machine can poise to the extent of
remaining practicallv stationary at a given height.
But it has a tendency to drift sideways, owing to the
influence of the air currents, ,iust as a steamer with
its engines stopped will drift with the tide. The
trouble with heliocoptres has so far been that nobody
has been able to arrange for satisfactory horizontal
propulsion when the height was attained. Several
daring experimenters soared in this type of machine
without having any machinery to drive them horizon-
tally, and made their progress by setting their planes
at an angle which made it necessary to travel several
hundred yards to fall a foot or so. But this was
generally regarded as a failure. Had the heliocoptre
been developed, it would have been the invaluable
and ideal fighting machine; and the Commonwealth
Defence people, who were evidently well posted, were
anxious that the Australian aerial fighting machine
should be some modification of it. But the machine
didn’t transpire, and the prize is not now available.
This country is not lagging behind in the matter
of aviation ; it is simply not in it. Yet there is_ a
very large amount of talent waiting to be exploited.
Present writer knows at least five men who have
built their own machines and successfully flown
them ; but at present they do not get the least en-
couragement. In Europe and America there is big
money to be made by air work, and a small army of
men is engaged continually on fresh feats and ex-
periments. In Australia we have plenty of genius to
invent and ambition to achieve, but no means of
doing so. And offering a big money prize for an
Australian aeroplane or hel : ocoptre will not do much
good. Inventors are usually poor men, and it takes
a lot of money to build and equip a sky The
Commonwealth Government intends to spend £4OOO
either in establishing an aviation school or in send-
ing selected officers abroad to be trained in aeronau-
tics. Which, though good, is not nearly enough.
What is wanted is to encourage aeronautic develop-
ment here. The Australian with ideas stands on a
different footing from the same individual in France
or the United States. In France, the poor man with
an idea has a lot of chances. Firms, like that of
Voisin, keep special experts, whose sole work is to
go into ideas submitted by brainy enthusiasts, and
test them thoroughly. If they are - successful, the
man who supplies the idea is well paid. What is
wanted in Australia is a school of aviation, backed
up by a factory, where impecunious inventors could
take their ideas and have them developed if they
showed any promise. This would give the inventor
a chance to make good, unless he was so utterly
hard-up that he couldn’t pay his tram-fare to the
factory. It might bring forth quite a rush of in-
ventive talent, out of which might be evolved one
day the perfect aerial battleship.
The Turco-Dago trouble in Tripoli was
the first occasion on which the aeroplane was used
in actual warfare. But all the same, the Dago, who
passes for a white man, won from the Chow only by
a very short nose. It was only, about a week or so
after the Dago aviator had dropped bombs on the
position held bv the Turks and Arabs at Tripoli, that
a Yankee-trained Chinese reconnoitred Purple Moun-
tain, outside Nankin, by aeroplane, and was able to
tell the investing rebels where the defence was weak.
The rebels acted on the advice, and as a result General
Chang, the whole-hog Manchu, was driven out of the
ancient capital. It is a weird circumstance that the
most modern development of transportation only
missed by a hair’s-breadth first being used in actual
warfare of the heathen Chinee. Makes one almost
reconciled to the Italian robbery in Tripoli.
* * * *
The Australians knocked a terrific hole
in their fielding manners in the first Test match at
Sydney. So bad in patches was the Australian Xl’s
field work that the average “barracker” would almost
have been justified in’ howling “schlenter.” as he
usually does when things seem unreasonably bad and
awkward. If Australia is to retain its grip upon
the ashes, a big buck-un on the part of the fielding
will be urgently necessary. A team that gives away
the glory through sheer carelessness, as the Aus-
tralian XI did in the first Test, is bound to get left
in the end.
Trumper’s effort in the first Test bumped
his tally in Test matches to 2121, put together in
66 innings, and placed him in a niche that very few
players reach. Standing on his record of six cen-
turies in Test matches, Trumper looms up a regular
Goliath among cricketers.
* * * *
Captain Clem Hill’s batting was the
soundest on the Australian side during the first Test,
and the 46 and 65 (111 aggregate) suggest that the
lessening of the poundage, which but lately stretched
his belt, has been conducive to nimbleness and clarity
of vision. Trumper, however, thanks to the only
century in the match, headed the aggregate of both
teams with 127 (113 and 14) ; while Roy Mranett
also passed the three-figure limit, by compiling 90
and 17. On Australia’s behalf, Whitty and Cotter,
with 0 and 9, and 6 and 2 respectively, were the
only men who failed to put up double figures. Even
reliable Sundries piled up doubles for Australia, with
26 and 20, and aided the M.C.C. with eight and 23.
The batting efforts of the youngsters, J. W.
Hearne and R. W. Foster, were the shining spots
for the M.C.C. in the first Test. Hearne’s 76 and
43 were forcibly banged together, while Foster s
little contributions of 56 and 21 were put up in an
elegant style. The patient and funereal J. B. Hobbs
took a long time to compile 63 and 22, and the bal-
ance of the team played with a great dreariness,
which suggested that they were under the impression
that cricket is a game in which the batsman allows
the leather to smite the bat. As a matter of fact,
the bat is supposed to smite the leather; but till the
M.C.C. realise this fact, cricket will continue to
be deadly dull.
* * * *
S.A. is going to repay a bit of its cricket
indebtedness to N.S.W. for O'Connor, Whitty and
Webster. “Solly” Hill —“Solly” isn’t his real name,
but even the newspapers never call him anything else
—is about to be transferred to Sydney as a matter
of business promotion, and expects to play for North
Sydney. This item is not as important as it would
have been two vears back. Then “Solly” seemed to
have a big future as a batsman—a “right-handed
Clem,” some said ; but he has not kept up that pro-
mise, and his place even in the State XI has lately
been in danger.
* * * *
The Davis Cup meeting .commenced at
Christchurch (M.L.) on Saturday, in raw and unsuit-
able weather, which worried the players and kept the
crowd awav. Only preliminary games were disposed
of. Brookes and Heath, the Australian reps., who
had entered for the Singles, scratched. Which, under
the circumstances, was wise. Beals Wright and
McLoughlin, the Amurkan reps., met Butterworth
and Wilding in the Doubles, and smashed them up,
winning all three sets. The first and the last were easy
ones —6-2 and 6-1. In the middle set the Austra-
lasians put up a struggle, but eventually went under
by 7-5. Wright’s play is described as unusually re-
liable, and McLoughlin’s as brilliant, but somewhat
erratic.
* * * *
Westralian swimmer E. Findlay is having
a regular harvest among the ’Groper championships.
Within five days he gathered the 100yds. in lmin.
5 l-Bsec.; 220yds. in 2min. 46sec.; and the 100yds.
breast-stroke championship in lmin.. 13 3-ssec., and
also a 100yds. handicap. Charge your glassy!
“Billy Blue”: The pigeon-murderers who
hail forth so gaily to their carnival of cruelty do not
confine their savagery to the vicinity of the traps.
They must be in good form for the “Gun Club’s An-
nual Shoots.” Therefore, for weeks beforehand,
many of these “sportsmen,” who live in the country
or in country towns, hie them to the bush and fields,
and bring down every bird, from a grass-bird to a
jackass, that is unfortunate enough to take wing
within range. On Grafton (N.S.W.) racecourse, for
instance, I have seen heaps of little finches, known
locally as barley birds, which have been ruthlessly
slaughtered by the cowardly pot-hunters —men who,
as a general rule, wouldn’t join a rifle club to save
their country from the Devil or even the Asiatic.
Since a recent reference to the matter in Tiie Bulle-
tin, I’ve been waiting for the great Stiggins family
to hammer at Premier McGowen’s door, and ask him
what he thinks of these murderers of helpless fowl,
but apparently Stiggins is still overcome by the bru-
tality of pillow-fights.
* * * *
“Owing to the success of Meringue, Myra-
bluan, Britain, and Flaxen, the members of the ring
left the course with the balance of accounts in their
favor.” So wrote the Sydney Telegraph scribe of
the A.J.C. December meeting. While a close ring
of bookmakers, some members of which own certain
horses, and some of which own an interest in cer-
tain horses, and some of which square jockey boys,
trainers, etc., to work things which will suit the
said ring, and while all the money invested on losers
goes into the pockets of a close ring of gentlemen
who lay mighty short odds, The Bulletin flatly de-
clines to recognise horse-racing at Randwick as
sport. It is a gambling, market-rigging business
entirely, and any news relating to it should appear
in the “Wild Cat” column, and not the Sporting
page. The present editor declines to touch it. Con-
sidering the company he keeps, the Financial Editor
may—it is his look-out.
At one time every fashionable house in
Australia boasted “servants.” But the
word might almost be struck out of the dic-
tionary now. Demosthenes, the great sun-
bather, probably would not have minded
being called by the name, but none of his
philosophic, descendants inhabit Australia.
Occasionally the immigrant ship brings a
load of girls who are not ashamed of the
label; but in a few weeks something or
other turns them, too, into “domestic helps”
or “maids.” They don’t mind in the least
being either of these things, but they won’t
be servants any more. The great domes-
tic problem hinges largely on a name, and
harassed housewives are quite willing to
concede that a Rose by any other designa-
tion may be worth the wages.
SCIATICA.
HUSBAND DERIVED GREAT BENE-
FIT FROM DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT FILLS, SAYS PYRMONT
LADY.
“I have had recourse to Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills,” says Mrs. W. Cox, 187
Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont, “for Indigestion
and Constipation; also for very bad head-
aches and pains in the back, like a knife
thrust, when breathing. My husband has
also taken them for Sciatica, and he finds
they are the only things to give him relief,
after trying many other remedies without
effect. He would get such bad attacks that
stooping was impossible, and we had to put
his boots on for him. He is quite well now,
but he always has them handy, and ttr-regu-
late the system he occasionally takes a dose
on retiring at night, which keeps him in
perfect health. You may use this for any
purpose suitable.”


I
81
Turn
This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
“THE
MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
Self-Filling PEN.
A self-filling Fountain
Pen that gives better ser-
vice and no trouble in
filling. This you will find
in the “MODE K N”
AUTOMATIC SELF-
F I L LING FOUNTAIN
PEN. Simply twist end,
hold pen in ink, untwist,
and the pen fills itself.
Guaranteed against leak-
age, as there are no
joints. Made in both
plain and fancy holders
and a large assortment of
nibs. Costs no more than
the ordinary fountain pen.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents for
Australasia.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write for trade prices.
They will interest you.
If It isn’t an “ A.A.” It
Isn’t a “MODERN.”
*
L
O
o
Every pen has a point.
Here are eleven points you
ought to remember;
The first is the Onoto fills
itself in a flash from any
ink supply.
The second is it cannot
leak.
The rest are “To get an
Onoto now” —for posses-
sion is nine points, says
the law.
Get an Onoto pen, and know what
writing comfort really is.
Your own pen, suited to your hand,
wherever you may happen to bo.
Onoto
Pen
Self-Filling • •
Safety Fountain
Price 12/- and upwards, at all
Stationers, Stores, Jewellers, Ac.
British made by British labour.
Booklet free on application to Thos.
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 195 Buphill
Row, E.C., or the Australasian Repre-
sentative, Norman Baker, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Important. —For those who require a larger
pen with a very flexible nib, a special model
- the new G—has been put on the market.
It is exceptional value for the money. Try
this new G at your stationer’s
Always use ONOTO INK—the beet for
fountain and all other pens.
Legal.
THE PRACTICE of a SOLICITOR,
now being carried on by Mr. E. O.
PROSSER, at Maclean, Clarence River, and
elsewhere in N.S.W., will in future be
carried on under the name of PROSSER
& CO. The Maclean office will be under
the management of Mr. H. R. BARNIER
(late of Sydney), Solicitor, and the South
Grafton office will be under the manage-
ment of MR. E. O. PROSSER. Dated
this 4th day of December, 1911. E. O.
PROSSER, Solicitor.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND, WELLINGTON DIS-
TRICT.
IN THE MATTER of The Ad-
ministration Act 1908
and
IN THE MATTER of The Public
Trust Office Act 1908
and
IN THE MATTER of the Will of
THOMAS LANGDON late of
Christchurch in the Provincial
District of Canterbury, But-
cher, deceased.
Before His Honor The Chief Justice
Saturday the 18th day of November, 1911.
UPON READING the petition of the
Public Trustee of the Dominion of New
Zealand and the affidavit verifying the same
respectively filed in this Court AND upon
hearing Mr. J. W. Macdonald Counsel for
The Public Trustee IT IS ORDERED that
The Public Trustee be and he is hereby
authorised on the assumption that ALBERT
FRANCIS LANGDON son of the above-
named deceased is dead to distribute his
reserved share under the aforesaid Will as
if the said ALBERT FRANCIS LANG-
DON had died intestate and unmarried.
By the Court,
(The Seal of The G. S. CLARK, ;
Supreme Court: — Deputy Registrar.
New Zealand.)
Public Notice.
TONGKAH HARBOR TIN DRcDGING CO., N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the quarterly
dividend (the fifth) of 10%, and a bonus
of 15%, a total of five shillings per share, amounting
to £37,500, clear of Dividend Tax, is payable on
January 22, 1912, and for this purpose the Share
Register will be closed from January 13 to January
22, 1912, inclusive.
H. J. WISE,
Hobart, December 18, 1911. Manager.
GROONGAL PASTORAL COMPANY
LIMITED AND REDUCED.
NOTICE is hereby given that a petition
for confirming a resolution reducing
the capital of the above Company from
£350,000 to £322,000 was on the 20th day
of December instant presented to the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
Equity and is now pending and that the
list of creditors is to be made out as for the
first day of February 1912.
METCALFE & DANGAR,
Solicitors to the Company,
10 Bligh Street, Sydney.
ASTHMACURE
BHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
ft Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
£ relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR*
I ? ETTF.S. fn d bri hi/ <-
' i.
-
V
m
■
csss
' -.■>
*
(Sfelebpteu
MAW
WHESAR
BREWED from
malted BAR't-EY
KfeRBROiCER'?
.
I& M’l »*•*)>
X' •
CHAMPION
■KM
f
ƒh
fh
fh
E
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Qpn-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent ' )
your
own
Cigarette
If
twice
os good j
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BBST at\A VBBBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
•Jacobs Bros. 255? George S? Sydney
Straightaway
woedcrftJy
M
hb
la- latfiaictd hy ike fad
(hat it • gathered froas Ml
•Mire* oaiy. So whe%
m« oak far m*at «P*nV
Cm* t»«v’SHELU-
OTICED the recent increase in the bulk of
The Lone Hand? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
will rush it. But it enables the proprietors to
give more reading matter for the same price—
Sixpence.
mss
PIANOS
High
Grade
*
CATA LOCOES ON APPXI CATION
J.Hess&C?
199 CLARENCES?
SYDNEY N SW.
and a» BRISBANE.
J.G.lrmler
'LEIPZIG
Emil Henning
STUTTGART
GebrKolski .
BERLIN
Carl Hess
I DRESDEN
riIHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
fh
L I O U EUR. ]
BENEDICTINE
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Ganuinm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
1/I*, 2/9 * 4/6. Made in England.
sw ervf*
Acts like aTcharm In
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectual! y
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Beet Medicine for
BOUGHS, COLDB, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Let '
Murphy’s Pile Pills Cure You!
■
cr
o
8
e?
3?
2
§
05
O
Pll§®
ao.D.
S>
4
Ointments and outward applications seldom cure
Piles, but Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills do, unfailingly,
without operation, purging, pain, or inconvenience of any
bind.
They are a recognised safe, sure remedy for all
forms of Piles, and positive proof of their success is
shown in the testimonials wrapped round each box.
Try these famous Pills to-day. All progressive
chemists and storekeepers sell them at 3s. per box, or
they may be Obtained post free from the proprietors on
receipt of remittance.
SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ANDREW MURPHY, LTD.,
Dept. B> 109 Regent St.
SYDNLY.
The Corredt Shoe Styles.
The tnen who follow the styles closely are as easy
to please with pur footwear as' the man who thinks
less of style and more of comfort.
One gets style plus comfort —the other cOmfort plus
style.
They both get a quality that is not obtainable in
any other ready-to-wear footwear.
The shoe illustrated is a choice Tan Russian Calf
Oxford Shoe, Back Counter, Circular Vamp, Perfora-
tions, Fine stitched welts, 23/6, 25/-. Also, Dark
Tan Willow Calf Shoe, 18/6. In Lace Boots ditto;
also Black, 21/-, 25/-. Postage 9d. extra.
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR CATALOG.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exoluslve High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., Sydney,
and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney,
"jp-
00
o
DOUBLE
“Hop ” lias received the following mys-
terious communication by post:—
Deaf Hoss —I. S. is a roth in cl therl or ohist—•
oleene (t nok over a fi nr a tine 1 e al oh ould finis
to a dinable cops fir yous chins as tin ity & pictures
cm fi cure—Cel ava I ary din! (Signed) S.H.A.
Wliat “Hop” would like to know is, whether
this is a threatening letter, a suggestion for
a cartoon, or an application for the loan of
a half-crown? If the author will place the
matter in the hands of a typewriter and hire
some schoolboy to sign his name for him, he
may rest assured that “Hop.” will treat
the matter as strictly confidential.


GIFTS
FOR ALL.
SEWING COMPANION, containing 7
Useful Articles, Bone Handles, \ el-
vet-lined Case, 7/6-
H
“MARE AND FOAL” BRONZE ORNAMENT,
Height SJin, !«>/(»•
CLOTH BRUSH, Nickel, Richly
Embossed, Finest Bristles, 7 IQ.
Mckel SHAVING BRUSH, Fine
Duality, Badger Bristles, I/O,
1/9, 2/6, S/6, 5/6.
MANICURE SET, containing
Xylonite Articles, complete in
Case, S/6.
7 Useful
Silk-lined
Gent’s COMPANION', containing Razor,
Corn Knife, Tweezers, and Corkscrew,
Leather Casg, Gib-
Scissors,
in Solid
'/i
1
r-u:
WHOM
■I
,
■
■
Morocco Leather, Motor Bag, Leather Lined,
Strong Nickel Frame, Outside Pocket, 17/b
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY’S GREATEST NOVELTY HOUSE.
H
©
A.SAURBIRI
n 5
u
AiAUHdtSS
AVUNDns
II
pSfi
Nickel HAIR
BRUSH, Richly
Embossed, Extra
Long Bristles,
8/6-
SCISSOHS SET, Com-
prising 3 Pairs Em-
broidery Scissors,
Finest Sheffield Steel,
Solid Leather Case,
8/6-
Gent *b HAIR BRUSH, Real Ebony,
Silver Shield, Long White Bristles,
10/6-
Chain PURSE, Crocodile
Leather, Silver Mounts and
Lock, Chamois Lining, mXI-
Write Straight Away For Free
CATALOG OF LEATHER-
WARE. It’s Full of Delightful
Suggestions.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL GOODS
BUT CLOCKS AND CHINA.
1-DAY OAK TIMEPIECE, Richly Carved, Splendid
Timekeper, Guaranteed. 12/6-
DRESSING-TABLE SET, Nickel, Bevelled Glass Swing
Mirror, Hair and Cloth Brushes, 30/.
Rectangular
READING
GLASS, to suit
all sights, 2/6,
POST FREE,,
CIGAR CASE, Seal
Leather, Calf Lining,
Silver Mounts and Shield,
1 **/«.
INKSI'A'j
(J| Polished Nickel Mounts, Crystal Cl
Bottles, Solid Oak Base, 10/b-
Nickel TOILET
MIRROR, Richly
Embossed, Bevelled
Glass, s;6.
Oak TOBACCO JAR, Porcelain
China Lining, heavy Nickel
Plated Mounts and Shield, 7 /6-
TOBACCO POUCH, Buck-
skin, Silver Shield, Rubber
Lining, 4/6 Doeskin,
7/6; Kangaroo Skin, 6/6.
POCKET COUPAS
Brass Case, Paper
Dial, 1/6-
Powerful 3-draw Brass TELESCOPE, 14in Extended
Sin Closed, in Tan Leather Case,
1 ft/fi
PRACTICAL
PRESENTS.
FIELD GLASSES, Enamel Finished Frame,
Morocco Leather Covered, Achromatic
Lenses, Sharp Definition, 2 O/.
Including Case and Strap.
Fitted with Compass, 27/6-
BRONZE ORNAMENT, Height OJin,
15/6-
Morocco
Leather
SPECTAC
CASE,
Silver
Mounts,
20/
Nickel SHAVING SI AND,
Comprising Porcelain Bowl,
Box, and Puff, Shaving Brush,
and 2 Shaving Casps (razors
not included), 15/6.
Hand KiT BAGS, Square Opening, Nickel
Lock, and Lid Clips, Cloth Lined,
12/6 14/6 15/6 17/6.
12in 14in 16in 18in.
SMOKEI'i- ’ t Comprising highly polislie
Tobacco Jar, Pipe Kack, Match Holder, and
Glass Ash Tray. Pipes not included.
d Nickel
[ Crystal
1%/6
JEWELLER/
L MAKER
a
‘SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER. ..
BQ7 809.811.815.ai5.817. CEORCrST: ( Oppoait* Railww Stahoa) SYDNEY,Hjjjt
SILVERSMITH
c OfISULT//Vc
CoPTICIANJ


BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Gist Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Sd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys ok Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures or a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s od. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, !)d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellgnts), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks wmf Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
m
m
■I
HOME CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR " PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS I REE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and oi.t of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjot r married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to < lispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATIS! ACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
S»“ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
“■B
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Js ; ppst Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, lg 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.Asy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
fcKLF Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, <fe
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d, French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
orh rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Kecipks, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne. Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No F/iatter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying’ more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, gmr Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS AD.VT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. ’
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Sta-e U
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, is. Sappho, genuine
is. Old Busii Soros, Is 3d Dost, 1)r. Milpord’s Mid-
wipe s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the King
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court op England, is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Ke\' to all
Denrees, New Edition, Is posted. ’Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
dipk, 3s fid posted. Wonderpul Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s each posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar!
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipe’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1«00 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing! Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages cloth
bound, 1 0s fid posted. The Secrets op Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music corn!
Plete), Is 6d posted. The Age op Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
E-,
V
73
S 3
1
%
32
The
Good
Samaritan
JUST
IN
TIME
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS and COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES
PRESERVE YOUR BEAUTY.
S^ USt «T ali^.Clim^ te . is n °ted for its deleterious effects upon the complexion;
m ™ ness > Pimples and other blemishes are likely to make their ap-
P ance unless something is done as a deterrent. There is nothing like
[CILMA Fluor Cream,
cream without grease,” for keeping the skin healthy and beautiful. It
named in A1 S eria * and is therefore rightly
nnf«licfl A^F RE . S REMEDY” A little rubbed on the face BEFORE going
woman’s aim \nd p^'^SamplelSe.ld in" stamps.
ICILMA DEPOT, Dept. D, J 39 York Street, Sydney.
fh
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containiftg upwards of Three hundred
o( “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bollxtin size
Price, 21m. . .
Ill®
□
'r^
m
»
9,
a
Oft
3
gaarmicj
CI
THE
Alcock Bijou Billiard Table
is constructed essentially for home use, and affords life-
time enjoyment. Both you and your friends derive
constant pleasure from it, besides giving an added induce-
ment to stay home, which you will find hard to resist.
No need then to go out for your game of Billiards. Think
how much better this is. Alcock’s “Bijou” is the recog-
nised “Home” Billiard Table, and is favored so highly
because of its superior construction and perfect playing
qualities. Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth.
397 George St., Sydney.
114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Lower Cuba St.. Wellington.
THE BESSES O’ THE
POCKET,
The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
CRACKAJACK^
(SENIOR)
Built to Beat the Band
•I The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are Tun-d to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth Organs
J MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds ... 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds . . . 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds . . Ij.
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/.
Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYW HERE
-ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Sole Agents
Melbourne
THE LONE HAND
A. Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
fh


Chest Cold
was cured by
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
when other treatments fail-
ed. Mrs. J. Lennis, 60
Susan Street, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W., writes that:
“ Other preparations having failed to do
any good, I gave Scott’s Emulsion to
my daughter, Winifred, aged
10 months, who suffered
from a severe chest cold, and
was very thin and delicate.
After a few doses, she seemed
much brighter, and her
cough was less severe, and
now, after only a short
course of ‘Scott’s,’ her
cold has disappeared, and
she has grown quite fat and strong. ”
dfhd
Instead of wasting time,
risking health and therefore
life, with preparations which
fail, give Scott’s Emulsion
at once. Scott’s MUST
help. This CERTAINTY
should be worth to you
many times the price of
Scott’s Emulsion. No
other emulsion has ever re-
ceived the cordial approval
of the medical and nursing
professions the world over,
for preserving children’s
lives. Therefore, don't ask
for “ emulsion ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
DR. SCHEUBLE,
the discoverer of the
SAMOL
Treatment of Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
Eczema, etc., has received the highest recognition it
is possible for a Medical Man to get, viz., the nrst
award of the Vienna Chamber of Science.
Samol is a Scientific Preparation, endorsed and
used by some of the most famous Doctors of the day.
Samol is prepared in tubes, price 3/9 and 6/-, and
can be ordered through any Chemist, or post free
direct from Wholesale Representative, H. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Brisbane; or
branches- 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9 to 15 Stock Exchange Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaws Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson s Buildings, Wellesley
Street’ East, Auckland.
Dr. Scheuble’s remedy is also prepared m tablet
form for internal use by those preferring this method
to outward application. Price, 3/6 post free. f 2
LA FRANCE.
french liquid cosmetic.
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau
tifying and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com
nlexion. It is most
’ beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/= Obtain-
able from MADAME
, LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale : DTTETUMN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
1
THE
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99-101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
|4 GRAND PRIX
Pdßis ST LPuis
TURIN ROUBdiX
The Celebrated
ichiedmayet^
.Pianos *
AN
IDEAL TONIC
When your head is dull and heavy, your tongue furred, your
bowels costive, When you feel done-up and good-for-nothing,
FOR THE
STOMACH
AND LIVER
have no appetite, no energy, no
interest, no ambition, your stomach
and liver are out of order. But
Mother Seigel’s Syrup will set you
right. It will clear your head and
clean your tongue, renew your appetite, tone up your stomach,
stimulate the action of your bowels, make food nourish you,
and give you -new strength, new energy, new life.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP
TAKE IT DAILY AFTER MEALS.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS
MACHINES
Produce an Absolutely
Perfect Light,
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels and Billiard Saloons.
The following are some of the users:
mi
nil
® t
NEW SOUTH WALES RAILWAYS AND PUBLIC
WORKS DEPARTMENTS.
MR. L. A. DANGAR, N.S.W.
MR. D. COPLAND, N.S.W.
MR. J. LONERAGAN, N.S.W.
MR. DAVID F. GIBB, N.S.W.
MESSRS. ALFRED SIIAW, LTD., Q LAND.
NESTLE & ANGLO-SWioS C.M. CO. FACTORY, Q.
MESSRS. MCDONALD BROS., QUEENSLAND.
MR. A. N. MACKAY, QUEENSLAND.
VICTORIAN RAILWAY DEPARTMENTS.
COMMONWEALTH HOME AFFAIRS DEI ART-
MENT, VIC.
SIR JOHN MADDEN, VIC.
MR. H. ALAN CURRIE, VIC.
MR H. W. GPTMAVADE. VIC.
MR. GORDON CHIRNSIDE, VIC.
MR. ERNEST AUSTIN. VIC.
MAJOR C. CAMPBELL, VIC.
MESSRS. CIIAS. ATKINS & CO., S. AUST.
MR. M. S. HAWKER, S. AUST. -
MR. MCKENZIE GRANT. W. AUST.
MR. J. E. THOMPSON, W. AUST
MESSRS. STANFORD & JOHNSON, W. AUST.
MESSRS. HERLEY BROS., W. AUST.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with
No 61 OFFENSIVE ODOR. NON-EXPLOSIVE.
BURNERS.
NO IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE
simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
For Further Particulars and Catalogues apply to DISTRIBUTING AGENTS—
SYDNEY : Hannams, Ltd.
MELBOURNE : Philips ®. PiKe.
ADELAIDE s Chas. AtKins ®. Co. Ltd.
PERTH s AlcocK (El Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE * E. Rich (El Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON s W. Reid (El Co., Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
m
m
-
m
tm
B
m
23! Clarence Street. Sydney,
robber couu
: AND ALL STATES
BY SPECIAL APPOINTHENT
TO HIS EXCELLENCY
THE GOYERNOR-GEtIERAL.
JUST OUT.
Price. 12/6 Posted. 13/'
DROVERS’ GUIDE
By P. R. GORDON,
Late Chief Inspector of Stock ana Brands, Queensland
Containing the latest Stock Route Maps of New South
Wales and Queensland, the new Queensland Maps
containing Stock Routes, Tanks and Dams, Main Roads,
Border Crossing Places, Bores, Trucking Yards, etc.
WATSON, FERGUSON & Co. Ltd. BRISBANE
hfd
“SHE STOOPS TO CORN-CURE”
and succeeds with one bottle of
“Kornkura”—sure cure for the
worst corns on toe or under foot.
Also, cures warts. Send Postal Note
or any Id. Australian stamps for
price (one shilling), and get Korn-
kura, post paid, with full direc-
tions. STAR NOVELTY CO., 103
‘ Cambridge Building, 195 Collins
Street, Melbourne. -
H HORSE GAGS
SHARPE’S GAGS are made from American design,
in Sheffield, of Steel.
Are heavily Nickel-plated, and complete with
TWO PATRS of PLATES and BRIDLES.
Are fte most PRACTICAL, STRONGEST, and
DURABLE GAGS on the market. _
Can be released by hand when horses jaws are
AffonTample exposure for EXAMINATIONS
and Operations. • .*.l
Satisfaction or Money Back.
WRITE FOR KNIFE
AND VET. LIST.
460
Post
‘Fi'ee.
SHARPE & SHARPE,
18 Bridge Street, Sydney. *
*
.j mi
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
Lex: You ask us to “mention some of
those books which it would be advisable for one
who proposes to do some short story writing to
study.” It is like requesting a person to indicate
a few of the most useful words in Webster s dic-
tionary. Poe’s Stories, R. L. Stevenson s New
Arabian Nights,” Henry Lawson s sketches, Conan
Dovle’s “Under the Red Lamp,” the Bible, Wheat-
ley’s edition of “Pepys’s Diary,” Casanova s memoirs
- any or all of these should provide something Bug-
gestive or useful for one in your sad state.... JVLui -
rinji: Pars, are never acknowledged. Curse you toi
forcing us to re-state this ancient truth. . .. Pilot:
Not enough meat in your items.. . .L.K.r.: me
gentle south wind blew them both into the basket.
.. . .Wanderlied: Unsuitable. .. ..LW. : Not a grin
in it. .. .D. Sydney: Too slight. . . .Alec B.: Swapped
the dogs for a drink.... Bellerive: For the time ot
gladness and good resolutions: —
A NEW YEAR EVE CRIME IN LONDON.
’Twas New Year Eve in London
CrQwds wended to and fro
When a female’s gory body
Lie stretched upon the snow
A young, ill-fated victim
Of a cruel bloodthirsty crime
As the bells of London city
On New year eve did chime
The hardened police did shudder
As they raised the body from the ground
And dispersed the startled people
Whom had eagerly gathered round
Where was the grim assassin
Of the foul and ghastly crime
In the shadow of the city
As the bells did merrily chime.
A.L.D-M.: Your pen doesn’t move fast enough
in a westerly wind. Better wait for a strong south-
erly Luna C.K. : No W.N. (W.A.) : She seems
to be too stylish altogether to be dressed in mere
print.... Pilgrim: Sorry not sufficient value....
Chook: Can’t understand the position from your
brief remarks. If the Perth publication had such
good prospects, why did it shut down on them ?. . . .
J.P.M.: Regret the information isn’t available....
M.G. : The bird doesn’t twitter any fresh news....
Wake: One version is enough. Always attach your
full name and address to copy. You don’t inhabit
all Adelaide, do vou? W.D.G.: A good try
C.T.N.: He may sit down and rest in this column: —
AN EXILE FROM HOME.
Mark him cruise through the city brawny butt for
the witty .
While the spumes of an ocean, all its tides strong in
motion
Jet and eddy him around —
Daze, bewilder, confound.
Not the loud-humming babel of the Human Hive
able ; „ , .
Not the “see-yellow” hustle, nor the fashion craze
’To his heart brings response
Or can tap its deep fonts.
All the world rushing by as if doom beckoned nigh
Like a corpse leave him lone, in a sphere not his
own —
In a rapt solitude
Where no voice can intrude.
Hear him tilt at tradition: “Call it life? It’s per-
dition!”
Sorry exile from home who the Far-back would roam
Where the curlews wild wail
Mounts like smoke on the gale.
And the dirge-howl of dingo, the opossums cracked
lingo
Beaky laughing jackass spilling octaves of brass
Nasal grunts of koala
Belching accents of tallow.
There the flame-cloud horizon he projects loving eyes
on
Rocking forest and bush make his blood warm and
gush
And the cattle’s long moan
Sobs its way to his bone.
E.R.: We don’t know whether the furious lady
is married, single or widowed. Anyhow, you know
her town, and should have no difficulty in interview-
ing her on behalf of your unionist friend, who wants
to find another helpmeet who will scream “Scab!”
in times of industrial unrest, and make the tyran-
nical capitalist’s blackleg unhappy with her feet. .. .
F.H.L.: Well-meaning verse. .. .B.G. (N.S.W.) : Not
humorous enough.... Understudy: Both fail with a
crash M.C. (V.): You dream cheerfully:—
A DREAM ON WERRIBEE.
I dreamt I was back at Parwan
I was writeing poetry
I had come down from the Barwon
To dream on Werribee.
I was back with my old pard
Was speakng to Violet and Earme
I was a jungle Bard
1 was writeing prose and poetry.
And gathering wild flowers
On banks of Werribee
Watching the morning showers
In dreamy reverie.
1 I had a little boat
It was moored under a willow tree
In it I rowed and* wrote
And' laughed and sang with glee.
I sailed it over the phantom lakes
And round a miniature sea
And through the waves and foaming flakes
On to the Werribee.
I dreamt I done my best
But somehow my verses wouldn t gee
I thought I had a rest
A dream on Werribee.
H.H.: The wilted rhyme shows a gleam of pro-
mise. You must whet your pen a little on the edge
of the basket G.J.: Too sketchy. Another writer
recently did an article on that cattle-raising region.
Pul: You haven’t.worked it up to print level. Try
voiir hand at another, and put this idea on the shelf
for a spell 0.J.0.: Don’t care for the triolet.
Possibly we are unsympathetic brutes; but we were
roused to sudden anger by the statement that The
Drettv dimples on her cheeks have filled my mind
for just six weeks”.. . .J.R.D.: There is the grinning
-skeleton of a good yarn in it. >Fin Me.: Illuminated
adddress to the Morning Star-superfluous. Never try
to flatter a star by comparing it to an Eastern Queen ;
some Eastern queens are fat and ugly. .. - H.F. (Ade-
laideV In the words of Quinn It s hardly a subiect
for laughter.”.... Cardington: You shove your MS.
half-way to the basket by omitting to attach your
name and address... .Horace H.': Lament ruthlessly
silenced. '
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
T t r ; The legs and topknot of the girl who is
making the' remarks to the thin schoolmistress are
good likewise the back hair of the schoolmistress.
The remark is quite worn out... .R.L.M.: One gag is
so bad that we suspect it of being original. The
aHi nr is a steal. (N.B. —The sketches are original.)
WHS - Picture of unknown post-leaner, doing
nothing, saying nothing, and amounting to nothing.
No thanks.... Quiz: Do you- intend it to be under-
stood that the artist got the black eye while sub-
mitting the drawing, and, if so, how and where and
from whom? On the other hand if the black eye
was a separate and previous episode, what has it to
do with the case?... .S.T.: If it is a joke it is a
poor one, and if it isn’t a joke, what is it?....N..
Just missed the ’bus by the skin of the back step, sq
to speak ...Wells: Can’t stand the shape of the two
sailors .. .Lance M.: Don’t care for either picture or
idea The £500,000 alluded to wouldn’t have bought
more than a loaf apiece for the poor, anyhow....
A K • Labored effort. The one thing yoiThave man-
aged to get in is the effect of illimitable distance and
unbounded blankness Jessie (VM.: It Bas the fhis-
fortunc to look too much like a copy.


PORE, SOLUBLE,
Easily digested and highly
nourishing
USE NO OTHER.
Delicious flavor. Of
all grocers and store-
keepers.
Try it.
Ask your grocer for a gratis
Van Houten Novelty.
Van
HOUTEN’S
cocot
cheap, because
a little goes
a long
way.
Poring the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
8 5 0
5 10 0
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading 1
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at lOOyds. Trial
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast, cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial
3 10 0 1 17
6 10 0 4 17 6
0 0
7 10
15 0
13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
tSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers.
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
fhdfh
MELTONIAN
CREAM
(in Black
and White)
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots & Shoes.
LUTETIAN
CREAM
(made in light
and
dark colours)
for all kind* of BROWN
Leather Boots & Shoe*.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Mtde by the Manufacturers of the cele-
brated “Meltonian” Boot Polishe*.
E. BROWN & SON. LTD.,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Bibendum on Tyre Fashions
{continued).
TO
£
FOR MILLIONAIRES.
IV"U-\N\V.N>
FOR ENGLISHMEN.
FOR IRISHMEN.
m
FOR SCOTSMEN.
FOR WELSHMEN.
' \\
FOR ROAD HOGS.
NOT FOR LIBERALS.
FOP PEERS
Assuming that fancy pattern treads are good, why
shouldn’t the idea be elaborated.
Here are a few suggestions. None of the accom-
panying designs is copyrighted, and we give any tyre
manufacturer free permission to adopt either one or all
of them. What splendid advertising points they
would afford !
The “ Veto ” pattern all-rubber non skid, for instance
would make, for political motorists, an excellent souvenir
of the great fight ; and “national emblem ” tyres would
undoubtedly have a large sale.
Why do you fit your wheels with fancy pattern tyres ?
To prevent skidding and breaking your neck.
After about one thousand miles, however, the
pattern is worn flat and your safety is problematical.
The question resolves itself into this : if grooves
and knobs are useful, they must last until the tyre, and
not yourself, is defunct. But the trouble is, they don’t.
Therefore, solve the difficulty by purchasing a Michelin
“ Semelle ” Non-Skid.
If, on the other hand, all sculptural effects are
useless, why fit such tyres ? Better by far buy a
Michelin Square Tread, which lasts longer and always
gives satisfaction.
meaamm
UN
STOCKED BY ALL THE LEADING GARAGES.
Valuable alike Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥf
dhf
VICE-REGAL
hf
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs,
161 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6.
Puffs, Pin Curls and All Accessories always in Stock.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Fringes from 7/6.
Combings made up.
’Phone 2138 Central.
dfh
ON TNE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
sMWi'
MlD'ij
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
(COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
Inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Eack Capsale bears the aaac E*
mt


c
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Relief Permanent Cure.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
surely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress— cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
9
Her Youth
sk
4ft
823 K
DrfcAtLENS
11./ c U.S.AJ
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
flon’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Fiat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
44 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF YOU CARRY A
6*
aWAN
rauNT
pkm .
you are always ready to “jot it
down.” The “SWAN” has
no intricate or delicate parts
—consequently it never
gets out of order, and is
always ready to write
without adjusting or
coaxing. Good for
a lifetime.
dfh
Sold by
Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free
from
MABIE, TODD S CO.,
LONDON, or
JAS. A. BURKE
(Wholesale Only),
15 WALTHAM BUILDING,
24 Bond Strest, Sydney, N.S.W.
saWell, of course
Anything worth doing B
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:al Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
The Queen
OF
AP°
llif
dfi s
Table Waters.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable from All Chemists.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at Pd.
per pac et. \\ hen you have sold the cards, return us our s., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you mav choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. cv continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
nan return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
fh
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. \Y e are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer, he the first in your district, uur post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 «*> ST., SYDNEY.
POEHLS SPERMIN ESSENCE
PERMINUM is the natural source ot health and vital strength
isolated and puiihed from organic bases. In the form of the
Essence, Spermin acts as a Reviver of Vital Energy, and
so stimulates healthy body juices which resist disease and retard vital
decline. Nervous Breakdown, Fatigue from Overwork, and
Mental and Physical Exhaustion, brought about by Over-
indulgence in Athletics will find a corrective in Poehl’s Spermin
Essence. It is of special Curative Value in all Disorders of the
Blood, the Nerves, and the Heart.
Sold in Original Bottles under the Warranty of the Organo-Therapeutio
Institute of Professor Von Poohl & Sons.
LITERATURE SENT ON APPLICATION TO STOCKHOLDERS
C. H. SMITH & Co.,
22, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co..
MELBOURNE.
ROCKE TOMPSITT & Co.,
MELBOURNE.
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
F. H. FAULDING & Co., 313. Murray Street PERTH, W.A.
fh
TENTS AND WATERBAGS.
The "ABERDEEN” BRAND
MEANS SATISFACTION.
Honest quality, both of mater-
ial and workmanship safeguard
the interest of every buyer of
“Aberdeen” Brand Tents and
Waterbags.
The name “Aberdeen” is regis-
tered, and all goods must be up
to our high standard before they
bear that brand.
Send for our Catalogue.
SMITH, COPELAND & CO. LTD.,
204*206 Clarence St..
SYDNEY.
AGENTS —BRISBANE : H. J. H. Ross, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
VICTORIA: J. Bartram & Son, King 1 Street, BOTANY.
S. AUSTRALIA : C. Whiting, Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA: Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, HOBART.
QUEENSLAND: WALTER REID & CO., ROCKHAMPTON, Q.
Bio Showmen
Operate the
SILENT EMPIRE
Here is the final word in Biograph
Machines —embodying every latest
improvement—with none of the
defects of other machines!
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS AND
SELL IT IN 3 MODELS.
NO. 3 HAS THE ONLY
PERFECT “CAM ”
MOVEMENT.
NOS. 10 & 12 HAVE
THE IMPROVED
“MALTESE CROSS’’
MOVEMENT.
HERE ARE SOME OF ITS AD-
VANTAGES
ALL STEEL SPROCKETS VARI-
ABLE GEARING (Chain Belt
or Carvari Shaft).
RIGID IRON STAND.
ASBESTOS LINED LAMP
HOUSES (extra large).
AUTOMATIC SLIDE FEED.
MALTESE CROSS FITTED IN
OIL BATH.
PERFECT FILM GATE.
IMPROVED FILM BOXES, ensur-
ing absolute ease in threading
film.
AUTOMATIC CUT OFF.
ABSOLUTELY FIRE-PROOF.
PERFECTLY SILENT RUNNING
EASE OF MANIPULATION.
Every Showman should come and let us give him a
Free Demonstration of the “ SILENT EMPIRE.”
JERDAN’S,
The Leading
Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fh
fhfh
Food
FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free frcm rough and
indigestible particle?. “The Lancet describes it as
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
fj)enger's Food is s >ld in lins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
829
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Y.Z.”: Have lately read two interesting art items.
One informs an enraptured public that a wealthy Mel-
bourne weekly, with worthy enterprise, is providing its
readers with a magnificent colored supplement gratis.
The supplement is a copy of McCubbin’s picture, “The
Pioneer,” now hanging in the Melbourne National
Gallery, the property of the people, bought and paid
for by the grateful public to whom that generous jour-
nal is giving it gratis. The other wholesome art item
is a delighted paragraph to the effect that a big tea-
flrin is giving away, with splendid prodigality, beauti-
ful almanacs in the shape of reproductions of pictures
in Sydney and Melbourne National Galleries. Thank
God, our expensive public art galleries have a use, if
it is only to enable frugal private enterprises to
ignore original works, and so evade the scandalous
exactions of half-starved Australian artists !
Bunbury (W.A.) has a proud boast that it gave
the world Bigjohn Forrest, and stands next to Sydney
and Melbourne for the number of deep-sea ships it
sends away laden. At latest, John’s birthplace hadn’t
been altered ; and Knibbs, though he didn’t put Bun-
bury third, allowed it a place high up in the list of
Australian ports. Sydney, last year, cleared 316
over-sea steamers, with cargo, and 69 sailers; New-
castle cleared 230 and 233; Melbourne, 95 and 38;
Adelaide, 97 and 30; Hobart, 85 and 8; and Bun-
bury, 61 and 11. Fremantle stood credited with
148 and 9 ; but, like Thursday Island (45 and 45),
Fremantle is a port where many a ship merely calls
for a doch-an’-doris. Bunbury’s two chief products
are distinguished by their bulk. Nearly all it sends
away is timber; and timber is a bloated substance,
which calls for a ship to its own cheek, whereas you
could store twice as valuable a cargo of Bendigo’s
output in a hand-truck.
“Don Q.”: The new Whiteley Emporium, London,
will make Anthony Hordern’s take a back seat-. The
ground floor is four acres in extent ; departments,
115 ; staff, 5000 ; 24 passenger lifts, and a wireless
installation on the dome roof. Shopping by wireless
is going to become popular, and it lost nothing when
one of the big New York houses, seizing the occasion
of the first trip of the monster Olympic, forwarded
by aeroplane a pair of spectacles, which had been
ordered by wireless. The goods were delivered before
the steamer reached port, and great was the “gol’
darn” thereof.
* * * *
The Prahran Malvern (Vic.) municipally-owned
tramway, which lately handed the contracting coun-
cils a tidy sum in reduction of their rates, has now
taken a further step, that shows the citizens of the
metropolis what they have lost through handing over
the city’s tram system to a greedy monopoly for so
many years. From December 1 the council’s lines
are run in penny sections, and parties chartering
special ears can have them at a rate that works
out at a halfpenny a mile per head. Furthermore,
the Trust is going to run cars after midnight, and
later on they will do an occasional sprint all night.
The private co. says this is one of the numerous
things that can’t be done, and wouldn’t pay if it
could be done ; while, as for charging a halfpenny a
mile, the dividend-mongering concern would almost
as soon have hydrophobia.
* # * *
“S.S.”: Fat’s education is shamefully neglected in
Melbourne. He is allowed to roar about the sacred-
ness of private enterprise, and to preach that the one
unforgivable sin is any manner of interference with
that godly and gracious principle, and no one steps
up to remind him of his own transgressions. He
is not told that 38s. a thousand for bricks is a handi-
cap to the enterprising private individual who wants
to build a home of his own. Neither does a pitying
friend whisper in his capacious ear a few words
about private enterprise in fish dealing, which con-
cerns itself mainly with the task of curtailing its
own enterprise, with a view to selling less fish for
more money. Public enterprise has provided a
trawler to locate millions of fish; private enterprise
stands resolutely in the way of any transference of
those fish from the sea to the saucepan. The chief
characteristic of private enterprise is that it hasn’t
any when it can possibly avoid it.
* * * *
“Quidam” : The people who call gardening a recrea-
tion should be locked up before they become actually
dangerous to society. I have lately taken to the
pursuit, my proudest boast, heretofore, having been
that the only vegetable I knew anything about in the
raw state was a cyanide plant; and I thought the
hard labor connected with that was as bad as any-
thing. I know better now. What set me going was
the reading of several paroxysms re the ennobling,
invigorating, uplifting, etc., effect of putting mother
earth in a fit condition to produce succulent vege-
tables. The only uplifting, etc., influence I have
found was on the voice, and that happened twice —
once when I trod on the rake, and the other time
when I stepped backwards on the wheelbarrow. What
is there ennobling in jumping on the top of a fork
and turning up a lot of ugly sods, with slimy earth-
worms wriggling about in them ? As for getting up
before breakfast to tackle the mournful, murderous
job, I’ll bet no scientist ever did it himself, or he
wouldn’t have had enough sense to be a scientist.
It’s all right if you do it by proxy, I’ll admit, and if
the scientist had his wife properly trained he might
have enjoyed it well enough. This leads me to pro-
pose barring seedsmen’s catalogues as pernicious
works of fiction. How many happy homes have been
busted owing to the remarks of an embittered person
who, seeing in one of these exquisitely exaggerated
volumes a beautiful yellow pumpkin being rolled lab-
oriously home by two strong men, has spent many toil-
some hours trying to grow another, and has eventu-
ally produced something the size of a small wart ?
I submit the idea to Bruce Smith and John Madden
and others who have hitherto professed so much inter-
est in the coagulation of the home.
* * * *
“Silas”: A most humorods fraud put in an ap-
pearance at a Melbourne city bar the other after-
noon. He was a tall man, in a black suit that had
gone to seed, and a belltopper that was past repair.
“Will you contribute a little whisky to the chari-
ties?” he said huskily. “Will I what?” snorted the
barman. “A little whisky for the charities,” con-
tinued the decayed Wowser; “I am collecting for
the Melbourne Hospital.” The barman grinned.
“What have you got to put it in?” he asked. The
collector looked tired. “You can put it in me,” he
said, “and, if I get sufficient, you may depend on it
reaching the hospital.”
PLEASE, GO SLOW!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Graham’s assertion that the City Council makes
£40,000 a year from its markets is evidently intended
to prejudice that body, and is' repudiated as “abso-
lutely untrue.” The circumstances demand confer-
ence and inquiry and consideration, not a precipitate
rush into market-building oiit of a feverish desire to
appear to be in a hurry. —Melbourne Argus.
Please, go slow !
It’s the easy way, you know.
Oh, never mind your present needs, and let’the future
rip!
Here’s the simple tip-
Try and put on weight!
If you’d live to ninety-nine, you should avoid the
hurly-burly ;
Doubtless you will win out yet if not particularly
early.
Don’t fret if you’re late!
Dead, durned slow !
Do you hear the howling grow?
The people’s fish it is that howls with waiting over-
long.
Hear this simple song—
Hear your country’s call,
It’s the feeble, please-go-easy, let-me-sleep-on, foolish,
dazy,
Gentle, wheezy, purring protest of the loafer fat and
lazy,
Dozing by the wall.
VICTORIA.
STONY.


■sill
'
1 1
. f
. * .
:
•j
a
■ •' -.ywip
*•
ill
1
-
:\ ' , . '■;■. '■ :
:
SfPflF -?* •>
V
-i ■ ; :
. :\V :-
n/ii
UULuCIT J
MOTOR*C4R«IES
ADMIRATION, approval—even wonderment —inevitably follow experience of
our cars. That is because each car is efficient and luxurious to a point
that ensures popularity.
Our list embraces the admirable Austin (10, 15 and 18/24 h.p.) ; the
popular F.N. (10/14 and 16/24 h.p.); the powerful Silent Knight Daimler (15,
22 and 38 h.p.); and the luxurious Delaunay-Belleville (17 and 19 h.p.).
Mechanical efficiency, luxurious fittings, and perfect symmetry and
modernity in design are features which are widely appreciated in each of the cars
listed above. ■ ••
We are also sole agents for The Halley Motor
strong and accessible—quite the most practical commercial motor for Australian
conditions.
Full information concerning any of these cars will he sent with catalogue, free upon request.
We would like, also, to send you booklets containing testimonial letters from Australian
Motorists—men whom you probably know, and whose experiences you will be glad to read.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
Motor Garage, 136-138 PHILLIP STREET.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
fh
* Twin Screw, t Wireless.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERV SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E. N GL AN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ous 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Booms, Private
Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Bankings Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS from 4 to 5 per cent•
on City ami Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
Bank of jjortii Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)ew Z ea * an d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . ... 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and. Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE.
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED . CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) .. £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Ivt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales fc Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital ’.'..id fTn .. .. .. 413,494 8 10
Reserve in (' /. Stock) .. .. 100,000 0 0
Inteiinina! Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
L'NDF.TI GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F.
LORD, Esq.
General Manager— lV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE.
Nord D
eutscher
'loycL
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Twin Screw Steamers. jTons
KONIGIN LUISE . 10711
Com mander.
SKY GLITZ
Fit] KDEICII d. G
GROSSER KURFURST
GNEISENAU ..
SCHARNHORST ..! 8081 Tex tor
I SOOOC. Mnndt..
1K'605:0. Meiners
i 13243 G. ltott ..
8081
! Sydney.
jPeo. 30
Wed’d’v
•lan. 24
Feb'. 21
Mar. 20
April 17
May 15
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation,
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPfIN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne:
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
THC AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
V London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
fh
All Steamers lined with Wireless Telegraphy.
a New Si earner., b Triple-screw Turbine.'
PARES— t Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
bv Orient Line —£112 (First-class each way) ;
£B5 (Second-oiass Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
i
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fh
Twin-screw Steamers.
CUEVIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
January 17.
PZ.RSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
February Mi.
It l NIC, MEDlC'and AFRIC to follow,
t itced with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation!
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Receiyed Only on Day of Sailing,
* DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Cruises to the
•"■V, r .. . "ih
vSouth iSeas.
Interesting tours to Volcanic and Coral Islands
of the Pacific.
Calm Seas and splendid Scenery; a complete
change, affording unrivalled opportunities of view-
ing. the native inhabitants in complete safety in
their semi-barbarous state.
Cruises can be taken, occupying from 22 days
upwards, visiting from two to 120 ports or
Islands.
Saloon Fares from under 10s. per day upwards.
Send for our Illustrated Pamphlet.
fh
BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
*m
. £3,000,000
- £2,025.000
£3,000,000
£8,025,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. Mackellar, M.L.G., President.
The Hon. Reginald Janies Blank,
TBdnlas Buokland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MaeLaurin, Kfc., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard Edgecliff Laid ley, Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St, E C
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Walesl67 Victoria 87
Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, New Zealand 57, Tasmania 1 Fiji 3 Papua 2
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents tlm ugbout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe India China’
Japan and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu and the West’lndies ‘ ’
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Hills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
L_RTJSSEr,L FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,500,000 0 0
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq . . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Sijelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. IV. Hixson,- Esq., & )V. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: IV. R. Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: IV. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhet.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£769,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. rsa
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst, Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial fl)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate - and without restriction -as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, Iv.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE-GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The METROPOLITAN
accident, fire
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALIAN INSURERS.
OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.K.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
, Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
I*~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Shipping'.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED). .
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for Melbourne
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Ami'GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Trnnshinpinar at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GER.AI.DTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kvarra (7000), Satur-
day, Jan. 20. Tranship-
pin*,'- at Fremantle to all
N.-West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE ;
And Ports North ijo OMrn*.
S.S. Innainincka. Den. 30
'S.S. Marino, Jan. 6.
S.S. Grantala, Jan. 13.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services, subject to conditions, which can la-
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADJAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUT Pi
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.= H.— 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
Twin-screw Steamer
“SHROPSHIRE.”
12,300 Tons. Captain Priske.
Will be despatched from: —
BRISBANE, JANUARY 2.
SYDNEY, JANUARY 9.
MELBOURNE, JANUARY 16.
ADELAIDE, JANUARY 23.
Carries Saloon Passengers only.
The STATE ROOMS are situated on DECK amid-
ships ; DININO SALOON, SMOKE-ROOM and
LOUNGE situated on UPPER DECK. Doctor and
Stewardesses carried. Wireless Telegraphy iitted.
Return and Round Trio Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Canal Routes. Prepaid passages
arranged.
FARES—Single, £4O to £46.
Return, £6B to £76 10s.
From Brisbane £2 extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply
to —-
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Prop., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wb Supply—
JARRAH PiJes, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
63J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
CLOTHED
WITH AIR.
To be so, it is necessary to wear shirts
and underwear of
AERTEX CELLULAR
which, by means of the peculiar ar-
rangement of small cells or spaces on
the surface worn next the body, pro-
vides practically a layer of air next
the skin: thus making for health,
cleanliness and comfort, more par-
ticularly during
HOT WEATHER.
We stock all garments for both men
and women; and make to measures
when desired.
Call and inspect; or write for sam-
ples of the various fabrics, and price
lists —posted free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
Tailors and Shirtmakers,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
N.S.W. Agents for Aertex Cellular Materials
and Garments.


Hotels,
&c.
Grand Central Hotel.
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
THIS HOTEL is the hesc appointed in the
Commonwealth. CENTRAL and COMFORT-
ABLE. Magnificent Dining Hall, Elegant
Drawing Rooms, Spacious Winter Garden and
Lounges. "fl Promenade, Roof Garden with Tennis
Court. U Sumptuous Apartments (Suites and
Single Rooms).
Hot and Cold Water throughout. Elevators run-
ning day and night. Electric Oar passes the door.
TARIFF FROM I2s. PER DAY.
H Private Dinners, Afternoon Teas, At Homes
and Wedding Parties a Specialty.
Telegraphic Address : D. WALKER BELL,
“Grand Central,” Manager.
Adelaide. ’Phone 3284.
'EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
&he HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.*
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in nie since 1996.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist tor its history—the book is free—or write
s. GREEN 210- Lambeth Roan. London, "F’n
Tasmania for Tourists.
TEMPERATURE MILD;
ATMOSPHERE EXHILARATING
SCENERY MAGNIFICENT.
Tourists Splendidly Looked After by the Well Organised Tourist Association.
His'hfield Hotel, Hobart
THE LEADING HOTEL THE FASHIONABLE RESORT OF TOURISTS
LAVISHLY FURNISHED; EXCELLENT ATTENDANCE:
FIRST-CLASS CUISINE; KOSHER MEAT; TELEPHONE;
ELECTRIC LIGHT; SELECT BILLIARD ROOM.
ARRANGEMENTS MADE FOR MOTOR STORAGE.
CENTRAL SITUATION—CLOSE TO RIVER, RAIL, TRAMS, G.P.0., TOURIST BUREAU, &c.
ROOMS NOW BEING BOOKED FOR COMING SEASON. EARLY APPLICATION REQUESTED.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfield Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
Business Announcements
AaB
99
AlUwool unshrink-
able Soc Ks. Stockings,
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as wool —not
a mixture of wool and cotton —but all wool.
If the name is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you will know that you have all - Aastralasian - wool wear,
and more that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
Further, the $2222* process makes them as soft and com-
fortable as silk. And $22222* are made in England.
fh
Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men,.Ladies, and Children.
In all Of Men’s Outfitters, DrapersTand Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his I 'wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “Jason" booklet and name of nearest
Agent to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
<i>
m
THE good name of the mother country is
bound up in AVON MOTOR TYRES.
The home folk who run their ears on
AVO NS are not looking any more for the per-
feet tyre, because the manufacture of AVONS,
always at the top notch of modernity, is conducted on the
principle that not the most scientific machinery can make silk
purses out of sows’ ears; that the strength, endurance and
speediness demanded of the motor tyre must be derived from
material of the finest, deftly handled.
Other Specialties of this Firm include—
mechanical rubber for railways.
Avon Buffer and Drawbar Springs, Brake Materials, Body Fittings,
Valves, Ilose, etc., specially adapted for use in the tropics. Contrac-
tors to the principal State Railways.
CYCLE and MOTOR CYCLE TYRES
With special Rubber Treads in several grades, made especially to
withstand the effects of hot climates.
FOR MOTOR CYCLE COVERS CUnched-on
A special combination of Rubber and Steel Studs placed alternately
round the tread. Hexagon rubber-studded, round rubber-studded
and fluted patterns. Thick tough treads and extra strong casings.
SOLID TYRES FOR MOTORS, etc.
Avon Band Tyres for passenger ’buses and other heavy vehicles.
Vlinched-on sections from to sin., suitable for the lighter type
of motor vehicles up to 2-ton vans. Solid tyres tor Carriages, Cabs,
Rickshaws, etc.
GOLF BALLS
Made up on a special centre which forms the nucleus for the wind-
ing of Para tape. This arrangement produces a ball which flies ve'ry
true, and is especially suitable for expert players.
AVON BALL, 2/- each; NOVA BALL, 1/3 each.
Cable Codes: “ABC Sth Edition” and “Western Union.”
AVON INDIA RUBBER CO. LTD , T Melksham, England.
EDISON
>/2>
M i
A
A
'M
k
m
k
n
Ss*J<
w
PHONOGRAPHS
UNLESS you are the possessor of an Edison Phonograph you
are missing two things: the first, an intimate knowledge of
what Thomas A. Edison, the wizard inventor, has done in
the way of perfecting sound-reproducing instruments, and the
second the opportunity of having as much real entertainment in
your home as you wish, whenever you feel like it.
The Edison Phonograph, with Edison Amberol and Standard
Gold-moulded Records, brings the concert hall, the grand opera, the
theatre, the vaudeville stage and the bandstand right to your home.
Hear the Edison Phonograph as soon as you can. If there is
no dealer in your vicinity, write to us, and we will put you in touch
with one, as well as send you lists of Phonographs and Records.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364=372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
/M
■;C
S*
'3
3SU
LOCAL
AUSTRALIAN
TOBACCO
f


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Missing Friends.
I > OLAND ELLWOOD TERRY SHUTT
XV —or TERRY. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of above person, who left
Loughbro’, England, November, 1908, for
Otorohhnga, W. T. W., New Zealand, thence
for Sydney, August, 1909, please communi-
cate with
W. A.,
Bulletin, Sydney.
EIDGE, PERCY JAMES, formerly of
Turriff, Victoria (entitled to share in
his father’s estate)., or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, is requested to communicate
with MILLS & OAKLEY, Solicitors, Mel-
bourne.
Alexander mcauly, or moauley.
Would ALEXANDER McAULY, son
of John McAuley, of Forest Reefs* near
Millthorpe, New South Wales, Farmer, who
died in 1900, or any persoh knowing the
whereabouts or of the death of ,the said Alex-
ander McAuly, who followed droving, shear-
ing and like occupations, please communi-
cate with PILE & WESTGARTH, Solici-
tors, Blayney, N.S.W.
IYOU POOR THIRSTY SOUE!
HOW DOES.’THIS STRIKE YOU?
A glass of “Montserrat” Lime Juice. It’s a
splendid summer drink —so refreshing.*
That tired feeling is not always caused by the
weather; it is your liver. Try Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets. *
lIP
Sensible
Tropical
Suit.
This style of Patrol
Suit is the most sen-
sible for the warm
weather. The only
undergarment it calls
for is a singlet, as it
buttons right to the
neck.
We have these suits
in all sizes, and can
heartily recommend
them.
In White Drill, the price is 17/6; in
fancy Tussore, 21/-.
SAC SUITS (ordinary style) in oat-
meal crash —a material which is delight-
fully cool, and which will wear well —are
also 17/6 and 21/-
If you haven’t our Catalogue, will you
send for a copy?
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big BlocK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
“Sbingaree”: The Chinamen in Banana-
land have been watching the benefits the
white workers receive by being staunch
unionists, and after a good deal of hard
thinking, they are following the Eulopean's
example. In a quiet way, they have fixed
a wage log, which is proving very successful,
and at Bowen, for instance, refuse to work
for the white vegetable growers unless they
receive £2 2s. per week, or 30s. and found.
As it is next to impossible for a white cook
to turn out tucker that will please a Pong,
he generally receives the former wage; also,
beginning to feel their strength, they are
■mighty independent, and “snatch their
time” upon the least provocation.
“Petronius Earbiter” —his Christmas
carol” :
Christmas Eve was hot enough and mosquitoey
enough to keep me awake till Christmas morning
came, and I began to think I’d see most of the dark
end of the morning, and I was tired and didn’t want
to. The cats had been pretty active, too, and, as it
was nearing two o’clock, I was anxious to get “off”
before the cocks started their scale-exercises. I had
just fallen into a delicious, woolly, cloud of Sleep,
and was making for the really deep parts, when I
was yanked back to the black earth by a distant but
clearly-heard dismal groan, or moan, or combination
of the two. A grunt followed, then three or four
squeaks, then another groan-moan, or moan-groan.
What the devil was it? I sat up and listened.
Grunt-grunt-grunt ! Woo-woo-woo-woop l Twee-e-e-e-e l
It sounded like Belphegor tuning up a double-bass
full of rats, while he kicked a pig. The weird row
got louder —came nearer —and woke the next-door
baby, which isn’t more than three weeks old and so
doesn’t know better. A chord sounded, and then on
the three-o’clock air there fell the strains of “Chris-
tians, Awake! Salute the Happy Morn!” It was
the “Waits.” They staggered through the first
verse, like a small boat in a choppy sea —where you’d
think they’d go up they’d go down —and the cornet
(for they had a cornet at three o’clock in the morn-
ing, Oye just gods!) the infernal cornet kept three
notes behind all the way ! They finished the “tune”
and, without even two bars rest, dashed into---Ayhat S
do you think? —-“The Old Hundredth!” They,'abtu-t
ally asked our street to praise God !rom Whom all'
Blessings flow at three o’clock in tl morning; and
our street had been “keeping up” Christmas Eve
pretty late! With diabolical en gy they flung
themselves next into “Abide with 5 That woke
our dog up, and he took the tenor part with fine
effect. Our dog, I might mention, is a grand watch-
dog ; he sleeps well, all night, unless he is trodden
on, or somebody plays “Abide with Me!” Years
ago we found out his little idiosyncrasy, and the
children have strict orders never to sing “Abide with:
Me.” Anything else doesn’t matter. Just how the
“Waits” found out our dog’s weak spot I cannot say ;
it seems miraculous. Anyway, there he was, woke up
for good, and letting hifnself go on A in alt like'
Caruso ; while the next-door baby gave a cataclysmic
imitation of a three-weeks-old Melba in the “Jewel
Song.” Then, all the dogs in our street, and for
several streets round, stood up and sang “Abide
with Me,” led by our dog; and this, of course, fired
all the cocks and cockerels in Toowong and Coor-
paroo, and round by Breakfast Creek and Enoggera,
not to mention Pinkenba. A sound of muffled curses
rose under, and around, and over it all —just like
the humming chorus that the Fisk Jubilee Singers
used to weave about the theme when Gabriel blew
his Trumpet in the Morning. It,was our street wak-
ing up at three o’clock in the morning to salute
the happy dawn! You can’t beat these grand old
institutions —at least, you can, but if you do the
police might ask your name and address. All the
same, we are laying a trap for the “Waits” next
Christmas Eve. We have started a Bull-Terrier
Club, and members are training their animals to rush
out and bite anything that looks like a person with
a cornet, or a sacbut, or a fiddle, the moment they
toot or squeak.
Queensland Legislative Council has bat-
tled valorously for Bung, and the Liquor
Bill as it left the House of Beers might
almost have been framed by the Licensed
Victuallers’ Association. The Denham Gov-
ernment was praying to Heaven that the
Fossils would fire the thing out; but the
Council suspected this, and declined to come
up to expectations.
“Gip” : Dropped into the store of a half-
horse Queensland town, the other day, while
a long B'iljim was purchasing a pair of
moles and a pound of tobacco. “How’s my
account now?” he says. “’Bout 200,” re-
plies the storekeeper, in a casual sort of
way. “Righto,” says Biljlrn, and swings
off. I suppose I was in that store half an
hour, and during that time several other Bil-
jims mooched in for a smoke, or to buy some-
thing, and each one seemed anxious as to
how he stood on the books. “Wodder I ow T e y’
now, boss?” was the general inquiry, and
the cheerful bloque behind the counter
would reply “Thousand and fifty,” “Five
hundred and twenty-seven,” “Three hundred
odd,” and so on. “ ’Struth!” I gasped at
last, “when d’you reckon to get that
money?” “Money,” said the storekeeper;
“that ain’t money. It’s palin’s. Them coves
are palin'-cutters, and they’re working off
their accounts.”
EASIER
TEA VELLING.
UNCLE: “ Have you
no ambition , sir? Don't
you want to leave your foot-
prints on the sands of time?"
NEPHEW : "Well, to tell you the truth, I'd sooner leave my carriage ruts."
■ ‘ “Politicals” : Why this indignation on the
: part of the Government re Warwick’s fin-
ances? The Warwick people, it is alleged,
have been attempting to meet their liabilities
.by paying loan money ifito the general
fund. A highly reprehensible practice, of
course.! But Queensland Governments have
for years been practically using loan money
.for revenue purposes, inasmuch as they
’baste .“met” all their revenue deficits by the
issue of Treasury Bills, and are now “meet-
ing”' those ‘same Treasury Bills by the issue
of fresh Treasury Bills. Why doesn’t War-
wick plead this noble precedent?
Still the same abominable “without en-
cumbrance” advt.: — .;
APPLICATIONS are invited for married couple
without encumbrance as WARDER and MATRON
for Adavale Hospital. Salary, £lOO per annum and
found.
In plain mulga, wanted a couple who,
having no children, can afford to do things
,cheap—and they will be expected to see that
.they don’t disqualify themselves by pro-
ducing any little Australians who may
thereafter want feeding and a mother’s at-
tention; To even things up. The Bulletin
wants to hear qf a Western squatter who,
having no expensive encumbrances, can
afford to pay his “hands” something extra,
and advertises accordingly.
“Au(|an”: “Itan” tqlls no less than the
truth When he says that the Muckadilla bore
provides a cure for rheumatism. It is a
great pity, however, that, more people can-
not avail themselves of it. , The accommo-
dation at. the one hotel in the place is very
small. The bath is situated 100yds. or more
away from the hotel, and 4!| on » an unpro-
tected way, where, in wiufer, the westerly
winds bark at and bite the patient as he
goes to and from his dip. The bath itself is
a pit about 10 x 6 x 4ft., enclosed by a pali-
sade of galvanised iron, and while waiting
for his bath to fill and cool (no attendant
being provided) the invalid gets all that is
coming to him. In spite of' all drawbacks,
however, the hopeless, throw their sticks
away at Muckadilla, ~ahd scoff at the idea of
a material hell. Also, old-established
cripples cast their c&fitches at the dog, and
rush home to beat their wives Tor carrying
on 'with, third parties, dfter being for years
too . crumpled up to care if their wives
carried on with third, fourth, fifth or perhaps
tenth parties. It is never safe to insult a
rheumatic patient now even in the centre of
Africa, for he may go to Muckadilla and be
cured, and 10 years later he may overtake
you at Samarcand and knock saucepans out
of you.
West Queensland has recently been re-
joiced by scattered rainfalls. Singular to
say, the coast, in sections, is still thirsty.
Mackay, of all places, has had a spell of
nearly 10 months with no rainfall; and
Mackay rum is a thing of the past.
“Stingaree”: The growing of calabashes
for pipe manufacture, when introduced into
the Bowen district (N.Q.), a few years back,
promised great things. Most of the seeds
were planted close to the river banks, and
the big floods last year washed acres of
calabashes away, and scattered the ruins of
them over the surrounding landscape. As a
result, seeds are taking root in the most un-
expected places, and threaten to become as
great a pest as the prickly pear and the
China-apple bush.
How simply our forebears dealt out “jus-
tice” to the aboriginal! Brisbane Courier
(December, 1861) told how Lieutenant
Cave~ pursued a party of blacks supposed to
have been implicated in the massacre of the
Wills family on the Nogoa, and drove them
“up a steep ridge, where escape was impos-
sible, except by jumping over a precipice..
Here they were all shot to the number of
60 or 70. One fellow cried out, ‘Me no kill
white fellow’; but he, also, was killed.
This little incident proves that the blacks
well knew why they were being punished.”
No miserable sorting out of the innocent
from the guilty in those days.
An unlovely sectarian row is brewing in
Bananaland, in time for next general elec-
tion. The R.C.’s and Wowsers are mu-
tually ferocious over the Bible dm State
schools business, and each one professes to
make religious education a test question.
The Tory press has been assiduously nurs-
ing the flame for months past. The Labor
i crowd must be cut up somehow!
In Festive Mood.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mrs. Kwong nee and Mrs. See Poy decided to give
the local school children a treat. On Friday morning
they went out to canvass for donations, and thanks
are due to the generous donors: See Poy, Nam Wah
and Sam Lee Jang, biscuits; Tam Sie, Hop lvee,
Hook Lee, Nam Sang Loong and Sun Chin Lee,
lollies; Ah Tim, Sam Lee and Mew Hop, fruit.—
North Queensland paper.
Sing hey for the buns of Ah Soo and the tea,
The sweets of See Poy and the tarts of Quong Kee ;
The lemonade hailing from smiling On Goo,
The luscious banana that smelt of Ah Loo!
It did not occur up in heathen Shan-si,
But here, where Australians are festive and free ;
Nam Sang and Ah Wang, in their pigtails bedight,
Came out to provide for a spread that was white.
Sing hey ! for the olanges sent by Sam Lee,
The fluit that came in as a gift from Ah Nee ;
The ginger and candy that came from the shop
That’s kept at the corner by Citizen Hop!
How lively we whistled and jested and sang
With Mrs. Ah Pi and with Missie Go Hang!
How gay did we get on the beer and the bun,
And yell out Hooray ! for 110 Si and Ah Sun !
And when we had tippled a bit on sam-shu,
We started for home with our crony Ah Mew,
And thankit the Lord at the end of the spree,
He’d sent us as neighbor a heathen Chinee !
QUEENSLAND.
All TRUE.
The Bishop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The estate of Dr. Wordsworth (late Bishop of Salis-
bury) was valued at £33,455 ; Bishop Gott (Truro)
died worth £82,611; Bishop Walsham'Howe, £72,240 ;
Bishop Tufnell, £65,805 ; Archbishop Thomson
(York), £54,556 ; Archbishop Benson, £35,000. —
Age.
When Bishop after Bishop dies,
And leaves a record, showing
With shekels, by the thousand he
Was really, overflowing,
It makes the casual hum'an think,
While yawning out the sermon,
How good it is to spread your fleece
Beneath the dews of Hermon.
A calf of gold in days of old
Was lifted up by Aaron, '
And lusty Levites found it fair
As roses out of Sharon;
And so to-day a calf of gold
Before the people poses,
As set on high by priestly hands
Without the fear of Moses.
The stout Apostle trudged of old,
Of wealth a dour despiser ;
But modern bishops seem to ape,
In truth, the very miser;
With bags of gold securely placed,
His Grace will preach submission,
And deem his twenty thousand pile
A Beatific Vision.
For ev’ry text that curses wealth
He hath a gloss artistic,
And ev’ry text that damns the rich—-
Its meaning is but mystic ;
And when his little day is done,
He hopes at last to wheedle
That heavenly guide that leads him to
The eye within the needle.
One thing is surely out of date,
Our priestly ..lords agree on—
The gospel stern that once was preached
By Him —the Galilean ;
With one brief simple epitaph
His Grace departs contented:
“His Noble Self died full of Pelf,
And deeply was lamented!”
QUEENSLAND.'
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 23, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
His Ex. and the lady Ex. departed on
Saturday for ivillarney in search of a cool
spell, but the Chiel will look in at the orgies
of the Toowoomba Caledonian savages be-
fore coming to an anchorage. The fiery!
cross or the burning haggis or whatever the 1
symbol may be, has also gone forth to warn
Stanthorpe of his approach.
The A.-G. Robinsons, having thoroughly
shaken the hand of the sinful North, re-
turned at the end of the week. On Tuesday
they were firmly led to the Cafe Eschen-
hagen by the Ross Munro lady, and fed with
a lavish hand and other eatables. The same
night, Colonel Lyster did the graceful at
White’s Hill, the Robinsons and party being
transported thither per domestic horse.
The marriage habit appears to be in-
curable. _ Last Saturday, John, third son of
ex-Premier William Kidston, put the gold
band of possession on the finger of pretty
Joan Brown, of Cooparoo. The bride was
upholstered in the usual satin, veil and
orange blossoms, and had four maids to
back her up. W. LI. Barnes, better known
as “Bishop,” said all that was expected at
the wedding feast, and William of Fal-
kirk, who has few chances for oration these
dull, degenerate days, seized the shining
opportunity by the coat-tail..
Then, on Wednesday, at Southport, little
Maymie Stevens, youngest daughter of E. J.
of that ilk, was married to Hamlyn Harris,
son of a much hyphenated person who once
adorned the ISth Hussars. The bride wore
a robe made in the fascinating early Vic-
torian style, with short waist and full skirt.
Two sisters were turned into bridesmaids
for the occasion, 'and bride and groom each
subscribed a brother for the support of the
mere man. The honeymoon is to be spent in
the North.
Since I last wrote you, Miss Eileen Ran-
ken graciously intimated to Mr. Jim Can-
nan, at St. Matthew’s Church, that the
ring was quite satisfactory. Pretty Jessie
Munro left her cool Toowoomba mountain
home to assist her pal, but it was of no
avail. The Graham-Murray wedding took
place quietly at the Murray roof tree, and
united two families of former political di-
mensions in Quensland. The head of one,
John Murray, was tempted to sacrifice the
bone for the shadow —in other words, he
resigned his Council seat to contest a Fed-
eral election, and fell. The other head,
the late William Graham, was also for many
years a prominent Dodery—as they put it
in Tasmania’s Apple Isle.
Tarrying in your city of pubs are the
newly-joined E. R. B. Jordans. He keeps
the local Liedertafel in tune with the piano,
and his bride (formerly Miss Teenie Annan)
is the custodian of a cultivated voice of
beautiful mezzo quality. She was one of
the bright spots in the recent performance
of “lolanthe.”
An all-nations fair is to be held at Cun-
namulla. It is intended to raise sufficient
dust to_ provide a cot or cots at a seaside
sanatorium for unfortunate western young-
sters who suffer from ophthalmia, and the
movement promises well. The Governoress
has been doing something practical, and
before she left the Vision forwarded a box of
articles made by her own hands. I don’t
know whether that improves the work, but
if it improves the price the rest doesn't
matter.
Mrs. Frank Hall is in your city at pre-
sent. Daughter Amy returned last week.
Miss Leahy, daughter of late Speaker
John, has just had a miserable three weeks
in hospital, and has only escaped in time to
be an accessory after the act to the slaying
of the Christmas goose.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


it*;**
a
o
u
% EL
13'.
>
J
■
X
X-*
/ .
■ liu •'
,'U,.
a
1820 NOT OUT


SYvi^
o^ s
v\ie c \
u ox<y
be^ uU lS
■>’
“«f
\#
//*>
Shiploads of
thirst-quencher
is a description which may be
applied to the cargoes of the
vessels “ Circe ” and “ Ottar,”
which dropped anchor recently
in Liverpool docks. The first
brought 50,000 gallons, and
the second 40,000 gallons of
pure health-giving lime juice,
direct from the island of
Montserrat the famous
tropical home of the cultivated
lime-fruit from which
MONTSERRAT”
LIME JVICE
is extracted. Montserrat is
the best drink at all times
and for all people.
Supplied in two jorms —
Unsweetened, /'. e. , plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened, i.c., Lime Juice Cordial.
Sold by all Storekeepers.
f 'Ringing for Moref^
lUrfj
iTM
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years' success.
CANT
B
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
k l/- EACH POST FREE
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
'MICK SIMMONS
r SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS* EOBACCOM STS
SHOULD SEED FOR OUR TRADE LIST
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
V-
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5/'
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourse and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
(Mention Tub. Bulustin.] [3
AERATED WATERS
of the very best quality are produced with the
REGAL
ƒh
THE REGAL Aerated Water Machine. 1911 Model,
at less than ONE
PENNY per dozen.
The most perfect and compact
machine ever offered for the use
of Hotelkeepers, Cafes, etc.
Write at once for Catalogues
and Prices.
Sole Manufacturers:
Eckersley S Sons,
3 Bond Street, Sydney,
and Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA: Auld & Sons,
Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA; L. Samson & Sons,
Fremantle.
Note:—As a warranty for the ex-
cellent quality of the aerated waters
produced by Eckersley’s machines,
we may mention that they are
used exclusively in the leading hos-
pitals in Sydney, Melbourne and
Wellington.
SOUND TEETH
ENSURE GOOD
DIGESTIVEORGAN^
YOU ARE
HEAVY SMOKER!
Therefore i/ you awaKe in tbe morning
witl) a coated Tongue Use.
GOOD DIGESTIVE
ORGANS ENSURE
£OOO HEALTH
PCBCCO
TOOTH PASTE
m
SEND YOUR
NAME&ADDRES?%
PAPER it WE WILL
MAIL YOU A
FREE SAMPLE.
H purifies the mouHi &Throaf
& also preserves Hie teefh^
G. ARNOLD.
?6 O'CONNELL ST
SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS.
Clement-Bayard
Motor Cars
Speak for Themselves.
Extract of a letter
from the late Manager,
“Motor Transit Com-
pany of Australia,”
Glen Innes: “During
the time I was manag-
ing ‘The Motor Transit
Co. of Australia,’ we
had plying between ,„. T
Glen Innes and Invereil an 11-16 Clement-Bayard Car, which we purchased as second-
hand. We did about 60.000 miles with her up to the time of my leaving (she is still going
well). Nearly all the running was done between Glen Innes and Invereil, over the famous
Waterloo Range, some of the grades of which are one in six. The Car was invariably
overloaded, and was given very little care; but in the face of the b.ad usage she received
at our hands she stood up wonderfully well, and the only repairs that were effected
were two ball races for road wheels and a set of new valves.” Call and allow us to
explain the reason why our prices for Cars generally, Commercial Lorries and High-
wheel Buggies w T ill be found to be 25 per cent, lower than the usual Sydney quotations.
, v ■
7-h.p. 2-Cylinder, Single-Seated Torpedo Body .. .. £225
12/18-h p. 4-CylintJer Touring Body £475
15-h.p. 6-Cylinder Touring Body £575
Sole Agents:—
Office —
Garasre—<
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
■6 & 8 Underwood Street, off 37 Pitt Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
iififni
T*
ew
.
©Krx
M
8*
iiiiuiiifi
CS
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. Wc
specially recommend— *'
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free. >;
ALBERT (Si SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
J O ARCHITECTS.
DESIGNS
are invited for
A NEW CLUB HOUSE
At Flinders Street, Melbourne, for the
Commercial Travellers’ Association of Victoria.
Three Prizes: £2OO, £125, £5O.
Full part ioulars of the conditions and accommodation
required may be obtained on application.
JAMES DAVIES,
190 Flinders Street, Melbourne. Secretary.
l
c*
NOW
RU STAB Lb.
Made in Canada for Ladies
who seek a better figure.
“ mHE Australian thinks in Continents,because
I he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
£ONFID€NTIAL Letters
Retail) Private
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
used.
NSC / 200
PATENT ZANETIC
COPYING 600*^
&
You slip your letter
paper into the _
holder, write your letter in ink, and the copy isn>ade
as you write. Letter shows no sign of copying. The
letter ported and the book locked up. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9 ; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Please send Money-Orders, not P.O.’s.
Increase your Reserve o-f
Vital Energy by taking
EVREN
NERVE and BRAIN
TABLETS
THE TRUE NERVE AND
BRAIN REMEDY.
Highly beneficial in all cases of Phy-
sical Exhaustion, Female Ailments,
Brain Fag, Persistent Headache,
Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Nervous
Dyspepsia, Loss of Appetite, and
that run-down feeling arising from
Overwork or Worry.
All Chemists and Stores.
Price, 21- per Box.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
GO
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALLmucousmembranes
or llnlngß of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottlo
or mailed onrequost.
He Enos Chemical Co.
Cinanoati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIAfVJA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fall.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
fhfh
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS?
ree Witches
cwA«rrr«;,
10
for
Loom
HIGHEST GRADE.
(a per 100, Post Frea.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.


The KODAK Democracy
is World-Wide !
»’■ //'Jf
* ■■>
*&fsr:.*4: ' i’.r-A *%? X?:/.•>. '/,:.
4> ■ »
»*r
v’.rif; » C'
<V*»
.S! K,
>■■ X, •;
iffj*
*v
"S ?v
■• LvV;:-" 1 'if \j
TSiV
* «*
A
: -r
4
a#
I' ;=<
PEOPLE of leisure and people of industry, people
of the mysterious East and people of the
marvellous West, people who are seared with
age and people in the springtime of youth—all find
pleasure, recreation and instruction in the Kodak—
Camera of Cameras.
Regular Kodak Cameras at from 265;, and Brownie
Cameras (they work like Kodaks) from ss. to 505., offer
an infinite variety, but in none of them has the principle
of simplicity .that has made the Kodak a success been
omitted. Kodak Catalogue free on request.
The No. 2 Brownie Camera loads in daylight.
Lens is a Meniscus Achromatic, the shutter is always
set, and is adapted for both snapshot and time
exposures: There are two view finders, one each for
horizontal and vertical pictures. Covered with fine
quality imitation grain leather and has nickel fittings.
Price 10s. Postage extra, 9d. GET ONE NOW
FOR YOUR BOY OR GIRL.
fh
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMONT CO., LTD., Cinematograph Experts),
379 George St.. Sydney.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba.
“ The Block >” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
The New Watch Bracelets.
All Typical “Treasure Watcli Values.
DIRECT from our Hatton Garden Centre, London, has come the new Expanding and other Watch
Bracelets, in many different and excellent styles, each one carrying with it our recommendation as
a serviceable, reliable timekeeper. With one of these watches on your wrist you have constantly
before you the correct time. What more convenient way could you have of carrying your watch ? The
noticeable saving always experienced when purchasing at the Treasure House is again in evidence with
these Watch Bracelets.
No. JBl2O-
- Gold Expanding Bracelet, with Fine
Quality Lever Watch, £6/10/-
>o. J7721—15ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet, with 18ct.
Gold Pull Jewelled Lever Watch, £l4/10
m. i
\r-
oo
Cd
No. C 5995 —15et. Gold Expanding Bracelet, with 18ct.
Gold, High Grade, Full Jewelled Lever Movement,
£l7/10/-
No. .J77os — Gent's Oxidised Steel Bracelet Watch,
with Fine Qual ,T Full Jewelled Lever Movement and
Leather Strap, 30/-
m
w »r 8
■ O
03
v-.vi
No. JBll7—9ct. Gold Expanding Watch Bracelet,
with Full Jewelled Lever Movement, £B.
Both the Quality
and Value of
Stewart Dawson’s
Watches are
Famed
throughout the
Commonwealth.
on -ig
, O _ CO
*o. J *7l3 —9ct. Gold And Enamel Full Jewelled Level
Watch, with Leather Strap, £4.
Lady’s Silver
and Enamel
:
Pendant
Watches
with Brooch,
25/-and 27/6
each.
No. J7B6s—9ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet, with Fing
Quality Full Jewelled Watch, a Reliable Timekeeper,
£5/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. J74B2— 9ct. Gold Expanding: Bracelet, with 15ct.
Gold i-Plate Lever Watch, £7/7/-
Write for our Illustrated Jewellery and Watch Catalogue.
$
©
(AOSTnAUAI umiTCO,
"THE TREASURE HOUSE,”
We Pay tHe
Postage.
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
Other Stewart Dawson Establishments : Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin; Hatton Garden, E.C., and Regent Street, London W.


Mainly about a white elephant, which has
packed its trunk
It is announced here (London) that “The Soul of
the World; a Christmas Mystery,” is to be performed
at the Imperial Institute by the Morality Play So-
ciety. This recalls memories of a notable fiasco.
The Imperial Institute was to be a permanent
memorial of the record reign of Queen Victoria.
Somers Vine was sent to Australia, Canada, Maoriland,
India all over the Empire—to collect subscriptions
irom Governments and title-hunters. Large sums of
money were thus secured, and the present big build-
ing in South Kensington was erected. Notwithstand-
ing every effort on the part of the Royal family, the
thing never caught on, and a frightful frost set in.
The building is now occupied by the University of
London and other bodies, although the Imperial In-
stitute is permitted to linger out a ghostly existence
m a remote corner of it. Some £50,000 of good
\ustralian money was sunk in this royal bog, and
there is no hope of recovering a penny of it.
Amusements.
I YKIC AND COLONIAL, THEATRES,
™ Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from II a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d. ,
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY;: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
'Ve Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
I NTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
■ Theatre liuildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Mr. AV. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyricand Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo play manufacturers, hut we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS uF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS -EVERY ONE A WINNER
Branches : Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Trustee Cham-
bers, Perth; Courier Buildings, Brisbane; Welling-
ton, New Zealand ; London, England: Dewar House,
Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “ International Pictures.”
That’s sufficien t.
PALACE THEAT R E. SYDNEY.
Direction i A [.LAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING.
PLIMMER-DENNIS'L'ON SEASON.
A MEAL OF MERRIMENT!
The Latest London Farcical Comedy,
INCONSTANT GEORGE.
THE GREAT “PYJAMA” PLAY.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
HIATIONAE AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors—Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Limited
MAMMOTH HOLIDAY PROGRAMME.
Direct from England.
CAVALTERI, the World’s Greatest Protean Artist.
ROYA &RE JAN, MARIE LEA, KING & MILLARD,
EDITH HARMBR, V MICIIAL BRAHAM,
EMERALD & DIJPRE, “A Hot Scotch.”
GUS HARRIS, in a New Series of Chorus Song-!.
Prices a|' usual. Plans at Theatre.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction : J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING .
MR. J. C. WILI/lAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
and the Perennial Favorite, "* J
OUR MI si GXB’BS.
BOX PLAN AT PALING'S.
HEATRE Ri>Y A L, SYDNEY.
Lessee <& Manager . J., C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd
EVERY EVENING. AT. 8 -
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON pFtisfents the Most Infectious
Success of Seasons,
THE GIRL ITr iPH li TRAIN.
LURING ANDT LIVELY.
Showered with Applause and Enthusiasm at Every
Performance.
PLANS fT PALING’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
Direction : J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON yfresents
ETHEL IRVING,
England’s Greatest Actress, in Somerset Maugham’s
Enduring Success,
LA D Y E REDEE I C K.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Grokge Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING. ‘
A GIGANTIC SUCCESS!
GEORGE MARLOW presents, in cnnjunction with
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
HIS MAJESTY’S GUESTS.
A Musical Farcical Pantomimical Comedy,
POPULAR PRICES. PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
J H E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SP EH CEE’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction : C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.. M
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
gYDNEY GLACXARIUM.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY ~
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at, Nicholson’s (No extra Feel.
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarkct, Sydney.
Direction : E. J. KILPATRICK.
HOUSE OF CONTINUOUS EXCLUSIVE
PICTURES.
ALL AUSTRALIA.
“CROWNING GLORY” BIOGRAPH CONTEST.
P4O PRIZES.
For Entry Forms and all information address
ALHAMBRA THEATRE, SYDNEY
Rickards’ tivoli theatre.
General Manasrer : MR. JOHN 0. LEETE.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
EMERSON & BALDWIN, Club Juggling Comedians.
HENRIETTE & SELINA, Instrumental Duettists.
BERT LEVY, the Famous Artist Entertainer.
GEORGE THE Ist, the Greatest Trained Chimpanzee in
existence. Trained & presented bv DANDY GEORGE.
DAVE SAMUELS, Celebrated Hebr-w Comedian.
HENRY & HINDE, “The Cyclists."
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling's.
PE R A HOUSEL MkLBOCBNE.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
HANVARR & LEE, Comedy Artists.
IKE & WILL SCOTT, Versatile Comedians.
IRENE MILLAR, Singing and Dancing Comedienne.
WILLIE GARDNER, Ice and Roller Skating Champion.
JOHNSON & DEAN, Colored Singers and Dancers.
BARNEY ARMSTRONG & Kelly, Comedians.
THE FINNEYS, in Diving and Swimming Act.
Fred Bluett, Marcella Grey, Irving Sayles,
Les Warton, Marshall Crosby, Bright Sisters.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
JOHN McCORMACK
CONCERTS
(Th» Greatest Ballad Singer of the Day).
MELBOURNE ... NEW YEAR’S NIGHT
SYDNEY JANUARY 4 and 5
WELLINGTON... JANUARY 12
AUCKLAND JANUARY 18
Direction ~ .. H. N. SOUTHWELL.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee : GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC COMBINATION in
UNDERTWO ELA G S.
A Stupendous Production. Magnificent Cast.
Gorgeous Scenery, and. Costumes.
Prices as Usual. • Plan at Allan’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING. ' -
The Great Pantomime Extravaganza,
SI NR AH THE SAILOR.
A MAGNIFICENT AGGREGATION OF ARTISTS
A HOST OF NOVELTIES AND FEATURES.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
THE - KING’S THE AT RE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Wili.iam Andhrson.
EVERY EVENING.
MR. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S POWERFUL DRAMATIC
CO. in the New Naval Dramatic Novelty,
EN GLAND’S HOPE.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
y HEATKE ROYAE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD. presents
HILDA SPONG
in the Great Dramatic Spectacle,
EYEfiTWOMAN.
A UNIQUE AND REFRESHING ENTERTAINMENT.
Plan at Allan’s. PT" PRICES AS USUAL.
o
LYMPIA,
LYMPIA,
O L Y IVI P I A,
MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
. Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30,
, and EVERY EVENING at 8.
THE , GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
Lessees & Managers— Amalgamated Pictures Limited
EVERY EVENING,
m
Animated Pictures in Actual Natural Colors.
SPECIAL NOTE.—KinemaGPlor films are not hand-
colored films; they are actual photographs of Nature,
and the colors are imprinted in tne pictures;at the time
of photographing. ' PRICES: 3s. to 6d.
lA/ EST’S.PAL ATL MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEbl S PIOrUIiES„ THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West. .
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture' Worthy of Note always to he seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St„ Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGH Tat 3. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS ‘‘NTYCfuO^EE’’
PHOTOPLAYS
on tlie Marvellous " Mack ” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
O T. HILDA B E A C H.
o EVERY EVENING AT 8.30
J. & N. TAIT present
THE follies:
THE RECOGNISE!) LEADING .ALFRESCO SHOW
ON ST* KILDA BEACH.
-'Complete change of programme every Monday night.
PRICES: 1/6, -1/- and 6d.
Reserved Seats, 2/- at Allan’s and Haber’s.
dfh
ARE you
LICHTINC?
If you want a lighting
system that is easily man-
aged, requires no atten-
tion, is equally adaptable
for heating, cooking and
ironing, and gives a bril-
liant,, safe, reliable light
costing 2d. per hour for
800c.p., then write to-day
for literature of Brandt’s
Atmoslite Automatic
Safety Air-Gas Machine.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TWO FEATURES
IN
THE
HAND
JANUARY 1, 1912
TONE.
fh
Kife
The Black
Boxers
By
hugh d. Mclntosh
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
NORMAN LINDSAY.
dfh
dfh
dfh
Pages from Our Past,
No. 9.
The . .
"Affair” at Eureka
NATHAN F. SPIELVOGEL
Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
L—The First Stroke
of the Fight
“r\OWN with the Joes! Down
J with them! Don’t we pay the
licenses ? Down with ’em!
Ain’t that enough? Ain’t two-pun a
month enough? I bin chained, up-to
them logs three hours to-day while my
mate went to our camp for me license!
Is that fair?”
“No,” came a shout from the crowd
of diggers in high boots, clay-stained
moleskins and blue “jumpers,” who
were listening in the bar of the 'Vic-
toria Hotel, Armstrong-street, Balla-
rat, in the spring of ’54.
The stinking, smoky, whale-oil
lamps cast a sickly yellow light on the
PETEK LALOK —Commander-irvChief
fh
PRICE 6d.
All Newsagents.


CHALMERS CARS
ACKNOWLEDGE NO COMPETITOR.
1912 MODELS and PRICES—
30=36 H.P. New Model, 4-speed gear —self starter (air
pressure) —36-inch wheels —long stroke motor. Fully equipped
with hood, screen, five lamps, generator, horn, tools, jack, etc.,
£6OO
FULLY EQUIPPED.
20=30 H.P. Touring Car or Torpedo, unaltered for 1912.
This is the car of which we have sold 60 odd since Christmas.
Fully equipped as above.
£4 7 5
FULLY EQUIPPED.
20=30 H.P. Torpedo, 2=seater same construction as tourin
car, except II inches shorter in the wheelbase.
Fully equipped as above.
£445
FULLY EQUIPPED.
SEND FOR CATALOG. -*B
ROY W. SANDFORD,
(WE GUARANTEE SERVICE).
CHALMERS THOMAS EMPIRE,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
fhfh
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin—thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All g-row fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price l/=,
post free any where.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
mo s t
viciou s
dog or man without,
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, un escorted
ladies, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Hasmore
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great, amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced/ Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/»
£
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Egg— 1
IH||l
IlSlll
E Eg
d Q X >1
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle [Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious phzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before'purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/-=.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining' one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
fh
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the .most Useful
noveltiesob ain-
abie. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff born hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to i-ihut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general us u , also a superior rabbiter's knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Address—BOX 3, HAYM ARKET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write, for Price Lints, free upon application.
Branches—lll KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
Will Andrade « BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, 1s-
Post Free, is. 3d.
Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/6; Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, S/4 ; Macfadden's Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 : Macfadden’s
Sweethearts for Lives,'s/4; Wrestling Instructor, with 60 Photographic
Illustrations, 1/9; Bag Punching, lOd. ; Eoad Map of Victoria, 1/1 ; Sign,
Carriage and Decorative Pain tine, 2/6 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks,
illustrated, 6d.; Boxing and Self-Defence,' 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in
Australia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters,!/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1 ; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1 ;
Eight, Popular Farces, 1/1 ; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 / “How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1 ; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles,l/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 ; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edit ion, 3/6. posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish
Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete
Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/;
Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
STAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
T
*
niiuimiiii
iiiiin
ilium
itumi
mum >
fh
MOSPTOMLIES
m GERM-CARRIERS
Kill the eggs of these pests by using
HYCOL Disinfectant in your* home.
WASH FLOORS —FLUSH GULLEYS.
Non-poisonous. 18 times stronger than carbolic.
AGENTS-
N.S.W. Agents:
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St., Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
THE BEST BONUS-PAYINQ LIFE OFFICE IN THE WORLD. *
Next Distribution of Cash Surpfus as at 31st December, 1911.
All ordinary participating policies effected before that date will share in the Amount to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for the year 1910
Total Bonuses distributed
Accumulated Funds
Annual income
Insure now and participate in this year’s Cash Bonus.
Write for full particulars to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney ; or any District
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.,
General Manager and Actuary.
£847,607
£15,964,191
£27,100,000
£3,550,000
Office or Agent of the Society.
H. W. APPERLY,
Secretary.
WOULD SCREAM FOR
HOURS WITH ECZEMA
Baby a Dreadful Sufferer. Could Not Keep
Him from Scratching. Every Joint Af-
fected. Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment and He Is Well.
“Enclosed find my son’s photo, and I feel by writing these few lines to you
1 am only doing my duty, as my son was a dreadful sufferer from eczema.
At the age of two weeks he began to get covered with red spots on his legs
fh
fh
fhfhd
and groins, which mother thought was red gum
or thrush ; hut day by day it grew worse until
every joint and crevice were affected and baby
started screaming for hours day and night. Such
a thing as sleep was- out of the question. I took
him to two of Sydney’s leading doctors; one said it
was one of the worst cases he had seen, the other
did not think it so serious; one ordered ointment
for rubbing in, the other a dusting powder. I
followed their prescriptions for over four months
and still baby kept getting worse. I could not
keep him from scratching so great was his agony.
“When he was five months old I tried the
Cutieura Remedies, and I am very thankful to say
my baby is to-day free from all his suffering. His
groins were bleeding when I started, and other
parts affected were the lower part of his body, under the knees, arms, in arm
joints, eyebrows and neck; but after twice using Cuticura Ointment I began
to see a difference, and by the time I had used one tin, along with the bathing
with Cuticura Soap, baby was nearly cured. I still kept on using the Cuticura
Soap and Ointment, and now, thank goodness, he is quite well and, although
be is now 10 months old, has not had any further return of the trouble.”
(Signed) Mrs. G. Martin, 2 Knight St., Erskineville, Sydney, X.S.W..
March 31, 1911.
For more than a generation, Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment have
afforded the purest, sweetest, and most economical treatment for affections of
the skin that torture, disfigure, itch, burn, crust, scale and destroy sleep. A
single cake of Cuticura Soap and a box of Cuticura Ointment are often suffi-
cient. Sold throughout the world. Send to R. Towns & Co., Department
2L, Sydney, K.S.W., for a liberal simple of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-page
book on skin and scalp troubles.
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, with the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction ; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. . But there is one supremely effectual remedy,
but for which the world would have been a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopoeia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
for more than, a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
9
<7>
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works ;
Birmingnam, England.
rvMv
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
xa
f
MM
v ..
:
■
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, .
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7jlb. ; of 16-gauge, about ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
fh
Stevens’ “Little Krag,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel. 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, V-sigbt, length over all, 36in. ; weight about 3£lb.
Postage—l/6N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s. 6d.
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
©
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7£lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s
fhd
it
Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37iin., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford St.,
Sydney! Church St., Parramatta ; 113 King St., Newtown. r 4
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
NATURAL
ENO’S
HEALTH-GIViNG
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
iNViGORA TiNG
'J iQ [ ■: ns mh-w.th :n ;j -ii i »ni«r=re
K
YOU CAN CROW A MOUSTACHE.,
A man’s right is ,to look a man, and, no matter how manly he be in
nature, if he is unable to grow a Moustache his friends refer to him
slightingly, and hold him in great contempt. Are you one of these
men? USE CAP/LLARINE
and it will do as it has done for numbers of men these 30 years—grow
you a strong, handsome, vigorous moustache which will give you a self-
confidence to win the prizes of the world.
Price 10/6 Jar
Post Free
Anywhere.
Send for our Free
Illustrated Price List.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER— worn at night-will
make your Moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post Free.
CRAIi & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney. Established 30 Years.
15
s
L V
J
£5OOO
CASH
PRIZES.
NORMAN FRANK 8 CO.’S
Great PRIZE COMPETITION
Ist Prize ... £lOO cash.
2nd Prize ... £25 cash.
3rd Prize ... £lO cash.
4th Prize ... £5 cash.
Hundreds of Consolation Prizes -
Send your name and full address, and we will forward you Postage Paid
and absolutely Free of Charge our 6d. magazine, and Full Particulars of
this Great Prize Competition. So Easy a Child can Win these Prizes.
WRITE TO-DA Y.
NORMAN FRANK CO.
Commerce Buildings, Ash Street, Sydney.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
SPARKLETS
cZ
m 2.
o
a
Q
.<5
O
o.
O
Sx
0
«
«
2
/
FI
-3
Tore*
rv.
IUP’You never fully appreciate
an Australian thirst unless you
quench it luxuriously with
“SPARKLETS.” Whether you
live in the city or away back,
“SPARKLETS” are equally
invaluable ; for they enable you to
make refreshing soda-water instantly
and economically.
You provide cold water :
“SPARKLETS ” will do the rest .
N,B. —Try the LARGE “ C” SYPHON, 6/6.
Your Storekeeper will have one.


SVi
m
ok
<jjj
0
Dang e rs
I °f XMAS
FEASTING.
Biliousness 8 Sick Headaches.
DURING the festive season the good fare often tempts
one to excessive eating, which results in a sharp
bilious attack, sick headache or indigestion.
Because Bile Beans act directly by aiding digestion
and regulating the flow of bile from the liver, they are the
ideal and indispensable medicine for this season. Bile
Beans, being of purely vegetable origin, do not gripe or
weaken like fifty-year-old-mineral pills, but bring to the
stomach and liver just that natural assistance which is
necessary for the restoration of good health and appetite.
Mr. SAMUEL HILL, of Grey Street, South Brisbane,
says
“My stomach was in such a bad way that I could not
keep a particle of food down, and I lost nearly 281 b. in weight.
When I used to try to take anything in the way of food I would
vomit and retch something frightfully. I also had severe aching-
pains between my shoulders and over my hips.
“I was compelled to give up all idea of work, and but for
Bile Beans I believe I should not have been here now. An
acquaintance who had benefited from this great remedy was
so convinced that they would do me good that I was induced to
try them. I underwent a steady course of one box of Bile
Beans, and now I can eat and enjoy my food, the sickness and
pain has left me, and my strength is regained. I am never
without Bile Beans now, as they always keep me in good health,
and I strongly recommend anyone suffering as I did to try
them.”
The STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE
Bile Beans are un-
rivalled as a family
medicine. They are
mild in action, and
suitable for young and
old of both sexes. Bile
Beans are specially
valuable for liver
trouble, constipation,
biliousness, indiges-
tion, headache, bad
breath, debility, sick-
ness, loss of energy
and bad blood. Sold
by all chemists and
stores. Is. ljd. and
2s. 9d. per box.
He
cans
n.w. FOR
tuousness
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding; day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion* If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
My Funeral Hat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD never met him alive;
He was dead when I saw him first
A cadaver of sixty-five
About to be coffined and hearsed.
There was no one to go but me,
When the friend of my father died ;
I attended reluctantly,
And I fretted at his graveside.
I had purchased a sable hat,
And I cursed it with ev’ry breath ;
Like a keg on my head it sat,
Did that symbol of Grief and Death.
The sun glimmered white on the stones,
And the mourners I did not know ;
But mine were the heartiest groans,
As they sent the stranger below.
I lingered, in duty bound,
While with shovels they made his bed.
And deposited on the mound
The withering wreaths of the dead.
The red sun was about to set,
And my shadow, immense and flat,
Made me mutter and curse and sweat,
For It wore an outrageous hat!
Walking home by an eastward road,
Like a pirate of old I swore,
For my shadow tremendous glode
Like an idiot ghost before.
He was dead when I met him first —
Oh, most unmistakably dead !
And that hat was the very worst
That ever I put on my head !
Yet I wore that outrage of gloom
When he went from Life’s crowded
stage;
And, flaunting it there by his tomb,
I was ready to burst with rage!
Even now I feel hot and mad
When I think of that mess of woe!
The queer-hatted, gibbering lad,
And the body he did not know!
Deep down in the wardrobe ’tis stowed,
And upon it the moths grow stout;
When blue devils fill my abode,
I harry the old lid out.
Then Gloom like an antelope scuds.
(The neighbors don’t know what I’m at:
They simply hear crashes and thuds) ;
I leap on my funeral hat!
N.S.W.
KODAK.
“Floating.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SHOULD have known Henry instantly,
even if he had not been the first to
renew our old friendship with a large,
profane shout of welcome. Three additional
years of excessive beer had given a beetling
protuberance to his stomach, and perman-
ently flushed his fat, hairless face, but
otherwise he was unchanged. He was, if
anything, a trifle shabbier than of yore; his
second-hand beaufort coat might have orig-
inally garbed a giant, and his shirt and col-
lar clamored for the laundry, but the differ-
ence would not have been' marked by the
unobservant eye of casual acquaintance.
As in the days of old, he led me into the
nearest threepenny bar, and waited for me
to shout.
Henry ordered a pint, and asked me what
I was doing in Sydney. Lie listened with
sympathetic attention to my story of ill-
health and bad luck, but expressed astonish-
ment that one who had always been so
bowelless to needy friends should have come
to want himself. The fact, he said, restored
to him a lost belief in a just Creator.
“How much coin have you got left?”
he demanded.
“Four and six,” I answered. As a mat-
ter of actual fact I had a couple of sover-
eigns besides, but it would not have done to
let Henry know this, for the amount would
have represented comparative affluence to
him, and lie would have insisted on my shar-
ing it with him. Henry’s reproof of my
improvidence when he learnt I was staying
at the Llotel de Monaco was very severe.
He argued that to pay 4s. a day for a room,
when beds could be obtained for 6d., was
criminal extravagance. He intimated that
I would be in an involuntary sitting posture
by the following day if I did not husband
my capital. “Why,” he expostulated,
“there are many men in Sydney who are
leading a fast life on what you pay for a
bed. This won’t do.”
I knew it wouldn’t, but I explained to
Henry that in my weak state of health I
lacked the necessary energy to hunt round
for cheap lodgings.
Henry frowning] y considered the situgr
tion. “You must come to my diggings? in
Darlinghurst,” he said at length. “You
can raise half a sovereign on that ring you
are wearing. That will secure you a roofn
for a week, bed and breakfast, and Sunday
meals. I’ll arrange it with the old woman
who runs the hash-house —I have great in-
fluence with her.” _ ’
I felt Henry’s old domination overcoming
my common seuse, but I feebly resisted.
“Are your diggings clean?” I asked. ,
Henry was obviously hurt. “Cleanliness
is the religion of the house,” he said. “Have
you any luggage?”
“Three bags and a tin box —up at the
hotel.”
“And you talk about being hard up! It’ll
cost you three bob to get them away in a
cab, and you’ll have to give the flunkey a
bob to carry them out to the cab. That’ll
almost wipe you out. I’ll tell you what
we’ll do —we’ll cart them down on the
tram and save the money. You go up to
the hotel and get them downstairs, and when
the flunkey wants to call a cab for you.
tell him you are waiting for the carriage of
a friend. Then, when he is looking after
someone else’s luggage, I’ll come bursting in
and tell you the carriage is waiting round
the corner. I’ll grab hold of two of your
bags, and you follow with the others before
the flunkey can get to you. We will take
the penny tram to Darlinghurst. 4 hat
will save you 4s. 4d. You can shout again
and lend me a bob, and be 2s. lOd. in
pocket.” „ , , ~ , , T
It came off as Henry had said, but 1
could not help blushing as I caught the re-
proachful eye of the hotel porter fixed on
me. Henry, on the other hand, was jubi-
lant, and declared that by my moral courage
I had struck a blow at the iniquitous tipping
svstem which was sapping the manhood of
democratic Australia. The victory, he said,
clearly demanded another drink, and we had
it at my expense as soon as we got to Dar-
linghurst. .
Henry’s lodgings in Darlinghurst smelt
of stale stew. There was a swarm of in-
fants in the house. We sat down to tea
hi the kitchen —ten adults and six children
—I as Henry’s guest. The landlady asked
me if I took milk and sugar, and Henry,
who presided at the head of the table, over
a dish of sausages stewed in onions, assisted
me to a portion. Henry monopolised the
conversation, till he discovered that one of
the boarders was asleep with his head in
the sausages. He then haughtily withdrew,
requesting, my company upstairs.
“Drunken beast!” he ejaculated, as he
led the way to the upper regions; “this is
the result of unbending and coming down to
their level. I was looking forward to the
remainder of those sausages for my break-
fast. Mind you keep them at a distance.
This is your room.”
I eyed it dubiously. Respect for Henry’s
feelings kept me from flippantly remarking
that the l’eligion of the house was evidently
too sacred a thing for daily use. Henry
glanced around the apartment with some
pride. “This is my own little crib,” he said.
“I told the. old woman to give it to you. I
am going to sleep with a couple of the other
fellows. By Jove, she has been brightening
it up for you. She’s hung a text on the
wall.”
I glanced at “God bless our home” with-
out comment, and Henry took a seat on the
bed and asked me what I intended to do. I
hadn’t the least idea.
“Don’t think about it to-night,” said
Henry; “don’t let it worry you, and, above
all, don’t drink. Come out with me, and
I’ll see that you don’t spend more than
eighteenpence. That will be three pints
each, and you will have lOd. left. Men
have made a fortune on less capital. Then
get a good night’s rest, and we will discuss
your affairs in the morning.”
The following day was Sunday. I was'
awakened in the morning by Henry shaking
me. He was arrayed in a suit oi pyjamas
that might have been worn out by a dustman
in active service before they came into ins
possession. “Jump up and have a bath,
commanded Henry. “I have just had one —
very cold, but very bracing. Now I an,
dressed for the day. This is Liberty Han
here. Dress as you like. I’ll bring up
your breakfast, and we will talk tilings
over,”
VVe did so. It appeared my affairs had
caused Henry a sleepless night. "Sydney,
he said, "is the best place in the world to
float in, but you have to learn the ropes
first. Why, when I first came here I was
reduced to dossing in the Domain for weeks !
I assure you it’s a fact. It took me years i
before I got on my present wicket —it will
probably take you longer, because you
haven’t got my resources and adaptability.
Always make your 10 bob a week good
with the landlady, and you have a home.
And although you are extravagant you
need not throw away a shilling on lunch. Dor
3d. you can get as much counter lunch as
you want and a pint of beer. When you are
in funds you can patronise the od. bars—
it looks better, and it will really pay you
because, of the extra quality of the lunch. If
you must have tea you can get a very nice
little snack at lots of places for fid., but
I should advise you to wait for the hotel
supper and have another pint.”
“But I’ve got to earn the money to pay
for all this.”
Henry intimated that he was going to
put me in the way of doing so, though lie
frankly admitted he did not see his way
quite clear just then. He gave me to un-
derstand that floating was hampered by un-
usual difficulties in Sydney at the present
time, for divers reasons which he explained
at great length. Ordinary canvassing rac-
kets were played out. Then the city was
fuller of professional bummers than
ever he remembered it, and these para-
sites were living by tactics which were
greatly to the detriment of honest men. It
was only through his signal qualities that
he was able to float at all just now ; times
were so ,bad that several weaker colleagues
of his had entirely gone under, and were
almost dependent upon a trifle from his
bounty. He had generally managed to find
them a bob or two each week, but for the
last few weeks he had been reluctantly com-
pelled to refuse, on account of his own par-
lous condition. The need for action in his
own case was almost as imperative as mine,
and something would have to be turned up
the following day. But he had serene confi-
dence in his ability to meet the position.
“Whenever I’m right up against it, I always
manage to float,” concluded Henry. “Put
me in a corner and you bring out all my
best qualities. You’ll see to-morrow when
we .go down to the city and make a recon-
naissance in force.”
I accompanied Henry to the city the next
morning at his cdmmand. He was in fine
spirits, and informed me that the decks were
cleared for action. He halted on a busy
Pitt-street corner, and called upon me to
admire the strategic strength of the posi-
tion. “It commands a view of portions of
four of the busiest streets of Sydney. I can
think over things and keep an eye out at
the same time. There are a number of. men
in Sydney who owe me money.”
Henry walked backwards and forwards
across the footpath with his hand thrust in
his breast like Napoleon Bonaparte, whom
he physically resembles. He cogitated
deeply, but not abstractedly, for he continu-
ally swept the stream of traffic with a pierc-
ing gaze. At the end of half an hour he
insisted that I . should shout, pointing out
that, considered as capital. 4d. was just as
rood as lOd. The expenditure of 6d. was
also justified as an investment, because a
pint of beer would cause his brain to flow
and beget a brilliant scheme. Furthermore,
it would be an actual saving, for we could
(Continued on next page.)


HIDDEN DANGERS
Uric Acid is a deadly poison that is
produced in the human body, and it is
the duty of the kidneys to collect this
poison frorrt the blood, and to pass it
safely out of the system, together with
all waste water. But it does not take
much to set the kidneys back, and when
they get behind they cannot right them-
selves without help. The uric acid clogs
the kidneys, causing that dull, heavy
aching in the back, and sharp twinges
when stooping or lifting. It attacks the
nerves with neuralgia and sciatica. It
brings headache, dizziness, languor, and
disorders of the urine. Try a good
kidney medicine, if you have any of the
,above symptoms. There is nothing else
so prompt and effective as Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and this remedy
has no effect on the other organs,
except to drive out the uric poison that
interrupts their action.
"Gvery
Picture
Tells „
J\ Story
\
X
<
V
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET ON “DISEASES
OF THE KIDNEYS AND BLADDER
Severe Kidney Trouble
Cured by Doan’s Pills.
“A Redfern Man Thankful.”
Mr. James Higgins, 97 Great Buckingham-street,
Redfern, Sydney, says: “Some time ago I was'taken very
badly with kidney trouble. I don’t know how to account
for it, unless several accidents were to blame. I con-
sulted three doctors, and underwent treatment, and each
one, failing to do me good, advised me to go into the
hospital for an operation. They said my case was almost
hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance, as
one of the kidneys was in a very diseased state. I took
medicines of all sorts, the empty bottles alone bein'* worth
a considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was
in such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or
died. I had severe pains in the.back, giddiness, headaches
and scalding urine. I was completely done up, and
scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for
the'operation, when a friend asked me if I bad yet tried
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew of a
man who was as bad as I was, and had been cured com-
pletely and for good by these Pills. I postponed the
operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. A fortnight later I returned to work, and they
men there could not believe that the change-they-saw :
in me would ever have been possible. Thbrb is no doubt
it is wonderful. lam quite cured, and as fit for work as
a man could be.”
Six years later, .Mrs. Higgins says:—“The above
statement is true, every word, and I can now add the
important fact that my husband is still free of every
distressing symptom of lsidney trouble. His lasting cure
is proof positive that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will
cure serious kidney complaint.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2j() per botif
(six bottles, 15jj ) ;
0r from Fo s ter-
McClellan Co., 76
Pitt Street, Sydney.
have lunch at the same time. He could
smell the counter lunch on. I yielded.
As we came out of the hotel Henry’s eye
fell on an elderly man hoisting an umbrella
in the centre of the tram track. “There’s
old John!” he exclaimed, with a note of
joyful anticipation in his voice. “He’ll res-
cue the beleagured garrison. Wait here till
I breast him.”
I cannot truthfully say that old John ap-
peared glad to see Henry. He seemed to me to
cast a hurried glance round for an avenue of
escape when Hem-y bore down upon him, but
I must have been mistaken about that, for
Henry assured me subsequently of old John’s
deep attachment for him. There was an
air of fading prosperity about old John,
but he was probably still a long way off
bting penniless. He had the weak face of a
man who could not get rid of an impecunious
friend without shouting for him. There
was, to me, an embaiTassing pause as we
stood on the corner. The silence was
broken by old John —his name was Collett
when Henry introduced me —tentatively re-
marking : “I suppose it’s too early for a
drink?”
Henry remonstrated with old John for his
addiction to the pernicious habit of early
drinking, but said lie supposed he would have
to humor him. He led the way into the bar
and called for a pint. Old John paid for the
drinks with a two-shilling piece, and I saw
that Henry had noted the circumstance.
When the drinks were consumed Henry led
me aside, enjoining old John not to move
till we came back, under penalty of the loss
of his fi-iendship. Henry demanded my 4d.
from me in order to shout for old John, who,
he said, was a most valuable acquaintance,
and would sooner or later be able to put
something in my way. It was incumbent
upon us to retain old John’s respect by
shouting for him. One shout would do, and
then we could retire with grace. I urged
that 4d. was not sufficient for the pui-pose.
Henry turned on me a look of scorn, and
said I would never learn to float in Sydney.
He held out his hand, and I put the 4d. into
it. We returned to old John, and Henry
cordially invited him to drink up and have
another.
Old John assented with some surprise, and
the barman served the drinks. Henry
plunged his hand in his pocket, and there
was a pleasing chink of coin. Henry drew
out his hand with 4d. reposing on the palm.
“Strange,” he muttered; “I thought”
He went through his other pockets with
great care, with no better result, and turned
to me imperiously. “Here, you,” he said;
“have you got that bank draft of yours
cashed yet?”
I was about to stupidly ask what bank
■draft he referred to, but his warning eye
stopped me in time. I shook my head in-
stead.
Henry was exasperated at my neglect, and
said so. “Here you are, sroing about with
a £5O bank draft in your pocket which is no
good to anybody, while I am placed in an
awkward position through having chanced
my trousers this morning. Fortunately,
John is a friend. Old John, I am going to
take a liberty with you. Lend me a shil-
ling.”
Old John parted reluctantly. Henry paid
for the drinks and pocketed the change.
r i hen Henry gracefully turned the conversa-
tion by asking old John how business was.
Old John intimated that it was so-so. I
gathered that he was the patentee of a new
advertising scheme. Henry was anxious to
know whether the prospectus had been writ-
ten yet. Old John drew a much-worn sheet
from his pocket and Henry perused it at-
tentively.
“John,” he said; “this won’t do at all.
To their own merits modest men are dumb.
You are too modest. You should expatiate
more glowingly on the advantages of your
idea. I’ll write you up a prospectus that
will astonish you. I’ll do it for you for
nothing, John. At present I am a few
shillings in your debt, and if you like to con-
sider the position reversed when I’ve done
the job, why—. No thanks ; I am delighted
to be able to .do you a g oo d turn, John.”
Old John sighed, and appeared to be about
to speak, but he lacked the courage. We
left the hotel, and bade our friend farewell.
“A good old sort,” said Henry, watching
his retreating figure. “I’ll make his fortune
with my prospectus, and then I suppose he
will forget me. Well, well, it’s the w v of
the world.”
I timidly suggested that Henry should re-
turn me my fourpence, as he had not spent
it. tie was shocked at my sordidness.
“Why, good God!!” he exclaimed. “I
don’t think I deserve this at your hands.
You have had three drinks and three lunches
for a paltry 6d., and you want 4d. of it back.
I am surprised at you.”
I had not looked at it in this light, and I
hastened to apologise. But Henry darted
off round the corner before I had finished.
He returned breathless and indignant.
“There’s a man whom I’ve obliged scores of
times in my prosperous days,” he said bit-
terly ; “and now he refuses me a shilling.
Told me to go and drink from the horse
trough! Added insult to injury by sug-
gesting that I was an alcoholic fiend. Ah,
well, man’s ingratitude to man makes count-
less thousands mourn. I told the swab what
I thought of him. I said I would yet live to
identify his eel-eaten carcase when it was
dragged out of the harbor. I told him —
hullo, what’s that?”
I had pulled out my handkerchief to bury a
violent impending sneeze, and with it my little
capital, my all. my two golden sovereigns.
They fell side by side on the pavement, and
lay there, glittering luxuriously in the sun-
light. I made a quick stoop and a convul-
sive gx-ab, but Henry was there as soon.
He got one, and I got the other. Then
Henry straightened himself up and looked at
me. Contempt, reproach and sorrow were
mingled in that gaze.
"What does this mean?” he asked in icy
tones.
I lost my head under that look. I equivo-
cated, and was lost. I told Henry that I
didn’t know I had the money on me. Henry
pondei-ed over this explanation for a mo-
ment, and then burst into a glad laugh.
“Why, of course,” he said; “how foolish
of me to think my old friend capable of com-
ing the double like that. Why, I recollect
now how carefully you searched your pockets
when I asked you if you were down to 4s.
6d. Don’t you recollect the circumstance?”
I didn’t, but, as I was anxious not to hurt
Henry’s feelings again, I said I did.
“And you remember my placing myself in
such an awkward position this morning with
old John, when I thought I had left my
money in my other trousers pocket? Why,
it was in your pocket the whole time!”
“In my pocket!” I gasped.
Henry nodded beamingly. “.You know
how notoriously careless I always" was about
money, old chap? I had a couple of sover-
eigns on me when I came home on Saturday
night, and I did not miss them till this
morning. You had no money—you said so —
but you slept in my room. I went into your
room after you were in bed and slipped the
two quids into your pants, thinking they
were my own. Well, well, talk about
absentmindedness ! It’s as plain as a pike-
staff.”
I was too stunned to speak.
Henry turned on me a lustrous eye. “I
cannot tell you. old man,” he said, in tones
that vibrated with emotion, “how glad I am
that this trifle has turned up., For myself
I care nothing about money—my tastes are
simple—but I am now able to gratify my
hobby of helping a friend in distress. Yes,
old chap, you shall share with me—you keep
that sovereign you picked up, as a gift from
me. It will tide you over a day or two. A
sovereign will be plenty for me —after I
have paid the trifle I owe the landlady I will
still have enough for a box of strawberries
for a sick friend. But I advise you to get
yours changed. It is very unsafe to carry
gold the way you do. You might lose it
again.”
Henry led the way in, and called for a
pint.
ARTHUR J. REES.
Benson’s Rain-Bath.
(A MEMORY OF EARLY KALGOORLIE.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE were four of us in camp—four
dry, dusty men—and we would have
willingly given £1 apiece for a good,
drenching shower-bath. We told each other so
several times a day. Benson, who had only
recently arrived from the East, recklessly
said he would give £5. But there wasn’t the
slightest danger of him being taken at his
word. We were in Kalgoorlie—the Kalgoor-
lie of the water-buying days—and our total
supply consisted of one gallon, which we had
purchased that day from the storekeeper for
half a crown. It was the last of the store-
keeper’s saleable water, and he was reluct-
ant to sell it; but our necessity and the half-
crown overcame him. We retired triumph-
antly with the four quarts of moisture.
Thus situated, we lay by the tents under the
stars, and, led by the' bath-hungry Benson,
we talked wildly about washing and swim-
ming until it was time to turn in. Then we
lay down outside our. canvas residences, for it
was too hot even to sleep under cover.
Some time in the dark hours, a deafening
crash of thunder shattered our dreams, and
we awoke to find the night starless. An
immense pall of lightning-riven cloud had
spread itself across the heavens. The growl-
ing of thunder was almost continuous. Fit-
ful gusts of cool wind rushed upon us out of
the darkness. We reckoned a big rain storm
was close handy.
A wild shouting in the direction of Ben-
son’s tent drew our attention thither, and
an opportune flicker of sheet-lightning
showed us the reason. Benson, mother-
naked, was dancing on the sand like a care-
free savage. In the hollow of his left arm
he held a tin or gourd, and with his right
hand he was smearing the contents of the
vessel over his person. For one brief in-
stant this shameful spectacle seared our eye-
balls. Another instant, and darkness hid it
from us, and Benson’s voice became audible
above the noises of the approaching storm.
We listened fearfully. He was chanting a
sort of joy-song about soap and rain. Then
we understood. He had covered himself with
the camp’s supply of soft-soap in readiness
for the expected deluge.
The idea of using the heavens as a shower-
bath was an ingenious one, and just like
Benson. We rather envied him. During a
lull we heard him dragging the top off the
water-tank, and shouting like an overjoyed
lunatic. A second or so later the storm
leaped at us across the adjacent mullock
heaps, and we three broke for shelter through
the first pelting volley of red sand and
gravel. Lord! how it blew! The thunder
crashed, growled and muttered; the wind
whistled and moaned; and white, quivering
blades of lightning licked in and out ajnong
the heavy clouds like sword-blades through
a tapestry. All the forces of the sky seemed
to be gathering together for a fright-
ful onslaught on the earth. The far
echoes of the thunder were like the
sullen roll of drums calling up re-
serves from the far horizon. And all the
time the mad wind whirled and shot the red
sand and gravel across the camp in savage
gusts. It went on like that for at least an
hour. Then suddenly the authorities above
changed their minds about the rain; they
turned off the lightning, dismissed the thun-
der, blew the clouds gently away, and let
the wind die. We three emerged into a night
of beautiful stillness, set with bright, dry
stars.
A moan of agony greeted us. It was Ben-
son. We found him sitting on the ground,
his elbows on his knees and his two hands
grasping his ears. When we spoke to him
he didn’t raise his head. From what he said
we gathered that he wanted to. but that his
beard was stuck to his chest —with soap and
dust. I will never forget Benson covered
with soap, and the words he said in that dry
• hour before the dawn.
R. TYLEY.


ďfh
fh
fh
Oil Engine
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
f
No
Ignition
makes the following claims upon your attention :
r—lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
' liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
Tiie Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
ƒh
Live in Comfort
in the Hot Weather
IT COSTS VERY LITTLE FOR OUR FANS.
THEY RUN FOR SEVERAL HOURS for Id.
W. G. WATSON 8 CO., LTD.,
171 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
LIKE
If you’re contemplating engaging some firm to remove your furniture—store it
remove luggage, or do any carrying work—decide now that you will engage us.
Our phone numbers are : City 1290, Central 476, 2028 and 4012, and we’ll give
a quote and prompt attention immediately.
Sanders, Sutton & Whitehead Ltd.,
Head Office—43 King Street, Sydney.
DEPOTS : Dulwich Hill, Chatswood, Mosrhan, Waverley, Burwood, Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly
FARMERS FRIEND
Guaranteed 2 Years.
fh
This is our 2-h.p.
Hand Portable £n
Oil
ENGINE
Ottd Four Cycle Type.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES
Qet prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense sale,
and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
2-h.p. Stationary, £25; Portable, £32
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f,o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit.
Long Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
"5.,49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 539 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
New Digestions for Old
—strength tor debility—cheerfulness for despondency—health for ill-
health—such are the good results following a course of Beecham’s
Pills. If you are suffering from indigestion or any of the complaints to
which it gives rise you will find the World’s Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least,
has been the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the past three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation are some of the many disorders from which you may find relief
After Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 j (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS In need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. frfd. McWilliam. Manager.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
■ AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DiMNEFORDSi
Magnesia
fhfh
dfh
dfh
fh
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
ESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
A Simple, Sale and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS!
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Coarse ol my True HalMlrowlng Compound*
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with failing hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of ' such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This led him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. Ido not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far
the cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. D 13,107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.


ARCHITECTS specify
MACK PARTITIONS
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACH LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
TELEPHONES.
1 11 ■■■ - - ™
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices.
Dynamos, Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing In Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AHD
GENUINE BALATA.
fhd
fh
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a iruard ayainst inferior
imitations, look (or the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Ciroular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
fh
99
Engines and Ammonia
The Most Extensively Used Indicator on the Market.
LARGE STOCK OF INDICATORS and ACCESSORIES CARRIED.
SELLERS’ PATENT PORTABLE DYNAMOMETERS
For ascertaining the Brake or Effective Horse-power of
Steam, Oil or Gas Engines and Electric Motors.
M
■l
82 Pitt St.
;
Prell’s Buildings, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Cmy &Cm
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
fhfh
Gordon St
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
I •
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
AUSTIN
OIL ENGINES
self-starting
and STOPPING.
PREMIER
ACCUMULATORS.
an *ihnv
NOX
AV
307-11 KENT STREET* SYDNEY.
454 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
For Modern Machine Shop Equipment,
fh
HIGH-GRADE ENGINEERS’ TOOLS.
Screwcutting Lathes, Milling Machines and Cutter Grinders,
Shaping, Drilling, Planing, Screwing, Sawing and Grinding
Machines, in Stock, and
ALL ENGINEERS’ REQUISITES. Write for Price Lfets.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
REDUCE YOUR COSTS
BY USING
TILCHMAN’S PATENT AIR COMPRESSORS
VOLUMETRIC
EFFICIENCY
GUARANTEED.
Over 2750 in use
As Supplied to British Government.
Sole Australasian Agents i
ROPE, BELT,
STEAM or
ELECTRICALLY DRIVEN.
N.
IDGE, LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
