

The EMBODIMENT OF
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
uhjiuojoj
McLaren
Traction Engines.
The Finest Hauling Locos.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., AtWaldo.
JBCQBS.A.Jrg.T.
3SB»
fiadleys Orient fiotel.
uhjiuojoj
Take it back.
I must have-
HUTTON’S
uhjiuojoj
uhjiuojoj
IONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantkkd.
</. C. Ludlowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
CHUBB'S SAFES '
fob JEWELLERS.
TUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
ily nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
organs.
HANSENS
J
l_
unket,
uhjiuojoj
For INDIGESTION
antl DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
ojjls (jii/tf/yiAJL/ (aj (jULfULri/ tUfiy ~6e*Cz
QumMAj luv6\r/6u%t jPoAtu/y Pcuj&ts' /£%/).
Vs>'
&
S
s
V*
V* s S>
K
0
v
6
v
<o
&
<b
&
O
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
DRINK
BECK’S LAGER B
The Roofing' that has Stood the Test of Time
MALTHOID
Being' Absolutely Rain, Storm and Weatherproof.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.—D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE? CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
uhjiuojojuhjiuojoj
THE*~CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
jßojfatVirtue£tA
Machinery Merchants,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office), SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BLACKSTONE
OIL ENGINE .
New Way Benzine
Air Cooled Engine .
DAVEY PA XIV? AN
STEAM PORTABLE ENGINE
STEAM TRACTION ENGINE
SUCTION GAS PLANTS .
IMPERIAL
OIL TRACTOR
For Ploughing and
Agricultural Traction
HELIDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
D2WHUR3T 8 HALLORAN, Ltd..
Ajnts.
The Bulletin
V 01.32 No. 1636.]
[Thursday, June 22, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A Bftr BOOK SALE IN
BIGGEST
A Selection from Our Second-Hand
Tables. Full Lists Now Ready.
Bouatt, J.: Forty Years of Music—lB66-1905; 16/-
for #/-, posted 6/4.
Bocsy, H. F.: Sixty Years of Journalism; 3/6 for
1/6, posted 1/10.
Oarnegie, A.: The Empire of Business; 8/- for 1/6,
posted 1/9. . ''' ' . -
Cur., Edmund; Father and Son —-A Study of Two
Temperaments; 12/- for 6/-, posted 5/6.
Long, A.: Letters to Dead Authors; 3/- for 1/6,
posted 1/8.
Pen, Patron and Public: A Critical Survey; 6/- for
a/6, posted 2/9.
Russefi, <3. W. E.: An Onlooker’s Note-Book ; 9/- for
8/-, posted 3/4.
Saloeby, C. W.: Evolution, the Master Key; 7/6 for
3/6, posted 4/-.
Sdkoby, C. W.: The Cycle of Life according to Mod.
Science; 7/6 for 8/6, posted 4/-.
SiSvsr Domino ; 3/6 for 1/6, posted 1/10.
Van#«, Rev. Father: Society, Sin and the Saviour;
3/S for 1/6, posted 1/9.
Woodhead, O. S.: Bacteria and Their Products; 3/6
for 2/-, posted 2/4.
Wells, H. G.: Nerw Worlds for Old; 3/6 for 2/6,
posted 2/9.
Fraser, J. F.: Australia the Making of a Nation;
3/6 for 1/6, posted 1/9.
Allingham, fc: A Diary; 14/6 for 4 /-, posted 4/6.
Bernhardt, Sarahs Memoirs, with many Portraits:
18./- for 6/-, posted 6/6.
Burghley, The Great Lord: A Study in Elizabethan
Statecraft. By Martin Hume; 91- for 3/6.
posted 4/-.
Cardigan Countess, My Recollections; 12/6 for 4/-
posted 4/4. ’
Carter Thomas T.: Life and Letters. With Portraits
and Illustrations; 12/6 for 5/-, posted 5/6
Be Goncourt, E.: The Confidantes of a King—the
Mistresses of Louis XV. .2 vols.; 18/- for 61-
posted 6/6. - ' ’
Madame de, and Her Loners. By Francis
Gnbble; 9/- for 3/6, posted 3/10.
ROBERTSON'S, BOOKSELLERS, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
udson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes/'
uhjiuojojuhjiuojoj
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
Thk Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bactericidal}}
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JVJUHE9" do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
alter meals.
uhjiuojoj
uhjiuojoj
COMPANY, LTD., w york stbgbt, s*onsy.
THE RED PAGE
The Best Australian Prose
Although the number of authors draw*
upon for this competition is not great,
the passages received are numerous and var-
ied, and many of them are of nearly equal
merit.
It was uot expected that our young litera-
ture would afford any of those jets of ele-
vated diction which arise naturally out of
the good prose of English masters. Several
of the paragraphs sent in. however, were the
showy imitation purplb, the attempts at line
writing which looked highly-colored against
their drab surroundings.
Style is a volatile spirit which escapes de-
finition. The text books on rhetoric will ex-
plain what it isn't; hut let us^ay—vaguely
—ja good style is that which appeals most
strongly to the leader's imagination. It may
appear in short, stabbing sentences, or long,
billowy periods; it may be ornate, like Bus-
kin’s, archaic like Morris’s or Hewlett’s;
crammed with metaphor like Meredith’s, or
as simple as Huxley’s. Whatever it may be,
it is not a garment that anyone else can re-
move his own substance, for it is of
the very texture of the thought itself.
A sentence should not exceed the normal
length which enables it to be carried safely
on a single breath of the speaker. A para-
graph not always be a fair test of an
author’s quality; but, as a rule, the writer
can add grace to force in its compass, and
display himself at his best. These being
granted, and the maxim de gustibus being
remembered, it appears from the competitive
paragraphs that Marcus Clarke is the writer
of the best prose of Australia. Of the many
paragraphs taken from his novels and minor
writings, this is selected as the best: —
In the great crisis of our life, when, brought
face to face with annihilation, we are sus-
pended gasping over the great emptiness of
death, we become conscious that the self
whiebi we thought we knew so well has
stwwnge and unthought-of capacities. To
describe a tempest of the elements is not
easy, but to describe a tempest of the soul
s impossible. Amid the fury of such a tem-
pest, a thousand memories, each bearing in
its breast the corpse of some dead deed whose
influence haunts us yet, are driven like
feathers before the blast, as unsubstantial
ind unregarded. The mists which shroud our
self-knowledge become transparent, and we
are smitten with sudden, lightning-like com-
prehension of our own misused power over
our fate
Marcus Clarke —For the 'Term of His
Natural Life.
The prize, therefore, goes to the sender —-
Mrs. Howe of the Brisbane Girls’ High
School.
Here follow some of the other paragraphs
which best stand printing alone:—
THE WOOING OF THE BUTTERFLY.
When the pair meet, what time the *fan-
cies of the butterflies lightly turn to thoughts
•f love, he swoops impetuously towards her
and rises in a graceful curve, seeming to
enchant her with the display of his 'colors.
She forthwith amends her staid behaviour,
and begins a quivering, fluttering flight, ris-
ing and falling with gentle and rhythmical
grace. He, hovering near with rapid wing
movements, harmoniously responds to her
undulations. Still maintaining her coy con-
tours, she floats away over the tree tops, or
descends among the ferns and bushes, past
the burnished blue berries of the native gin-
ger, while with quaint courtliness he pays
his compliments and bewilders by his
audacity. As the amorous dalliance pro-
ceeds, he flits in brilliant spirals round and
before her, and again resumes his tremulous
flight, consonant with her emotional flutter-
ittgs.
C. It. Banfield— Confessions of •
Beachcomber.
Would it have been the Soul of Man and
none higher that gave spoken and written
word to the noblest precepts of human na-
ture? For the deeper you sound it the more
noble it seems, in spite of all the wrong, in-
justice; sin, sorrow, pain, religion, atheism
and cynics in the world. We make laws
for the protection of Society—or Property,
or Beligion, or what you will—and we pay
thousands of men like ourselves to protect
those laws and see them carried out, and we
build and maintain expensive offices, police-
court-houses and gaols, for the pro-
tecting and carrying out of those laws, and
the punishing of men-—like ourselves—-who
break them. Yet, in our heart of hearts,
we are antagonistic to most of the laws, and
the Law as a whole, which we regard as an
Asa, and to the police magistrates, and the
judges. And we hate lawyers and loathe
spies, pimps and informers of all descrip-
tions, and the hangman with all our soul.
For the Soul of Man says, Thou shalt not
refuse refuge to the outcast and thoy shalt
not betray the wanderer.
And those who do it we make outcast.
Henry Lawson —"Wanted by the Police.”
If ever men fought giants in the Olden
Times, men still fight giants to-day. If
miracles came to pass, they come to pass
still. If there was adventure in the old
days, if brave deeds were done, if kind and
courtly actions, noble thoughts, gentle w r ords
were common, they are still so. We are too
close up to our own lives to see all that is
in them. If you look at a far-off range of blue
mountains, you will see their whole shape
and form in a way that is impossible when
you are close beneath them. There is still
splendid adventure in this world of ours;
there is still room for the old brave deeds,
the old kindness, courtesy, high thinking,
gentleness. There is not much change,
when you come to think about it. Men and
things, day and night, summer and winter,
are as they were a thousand years ago. We
live differently in details; but we live only
while we breathe, as our fathers lived, and
we die as they died, when we can no louger
breathe. We are just the same, bones and
blood, ‘body and soul. If we are changed,
only the good God knows it.
J. H. Abbott —William Dumpier.
Faster and fiercer now fly the sun-shafts,
and heavier is the fall of the dissolving glory
of the'jewel time. A quiver along the tree-
tops. rather as of something departing than
coming, and a momentary collapse of all
keener delight. The radiant glory of that
day is past. Few such days in any year of
any life. And it has been sadly illusive.
The deepest soul inspirations have taken in
but driblets of the full volume.
Francis Myers—“A Bush Symphony” in
The Lone Hand.
The Fizzer was due at sundowm, and for
the Fizzer to be due meant that the Fizzer
would arrive. The Fizzer is unlike every
other type of man excepting a bush mail-
man. Hgrd, sinewy, dauntless and endur-
ing, he travels day after day,, and month
after mouth, practically alone —"on me Pat
Malone,” he calls it—with or without a
black boy, according to circumstances, and,
five trips out of his yearly eight throwing
dice with death along his dry stages, and vet
at all times as merry as a grig and as cliir-
ruppy as a young grasshopper. With a
light-hearted “So-long, chaps!” he sets out
from Katherine on his thousand-mile ride,
and with a cheery, “What ho, chaps. Here
we are again!” rides in within five weeks
with that journey behind him.
Mrs. Gunn--—ll'e of the Never-Never.
The Australian autumn plays an original'
duet upon our moods, wherein, while Nature
pipes her full, joyous soprano, ancestral
Memory, reading from the score of Old
World literature, Weaves a sad contralto of
minor chords. Right out in the bush,
autumn is only the spring returned, but
arbund the busy haunts of men she wears
the northern garlands of the dying year.
The bronzing creeper of Virginia flashes here
and there a gold and crimson leaf, premoni-
tory of its scarlet flare for the year’s sunset.
In every orchard the trees, with yellow, ban-
ners, are waving a brave adieu to the scenes
•f_ their beneficent year’s toil, straight-
ening their unburdened limbs for the winter's
repose. The last of the apples and the great
golden quinces gleam out a reminder that
the melancholy of the northern autumn is
for the season of plenty past. But with us
autumn’s imported pageantry of woe can
arouse no feeling more personal than an
.•esthetic shade of sorrow, “sad as the last
line of a brave romance.” For how can it,
when the plenteous autumn rains have
wakened again the music of water along all
our thirsty creeks, when the ploughman is
out with his team the whole day long to get
the. moist earth delved, and the soft light of
their dumb pleasures shines in the eyes of
the cattle as they nibble once again the
sweet siiceulence of the velvet herbage?
The Age (Melb.), 19/4/’O3.
Amongst the other passages received were
extracts from Kingsley’s Geoffrey Hamlyn,
novels by Ada Cambridge, Rolf Boldrewood,
Louis Becke, A. Dorrington, and stories in
The Bulletin Story Book and recent Bulle-
tins —most of which depended upon their
context. Also extracts from Barton’s His-
*orV °/ N.8.W., a speech by Parkes, Rev. J.
J. Malone’s article on Gordon in Austral
Light , “The Wattle River” in Heart of the
Rose,” Amy Mack’s Bird Calendar, Bean’s
On the Wool Track, and a number of news-
paper articles. Nearly all of these were too
long. One enthusiast sent the whole “Death
of Judy” scene from Ethel Turner’s Family
at Misrule.
A few writers of fine quality were neg-
lected by the extractors. Still, sufficient has
been done to show that although verse has so
far attracted the best of our imaginative
writers, and for a while the prose of
Marcus Clarke stood alone, there are now a
good many writers of prose that is well-
balanced, clear and sometimes beautiful.
Plays for an Operating Theatre
Eugene Brieux, member of the French
Academy, is not well known in English-
speaking countries, as his plays are too un-
pleasant for their theatres. Brieux is a re-
former. He uses the drama as a sword to
slash at abuses. Since 1890 he has produced
15 plays—one exposes the evils of employ-
ing provincial wet-nurses for Parisian chil-
dren, another is an arraingment of divorce;
one attacks the French judicial system, an-
other explains the futility of organised char-
ity—and so on. Some of the later plays are
merely pathological discussions. They don’t
mind that sort of thing in France, hut in
Britain plain-speaking on social diseases is
barred. Mrs. Grundy reigns, and has decreed
that in drama or fiction Society’s drainage
system niust not be mentioned. Accordingly
the British Censor of Plays refused permis-
sion for the performance of Brieux’s plays.
Thereupon Bernard Shaw, also a writer of
“unpleasant” plays, waxed indignant, and
vowed that he would have some of Brieux’s
plays translated and published, with the in-
dispensable preface by himself.
G.B.S. has made good, A. C. Fifield
(London) sends the volume —Three Plays
hy Brieux, with a Preface by Shaw. It is a
book that will startle the average reader,
and probably do him good. This French-
man Talks at him relentlessly about his cant,
his immorality, his diseases, and other things
the Comfortable man prefers to ignore.
The three plays translated for this vol-
ume are Damaged Goods. The Three Daugh-
ters of .1/. Du gout, and two versions of
Maternity. The last is a counterblast to
those who have shouted at the poor to multi-
ply and increase the supply of food for
powder.
Dr. Hourtin : I only ask that the poor
should have few children and the degenerate
none. No child ought to be brought into
the world handicapped by illness or want.
Brignae: And as the result of your pre-
cautions our country would fall in point of
population to a fifth or a tenth-rate Power.
Hourtin: History teaches us that not even
military supremacy belongs to the largest
nations. M. de Marigny’s reflection, not
mine. . . .And when you have a moment just
consider how Society behaves to the mothers
of whom it demands children. You’ll find
that an entertaining subject, unless it makes
you cry.
Damaged Goods is a lecture on syphilis in
relation to marriage, spoken through images
with phonographs inside.
There may come a time when people will
go to the theatre for instruction as the stu-
dent goes to the university, when society’s
diseased members and institutions will be
placed on.the operating-table, and the cancer-
ous growths exhibited by the dramatic sur-
geon. Brieux will then be out of date, but
honored as a pioneer of clinical drama. If
such a time should' come, it will not last
long, as the reaction in favor of “legs
and tomfoolery” would begin quickly.
Shaw’s preface to these plays contains
wilder assertions than usual. He proclaims
Brieux as “the greatest writer France has
produced since Molibre.” The majority of
the French people, he says, are not only in-
capable of fine art, but resent it furiously.
What they like to read is the police intelli-
gence, especially the murder cases and di-
vorce cases. The invented murders and di-
vorces of the novelists and playwrights do
not satisfy them because they cannot believe
in them. To produce this belief the writer
must disguise and even discard the arts of the
man of letters, and assume the style of the
descriptive reporter of the criminal courts.
As an example of how to cater for such
readers we may take Zola’s Bete JHuniaine.
It is in all its essentials a simple and touch-
ing story like Provost’s Manon Lescaut.
But into it Zola has violently thrust the
greatest police sensation of the nineteenth
century, the episode of Jack the Ripper.
To such readers, he says, the formula of
tragedy had Come down from ancient times
when, in order to make life seem tragic,
something dreadful had to happen, and some-
body had to die. “The tragedy of modern
life is that nothing happens, and that. the
resultant dulness does not kill.” Brieux
threw over the traditional forced catastrophe
uncompromisingly
He was as scientific, as conscientious; as
unflinching as Zola, without being in the
least morbid. He was no more dependent
upon horrors than Molihre,. and as sane in
his temper.
He may be all that, but in faithfully por-
traying “the resultant dulness” he has failed
to make drama. Magnificent as a muck-
raker, but no artist.
The name of Molihre suggests barbed
satire that wounded Evil and rankled there,
laughter that blew pretentiousness out of
existence, bright, witty dialogue and dramatic
action. Brieux, brought into momentary
comparison by this book, suggests only dul-
ness and ugliness.
This book emphasises the remark of J. M.
Synge in his preface to The Playboy of the
Western World : “on the stage one must have
reality, and one must have joy, and that is
why the modern intellectual drama has
failed.”
■■ ■ ■»
This is the day of the cheap book. That
“Home University Library” referred to here
a few weeks ago is selling like fiction ; and
the first volumes have arrived of a new series
of shilling books issued by Methuen and
Go. Stanley Weyman’s tinder the Red
Robe needs no advertisement; it is now in
its 23rd edition. Some volumes to come
are Wilde’s De Profundis and Selected
Poems, G. Balfour’s Life of Stevenson, and
an excellent view of The Condition of Eng-
land, by C, F. Masterman.
Sunny Australia
Archibald Marshall, who visited Australia
in 1000 as special commissioner of the London
Daily Mail, has expanded his newspaper art-
icles and given them a little more permanent
form as a book — Sunny Australia (Dym-
ocK’s).
It does not pretend to be more than a
journalist’s' impressions and recollections of
this country, but it would have been a better
book if Marshall had arranged his material
in some logical order, and cut out the repe-
titions. lie says on p. 211: “I have written
nothing yet of the hospitality of Australian
clubs,” although the reader has met on
p. 9 and elsewhere with glowing eulogies of
Australian clubs. The chibs treated him so
well, in fact, that he saw Australia through
a rosy mist created by dinner parties, motor
picnics, and other entertainments. Every-
thing in Australia is lovely:—
Australians are commonly reported to
possess some faults to balance their obvious
virtues, but I can unashamedly confess my-
self blind to them. After my experience I
can see only the virtues.
Australians have a positive genius for
hospitality. 1 have never met with anything
like it in the world,
He is more than generous in returning
thanks. Besides the numerous individual
hosts who are mentioned, the waitresses, the
squatters, the children, the women, the in-
dustries, the roads anu the Bush all receive
lavish praise.
It is roses, roses all the way with only one
or two thorns of criticism. The Bulletin.
it seems, offended the dear man because of
its dislike of ceremonial and “honors from
the crown.” Alas, it will take a procession
of Carlyles to/clear the British mind of cant
about such things, and fragments of the Bri-
tish atmosphere still hang about the clubs
from which Mr. Marshall viewed Australia.
He is inclined tq think that we are still in
the grossly material stage, and are not cul-
tivating the finer feelings. Although “the
fact that man does not live by bread alone
has taken no great hold of the imaginations
of Australians,” we are fond of poetry “of a
sort,” and he mentions the huge popularity
bf Gordon and Patersoii.
Superior. I think, in quality is the work
of Mr. Henry Lawson, who writes both
verse and prose, and will, unless I am much
mistaken, he accounted the greatest of all
the Australian writers up to the present
time. -> \.
If Sunny Australia is read on the Other
Side its favorable account of our industries
may induce intending emigrants to come this
way.
Songs from m Hammock , by Dunstan
Shaw (Penfold and Co., Sydney), are too
slight to deserve publication in book form.
The idea in “To a Wattle Tree” is good-
Yesterday
A nymph in ancient loveliness
I came across —-but you would say
A wattle tree! ,
but clumsily handled, and squashes itself in
the last lines: — ' . . <
Oh, be a Greek! Oh, be a Greek!
The gods are living! lam sure
Within, our purple bush they seek
Tlieir ancient empery restore.
An,airy trifle or two suggest possibilities ;
this, for instance: —
A moon came out of a mist
As they kissed,
And the moon was new.
They kissed, and whispered a boon;
And the moon
In a mist withdrew.
Dunstan Shaw should now try Songs from
a Deal Box, or something firmer than s a
hammock.
* • * *
“A.V.” (Q.) suggests that Australian
teachers should include Australian books
among their prizes to school children, and
mentions these':—
Banfield : Confessions of a Beachcomber.
Le Souef.: Wild Life in Australia.
Bean: On the Wool Track.
They are suitable for boys in senior classes.
In N.S.W. schools many of the teachers
present as prizes for girls
Mrs. Gunn: We of the Never-Never.
Amy Mack: Bushland Stories.
Emerson : Santa Claus and the Sun-Dial
and stories by Ethel Turner, Lilian Turner,
Mary Grant Bruce and Winifred James.
The only Australian books for boys that have
been used are those of Alex. Macdonald.
* * * •
“S.T.S.” : Since the man who pretended to
know Sydney asked, “Who keeps the pub
there now?’’ nobody has come along with
such a quaint idea of it as one Andrew
Soutar shows in a new novel, The Island of
Test. His hero landed from an English
steamer on the “landing-stage,” where friends
awaited him with horses, and they started
straight away on “a 30-mile ride, over pretty
stiff country,” to Dingo Flatts. The genial
host told the new-chum never to argue with
any station hand. “Hit hard, on the chin
for preference. We are pretty close to the
primitive out here.” (And the story is quite
modern.)


C Xatfyayfacdefasfoje
Anthony Horderns’ for Fitted Bag's
No. 1898X— Ladies’ Fitted Dressing Cases, Black-backed
Brushes, 11/6, 13/6, 15/=, 20/= to 40/- each.
No. 1895 X Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Cases,
Ebony-backed Brushes, 21/=, 27/6, 32/6 to 50/- each.
m
No. 1896X— Ladies’ Fitting Dressing Rolls, White Xylonite
Brushes, 13/6, 17/6, 21/=, 25/=, 30/= each.
uhjiuojoj
No. 1898X— Ladies’ Fitted Dressing
Black-backed Brushes, 11/6, 13/6, 15/=,
40/= each.
Cases,
20/= to
No. 351 X —The Grosvenor Leather
Brush Case, containing one each Hair,
Cloth and Hat Brush, also Comb and
Mirror, 22/6, 25/-
No. 18430—Pair Gent.’s Silver-backed Hair Brushes and Comb, in Solid
Leather Case, Stiff Bristles, Plain Concave Backs, 30/-, 38/6.
■Hr?/
ifiSilli^
i
No. 188SX—Ladies’ Fitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-backed Brushes,
21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, to 60/- each.
m
K 1
M
I
SftMMUfclttVumm
No. 1889 X— Ladies’ Fitted Dressing Cases, White Xylonite-backed
Brushes, 17/6, 21/=, 25/=, 30/= to 40/= each.
L
' - - v
\ Jfc.
'4M. TtT_
No. 1897X—Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-baoked
Brushes, 3 sizes, 18/6, 25/-, 32/6 each.
1
»
. v( —f-T.
1893X- Ladies’ Pitted Dressing Cases, White Xylonite
Brushes, 22/6, 27/6, 30/= to 60/- each.
No 1891X—Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-backed Brushes, 21/-,
25/=, 30/=, 35/-, 40/- to 80/= each.
smi
r '
No. 1894X— Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-backed Brushes, 13/6,
17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/- each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
£
Rent Brewery, Sydney
c
Mir
Vlif ,l
ss*
'm
8»s
k
i&f
1
ii
;V .
ACICI
YSTERY
u
SSSI
f
A.tS*X>
Lirtm
fit
H
the use of our
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by
Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono-rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
i-T i i i rf
pCO
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting' fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
The Wonderful Plate-Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick,
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
uhjiuojoj
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons’
Infants' Powders
for the
little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fret-
fulness and the many
ailments common to infancy
Powders Recommended by H.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF HOHENLOHE.
VON-REUX LEBEN, Marshall of the Court to H.R.H. the Duke of Saxe Coburg,
Duke of Albany, Winter Palais, Gotha, writes“ With thanks for your sending Infants’
Powders, I have the honour to let you know that the Powders are recommended
by H.R.H. The Princess of Hohenlohe, for my own children."—January ii, 1910.
ASHTON & PARSONS’
INFANTS’ POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless—they cool the gums—comfort the child—produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep- render teething quite easy—prevent pain and disorder-
are pleasant to the taste—are mild and gentle in action—may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe —and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
uhjiuojoj
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H R.H. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H R H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
uhjiuojoj
pip Ashton S’ Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless “9Q
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, 1/1J; 60 Powders, 2/9;
100 Powders, 4/6. To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS: ASHTON & PARSONS. LIMITED, LONDON. E.O, ENGLAND.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or ot
Freehold dnd C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
.of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Directo
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
Will Anprape »* BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism,
and
Clairvoyance
An Illustrated
Guide for the Amateur,
describing the various
methods adopted by
professors both before
and after Mesmer, and
showing: how the mystic
power may be developed.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1'; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
WB-AND ANY BOOK
YOU VYANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
STEVENS
“LITTLE KRAG” RIFLE NO. 65
uhjiuojoj
BOLT ACTION. SIMPLE CONSTRUCTION.
Weighs 3X pounds. For .22 Long Rifle R. F. Cartridges.
STEVENS RIFLES hold more Records for accuracy than all other
makes combined.
Order
STEVENS
from your
Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[4
CLEMENTS TONIC CURED
Read this remarkable letter
and send for this medicine.
The following is a letter received from Air. fohn L. England, iBj a Cuba
Street, Wellington, New Zealand, and though the subiect of it lives far away
it is none the less the true story of a great physical resurrection from the greatest
form of ill-health to one of splendid strength. All sick men or women should
read this testimony, and benefit by the reading :
Clements Tonic Ltd.
“I feel it my duty to mankind in general to let you publish this, what I consider
as a remarkable cure. Three years ago I was badly crushed in an accident on the
wharf in Wellington, and I never earned or was fit to earn a week’s wages for a
period of 16 months. After that time I commenced to earn a little, but my life was
a complete misery. Eat I could not, nor sleep, and I suffered awful pain; I would
double up and could not straighten my back. At last I wasted away over 281 b. in
weight, and got that nervous that I could not follow my occupation. In the mean-
time no one would credit the amount of pills and medicine and tonic that I had taken,
some of which would give me a false start, but after a few hours I would be as bad
agai About six weeks ago I saw an advertisement in the Wellington Evening Post,
describing a case similar to mine. I procured a bottle of your Tonic, and, before I
had finished the first bottle, I felt a new man. I commenced to eat a hearty meal.
I commenced to sleep seven or eight hours at a stretch. I could feel the elastic step
and the straight shoulders coming back again, the eye that could not bear the light or
the sun, brightening again. My weight increased in four weeks from 9st. bib. to
10st 111 b and after taking 10 bottles of your wonderful tonic, I feel a new man, and
shall never be without it; not forgetting Fletcher’s Pills, which you sell with the
tonic and which I found very useful for my liver, from which I suffered great agony.
I give you full liberty to publish this testimonial to the whole world, as it is abso-
lutely true. (Signed) JOHN L. ENGLAND.”
Men who suffer from Brain-fag, Loss of Nerve, Weakness, Loss of Sleep, Indigestion,
Low Spirits, Constipation, Weak Kidneys or Sluggish Liver, and who want to get
well and feel young again, should get this medicine. It Is as good for women,
especially for Anaemia or Broken Rest, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Melancholia, or
Constipation. ALL CHEMISTS and STORES sell it everywhere.


Do
You
Want
uhjiuojoj
Long, Heavy Hair?
Then treat your hair well. See
that it is properly fed. Growth
of every kind demands proper
food. Starved hair splits at the
ends, turns prematurely gray,
keeps short and dry. Then feed
your hair. Feed it with proper
food, a regular hair-food. Feed
it with Ayer’s Hair Vigor. Thus
help nature all you possibly can
toward giving you rich, heavy,
luxuriant hair. Ask your doctor
about your hair and about Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. Follow his advice.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
For RHEUMATISM
GOICRYST
and all BLOOD DISORDERS.
P
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
uhjiuojoj
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting- or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
!r,"oli T s
£3.10 .. £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postages
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept, *.BO, LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent. 157 Clarence St.. Sydney-
rr
a
Four ‘ELEY*
Favourites!
The world-wideand regularly in-
creasing sales of ‘ELEY’ Cartridges
among the most exacting sportsmen
afford ample evidence of their relia-
bility and general excellence.
‘Above illustrations show 12-bove smokeless
Eley ‘Vulcan’— a lightly loaded smokeless
cartridge.
Eley'Universal’— a black powder cartridge,
with an enormous sale.
‘Eley Smokeless’— a popular smokeless car-
tridge ; millions are sold annually.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Illustration show's the
Eley 44
‘WINCHESTER'
Central Fire
Cartridge
Obtainable
through all
Gunmakers
and Dealers
Eley Bros., Ltd.
London.
uhjiuojoj
Lt,
L<r:.v
IS
For Children’s Coughs and Colds
.
There is no better remedy for Children’s
Coughs and Colds than
BONNINCTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
It does them as much good
as it does the older folk.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
Ask for Bonningtons’s, and insist on getting it. It is dangerous to experiment
when you can get a remedy that has stood the test for over 45 years.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
[2
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORDS Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK’’ Brand. Fulfils'the requirements of the "PURE FOODS” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. too CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
uhjiuojoj
When you look into the mirror, and your
hollow cheeks, thin neck and scrawny arms
mock even you, what effect do you suppose they
have on those with whom you mix socially ?
A woman’s chief charm is a well-rounded
figure and full bosom. With these, thin
arms and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
If your bust lacks development, and you
are scraggly and attenuated, w 7 e will advise
you free, and gladly,, as to how you may im-
prove your figure and beautify your bust.
WOMEN'S LACK OF
BUST
DEVELOPMENT !
We are only too pleased to tell you the
secret, for we know it cannot fail, and that
in a few weeks you will be happier, healthier,
and more sought after, than in your present
emaciated condition.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages
of ill-health have sought and accepted this 1
advice, and to-day are models of womanly .
development and examples of perfect health. *
The same success awaits your call. In the
wake of attenuation follow such complaints as
constipation, indigestion, bilious headaches,
internal functional derangements, etc. As
your development advances and weight im-
proves, these gradually disappear, and perfect J
health results.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us tell you the .
secret free, and also send you a FREE {
SAMPLE of Treatment. Write to-day.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STITEET, SYDNEY,
Re 3 ’ Equitable Building's. [lBO2
uhjiuojoj
AT BREAKFAST TIME
or supper time Horlick’s Malted Milk
is a delicious substitute for tea, coffee and
ILK
cocoa. It is prepared
in a minute and requires
no cooking.
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists and
Stores. Samples and
Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted
Milk Co., Slough, •
Bucks., England.
Free to Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulae,
N.S.W., writes: —
“ It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give megreat
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etcl
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT, a, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. If
£1573| 18/9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
to you
0f... .
The Wayback Series.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
stefl bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Part’culars Poftted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
319 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
uhjiuojoj
GIFTS
As a kindly, tactful, tangible token
of friendship and goodwill, one
could search the world over and
never find the equal of
Watermans
(Ideal)
FouiitaiDPen
This pen is indeed a treasure. It
works well always. Can be carried
in the pocket with safety. Is
simple in construction, therefore
will not easily get out of order.
Fitted with famous spoon-feed and
iridium-tipped gold nib. Made
in many styles, plain and mounted
in silver and gold. Nibs for all
handwriting.
12/6 and upwards. From Stationers
and Jewellers throughout the World.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd,
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He "Went to Earth.
“My soul goes Heavenwards”: he spoke
Poised on the brink of Death’s dark firth.
Swift from its slieli nis spirit broite
And found, not Heaven, but the Earth —•
A cave more deep than furthest delved
And litten by some hidden light,
Streaming from where the granite shelved
To deeps beyond the reach of sight:
He saw the molten riverfall
Of gold, poured down in flaming rains,
And, ebbing through the milky wall,
The shimmer of the opal-veins;
Heard the quicksilver-ripple cold
Sob at his feet, and far apart
The slumber-belling pulse that told
The murmur of the planet’s heart.
He dreamed of Paradise.. .and here?
Lo, in this iron hull profound
The great Earth, mistress of the sphere,
Awaited Kim... and spoke no sound.
And gazing on that face he saw
Dark strength, far deeper than surmise:
There was no creed of god or law
Could quell those planetary eyes.
Silent, she led him through the deep
Across the gulfs of fire and mist,
Where the flame-dragons of the steep
Sprang at her cheek as gods who kissed ;
Until they came ’neath human hives,
And saw the great roots striking down—
Life-roots, whence sprang in growth of lives,
The teeming trouble of the town.
Then, then she tossed her mantle free —
And bared her head, and spoke in scorn:
“From tiniest creatures of the sea
My children, those 1 love, were born.
* : .> v
“I brooded o’er them, tender, mute:
I led their minds through Twilight-land,
On, till they sundered from the Brute —
The beings who could Understand:
“Yea, have I toiled to make them speed
Long, since the journey from the sea;
And I have squandered on their need
The patience and the heart of me.
“But you -—you spurned me and my bests:
I spread the vines for you in vain:
Sweet women caught you to their breast:*—
You tossed my bounty back again;
“You scorned the Earth ; you strove, and built
Sick fancies, worlds of saints and wings,
And banned with the remorse of guilt
The sweet sane health of primal things.
“Here, where the roots of life press round,
Give answer; your own path you trod ;
Further in Life should soul be bound
That casts out Beauty... for a god ?
“How, granting Life, could Life condone?
No bud of mine, no leaf, no tree
Craves your marred spirit for its own,
For now you have no part in me.
“For now you have no part in me ... ”
The fading echo died, and through
That silence of eternity
The moments dripped like silver dew.
The soul hung hovering as at death,
A flame that flickered to eclipse;
Then vanished at the stroke of breath,
Like a wan taper, of Her lips.
N.S.W.
HUGH McKAY.
Leaving Time.
When you’ve left a ship at Sydney with your pockets
full of “tin,”
And with men of doubtful kidney you have done
your “good stuff” in;
When you’ve been abused and chided ’cause your
“rent” is overdue,
And you’ve just about decided that the shore’s ho
place for you—
Then it’s time to get a hustle on you, sonny!
'J ime to look around for work amongst the ships !
When the pubs and boarding-master have your
money,
Say good-bye and kiss your sweetheart on the lips!
When you’ve dallied oft with Daisy and you’ve spent
some time with Sue,
Till this one thought drives you crazy: if your best
girl only knew!
And you know that when you greet her, you must
make things smooth with lies,
And you feel ashamed to meet her, and you fear her
trustful eyes—
Then it’s time to get a move on, do not tarry!
Time to make a few more long deep-water trips!
Empty pockets don’t encourage blokes to marry,
Say good-bye and kiss your sweetheart on the lips!
When you get a fit of brooding and you haven’t
much to say,
And you feel that you’re intruding in the hash-house
where you stay,
And you hatch out fine romances in a morbid re-
verie,
And you talk of vanished chances and the things
that ought to be —-
Then it’s time to pack your bag and do a hurry!
Time to think no more of long three-finger nips!
You must leave behind your ham-and-eggs and curry,
Say good-bye, and kiss your sweetheart on the lips!
When you’ve done a bit o’ graftin’ and you’ve saved
a little pile,.
And the murmur of the shaftin’ has been with you
all the while, <
And you have a sort o’ notion that you’d like to
“rest a bit,”
And you hate the name of Ocean and the things that
go with it—
Then it s time to hustle down the gangway, sonny 1
To the girl who loves you to her finger-tips!
Time to think of how you’re going to spend your
money!
Say Good-day!” and kiss your sweetheart on
the lips!
VICTORIA.
ALBATROSS.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
* « ' a ». * .*• (\A
* V v *c.‘ v 1) *
y. 4- V * £ V * «
* i <
iLiiiiMfijj.fi
SKI
£*^S6l
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 JOs.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Kidney Trouble.
PACE’S INDIAN COMPOUND
is the One Rapid Reliable Rheumatic Remedy.
SOLD BY ALL STORES and CHEMISTS, PRICE
Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
If not obtainable locally, Post Free from the Manufacturers,
PAGE g COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
26
per
Bottle.
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
uhjiuojoj
THE
BEST
TYRES
USED ON THE KING’S CARS.
Palmer Cord Tyres.
Only those tyres which have PROVED better than all others have the honor
of our King’s patronage- *
Palmer Cord Tyres must, by reason of their unique and ingenious construction,
last longer and give greater satisfaction than those built upon a canvas foundation.
Apply for New Reduced Price List issued under date Ist May, 1911.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY 9nd at 33 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing 1 Roller-Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the'Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing-Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, O.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
PO NOT BUY A CAMERA
WITHOUT SEEING
HARRINGTONS’ CAMERAS.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
HARRINGTONS LII
386 George Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.
old
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhisky
m
: ';3 . .
iu
[ AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooiieys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine.
HOBART-John Ferguson & Co/
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR THE HOME
sro
HOTEL
METROPQIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from*
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments.
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and!
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted!
on application to The Manager.
LADIES
Where BEAUTY costs only
WHY NOT HAVE IT ?
75/
The GROVER VIBRATOR
Will give you HEALTH and BEAUTY.
Fits on any
Ordinary
Water Tap.
A few
Minutes’
Use Night
and
Morning
supplies
you with
GOOD RED
BLOOD.
Removes all
Lines,
Wrinkles,
Crow’s Feet,
etc.
75
$
VJ
I
Develops
Your Figure
and
Beauty
Curves.
You can
feel it
Cure while
you use it
in the Bath
or at the
Toilet.
Ten Minutes’
Work will
Stop
Falling Hair
and
Dandruff.
75(-
With our Book of Instructions
FREE
you cannot fa.il to
get GOOD RESULTS.
CRAVEN, TAYLOR & CO. Ltd.
226 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
Sole
Agents.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. IGE6.
THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1911.
Puick 6d.
THE CORONATION.
Hop's Understudy tries his hand at a,rather ambitious subject. He explains, by the way, that “ them diagonal streaks of white paint is intended to represent
that there fierce light what beats about a throne.”
L.B.M.: “Well, you’ll have to excuse me, Rex, but I’m in a hurry. I’ve, got to knock together a few ships ; and, besides, I’m busy trying
to get my people to stand upright and carry a gun on their shoulders.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'er Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. ‘‘The Editor, The Bulletin," is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Artieles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at Ji/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High ilolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, I/I/l Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.—lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles.; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, ‘ size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand , Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, ISoz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and 8)oz. to
10oz., 2id; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d; elsewhere, Ifoz., Id.,
and ltd. each additional 2os.
THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1911.
THE WANE OF THE ECCLESIASTIC.
On the date borne by this issue of The
‘Bulletin, George V. is due to be crowned
in London. The Coronation has no practi-
cal significance. George was as much King
and Emperor the moment his father died as
he ever will be. It is a religious pageant,
meaningless to the general public, though it
has a certain historical interest for those
who appreciate its symbolism. The Corona-
tion provides, among other things, one of
the infrequent red-letter days that the high
ecclesiastic ever enjoys these times. For a
brief though glorious space the Archbishop
of Canterbury becomes the most prominent
member of the realm. The very King bows
in humility before him. It is his strange
task to inquire of the audience in Westmin-
ster Abbey whether “they who have come
to do their homage are willing to do the
same.” He has the privilege of anointing
the Head, the Breast, and the Palms of the'
Sovereign with Holy Oil. Having waved
aside the Ampulla and the Spoon, he clothes
the King with the sacred vestments, and
hands him the Sword, the Orb and the
Sceptre, administers the Oath, and puts the
Crown on the Royal head —all amid a wealth
and riot of ceremonial. It is a crowded
hour for the Archbishop and his henchmen.
But it passes; and then the prelates must
shed their gorgeous old-world clothing, and
get back to the drab garb of everyday life,
and stay out of the public eye, perhaps for
years to come.
What a tragic commentary it is on the
decline of the religious caste! The cleric
who was once all powerful is in no demand,
politically, nowadays, unless it is to be a
figurehead at Coronations, Jubilees, and so
forth. The modern prototypes of the men
at whose words nations rose and fell rarely
get. into the national limelight, and when
they do the joy is a fleeting one, and pain-
fully suggestive of the barren glory that
accrues to the “super” Duke in a costume
drama. The Archbishop of self-respect and
pride who looks back on the ancient glories
of his order, and then considers its present
status, must feel much of the bitterness of a
once-beautiful woman reviewing her lost
youth. In the dawn of civilisation the wis-
dom, knowledge- and power of the com-
munity were centred in the priests. They
were the directors of labor, the doctors, the
writers and artists, the teachers, the generals
and politicians. Since they monopolised the
great offices of State it was to the priest-
hood that the best brains of the nation gravi-
tated. Egypt, before the Bedouin inva-
sion, was a benevolent despotism controlled
entirely by priests. Thenceforward the
world saw in Moses, Mahomet, Augus-
tine, Wolsey, Cromwell, Richelieu,
Penn, and a thousand others, men who were
great religious leaders and, in addition, sol-
diers, statesmen and reformers of the highest
order.
■* * * *
The supply appears to have ceased. It
used to be said of W. E. Gladstone, by his
least embittered political opponents, that he
was hopeless as a statesman, but would have
made a most satisfactory Archbishop. This
was not intended as a slight on Archbishops.
Yet it amounted to something like tliat. It
signified tnat Gladstone, though an elo-
quent speaker, a scholar and an impressive
personality, entirely lacked that constructive
ability and that stark, bold resolution which
make for success in the world. The con-
trast between the religious leaders’ authority
in the present century, and that of many of
their predecessors, is astounding. In com-
paratively recent times, as history goes, to
defy the heads of the English Church con-
stituted a deed of unthinkable audacity. One
can almost see the historians shudder as they
tell the dreary story of mediseval countries
groaning under the displeasure of their
spiritual leaders. In those black days chil-
dren went unbaptised, the dead lay unburied
in the streets, and the people wandered
about in mourning, praying that the insuf-
ferable burden might be lifted from their
shoulders. That was an epoch when
Bishops made and unmade Kings, and when
every hedge-priest carried a Prime Minis-
ter’s portfolio in his cassock. No longer
does the world evolve clerics like that Bishop
of Ptolemais, who was not only an author
and diplomat of note, but who, on his native
town being invaded, raised an army and
drove the enemy out at the point of the
sword ; or like Laud ; or even like Talley-
kand, who, a bare century ago, was a
political power in a country that was ruled
by the most virile of sovereigns.
The twentieth century ecclesiastic has
about as much influence on the big questions
of the day as an infant. Indeed, he hardly
concerns himself with them. The most agi-
tating problems that ever beset him are
how, with the minimum of unpleasantness
and scandal, to induce some stiff-necked
curate to desist from genuflecting or using
incense in his church. His intellect is not
exercised with imperial expansion, or the
exploration of foreign lands, or the machina-
tions of foreign chancelleries, but with mat-
ters like the revision of the Prayer Book
and the raising of funds for a new taber-
nacle or Sabbath-school. If he goes to war
he does not march in the van, as of yore, but
shoulder to shoulder beside the newspaper
correspondents and other non-combatants.
The ecclesiastical fighters who affect uni-
forms and military titles have the latter
printed between inverted commas by a scorn-
ful press; their active service is waged on
metropolitan streets under the protection of
the police ; the enemy is the Devil, who. as
years of experience have taught, never hits
back.
It is not the fault of the age that the
cleric is feeble and ineffective. The oppor-
tunities for distinguished service are as rife
as ever they were. The trouble is there are
so few who are equipped to grasp them. In
Australia there are scores of social evils
calling for extirpation, some of them as
grim as those of the Middle Passage itself.
The men who killed tfje slave trade in
blacks could kill the whife slane business in
short order if they were alive to-day. But
in place of a WilberEoece our Noncon-
formist Churches are most conspicuous for
their weird jests, like Wore all of Victoria,
and Dill Macky of Sydney. The social
and political life of the country could well
do with some brainy religious leaders—men
after the fashion of those who have done so
much to make France and England great.
But the bulk of the ecclesiastical politicians
in sight possess an ill-veiled impatience with
the aspirations of the “lower orders,” and
their conception of statesmanship consists
mostly in frothy talk about the Flag and
the Empire, and kindred topics. When W.
Judkins, of Melbourne, complacently sub-
mitted to be crowned with ti-tree leaves in
a patch of suburban scrub the other day,
what time the company at a Pleasant Sab-
bath Picnic acclaimed him as a Saviour of
the Race, he unconsciously typified the con-
dition to which the whole caste has de-
scended. Allowing for a few honorable ex-
ceptions it is not taken seriously. Its
members can no longer punish and humble
those who contemn them, and the thought
fills them with petulance. Many have not
even the sense to keep their exasperation
with the changed state of things to them-
selves. Thus, one who was greeted with
the cry, “Hullo, Wowser,” as he sat in a
Sydney tram recently, wrote a long letter of
protest on the subject, to a daily-paper edi-
tor —a total stranger, completely uninter-
ested in his troubles. But whether the
cleric is a diverting fool or a person of in-
telligence, or a knave, or a good and kindly
soul, he is, practically always and every-
where, quite futile. When one recalls the
tremendous part he used to play, and con-
siders the paltry one he plays now, and when
one thinks of all the useful things he might
be doing if he had the time to spare from
wholly negligible practices, the symbolical
appropriateness of his share in the Corona-
tion ceremony becomes apparent. It stresses
the fact that the great religious leaders are
shut away from the practical side of life’s
struggle for ever. The race of clerical
giants has died out.
THE GEEBUNG CROWD’S FIGHT IN
A NEW DITCH.
The further the case proceeds against the
N.S.W. Government’s proposal to resume
possession of the State’s Government House
and park, the thinner it appears. The Op-
position relies mainly on the preposterous
argument that the suggestion is a further ex-
ample of Labor’s “vandalistic tendencies,”
and amounts to a deliberate plot to “destroy
a great historical asset.” As a matter of
fact, the Government proposal is the exact
reverse of all that. There is no intention to
demolish Government House. But a his-
torical asset which is permanently locked
away in a cellar is of little value to the pub-
lic. And that has been the position of this
Government House for years and years. At
the best, the line building, leased for some
time past as an occasional residence of the
Gov.-iieneral, is only available to stimulate
the imagination of an infinitesimal section of
the people during a fraction of the year. The
vast majority of citizens who find the money
for its upkeep have never seen more of it
than the chimney-pots, and, while it is put
to its present use, have no hope on earth of
ever doing so. Now, it is an axiom with
Governments all over the civilised world
that the public shall not be excluded from
State buildings which are not put to a
reasonable amount of use. That is why the
Sydney Tory, when he goes to London, is
able to wander at will about the Tower,
1 lampton Court, and such-like places; and
it is because he appreciates the justice of
that policy, so far as foreign nations are
concerned, that he does not howl “Vandal-
ism” when he finds that the Paris Louvre
and the Luxembourg, the Palace at Versail-
les, the Doge’s Palace in Venice, and count-
less other places of the sort, are open to any
respectable citizen. A rational nation in
every case of this kind puts to itself tbe
plain business question: Is it worth while
keeping this place shut? The proposition be-
fore N.S.W. may be as simply stated: Is it
better that the State should have a Gover-
nor-General —who is rarely in residence, any-
how—monopolising its greatest historical
building and its best harbor site, or that it
should house him elsewhere and put that
building and site to some constant nublic
use? The common-sense of the community
should not be long in arriving at an answer.
The use to which the building should be put
stands out as obviously as a burning moun-
tain. N.S.W. already has a couple of ade-
quate National Libraries ; and there is the Na-
tional Gallery. But the State still lacks a
National Portrait Gallery and a museum de-
voted exclusively to Australian historical
relics and mementoes. It is impossible to
over-estimate the educational value of insti-
tutions like the Musee de Carnavalet in
Paris. Here may be seen those things
which speak to the Frenchman of all creeds
and every shade of political thought of his
country’s struggles, triumphs and sorrows.
It is a sort of working-man’s university, and
a place of endless entertainment as well, and
the crowds which flock there on fete days
afford a revelation in the matter of intelli-
gent interest. London’s National Portrait
Gallery, which stands close to and is, in a
sense, the complement of the National Gal-
lery, is a worthy model for this country to
follow. There is a natural affinity between
a National Portrait Gallery and a National
Museum of Antiquities. They should be in
conjunction, and there is no place more suit-
able to hold the nucleus of what must one
day be a collection of supreme Australian in-
terest than the edifice which has so far only
held Governors.
* * # *
There remains the curious complaint that
Sydney’s “prestige” will be affected in some
unspecified fashion, if this Government House
is put to any other than its present use. In
the eyes of the title-chasing type of Aus-
tralian and the remittance-man type of Bri-
ton, this may be so. But these folk do not
count. The world does not measure a city’s
importance by the people of rank who visit
it, else would Aix and Monte Carlo be held
of more consequence than Birmingham and
New York. Far from sacrificing prestige,
Sydney, by acting intelligently in this mat-
ter, has an opportunity to add to that asset,
in a very material way. It can never be-the
administrative centre of the Commonwealth.
Geokge Reid saw to that 10 years ago.
Neither can it ever hope to be the 6ne com-
mercial centre of Australia. But, with its
Mitchell Library holding as it does a col-
lection of old Australian records which can
never be duplicated, and with such a Portrait
Gallery and Museum as are here suggested,
it can and should be the Art centre, and
the place to which every student of Aus-
tralian historical matters would need to re-
sort. And there is the consideration that
with Government House open to the people,
and its grounds transformed into a public
reserve, Sydney will have between St. Mary’s
Cathedral and the harbor about as superb a
combination of glorious park and decorative
public buildings as exists in the world ; and
these are factors which operate more chan
the presence of many officials to give a city
prestige. It is not strange that Sydney’s
small Geebung malcontents should be enraged
at the Holman proposal. They always do
fight bitterly against any scheme which is
touched with imagination, and which looks
ahead further than the middle of the coming
week. But here it is to their own interests
as well as that of the general public that
they should not prevail. By blocking the
Government’s present proposal, they will do
their native city—the city which they have
always considered before either N.S.W. or
Australia —the same kind of bad turn that
they tried to do it when they struggled to
defeat Federation a decade ago.
THE CURSE OF BEING TOO DIFFIDENT.
Every time the mysterious meeting of
potentates, called the Imperial Conference,
fills a small corner of London with speeches
and food, the truth is shown afresh that
the Australian has been too sinfully modest
to recognise the value of his own plans
and proposals. The military and naval
schemes towards w r hich Australia yearned
furnished a surprising example of that.
Every Australian had the firm conviction
that, in order to defend itself on land,
the Commonwealth ought to train all its
youth to arms. But people in Britain, and
people imported from Britain, and people
who aped Britain, cried out with vague and
idiotic horror against the Australian no-
tion; and with his usual apologetic depre-
ciation of himself the Australian drew back.
For many years he scrambled along with a
wretchedly exiguous militia force. Then
Joseph Cook and Alfred Deakin, in
tremulous and fear-stricken hesitation, es-
tablished a sort of soldiers’ crbche by train-
ing youths 19 years old ; but, being afraid
of what they had done, they asked Her-
bert Kitchener, a man who was supposed
to know something about army organisa-
tion, to give them his valuable British
opinion. His verdict was that the Austra-
lian plan had been the right plan all along,
and that the Deakin-Cook policy had
merely fiddled with Australia’s military
necessities. Then, and only then, did the
self-effacing Australian get courage to go
ahead with his own ideas. The ultimate
result will probably he that Britain itself
will follow Australia’s example, and that the
disastrous Territorial Army will be aban-
doned, in spite of the fact that S’ John
Fuller, Victoria’s imported Governor, is a
captain in it.
For many years, moreover, Australians
saw that they could not be safe without
some navy of their own. They perceived
that the alleged “ocean supremacy” of Brit-
ain was a mere fiction in the Pacific, in
which sea Australia’s likeliest enemies are
to be found. They knew that the Marin-
ers of England would inevitably be called
back to guard their native seas, and that
Australia and the Pacific would be left to
look after themselves, with nothing but the
Japanese Alliance as a pretence of security.
This view also was gravely reprobated by
the imported pundits and their imitators;
so that the Australian, distrusting him-
self in his customary boyish fashion, de-
layed for 10 years the first instalment of
his plans. Again the event has proved
that the Australian was right, and that
the critics who gnashed their teeth were
wrong. To-day Britain is in one of the
bluest funks of which her history holds a
record. She wakes up in the night after
dreaming that her throat' has been cut by a
German Uhlan ; and she never retires with-
out looking under the;bed to make sure that
Kaiser Wilhelm is not there. This august
Mistress of the Seas, who once told Aus-
tralians that any fleet which she might
raise would be Useless, if not an encum-
brance, has now actually asked Australia
to build a fleet in order to help in the
maintenance of ocean power; and during
the present Conference she will probably
be found asking, either publicly or secretly,
for a good deal more. The Australian was
right, as usual; and nothing but his sinful
modesty stood in his way.
* * * *
There are other beliefs to which the Aus-
ralian is clinging, in spite of his tendency
to acquiesce when other people tell him that
he is. mistaken. One of them is, that a
maritime Power is in a bad way when it
depends upon Dagoes, other foreigners, and
niggers for the manning of its ships; and
so far as his powers go, he is trying to
keep clean white vessels in his own clean
white country. The Australian, too, can-
not fall in love with the piebald glories of
an empire which is mostly nigger, so that
King George, when he is’ crowned, might
fittingly cork his face like the gentleman
who sits at the corner of the stage in the
Tivoli. Alliance and co-operation between
white British races appeal to the Austra-
lian ; but he sees only one disaster for an em-
pire which is proudest of India among
all its members, and which shakes hands
with the Jap, because the Jap. promised to
keep its gun pointed towards India. Time
will undoubtedly show that the Australian
is right ; and, meantime, the best that he
can do is to get rid of his blushes, as far as
possible, and insist upon his own ideas to
the farthest limits of his opportunities.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Site for Government House.
Various small State insects are buzzing
furiously with regard to the housing of the
Governor-General, having been stirred up by
the Sydney proposal to turn over the Har-
bor-side residence and park to the people
who own it. Among others, Willie Watt,
of Victoria, lays it down that wherever the
G.-G. goes on “official business” there ought
he to have a Government House to accom-
modate him and his staff of lady and gentle-
man helps. Nobody has yet explained what
this “official business” is that takes the G.-G.
all over the continent. No doubt his Ex.
may want to go to Melbourne at Cup time,
and to Sydney dux-ing thg Easter frivols;
also he may care to roost in the hills outside
Adelaide during part of the summer, and in
winter he may care to go north to Townsville
to find some warmth. But if he does these
things he does them partly for his own pleas-
ure and partly because “Society” expects him
to buy food and drink and entertainment for
the people who are the best able to buy it for
themselves. The Commonwealth pays the
G.-G. to do certain fairly well-defined' things
—and the entertainment of a mere handful
of the population isn’t one of those things.
His “official business” lies where his Minis-
ters are; he is the link between them and
the British Government. And it has been
decided that the Ministers shall have fheir
official quarters at Yassberra, where, more-
over, the Parliament is to meet —the Parlia-
ment which the G.-G. must open and close
according to hoary precedent. Yassberra
has been declared to be good enough to be
the capital of Australia; now, when it is
naturally insisted that the Governor-Gen-
eral of Australia shall live there, the whole
shocking conspiracy over the selection is ex-


posed by the people who are
the wildness of the proposal to bu •
ment House there. The truth, of course, is
that those who engineered the con ®P^ d J
deliberately chose a place where nobody
would want to live, and where they
pected nobody would live if he coul P ,
live in Sydney. It is, however, n° P
the Commonwealth Government s duJL
proceed on that assumption. It mus
that the Parliament was honest ; and_ its
sole obligation, the capital site having been
chosen, is to provide a Government Ho '.
at Yassberra. That must be the home of the
Governor-General —until the site is chan a .
And any Government which, having ap-
proved of the capital site, attempts to dodge
the consequences of the selection brands 1
self a hypocrite in this matter and a conspir-
ator against Australia.
The “ Horrible Understanding.”
Sydney Telegraph and Melbourne Leader
have been blunting their teeth on that tough
proposition, “the honorable understanding.”
It happened in this fashion. April, which is
a critical month for people on the land,
chanced to be a “dry” month in most parts.
Farmers and squatters began to be alarmed,
and there was talk of a drought. Immedi-
ately the price of pollard and bran was
jumped up—all over Australia —by 15s. per
ton. This audacious thing was done at a
time when wheat was actually falling in
price. The millers, however, with one eye on
the weather-glass and another on the public,
saw a chance of “making a bit” ; and, had
the dry weather continued, the consumers of
bran and pollard would have had to go on
paying through the nose for their supplies.
Fortunately, rain fell —and so did the price
of bran and pollard. The fall of the latter was
so sudden that the bang woke up the two
journals referred to, and they began to ex-
amine into the matter. The net result of
their inquiry was that, “though there is no
combine amongst the millers” within the
meaning of the Act, there is an “honorable
understanding,” which amounts to practically
the same thing. Of course, this is not new.
In Melbourne the price of flour, pollard and
bran is openly published as “Millers’ Associa-
tion rates.” and little or no secret is made
anywhere of the fact. Both the Telegraph
and the Leader wagged their heads solemn-
ly, and said that it “shouldn’t be so.” Yet
when the Fisher Government asked a few
weeks ago for power wide enough to reach
“honorable understandings,” both these mud-
dle-headed journals urged everybody to vote
“No”; and their loudest shriek was directed
to the farmer, who was told that voting
“Yes” meant ruin and general desolation.
Here, however, is a plain case of the farmer
being chewed at both ends, in a manner of
speaking, by the very beast he was told he
mustn’t kill. While the price of his wheat
was being: depressed, that of the bran and
pollard he wanted for his stock was being
raised skyward. Still, why complain/ Ap-
parently the farmer likes this sort ot treat-
ment. If he doesn’t, then The Bulletin
gives him up as a bad puzzle.
♦ T
“Backers Fare Well.”
A race meeting was held at Epsom (Vic.)
the other day. Melbourne Argus remarked
next day, apropos the afternoon’s sport,
“Backers fare well.” As a matter of fact,
backers did fare well —comparatively speak-
ing That is not to say, however, that the
layers suffered any financial damage.
An analvsis of the three events in which the
public “got home” on “the Ring” is instruc-
tive in its way. In the Jumpers’ Flat Race
there were 15 starters. Six to four was the
best price quoted against the favorite. A
typical book on this event would pan out as
follows: —
£ £ £
100 60 to 40 Prelude.
99 77 „ 22 Norley.
98 84 „ 14 Quedong.
100 874 „ 124 Brownlock.
99 88* „ 11 Altar Boy.
99 90 ~ 9 Benburb.
The most the bookmaker could be asked to
pay out was thus £lOO. Then add up the
third column of figures, representing the
money collected from the public, and it will
be seen that Christian Noses held £lOB
10s. to pay £lOO. In other words, he was
assured of a certain profit of £8 10s. before
the race started; and, in addition, he had a
field of nine unbacked horses running on his
behalf for the entire contents of his bag. In
the Steeplechase, the event where anything
may happen, the favorite (which lost) went
out at 5 to 4. The financial position may be
stated as follows :
£ £ £
180 100 to 80 Paralock.
180 120 „ 60 Southport.
180 144 ~ 36 Ivy Rock.
179/17/- 163£ „ 16/7/- Waxene.
179/11/- 171 „ 8/11/- Pilot.
The book held, in this case, £2OO 18s. to
pay £lB0 —a sure profit of £2O 18s. In the
Epsom Handicap the betting was even
money Chauvelin (which lost) ; 5 to 2 the
winner, Bambra. From the Ring’s stand-
point, the Epsom Handicap worked out
thus: —
£ £ £
210 105 to 105 Chauvelin.
210 150 „ 60 Bambra.
210 168 „ 42 Gunpowder.
210 168 „ 42 Wirregah.
£249 to pay £2lO = a sure thing of £39 for
the book. And this was one of those days
when “backers fared well,” and Christian
Noses pulled a long face, and told dreary
tales of the hard shifts an honest bookmaker
is driven to in order to earn a crust!
Luckily for Noses, it is not always thus.
There are gleams in the darkness. For
example, at the big meeting at Randwick
last April, 28 horses went out for the A.J.C.
Cup. The winner was a 60 to one chance.
Broadsword, the winner of the Doncaster,
started at 12 to 1. Of the 24 races that were
run, 16 were won by the rankest outsiders,
and the meeting closed with the victory of
Reg, a 100 to one chance. These were
days on which backers admittedly did not
fare well. In order to get a line as to how
the books fared, backers and other asses
only need to consider the tables supplied
above (indicative of “the Ring’s” position
when it is “hit”), and then draw them-
selves aside and do some quiet, heart-to-
heart brooding. If the result doesn’t impel
them either to swear off racecourse betting
in N.S.W. and Vic., or, in default, to howl
at their legislators for immediate tote legis-
lation, they deserve the merciless financial
skinning that has been their lot in the past.
Overboard Goes the Competitive System!
Certain Melbourne men of affairs have
lately been observing the common or side-
gate variety of “Milk-o,” how he starts out
at 4 a.m., rushes his vehicle up and down
20 or 40 streets, delivers half a cupful of
milk at one or two houses in each, chases
stray customers, new tenants and “bad 'lays,”
and then hurries his beast home to the
stable —often miles away—and repeats the
performance in the afternoon. Having pon-
dered this business, these men reached the
conclusion that there is here a sizeable waste
of horse-flesh, horse-shoes, vehicles, cans and
man or boy. not to mention lung power,
whip and axle grease. So they are forming
a syndicate to control the whole trade;
they propose to receive the cow-juice at a
few widely-placed depots, and distribute it
from convenient sub-depots with a mini-
mum of travel, wear and tear, splash,
churning, street sweepings, and general up-
roar. The idea is so good that so long as
the syndicate doesn’t come to an “honor-
able understanding” with itself, it will be
entitled to all the profits it expects to make
—until a Greater Melbourne arrives and
undertakes the sole distribution of milk,
along with the distribution of other perish-
ables —ice, fruit and fish —to such house-
holders as care to join in an optional adden-
dum to the scheme. One of the amazing-
follies of modern civilisation is the need-
less amount of beast and boy and
cart spent in humping a city’s sup-
ply of fodder about. The average suburban
street with 300 houses will on a rough esti-
mate harbor 100 youths and men, each with
two or three customers apiece, to whom he
delivers a few drops of milk, a small loaf, or
a pound of chops, whereas three men could
do the whole thing comfortably. Nobody
would be a penny the worse off if the other
97 were paid to merely twirl their thumbs,
or play two-up, or sit at the feet of Jud-
kins, "and, if that were done, 97 horses
could be turned out to grass and 97 carts
could be turned into firewood, for which
there is a good demand at present. Cer-
tainly these 97 youths might be put to much
better use, and so might the 97 carts and
horses; and the present is a good time to
try the experiment, in view of the alleged
great scarcity of youths, and the alleged
considerable scarcity of carts and horses.
Under the Dog Act.
Randolph Bedford is annoyed:—
The Australian desires in a vague sort of way
that his country should represent the apotheosis of
liberty, where there will be no policemen, because
the Australian will have learned that for his own
copifort and safety he must not affect the comfort
and safety of others; that Australia should elim-
inate more and more the occupations which are
mere drudgery, from which the people can derive
no pleasure; that Australian cities should be perfect
places for healthful living, where the jerry builder
shall not be, nor the terrace, nor the square-
cornered room, nor the house not connected with a
municipal vacuum-cleaning system, nor the street
that harbors rat, cat, dog, Norfolk Howard, or
blatta Orientalis, which is the fancy name for cock-
roach. Above all, he will exclude the rat, the cat
and the dog, and with them most of the people who
substitute the cat and the dog for healthy interest
in a healthy infant.
The cat owes most of its popularity to the fem-
inine habit of cuddling up to people, and its soft-
ness, and its pleasure in,, warmth. When very
pleased it bursts into music of the bellows kind,
its pleasant habit of rat-catching means that it be-
comes a city of refuge for the fleas of the rat.
Everything in nature is interdependent, and it
passes on the fleas to the softness of the little child
that nurses it, or the lingerie of the lady who
likes to share her bed with a blue Persian cat called
“tortoise-shell,” because it is made of fur, green
eyes, malevolence and meat. Man’s appreciation of
the dog is more deeply rooted. In the days when
he had to pursue his meat instead of buying it from
the Meat Trust, at prices shockingly high, the dog
was useful in pursuing the game to the game’s
weariness, and pulling it down for the final blow
of the hunter’s club. The dog has a greater
capacity for affection than the cat, is more trust-
worthy and sincere, and so it is a bad habit more
difficult to be rid of. A dog occasionally saves a
child from drowning, but more frequently his
owner is fined because the brute attacked the child.
Dogs often stand guard over children in the absence
of their parents, and bite the wrong man in the
person of the curate who has called to deliver a
tract entitled, “The Reformed Bookmaker.” And
dogs have been known to be faithful to their trust
even to the exclusion of meals. But this only
proves the dog is valuable, not in civilisation, but in
unsettled conditions. The sentimentality attaching
to the dog has been fostered by such pictures as
“The Faithful Hound,” and such poems as “Gelert’s
Dying Yell.” But in Australia the faithful hound
has been known to eat his dead master, and if
Gelert breathed on the infant he saved from the
wolves, and left it a legacy of hydatids on the
liver, his dying yell wasn’t worth a hill of beans,
and is only dragged in like the “curtain” of the
third act in the melodrama. And all this indi-
cates only that the Faithful Hound and Gelert
should not be allowed inside houses.
The dog is still a useful and good friend in many
ways, but never in the household. He pursues ver-
min, like the rabbit and the fox, but he gets more
wtdp than nursing. The collie’s intelligence in
drafting sheep and cattle makes him a servant
sufficiently valuable for the drover to carry him on
the saddle when he is foot-sore, or to prompt the
making of boots to save the dog’s pads in very
stony or spear-grass country. But he is valued
mostly for his commercial use. To call a man a
dog or a dog’s bootmaker is an insult. “Cur” is
also a word provocative of strikes. But outside of
his uses, and especially in the household, he is, at
his best, a kindly carrier of disease; at his worst
he is a filthy and pampered brute. I knovv of one
English household where the siclc-diet of a dog
already dying of overfeeding was beef-tea and cham-
pagne' mixed. .
The habit of keeping dogs in houses is stupid
and filthy and British. What man forgets the
night to midnight function of many London house-
holds, when the overfed dog is led into the street,
and the result causes the healthy man from open-
air countries to curse all Britishers, from Alfred
the Great, who burned the calces, down to Vic-
toria, who exaggerated the British stodginess, and
belonged to the time of horse-hair furniture with
swollen mahogany legs ! .
Australia has been clear of the dog habit for long,
because, until the present generation, the men were
workers and the women were mothers, and there was
no leisured class. But with the increase of easily-
gotten wealth, and the second generation of people
whitened by laziness, the dog habit becomes as
filthy a thing as it is in London or New York.
There is in a Sydney suburb a family which com-
pels the domestics to speak of a common dog as
“Miss Fido,” and the other day the papers had
reports of a “christening” of a dog! The cele-
brant of the baptism is reported to have been an
officer of the Australian forces, and, if this be so,
one wonders why, in the interests of Australians,
the Japs should not invade Australia immediately.
“Binkie Spencer Ernest” is the dog’s baptismal
name. “Binkie was dressed in white and had a
regulation baby’s feeding-bottle to soothe him before
the event. There were many guests. A side-table
groaned under the delicacies for dogs. The christen-
ing cake had a huge sugar dog on top, and Binkie
cut this himself after his muzzle had been whetted
for the ceremony. The christening gifts included
an eiderdown quilt for Binkie’s head, a new collar,
a toy dQg full of chocolates, a ball, a cake of dog
soap, and a cup full of chocolates.”
The dog “had a regulation baby’s feeding bottle
to soothe him!” Why not a regulation baby to
lick ? Or a regulation baby to eat ? Babies —regula-
tion or otherwise —are cheap enough, and unwelcome
enough, and there were hundreds of them hungry
while “the table groaned under delicacies for dogs”
and Binkie Spencer Ernest Reginald cut the christen-
ing cake.
♦
Sugar and a Yellow Peril.
“Labasa” hoists a danger signal
Fiji has a new Governor, who till recently helped
to handle the reins for J. Bull in Hong Kong.
Since his arrival in this group he has been spreading
himself on the virtues of the Chow, and appears to
favor the importation of Chinese labor throughout
Fiji, in place of the indentured Indian coolie, who,
owing to good seasons in his own country, and the
strictness of the Indian immigration authorities, is
becoming harder and harder every year to obtain.
The fat men of the Fijian community who are now
putting up for the local Legislative Council, all
favor the yellow agony, and seem to have the sup-
port of a big bulk of the community ; so it is more
than likely an attempt will be made to follow the
awful example of Tahiti, and promote Chinese immi-
gration. If the Commonwealth and Maoriland get
busy right away, the scheme may be nipped in the
bud, as the Colonial Office, after its little experience
on the Rand, will think hard before adopting the sug-
gestion, especially if Fisher and Ward bark loud
enough the moment the matter crops up. Failing
this, something else will have to be done. The
bulk of Fijian sugar is consumed in Maoriland, and
the imposition of a high tariff by the windy islands
in favor of white-grown Australian sugar would
settle not only the Chow question here, but almost
everything else as well, and would, at the same
time, open up a vast field for State mills in Queens-
land and N.S.W., where cane lands in manv in-
stances are from 20 to 50 per cent, more fertile
than those of the Western Pacific Islands. Austra-
lia, in return, could comfortably grant Maoriland a
free market for oats, flax, etc. That, however, is
a secondary consideration. The thing to be done
immediately is to get Fisher and Ward to have a
word to say on the question of bringing Chinese into
British colonies in the South Pacific; and as the
spokesmen for the great white communities in those
parts, as well as the representatives of the white
countries with which the yellow “indentured” labor-
ers will come into competition, they have every
right to speak. In fact, they have no right to
keep silent.
The N.S.W. Government has at last tabled
a Bill to create a Convention of Citizens of
Sydney to discuss all things necessary for a
complete and up-to-date Greater Sydney Coun-
cil. This Convention will consist of about 40
delegates, elected from the Federal elector-
ates in the Greater Sydney area. Went-
worth, East, West, South, and North
Sydney, Cook, Parkes, Dailey and Lang
will elect five each ; and part of Nepean and
Parramatta will elect two each. The Con-
vention will discuss (1) the territory of the
new council. (2) the powers it will exercise,
(3) the services it will take over, (4) the
control it will have of existing services, such
as Water and Sewerage, Harbor Trust,
Trams, etc. Also, it will handle the finance
question, but will be debarred from discuss-
ing Unification versus Federation (the form-
er is the Labor party’s policy), or the fran-
chise, another policy matter. Already the
aldermanic animalculae in the suburban
council areas are beginning to squirm, and
shrill yells to the Legislative Council will be
heard in the land and over the waters of the
harbor, like foghorns and bad-weather sirens.
If the Legislative Council.refuses to straight-
en up Sydney’s tangled civic government, or
to allow the citizens to do it themselves,
then the inevitable fight for the Council’s
own abolition will begin. It could not
come on a better question; for even the com-
mercial community is beginning to find
divided control and a swarm of helpless
authorities intolerable.
♦ .
A Commission is to inquire into the “sweated
trades” in N. S. Wales. That the conditions
of the “white workers” who toil at home, the
hair-workers, artificial flower-makers, and a
number of others are infamous is as true as
anything can be. But the trouble is to
prove it. The people who are sweated
are so crushed that, in most cases, they have
not even the courage to join a union; and as
for giving evidence before a Commission, in
the face of the boss, they would rather die
than do it. In spite of all the declarations
to the contrary, they know that workers who
have given evidence before Wages Boards,
Arbitration Courts, and so forth, have been
penalised ; and, since they haven’t a day’s keep
put by, they feel that they dare not take a
risk. Fortunately, Minister Beeby, who has
charge of this Department, has been through
the mill. He appeared for the shophands
in the memorable case before the Arbitra-
tion Court, and must have personal know-
ledge of how some of the witnesses were
victimised afterwards. Yet if the workers
themselves do not give evidence, how is the
truth to be brought to light V There is a
way, and it is better by far than the exam-
ination of shivering, half-starved workers
speaking with the terror of the sack before
their eyes; and that way is to go straight to
the books of firms suspected of sweating.
Then the public may see to what extent it
ought to sympathise with some manufac-
turers in their howl about the shortage of
labor.
O
A beautiful illustration of how the “No”
policy works out for employer and employee
was provided by some evidence given before
the N.S.W. Country Shop Assistants’ Wages
Board at Wagga the other day. A Corowa
storekeeper pleaded for exemption from the
award on the ground of the fierce competi-
tion of Wahgunyah, Rutherglen and Yarra-
wonga, on the Victorian side, where no
Wages Board had jurisdiction, and business
was sunk in the slough of cut-throat com-
petition and sweating. On the Victorian
side, grocery assistants were getting from
£2 down to a wretched 15s. (Evidence
showed that the ruling minimum for grocers
in Wagga and thereabouts was £2 55., while
men with more experience got anything up
to £3.) Girls in the rag department were
toiling for the half-a-crown a week which
used to disgrace the Sydney fluff trade. The
Corowa employers said they knew it was
a shocking state of things, but they were
helpless until John Weaky’s Cabinet de-
cided it was unsafe to procrastinate longer
and granted a Wages Board for the Victorian
border districts. And even then there was
no guarantee that the conditions imposed
would correspond to the N.S.W. award.
It was, they added, a situation clamoring
for Federal legislation. Yet probably most
of the Corowa employers went along in
right-thinking indignation and voted “No”
on April 26, while the Corowa employees
were too tired or dispirited to vote, or got
lost on the way.
+
It is alleged on good authority that there
are not now, in the whole Melbourne metro-
politan area, eight firms employing more
than five journeymen tailors each, and that
of the firms which used to employ from 12
to 40 tailors, not 25 per cent, now employ
more than three. The firms turn out more
work, but women do it—for less wages.
The Board that fixed the minimum wage
failed to discover the relative value .of
tailors’ and tailoresses’ work, and, after giv-
ing the men, in most classes, a wage of £2 15s.
a week, blundered badly in fixing the pay of
a competent adult tailoress at only £1 Is.
a week. A disastrous result of this anomaly
is that the employers are training no new
tailors. Instead, they are crying aloud for
the importation of more female labor, which
is a futile remedy anyhow. Female labor
is, or should be, a temporary thing at best.
The State wants mothers in its homes, not
middle-aged spinsters in its factories; and
Parliament should insist that the ratio be-
tween men’s and women’s wages be so ad-
justed that the woman shall not only get
equal pay for equal work, but that her mini-
mum wage shall be so high as to discourage
her employment, and encourage her to be-
come the wife of the man who will displace
her.
Fkom a Melbourne critic, concerning the
Felton Bequest and its art purchases:—
The dissatisfaction expressed with many of the
purchases made by the administrators of the Felton
Bequest is hardly likely to be allayed by the three
recent additions of Old Masters —the Reynolds
(£5000), the Hofpner- (£2000), and the Mor-
land (£440).
In surveying the results of the expenditure of
some £45,000 since Mr. Felton's decease, the
first point that strikes the observer is the absence
of any sound policy or business principle underlying
the investment of the income from this handsome
endowment —an income which at present amounts
to about £7OOO, and will ultimately be between
£lO,OOO and £12,000 per annum. Firstly, the
purchase of imperfect, damaged or incomplete ex-
amples of the dead Masters —often at fancy prices
based solely on the name—is an entirely mistaken
policy for a young country to pursue. It is futile
for Australia to expect to acquire by purchase any
important works, truly representative of the finest
achievements of the great Masters, in competition
with the wealth of Europe or of the American mil-
lionaires. Earlier discarded works, often imperfect
or unfinished, which are traded in by dealers on
account of the market value of the name, only
serve to give a false conception of the artists’
greatness, and are unworthy of a in a Na-
tional Gallery of true Art. The most we can
aspire to obtain are good copies of original master-
pieces by the old Masters.
It is difficult to conceive any argument that
could justify the expenditure of a thousand guineas
on a faded water-color —albeit the handiwork of
the immortal Turner himself —which in another 20
or 30 years will cease to possess any value at all.
To those who know the works of the • real Turner-
in the London National Gallery, there' is nothing
in this little sketch that affords the least concep-
tion of the greatness of his genius. Even the com-
paratively modern Corot —the most important work
of the dead Masters yet purchased—is relatively in-
significant, and but poorly represents the achieve-
ment of that incomparable artist. And (he highly-
lauded Watteau (£3500) would never be recog-
The Song of the Heathen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We must not kiss in the gardens,
We must not sing in the street,
We must not jump with a joyous shout
When a long-lost friend we meet.
We must not race by the sea-shore,
We must not sit on the sand,
We must not laugh on a New Year Night,
For this is the Wowsers’ land.
Oh, this is the Wowsers’ land,.
And the laughing days are o er,
For most of the things that we used to do
We must not do any more!
We mustn’t be glad on a Sunday now,
For fear of a fine or gaol;
We must not eat the fruits of the earth,
Nor drink of the ginger ale;
We must not go to a picture-show,
No matter now pure it he;
On a moonlit night, when the stars are
bright,
We scarce dare stroll by the sea.
We scarce dare stroll by the sea,
For the plain clo. “John’s” about,
And the she-male’s nigh with an evil eye,
And the Wowseradite is out.
We dare not walk in the park by dark,
We dare not sit on a seat,
For the kill-joy is there with a baleful glare,
And the night “cop” off his beat;
We dare not pause to talk to our girl,
At her door we scarce dare halt,
Lest she be fouled by a gimlet bird,
And we run in for assault.
And heavily fined for assault,
For the thing is everywhere,
With its rusty coat and scraggy throat —
Oh, the holy bird is there!
The little hoys mustn’t play marbles,
They mustn’t trundle a hoop ;
We must not cheer for the Senate,
Nor yet for our nation whoop !
Oh, tell me in cursing anger,
Oh, tell me in grief and tears,
Oh, tell me if this is Australia
I wake to after the years!
I wake to after the years—
The land that I thought was free ;
Oh, tell me whatever in Heaven
Or Hell can the matter be!
Oh, glorious skies above us,
Oh, spring-green earth beneath,
Oh, kindly gods that love us,
Oh, the open air we breathe;
Oh, song of the mighty Bushland,
Oh, light of the wild bush-flowers,
Oh, the surge of the grandest ocean
At the gate of this land of ours!
At the gate of this land of ours
By religious mania cursed;
Say what has brought clouds upon usV
Who brought the germ in first?
If this be the end of our striving,
The reward of the fighting years;
If this be the goal of the Commonwealth,
I go with the Cavaliers ;
I go with the drinking fighters,
With laughing rakes and carls —
If this be the work of Cromwell,
Bide hard ! Ride hard for King Charles!
Ride hard ! Ride hard for King Charles,
Nor think of the useless slain ;
Then back to the world and nature —■
The truth and the devil again!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


OEARD’S British-Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—.Terdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get intocommunication
with us anti state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE— BRiSBANE—ADELAinE
OIL ENGINES FOR ALL
PURPOSES.
STRONG, RELIABLE, ECONOMICAL.
GUARANTEED for FIVE YEARS.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works: WOOLWICH, SYDNEY.
Showrooms: 35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
519 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ;
BANK STREET, ADELAIDE.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lilyof the
Valley
Natural.
Night- '
■Scented
■StocK.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes charm
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature arid
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
uhjiuojoj
Manufacturer at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Btreet, Sydney.
nised by the connoisseur as representative of the
tar greater achievement of this artist in the best
period of his career. That it must have been one
ot his earliest efforts is exemplified in the cramped
drawing of the figures, in which—both in elegance
and refinement—he afterwards particularly excelled,
were Watteau alive and confronted with this
work, he would certainly turn it to the wall.
Again, what value as a work of art can anyone
discover in Monticelli's half-obliterated study
entitled “Fete Champetre” (£500)? Part of the
original painting appears to have been damaged or
destroyed, and what remains of the artist’s original
conception is scarcely discernible to the most prac-
tised eye. Surely this discarded fragment need not
have found its last resting-place in our capital!
The examples cited afford sufficient evidence in
support of my contention that the administrators
are working on the wrong lines, and that num-
bers of the selections are unworthy of the ob-
jects of the benefactor. Instead of dissipating the
valuable income on damaged or inferior works, hav-
ing at most an academic interest, we should as a
business people seek to enrich our Art collection
with the masterpieces of living masters, or of
those but recently deceased, whose works would in-
crease in value as the years roll by, and which in
after times could, if deemed advisable, be realised
or exchanged at an increased value on their orig-
inal cost. Thus an excellent opportunity to acquire
a masterpiece of exceptional merit occurred when
Lefebee’s “Chloe” was offered for sale by the
executors of the late surgeon Fitzgerald. But the
Felton Trustees were outbid by a private buyer,
who gave £BOO for this chef d’oeuvre, which now
hangs on the walls of a hotel. It is quite possible
the Trustees may some years hence purchase it at
a considerably increased figure, as in the ease of
Mackennal's “Circe,” for which they recently paid
double the price ( £1200) at which it had been
offered to them a few years previously ( £600).
Would it not be more advantageous in the long
run to devote, if needed, the whole of one year’s
income to the acquisition of one genuine master-
piece, than to distribute it broadcast in petty
amounts on mediocre works of more than doubtful
merit ?
It is a matter of national importance that so
splendid a legacy should be administered under
such conditions as will build up for future genera-
tions of Australians a noble collection of works of
art, which any young nation would be proud to
possess, and worthy the public spirit of the late
Mr. Felton. It is, however, painfully evident that
the Trustees have been guided by no higher ideal
in their estimation of Art than that afforded by the
virtue of a name, and that the expenditure of the
funds has been accomplished with conspicuous disre-
gard for the commercial aspect and importance of
the question.
A somewhat wily deputation, consisting of
Pecksniff, Stiggins and co., last week
waited on the acting Chief Secretary of
N.S.W., and complained that the opening of
fruit and refreshment shops on Sunday was
being sadly abused. Vegetables, tobacco and
other instruments of sin were sold by these
establishments, and the law was being griev-
ously fractured. The deputation was reason-
able, and had come in a broad spirit. The
opening of fruit shops might be a good thing;
but as the license given them was being ter-
ribly abused, the only remedy was to close
all shops on the Sabbath. These places em-
ployed assistants, and the unfortunate people
had to work seven days per week. And,
owing to the way the law was being broken,
more and more shops, the owners of which
would gladly keep the “seventh” day holy,'
were being forced in self-defence to keep open
too, and make their assistants work. It was
dreadful, and the deputation thought rhat, in
the interests of the workers, who had to bear
the brunt of it all, these places should be
closed right up and the law enforced without
any exceptions. It was a neatly-displayed
trap ; but the Acting-Chief Secretary con-
ceals under an angelic exterior a consider-
able knowledge of how many beans make
five, and shrewdly guessed that it was not the
woes of the over-worked assistants that wor-
ried the deputation. At present, Coogee,
Bondi, Manly and other seaside resorts are
crowded on Sundays with working people
and their children. Whole families make
for the seaside; it is the one outing that
thousands and thousands of families can
have; and to these thousands the open re-
freshment shop is. practically indispensable.
If they were not indispensable, thev would,
indeed, not worry the Wowser. His real
objection is, not to the open shop, but to
the outing; and, after the manner of his
kind, he seeks to attack it, not from the
front, but by climbing up the back-stairs. So
when the Chief Sec. asked whether the
deputation would stop the Sunday tram and
train —which would carry the reform to its
logical conclusion —only one parson had the
honesty to say straight-out that he would. The
rest smiled smugly, and said they were not
there to discuss that —they were there
merely to ask that the law should be en-
forced without exemptions or exceptions.
But Mr. Flowers refused to bite. He
promised if information were given as to
the selling of cabbages on Sundays, and
other breaches of the law, action would be
taken ; and that was all he would promise.
So a dispirited deputation moved out and
off—no doubt to think no some other back-
stairs way of stopping the people from ob-
serving the Sabbath in any other way than
as a Day of Bust.
♦
A word in the ear of Trefle, N.S.W. Min-
ister for Buckwheat and Pumpkins
For 16 years there has been a so : called experi-
mental farm at Pera Bore, and the people are no
wiser to-day as to the agricultural value of the West
than they were 16 years ago, simply because no ex-
perimental work has been carried out. When the
farm was started a manager was imported. He
planted hundreds of trees —peaches, apricots, nec-
tarines, mandarins, oranges, lemons—and thousands
of grape vines. After some six or seven years, the
expert concluded that the West was only good for
( oranges , arid lgmons, and everything else was rooted
out. Since then no experiments with stone fruit or
vines have been made, though the results at manv a
wsstern homestead are distinctly encouraging. The
public, however, naturally knows nothing about these
small private experiments; and when settlers come
in hundreds to. this part—and that will be when the
Darling River is locked—they will be as much in the
dark as if there had never been any experimental
farm in existence, and a vast amount of money and
time will be wasted. Minister Tkefle should get
busy. N. S ; Wales has its biggest public estate out
there, and it wants to know how to make the last
pound of profit out of the possession.
Abo. debaters on the mental cure for
snake-bite should remember that to bluff one-
self cured of a real bite is a mighty different
proposition to frightening oneself dead from
an imaginary one. And. before undertaking
any risky enterprises of this or any other
sort, level-headed men should inspire their
wisdom by infrequent but enthusiastic inter-
views with D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hamlet.”
Royal “ The Balkan Princess.”
Criterion “The Gay Gordons.”
Adelphi “ Driving a Girl to Destruction.”
Tivoli Rickards' Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Nobody’s Daughter.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “A Fool There Was.”
Kino’s “A Woman of Pleasure.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co,
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Sousa’s Band.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Town Hall Leonard Berwick (27th & 29th).
Repertory Theatre. .. “The Two Mr. Wetherbys ” (26th)
♦
As a choir the Sheffield singers leave very
little to be wdshed for; the weakness of the
attack lies in the soloists. Oratorio singers
don’t, however, grow on every bush ; so it
was no doubt a question of weakening the
choir or strengthening the solo end of the
argument. Very wisely it was decided not
to weaken the choir. “The Messiah,” the
opening programme of the Sydney season,
might certainly have gained in massive ef-
fect if the number had been even greater;
but in the beautifully clear quality of the
voices, and in the perfect command which
the conductor (Dr. Coward) had over them,
the performance was so good that nobody
need expect anything better until the Celestial
choir strikes up. This opening perform-
ance in Sydney had the advantage also of
including a very fine bass —Robert Charles-
worth —among the soloists, and some of the
numbers of Miss Jennie Taggart were also
completely satisfactory. The leading tenor,
Henry Turnpenny, got much more satis-
faction out of the lighter role of Prince
Henry in “The Golden Legend.” This Sul-
livan music was sung on Saturday evening,
when almost as many people were turned
away from the Town Hall as were able to
crowd into it. Had the baritone soloist
been equal to his task, this might have
ranked as the best concert of the series. The
Legend was preceded by Bach’s “Sing Ye
to the Lord,” a piece full of difficulties; and
the performance amounted to a triumph of
the conductor’s generalship. To this con-
cert Arthur Mason also contributed two or-
gan solos, one of them a little thing of his
own, full of charm. The great Ninth Sym-
phony of Beethoven was undertaken on Sat-
urday afternoon by the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, the choir supplying the final
burst of ecstatic song. The orchestra had
the help of P. S. Kelly, a returned Austra-
lian, in a Beethoven concerto for piano and
orchestra. This was his first appearance in
Sydney, after many European successes;
and a brilliant performance justified a re-
markable outburst of enthusiasm, though
Beethoven worshippers gasped at the intro-
duction of cadenzas in a composition of the
“master.” The cnoir is now hurrying on to
Maoriland; thence it will return to Aus-
tralia—but cannot, it is understood, pay a
return visit to N. S. Wales. On its choral
work during the season in Sydney it is quite
safe to say that it is going to earn three
cheers everywhere.
"THE BALKAN
PRINCESS," AT
THE SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Ihe indispensable
comic waiter
(Bert Gilbert).
The new vogue: thief comedians (Percy
and Kirby).
There will be less Girl and more Gore at
Her Majesty’s after Friday night. The
mystical business, hitherto supplied by a
Giant, will on and after Saturday night be
in the hands of a Ghost. Gravediggers will
usurp the interludes of Kenyon and Cannot:
the macabre waggishness of the churchyard
will replace the more robust wit which
enianates from bursting motor-cars. To
sink metaphor, the pantomime leaves Her
Majesty’s within 24 hours of the Corona-
tion, giving place to Hamlet, Prince of Den-
mark. H. B. Irving is to portray the horno-
Cidal foreign royalty, and Miss Dorothea
Baird will be his Ophelia,
Miss Florence Young has been shamefully
insulted in the Bohemian Restaurant at
Sydney Theatre Royal evei’y night this
week, and unless Judkins or some such
Moral Force intervenes, the outrage is likely
to continue for months. The dismissal of
the restaurant’s present powerful and
heavily-armed chucker-out, and the substitu-
tion in his place of a small but wordy Wow-
ser, might make for Purity. “The Balkan
Princess” management is hereby offered the
tin for what it is worth.
** * *
“Th<? Gay Gordons” have but nine days
more on the Criterion heath. On Satur-
day week next “The Gay Grisette” —reput-
edly one of' the merriest and most tuneful
shows on record —is due in Sydney.
*# * *
“Starving, are you !” yells the top-hatted
second villain to the noble, crippled child.
“What right have you to starve ?” And seizing
the child’s hard-earned loaf of bread, he bowls
it down the alley. The incident happens in
Act 3 of “Driving a Girl to Destruction,”
the high-speed George Marlodrama which
transpired at Sydney Adelphi last Satur-
day. It bears a strong family resemblance
to other melos. Its nose certainly is a bit
redder, and it drinks harder and faster
than its relatives; but its ground plan
and front elevation are practically the
same. The three villainous characters only
last for three acts because the noble-hearted
crew of live are thoroughly stupid, and be-
cause the victimised typist, round Avhom the
plot riots, is always ready to accept a bou-
quet of drinks in lieu of an explanation or a
settlement of her lamentable affairs. Three
totally idiotic male characters transpire at
frequent intervals in improbable clothes
and create distracting uproars. They are
intended to provide the humor; but a police-
man-dramatist would have no hesitation in
arresting the three for being on the
premises without lawful excuse. The strong-
est feature of the play is its wealth of situa- •
tions, some of them fairly well-devised and
unexpected.
* * * *
Louise Hampton and Cecil Mannering
make their first Australian appearance as
Ruby Wright (the Driven One), and Robert
Ray (the Driven One’s sailor lover). Miss
Hampton is a sympathetic actress with a
quiet, effective style; R. Ray is a player of
the vigorous order, who semes to be subject;
to first-night nervousness. Nellie Fergus-
son makes the best of the ugly part of Ruth
Wright, the typist-victim. Ethel Buckley,
as Bessie Betts, is a cheerfully independent
barmaid who is never seen behind the bar
and insults the villain —the only person she
carries drink to. Essie Clay is Madame de
Meral on the programme, but she occasion-
ally forgets the fact, and relapses into un-
broken English. 11. W. Diver (in the play
Lucas List, of List and Co, Ltd., General
Ruiners) skilfully earns the hatred of the
house; John Cosgrove makes Octavius
Screwe a thirsty, giggling evildoer, who
seems to love villainy for its own sake, and
dresses as if he habitually forgets to collect
his wages of sin. Robert Inman has an
easy, head-patting role as the Rev. Christo-
pher Lovatt (a Clean and Healthy Soul).
J. P. O’Neill, Wilton Welch, and Arthur
Shirley, as the three irresponsibles, do their
best to deliver the laughs; and Miss Cecil
Bradley is the remarkably agile cripple boy
who climbs about like a leading seaman and
is robbed of the bread.
* *■ « -*
On Monday night the Religious Editor,
taking a hint from the advertisement curtain
at the Tivoli, asked himself to have a drink;
but having seen the first part already, he
slightly varied the curtain’s suggestion and
drank till half time. Then returning, he was
disgusted to find the theatre fuller than he
was—which is, no doubt, why a lot of others
don’t follow this same plan. The Zanfrellas
are the current draw; they defy the laws
of gravity, whirl in space and crawl around
each other in an amazing manner. The
Columbia Trio fold up their tuneful voices
at the end of this week. Keldine and Klimo,
trick cyclists ; Croxton, monologue entertain-
er ; the juggling Kavanagh boys; Delino the
wire-walker, and the Australian Dartos are
the other principal attractions.
** * *
At the J. D. Williams Lyric Theatre,
Sydney, the beginning of this week saw a
very fine film of local production, entitled
“A Ticket in Tatt.’s.” It was horsey; and
murder, greed and treachery combined to
point a moral and adorn an exciting tale.
It was filmed by the local concern presided
over by Gaston Mervale at the studio at
Queenscliffe, Manly; and the actors in-
cluded well-known mummers like Ilarrie
Ireland and Louise Carbassa. The pro-
gramme for to-day shows how the Italian
Army is exercised in the Alps, and some of
the horsemanship is bewildering even to an
Australian. “Amusements at Singapore”
tells how the gentle Oriental passes his
spare time. “Marozia” is one of the splen-
did costume plays for which the Pathe
Co. is famous; “Who’s Who at the Zoo”
is an extravaganza by the Gaumont Co. of
Paris, and is a sequel to one of the
same title shown last week; and there is
the usual dramatic love tale and a wild
farce —“Jane and the Sleeping Sickness” —
which cannot be described till it has been
seen 16 times.
** * *
At the Sydney Lyceum Spencer’s Theatre-
scope is about to make an energetic splash
in honor of the Coronation. The unveiling
of the great statue of Queen Victoria will
introduce the gorgeous business ; and, among
other things, “Under the Union Jack” will
provide an epitome of empire, or Imperial-
ism in tabloid form. For nine days there
will be special Coronation matinees for
ladies and children. On Friday Mr. Spencer
will show pictures of the previous day’s de-
monstrations, including the children’s out-
break at the Sydney Agricultural Ground.
In fact, it is quite within the range of possi-
bility that the energetic Higgins will have
his film ready to screen on Thursday night,
but there is no guarantee about that.
** * *
It is said that, in the event of the princi-
pals of “Our Miss Gibbs” being cast away in
a motor-car, or run over by a steam launch,
the members of the orchestra could step into
the various vacancies, and drift through the
parts without having to stop once to think
of a word. But as this would necessitate
the stage hands being called upon to whistle
the music, it is hoped nothing really serious
may happen in the long run. Familiarity
breeds content, and there is no urgent de-
mand for “Next, please,” at Her Majesty’s,
excepting among those who have to find some-
thing to say about the “Cryptos” opera as
fresh at least as last year’s eggs.
“A WOMAN
OF PLEAS-
URED AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Fred Kehoc as
the ancient
rustic.
J. H. Nunn,
as Command-
ant Van Ret
of the Boer
forces.
At Melbourne Royal “The Woman in the
Case” is bringing her career of crime to a
close, and will take her inflammatory wig out
of the public’s eye at an early date. Friday
night’s outburst will be the last occasion on
which Miss Foster will be called upon to
take excess of liquid nourishment out of an
urn, prior to having her head employed to
damage the elegant furnishings. On Satur-
day, 24th, another bad lot of the same com-
plexion arrives at the Royal, when Porter
Emerson Brown’s drama, “A Fool There
Was,” is to be staged for the first time here-
about. It is fondly hoped that this play
will lash W. Judkins to apostolic fury.
** * *
The second act of “Nobody’s Daughter,”
now providing wholesome entertainment to
Melbourne Princess’s patrons, is devoted to
frocks, frills, and mixed millinery; but as
an attempt to dramatise the dress, mantle
and hat departments, it falls short of an
artful success. The stage is filled with
bandboxes, and the ladies of the play de-
vote themselves to a long debauch of trying-
on. The spectacle offers no particular sat-
isfaction even for women. As non-combat-
ants, ladies in the audience find small joy
in the other person’s intemperate indulgence
in Paris hats. Minor personalities crowded
out of last week’s review are Greenaway’s
youthful baronet, who amuses his leisure
moments by falling out of an aeroplane—a
sketchy personage with a sandy atmosphere:
and Sweeney’s mechanic, the noble-hearted
British workman who is in love with No-
body’s Daughter, and likes her rather better
on learning that she is a little “illejim.”
This good young man does not contrive to
appear a splendid toiler making an irresist-
ible appeal, although that was clearly the
author’s hope.
** * *
These are the last appearances of Sousa
in the Victorian capital; so the people who
have not seen the champion or heard his
band are requested to visit the local Glaci-
arium at the earliest moment. Recitals are
now given twice daily, at 3 p.m. and 8 p.m.,
and the evening programmes are beginning
to include a lot of items included in response
to the entreaties of General Desire.


HUNTER STREET HOWES
WHERE THE
90/-SAC SUIT
COSTS YOU
85(6
FOR
CASH,
SAC SUITS from 4 to
5 Guineas.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
from 6 Guineas.
EErej
■•■■ini!
m
U k
-
Only Address: CORNER GEORGE and HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
Keep It
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Principal of the new performers at the Opera
House is one Lamberti, who gives imperson-
ations of the masters of music.’ A. fresh
turn of great interest is supplied by Reichen s
amazing team of balancing dogs; while
Mdlle. Charmeroy, Parisian and _ piquant,
reveals herself as a singer and pianist. Other
Opera House people are mostly familiar
identities, and include Peggy Pryde, Black
and White, Caldwell and Verne, and the pop-
ular jester, Frederick Bluett.
* #■ * *
“The Woman of Pleasure” is the lady of
the moment at Melbourne King’s; and good
crowds are watching her procession of sensa-
tions with evident joy. There is a strong
Jingo sentiment about the play; but that
quality gets little recognition, through the
excitement aroused by a bloomered dame.
The lady trips into the plot in loud, check
knickers, and, though she affects a jaunty
air, she never anoears quite right. Some-
how these pants, that make some women
look like pictures, make others look like
puzzles.
** # *
During the past week “Thelma” has been
flying across West’s Melbourne screen in
several hundred feet of interesting film.
Corelli’s story makes a pleasant picture—
partly because its sentimental scenes are
subdued and rational. The same strong-
programme includes “A Tale of Two Cities,”
“Tontolini’s Clarionet,” and snapshots of
the Rome Exhibition in course of construc-
tion. Judging by the multitude of buildings
in this last production, Rome’s exhibition
will have the dimensions of a town.
m# # *
“The General’s Fate,” at the Praliran
Lyric (Vic.), pictures an episode in the
career of General Pichegru. The film, which
is handsomely tinted, also introduces the
young Napoleon, shown either raging like a
cyclone or rigid like a corpse. There is
plenty of excitement in “True to His Trust” ;
while “Pathos Gazette” regales the audi-
ence with photos, of hats and other recent
disasters and weird events. Respecting the
Lyric’s special films of famous operas, it is
announced that “Lucia di Lammermoor” will
be the next attraction.
* * *
Those who yearn for the intellectual
drama are getting a chance to prove that
their virtue is not a vain assumption. On
Monday, 26th, and three other nights, at the
Turn Verein Hall, Gregan McMahon’s new-
ly-organised Repertory Co., will present in
turn Hank in’s “The Two Mr. Wetherbys,”
Sheridan’s “The Critic” (Act II.), and Ib-
sen’s “John Gabriel Borkman.” The enter-
prise has received a lot of canvassing from
local literary quidnuncs, and Gregan Mc-
Mahon reckons that the first performances
will be found satisfactory to intellects which
are not too exacting.
#* * #
_At the Adelaide Theatre Royal the
Katherine Grey Co. has made a brilliant
success of the llodgson-Burnett “Dawn of a
To-morrow,” which is like “A Messenger
from Mars” without any magic, and with
religion substituted for morality. To say
that the characters mostly swear when they
are not praying, and frequently do both at
the same time, does not make the play
sound attractive; but it is full of fun, with
tears close behind the laughter. There is
a long cast, strikingly in contrast to the
brief ones of the co.’s American plays. Des-
mond and Mackay sail easily and gracefully
through what they have to do, and Miss
Grey makes the theatrical character, the
slum-girl, as little stagey as possible. Never-
theless, her artless profanities seemed more
lifelike in the book, where she was a mere
kid ; in the play she is made older, to allow
an unnecessary love-interest. Some fine bits
of acting are put in by Leslie Victor, as a
Johnnie with the beginnings of a conscience;
by Winter Hall, as a Fatman with nerves ;
by Atholwood, as the specialist who diagnoses
his case; and by Susie'Vaughan as a slum-
dweller, who prays hopelessly for her hus-
band’s reform, and “just throws in a os-
tridge-fevver” for herself. Miss Grey is
now showing her versatility in a double bill,
as Madame Butterfly and the serving-maid
in “Arms and the Man.”
From a confirmed member of the House
of Commons:—
Went to Whitehall Rooms to hear George Reid
discourse on “The Past, Present and Future of
Australia.” A rambling, discursive, unprepared,
ill-digested , address, As he himself confessed, he
was unable to “keep on the rails.” George is too
busy lunching and dining to find time to prepare a
proper and. worthy address on such a subject. His
interjectional jokes were of the poorest pattern.
“That- gentleman must be a squatter,” quoth
he, when somebody cried “Hear, hear!” to a
statement about the prosperity of the pastoral in-
dustry. George was followed by Lord Denman,
the new G.-G., who avowed a dense ignorance of
Australia, but added that he was learning as fast
as he could by daily attendance at the office of
the High Commissioner. McGowen, N.S.W. Pre-
mier, boldly defied all the rules of grammar for
five minutes; and burly John Forrest made a pain-
ful exhibition of himself for a similar period.
John Downer, of South Aus., proclaimed himself
a Conservative and a Unionist, and was promptly
sat upon and squelched by the chairman (Earl
Carrington) for introducing party politics. Alto-
gether a bad evening for the reputation of Austra-
lian oratory.
AT POVERTY POINT.
" NOBODY'S DAUGHTER," AT MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS'S.
Harry Plimmer (as
Mr. Frampton) gets
angry.
A. E. Greenaway as
Sir Jasper, March
mont.
“Theorbo”: Armes Beaumont, for whom a fund is
being got together, has a peculiar claim to sym-
pathy ; he has been almost sightless for 4 4 years,
through a shooting accident, an unfortunate. affair
caused by one of Lyster’s brothers. Beaumont had
then been six years on the stage, and remained over
20 more. Pie could not see his music—-how wonder-
ful, then, was the great range of his characters! In
all he sustained about 80. Never a great tenor, he
had, however, all the advantage of a fine person-
ality and a good voice of the robust order. His
Don Caesar de Bazan, Faust, Thaddeus (“Bohemian
Girl”), Vasco d 6 Gama (“I’Africaine”), and many
other parts, will be remembered with favor in Syd-
ney and Melbourne. He made a snug little fortune,
but, dropping it in the boom, bravely turned to the
drudgery of teaching, with all his disadvantages.
Now, at 70, he deserves more than ordinary recogni-
tion.
For the Coronation opera shivoo at Covent Gar-
den, on June 26, the following charges were fixed:
Pit and grand tier boxes, 100 guineas each; front
and second tier boxes respectively, 60 and 40
guineas; orchestra stalls, 20 guineas; balcony, 10
guineas; first four rows amphitheatre, 4 guineas;
other rows, 3 guineas. There was a stampede for
seats, and the booking closed six weeks ago.
“A.E.G.” : “C. Ockney” is quite mistaken when
he states that Waller is the original “Beaucaire.”
The late Richard Mansfield played, it originally in
America for two seasons. So great was his success
that Frohman offered to take the full co. to the
Duke of York’s Theatre, London; but Mansfield
wouldn’t go, remembering his previous failure at
the Lyceum, as Richard 111., and in “Jelcyll and
Hyde,” etc. Had he gone Waller would never have
been seen in the part. I have seen them both,
and Waller wasn’t within coo-ee of Mansfield.
“Big Drummer”: W. S. Gilbert was actually for
a while a member of a tony West End club “for
noblemen and gentlemen.” Of course, he was never
happy there. When someone stole his new hat he
was unhappier than ever, and pinned up a notice
in the hall stating that he would be obliged if the
nobleman who stole his hat would return it, and no
questions would be asked. When called up to ex-
plain the insult, he remarked that as no gentleman
would steal a hat, it must have been a nobleman.
He neither dined nor wined there again.
Among the Sydney picture-shows thev won’t call
it Wowserisin any more. It will be Flowerserism
for the future.
To Australians it seemed that Blarney, the fat and
flabby young tenor who impersonated an unemo-
tional Pinkerton in “Madame Butterfly,” was quite
out of place as an operatic artist. He sang satisfac-
torily in foggy tones, but his appearance and crudity
as an actor of heroic parts were fatal to the illusion.
Yet Blarney was engaged for the expensive Beecham
Opera Co. when he returned to London« and lately
he was appearing with a choice selection of the co
m an excerpt from an old Offenbach work at the
Alhambra. This was the first time that a handsome
scene from opera, with full orchestra and chorus
had been tried as a music-hall turn.
Edmund Burke, whom Melba has secured for the
grand opera tour of Australia, is a Canadian. Up
till 12 months ago he had been singing in opera at
the Hague for three or four years. He made his
first appearance, your Worship," at Covent Garden
when the Opera House was re-opened after King
Edward’s death. On that occasion he solemnly
warbled as the High Priest in “Samson and Deli-
lah.”
Beaumont Smith, late sec. to Bilanderson, has
been careering over Europe looking for a little
man named Ulpts. The chase led through
Rome, Florence, Milan and Lucerne; ultimately
Smith ran his quarry to earth at Vienna, and en-
gaged him on the spot to come to Australia. Died-
erich Ulpts is 3ft. lOin. high, and weighs 601 b.
He is a spruce, well-featured fellow of 50, married
to a lady of normal size, and the father of two
normal-sized children. He will bring with him a
co. of midgets, the smallest being Ludwig Mess
(height 25in.), who is a lightning cartoonist. Mrs.
Tom Thumb, who was in Australia years ago, will
possibly make the journey with her second husband,
Count Magri (height 3ft. sin.). Mrs. Thumb-
Maari is about 70, and has stipulated against Sun-
day shows.
“Christian B.”: Queer the fads and superstitions
of theatrical managers. Tom Pollard had the 13
superstition very badly. Also, he had an idea that
a gong was necessary to the success of any musical
production, and W. S. Percy can tell to what
lengths he’d go to get the implement introduced.
One manager regarded the fictitious name “Hugh
Power” as a mascotte. Programme collectors will
find the name in casts extending over a quarter
of a century, and it still crops up frequently. 11.
Power is the only actor on record guilty of playing
in three pieces in three different cities on the one
night. William Anderson has a similar supersti-
tion. For years he has insisted on the bogus actor-
name, “Frank Rossmore,” appearing on his day-
bills and programmes. Frankie should be inclined
to senile decay now; but, the other day, when
Anderson staged the Lilliputian panto., “The Old
Woman Who Lived in a Shoe,” he blossomed out
as large as life among the rest of the kids in the
cast.
“Floater”: New York, which turned down “Mrs.
Warren’s Profession” with horror, has given an en-
thusiastic reception to “Thais.” The heroine is the
lady who has been described as “the wittiest Flossie
of them all.” In the drama she drifts through the
marble halls and rose-strewn gardens in semi-demi-
robes, pursued by youths in the last throes of calf
love, hedonist philosophers, and, queerest of all,
a fantastic Christian seer. But after splashing round
one of the most lavish displays of artistic Flossie-
dom, the author saves the conscience of N’Yorlc by
converting the lady. Had Bernard Shaw made Mrs.
Warren “repent,” and then rung the curtain down
on her class in Sunday-school, N’York would no
doubt have taken that play to its bosom too.
Matheson Lang has gone to S’Africa with a co.,
but not to play the pieces which he tried in this
country. His partner in the spec is W. E. Hollo-
way, presumably a son of the Plain Bill (W.J.) Hol-
loway, who made his pile by exploiting Essie Jenyns.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Mrs. Emma Griffiths,
who died in Melbourne lately, was a daughter of
G. H. Rogers, a leading comedian of the ’4o’s, ’so’s
and ’6o’s. “Old Rogers” and “old Lambert” di-
vided the honors of Sir Peter Teazle, Sir Anthony
Absolute, and such characters 50 years ago. There
were two sisters on the stage, Emma and Fanny;
but the former on her marriage retired. The
first Mrs. Rogers was a sister of Charles Young,
a famous comedian, contemporary with Rogers. An-
other sister, Fanny Young, married the comedian
George Washington Daniels.
“Snell”: I consider it an error of artistic judg-
ment to put the blind, halt, or lame on the stage
without strong excuse; but the author of “Nobody’s
Daughter” has dragged in a young cripple, and keeps
him limping through three acts, for no reason but
to point an out-of-the-way moral of a stupidly senti-
mental kind. The father and mother of Nobody’s
Daughter, respectably married (though not to each
other), are grievously unfortunate in the matter of
multiplication. The mother has no children; the
father only this cripple. This is rubbed in as retri-
bution evidently; but as the unlawful offspring is
strong and lusty, the true moral is shockingly other-
wise, implying that if people want sound children
they had best have them on the off-theory.
After all, the rich squatter is much the same as
the cloakroom attendant. He merely takes charge
of the sheep’s overcoat.
Something new in picture shows is promised in
Melbourne. It is an exhibition of original adver-
tising poster designs, in aid of the Children’s Hospi-
tal. The persons whose goods the designs advertise
are to be asked to pay £1 Is. per picture for the
advt., and the public will be required to pay to see
them. The Gaud Mayor is pushing the scheme, but
success is expected.
“C. Ockney”: Who told “Cockaigne” (B. l/6/’ll)
that “Kismet” (Oscar Asche’s latest London pro-
duction, and a big winner by all accounts) was a
translation from the German? Certainly not the
programme, and decidedly not the critics. I have
read the notices of all the principal London dailies
and they, without exception, give the credit of the
authorship to Knoblanch, an American, who has
been in England for quite a while, and whose name
has figured on metropolitan programmes ere now
in connection with several trivial (and not too
successful) one-act pieces. In an interview, Kno-
blanch says he wrote the play 15 years ago. ’I sup-
pose that means it has taken him 14 years to get
it produced. He was lucky in hitting on a sub-
ject that would keep all that time. Most of us go
in for the modern play (which we are told every
manager wants). We spend a year writing it, and
another year trying to get it “placed,” and then
it’s clean out of date! I congratulate the author
(not the translator) of “Kismet” on his success,
and am grateful for his tip !
“S.S.”: I went to church last Sunday. I did it
to please her, and expected to be bored, but instead
found myself quite enjoying the monologue enter-
tainment. They talk about the union of church
and stage. Well, this parson was the best actor
I’d seen in seven days. He was sufficiently young,
extremely becoming, pale of face, long of liair, and
he preached with the subtle movements of a posture
dancer, and worked thin, taper hands with won-
derful effect. He seemed to be waving lilies
aloft. His voice was trained to the last possible
nuance, and he played his eyes for all they were
worth. There Was a fairly large congregation, two-
thirds women, and the performance was a tremen-
dous success. I believe it would have been a suc-
cess at the Opera House. Only perfect restraint
prevented the women demanding "an encore.
“Haresfoot” : Two performers, well known in Aus-
tralia, get high approval in a current London revival
°f “As You Like It.” One is Alice Crawford, of
Bendigo, with a hearty and sympathetic Rosalind;
the other is Clifton Alderson, who twice visited Aus-
tralia, first as leading man with Laura Villiers and
Julius Knight, and then in the lead with the “New
Boy” co. Alderson was Raslileigh Osbaldiston when
Malter-r Bentley acted “Rob Roy” in Melbourne.
a&fi is
Jh^Kank 1 to Wa e S xc P eL?^ ed l tcHAtJi
probably do .the same under similar circumstances ■
t u whe » h , e urged the heroine, who was Toinaf in
holy wedlock with the villain, to fly with him and
sin >° VV r a lf f U , m< ; of devotion to atone for our one
r ’ 1 "' a y ,ted to rise an d cry “Shame!” lan
disappointed in Roy Redgrave; I never suspected
him of being That Sort of Man. suspected
\\ ang : The other day the manager of a Mel-
bourne theatre was summoned for overcrowding his
house of entertainment. The J. Pee who woke up
to heai the ease fined him 40s. and 21s. costs anil
%..™®. na * er P aid with promptitude and| no doubt
gratitude, seeing that he must have been well in’
live= h ® deal V , Th u e va,ue of the hundreds of human
lives jeopardised by overcrowding wasn’t taken into
theT^M 1688 the P - reCko « ed the “ at £8 is
+ l t- , M y. suffg-estion is that a fat J.P. should
e trussed with ropes in the gangway of, say the
family mrcie, and an alarm of fire raised Vter
the J.P. had been trampled to pancake, the over-
crowdmg manager would probably be fined €lO
modatln 01- OTerflowin = the seating accom-
“«m?fiTd Row”: Some of the cos. that tour the
to malm fo , r P a > m(>nt for rehearsals
to make up for ridiculously short “tours.” Fifteen
fanly capable people rehearsed two farce comedies
three S ; y< , n n fiy ’ ? n the Promise of a certain
three and a probable six months’ tour. On the
K night out a notice was posted closing the
season m Bundaberg. The “tour” ended in 14
nights after 30 days’ rehearsal.
“Condot”: As far as I can find out, Nero was the
best paid professional singer that ever was 1
flatter E, 200 ' ye ®*‘ oId miscellany: “In order to
fldttei the Emperor Nero, his Senators used to en-
hi g thiir n n a a ine a = Pe n°™ er “ their Soir6cs Musicales
to e.QOKo l f 0n one occasion his fee amounted
to j-SRoO of our money. He was very careful of
that V °he e ’nf- n kt a i IaVC WaS WOnt to stand nearo him
tknt hr? “ lgh J cl , ap a na P km over his mouthe if
that he sang too loude to the perill of his voice.”
CB : ew hat ■? “ Sn . ell ” grumbling about
I,l' „ { 11 ' ) — that 1S > if he is grumbling? When
he complains—or rather asserts —that “the repro-
n U ?m°o ln i m .ng clay of London comedians who have
=t a^ OnOUS , hlt 1S now a lar £e and Profitable
}” du ®F. ry ’ he speaks as one who has made a paralyz-
eooral h° Very ' • rhlS /‘P ro htable industry” has, ‘of
course, been going on for more years than I care to
“ unt -m°re even than “Snell,” with all hfs love
for statistics, would care to count. Every “fat”
ennLl hat haS SCOred a bi S h it in London has to be
corned in every particular by the mummer who is
selected to play it in Australia. The managements
insist upon it. They say to the actor: “Go and sit
m front every night and watch So-and-So.” The
actor has no option. He’s not engaged to be original
or create anything; he earns his screw by mimicry
pure and simple, and the nearer he gets to So-and-
So, the original exponent, the better are the bosses
pleased. And what would you ? “Better a good copy
any day than a bad original.” (This is not rav own
epigram I heard it when I mixed among mum-
mers as a boy.) Certainly, in the case of a strongly.
?r nn??? charac t el '>. Rke Peter Doody, an accurate and
mmute copy is justified—though, I believe, Alfred
Lester, the originator, doesn’t think so!
W. G. Barker, the maker of the “Henry VIII.”
mm, has a studio of _4\ acres at Ealing (Eng.).
Last month he called in all the Henry films in use
in England, and made a bonfire of them in the
studio grounds. West’s have to return their Aus-
tralian film within six months of the opening show
For private reasons, apparently, George
bcott has decided not to step into the shoes
of the veteran Christie as detective-inspector
to the Victorian Customs.
Melbourne Argus expresses its sym-
pathy with a millionaire named Joel:—
Why Mr. Joel should be unpopular is not clear. Now
that he has won the Derby, and is entitled to have his
name enrolled with King Edward and other illus-
trious persons as the owner of a Derby winner he
can afford to laugh at his detractors.
There’s “loyalty” for you ! Joel may be the
embodiment of all that’s dislikable in
gilded Jewmanity; but since his name was
enrolled with King Edward’s (not to men-
tion many “illustrious” lords and blacklegs)
Joel can afford to sit on his money bags
and bid defiance to unpopularity.
Apart from the Federal Ministers, the
only coronating Australian to get his name
prominently into the cables so far is N.S.W
Premier McGowen. His crawl through a
sewer seems to have done the trick; and, in
case that should have misfired, he stopped
in the Strand or somewhere and helped a
boilermaker do some riveting. None of the
others, State or Federal, appear to have hit
upon an advertising idea. Yet Murray had
his chance to challenge the Kingdom to a
sleeping competition, while Lewis might
easily have gained undying fame by attending
Covent Garden Market and dropping a large-
sized bomb among the agents who are making
fortunes out of the Tasmanian apple-growers.
JUNE 22, 1911.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day a matinfie will be produced
More wildly lavish in a thousand ways
Than Barnum ever dreamed of, or than Rome
Imagined in her richest, maddest days.
No spectacle in all the world has had
A fraction of its vast advertisement.
The plot, the cast, the costumes all are known
From hall to hut, from club to navvy’s tent.
The normal drama is “presented bv”
Or “under the direction of” some mere
Drab commoner. This is to be “put on”
By one who’s Britain’s premier duke and peer.
No slap-dash work’s allowable, and so
Last March each keen exponent of his art
Found on the call-board orders to rehearse
Three solid months before he played his part.
The small-part artist’s usually Low
(His opposite is hard to find as pearls) ;
Here is a show whose minor roles are filled
By barons, viscounts, marquises and earls !
No actresses, not e’en the wives of peers,
May take so much as supers’ roles —a pact
Arrived at, doubtless, for the reason that
No persons are required who cannot act.
This is a “one-day stand,” ho, more, and yet
Before a single syllable resounds
It will have cost (so swears the press) a sum'
Amounting to some twenty million pounds.
What wonder the dramatic scribes are dumb?
For once .the language fails them. There is dearth
Of panegyrics to discharge at this,
The Greatest, Most Stupendous Show on Earth.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
OTHER TIMES, OTHER “LEADS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hero of “The Balkan Princess” is a frivolous
in fact, rakish—character. —News Item.
The hero whom we used to know,
A few short seasons back,
Has vanished like the choral show
Whose heroine was black,
Or brown. A person fills his place
Who is an ethical Disgrace.
No more the leading juvenile
Irradiates the stage, -
With virtue and the holy smile
Which makes the Wicked rage:
Convention now demands that he
Shall be as horrid as can be.
The baritone of yesteryear
Was strangely pure and good,
And, as he sang, a furtive tear
In ev’ry eyeball stood:
Each part he played he deified
And all “in front” were edified.
How different the modern “lead!”
No tuneful Wowser he:
His troubles cause no heart to bleed,
His triumphs bring no glee.
He is not kind and faithful, but
A most incorrigible “nut.”
For me, I speed the parting type,
And welcome in the new;
The old-time hero’s soulful tripe
At last has got its due.
Avaunt, dull effigy of wood!
All hail, blithe youth of flesh and blood!
N.S.W.
H. SINGEMOINE.


MEN’S WINTER HATS.
TWO
SPECIAL
VALUES.
uhjiuojoj
Soft Pure Felt Lounge, the ideal hat for Country
Wear, as illustration, with brims varying from 2|in.
to 3in. Grey, with Grey or Black
band ; Light Brown, Beaver and
Serpent Green in 2Jin: brims
10/6
uhjiuojoj
Semi=Lounge Hat —Can be worn as illustration, or
v.’ith turned up and straight crease in crown. In Grey,
light or medium shade, with Grey or Black bands ;
Cuba, Lava, Sage Green, Olive or
Serpent Green, Ash Grey and
Beaver
1016
Other qualities in this Hat, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6.
These prices if you order by mail or call personally, for WE PAY CARRIAGE on all Goods except
Furniture, Floor Covering 1 , Kitchen and Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
GOOD HEALTH.
Without health life is robbed of all its pleasures,
and most of its successes. There is more good health
than you ever imagined in a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets. A reliable remedy that begins by cleansing
the stomach of all foul accumulations and finishes
by ‘toning up the entire system.*
A Reliable Remedy.
Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions and
irritations of the skin, Eczema, Pimples, Sores,: Chil-
blains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Itching or Bleeding
Piles, Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Scalds, Bad Legs, Stings
of Insects, and all kinds of Inflammation. J&exona
is sold only in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The Rev. Cortie, S.J., now lecturing in
Melbourne on “The Heavens We See,” gives
the old mother-in-law joke another airing
when he talks of comets. A comet, he says,
is “a sort of astronomical mother-in-law
that comes in our system for a short visit
and stays for ever after.” But things have
changed since the mother-in-law became a
“prop” of the comedy-man. Under present
social conditions mother-in-law is mostly a
practical elderly angel who comes to nurse
the baby, or give Ethel a hand with the
housework, and her visits are all too brief.
The Rev. Cortie, S.J., doesn’t know what
it is to welcome the wife’s mother when the
rare, occasional hired girl has gone off in
the inevitable huff.
THE EARLY DOOR CATCHES THE WORM
H E: “ Oh, but why such haste? "
SHE: “Oh, dear, it’s 12 o’clock, and the theatre opens at seven; and if I don’t hurry
I'll only have five hours to wait.”
“Kaylee” : My friend Hikkup, filling in his
census paper, wrote the word “Wowser”
against the query re religion. _As Mr.
Knibbs has not proceeded against him, I infer
that Wowserism is now officially recognised
as a form of irreligion.
There evidently is a shortage of labor in
Australia, with high wages as a consequence.
Thus, in one capital, a “free laborers’ union”
has been formed, and the principal officers
are to get three hundred pieces of gold a
year. Some time ago, for somewhat similar
work, a man was paid in silver.
A peculiar scuffle on the Inky Way has
just closed at Auckland (M.L.). It appears
that a reporter of a weekly paper was, or felt
he was, tabooed by the other scribes to the
extent that they would not sit beside him in
the press-box at the Supreme Court. The
indignant man wrote a paragraph setting
out that his paper was informed that one of
the “cads ... was named Bullen, a fifth-class
flunkey on the Herald, who is said to have
been born a cad, and has remained so ever
since.” There were other amazing remarks
in the paragraph ; but the most amazing fea-
tures of it were (1) that it was printed,
and (2; that the writer got hold of Bullen's
name by mistake. Bullen put a fuse to the
libel law. and demanded £lOO. Then “Moor-
ish Maid” Birch, chief reporter of the
Herald, bore witness that, “in these times,
a journalist was chosen for inclusion on the
staff of the big dailies largely on ac-
count of his character as a gentleman, and
for good address, as well as for his compet-
ency. Consequently to say that a journalist
was a cad, and to publish that statement,
was very likely to block all avenues of em-
ployment to him.” Which so impressed the
jury that it gave a verdict on the spot for
the full amount claimed and expenses.
The threatened storm between Acting-Pre-
mier Holman and Works-Minister Griffith,
of the Ma State, has apparently blown over,
like a trouble last March between Holman
and Carmichael, which threatened to disrupt
the Ministry. When McGowen departed for
Europe his job was divided, Holman being
chalked up as Acting-Premier and Carmi-
chael as Acting-Treasurer. But neither
could decide where McGowen left off being
Premier and became Treasurer, or whether
he wasn’t Treasurer as a general thing and
Premier in his spare time. Anyhow, his
ship wasn’t far outside the harbor before
Holman had squatted in McGowen’s seat in
the Treasury building. Carmichael delicate-
ly hinted that that was his seat, and, finding
hints valueless, seized the furniture with the
first opportunity. Then followed a scramble
as to who could reach the room first in the
mornings, until Holman gave orders that the
Premier’s chair, staff and papers were to be
transported to the Attorney-General’s office
at the other end of Macquarie-street. Con-
sequently, one morning, the astonished clerks
saw their papers, books and desks being
seized by strong men and dumped into drays.
Joining in the procession, all hands trooped
up Macquarie-street, and had got half-way
before Carmichael rallied his forces and pur-
sued the procession with orders to return.
For the next few hours the members of the
Cabinet had their coats off pouring oil on
the storm, and when peace was declared
honors were even. Holman got the letters
patent of the entire Acting-Premiership, Car-
michael got the chair.
“Bark Holden” : Apropos memorials of the
S’African unpleasantness. Sale (Vic.) has
the most appropriate one in the country. It
is the usual fountain; the trickle comes from
a bore whose water is charged with sulphur-
etted hydrogen. The smell is just right.
REASON ENOUGH.
CURIOUS FEMALE : “ Why do you go barefoot , my poor man?”
GENTEEL JIMMY : “ Because , madam , I have not the appliances and means to boot."
The sturdy financial spirit of Scotchbyter-
ianism was displayed the other week in re-
gard to the last will and testament of a Vic-
torian landowner, who went down to the sea
in the bad ship Waratah. From his estate
of £230,000 the ill-fated passenger—Neil
Walter Black —had bequeathed some £8000
to various Scochbyterian religious institu-
tions, and the Vic. Full Court was asked to
decide what interest should be allowed on
those legacies from the date when the will
might have been proved (if the drowning of
Mr. Black had been known as soon as it
occurred) to the time when the money was
forthcoming.
The old row between the N.S.W. branch
of the British Medical Association and the
friendly societies is to be nosed into by one
of the Labor Government’s innumerable Com-
missions. The matter has been taken that
far by a rival Sawbones’ association,_ which
now numbers about 40 members. This asso-
ciation, which is branded “Blackleg” by the
B.M.A., alleges that its members are black-
listed for the sin of taking certain contract
jobs from friendly societies. It doesn’t ap-
pear to be a question of undercutting; any-
how, the new association alleges that some
of the B.M.A. men have taken friendly so-
ciety work for less money than some of the
alleged blacklegs are getting. So far as the
friendly-society people are concerned, the
most serious trouble is that, when the alleged
blackleg is in charge of a case, the B.M.A.
specialist—practically all _ specialists are
B.M.A. men—won’t come in for consulta-
tion. The Government can’t be expected to
have much sympathy for blacklegs, if they
are blacklegs; on the other hand, if it can be
shown that they are not blacklegs, or don’t
deserve to be branded as blacklegs, a lot of
friendly-society men who are good unionists
will feel much more comfortable about em-
ploying them than they do at present.
* * * *
“Jim Ballast,” from the stockyard : —
“Snaffle” (B. 25/5/’ll) says that, when the French
Brigadier quoted the French army remount officer’s
report re the deterioration of the Australian horse
through racing, his friend “urged what he could on
the other side,” hut naturally received in reply a
polite shrug. But what could “Snaffle’s” friend pro-
duce on the other side? The Australian racehorse is
only fit for racing, and nine-tenths of hint is only
fit for six furlongs, with 6st. up—somewhere there-
about, anyway. The whole lot of Australian racers
yarded and sold for utility purposes wouldn’t average
a fiver apiece. We’ve scarcely a champion race in
Australia, which is sufficient proof that the time-
rotten excuse for establishing a new race club—“to
improve the breed of horses in the district” —-is a
lie. And when it comes to considering the iniquity
of pony-racing, words fail, and not even a Frenchman
could possibly be polite.
The French Government has at its stud farms over
1000 thoroughbred stallions, especially bred for
utility. They are substantial in body while being
fine in bone, and are well able to drag or carry
heavyweights over long distances. Against these
“Snaffle” can only show the crossbred roadster, useful
enough truly, but in most cases lacking symmetry,
through the pronounced tendency to “throw” to one
side or the other of its breeding, and fre-
quently in certain parts of its frame only.
Many good breeders declare that no more than
one roadster in seven will prove reasonably sym-
metrical, and a glance at any page of photos., show-
ing “useful remount” types, confirms this statement.
No horse showing such defects could possibly be as
safe and reliable as one bred true to type, nor will
it prove so good a “doer.”
It is up to the State to have a say in horse-breed-
ing, for Private Enterprise, as usual, forgets to be
patriotic. There should be a vet. test throughout
the Commonwealth, the short heavy-handicap busi-
ness should be sat on hard, and pony-racing prohi-
bited. Decent breeders would welcome some legisla-
tion on the matter, for they know the truth as well
as the French officer did.
An army of J.P.’s waited on Acting-Pre-
mier Holman the other day to make a string
of requests with the object of raising its in-
dividual and collective “dignity.” Its main
objects were to acquire for J.P.’s. the right to
sit on the Metropolitan Bench in the ordin-
ary courts, and the right to boss the Chil-
dren’s Courts. Holman spoke kindly to the
deputation, but refused to concede the two
main ponts. The chief argument of the
J.P.’s was that the species in Victoria had
more powers than in N.S.W.; but remember-
ing some of the extraordinary samples of
“J.P.” Justice served up on the Victorian
Bench, that argument was like inviting a
torchlight procession to dance in a powder-
magazine.
The preliminary count of the census fig-
ures gives the population of N.S.W. as
1,648,000, and Victoria 1,315,000. These
figures are a triumph for Knibbs, the Fed-
eral Statistician, whose estimates are much
nearer the mark than the State Statisti-
cians’. In N.S.W. Knibbs is 16,000 out,
while the local Statist’s office, where the mar-
vellous Railway Superannuation Scheme
was hatched, is 53,000 out. But the.,grand
result shows that a large slice of the popu-
lation must have escaped the count. N.S.W..
Vic. and W.A. show among them a total of
60,000 fewer people than even the Common-
wealth Statist expected. There are five ex-
planations: (1) That the inhabitants have
planted their friends, like Butler and Deem-
ing did, (2) that tens of thousands have
stowed away in foreign-going steamers, (3)
that the lost 60,000 are in the other three
States. (4) that the 60,000 never existed,
and (5) that the census-man didn’t count all
the people. And No. 5 seems the most plau-
sible of the lot.
A FRESH DEAL.
[Foe The Bulletin.]
London, Thursday.—The railways are arranging
to land 1,000,000 passengers in Inner London before
9.30 a.m. on Coronation Day.— Cable.
The cannon boom and the church bells ring;
The piled-up pack are watching the King.
This is the thought each knave has got:
“Wonder if he is a trump or not?”
N.s.w. THE JOKER.
* * * *
“D.” : “Do you not know,” said Mr. (say)
Jones, the Sydney lawyer, to a witness in the
Shearers’ Case, “that you can live for less
than 30s. a week in Sydney?” Of course
Mr. (say) Jones knows. Present writer and
he have the pleasure of lunching together
three or four times a week at a fourpenny
restaurant in Pitt-street; when we have ac-
cumulated a few empty bottles, we trade ’em
away for the price of entrance to a football-
match. The doorkeeper at the prize-fights is
an old schoolmate of (say) Jones’s, and w'hen
the boss isn’t looking he sometimes sneaks
the two of us into a back seat. The doss-house
(say) Jones introduced me to is not half
so bad, when you get used to —-to them.
Summer afternoons him and me have a
pretty good time in the surf, if we can raise
the tram-fares. Jones says he used to
live much cheaper before he made his repu-
tation as a lawyer; in those days his address
after 9 p.m. was the Domain. “I’ve
been on the Bench,” says he; that’s his little
joke. But he’s in steady work as a lawyer
now, and he’s making a good thirty-bob a
week; which (as he says) is plenty for a
man to live on in this town. You only
want to know how to do it; and me and
(say) Jones get along very well, without try-
ing to bleed our poor hard-up employers for
another bob or two.
AS THE SPARK FLIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Riverina and Cooma left Melbourne on W ed-
nesday, the former bound for Fremantle, the latter for
Sydney. On Thursday night, when these boats v ere
nearly 1000 miles apart, with the raging gale be-
tween them, the Cooma signals reached Melbourne
in the teeth of the gale louder than the Riverina sig-
nals with the gale. Melbourne was in a vortex of
storm, the wind howling, and the receiving aerial
dripping like a wet umbrella, yet, notwithstanding it
all, the messages of the boats went through.—Wire-
less operator in Melbourne Aoe.
Black night and a south-west gale;
The wind and the sea at grips;
Now pity them, steam and sail,
The hunted, blundering ships;
Like wallowing.brutes they fight
The furies that lie in wait,
Charging lions of the Bight
And leaping wolves of the Strait.
The rain drips down from the wires ;
The wind makes war on the trees;
Ashore by their glowing fires
Some dream of the hunting seas . . .
What call was that from the gloom
So sudden and faint and crisp ?
Through thunders of death and doom
You have heard the wireless lisp!
From cabin and masthead light
To crest of the seaward hill.
The long spark whispers aright
Whatever its master will:
Last w*rd of the outward bound,
Excuse of the overdue;
The messenger blind gropes round
Till it gets the message through.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


Rich, Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’s
put
t
in
the
Soap
out
in \
the l
clothes.
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the " Pure Food Act, 1908,"
fey Lever Brothers Limited,
Sydney. N.S.W.
No. 57.
V/tf
Hunyadf
Janos
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bov/els. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
*—and drink half a tumbler
on arising, before breakfast, for |
CONSTIPATION
Wild's Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is the
proper place to go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and face massage done in the latest,
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 ; Satur-
day close at 1 o’clock.*
uhjiuojoj
AN OVERCOAT YOU
WILL BE PROUD OF at
52j6
IN all our Men’s Wear we carry no styles that are vulgarised by
too general use. We lead in style always—and this Overcoat is
an instance of our exclusive range of goods.
It has the fairly full skirt and moulded shoulders that take
Fashion’s demand —■ the materials are all rainproofed in the
fabric, and include a nice lot of Grey and Brown Herringbone
Tweeds, Fawn-colored Checks, and a select few Dark Brown
Tweeds with Green Stripes.
Price
32|6
Posted 1/- extra.
Inter-State, 1/6 extra.
PEAPES (Q. CO. Ltd.
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The lady with the horsewhip is still
abroad- Last week she turned up with her
man-taming appliance in a northern M.L.
town, and gave both weal and woe to a
local . storekeeper. According to her hus-
band’s story, the grocer gentleman had made
“certain statements” concerning the lady.
Whereupon: —
She asked me'to allow her to horsewhip him. I
agreed, and in the morning we went together and
bought a . Waitable whip Calling several witnesses
to follow us, my wife and 1 went to the shop and
she administered the premeditated punishment. I
then addressed the crowd.
Apparently the grocer took it lying down.
This merely shows the cunning of Eve. She
never does take .her green-liide to the hard-
faced citizen who will be liable to put her
over his knee and spank her with the thick
end of her argument.
“Vagabond”: The question is not, unfortu-
nately, whether the kilt is a suitable bag for
the body in Australia br not. As long as we
have the present voluntary system of enrol-
ment for adults the Jocks have only to say :
“If you won’t let us wear our kilts or kick-
shaws, we won’t wear a rifle or bayonet, and
be blowed to you!” and Australia must
crawl down. When the country makes up
its mind and plunks down a firm and immov-
able hoof, and says with a loud voice that
every man between 18 and 30 must bear
arms, then it can choose the uniform it
thinks most suitable, and the men will have
to get into it. Under present conditions, if
someone comes along and jolts our country
a rude crack on the jaw, it will have to be
glad to let the crowds wear anything or no-
thing—kilts or shirt-sleeves or surf costumes.
But by the Queensbury Rules of War, any
prisoner taken fighting, or with a rifle con-
cealed about him, and without a uniform,
will not only be liable to, but probably will
be, shot on sight.
A T.L THE SAME TO HIM.
THE OPTIMIST : “ Wol’s it to he, ’Avoid—
table-de-hote, or a snack at the club?”
WHAT DO YOU THINK HE THOUGHT?
POLITICAL PASSENGER : “ What I say is, there's too much of this cry of ‘ Back to the
Land!’ What do you think?”
The first Wages Board gazetted in Tas-
mania is to deal with the boot trade. For it
was written: “The last shall be first!”
# * * *
“Horatio B.” : Some men contract the S.
M. Herald-Argus trouble very early in life.
I know one who started to say “The time is
not yet ripe” before he was 25. Still it
comes as a shock to see, H. G. Wells writ-
ing things like this: “I am anxious to influ-
ence thinking people between 18 and 30
years of age. There is not much use in try-
ing to get hold of people over 30. When
they have once taken on the burthen of life
they do not want to change.” So a keen
observer like Wells sets the limit; at whicl*
the average human being is willing to re-
ceive fresh ideas as low as 30. It is like
handcuffing Freedom before the lady is pro-
perly awake.
Things look promising for an improvement
in the Melbourne police service. After Chief
Commissioner O’Callaghan’s overcoat had
been stolen from Moonee Valley the other
week, a South Melbourne constable was
robbed of a suite of furniture which he had
placed in a house he was about to occupy.
Now that the inefficency of the force has be-
gun to find it out, and the sins of the system
are being visited on the officers, the way of
the evil-doer is likely to become harder. No-
thing like killing the captain if you want to
get protection for the private! For instance,
there was no talk of aviation regulations un-
til a flying machine fell heavily on the Pre-
mier of France and his late colleague. And
if only an Archbishop would allow him Self to
be chewed by a plague-stricken rat, every
alderman would declare war on the pest
within a week.
* * * *
The Mackintosh, a Highland chieftain who
owns most of Invernesshire, was asked last
month to explain the prevailing Bolt from
Scotland. He said :
The continual advertisement of the advantages of
our colonies and the United States, combined with
School Board education and the unsettled state of
the labor market, as against the high wages and
Protection in the adopted countries, are beginning to
tell.
While he mentioned these obvious factors,
the Mackintosh, as a great landlord, was coy-
ly silent about two little beasts that have
more to answer for than anything else —the
deer and the grouse. There are certain
duties which convention absolutely forces on
the socially-aspiring millionaire —English,
American, S’African or Australian —and one
of them is the purchase of a Scottish deer-
forest or grouse-moor or both. A Jew shoots
over what was once a Royal estate. Yankees
own vast properties like Balmacaan and
Skibo. These and a thousand other “shoots”
must not be cultivated. The crofter may
potter about with a few hens and a sheep or
two, but the heather mustn’t go, the nests
mustn’t be disturbed, and the stag mustn’t
have his native wilds interfered with. As a
result, the arable land at the disposal of the
Scotch yeoman, sturdy and otherwise, is now
nearing vanishing point. Provided the
world’s supply of millionaires keeps up, the
time must come when the country-dwelling
Scot will consist exclusively of (1) the land-
lord (mostly named Cohenstein or Silas K.
Jobson), (2) the ghillie, (3) the beater,
(4) the dog-boy, (5) the dog.
After a legal scuffle between the Whanga-
nui tribes and the Ngatimaniapoto Maoris,
which has lasted for over 14 years, the former
warriors have finally won the title to 4000
acres of totara forest country near Taumar-
anui. The first horsehair referee who was
called in took life easy, and gave each party
a helping; but that was no good to Ilenare or
Pita, and from the resulting appeal Whanga-
nui emerged with the lot. But Ngatiete war-
whooped till a Royal Commission was ap-
pointed, and, after a re-hearing, Whanganui
went into the soup-tureen. When the tribe
climbed out it tore round and appealed some
more, and once again collected the property.
Then the Ngatimaniapotos got their final
chance, and failed to make good. They fore-
saw defeat before judgment was announced,
for their chief witness, in passing back the
Book after being sworn, dropped it on the
floor. From that moment Ngatimaniapoto
knew their case was a coffin.
The owner of a new Sydney hash-house
reckoned that the new sign was a winner,
it caught so many eyes. Then an interfer-
ing person told him what was the matter.
The painter had put it up this way : “Dn-
der < New Management. 3 Coarse Meals,
Gd.” He sniffed in the doorway and de-
cided to let it go at that.
* * * *
‘‘Whaffor” : I recently made a trip up the
Murray from Morgan (S.A.) to Mildura
(Vic.), calling at the prohibition townships
of Waixarie, Loxton, Renrnark and Mil-
dura. The “prohibition” is a farce, or
worse; for this part of the Murray is the
home of the sly-grog seller. Instead of get-
ting a decent drink at a pub, you get poison
from a “bumboat.” Waikarie, which is a
rising agricultural settlement, has no accom-
modation of any sort for travellers. Neither
has Loxton. You have to camp under a tree.
If the Wowsers want prohibition, then why
don’t they erect some sort of dwelling for
visitors looking for land? It’s a scandal.
At Renrnark there is a Gothenberg hotel,
and several clubs. Further up, Mildura is
one of the heaviest drinkers I have yet
struck —in Victoria, at any rate. The Cof-
fee Palace has a wine license, and there is a
club where every sort of grog can be purchased.
Hunting for the sly-groggers, policemen pa-
trol the river dressed as swagmen; but cap-
ture is most difficult. And when there is a
conviction—well, it’s a fine, and then worse
grog still to pay for it.
A French physician has discovered that
smoking promotes, deafness, “by the well-
known effect of nicotine on the vaso-motor
system, which produces vascular hyperten-
sive phenomena which are not compensated
m the cavity of the tympanum.” As soon
as line Bulletin received the news it
threw its old cherrywood down the Wild
Cat shaft, and, rushing round to the chemist
next the Blue Anchor, asked for a remedy.
“Water,” said the druggist laconically, and
went on rolling up his breadcrumbs.
A tram ride in Sydney will never be what
it should be till the doors facing the oppo-
site lines are closed up, and people pre-
vented from riding on the footboards.
Women (usually the short dumpy ones who
are hard to see) persist in getting off the
wrong side, and invariably turn their faces
to the tail of the car, so that in the event
ot a spill they may have the better chance
ot a fractured skull. The killing of one
Holroyd on a recent day was another ex-
ample of the risks passengers take. Two
trams were travelling in opposite directions,
and standing on the inside footboard of each
of them was a passenger. One car was
slowing down, and one of the men went to
dismount without seeing the man on the
other footboard. They collided; and now
one is dead and the other is injured. A
very simple contrivance would enable the
conductor to lock the doors facing the oppo-
site line of rails at the end of each run;
and, if the footboards were hinged, the one
on the closed-door side could be put out of
action, and thus barred from being the hor-
rible menace to life that it is under present
arrangements.
To what use can a Governor be put when
there are no Parliaments or bazaars to
open? Victoria made an effort to solve the
question recently by driving its unemployed
Fuller through the rain-drenched wilds of
Gippsland to Wontliaggi, the coal township,
and there putting into his chilled hands a
locally-baked brick. According to Melbourne
Age, he “turned it over and over, and ap-
peared to be greatly interested.” Well, what
is a cold, polite man to do with a presenta-
tion brick except turn it over and over? He
dare not assume a startled expression, and
declare that it is the most original brick he
lias ever seen. One of the chief virtues of
a good brick is that it is exactly like all
other good bricks. From a brick point of
view, to be excellent is to be ordinary. An
abnormal brick is hateful to a bricklayer.
Brickmalcers, therefore, deliberately strive
after dulness. Hence it is very hard to say
something really graceful about a brick-'-
especially on a wet day at Wontliaggi.
THE IRONY OF FATE.
THE BIRD : “ Wiskter Heaven I could fly!"
The Vic. Government is convinced that the
official home of its newly imported and to-
tally superfluous Governor is inadequate to>
shelter his entire menage. Wherefore Watt
and his Cabinet are looking for a palace that
will meet the demands of an imitation Court.
So far, no suitable building has been found;
but should efforts fail to locate a dwelling,
it is understood, on the very worst authority,
that the Government will lease the Exhibi-
tion,
EARLY CLOSING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wee Willie Judkins is now agitating for the
compulsory closing of pubs at 6 p.m.
From early morn till midnight chime,
We hear the nocent Judkins spout;
There is no limit to the time
W T hen Woodfull rises up to shout;
Though weak men shriek, and strong men yawn,
The tribe may prate from dawn to dawn.
They clamor for the bolted door,
They battle for the shattered cup;
Each wearisome artesian bore
Aspires to put the shutters up—
Apostle of eternal skite,
He shuts up never, day or night.
The time is here! Awake, arise,
Free people, and put forth your best,
To agitate in earnest wise ,
For seven decent days of rest,
And one most necessary pact—
A Judkins Early Closing Act!
VICTORIA.
SNELL.
TWO ROSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This morn they blossomed, side by side,
Two rosebuds, white and red;
To-night one glows in ruddy pride,
And one is lying dead.
The red rose will not, when it dies,
The other’s honor share;
The white pleased best my lady’s eyes,
And decked awhile her hair.
VICTORIA.
FRANK BELLMAN.


If the choice lies between municipal!*
satlon of the trams and their acquire*
ment by the Government, we have no
doubt at all that the ratepayers would
produce much better management than
could be expected from the Government.
But it will be vain in either case to ex-
pect anything approaching the standard
oi management and efficiency attained
under the present system. y
'AVj^S
jo* sad^fied,
'ta k Ke« > Gver 50 roach
moice oaf of yow
\tW> a^y b ° a y
'J ©l<>e Could
R
do.'
That this Chamber strongly protests
against .the utterance of Mr. Justice
Higgins in making his award in connec-
tion with the Engine Drivers and Fire-
men’s Association before the Arbitra-
tion Court, as they are not conducive to
the promotion of that amicable relation-
ship which should exist between em-
ployer and employee.
of
The statement was made by Dr. Mak-
gill, health officer for Auckland, that the 1
plague season extends over April, May
and June; and that corresponds with the
I flea season. The times at which the
.plague was at its worst among human
beings coincided with the flea season.
—T-*' e |
'"jjre 15 wrong.
does nor n'dc * f>aXe
"The f/e* 'S
Ye Tj ic*e>.
■TJ frequevrt robW.**, o{
-tfU Mas ourne,
fol I CC. |
Chsxf on1of>:-" How dve
Vott 't«H 'tfj* mzp 'ke isdown .
} Know wh&ryotxrc y oa
lo desTroy H?e £*nc&>|e
gvfions^l s w H»cly Should
employee-"
FREE WORKERS’ SOCIETY.
An excellent beginning has been made
with the movement initiated during e
agricultural implement trade strik
establish a free appointed
secretary. < a'nd Mr. J. T. Packer organ-
iser. each a. a salary of £3OO . year.
free A
\{or Ker<- \fl
Ayi d r i
-fee
k V
Unionist Free. Wo* K«»'S .- „ <
Yes, vow ve 1p et
to do cyerythiup -for norbme-
-OM - Mi ou*- 1 *
\Y»ii(jnn"n We delete •pe. K
QuickC QimcK b,
rowvia^Tole'— DowY 1 Know ii~ ? H^s nt_ W
JuVT robbed me ? I cv>f follow'
"Vim- He's I eft" me -i© p<rf~on
me riumbe l '.'
yjone-i, Imfafctb*'
%<,
buK tiH nooo, "THe. e(,
rr,^tly dt*e to ifte
\ «»[» Age.
/v\bj> v/Ho o Some
liquor nioV)1" "S
" Wb&f, no f>icK me uja ?
Tbe« m
me ibe
} -
sl&Ke. \nvj ihi rjt"so me^ov/
VARIOUS VICTORIAN TROUBLES.


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
A
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Ring's and Pendants and
Jewellery generally at prices never before attempted in Australia.
WHY?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous
output ; we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the
actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of
customers.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures']
Cash.J
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Exquisite Diamonds and Two
Whole Pearls, £2l.
Pearls and Australian Pink
Tourmalines, £B/8/=
ABORIGIN-
ALLITES
ONE SCHOOL AND ANOTHER.
“My dear brother, I have started a school which will meet on the afternoon of every
Sabbath. ”
“No good to me, boss. I got cleaned out last week."
“11.5. M.”: Didn’t I hear some Abo-
fool say that no poisonous snake climbed? Well,
listen. I was out mustering sheep this morning,
and when riding under an old leaning dead tree, a
tiger snake 2ft. 6in. fell and hit my hat. It
landed on the pony’s back behind the saddle, and
wriggled under the pigskin. Luckily, I had a good,
thick cloth, and this no doubt saved the prad. I
slipped off, undid the girth, and slung the saddle
quick and lively. Then I settled accounts with the
cause of the disturbance.
“Kodak”: The grimmest invitation ever
nailed to a post-and-rail fence was the work of an
embittered selector who, after living and toiling
alone for years amongst the glum and wooden-
headed people of Dreary Plains, had been ruined by
the drought. “Them as Wants to Can see me Hang
Mesolf in this Paddick at 3 o’clock Tuesday. No
refreshments provided. I am Sick of this dam hole
and all in it.—-Joe M.” It was on view for a week,
and, although the district made no sign, at 2 o’clock
on the day fixed, all the able-bodied men for miles
round were sitting like crows on the fence of the
“paddick,” in the centre of which had been erected
a rough gallows. At 2.30, amidst dead silence, the
doomed man walked down from the house with an
empty kerosene case and a short length of soaped
rope with a running-noose at one end. Getting up
on the box he affixed it firmly to the cross-beam.
Then he got down, and, standing off a little dis-
tance, eyed it critically. Apparently satisfied, he
went off up to the house again, cutting tobacco and
filling his pipe on the wav. “He’s goin’ t’ have a
lasht shmoke,” croaked an old man, thoughtfully..,
The performer, ere he reached the house, turned and
surveyed the black line of dreary plainsmen on
the grandstand, like the business-manager of an
out-door entertainment. Then he went in, and the
audience settled down to wait. The fatal hour of
3 came and went silently, but the suicide did not
appear. Another half-hour went by without any-
thing happening, A small, impatient boy detached
himself from the crowd and wandered up to the
house. He looked fearfully in the back door, and
observed the desperate insolvent lying on his stretcher
—smoking. “Ain’t yer goin’ t’ hang yerself t’-day,
Joe?” he whined. “They’re all waitin’ for yer.”
The doomed one scratched his chin, and, after a
moment’s, thought, heaved himself off his resting-
place, and extracted from a cupboard a hammer,
two long nails and an immense bit of battered card-
board. “Nail that there cardboard t’ th’ gallers,
an’ mind yer get it right side up,” he drawled, and
resumed his horizontal meditations. The awe-struck
lad hurried out to do his bidding, and the “paddick”
soon resounded to the vigorous clouts of the hammer.
When the job was complete and he stepped aside,
the Dreary Plainsmen read in large black letters
the words “Sports Postponed.”
There are healthier ways of killing a dog
than drowning him, as a Timaru (M.L.) man is pre-
pared to solemnly take oath. AVhen the death sen-
tence was passed on his old retriever, the man procured
a light row-boat, the dog, a piece of rope and a good-
sized rock. With these implements he proceeded to
the deep water of the harbor, hitched his mongrel
to the stone and threw the combination overboard.
But the stone slipped from its noose, and the animal
started to clamber back into the boat. The owner
resented this so energetically that he fell overboard
himself, and when a passing craft rescued him he
was just reaching for the bell.St Death’s door, while
the dog was sunning himself on the gunwale of the
boat and yelping loud applause at his master’s dying
struggles. -
“Yalgun” contradicts all hands:—
This howl against child-slavery on cow farms
arises from foolish imagination. The kiddies in
reality have the foundation laid of industrious,
sober, thrifty lives, and they enjoy it. Milking,
feeding ,fowls, lighting the fire are nothing laborious.
Wang (B. 25/5/ 11) would have young girls on
dairy farms spend their time sleeping and dolling
their hair instead of learning to milk and rear calves
and manage a home. As for the average State school-
boy, whether it is his fault or the fault of the edu-
cation system I don t know, but it is seldom you
meet one worth his breakfast.
TOO CHIVALROUS - TO TELL.
BENNO ( suddenly aware of a fearful loss): “ Who's pinched vie boshter law?”
BINGEY (with contempt): “I suppose yer fink Pm gain’ ter tell yer an ’ put me little
brother away!”
“Border View, 1v.C.,” for the defendant: —
[ beg leave to get a word in edgeways in favor
of the cow cocky, particularly on the count that he
looks upon his women folk as mere milking-
machines. “Curfew” (B. 11/5/’ll) and others like
him are either exhibiting cheap wit on that subject,
or they are extremely ignorant of the respect most
of these young eockies have for women. Very many
of them, when they get married, will not have their
wives in the milking-yard at all if they can help it.
Certainly, numbers of married women have to milk,
but to say that, and pin a charge upon it that the
dairy farmer is callous to the greatest of the natural
feelings, is an unfair assault on the instincts of the
native-born settler and the credulity of the public.
* * * *
"C.D.0.” : Re blackfellow humorists.
Jacky Bundaburra, buried somewhere on the Lachlan,
figures in more Western jokes than most drovers
remember. Caught with a bottle of beer under his
shirt, he replied with a wink to the sergeant’s
question as to where he gathered it, “What! You
think I put ol’ Missis Dunn away! ” He was
nabbed “on the premises” one Sunday, and ex-
plained it: “Well, I walk alonga camp to Forbes,
t’at four mile; get lost li’ll’ while, ’nother mile;
now walk alono-a camp, four mile; get lost li’ll’
while, ’nother mile—lo mile altogether; Jacky
traveller then, same white pfeller. Mine’s pinter-
beer.” Jack was awarded a month hard by Butler,
P.M. “Can’t do it,” he announced from the dock.
“Mus’ get out Burrawang nex’ Monday for the
shearin’; or, by cripe, ol’ Misser Edols kick up plurry
row.” He got off.
“L. 8.” The 36ft. shark recently caught at
the Chatham Islands, though of unusual length,
may be swallowed without salt. For many years
the whalemen at Bampton Shoals, Chesterfield Reefs,
and thereabouts, were used to the sight of 40ft.'
sharks—few in number, certainly. Two or three
of these big fellows would sometimes tackle a calf
whale and make short work of it. The Polynesian
native when in the water does not fear these mon-
sters as much as the short, thick shark of, say, Bft.
to 10ft. (and he is not much scared of these except
it is night time and raining), for a very lengthy
brute is somewhat slow in' slewing, and can be
easily dodged by a good swimmer with plenty of
nerve. Probably the largest of all the shark
family, known to exist nowadays is the harmless
“bone” shark, so named because it has its mouth
fitted with plates of baleen; nevertheless it is a
true shark. Many whalemen assert that they have
seen these creatures over 50ft. long, basking on the
surface.
“Leo Lear” delivers a young lecture :-
Various writers have got into a bog re Australia':
mound-building birds. There are three of them
• —the scrub fowl ( Megapodius duperreyi), the scrub
turkey ( Catheturus lathanii ), and the mallee fowl
(Lipoa ocellata). The scrub fowl inhabits the tropi-
cal scrubs of Queensland, the Territory and W.A.,
and also the islands that fringe the coast. They put
more material into their nests than any other bird in
the wofld, but don’t do it all in one year. Starting
from a small mound in the first year, they add to
the heap till it approaches 10ft. in height and 28ft.
diameter at base. The nests are seldom far from
tidal waters, and are biggest near C. York. The
second bird-navvy is also a northern inhabitant, and
is not unlike the domestic turkey, though smaller,
and makes a good dinner. The nests are not as large
as those of Megapodius, seldom being over 3ft. high.
These incubators contain much decayed vegetation;
also snakes (not decayed). The mallee fowl pervades
mallee scrub, but is rapicjly disappearing inside the
imported fox. The fowls’ mounds are about the same
size as those of Catheturus, and contain a lower com-
partment of hot, wet, decaying leaves, over which the
eggs are placed. The young mallee chicks, unlike
their cousins, cannot usually dig themselves out to
daylight. But, as the parents have a habit of open-
ing up the nursery to air the blankets every morn-
ing, any youngster that is ready packs his swag and
takes to the scrub. A number of points are common
to all earth constructors. The eggs are laid at day-
break, at intervals of two or three days, and are
placed on end, small-ways down ; the temperature of
the nest is always close handy to 95 ; only one pair
of birds construct, lay, and give general attendance
to each nest; all specimens are shy, and seldom fly
unless disturbed, though at night they camp in high
trees. They share with emus the distinction of being
in the lowest order of our bird-life.
* * * *
“Sliprail” : The Wimmera Plains and Mal-
lee country (Vic.), the land of wheat, has been
scourged with another mice plague, the fourth in 12
years. The pests overrun house and farm, and
will tackle anything from a leg of mutton to a
marriage certificate. They play havoc with stacks
of hay and wheat, and pick the grain from the soil
as it sprouts. This season’s visitors developed a
disease, which shows in a white spot just above
the nose. Men working in mousey hay or corn con-
tract this plague, which breaks out upon the skin
like ringworm or eczema, generally on the hands or
face. A remarkable feature of the invasion is that
when the mice descend upon a district in hordes
they are fully grown, with splendid molars, whereas
if they were born of the flesh they should be in
all stages from the frolicsome youth to the toothless
veteran. Can any Bulletin naturalist explain the
peculiarity ?
WHEN THE JIM-JAMS NEST AGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Night rolls on through scarlet hours and np one
heeds my yell,
For all are dead, including the marines ;
And I am here alive in til's menagerie of hell —
A life that slipped between the shifting screens.
The hang-faced fiend who welcomed me was blood to
elbow-bend —
The local butcher said his name was Cain.
He put me up at his own pub: “No charge,” lie
said, “my friend ;
We’ll square up ere the jim-jams nest again.”
lie handed me a blazing snake to light me up the
stairs;
A blue-winged vampire took me bv the hand ;
Blotched bull-dog slugs and centipedes marched on
ahead in pairs,
And wild blood-blisters danced a saraband.
We turned into the private bar; the boss, an octo-
pus,
Was feeding frogs with drops of molten chain.
“A quart of rum,” I cried to him, “and instantane-
ous—
I’ll pay you when the jim-jams nest again.”
At that his eye dropped on the floor, and, as he
stooped for it,
A stream of dead men’s teeth poured through the
hole ;
And some were sharp, and some were white, and
some were black and split—-
A green eel placed them all within a bowl,
And passed them to the octopus, who dropped them
one by one
A-down the gaping eyelet through his brain.
“The rum,” he snarled, and turned to me, “is far
too old to run;
Don’t hunt it till the jim-jams nest again.”
So here I toss upon my bed of cold, pulsating
snakes,
And watch the lampreys slime along the walls;
A mouthless devil combs my brain and raises it in
flakes;
Upon my limbs the hairy spider crawls.
Far oft' are rivers filled with beer, wide crystal
streams 'of .gin,
And when the snakes are dead, the devil slain,
I’ll take the shortest track to them, and soak my
burning skin —-
In the season when the jim-jams nest again.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


The Army of
Constipation
Is Growing Smaller Every Day.
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS are
responsible—they not
only give relief—
they permanently
cure Constipation.
Millions use
them for
uhjiuojoj
Carters
WITTLE •
IVER
PILLS.
Biliousness,
Indigestion,
Sick Headache, Sallow Skin.
SMALL PILL, SMALL DOSE, SMALL PBICE.
GENUINE must benr Signature
N CQQ
Weare Born to
offer Benefits
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
1 OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 George St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly agrainst
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Stockfeld \
H. S. Doherty /.
Joint
Managers.
A.N.A. Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in=
dustries. I shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
SANDOW says s
PLASMON
is the essential food I have so long wished
for. I would never be without it.”
Australian Depot: 5& 7, Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Konini”: Can’t say anything discredit-
able about the Australian cuckoo, but the Maoriland
specimen, known as pipiwharauroa, ought to be
warned off the course. My particular objection to
him is that he is rapidly helping to put the sweet-
tongued riro riro out of existence. This little chap
builds a hanging residence with an open doorway,
and on returning in the evening from the musical
matinGe he as often as not discovers an egg in the
parlor which has apparently laid itself. As a
matter of fact, the egg was put there by a loafing
cuckoo, and, on being hatched, the gluttonous young
one wears out the life of the small riros in their
struggle to keep it in food. Finally, the growing-
stranger forces the gentle riros out of the home alto-
gether, and adds insult to injury by turning the bal-
cony into a gay bachelor’s flat, where all the cuckoo
chorus girls do high-kicking and other pastimes.
Then what the Wowser calls “the evidences of their
shame” are deposited in riros’ domiciles, and
so the process of extinction goes on.
* * * *
“Jobber”: I want to start a society for
the suppression of the fiend who answers “That’s
right” to every remark, whether it’s right or not.
It gets on my nerves. There’s one here now, and
I’ll start on him as soon as you issue a license. This
is the sort of thing I’ve been having for the past
half-hour:—
Him: What sorter place is Queensland?
Me: Good place.
Him: That’s right. Can a bloke get a job easy ?
Me: Whips of work up North.
Him: That’s right. What sorter hours and pay?
Me: Good —in places.
Him: ’s right.
Me: If you go in crushing time you can knock out
a good cheque easy.
Him: ’s right.
And so on. Now, am I justified in outing the cow?
If you think it’s a fair thing I’ll get busy at once,
and life will run a good deal more smoothly for me.
THE USES OF CHRISTIAN
HERALDRY.
RECHARTTE (nervously): “ A flagon of beer,
please, and would ye mind wrappin ’ it up
in this? I belong to the Rachy bites. ”
“B. Nana” : Anybody who desires to keep
blowflies from a horse’s injured leg or body need
only apply a little turps, and the inhabitants will
leave immediately. Next, wash the affected part
with warm water and common soap—give it plenty
of wash. Finally, paint the wound over with a
mixture of Stockholm tar and oil (castor or
olive), one of oil to three of tar. I guarantee this
lot to abolish, not only the blowing pest, but every
other winged reptile.
“ Well, and what are you doing on my property?”
"'Sense me, guvnor, I fell out er my atroplane.”
“Eddyson”: Does the bush breed eccen-
trics, or do eccentrics take to the bush ? My ex-
perience of the wilds was not extensive, but I met
dozens of men who were beyond normal. Bates was
only an aggravation of a common type. His weak-
ness was for passionate and ravenous animals. His
dog, a cross between plain. bull and bull-terrier,
was the most vicious brute I have ever encountered,
not excepting zoo tigers and circus bears. It
never got loose without killing something, and
had to be muzzled to keep it from chewing up its
own home. Bates’s cat was a snarling beast,
with electric hair and the eyes of a venomous
snake. His magpie was a danger to every bare-
legged child within a mile, and he had a gander
that would attack intruders with the vehemence
of a spiteful terrier, in which undertaking it was
ably seconded by a game rooster that was always
prepared to fight anything from a cockroach to a
cow. Even Bates’s horse would bite, and his wife
was the most truculent female in five townships.
The tale told was that he fell in love with her
after seeing her beat the life half out of a Chinese
cook in a hotel kitchen. He proposed to her the
same night, whereupon she beat him. “My Lord,”
he said, “what a woman for Indian hawkers!’* And
he never rested till he had married her.
* * * *
“Montalex”: If I didn’t know Randolph
Bedford personally, I should say that he was
“wrathy” when he wrote last. And, the moment
that tone turns up in a discussion, the matter had
better be quietly dropped. Dialectical victory, should it
remain with me, would be too dearly purchased by
any diminution of an old-standing friendship. But
to “S. Q. Whyffe” (B. l/6/’ll) let me say that I
didn’t “contradict Bedford about the changing habits
of the English oak in Australia.” I admitted that
the leafing-habit of the tree had altered with cli-
matic conditions, but I denied that it would in
time become an evergreen. I do not know what
“S.Q.W.” means by “different kinds.” Quercus
robur is a well-marked and homogeneous species,
and any apparent “variety” must be a distinct spe-
cies, entitled to the label of Qwercus-something-else.
As a naturalist, I often find myself much hampered
in these friendly discussions by the current confu-
sion of ideas about the distinction between Family,
Genus, Species and Variety. All these are included
in an Order, which is itself a constituent of a Class,
which in turn forms part of the fundamental divi-
sion, the Branch.
* * *
“Pestle”: About “Tramp’s” advice (B.
11/5/Tl) to apply collodion to a horse’s sore leg.
Wonder he did not recommend court plaster or
goldbeater’s skin. Another horse physician orders
lysol, eucalyptus, etc. All bunkum. What’s the
matter with red gum ? Found anywhere in the
bush. Collect it off the stem of the tree, dissolve
it in hot water (as much as the water will take
up), cool, and apply to the wound. Red gum is
the finest healer and antiseptic in the world—and I
say it after handling scores of antiseptics for my
bread-and-dripping.
“Condamine”: Up here (Moonie Scrub,
Q.) “scrub-dashing” is not a lost art, and it is
worth watching —the gallop after the escaped steer,
the throw from the tail, the strapping of the hind
legs, all in about 11 minutes. The “coachers”
(quiet cattle) are then brought up, and an attempt
made to drive the captured scrubber along with
them. Should he break away again, he is once more
captured, a bell is put on him, and he is let go.
The instant he realises the presence of the bell he
makes a Dee-line for the mob, and never willingly
leaves it while the musical instrument remains at-
tached. It is a fine sight to see a powerful horse
dashing through the scrub, winding snake-like be-
tween the trees, the rider swinging from side to side
in the saddle to avoid the apparently inevitable
bump. The well-trained horse takes his own course,
and to make any attempt to guide him is to court
disaster. The conditions here are all totally dif-
ferent from those in the comparatively open foiest
ranges of the Upper Murray and Mitta. There the
chief requirements are a sure-footed horse and un-
limited pluck. Here a capacity for quick decision,
amounting to an instinct, is the indispensable thing.
» * * *
“E.P.” : I’m beginning to think there are
some possibilities about that ancient tale of Jonah
and the great fish, after an experience I had recently.
We had just bagged a gohanna, the length of which
a surveyor swore by all his gods was five cubits,
otherwise 7ft. 6in. During the post-mortem the
coroner discovered a full-sized kangaroo-rat, without
a hair turned, and with not a bone broken. While
we gazed with wonder on this phenomenon, the
blessed rat sat up, took a few gasps, and, recovering
his wind, hopped away, and is, I believe, going yet.
I once saw a rat hop out of a tied sheaf of hay after
going through a reaper and binder, but his experi-
ence was mild compared with the kangaroo-rat’s.
* * * *
“Billea”: A Cow-country Jay Pee reached
ibe sublimest heights the ether day when, having
heard all the evidence, he puckered up his forehead,
cleared his throat, seized his pen and announced,
“Sentenced to ss. hard labor in Gaol.” In
the same cow-afflicted parts an unstipended magis-
trate had a relative who was one of the local Bungs.
When a drunk was hauled in, the Beneh always
asked the constable the name of the hotel the man
was arrested from. If the poor wretch came from an
opposition shanty, 10s. or 24 hours’ was handed over
while 23. 6d. or ss. or the rising was sufficient if
he had had the good fortune to get tangled at the
right house. Writer has known the J.P. or his Bung
relative to pay the fine, so that the drunk might get
away while he was still parched, and “do in” the
rest of his cheque.
» * * *
“North Cowst” : The half the grim story
of the Cow districts has not yet been told. Living
in this district is a dairy farmer reputedly worth
over £20,000. He works his dairy with machines
and his children. He does no work himself. The
census collector called at his home at a
quarter to 1 p.m. While the collector was
there the mother told the children to go
and get their breakfast. These children (some
of them grown up) have never been into
the neighboring towns. No riding horse or vehicle
is kept on the farm. No paper is taken in. Topsy’s
ignorance is deep learning compared with what
may be seen within cooee of a State school. The
kids spend from 10 to 12 hours every day in the cow
yards. This is not literature, but bald-headed fact.
“Matelot” : The 22ft. boa just acquired by
the Sydney Zoo from the Northern Territory, is
spoken of as the largest snake yet taken or killed
in Australia. A mistake. Ferdinand Sachs, ex-
bank-manager at Townsville, and once well known
in Sydney, shot one near Mourilyan measuring over
24ft. It was stuffed in Sydney, and Sachs after-
wards had it in his chambers in London. In the
curing process the skin shrank 18in. The Malayan
trepang fishers on the Northern Territory coast, it
is said (and there is no reason to doubt the story),
captured one of 28ift. It went to Sourabaya, and
from there to a museum or zoo in Holland. Apropos
of the ever-interesting creature that was the cause
of Eve’s giddiness, a late Kingston (Jamaica) paper
states that the deadly fer-de-lance has made its re-
appearance in Trinidad, where it has not been seen
for nearly 40 years. Martinique, St. Vincent and
Trinidad are the only islands in the West Indies
where this reptile has been found, though they are
plentiful enough on the South American mainland.
Some writers (who don’t know) confound the fer-de-
lanc-e with the small and slender coral snake of South
America and Central America, which is no larger
than our “bandy-bandy”—at least, so far as the
writer’s knowledge goes, and he has seen scores of
all three snakes, alive. The fer-de-lance is a com-
paratively big reptile—up to 4ft. and sft. Its head
is very like that of the copperhead, but broader.
A very much bigger snake of those parts is the
eamoudie, or water-snake of Demerara; it reaches
25ft., is as thick as a man’s thigh, and is highly
prized as a delicacy, not only by the Chinese resi-
dents, but by Europeans as well.
“Left Hand”: I don’t expect you to
believe this, but it is true. Two people were sitting
on an Adelaide tram. One asked the other to guess
the number of his ticket, arid, nearly burst with
astonishment when the latter said, without thinking,
27,286, or something like that, which was correct.
Then the guesser said: “Let’s take that ticket in
Tatt.’s!” But the owner of the tram ticket said,
“What’s the use!” and the matter dropped. When
Tatt.’s next result-slip came out this number had a
prize.
“Twigg”: The other day I noticed a
seemingly dead caterpillar being taken home for
dinner by six or eight little black ants, at the rate
of about 1.6 inches per 10 minutes. Arriving at
the front, door of their residence they unhitched from
the grub, and were wiping the perspiration from
their muscles when the tucker commenced to
wriggle. At this stage the Depart, for Home Affairs,
which had evidently been expecting delivery, tumbled
up from below, and, finding that the game needed
further killing, immediately commenced to finish it
off by dragging two pebbles, about - the size of
parched peas, across its equator. Now, what I want
to know is—Were those pebbles kept handy for that
particular purpose?
* * * *
“Maranoa”: Has anybody ever taken
notice how long bees will camp without luncn?
One swarm that clustered on a dry tree in my
paddock stayed 17 days without shifting.
* * * *
“Roy W.”: Rangi rushed into Jackson’s
bar late in the afternoon and demanded a bottle of
brandy—“Te missus very bad ; she get the piccan-
inny. I pay all right.” Jackson shook his head.
“You always say ‘I pay,’ and that is the end of it.”
“But I pay you true, Jackson, this time, you tc
good man. My missus komati; she die!” Jackson
hesitated. “Well, I’m d—d if I want it to be said
that I refused any sick woman, brown or white, a
drop of spirits, but it’ll be the last straw you’ll
pile on my back. When is the piccaninny ex-
pected?” Rangi made for the door and unhitched and
mounted his hack, before he replied, “Oh, I dunno,
Jackson; I only marry te missus las’ week.”
IT DIDN'T PAY NOW.
PARSON : “ What are you goin' to make of
him, Benson? ”
BENSON : “ Well, I was going to make him a
minister, but what with Sunday pictures
and things, there ain't much in that line
nowadays.”
THE COUNTRY OF BOUNDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The coach was creaking up the hill, the straining
nags were nodding ;
Bi-weekly thus, upon its route, the Long Hill mail
went plodding;
The sunburnt driver seemed oppressed; he stared
ahead and muttered ;
Behind, unto a suff’ring friend, a damphool brayed
and stuttered.
“Bai Jove!”—amid the tall, hot gums the frightful
oath went pealing—
“ The boundahs in this country hyah don’t go in for
straight dealing !
That Land Tax now ! Bai Jove, you know, a chap
with money fioundahs!
One never knows what one’s about with these dashed
Labah boundahs!”
He brayed of “boundahs” all the way, no spur or
answer needing.
The driver waited till he saw a mob of grey ’roos
feeding;
With one wild whoop he sent them off in mighty
leaps astounding,
Then drawled, “Hey, Boss! them blankers there is
native ‘boundahs’ bounding!”
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


THE CORONATION OF THE OTHER GEORGE.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
All Are United
In saying that for all Stomach Troubles there
remedy like Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
is no
Price,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Anglican Bishop Mercer has consented to
be the chairman of Tasmania’s first Wages
Board. It will deal with the boot-trade.
A three-line par. in a London paper men-
tions the death of Lady Harberton. Fifteen
years ago the event would have been starred.
Deceased was the pioneer of bloomers. In
the ’9o’s, when she was blazing the lonely
track of trOusers-for-women, she was the ter-
ror of every genteel pub within biking dis-
tance of London. Her arrival in “rational
costume,” on a bike, caused the Rabble to
gather and jeer, what time the Upper Classes
fled, blushing hotly, through the yard. Var-
ious hotelkeepers refused to serve her,
whereupon she prosecuted them. Woman-
kind, after scrutinising her blue serge pants
and woollen hose, declared enthusiastically
for its old uniform; so Lady Harberton will
go down to posterity with the multitude of
reformers who bit off more than they could
chew.
W. J. Denny, S. Australia’s Attorney-
General, was originally weather clerk in Ade-
laide G.P.O. Then Jim Anderson, recently
K.C.’d, offered him his articles, and Denny
made a rapid climb. Recent shrewd mining
and other investments, together with a big
practice, are believed to have made him one
of the wealthier men of the Labor- party.
One of the most ancient of Lachlanders,
James Mulhall, died the other day at Burra-
wang (N.S.W.). It was Mulhall who dis-
covered the remains of the victim done to
death in the Black Ranges by the notorious
Butler. The old man, who had put 77 years
behind him, had been in the Lachlan country
since the earliest bushranging ’so’s.
NO PLACE FOR THE SOLES OF
HIS FEET.
The Right Thinking section of the community
has dreadful visions of things like this , should
Sydney Government House and grounds be
"stolen ” for the people.
Editor Nicholls, of Hobart Mercury,
whom the High Court didn’t send to gaol the
other day for contempt in connection with
the Higgins comments, was 82 last birthday.
The ancient, by the way, evidently -forgot
that the Fisher Government didn’t appoint
Higgins. As a matter of fact, the leader of
the present Opposition gave him his lift.
Still a little thing like that doesn’t matter
when you are throwing a stick at a Demo-
cratic dog.
Thomas Talbot Wilton, who crossed over
a few days back, was for years head of the
Western (N.S.W.) Coal Combine. In his
younger days he was connected with the
Bathurst Times, and handled a scarifying
pen. He fell foul once of Edmund Webb,
M.L.A., and subsequently M.L.G., the rich
grocer of Bathurst. Webb had him gaoled,
but after a week or so relented, and sent his
carriage to the gates to fetch the vitriolic
scribbler away.
A Colonel Garibaldi lately distinguished
aimself as an officer in the insurgent Mexi-
can “army.” This Garibaldi is an Australian,
born at Brighton (Vic.), what time his
father, Ricciotti, son of the red-shirted
Italian, was a truant officer of the ATc. Edu-
cation Department. Ricciotti was also for a
time a clerk in the Melbourne Treasury. His
son, the Mexican Colonel, is a fire-eater like
grandpa, and, before going to Mexico, had
fought in Greece, S’Africa and Venezuela.
Passionate cry or howl of a money-lender
in S. M. Herald :
Why should this State be subjected to the in-
dignity of having practically to say that we can-
not house his Majesty’s chief representative in the
Commonwealth in our city? It would apnear that
there is an insidious attempt behind this sugges-
tion to rob us of this delightful spot.
Now, is it the threatened withdrawal of the
affluent G.-G. or of his mostly-impecunious
staff which occasions this lashing of fins in
the money-lending aquarium?
THE LIMIT OF ENDURANCE.
THE MEENISTER : “ Mr. Macpherson , I have
to complain about your want of reespect
in no’ closing your estableeshment on the
day of your wife’s funeral."
THE MACPHERSON : "Mon , ye dinna tinder-
stand the seetuation. To lose ma takings
and via dear wife on the same day would
be a trial greater than I could bear.”
From a Roman journal:—
His Excellency the Prime Minister of Australia
(Mr. Fisher) arrives to-night in Rome with his suite,
which is composed of 17 people, en route for the
Coronation of King George of England. Apartments
have been engaged for his Excellency at the Hotel
Regina, Rome.
Seventeen people! The accuracy of this for-
eign intelligence!
Dan O’Connor, as the world knows, was
erstwhile N.S.W. Postmaster-General —the
Ministerial office generally given to the fool
of the family. He was, in Wordsworth’s
phrase, “a noticeable man with large grey
eyes.” One day he tendered the barmaid
half a sovereign, and forgot his change. Re-
turning from the doorway, however, he asked
Hebe for the money. She sighed, and, as
she slowly opened the till, gazed into the
translucent orbs of the illoquint Tribune and
said: “Pardon me, Mr.
darling, I
mean —but when you look
at me with those heavenly
eyes, how can I possibly
have a thought of sordid
things V” She kept that
change, of course. There
is a poetic and probably un-
true explanation of how
Dan became possessed of
those eyes. When in prac-
tice as a butcher in Wool-
loomooloo he was in the
habit of killing calves in his
backyard, and as the stuck
calf slowly passed away, it would fix its
long-lashed eyes in a reproachful, glassy
stare upon its assassin. Dan endured and
returned the stares of so many dying calves
that his eyes grew to he just like his vic-
tims’ —and his love, added his enemies, just
like calf’s love.
Patrick McCarthy, the Laborite who op-
posed Donald Mackinnon, rail-sitting M.L.A.
for Prahran (Vic.), at the last State elec-
tions, died on the lltli inst., at Warragul,
from a smashing-up received a few days
previously in a football match at Moe.
Though only 25, McCarthy had twice stood
for Parliament, once for St. Ivilda and once
for Prahran. At the P’ran poll the shabby-
genteelers rolled up and voted against him
to a man, chiefly for the reason that at the
time of his candidature he Was employed as
a milk-carter. It is a dreadful thing to earn
an honest living.
Ex-Justice Hartley Williams is back in
Victoria. He has lately been in Eastern
Asia, and tells Australia not to be fool
enough to believe the yarns that Japan
doesn’t mean serious business. By the way,
Williams’s son is now CJ. Madden’s asso-
ciate- —which shows how well the hatchet has
been buried. The idea with Sliiels no
doubt was that Williams was too Demo-
cratic for the lift that he wanted, and that
the showier Madden got. Williams was bit-
terly chagrined, and took his pension as soon
as he could. His father was also Judge
Williams, one of Melbourne’s earliest barris-
ters, along with Stawell, Barry, Pohlman
and Croke.
A tale of the Long Arm: —
Years ago, when a mail-line ran from Australia
to Europe via Panama, the steamers touched at
Pitcairn Island to coal. On one occasion, after
the vessel had been loading for some hours, and her
decks were much begrimed, a nattily-appointed
whaleboat came off to land those passengers who ,
wished to see the island. Among these was a tall,
sparely-built gentleman with classically-chiselled,
features and of commanding mien, who, when asked
with the rest of the visitors not to step on to
the whaler’s speCkless white seats while wearing
boots blackened with coal-dust, did (perhaps ab-
sent-mindedly) exactly the opposite of what was
requested. Anyhow, the captain of the boat told
him that he was “no gentleman,” and said he would
mueh like to meet him man-to-man on shore. The
visitors landed and strolled about the historic island,
and when they returned to re-embarlc they found a
crowd assembled on the beach, forming a ring in
which two strong and skilful boxers, stripped to the
waist, were engaged in fierce fight. These men
were the whaleboat’s captain—a splendidly set-up.
thick-set fellow of
the seaman type—
and liis recalcitrant
military - looking
passenger. The lat-
ter, though he made
a valorous resist-
ance, was fairly van-
quished after bat-
tling with his heav-
ier opponent for an
hour and a-half. The
vanquished then
found that the vie-
to r was Fletcher
Christian, grandson
of the chief of the
Bounty mutineers,
and the victor found
that the vanquished
was no less than
Lieutenant Bli g h,
grandson of the
Bounty’s brave but
tyrannical comman-
der. Lieut. Bligh
still lives at Parra-
matta (he is often
seen in Manly) at a
venerable age ; at 80
he stands erect, and
is in appearance and
deportment as commanding and resolute' as when he
refought the old battle in the third generation.
Dr. Pomare, chief native health officer to
the M.L. Dovernmeait, after 10 years’ useful
work, has received notice that his depart-
ment is to be reconstructed out of existence.
So Dr. Pomare, revives an old intention of
becoming an M.P. for a Maori constituency,
and has let Pfenare Kaihau, the sitting mem-
ber for the Western District, understand (hat
there will be trouble in his vicinity next
election.
One of the three N.S.W. detectives who
helped to look after George V. when he was
touring Australia as the Duke of York was
Roeliaix, just retiring. And one of the
things that struck Rochaix concerning
George was his worried look when, with the
Duchess May, he went walking or riding in
the carriage. “No, no,” says the French-
man ; “I have no theory—only I think when
the Duke do not keep in step when they
walk he meet trouble half-way. I used to
say to myself: ‘Roc-haix, I would rather be
a policeman than a Prince so sad-looking.’ ”
Henry William Northcroft, another vet-
eran of the Maori wars, was decorated a
few days ago at Auckland with the M.L.
Cross by Governor Islington. For 10 years
Northcroft gave black brother a taste of
what Sheol is likely to be, and on three occa-
sions showed conspicuous bravery carrying
wounded comrades to safety. When peace
was finally declared, and the only danger to
the country was the pawnshop man, North-
croft took up the law and parcelled it
out from the magisterial bench in the Wai-
kato, Thames and Auckland.
Colonel Thomas Porter, of Gisborne
(M.L.), who was handed an Auxiliary
Forces’ “decoration” the other day, is an old
trader in gore. He started his apprentice-
ship with a midshipman’s knife over 50
years ago on the China Station, and early
showed a fine aptitude for carving pirates.
Subsequently he joined the 70th regiment in
Maoriland, serving with it for three years.
Then he became a cavalryman, and pursued
the Maori with deliberate intent. For 20
years he was more or less engaged in this
meat business, and received £lOOO reward
for the capture of that black hyena, Kereopa
Kaiwhatu, whose murder of the missionary
Volkner in 1865 is still a shuddersome mem-
ory. For a while, Porter was native land
purchaser, but when the Boer war was in
progress he sharpened up his old implements
and went after more meat at the head of a
M.L. contingent. For that he was handed a
C.B.—which may or may not have been a
delicate way of suggesting that the trouble
was all over Cohenstein's Cash Balance.
SENATOR ARTHUR RAE (N.S. W.).
“There seems to be a disposition here tv-
make something of a lion of Mr. Blank,”
says a London correspondent re a more or
less distinguished Australian Coronator: —
The process is a sorry one —
We’ve often seen it worked before.
We’yfe heard our poor Australian son
Put up his imitation roar;
They lionise him, but, alas,
Too oft they send him back an ass!
N.S.W. Premier McGowen is represented
in England as an Englishman. As a mat-
ter of fact, he was born at sea; but as
the incident happened aboard a vessel sail-
ing from the port of London, his arrival
was registered as if he had been born in
Stepney. This gives an extra Englishman
to the list of N.S.W. Premiers. The com-
plete tally now stands: Englishmen, 7
(Donaldson, Parker, Cowper, Robertson,
Parke's, See and McGowen) ; N.S.W., 4
(Farnell, Dibbs, Carruthers and Wade) ;
Ireland, 3 (Martin, Jennings and Wad-
dell) ; Scotland, 2 (Stuart and Reid).
Concerning Australia’s politest criminal-
catcher :
N.S.W. detective Rochaix has retired after 29
years’ service. Practically ever since he was born in
London, in 1851, the light-hearted Frenchman has
made adventure his daily meal and excitement its
sauce. He was in Paris when the Franco-German
war broke out, and saw the soldiers leaving “for Ber-
lin” ; enlisted, and to-day carries a medal for ser-
vices rendered to France in ’7l ; was back in Paris
when the Commune was starting to get in its fine
work, with all the ruffians of Europe putting a shoul-
der to the wheel; escaped from Paris ; went to Lon-
don and worked for three years in a lace factory;
sailed for Brisbane to gain health ; winked on a sugar
experimental station for Police Magistrate Day (so
Rochaix started with one Day in Australia and
finished with another) ; moved on by easy stages all
over Queensland ; sailed for the South Seas, and was
one of the crew of a “recruiting” vessel; returned
to Queensland and made up to the Gulf of Carpen-
taria ; then down to Sydney and worked with a
pick and shovel. It was while engaged at that harm-
less pursuit that the French Consul recommended
Rochaix to Superintendent Fosbery for the dangerous
post of tracker-down of escapees from New Cale-
donia, who were both numerous and wickedly busy
in Sydney at the time. From then until last week
Rochaix has sent dozens and dozens of escaped birds
back to New Caledonia, and in Sydney has had a hand
in other fine work calling for patience and brains —
mostly in connection with foreign criminals. It is
not his intention to spend the rest of his life at
Noumea. “Australia,” he says, “will be what you
call the good enough for me.”
A VISION OF KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETION.]
Blare of trumpets and drums that beat —
To the right and left they swings—
And the years bend low at the mercy-seat
Of a crowned and sceptred king.
Tall years that hearken to do his will,
Proud years that shall tread him down ;
His name with theirs shall the pageant fill,
Till another shall wear his crown.
Another, another! The quick feet fly.
It is part of the measure they tread —
The kings that fall, and the years that die —
A dance of the crowned and dead.
A pageant of kings ’mid the files of time,
Tall kings that were bearded and strange,
Moving with measured steps that rhyme
To the heedless words of, change.
Conqueror, warrior, statesman, clown,
They march in their purple show,
Till the breaking sceptre and falling crown,
Are lost where the dead years go.
I saw them pass in their long array
By the mountain pillars of night,
Where my eyes in the midst of worlds at play
Were smitten with wonder-sight.
80, the first William! ’Tis Scnlac’s pride
That thrills where the harpers tell
Of the fougliten field where the Saxon died
And the dauntless Godwin fell.
Conqueror, plumed with the spoils of might
That the Doomsday records keep,
A flutter of years, and then the night—
Red havoc, and long, long sleep.
Deep in the covert the king’s deer hides —
Twang on the hard-strung bow—
Blow on the horn where the hunter rides;
But how should a dead king blow?
Book and sceptre 1 The scholar rules,
Heart-pierced with a father’s griefo—
Oh, shadows that war on kings and fools,
Throw dusk on the falling leaf!
Crown and sceptre, and sword and lance,
And fields with the red dew wet,
Where over the pages of large romance
Is the name Plantagenet!
lion hearts of the lost crusades,
And the roses red and white —
Henry or Edward —the long light fades
At the gauntlet challenge of night;
While a lordlier trumpet brays the fame
On the flying years’ short breath
Of the portly Harry, or shrills the name
Of the crowned Elizabeth.
Till the slight and courtly Stuart comes
To carry a sceptre thin,
As the fated years with their throbbing drums
Welcome the new years in.
And still to the silver fiddle of God
The feet of the dancers flew,
In the measure the kings and swift years trod
On the bridge of the old and new.
I saw them pass in their long array
With their lords of the Parliament,
’Mid the wonder-light of the worlds at play,
By the way that the old kings went.
Ah, was it a dance of the years I saw
Or the leaves from the forest shorn,
Where the gusts of the growing winter draw
The weird grotesques of morn ?
Long live the king! And who lingers long
In place, or in faith or fame?
Will the young years pause to sing one song
O’er the grave of the last king’s name?
Pomp of purple on robes of night—
One king shall have rule o’er all,
When the lhaves that yesteryear were bright
Are sere at the cold wind’s call.
Long live the king! And the thunders pass—-
Airs charged with an empty breath —
While the silent shadows lift the glass
To toast the one king—Death !
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


mm
■ V
■a*'
.
tm
m
r
WWW
pji
V .
iil
"-V
iWf-;
S
fH
>• V :.’i
|g
* ■ ’* &
,
: in
sa?
. •■
s 1 % i
y-. _
' 0 i
a
O'
.
I
K
Si
>
■ -
■
***»■
855 As
adMB
HH
sBs6t«?S
**<
T
•■ ■
m
:m&w-
.
m
-
VS
i
0
:
%
i
• M vfTjv
rtf'
• ■ •” ■' . ... ....
■ ! z %'
"‘.a 1 .'.*'■ - vij
- '*' “
RE


WORTHINGTON
PUMPS
For
General Service.
Boiler Feeding, Mining, Marine, Irrigation, Hydraulic, Water Works, etc.
*
For CATALOGUES and
INFORMATION apply
32 8 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [i
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Bank of Tasmania (Launces-
ton, Tas.): —
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Protits. Dividend Tax Off. serves, serves.
Nov., 3903.. £4609 5 p.c. = £3991 £7OB £31,761
May, 1904.. 6247 6., „ 4789 458 32,219
Nov., 1904.. 5438 6,, ~ 4789 649 32,868
May, 1905.. 5291 6 ~ ~ 4789 502 33,370
Nov., 1905.. 5752 6 „ ~ 4789 963 34,333
May, J 906. . 5696 6 ~ ~ 4789 £lOOO 34,240
Nov., 1906.. 6249 6 ~ ~ 4789 1460 35,700
May, 1907.. 9077 7 ~ ~ 5587 3490 39,190
Nov., 1907.. 8570 7 ~ ~ 5587 1000 1983 41,173
May, 1908.. 8793 7 ~ ~ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
Nov., 1908.. 8464 7 ~ ~ 5587 2877 46,256
May, 1909.. 8288 7 ~ ~ 5587 2701 48,957
Nov., 1909.. 7647 7 ~ ~ 5654 1993 50,950
May, 1910.. 8115 7 ~ „ 5654 2461 53,411
Nov., 1910.. 8058 7 ~ ~ 5654 2404 55,815
May, 1911.. 8127 7 ~ „ 5587 2540 58,355
This little bank has put itself in a better position
than it was 12 or even six months ago. its coin
and other liquid assets were then too small in pro-
portion to its liabilities. The comparison which fol-
lows shows, among other things, that liquid assets
have been substantially increased, partly by reason
of increased deposits, partly by reason of reduced
advances: —
May, TO. May, ’ll.
Notes in circulation.. £64.601 £07,139 Inc. £2,478
Bills, etc 14,247 12,477 Dec. 1,770
D'po-its at interest.. 267,065 268,024 Inc. 959
Depo-its, free.. .. 294,262 321,206 Inc. 26,944
Liquid assets .. .. 201,891 246,035 Inc. 44,144
Advances .. .. 621,921 611,313 Dec. 10,608
Premises, etc.:. .. 27,528 27,479 Dec. 49
fhe total debt to the public is now £668,846; and
of that amount 36 p.c. is represented by liquid
assets—which in this case means coin, bullion and
'■ash balances. That is a quite satisfactory propor-
tion. A high proportion of such assets puts a bank
in a position to meet any sudden demand, caused by
an unexpected scare. The sudden demand is, how-
ever, not the only sort of demand. There may, for
instance, be a steady shrinkage in the value of securi-
ties; and then other things have to be considered.
From the creditors’ point of view the important
thing, in that case, is to consider how much the
shareholders’ funds amount to in proportion to the
deposits and other borrowed money. Obviously a
bank which has borrowed £lO from the public for every
£1 of its own has much more to fear from a slump
than one which has borrowed only £3, assuming, of
course, that both have borrowed, not for the fun of
the thing, but to lend the money out again. Measured
by that foot-rule, this National of Tasmania is in a.
particularly strong position, because its borrowings
amount to only £3 3s. for every £1 of its own.
Scarcely another bank in Australasia owes so little
Of course that isn’t all gain. If a bank hasn’t the
nsk of losses, it can’t have the prospects of profits
either; and it is really surprising that the profits
in this case are as large as they are. Calculated on
the basis of capital and reserves combined, they pan
out as follows:
Nov., 1906.. £6 14 2 p.c. I May, 1909.. £8 7 2 p.c.
May, 1907.. 913 5,, Nov., 1909 712 2
Nov., 1907.. 819 3 ~ | May, 1910. , 7 1,9 11 ’’
May, 1908.. 9 2 0,, I Nov., 1910.. 716 JO
Nov., 1905.. 813 3 „ | May, 1911.. 716 4 ”
Under ordinary circumstances that should mean that
the bank hasn’t got any or many dead or unpro-
ductive accounts on its books; and that adds to the
respect with which this paper regards the co. Only this
paper hopes that the present div. won’t be put up
another fraction until the reserves are at least
doubled. The amount put by in these prosperous
limes isn’t what it ought to be.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited, the
wool people, of Sydney and many other places :
Interest paid on Written Re-
Mar., Earnings. Debenture Stocks, etc. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1900 65,338 A stock 4 p.c. = 59,565 5,773 Nil
Added to
(Net) r a stock 4tv p i Reserves.
1901 69,810 66,351 3,459 3,459
1902 83,897 All stock 4 p.c. „ 82,398 1,499 4,958
1903 79,136 All stock 4 p.c. ~ 78,771 365 5,323
1904 84,723 All stock 4 p.c. ~ 78,089 6,634 11,957
1905 95,459 All slock 4 p.c. ~ 78,023 17,436 29,393
( A stock 4 p.c. ~ ) o- -1 no 4
1906 181,817 -f B stock 5 p.c. „ / B ‘ ,luz ) 68,765 98,158
(,5 p.c. div. ~ 27,950 J
I A stock 4 p.c. ~ 46,5971
1907 220,675 -[ B stock 5 p.c. ~ 36,355 !- 81,493 179,651
(10 p.c. div. ~ 55,900 I
f A stock 4p c. ~ 43,2861
1908 160,147 - B stock 5 p.c. ~ 36,079 } 24,882 204,533
(10 p.c. div. ~ 55,900
f A stock 4 p.c. ~ 42,7241
1909 162,390 ( B stock 5 p.c. „ 35,716 - 12,079 216,612
(12 6-7 p.c. div. ~ 71,871 J
f A stock 4 p.c. ~ 42,1221
1910 241,916 B stock 5 p.c. ~ 34,718 )- 31,227 297,839
115 p.c. div. ~ 83,849)
Transferred to Capital, £79,856 .. 217,983
f f A stock 4 p.c, = 40,9621
, QI ,J 345,929 -[ B stock 5 p.c. ~ 32,312 7144,885 362,868
I 120 p.c. div. ~ 127,770 ;
( Transferred to Capital, £63,886 .. 298,983
I’hew! That will make some people feel pretty sore.
As a matter of fact, there was a deal of very peculiar
juggling over the reconstructions of this co. in the
gaunt years after drought had dried the coat off the
far-out squatter’s back, and the rabbits had generally
chewed his trousers right up to the limit of respecta-
bility. There were heavy debentures in those days;
but instead of the shareholders parting up to the full,
the “B” debentures suffered to the extent of 40 p.c.
Now, seeing that the debenture-holders don’t get any
of that 40 p.c. restored, while the shareholders are
getting some of their written-off capital put back
into their pocket, there is hound to be more bad
language. Some old shareholders, who are share-
holders no longer, will also be liable to pass remarks
which might displease Mr. Judkins. That is because
they were asked to load themselves with a heavy lia-
bility, which was subsequently reduced—after the
aforementioned shareholders had declined to take on
the liability, and had allowed their holdings to be
forfeited. However, all that is pretty ancient
history now; nevertheless, one is bound to" feel sorry
for these people; and so far as debenture-holders, at
any rate, are concerned, it ought to be a lesson to
them never to consent to a reduction of capital debt
unless it is expressly provided that the reduction
shall be made good contemporaneously with any
restoration of written-off share capital. The directors
of Goldsbrough-Mort’s, though they had no power to
restore the 40 p.c. of debenture debt, did one decent
thing. Under the last arrangement, the “B” deben-
tures were entitled to 4 p.c. so long as the share-
holders only got 3 p.c. ; if the latter got more than
3 p.c., the “B’s” were to get 5 p.c. The directors
• —the co. agreeing—-decided to risk it, and make the
5 p.c. a permanent thing.
The share capital is now £638,852; so the net
profit for the year amounted to 43 p.e. after paying
the debenture interest. This profit is shown after
making various deductions—£3B77 as bonus to staff,
£2839 for depreciation of plant and premises, and
£lO,OOO off premises account. The debenture debt
is now—“A” stock, £1,015,060; “B” stock,
£677,286. All other liabilities total only £85,464.
Capital, reserves and liabilities (including contin-
gent liabilities, £13,532) amounted on March 31 to
£2,898,889. These total figures are very much the
same as those of 10 years ago. The items have, how-
ever, suffered considerable change:—
1901. 1911.
Capital £55"',995 £638,852
Reserves Nil 468,695
Debentures 2,167,660 1,692,346
Other liabilities (including con-
tingent liabilities) .. .. 110,028 98,996
Liquid assets 62,521 549,(70
Advances and properties (includ-
ing live stock). 2,338.285 1,974.290
Premises, etc 435,877 375,527
The increase of capital is explained in the first table.
(The figures in the last comparison are, by the way,
as at March 31, before the appropriations have been
made. That explains why the reserves show up
higher than in the first table.) The comparison in-
dicates a much-improved position. And probably the
improvement is greater than the figures even re-
motely suggest. It is very significant that, on ap-
proximately the same balance-sheet totals, the profits
have increased fivefold in the 10 years. These ac-
counts are really only the aggregate of a large
number of station and other accounts; and it has
scarcely been possible to look at some station ac-
counts lately with the naked eye, they are so daz-
zling. The usual thing in pastoral book-keeping is
to take the stock in at one fixed price, which doesn’t
alter from year to year. Increases or decreases in
number must, of course, be taken into account; and
the proceeds of sales made in excess of the book
value —usually a pretty low value—are profit. That
partly explains how very big profits have been made
m the last few years. Prices for stock have been
very high; lambings and other increases have been
very good; and, instead of losirig stock by drought,
they have been got to the market, usually as fats,
and the surplus in excess of book values has been
shown as profit. No doubt also this co. has made
sales of properties; and the surpluses realised over
the written-down values have also been profit. But,
since they can’t sell the same properties again, the
profit from this source can only be pocketed once a
thing well worth remembering.
The visible position has improved; but the pub-
lished accounts only show us the surface of things
As mentioned just now, those accounts are the
aggregate of many station and other accounts; and
we don t know how those separate accounts are being
handled whether a policy of conservative writing-
down is being followed, for instance, or whether
every possible penny is being crowded into the co.’s
balance-sheet. If, however, the management is not
seizing the opportunity to make itself very safe The
Bulletin hopes that all the directors will have in-
somnia for a month. They know from experience
what an erratic business they are in; they know
what a mess was made of things before; they know
how creditors who never should have suffered were
made to suffer. Failure to provide for the inevitable
losses of the future would therefore be disgraceful
* * * *
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
the United States ;
Income (less Added
A n ]°" nts Total Out- to
Written Off). Claims. Expenses, goings. Funds
£ £ £ £ £
1899. .11,742,265 5,106,596 2,173,613 7,280.209 4 462.1 Vi
1900. .12,639.530 5,403,717 2,145,201 7,548,918 5 090 6>\
1901.. 13,697,221 5,800,186 2,324,663 8,124.849 5,482 372
1902. .14,438,370 6,054,346 2,609.330 8.663,676 5A74’694
1903:. 14,656,981 7.125,791 2,975,574 10,101,365 4.555',616
1904.. 17,302,203 7,583,435 3,052,345 10,635,780 6,666,423
1905.. 12,356,380 8,667,720 2,834,610 11,502,330 854 050
1906. .14,091,717 9,178,971 2,065,068 11,244,039 2,847’e78
Taken
from
. _ Funds.
1901.. 10.806.224.9,284,554 2,053,070 11,337,624 531,400
Added.
1908. .19,012,374 9,961,825 2.132,186 12,094.011 6,918,363
1999. .15,934,185 10,631,434 2,213,395 12,844,829 3,089,356
1910. .14,093,055 10,935,026 2,176,400 13,111,426 981,629
The income (less amounts written off) jumps about
m a mysterious way, according to that table. The
spring which , causes this jumpiness is the American
law providing for the annual valuation of securities.
Under this law the assets have to go in the accounts
a t their present value; and as this value may vary
to the extent of millions, the “income” may either
spring or slump by millions. Another and better
view of the situation is given in the next table:—
Income from Increase in Total or Net
Business. Valuations. Gain in Funds.
1904 ... £16,315,710 £986,487 £17,302,203
Decrease.
1905 .. 15,817,699 3,461,319 12,356,380
1906 .. 15,489,968 1,398,251 14,091,717
1907 .. 15,137,762 4,331,538 10,806’,224
Increase.
1908 .. 15,059,299 3,953,075 19,012,374
1909 .. 15,258,469 675,716 15,934,185
Decrease.
1910 .. 15,499,696 1,406,641 14,093,055
llie Equitable is one of the three great American
life offices which extended their business to Aus-
tralia, and proceeded to do things on the same lavish
scale as at home. The struggle was for big figures ;
how they were secured didn’t matter so much.
Ihings might have continued to go along in the bad
old hysterical way had not some of the directors and
managers put their finger into the political pie.
lhere was a howl—a very proper howl —at once;
funds which ought to be accumulated for the policy-
holders were going into the campaign funds of one
party. The other party began to tell what it knew ;
and no doubt the worst things were told about this
co. A legislative and domestic cleaning up fol-
lowed. The offices were held down while their wings
were clipped; they were forbidden to again attempt
to fly after such big figures. Expenses being re-
stricted, the struggle for new business stopped in the
places where it was most expensive. Australia was
one of those places. So the whole Australian estab-
lishment was disbanded, and David Fell and 00. were
appointed agents and attorneys. Fortunately that
9 111 J of accountants and auditors had a good name,
and their word carried weight with the Australian
policy-holder, who must have been sorefy tempted
to take whatever he could get and move out. At
that time this co. held about £3,200,000 of Aus-
tralian insurance.
As the second little table shows, the Equitable is
now rather more than holding its own in the matter
of income from business ; so the wholesale and usually
foolish lapsing of policies has been stopped. Pre-
miums from new business now once more exceed the
premiums from policies which have lapsed or be-
come claims. This shows the movement of total
premium income (including consideration for an-
nuities, though very little of that business is done) :
1904 £12,931,442
1905 12,386,891
1906 11,646,293
1907' 11,106,346
1908 .. .. 10,774,907
1909 .. 10,825,399
1910 .. 10,925,549
Thus the tide, after running out strongly, is coming
in again; and confidence seems to be gradually re-
covering. In 1907 surrenders accounted for no less
than 55 p.e. of the total claims; for last year they
were less than 26 p.e. That’s really one of the best
features of the accounts.
The expense rate has been got down to something
reasonable. Last year the outlay, equalled £l4 os. fid-.
p.c. of the total income from premiums and interest.
This isn’t a low rate by any means, and it compares
very poorly with the best Australian results; but it
is far better than the experience was in the days of
the boom. The saving, of course, means better bonuses.
(The bonuses last year amounted to £2,171,711,
plus a trifle on account of cash bonus deposits.) The
rate of interest is satisfactory; but the rate of in-
terest is really not so important in connection with
a life office as the quality of the securities. On this
point, at any rate, the American law does more for
the protection of the policy-holder than the Austra-
lian laws do. As usual with American offices, bonds
(mainly railway) and stock represent more than half
the assets (say, 53 p.c.); mortgages represent 20
p.c. ; loans on policies 13 p.c. In view of the ab-
surdly large sums spent by the Equitable on premises
in Australia, it is satisfactory to observe that the
total represented by “house property” and “landed
property” is under 6 p.c. of the total assets.
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (Sydney)
Net Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1901.. £3Ol 6 p.c. =£4s £250 £256
1902.. 1,528 6 ~ „ 104 £1,262 162 418
1903 .. 2,957 6 ~ ~ 253 2,583 121 539
1904 .. 2,778 6 ~ ~ 320 2,147 311 850
1905 .. 4,958 6 ~ „ 368 4,188 402 1252
1906.. 4,206 6 ~ ~ 432 4,126 900
1907 .. 4.352 6 „ ~ 479 3,873 900
1908.. 8,010 6 „ „ 535 7,285 190 1090
1909 .. 9,924 6 „ ~ 704 9.186 34 1124
1910.. 10,144 6 ~ ~ 865 10,403
1911 .. 9,221 6 ~ ~ 946 8,244 31 31
This is one of the two big co-operative distributing-
butter and produce cos. in N.S.W. ; it sticks ex-
clusively to distributing, while the other one does a
bit of manufacturing on its own account. It seems
to have two main objects—-to get as close to the
actual consumer as possible without going into the
retail business, and (which is partly the same ob-
ject) to promote direct exporting, instead of letting
the speculator have his cut. From July 1, 1910,
to May 31, 1911, the total exports from N. S. Wales
were 14,279 tons, of which this co. shipped 3039
tons, and the North Coast Co. 2156 tons. The latter
co. does its own exporting, though the Coastal
Farmers is its distributing agent in N. S. Wales.
The total profits from all sources, in spite of a bigger
turnover, were not as large last year as in the pre-
ceding two years. Lower average prices—which
mean, of course, smaller commissions—were partly
responsible. The average selling price for 12 months
to March, 1909, was 113 s. per cwt. in Sydney; 1910,
107 s. 2d. ; 1911, 102 s. 3d. That looks as though
increased supplies were pulling prices down; as a
matter oC fact, though, the 1909 prices were un-
usually high. The co. did unwisely last year
to distribute all its profits in bonuses and
dividends; but the co-operative idea isn’t yet
as firmly planted as it ought to be, and
the struggle for business is no doubt keen.
Hence the co. has been enticed to pay back
to suppliers some of the money which it ought to
have put by against contingencies. The paid capital
is practically all of this is in the business
—only £2747 is sunk in plant, fittings, etc. In
other words, all but that small amount is available
tor the protection of suppliers; and a guarantee
fund of that size is a handy thing- for the supplier to
see about the premises of the people to whom he en-
trusts his produce on perhaps a month’s credit.
* * * *
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan and
Deposit Go. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1903.. £949 8 p.c. =£slo £433 £2574
Apl., 1904 .. 820 8., „ 516 304 ‘>S7S
Oct., 1904 .. 740 8,, „ 516 224 3102
Apl., 1905 .. 856 8 „ „ 516 340 3442
Oct., 1905 .. 863 8,, ~ 516 347 3739
Apl., 1906 .. 986 8 „ ~ 516 470 4259
Oct,., 1906 .. 950 8,, ~ 516 434 4693
Apl., 1907.. 1014 10 „ „ 645 369 5062
Oct., 1907.. 655 10 „ „ 646 9 5071
Apl., 1968.. 664 10 „ „ 646 18 5089
Oct., 1908 .. 757 10 „ ~ 646 111 6200
Apl., 1909.. 696 10 „ ~ 646 50 5250
Los-:.
Oct., 1909 .. 276 8,, „ 516 4458
Profit.
Apl., 1910 .. 617 8 ~ „ 516 131 4589
Oct., 1910 .. 614 8 ~ ~ 516 98 4687
Apl., 1911 .. 1003 10 „ „ ,648 357 5044
The co. has got back to the 10 p.c. which it had reached
when it discovered a “deficiency” of £lO2B at one of
the branches, and deemed it prudent to sit for a
while in the sackcloth and ashes of a mere 8 p.c..
Previous to that there had been a much worse “de-
ficiency’; on that occasion more than half the capi-
• * le wr itten off. The present paid capital
Ij. 1 j. 1 n 1 ! and liabilities (chiefly deposits) total
£10,039. Approximately the total of these amounts
is in advances and stock, leaving- the reserves repre-
sented by properties, furniture, etc. There appears
also to be a small goodwill item, probably about
£750, representing the purchase price of branch
businesses not written off. A great deal depends on
the valuation of the advances and stock; and of
course, there is no way of. checking that.
* * * *
The Co-operative Credit Bank op Victoria
(Melbourne); —
Carried to De-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
Aug., 1906 .. £4 Nil £4 £5
Feb., 1907 .. 11 6 p.c. =£B 3 2
Reserves.
Aug., 1907 .. { 42 4 - 17
\ t orfeited capital 5 22
Feb., 1908 .. 47 ~ /’Vy = 44 , 3 25
/ forfeited capital 8 33
Aug., 1908 .. [ 52 _ f s .p.c = 47 6 »8
I forfeited capital 12 50
Feb., 1909 .. { 41 „ 4 .PC-= 44 - 47
( Porfeited capital 12 59
Aug., 1909 .. { 57 „ 4 .P-®- = 45 , 12 71
1 forfeited capital 2 73
Feb., 1910 .. 56 4 p.c. =46 10 83
Aug., 1910 .. 72 5 ~ ~ 60 12 95
Feb., 1911 .. 72 4 ~ ~ 50 22 117
The main object of this little concern is to finance
people who want to deal with the Melbourne Civil
Service Co-op. Stores, and haven’t got the cash ; but
it gives a little “assistance” otherwise. Its capital
is £2370, and it could obviously do with a little
more; its advances total £2906, which means that
it is suffering from a small overdraft itself.
“ * * *
The general use of artificial fertilisers has
led to the establishment of a big new industry in
Australia. Superphosphates are mostly in demand;
and when they began to be used, the supply came
from foreign parts. A large proportion of the trade,
m N.S.W. especially, was done, by A. H. Hasell, who
lately came to the sensible conclusion that the time
had arrived when the import trade should be stopped
and Australia should furnish its own requirements
He has,'' therefore, projected a co. to establish a fac-
tory. To a great extent the scheme is on a co-opera-
tive basis, large numbers of farmers having come
into it. The co.—the Farmers’ Fertilisers Corpora-
tion. Ltd.—makes a first issue of 71,000 shares to
the public—46,ooo ordinary and 25,000 6 p.c. cumu-
lative pref. Another 24,000 are reserved for direct
consumers; and 5000 go to the vendor (A. H.
Hasell) for his business connection, trade marks, etc.-
(Most of the direct consumers’ shares have been al-
ready applied for.) No cash is to be paid to the
vendor. The superphosphate business is understood’
Li very profitable, and there cannot be anv doubt
whatever about an increased demand as the farming
business extends, as it is bound to extend with the
closer settlement of the country. Applications for
snares may be made through any Exchange broker.
Victoria has made a quiet start with a
State Fire Insurance Office. The necessary powder
was supplied by an Act which probably, to the House
of Rich Landlords, didn’t look loaded—the Special
Funds Act of 1910. The Victorian Government, like
most others, long ago established a fund to indem-
nify the State in the event of any misdescription of
land titles. This fund became very bloated ; and
authority was given to the Government to dip into it.
Willie Watt, evidently anticipating deputations from
tax-dodging shires, took the first dip himself in the
shape of an appropriation to establish a Closer Set-
tlement Fire Insurance Fund. Thus, at last, a start has
been made with a State Fire Office—certainly a very
small start, and as yet hardly visible to the naked
eye, but a start nevertheless. At present the pro-
visions enable only persons holding- areas under the
Closer Settlement Acts to insure their buildings and
lencing with the Government; but if they can get
the benefit of cheap rates, there will soon be a shout
other producers, who won’t see why they also
shouldn t get insurance without providing anvbodv
with fat dividends.
The boom in company promoting in
X.SAV. has moved Sydney Telegraph to tears because
the A.SAY. Parliament has neglected to pass a Com-
panies Act like \ ictoria. The investing public is at'
the mercy of the unscrupulous promoter who can
write an alluring prospectus. All the States, the
lelegraph admits, are behindhand except Victoria,
and there are loud cries for the six States to pa-s
six Acts identical with the British Companies Act, in
order to block the shark. It doesn’t strike the Tele-
graph (or if it does the paper suppresses the fact)
that if the Referendum had been carried, the Federal
1 arliament by passing one Act could have achieved
what the six separate Parliaments of 12 Houses can
only do by six separate Acts. And the chances are
that when the 12 Houses have finished their job—if
they ever attempt it—there will be just enough dif-
ferences in the measures to be a pitfall to the un-
wary and the cause of much expensive litigation.
The smelting business in Australia is in a
very bad way, owing to the keen competition of
European buyers. The oldest established works in
the Commonwealth—those at Waratah —are idle,
being unable to pay as good a price for ore as the
Kuropean buyers are offering, in order to grab the
custom. A week or so ago the N.S.W. Acting-
Premier was asked whether he knew of the serious
condition of the industry. He said he didn’t know,
and, moreover, didn’t see how it could be in the con-
dition alleged, seeing that the Mines Department’s
figures showed an increase in the N.S.W. output of
smelted copper. That conclusion shows how dan-
gerous a little learning is. The fact, well known to
every metal man, is that during the past couple of
years big works have been established at Port Kembla,
primarily to handle the output of Mount Morgan
(<?■) ’ knd subsequently an arrangement was made
with Mount byel] (Tas.). In nine cases out of 10
the smelting business fails because it hasn’t got a
mine behind it to supply it with fodder when it
can t buy any from the public. The Mount Morgan
contract took the place of a mine owned by the co. ;
and contracts of this kind, and of the kind made
subsequently with Mount Lyell, yield of themselves
either no profit at all or none worth mentioning,
l’he increase in the N.S.W. export of smelted and re-
fined copper is, therefore, wholly misleading so far
as it suggests a more prosperous state of the in-
dustry.
Vegetable Creek, Emmaville (N.S.W;), has
proved its deep lead beneath the basalt for some
800 ft. West of the shaft the old co. blocked out
a fair slice of ground, and obtained sluicing returns
equal to lcwt. per cubic yard. Unfortunately this
(lulu t pay, because of the difficulty and expense of
securing the cubic yard. The tin scratcher’s troubles
are many, among them a heavy flow of water, de-
pressions in the bottom, boulders, drift that con-
tains mighty little tin, and over-burden so heavy
that it is difficult to secure. Sometimes, as in
tins case, he is also troubled with a ground landlord,
who holds the freehold. The crosscut at the eastern
end of the workings is 338 ft. east of the shaft, and
has exposed 100 ft. of washdirt, averaging more than
2ft. in thickness, and estimated to be worth 1401 b.
per cubic yard. Of course, boulder wash, indicative
of the main channel, is just what the co. is looking
for, and driving to the east is to be continued in the
hope that at last the main channel has been dis-
covered. The prospects are distinctly cheerful.
Apropos the eucalyptus oil which the
Australian metal flotation cos. are now using. The
Minerals Separation 00. appears to have been the
first to apply it; previously, residual oil (mineral)
had been employed. Lavers, who has been working
experimentally on the flotation processes ever since the
first small plant was put in at Broken Hill Block
14, is credited with discovering its efficacy. The
oil isn t the eucalyptus oil that Billjim pours into
himself when he thinks he has a cold. It is the dis-
tilled juice of the peppermint, or amygdalina, and
can be bought, f.0.b., almost any Australian port,
tor about 7<d. or Bd. per lb. The older eucalyptus
oil costs about lid., and is practically valueless for
flotation purposes. The difference between the two
is that the one oil (amygdalina) is extraordinarily
emulsive, while the other has that quality in only a
small degree. It doesn’t take much to a' ton of'ore
about 21b.—but, even so, the distilling industry is
becoming quite sizeable on account of the vast ton-
nages put through by the flotation processes.
Great Britain Sluicing Co. (N.S.W.) is
licking its lips over the boom price of tin. Last
half-year the co. paid a monthly div. ( £3500 on
a total paid capital of £5000), and, besides writing
£1538 off leases and plant, added £485 to the un-
divided balance. The co, has also been improving
its water supply. In fact, all through its career
the management has kept a watchful eye on that
very important feature of the business, and has
dodged stoppages from drought exceedingly well.
Mount Copeland (N.S.W.) has been pro-
nounced upon by W. A. T. Davies, who does a good
deal of sniffing round for 8., M. and Co. He savs
the formation is “a gash vein, enclosed in a massive-
grained, light-grey diorite.” The gashes in share-
holders pockets promise to deepen, in view of the
dissimilarity between the assay values related at
the time of the float and those now revealed by
Davies. The formation itself has been proved for
its greatest length in No. 1 tunnel, where over
1000 ft. of lode material averages 2ft. 7in. in width.
Of this 835 ft. pans out at s%dwt., or 245. 3d. per
ton, and the whole length 235. Bd. Total reserves
are 06,000 tons. Computing an 85 p.c. extraction,
the profit is to be £552 per month on a tonnage
of 2500 tons. This is 4s. 4d. per ton. To get it,
£6OOO must be spent on top of the stuff that has
already been poured out of shareholders’ “gash
veins.” Deducting that outlay, the profit in sight
is about £ll,OOO. There is some talk of originals
being asked to part up some of the stuff that came
out of the float.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), ob-
tained 3250 z. gold (including concentrates) from 460
tons. Considerable economy will have to be exer-
cised to make an average ‘of less than 15dwt. per
ton pay, for the Cosmopolitan’s reef is only Ift. to
18in. wide, and (he shoot is short, and development
work will be a heavy and persistent tax on profits.
* * * *
“Anti-Trust”: Re oil-ventures in Aus-
tralasia (B. 8/6/’ll). In view of the fact that at
present Rockefeller controls the oil output of the
world, and, incidentally, our little Australian Navy,
by reason of the fact that it is mostly driven with his
oil, it would be unfortunate if the Taranaki (M L )
scheme were to fall through. The Bulletin men-
tions the Commonwealth Oil Corporation, and there
is no doubt that a huge amount of capital has been
sunk in this over-capitalised scheme; still it would
be a vast pity if it were to go to the wall. That huge
octopus, the Standard Oil Trust, has gripped Aus-
tralia hard, and our only hope is the success of our
own oil cos. The Commonwealth Government has


ACHIEVE SUCCESS by
SKILLED
ORGANISATION.
Here in Australia are glorious opportunities for
practically every kind of business. But the best
return comes to those best equipped and properly
controlled.
Ready to work your commercial undertaking,
on a thoroughly sound basis, is a corps of practical
organisers, each man proficient. Familiarity
with local and foreign markets and conditions
gives us a fund of information from which we
freelv draw for the benefit of our clients.
Agencies, Estates, Joint Stock Companies,
Trusts, Mines, Investments, Inventions—
—company and general business management, in
all its varied phases, is handled bv us, resulting
in financial gain to their owners. GET IN
TOUCH WITH US.
J. EARLE HERMANN LTD.,
Imperial Building’s,
16 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
promised help in the shape of aj^p^ S ’fo^ n< after all,
terference would just now be 1 - ’ A earn the
the Commonwealth Oil Corporation has to earn
bonus in order to get it Then, .W’trict (N S W.)
scheme on foot in the Murrurundi district N.
A co. of £300,000 was formed 18 months ag
work the shale deposits there, and Dro bably be
almost _ complete. In fact, the co. J ( ]c , uritici-
producing oil in eight weeks. These P P , etc
pate turning out as much oil, grease, P ’ have
as the Commonwealth Oil Corporation, an L of
the enormous advantage of working
that co.’s capital. So Australian oil cos. may jet
save Australia from the grip of *the Octopus.^
No "less than 801,299 tons <>£ gold ore
have been treated by the State mills and cyanide
plants in the West for a recovery of 825,11/oz. bul
Sion, valued at £3,002,617. Tin production now
amounts to 694 tons. # *
“(’ulex”: I want to blow up these lying
mining reports. I’ve just spent three weeks at Boo-
dalin (W.A.). The daily papers published reports
that alluvial had been found in quantities fromdwts.
to ozs. When there were 100 men on the field they
said there were 200. Later it was reported that most
of the men were on gold. (There were just four men
on the metal.) Then it was said that the alluvial
was on the leases which had been approved. (Right
—as to one lease.) Then the men were said to be
rushing the leases, and trouble was threatening. As
to that a few men pegged on the lease, but when
they found that the law was against them they
quietly left it alone. If 500 men had turned up, and
were a bit annoyed about it, and showed their an-
noyance, the papers would at once yell for Law n -
order, quite overlooking the fact that they would
be the cause of the commotion. The practice is for
any sort of correspondent to have a yarn with some
storekeeper, and base a report on the remarks sup-
plied by that gent., and the plan is one to be severely
discouraged. Wherefore I heave out this junk of
gospel. Surely we have had a sufficiency of boom at
Bullfinch —poor old Bullfinch !
Oroya Exploration (W.A) has thrown up
its option on the Ingliston Consols at Meekatharra,
and its occasional partner, Oroya Junks, has followed
suit by turning down the Gimlet at Ora Banda.
Too stiff a price is the reason assigned for busi-
ness not being done in the former case; but as
regards the Gimlet, the Oroya Links has probably,
for. the reasons given in B. 4/5/’ll, made room for
some less critical buyer.
* * * *
Central and West Boulder shareholders
foregathered in London on May 10 and brooded over
a 17 months’ statement of accounts. This showed
a credit balance of £3812; but as the total in-
cluded the co.’s share of 12 months’ profits which
its working partner —Oroya Links—refuses to stump
up because of a counter-claim for alleged encroach-
ment by Central Boulder tributors on the Links’
Oroya South block, the alleged surplus really has
no right to be shown at all. The cos. are arguing
the claim and the counter-claim, and litigation is
threatened. Since the Oroya Links gave up working
the property, tributors have earned £5OO a month
in royalty for Central Boulder. In view of this, and
of the pressing need for more funds to carry on
with, the meeting decided to try to raise an addi-
tional £25,000 by forming a new co. in 250,000
10s. shares, with an assessment of 2s. per share.
Corinthian, at Southern Cross (W.A.), has
joined the list of local producers. This is the property
which D. L. Uoolette found impossible to sell to J.
Bull, and is a next-door neighbor to the Corinthian
North, for which the Bull Ant Co. is now said to
have a sneaking regard. Maybe the Ant crowd will
make a bid for both shows, and, if successful, will
work them as one property.
Rowan’s Find (W.A.) has given its Bull-
finch delusion best, and, like so many other Tolet-
ville cos., is now on the look-out for another prop-
erty. It is only six months since Rowan’s Find
was floated on the reports of two persons. One of
these declared that it was “the best show outside
Bullfinch,” and added that with a battery (which
he recommended should be got without delay) the
working of the property would be accompanied by
“regular distribution of good profits.” The other
had “no hesitation in recommending the property
as a first-class mining investment,” A golden
mirage must have filled the eyes of those two ex-
perts when they inspected the property.
Cue Consolidated, a London speculative
concern, which to its financial sorrow holds Lance-
fields and other unprofitable things in the West, is
now on a new lay. As intermediate vendor it is
busy with others engineering a Porcupine flota-
tion with a Capital of £600,000, to work a number
of claims, including the Hollinger and Dome. Out
of this deal the co. hopes to collar about £13,000
cash, and a com. of 15 p.c. in cash and shares on
150,000 which it has managed to place. It is in
this venture that the Sons of Gwalia has put
£25,000. ;
* * * *
Ida 11. shareholders met in London on
May 9, and unanimously agreed to the proposed in-
crease in capital. As already stated, the extra
money is to be utilised in cheapening the present
cost of working, and for further developing the
mine at depth. Regarding the deeper levels there
is a marked discrepancy between the estimate of
values by the late manager Campbell Shaw and that
of R. A. Varden, who recently made an independent
inspection. Shaw gave the value of the ore as
30dwt., while Varden reported it as 97dwt.—a differ-
ence of £l4 per ton. Shaw says he took his sam-
ples 4ft. apart to a depth of 36ft. below 1000 ft.,
whereas Varden’s results were obtained from sam-
ples which Shaw claims were not a fair average.
After all, the best and only convincing test is the
mill; and that will probably show' the retiring
boss’s estimate to be nearer the mark than Var-
den’s.
“Oof Bird’’ (W.A.) talks about Meeka-
tharra’s best knovrn mines in the following strain:
“Marmont.—Crushing has been resumed after months
of development. There is plenty of ore available
for treatment above the present bottom level at
300 ft. Fenian.—Cream skimming is still practised
here, and with the extra gold obtained from the en-
larged mill and the newly-erected slimes plant, re-
turns are certain to be ‘bigger than ever’ for a time.
Some of the stopes are wide and the grade high;
but there are stacks of low-grade stuff, which the
spirit will probably move the owners to treat when
they get over their present ore-picking craze. Ing-
liston Consols.- —Most striking feature about this
mine is the size of its stopes, which in places show
a width of from 12ft. to 20ft., over a length of 200 ft.
Only a bite or two of ore has been taken out be-
tween 300 ft. and 500 ft., and the 10-head mill is
much too small to meet present requirements. Ing-
liston Extended. —This show has a big area and two
apparently permanent lodes. Over 50,000 tons of
30s. ore were extracted from one of these bodies in
the oxidised workings, and, like the other Meeka-
tharra shoots that have been followed down, it is
richer in the sulphide zone. Hopes are entertained
of shareholders making a lot of money some day.
Commodore. —A good deal of gold was obtained by
the prospectors down to 100 ft., and tlie work done
by the co. now in possession also panned out well.
So far the 300 ft. level has been disappointing, but
values are expected to right themselves in deeper
ground.”
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : Have got my second
wind, so that “R.B.’s” uncharitable hope has drawn a
blank. His rigmarole in B. 25/5/’ll only leaves
one point to settle —whether he is a fool or the
other thing. On the published statements as to
what Grut had reported, and what some other fel-
lows said he had reported, “R. 8.” alleges be bought
shares and made a loss. He “never heard that Doo-
lette had made a report,” but he did read what
Crabbe had to say, and he knew “after the middle
of December” that the Bull Ant wasn’t a mine.
Yet in B. 12/l/’ll he attacked a Bulletin writer
and puffed the show as a good thing, and until
stirred up three months later he never thought it
worth while saying anything more about it. If
“R. 8.” knew about the valuelessness of the property
“after the middle of December,” why did he write
what he did near the middle of January ?
* * * *
The same old story, as told by extracts
from the Golden Horseshoe manager’s last three
annual reports Feb. 13, 1909: “In view of the
satisfactory state of the mine generally and the large
ore reserves, also the increased prospective value of
the mine on account of the recent important develop-
ments at the 2000 ft. level, I consider the outlook of
the mine to be increasingly satisfactory.” . . . Feb.
16, 1910: “In view of the splendid ore bodies proved
at the 2000 ft. level, and the very important develop-
ments at the 2600 ft. level on our eastern boundary,
and the increased ore reserves promised by these de-
velopments, special arrangements have been made to
push ahead with the opening up of our ore bodies in
the lower levels as rapidly as possible, and at the same
time increase the capacity of our treatment plant, so
as to bring its efficiency to a point equal to 200 head
of stamps under existing conditions. . . . Taking
all the foregoing into consideration, 1 consider the
future prospects of the mine are exceedingly good;
in fact, the outlook of the mine has never looked
better.” Feb. 18, 1911: “I regret the operations
for the 12 months have been so unsatisfactory and
disappointing. . . . The bad year which we have
had is not a true indication of the position and pos-
sibilities of the mine, which you will see from this
report and an examination of the mine plans are
very promising indeed, and in my opinion should
improve.” Nevertheless, since the end of 1908 the
estimated value of the ore reserves has been cut
down by over a million sterling! For a mine with
prospects “never better” at the end of 1909, this
ought to be something like a record.
* * * *
William Orr, trying to get the Vic. Cham-
ber of Mines to “recommend the State Government to
take into consideration the advisability of establish-
ing iron and steel works,” tried to warm up the un-
imaginative crowd with a few Yankee figures. “The
magnitude of the United States Steel Corporation,
owned by 80,000 shareholders, was emphasised by
the fact that it employed 180,000 workmen, and more
than a million American people were dependent on it
for a livelihood. The co. pays £25,600,000 in wages
per annum, and possesses 30,000 cars and 700 loco-
motives and owns a fleet of 100 ore ships. It has
93 blast furnaces running day and night, and makes
44 p.c. of the pig iron of the United States. The
co. also owns 50 ironstone mines, which produce
16,000,000 tons of ore per annum. Huge quantities
of this ore are conveyed from Minnesota, Lake Supe-
rior district, to Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, a distance
of 800 miles. This corporation paid Mr. J. D. Rocke-
feller £16,000,000 for his iron ore mines. The
capital of the corporation exceeds £276,000,000,
an'd the net annual earnings exceed £21,000,000.”
And then he tried to dazzle them with some Austra-
lian figures, showing the consumption of iron and
steel goods (say, 4jt millions sterling a year), and
the millions of tons of unused raw material. But it
was no good. The Chamber gasped “Socialism!”
and decided that it would rather have nothing than
share something with the crowd.
Cathcart Central, Ararat (Vic.), is now
running level with the Cathcart in favor. For a
mine with the shaft half full of water, with plant
not yet up, with a drive to go out to the lead, and
with the gutter to be drained, th.s means that the
baby is going to step into the old man’s shoes.
What flips Central shares forward is that the Cath-
cart has got gold down the lead in the deep
ground. The old co. has only been saved from sink-
ing a new shaft before by the fact that the run of
goid has kept high on the northern bank of the gut-
ter. The sample got in the pot-hole sunk under
the level went 3oz. to the fathom. A big effort
will be made to reach the gold without a shaft;
for it would be risky to go to the expense when only
about 1000 ft. of lead remains to be worked. Critics of
the Dodds-Bryant party are turning up files to re-read
the famous declaration that the Cathcart lead could
not go into the Central, into which it certainly is
now making. McCrorey smiles at this, feeling that
his little investment in the Central isn’t so rocky
now that some of his old opponents are sidling into
his paddock for feed.
W. 11. Cundy, of Bendigo, appears as a
Northern Territory expert. Three and a-half years
ago he was missed from the Beehive. Only his inti-
mates knew that he was chasing copper in the Gulf
of Carpentaria. The bread cast away has returned
after many days in the form of notes on one of the
formations that prospectors Nelson and King have
picked up for the Melbourne-Northern Territory syn-
dicate. Cundy cuts the width of the lode down to
loft., and instead of representing it as the biggest
galena formation in the world, describes it as “segre-
gated masses,” which means anything. Of course
it isn’t certain that his notes fit the lodes found
by the prospectors. Assuming that they do, there
isn’t much on which to build a rush to Borooloola.
His picture of the creek cutting the lode falls far
short of the story heard here. The worst little de-
tail is that a shafthas been sunk to 25ft. or 30ft., and
no one in the wide world apparently can tell who
did the work, or what has become of the ore. This
is enough to raise some dizzy doubt, for if there
had been much 80 p.c. lead ore knocking round some
of the old Maroomba birds would surely have had a
peck at it when the boom was on.
* * * *
The smelting works at Aldershot (Q.),
which came to grief partly through bad management
and partly through not having a mine behind them,
are in process of being dismantled. The whole outfit
has been sold and the furnaces have been pulled
down, no doubt to recover any metals that may have
got into the bricks.
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers,
crushed for the month 4420 tons for £B6OO ; cyan-
iding (3200 tons tailings) gave £1411; total re-
venue, just over £lO,OOO. Costs have been screwed
down, so the profit is about £2700, which is the
best for some time past. On the strength of this im-
provement and its accumulated profit, the Extended
pays a sixpenny dividend. Unfortunately the deepest
level (No. 20) is disappointing, and the reserves are
being eaten up.
East Mexican, Charters Towers, is crush-
ing more stone, and the fortnightly output has in-
creased to 590 tons ; but the grade is lower by a few
shillings. A dividend has been declared, payable
July 10. East Mexican got a good deal of help from
its neighbor, the New Brilliant Freehold, but has
now given some return by proving a new make of
stone above one of the Freehold’s blank areas. The
latter, taking the , hint, will put another rise up to-
wards the Mexican boundary. Like its neighbors,
the Mexican has to battle through blanks, which ac-
counts for the recent depression.
* * * *
“Quidam”: The idea that Charters Towers
is “done,” an opinion held by many people at vari-
ous times since the field started, is a pessimistic
groan not likely to be warranted for many a
long day to come. The April returns were
£41,000 odd, and a field that can produce that
amount in 30 days, after having been “done” so
many times, will probably live to smile again. On
the Towers every mine, like the proverbial mongrel,
has its day, and each year sees some battler emerge
from obscurity and become a star. Each successive
year, like each Melbourne Cup, immortalises some
new name; there has been the year of the Brilliant,
and of the Day Dawn, and of the Brilliant and St.
George, of the Day Dawn Block and Wyndham, and
the Brilliant Central, of the Brilliant Ex-
tended, and the Queen Cross, of the Mills
United, and the Brilliant Freehold, and now the
East Mexican has its run. One important feature
of the field is the wide expanse of auriferous country
surrounding the comparatively small area in wh'ch
most of the mining has been done ; nevertheless until
very recently it was easier to get cash in Charters
Towers to prospect an auriferous proposition in
Sahara than to develop a promising show a few
miles outside the town. Now the tendency is the
other way ; and Towers people are beginning to rea-
lise that at their back door there are quite as at-
tractive propositions as in, say, Papua, or at the
South Pole.
Oaks Rush (Q.) is putting the finishing
touches to its plant. Some of the machinery is old,
and was bought che.ap, but the gas producer and
engine, dynamo, electric pumps on the river, and a
pipe-line to the mill, make it an up-to-date equip-
ment. At this parent mine, development work at
the 100 ft. level has been in hand for some time, and
a big formation has been exposed. Most of it is
poor, though the quality is variable. Tt is a case
where the battery is left —-with very considerable
confidence—to tell its own tale.
Last year the ancient Wallaroo and Moon-
ta (S.A.) produced copper at a cost of £54 11s. 2d.,
so the profit was scanty. With these high costs the
average grade of the vein-stuff is of great importance.
It is, therefore, a happy bit of news that recently
some rich ore, assaying up to 25 p.c., has been dis-
covered near Warmington’s, in a part of the work-
ings that some years since produced high-grade stuff.
The lode is 12ft. wide, and enough ore is being ob-
tained to sweeten up the returns.
Mount Lyell, helped by the enrichment in
its deepest level, is obtaining an extraction of slightly
over 2i p.c. Just now, with the metal quoted at
£56, the value of 2| units of copper is 28s. At
this average 40 tons of crude ore run a ton of red
metal, so the working cost on the latter (taking the
present cost on crude ore at 17s. Bd.) totals £35
6s. Bd. per ton of blister —a remarkablv low figure.
Mount Lyell isn’t likely to improve on that; on the
other hand, costs are more likely to get above 18s.
than to keep below it. The tendency is almost bound
to be upwards, and, with a tonnage like Lyell’s, it
doesn’t take many pence to eat a big hole in the
profits.
Mount Bischoff (Tas.), with only 12,000
shares and a monthlj' output of 90 tons of tin oxide,
wears feathers in its hat in consequence of the pre-
sent boom in the white metal. Shareholders are get-
ting £3600 per month (6s. per share), which repre-
sents a profit of £6O per ton on the metal coming
out of the mine; and the co. can do this very easily.
Last half-year the average return per ton of dirt was
a shade over 101 b. tin oxide, containing 71b. of
metal. Basing a calculation on this, the nearly pure
tin costs £96 per ton; all over that is profit. The
expenses are so low that a ton of metal can be taken
out of 320 tons of dirt at a substantial profit,
with the metal at half its present price. Bischoff is
also doing well just now out of its customs trade, so
if the high prices last shareholders can look forward
to a bonus.
Captain Miles, ex-Minister of Lands and
Works, is back in Tasmania from Siam, and reports
of the Tongkah property that everything in the
garden is lovely. The co. has five dredges working
on good tin, the old manager has been replaced, the
co. has bought itself out of its dock and channel
agreement, boring and dredging tests prove that the
tin “does not decrease in quantity or quality as we
go seaward,” Nos. 4 and 5 dredges last month won
70 tons of tin from ground 1 i miles from shore, and,
though “there are occasional patches of poor ground,
the poorest is highly payable.” In Tasmania, despite
the fact that a decade ago Miles made political life
a bit too warm, there are many shrewd folks who
reckon that he is a lucky man "to hunt with —a re-
sourceful person who always plays to win.
* * * *
From Maoriland : There has been a mild
flutter in Thames stocks owing to the May Queen,
now developing at 1000 ft., striking strong dabs of
gold in one of its reefs at that depth. Talisman,
Karangahake, reports £17,850 from 4230 tons for
last crushing, and all is looking well. Ohinemuri
shares have had a temporary set-back on account of
the new demands of the Waihi Miners’ Union and
the fact that the Karangahake men have voted to
leave the Thames body and affiliate with the Waihi
Union and Federation of Labor. The Waihi Union
wants 9s. for surface men instead of 7s. 6d., and
corresponding increases for miners, with revised pro-
visions as to hours and overtime. The parties have
met in conference, but haven’t been able to come
to terms, and the outlook is pretty glum.
The Rand gold output for April was
the rate of 8,000,0000 z. a year ! Be-
tween 1880 and 1890 the average annual production
for the whole world was under 6,000,0000 z.
“8.E.” : A few facts re the mono-rail and
other trains, of which “Leo Lear” (B. 4/5/’ll)
seems unaware. For Brennan’s mono-train power is
provided by a petrol engine, which is not cheaper
than steam per b.h.p. developed. The petrol engine
drives an electric generator, from which separate
motors on each vehicle obtain their power. Gyro-
scopes on each vehicle have each their own separate
motor, but these are of small power, and for that
reason of comparatively insignificant weight. There
is not less friction with one rail than with two;
although only half as many wheels, each wheel of
necessity carries double the weight. The reason that
Brennan’s train can mount steeper grades depends,
not on the gyroscopes or the one rail (as “Leo,” in
common with a great many other laymen, appears to
think), but on the fact that each of the wheels, not
Dnlv on the loco., but on the trucks as well, is a
driving-wheel. This is no new idea, and has already
been applied to electric trains and trams. The mono-
rail train could not climb a steeper grade than a
Sydney tramcar if each of the wheels of the latter
were connected to the motors. Does “Leo” wish one
to infer that the mono-train will go round a three-
chain curve at 120 miles per hour? Such a train
would be inclined at 11 degrees to the horizontal,
and would exert a side-thrust on the rails equal to
five times its own weight! The track for such a
train should be well worth seeing. I will admit
that, under other circumstances, a high speed could
be obtained with the mono, but so it can on two
rails. Express trains have put up speeds in trials of
120 miles per hour and over in Germany. The mono
certainly has its advantages, chief of which are:
Less cost for rails (more than half, however), for
sleepers (because shorter), and cheapness and rapidity
of track-construction. The rolling-stock, however,
would be vastly more expensive; not only does the
cost of gyroscopes and motors enter into considera-
tion, but the undercarriages are much more compli-
cated and costly. The advantages as to grade, speed,
etc., so often cited, are equally applicable to a two-
rail track, and are by no means confined to Brennan’s
or anyone else’s mono-rail. The above is not meant
to be in any way derogatory to this invention, the
chief use of which, in the writer’s opinion, will for
some time to come be for military and other pur-
poses, which call for the laying of a track in
minimum time. What it will lead to in the future,
of course, remains to be seen.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent.' power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in Continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings oi
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured fo-
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
nnd asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. 11. Lamond & Co., 32S Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
Tbe Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair
than Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is
of the well-known Blake type, but has some ad-
ditional improvements which have justified in prac-
tice all the claims advanced by the patentee. The
work of crushing is done on the down-stroke of the
pitman instead of the up-stroke; there is no strain
on the pitman cap ; two large side rods resist the
thrust of the toggles, and enable the jaws to be
regulated within a large range; the back toggle is
so made as to resist all legitimate strains of crush-
ing, but will shear under exceptional conditions and
save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating; the jaws are convex and con-
cave, and with the cheek plates are made of steel
and are reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have installed a great
number of these machines, and hold the sole manu-
facturing rights for the Commonwealth.* [3
-» * * *
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Extract from the Saturday Review, January 7,
1911.—“ Insurance—Ae —A Colonial Mutual Departure:
Policies, combining life or endowment assurance
with other benefits are gradually coining into favor.
Their popularity seems to be justified. Why should
one be compelled to take out two or more policies
when several risks can just as easily be covered under
a single contract? It was a consideration of this
kind that some short time ago impelled the Board of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society to intro-
duce in Australasia a combined Life, Accident and
Sickness policy, and as the experiment was attended by
a most welcome increase in New Business, it was re-
cently decided to extend the issue to the United
Kingdom. There were evidently sound reasons for
the departure. Neither life nor endowment assurance
policies afford quite the full protection needed b.v
persons, because no provision is made for acci-
dents or sickness that do not end fatally. . . . Re-
garded as a whole, this new policy possesses many
attractions. It is decidedly cheap, and will appeal
to those who cannot afford to disburse large sums
yearly in the form of insurance premiums.”*
WOOD PIPE has won success by its great quali-
ties —economy, durability and increased carrying
capacity. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bal-
main, Sydney, will send catalogue.*
* * * *
Mine Managers and Engineers.—Send vour orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bolder Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ;
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* f 2
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Sales-
man.)*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney'.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand, Contracts at low-
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil.
ease of starting, no complicated arrangement of
valves, and aut( mafic lubrication, and these are testi-
fied to by Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 2o
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* [1
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and, will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers- to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


Kf
?-M
R©B U R
It’s not all sunshine being a
tea-room girl what, between
the “rot” the boys talk, and
the impertinent way some of the
young girls give their orders,
and the grumpy old men and
the grumbling old women, there’s
a lot to put up with still,
there’s a bright side too, thank
goodness for some of the
customers are really nice. If
people only knew how hard we
try to please everybody they’d
all treat us nicely.
For instance, if a girl takes
care when she gets an order for
a pot of tea that it is properly
wetted, and not allowed to stand
for more than 5 or 6 minutes,
don’t you think people might just
say “thank you, l enjoyed that
cup of tea ” —it wouldn’t cost
anything, and a kind word would
give a girl a lot of pleasure.
Talking about pleasing people
—do you know, I’ve heard more
nice things said about Robur
tea than anything else I’ve ever
had to serve—everybody seems
to like it —and a good many
take the trouble to say they do —
l must say 1 like it better than
any other tea myself—and I’m
sure there isn’t any tea more
saving to use.
The Wa tress.
uhjiuojoj
LONG LIVE
KING GEORGE V.
Charles Heidsieckj
))
Has the Royal
Warrant.
“ Che Sacred Oils.”
Absolutely the only remedy guaranteed to remove
lines and wrinkles, cure faded complexions, and tone
up relaxed facial muscles. This secret compound
has been handed down from generation to generation,
until it has become the sole property of the Nuns of
Yaldajov, Servia.
“The Sacred Oils” possess a remarkable power in
removing those signs of age which most women
dread. No woman need have lines, crowsfeet, or
loose, baggy skin now that “The Sacred Oils” is
obtainable in Australia. Write to West all Guest,
Toilet Specialist, 38 Chapel Street, Windsor, Vic.
Advice and pamphlets free. Price, ss.'bottle; post,
® s ‘ Sydney Agents —
MISS CUTHBERT, Otis Chambers, 82 King Street.
MRS. SHEARER, 64 Strand Arcade.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROS.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 19, 1911.
My Dear Arxni, —
When this reaches you Sydney will be
just starting to coronate with crackers,
electric bulbs, flags and other holiday trim-
mings ; and wedged in somewhere will be the
brilliant ball to be given by Mayor Allen
Taylor. “G.R.” is getting into working order
in large, fat-bodied letters on public build-
ings, and the Divorce Court is going to
blaze “God Save the King,” instead of its
favorite legend, “Who Shall Separate Us?”
“The Messiah,” the Sheffield Choir’s first
attack on the musical microbe in this town,
was remarkable for the fine quality of its
choral voices, and the mediocre and color-
Isss singing of the soloists. Nevertheless,
Miss Jennie Taggart, the soprano, carried
conviction in one of her solos:—
Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem !
Shout! Shout, O daughter !
Robert Charlesworth, the bass, was the
star. An old pupil of Dr. Coward’s, he
had no rivals amongst the principals. His
voice, before leaving Fogland, was men-
tioned by one of the choir, in a burst of
enthusiasm, as “magnificent”; but too
much travel is said to have tired its big
ding-dong tones.
The Yorkshire drawl of the visiting
Choir spread itself over Hawkesbury Col-
lege one day last week. Newcasfle-on-
Tyne, besides growing coal and machine-
guns, is also a vocal forcing-bed, which
produces choral singing in all its vagaries.
It sent a big contingent of singers to this
famous world’s scamper of the Ilarriss
team. Dr. Coward’s own Newcastle Choral
Society contributed 30 or more members.
The Yorkshire speaking voice—with ex-
ceptions, of course —was heard to great ad-
vantage at the pig-pens: “Doan’t he luik er
foine li-ittle pi-ig, and so fa-a-t!” One in-
fant pig might have been made into “baked
sucking” before 30 or 40 Yorkshire admirers
had got to the end of their “fa-a-t.”
We x-eached the trim lawns of the Hawkes-
bury College in a cloud of fine white dust.
Principal Potts extended the hand of hos-
pitality and got into his little pulpit in
the lecture hall at 11.20 a.m. The choir
found literature, relating to the art of early
rising on the land, hard to avoid. It was
liberally laid on to every desk. Mr. Potts
trimmed up his solid information with a
dry North-Countree wit that lent a keen
edge to bacon, butter and oats.
The mosquito served up in formalin—
uotably the Scots’ Grey with the military
band on his legs—gave Yorkshire food for
thought. The cicada with a pin through
his waist was another surprise; and flowers
growing in the open, in mid-winter, made
Sheffield stand up and ask questions.
The Choir sang on a full stomach immedi-
ately after lunch, in the green square of
the College quadrangle. “They’ll sing any'-
where, any time,” said Mr. Coward, junior.
His sisters were amongst the throng—two
youthful damsels, whose ruddy complexions
had the quite-well appearance which the
older novelists severely described as “rude
health.”
Hawkesbury students were polite guides
and walking directories to piggeries, silos,
cow-bails, ostriches and oranges. Four
thousand acres were skimmed of their chief
interest in about two hours’ pedestrian tour,
on a day that was unseasonably warm.
Sheffield mopped its hot face, and tried to
cool off under the piggery roof. There was
rather a surfeit of bacon, and the Voices
got into the cowsheds with alacrity. “Ah
doan’t believe there’s such things as mi-i-ilk-
ing ma-a-achines, so there!” The York-
shire _ lass, confronted with the milking-
machine in full blast, meekly admitted that
she’d thought it “im-pos-sible.” The cows,
brought in for purposes of demonstration,
had a harrowing half-hour. Principal
Potts kept his eye on one contingent, and
implored it to stand away from the
milkers’ heads. Then another personally-
conducted tour would wave exclamatory
British arms in front of startled beasts
with their heads fixed in a wooden slot, their
hearts in their throats, and their eyes di-
lated with terror. Tea at 3 p.m., and a
dusty drive back to the township, which
looks as it had a past, and Yorkshire ad-
mitted it was thankful to rest its legs in
the train.
Under-Secretary Anderson, with Dr. Cow-
ard and some of the Sheffield soloists, motored
up to the College later in the day. Lady
Norah Noel, a very average amateur singer
and one of the minor disappointments—the
choir being a major success—was not
amongst the party. Intelligence Department
McMillan was the genial conductor of the
sprint.
The Sydney Domestic Science College is
within coo-ee, thanks to the persistence of
a little band of women who have been wear-
ing out their shoe-leather on Public Instruc-
tion stairs for the last two or three years.
Minister Beeby arrived at the Education De-
partment with an open mind, into which new
ideas can be poured ; and if ancient prece-
dent is broken in the process, so much the
worse for precedent. Mrs. David, who was
amongst the first to crystallise the domestic-
college idea, can now sit down and get her
breath.
In spite of prayers, entreaties, good wages,
liberal holidays, and an unlimited supply of
followers, the modern goddess of the broom
and dust-pan is as hard to snare as a city
sparrow. The bad old tradition of slavery,
with an indifferent kind of kennel to sleep
in, still damns domestic service. What it
was rather than what it is makes the call-
ing of “general servant” anathema to in-
telligent women. There is only one rem-
edy—to raise domestic work to its proper
place as a business which will have no room
for the incompetent drone. This has been
hammered at, till it evolved the shadowy out-
line of a Sydney training college for hired
help. The deputating ladies who, the other
day, extracted a Ministerial promise of aid
in this matter included Mrs. David, Mrs.
Leonard, Mrs. Holman, Miss Matthews, Mrs.
Hazelton, and Miss M. Hall.
On the eight-hour shift for domestic
work, Mr. Beeby spoke as a man. This pro-
mises to be the hardest nut for the house-
mother to crack. There is nothing on earth
so difficult to work by rule of thumb as the
domestic gods. They sit down to rest at odd
half hours during the day; they tumble over
saucepans and stoke the stove just when an
eight-hour time-limit would send off the at-
tendant priestess to walk out with a smart
young beau. Some men are punctual;
others are —variegated. The butcher, also,
has his moods. To-day he leaves a heart or
liver at the back entrance at the right time.
To-morrow, he won’t show the ghost of a
top-side till the siren of the stove —generally
the housemother- —is goaded to despair by a
hungry family. The chop on the grill, the
humble potato on the boil, the master of the
house on his high horse—-the clock strikes !
Everything ceases to go on happening. Eight-
hours are up. The master of the house, sup-
ported by a good conscience, dines off his
evening paper.
Two shifts of domestic help, as sketched
by Mr. Beeby, pre-supposes that evex-y house-
holder will have not less than £5OO a year.
The oi'dinary woman who has handled the
wages and up-keep (board and residence,
etc.) of one relay of domestic help is at pre-
sent scratching her experience for ideas not
linked up with impossible schemes. The
Saturday or Wednesday half-holiday, in ad-
dition to the Sunday jaunt, is here offered
as a better suggestion. It is more likely to
meet the Great Necessity—till tabloid meals
and the millennium arrive—than the eight-
hour drop-plates-and-saucepans proposal.
That there are young women in abundance
who want to give some kind of domestic
help and live by it, a Sydney man pi-oved
the other day. He advertised for a com-
panion for his one daughter—a young
woman to do just what a daughter would
be expected to do in a “middle-class” house
with “other help kept.” The mail poured
in upwards of 140 offers. A couple of years
ago a similar advt. produced over 200.
In spite of stories to the effect that she
was introducing something quite new, Queen
Mary has merely gone back to the Adelaide
manner in having her Coronation finery
waited on by some of Britain’s best-looking
girls. Macaulay, in a letter to his favorite
sister, Hannah, says :
Her (Adelaide’s) train of purple and ermine was
borne by six fair creatures. ... The Queen be-
haved admirably. The King (William IV.) very
awkwardly. . . . The Duke of Devonshire looked
as if he came to be crowned instead of his master.
The Chancellor looked like Mephistopheles behind
Margaret in the church. The ceremony was much
too long, and some parts of it were carelessly per-
formed. The Archbishop mumbled. .. . Above
all, the bearing of the King made the foolish parts
of the ritual appear monstrously ridiculous, and de-
prived many of the better parts of their proper
effect. The moment of the crowning was extremely
fine.
Besides the train-bearers, Adelaide had
“a crowd of beautiful women and girls” as
attendants. There’s no mention of any
male ornament of the Court being near her
person. The Dean and Prebendaries of
Westminster were just in front, clad in
copes of cloth of gold and other gorgeous
ecclesiastical millinery. The 1831 pageant
is apparently responsible for some of the de-
tails in the royal drapery display at West-
minster on June 22 —an item worth resus-
citating because Mary’s desire to suri’ound
herself with feminine charms has been so
persistently refei'red to as a novelty of this
1911 Coi’onation.
“The Balkan Princess” is a well-dressed
musical play which embraces no special nov-
elties, except a Duke who drops into jour-
nalism with inflammatory headlines, and
sits on dinner-plates in his spare moments.
Florence Young, Princess of Balai’ia, beset
by eligible Dukes, gets off her throne for one
act, and sees life at a Bohemian restaurant
in a fascinating blue drape with an Arabian
Nights’ cap en suite. This gives Duke Ser-
gius (Frank Greene), who is handsomely
upholstered in mole velvet and tights, his op-
portunity to make love. He does it joyfully,
sitting all over the food supply. The Un-
known Princess has no appetite for the steak
—not because a nice young man appears to
be sitting on the bread, but because it’s her
cue to sing.
Olive Godwin, as Sofia, gets every ounce
of atti’action out of a black-satin gown.
She breaks her heart, later on, in apricot and
cream, an elegant environment only spoilt
by a freak cut-away skirt, with a siding in
the middle of its front hem. All the clothes
are fresh and pretty in this piece. The
Princess of Balaria rules over her people for
quite half an hour, clad in a charming shim-
mer of blush pink satin under a silvery
gauze tunic with a long, quivering fringe
like spear points of light.
Miss Monie stage-managed a farewell tea-
party to Mrs. Percy Hunter the other day.
A handsome presentation bag, with a gold-
lettered front and a tame crocodile back,
was the excuse for a small ceremonial,
wedged in between ice-creams and closing
time. Mrs. Holman, as official referee for
those present, handed over the bag to Mrs.
Hunter, who wore a filmy non-explosive
gown of gunpowder blue. Ethel Turner
joined the elect at a table which included
Mrs. Trefle and the pink plumes of Dame
Carruthers’s good-looking hat. Miss Olga
Monie, one of this season’s debutantes, in
fire-brigade red with black furs, wore the
warm color that gives a benediction to a
bleak grey day. There were several musical
crumbs, vocal and otherwise, that didn’t in-
terrupt the conversation. When Percy Hun-
ter has assuaged his thirst for information
in U.S.A. he will be joined in London by his
wife and two boys.
Two ancient families met at church at
Peel, a sleepy village on the road from Bath-
urst to Sofala, the other day. One principal
party was Frederick Cox, a descendant of
that Captain William Cox, paymaster of the
102nd Regiment, who arrived in the Minerva
in 1800; the bride was Eileen, a daughter of
the Herbert Suttors of Bruccdale, and a
descendant of the George Sutter (sic) who
arrived in H.M.S. Porpoise in 1800. Bruce-
dale was the first home of the Suttors be-
yond the Mountains; its owner was William
Henry Suttor, who was the father of the
present President of the Legislative Coun-
cil. The officiating clergyman was Arch-
deacon Oakes, a grandson of Francis Oakes,
an early chief constable of Parramatta.
Brucedale was once a place of much con-
sequence. There, 60 years ago, Governor
Fitzroy met “a party of 40 gentlemen” at
dinner, and in the evening there was a dance,
at which “the very first families” were repre-
se«t»d. There is an account of it all in the
“Reminiscences” of Colonel Mundy, who was
waited upon by a soldier who had been
tried by court-martial for deserting the Col-
onel’s own regiment during the Canadian
rebellion, and who, after being branded with
the letter “D,” was transported for life.
The Hayes baronetcy—she was a daughter
of the late Judge Wilkinson of this city—
is still liable to go hunting for an heir to the
title, which carries with it nearly 23,000
acres in County Donegal, Ireland. Lady
Hayes, married in 1901, has still no son.
Her brother, Dr. Camac Wilkinson, who
worried the tuberculosis germ in N.S.W., is
now 1 on the top rail—which is to say, he
owns a brougham and house in Harley-
street, London.
By last English mail came a menu salved
from a London Suffrage dinner to Vida Gold-
stein. This menu has several features that
pick it out from the ordinary dinner card.
It scatters its colons —thus it’s Miss : Vida :
Goldstein —and gets off the common old blazed
trail of punctuation. And it alludes with de-
ference to the chairman as the Hon. W.
Pember Reeves, and gives him a tail nearly
two yards long. “Director of the London
School of Economics, and late Agent-
General t for the Commonwealth of New
Zealand.” Isn’t Maoriland sitting up in
front when Woman’s Vote is served with
the wine and walnuts'?
Miss Una Piggin, daughter of Mr. F. C.
Piggin, of Corowa, who is going to marry
Mr. Alan Buchan when the early wattle
shows its gold, is connected with the well-
known Ramsay family, of Narrow Plains
station, in the Riverina. The Ramsays
were once something considerable in wool,
but met bad seasons with less luck than
their neighbors-in-drought. Mrs. Ramsay,
sen., still a handsome old lady, was a Vic-
torian Miss Macdonald. The Ramsay hos-
pitality, 20 years ago or thereabouts, kept
the homestead latch always on the click.
Conceiming the occasional failure of the
Australian woolgrower, I fancy Rolf
Boldrewood has used a dramatic incident in
the story of the N.S.W. Desailly family. A
daughter of the late Mr. Desailly (he was
once a big station-owner out in the Far West)
was a small child at the time, and too young
to recall the exodus,_ but she tells the story
as her mother told it to her. After a long-
drought the station was mortgaged to the
banks. The drought dragged on till the
payment of interest became impossible. Mr.
Desailly surrendered to the mortgagee, and
with wife and children drove away from
the homestead. Before they reached the
first slin-rail they were drenched by the
heavy rain that saved the station—for the
banks.
During the epidemic of dressy concerts in
the Town Hall, the wildness of female
head ornaments has excited the sighs of the
person who sits behind them. The tame,
speckled domestic woman sticks a comb, a
small buckle, or a highly-respectable black
velvet bow in some eyrie amongst her locks.
But the untamed heathen craze for a spiky
row of stiff feathers, wide glittering bands of
dazzling color and various forms of head-
dress chic in the Solomon Islands, is getting
on the nerves of plain persons who can’t ask
the lady in front to “kindly remove her hair.”
With warmer weather our new Silk Cul-
ture Society will start hatching worms. The
Silkworm ladies meet every other Thursday
in the Botanic Gardens at 11.30. By their
mulberry leaves do ye know them. Curator
Maiden is mentioned as extending a friendly
finger to sericulture in this State.
Gustav V. of Sweden celebrated his 53rd
birthday in Pitt-street at the Swedish Con-
sulate. He is a poet, amongst other things,
and in 1881 married Victoria of Baden, who
has had a better-cushioned throne than most
of her agitated ancestors. The Consul-
General for Australasia, Mr. Von Goes,
played first fiddle at the local birthday party;
and vessels flying the Swedish flag in the
harbor made quite a brave color-show.
Ella Wheeler Wilcox, the U.S.A. poetess
most generally admired by the Girl, recently
scraped the surface of Japan, China, Burma
and India; and presently we may have
another tripper’s impressions. Meantime, Ella
lias shown that naive ingenuity of Woman
which has hitherto not found its" right outlet,
the Law. W. T. Stead took part in a
luncheon to announce the arrival of the
American lady who never makes speeches
and rather preens her feathers on this form
of total abstinence. Stead remarked that
though Ella might not be a woman suffra-
gist, one of her poems had been adopted as
a -war song of that cause. This broke the
Wilcox silence with a loud crack. She re-
plied in a Machiavellian sentence: “Though
my Muse may be a suffragist, I am not one.”
(N.B. —Can the Muse be sent to Holloway
for tearing a policeman’s uniform?)
The suffering rich have had another
game invented for their leisure moments —
those moments not filled with billiards, gclf,
bridge, _ etc. The new relaxation is called
“Solos,” and can be played anywhere. Here
is a list of the appliances: Two smooth gun-
metal discs with a hole in the centre; two
3ft. leather straps; two small white pegs
fitted into steel plates, and a measuring tape
sft. long. The Times says it can be played
on any piece of decent turf, even though it be
too narrow for law r n tennis. It might even
be played on Sunday.
Australian artists in London gave a party
on May 30, in honor of the visit of the
Coronators. If they didn’t give it, they
meant to, for a programme came by post
last week. Historic episodes, from the
discovery of this big garden plot till the
Commonwealth took charge, were to be
represented in the junketing. The com-
mittee had secured the help of Geo. Coates,
G. W. Lambert. Henry Fullwood, Fred
Leist, Bertram Mackennal, B. E. Minns.
Tom Roberts, Derwent Wood and Arthur
Streeton.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS
limited,
Vice-Regal
uhjiuojoj
Jewellers.
THE LEADING HOUSE FOR
WEDDING PRESENTS.
Catalogue
Post Free.
alii!
Goods on
Approval.
Velvet-lined Mahogany Case, containing 12 Pairs of Mother of Pearl
Dessert Knives and Forks, and 12 Pairs of Ivory Fish Knives and
Forks. Best Quality Silver-Plated.
£3 10s.
SHOWROOMS I
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office Address: 19 Charterhouse Street, Holborn Circus, E.C.
800,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall Series” of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price Is. each; Post Free, Is. Id.
“ THE DASHWOODS,”
By STEELE RUDD.
WITH 15 FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS BY CLAUDE MARQUET.
PRICE, Is. POSTAGE, Id.
When the Dashwoods visit the city the fun begins, for Old John
and Young Peter seem incapable of keeping out of mischief, and
manage somehow to entangle the whole family in their ludicrous
escapades until mother and the girls begin to long for home. For
pure merriment and good humor the author has never written any-
thing better than “The Dashwoods,” which is sure to prove a
favorite.
uhjiuojoj
“DAN KELLY, OUTLAW,”
BEING THE MEMOIRS OF DANIEL KELLY (BROTHER OF NED KELLY, LEADER OF THE
KELLY GANG).
Edited by AMBROSE PRATT.
WITH FOUR FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS BY PERCY SPENCE.
Price, Is. Postage, Id.
In the whole history of Australian bushranging no gang was more notorious than that captained
by Ned Kelly. Various accounts of the doings of this gang have appeared, but none bears hall-
mark of truth so pointedly as these leaves from a dead man’s diary, as edited by Mr. Pratt, who has
presented the story so convincingly that, for tense interest and exciting events, it has few, if any,
equals.
Dan Kelly was the only member of the gang who escaped the clutches of the law, and his account
of the last stand at Glenrowan is a veritable human document.
uhjiuojoj
“THAT DROLL LADY,”
By TIIOS. E. SPENCEK, author of “How McDougall Topped the Score,” “The
Surprising Adventures of Mrs. Bridget MeSweeney,” etc. With 13 full-
page illustrations by Marquet.
PRICE, Is. POSTAGE, Id.
As Mrs. Bridget McSweenev is the droll lady referred to, the reader may
rest assured that he will get full value for his money, for our genial Irish friend
is funnier than ever. Her further adventures are brimful of delightful humor,
and lend themselves to lovers of good readings or recitations. As a healthful
tonic, Bridget is irresistible. Don’t hesitate about seeking an introduction to
her. You’ll never regret it.
“GAMBLER’S GOLD,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT, Author of “A Rogue’s Luck,” etc.
WITH FOUR FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS.
Price, Is. Postage, Id.
Gamblers of all kinds have a place in this book —the card-player at the club, the punter at the
racecourse, and the larrikin at the two-up school. The scenes at the various places are depicted with
this author’s usual power and picturesqueness, the characters being splendidly drawn and the incidents
thrilling in the extreme. There is a description of a fight worthy of Conan Doyle; a callous murder
for which an innocent man is blamed; a night at a two-up school as vividly portrayed as on a cine-
matograph screen; and a welshing incident at the racecourse. Side by side with all this there is a
dramatic love story which ends happily.
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 476 George Street, Sydney.
ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
Music —Pictures —Boors
All are
Essential to
the Modern
Home.
§
m
All are
Essential to
the Modern
Home.
FORMERLY music was the one art most neglected in Australian homes.
To-day foreign musicians visiting these shores after an absence of
several years exclaim at the growth of musical taste in this country.
THE PIANOLA, MORE THAN ANY OTHER FACTOR, IS
MAKING US A NATION OF MUSIC LOVERS.
It is not because the Pianola merely “ Plays the Piano ” that it has
achieved such world-wide success, but because it plays so artistically —
because it allows the personality of the performer such free scope.
There were “ piano-playing machines ” before the Pianola, and scores
of them have followed upon the Pianola’s success.
But the great musicians and authorities throughout the world recognise
but one piano-player as worthy of serious attention. As Scharwenka has
said : “The real difference between the Pianola and other piano-players is
in the expression which can be given to the playing.”
And then there is the STECK PIANOLA PIANO —the piano with
the Pianola built inside its case, as shown in the illustration.
A NOTED writer on musical subjects says the STECK PIANOLA
PIANO is apt to be purchased and used at first for amusement
only. Later, it becomes a wonderful educator, with the element of
amusement left in. And the amusement is of a higher order.
You probably don’t realise now how much you miss by not understand-
ing music better. If you follow the lead of so many others, and purchase
a STECK PIANOLA PIANO, you will experience a great awakening.
Light, catchy music is well enough in its way, but it is a very small and
relatively unimportant part of musical literature.
With the facility the STECK PIANOLA PIANO offers for playing
ALL music, you and your family may soon become familiar with music of
the better class. Then you could converse intelligently about music, and
appreciate a good opera or concert when you heard it.
There are not many things that supply both culture and amusement.
Is it not time you knew more about tbe STECK PIANOLA PIANO ?
Wouldn’t it be worth your while to investigate this instrument which has given to so
many others a liberal education in music and a thorough enjoyment of the art ? Let us
send you a catalogue of the STECK PIANOLA PIANO. We will send it tiee if you
will write and ask for Catalogue C.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY, 551 George Street, Sydney
A.lso at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.


S-
/%
"You
Can
Keep
Youthful.
P.D
Every woman
knows that she is
as old as she looks.
Facial beauty may
pass w th the flight
of time, but the
figure youthful and beautiful remains when
proper care and corseting is faithfully
attended to. The famous French
Royal
“P.D.”
Rustless Corsets
are the only corsets modelled on those
principles of scientific symmetry and
resiliency which Impart the graceful lines
of beauty to the figure. Each corset model
designed to ensure the wearer sylph=like
charm of line and curve in absolute com=
fort always.
“Ask to be shown the New Season’s
Models.”
TRADE
V.T
MARK.
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling’s.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 19, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A well wrapped-up multitude turned out
to watch the unveiling of the ilopetoun
statue last Thursday; some hundreds waited
for an hour or more in the cold wind before
a vestige of gold lace appeared on the bleak
horizon. The statue, covered in flapping
eanvas, looked like a giant sheik, witn the
thin brown face peering out from the hood
and the hem of the robe flapping round thin
legs. (The legs belonged to the horse ; but,
from a distance, they looked like the thin
understandings of an Arab.) The stony
quadruped has its plot sown with grass; but
the herbage lias not yet .had time to spring,
and the pedestal rises from a bare patch of
earth surrounded by paths of new red gravel.
The stand of the unveilers was carpeted
with red and swathed with blue and gold—
lhe Ilopetoun colors. The sanctuary within
the railings was reserved for the most ele-
vated in Parliamentary circles, and the gate
was kept by a splendidly-garbed aide, held
together by a fine scarlet sash. Two rows
of galvanised soldiers acted as guard, and a
military band tried valiantly to keep the
function warm with spirited music.
The State Government House party ar-
rived in relays. First of all came Lady
Fuller, with the new Marchioness, Miss
Phipps ; and an aide. Gentleman-help Aw-
drey next arrived, with three small blue-eyed
Fullers holding somehow to his two pale-
bull' hands. The quartet circled the gravel
paths in a lost manner, and were presently
beckoned over to the stand. The entry of
Madden, C.J., with his lady and Acting-Pre-
mier Watt, provided the next excitement. At
iast, after a theatrically effective wait of
.several minutes, the band rolled forth Gor-
ave, and Governor Fuller drove up in his
astraehan collar, attended by his secretary.
The Marquis became visible about the same
time, and was tendered an impressive welcome
by all the uniforms present. He is a mascu-
line portrait of his mother, and looks about
twice the size of his late father.
The party and the crowd then stood and
politely shivered in the icy wind while
speeches were reeled off. So rude was the
blast that to the majority of the listeners
the makers of polite remarks were merely
human semaphores. Occasionally a violent
gust would attempt to do the unveiling, and
get the business over. At last the Governor
pulled the string, and everyone tried to dis-
locate his or her neck by looking straight up
at the revealed bronze, while a lowly person
at the back rolled up the discarded canvas
into a big bundle and departed.
The statue is a fine portrait of a cocked
hat and a spirited horse with a very small
Ilopetoun sandwiched between. The horse
prances on a mountainous pedestal just out-
side the gates of Federal Government House,
and snorts brazenly at the Victoria Barracks
opposite.
Colonel Campbell represented General
Hoad at the ceremony, the General being a
very sick warrior just now.
The young Marchioness of Linlithgow is
nearly as tall as her husband, and she added
to her height by wearing a long, upstanding
aigrette. Her coat was a gorgeous thing of
baby seal, with more seal in ropes round the
hem. Over it she wore a scarf of ermine
with a sable-edged stole. Lady Fuller was
also in a winter armory of furs. For this.
occasion she extracted from its camphor-bag
a full coat of sable, which enveloped her from
neck to heel. Mrs. Davy was in black, with
furs ; and the Madden lady wore soft mouse-
color squirrel.
The crowd that watched from beyond the
barriers included many of the Naicest.
Motors circled round early in the proceed-
ings, and took up points of vantage. One
stilled its throbbing heart in the gateway of
the adjacent Homoeopathic Hospital, which
flew its Red Cross flag for the occasion. Just
as the show ended the rain came down, and
the crowd dispersed under a mushroom crop
of umbrellas.
Immense preparations are being stealthily
made for the Gaud Mayoral Ball to be given
on Coronation Night. Mrs. Rumor is quite
certain that, it will be the most gorgeous
thing of its kind the Yarra villagers have ever
been bidden to. The feckless old lady fur-
thermore asserts that a daring group of
Sassiety’s youngest daughters have agreed
to take the floor arrayed in Pasha gar-
ments. She may be right this time. Cer-
tainly a leading chiff'onery is building quite
a lot of jupe-culotte dresses ; and everybody’s
newest garment is to be displayed at this
dance.
The Westralian Forrests, with two nieces,
are netrolling London in a fine new car.
Bigjohn has hardly yet recovered from the
glory of tacking up his knightly banner in
Westminster Abbey—the rite without which,
I am informed, no knight can be regarded
as a complete example to democratic dark-
ness. One of the dreams of Bigjohn’s old
age was to hang up the bit of haberdashery
in the Abbey and have it there at a Corona-
tion.
Just at present, an interesting point is
being .threshed out in the afternoon tea-
barns. A paragraph floated out from Fog-
land to the: effect that “Lady Grey-Egerton
had been commanded to appear at the Draw-
ing-room at Buckingham Palace.” This,
taken in conjunction with the news that
Queen Mary would not countenance any
person who had been through the Divorce
Court, started the crowd guessing. The
curious want to know if S’Rupert’s former
spouse has been made a shining exception
to the severe rule, or whether it was the
dowager of that name who had been bidden
to Court. The papers record the Dow-
ager's dress as being of amber silk ; but the
most painstaking cannot trace anv descrip-
tion of the younger lady’s garments. And
if no dress was there, argue the gossips, the
lady was almost sure to have been some-
where else too.
On a recent Saturday night, the Cale-
donian Society snread itself in a real Scot-
tish welcome to the Linlithgow Marquis at
the Grand Hotel. President Boyd was
host-in-chief. The clans sat down—with
a snrig of' heather beside each plate
—at 7.30, and rose some time in the sma'
hours. In the supper room, surrounded
with flags and hangings of blue and gold,
there hung a portrait of the dead Governor-
General. “We dinua forget, ye ken,” was
written below it.
The small, select council of the Bush
Nursing Association gathered last week
round a vast mahogany table in the Town
Hall council chamber. The City Council’s
cat, stretched luxuriously on the velvet pile
carpet in front of the glowing radiator, gave
a domestic flavor to the affair. Mrs. John
Madden was in the chair; and Lady Fuller,
havirfg been duly initiated, sat at her right
hand, surrounded by furs and closely attend-
ed by the cat and the radiator. Attention
was soon focussed on the Gisborne district,
where, it was pointed out, a medicine angel
was badly needed ; and, as only £5O more is
required to send one there, Gisborne will
probably soon get the nurse it wants.
A couple of kookaburras gave, a vigorous
demonstration at Wonthaggi the other even-
ing. A concert was occurring in a local hall,
and, while some youngsters were worrying
the “Kookaburra Song,” the birds woke up
on their perch outside and joined in the
chorus. The unwonted music woke up
State-Governor Fuller, who listened a mo-
ment and then joined in the chorus.
Quite a lot of Melbourne people are un-
der the impression that they have been
nearly frozen to death. One day a cross-
heading in the Herald assured them that
a thermometer outside the Weather Bureau
registered “two degrees below zero,” and ever
since then there has been a popular feeling of
icebergs in the air. “Zero” in this case was
the Herald’s definition of “freezing point” ;
the little difference of 32 degrees was, so
to speak, frozen out. It's a law of Chris-
tian Science that any citizen who sincerely
believes that he is down to zero must be
able to feel the cold accordingly; so the
Herald is responsible for an outbreak of
chilblains, blue noses, and bitter reflections
on “the weather we’ve been having.”
The first essential of chamber music, es-
pecially in winter time, is that it shall not
be freezing-chamber music, such as happened
at tlie Catnedral iiall the other night. This
was the third concert of a series arranged
by "the committee of the Lady Northcote Per-
manent Orchestra Fund,” and it started a
quarter of an hour late. The belated begin-
ning would have been forgiven if the music
had been calculated to warm the audience’s
toes. But the icy coldness of it! A bit of
Mozart by the string quartet was followed
by a Schumann quintet, with Una Bourne at
the piano. Thirty degrees added to the pre-
vailing temperature might have put the
Schumann matter in a melting mood, but,
as it was, it seemed hard musical fare. A
lot of people failed miserably in the attempt
to look truly thankful for what they had re-
ceived. And there were songs of Schubert
in the programme. Henry Thomas, whose
melodious voice deserved better opportuni-
ties, had been sentenced to sing three of
Schubert’s dullest contributions—“ The Ha-
ven,” “Angel of Beauty,” and “The Counter-
feit.” At no time of year could such things
be chosen by a singer who wanted an encore,
but Schubert is a German god among song-
writers, and Marshall-Hall, who lays down
the laws of music for the committee* seems
to be a less discriminating worshipper of
German gods than ever he was.
The bouquet of parasol dimensions has
been finally condemned ta oblivion by Bonnie
Mary of Buckingham Palace. The manager
of Drury Lane Theatre requested permission
to present the Queen with a bouquet when
she attended the “Coronation” performance
of “Money,” and the Queen sent word that a
bunch of vegetables would be graciously re-
ceived if it were “of a size that can be com-
fortably carried in the hand, as great incon-
venience is caused when a bouquet is too
large for that purpose.” Evidently King
George’s partner has suffered at times from
an unwieldy nosegay which became involved
with her trimmings. A Queen accompanied
from a theatre by floral-tribute bearers must
feel her position keenly. She is so unmis-
takably a public performer returning from
a show.
There was another inter-State knot-tying
last week at All Saints’, St. Ivilda, when
Clive Milne married Mary Cotter. The
Milnes are well-known Adelaide people, and
the bride a Melbourne girl; her mother was
a . Kennedy—which was a name to conjure
with amongst the squattocracy of 50 years
ago, and is still to the fore, though the gilt
has worn off its edges. The new Mrs. Milne,
who is a dimpled beauty, was given away by
uncle Pittendry, a Scotsman with bawbees
who has wandered out to live in ’Stralia.
The Dean of Melbourne put the questions
that are always answered ia the affirmative,
and bride and bridegroom each supplied a
sister to act as bridesmaid.
Miss Merrilies Lorrimer, the sporting
daughter of sportsman George, is to be-
come Mrs. Dudley Rand in August.
The only granddaughter of Marcus Clarke
recently had a christening. The child, who
has been called Marian Margaret, is the off-
spring of Ernest H. Clarke, third son of
the man who invented the “weird melan-
choly” of the Australian bush.
The wandering Carlyle Smythes have set-
tled down with a maid and a dog in an Ar-
cadian nest in Malvern, the suburb of roses
and State Governors.
One of the Kidman girls has been search-
ing Melbourne for trousseau flimsies for her
sister, who is shortly to marry her blue-and-
gold naval officer.
Dr. Booth and Dr. Greig, the two worn™
medicos employed on State medical inspec-
tion work, have been busy of late. The
other day there was a diptheritic outbreak
at Sebastopol, an early-mining quarter
which is now a series of deserted holes in
the ground, surrounded by a scattered and
rather careless population. Dr. Booth de-
scended upon the local school and scientifi-
cally swabbed the throats of the pupils. The
children, previous to her arrival, had been
worked up to fever pitch by the preliminary
business of measuring and weighing, and
most of them looked forward with dread
to the mysterious ordeal. They expected
some terrible medicine-man laden with a bag
of instruments of torture. Instead, there
arrived a sweet-mannered woman who
soothed them to cheerful inquisitiveness, and
soon had them swarming round her in the
friendliest way. She selected 41 imps for
treatment; and only the very last one cried
<>r '. n any way objected to the strange rite.
\\ bile Dr. Booth was busy at Sebastopol.
Dr. Greig was forestalling or killing a
measles epidemic somewhere in the hinter-
land ot Bendigo in the same easy way.
On a recent Wednesday, the Dental Stu-
dents and a lot of the established toothmen
put down the forceps and laid aside the
crown to dance painlessly with their women-
folk in the St. Hilda Town Hall. Smart
grooming seems to be a characteristic of the
craft. John Madden, C.J., was guest-in-
chief. and daughter Beatrice came along to
help with the opening set of lancers. A
round dozen of nice young debutantes twd-
stepped about the room, and not one of them
looked as if she had blossomed before. Bads
in the debutante set too often have a wilted
look; but in this instance they were fresh
from the garden. It is an unkind thought,
but it will obtrude itself —possibly the vet-
erans shun an assemblage of dentists, for
fear the toothsmiths might tell their ages
by their teeth !
Staccato remark overheard in an expen-
sive refreshmentry : “Yes, they're in London
now. And, fancy! They went to Monte
Carlo on their way, and won so much money
that they decided to go on to Nice!" And
the travelled cynic at the next table re-
marked under his breath : “Must have been
cutting it pretty fine in the matter of travel-
ing expenses. Nice is distant about one
tram-fare from the old two-up school."
If St. Judkins is looking for fresh wicked-
ness to conquer, let him attend a few
dances, heavily disguised as a wild young
man, and prowl round the supper rooms,
lie will find that Beelzebub has got into the
ices. The sweet coldness that Miss Sim-
plicity sips after a languorous waltz or a
jolly two-step nowanights is impregnated
with Drink. Absinthe and creme de nienthe
are favorite flavors; but there are others.
The Loreto Convent’s Past Students’ As-
sociation is blossoming into a big affair.
Amongst the members are several well-
known musicians, and they will make mel-
ody at the Austral Salon, on June 27,
when the Association meets for refreshment,
music and gossip.
Manager Wenman is back from skyrocket-
ing round New York, London, and other
places, with “The Chocolate Soldier’’ in his
suit-case. The stage general is a great
barracker for the intelligence of the Austra-
lian gallery. (The rest of the house he
reckons is practically the same everywhere.)
“Our gallery beats the band for sense,” he
remarks emphatically.
The key symbolising the “freedom” of
Malvern, which was presented lately to
Governor Fuller, was a costly bit of jewel-
ler’s work. It was of graven gold with a
big, “black” Queensland opal set in its
handle. In ordering the gew-gaw, at the
ratepayers’ expense, the local council no
doubt reckoned that it was doing itself
proud.
My Adelaide correspondent writes -
i South Australia has for many years been proud
of its Grand Old Woman. Catherine Helen Spence,
and a committee has been formed to establish
some memorial to her and her work. Various
suggestions boiled down to the double-barrelled
ope of a portrait in the Art Gallery and a Univer-
sity Scholarship. . Editor Sowden, of the Regis-
ter, is president .of the committee, and Mrs.
Young i 3 secretary. Both were closely associated
with Miss Spence in her work, and may lie de-
pended upon to throw life into the hunt for sub-
scriptions.
The country golf clubs celebrated the close of
their “week” by presenting Herbert Rymill (ex-
secretary of the Adelaide Golf Club) with some
silver goods. Dr. Smith, of Clare, handed over
the parcel, with various well-chosen words anent
the recipient’s kindness to the country players
while they were in town.
Dr. Formby, of Strathalbvn, was married a few
days back to Miss Reinecke; and Clive Milne un-
dertook the housing of Miss Cotter, of Melbourne,
The Milne-Cotter blossoming really happened in
Melbourne, but for all> that we' regard it as our
affair. Westralian letters bring news of the mar-
riage of one of the late Canon Field’s daughters
to Sam Phillips, also an Adelaide “boy.”
The early runs of the' Adelaide Hunt Club have
been responsible for the appearance of some new
horses, and the club seems to have entered a very
good season. The number of “followers” is increas-
ing, especially in the feminine contingent, which
mostly, rides astride.
Amongst; others the Malwa took away Registrar
Hodge, of the University. The ’Varsity has given
him six months’ leave of absence and a purse of
sovereigns. In handing out the latter Dr. Stir-
ling said things which were as appreciative as they
were true.
Adelaide is opening a big thing in hotels this
week. The site is that of the old York. The Grand
Central, as it is to be called, has 100 bedrooms, will
take' 150 guests, can seat 600 in the dining-room,
and is fixing up a roof garden so big that a tennis-
court will be merely one feature in the landscape,
so to speak. The place is built round a great glass-
roofed fernery-lounge. The York used to be Ade-
laide’s fashionable hotel, but the South Australian
and the Gresham, being close to rail, Parliament
House and the Theatre, remodelled themselves and
took top place. Lately Foy and Gibson have built
a great drapery emporium close by, and now they
have dovetailed the hotel on to it, the whole making
easily the biggest pile in Adelaide, with a dome
challenging that of the Exhibition. The street front-
age is largely cut into by drapery show-windows.
Great is the power of man’s Beer and woman’s Chif-
fons in alliance!
Rowing men who journeyed here for the inter-State
’Varsity boat-race, can’t have acquired a flattering no-
tion of our waterways. On the day fixed for the
race three shivering crews and a few frozen enthusi-
asts congregated on the banks of the Port River, and
found that amiable stream a seething maelstrom.
After some vituperation of the howling wind and
rain, the race was declared “off,” and, that being so,
the evening dinner was also “off,” for custom de-
mands that the winning crew shall be the hosts, and
there was no winning crew. The oarsmen finally
trailed over the course on Monday. Melbourne
reached the end first, and Adelaide last.
The University Sports Association gave its annual
ball on Thursday night. The fixture is always
hailed with joy by debutantes, and 34 were there
this year. In the past the dance has been held in
the Elder Conservatorium, the best hall this city
boasts for such a purpose; but the Public Enter-
tainments Act stepped in and said that if it hap-
pened again the hall must consider itself a place of
public entertainment, and take out a license. So
the committee fled to the Unley Town Hall, decked
it with scarlet poppies, and entertained their guests
—including the vice-regalities—there.
Inspectors are still investigating food-shops, and
their discoveries are depressing, to put it mildly.
Stables, fowl-yards, food and rats seem inextricably
intermingled, and citizens who live in the districts
concerned are either buying supplies from some un-
exDlored (and, therefore, possibly safe) quarter, or
following in Mr. O’Malley’s footsteps. The dailies
are supplied -in full with disgusting details, but
names are suppressed so that, literally, one nowadays
buys one’s pig in a poke.
The winter racing reason began on Saturday,
with the Cheltenham ■ meeting. It’S • a ' gathering
which only attracts the most sporting of females, and
Saturday, with its cheerless wet and cold, issued
no special invitation to anyone to tramp on wet
lawns. The A.H.C. finished its run on the course,
and the red coats struck the only color note worth
mentioning. . What femininity was there was firmly
garbed in dull and serviceable tweeds.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
Captain J. F. Anderson, who formerly
commanded the Orient liner Austral, died a
few days ago. Financially he was reputed
to be one of the “strongest" mariners who
ever paddled in these waters, getting his
start from lucky Mount Lyell speculations;
so a life on the ocean wave had long since
ceased to have any attractions for him.
The Argus ought to he more careful.
For years and years it sobbed that, if the
wicked Labor party was given power, Capi-
tal would he driven out of the country by
Socialistic legislation. Lately, ir has been
lamenting the growth of Collectivism, and
showing incidentally that there ready isn't
anywhere for Capital to fly to. “The
American cities." il walls, “have completely
thrown over the individualistic creed which
was once the strength of the American
nation. They look closely after the health
of their citizens. They inspect their food
and drink. They watjch over their homes
to see that they have enough light, air and
space, and that the sanitary conditions are
as they should he." It is all dreadful;
still the Argus is consoled with the thought
that "the pendulum will swing hack again,"
whereupon the Argus will no doubt he quite
happy in contemplating dirt, squalor, had
air and insanitary conditions once more.
“Dun Ilrown": Why all this persistent
fuss about tlu- remark of the Scotch Com-
missioner that “nowhere had he noticed such
intense antagonism between employed and
employer, and rive versa, as in Australia” !
It was merely the truth. The Commission-
ers during their stay in Australia spent
their time in the company of employers.
They did not'hobnob with Billjim, or sleep
in the men’s quarters. They were at "tin-
house” all the time. And they spoke of
the feelings they saw and heard expressed.
I have been in many countries, hut in none
of them have I heard employers use expres-
sions so heavily loaded .with hatred
of the laboring classes. Judging by
their language, Australian employers in the
.mass have no respect for those they employ;
nevertheless, they are continually lamenting
the lack of respect among those they employ.
If you find the units of an arniy ill-dis-
ciplined and disrespectful towards ' the offi-
cers, whom do you blame? I know
whom the G.O.C. will blame —the offi-
cers. Of course the Scotch Commissioner,
having been the guest of a score or more
employers, could hardly throw mud on their
beards; so he contented himself with de-
scribing the true state of affairs, and said
nothing about which party it is that waters
its antagonism and gets up early to spread
fertiliser around it.


M
4
V
o
w
y
mm
'
■ *
El m
" -
■ J
■-C:
Vm**
EE El
■¥
¥
i : :;.
¥
¥
¥
¥
3K
m
93
m
THAT round label on the Chateau Tanunda Brandy bottle is
insignificant enough in appearance, but it has a significant
qpeaning.
Placed there by the Commonwealth Government, it proves, first,
and most important of all, that Chateau Tanunda Brandy is a
PURE AUSTRALIAN STANDARD GRAPE BRANDY.
In these days, when doctors are protesting so vigorously against
the use of raw, fiery alcohols distilled from improper materials, it is
important to know that CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY is a
STIMULANT ABOVE SUSPlClON—guaranteed so by the
Government.
Before this label is affixed to the bottle, the Customs officers
have to be satisfied that the contents have been —
U Distilled WHOLLY FROM GRAPE WINE by a pot
still, or similar process, at a strength not exceeding 40
per cent, overproof.
2. Matured by STORAGE IN WOOD for a period of NOT
LESS THAN TWO YEARS.
3. Certified by the Commonwealth officer to be PURE
BRANDY.
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED.
ir 11
CHATEAU TAf«UNOA LIMITtO


Barked. Tour Shins?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the pain and stiffness, and you will
forget all about it. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
NOT ENOUGH BLOOD
TO KEEP GOING.
This Woman Fell away to a
Shadow*
Weak and Miserable; Heart
Palpitation, Headaches, In-
digestion; Cured by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
How good Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are in
cases of Anaemia or bloodlessness is shown
in the case of Mrs. M. Bell, 43 Belmore-
street, St. Peters, Sydney. She was typi-
cally anaemic, and had all the worst symp-
toms. She was attended by doctors but
obtained no benefit and continued to suffer
for years. Mrs. Bell says that Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills increased her blood supply
and quite cured her. The following state-
ment was made by Mrs. Bell: —
“I showed signs of anaemia at about four-
teen. My appetite failed completely. All
my strength and brightness ebbed away.
My flesh wasted till I was terribly thin.
My. blood was so watery that my lips and
cheeks and gums were like chalk. The veins
would not bleed at all if I cut my finger. My
feet and hands were always cold and
clammy. My ankles and wrists would puff
no very much. My head would ache so
distractingly, I had to get glasses, as my
eves were affected. I would feel utterly
done up all the time; I took no pleasure or
interest in anything. I dare not walk
quickly for my breath would go and my
heart would thump so furiously. I rarely
got a good night’s rest; I would just toss
about for hours and wake up after a doze
quite unfit to get through the day. The
doctor said I was anaemic, and I had a
good deal of advice and medicine, but found
no benefit whatever. I remained in this
state for some years. It was not till I
tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that my
health came back. Some days I could not
keep my food down, and in any case I never
relished it. It had no taste to me unless it
had an acid flavor. I would get such queer
faint turns too, as if I was about to swoon.
I would long to sit about all day, and not
lift a finger. I started taking three pills a
day, as my mother, who had been cured of
Rheumatism by them, begged me to try
them, and after a few doses I fancied I was
a little brighter. My mother got some
more, and presently I could feel my strength
returning. I began to look forward to meal
time. My blood began to turn richer and
the color tinged my lips and face and showed
in my eyelids. The headaches yielded and
I took an interest in what was going on
around me. I began to fill out and in time
every symptom wore away.”
Remember, only the genuine Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into
taking something said to be just as good.
Of all dealers at 2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes
15s. 3d., or from the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
jtnamM
A rupture is
not improved
by wearing a
bad Truss —
the Truss
must fit ex-
actly and give
proper sup-
port, as Den-
ver’s Special
Elastic Truss
does. This
denyer
©
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
Truss is a true safeguard and perfectly comfortable.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
ati Melbourne, corner Swanston & Lonsdale Srs.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Senator McGregor, Acting-Minister of De-
fence, has found it necessary to give a hint
to some patriots he has met lately. His de-
partment, having asked a number of munici-
pal councils for the use of halls, rooms or
reserves for drilling cadets, was given cheer-
ful permission in most cases ; but in a few
the huckstering spirit was so strong that
they demanded rent for the usfe of the people’s
property by the people. In such instances,
McGregor has now gently intimated that the
Federal Government has full powers to take
any land it needs for defence purposes, and
if these bodies are too —-er —thrifty, it may
have to annex a shire hall or a public park
bodily.
THE STATE MEMBERS' TOPHET-
MUSICAL CHAIRS.
The Right Thinking person usually holds
it as a self-evident proposition that no coun-
try can prosper unless it takes as its wedded
wife a High Court sufficiently strong to de-
clare the voice of the people from time to
time bogus and invalid. Mr. P. Ilinderprise
goes further, and maintains that, unless a
Democracy is shackled by the decisions of a
substantially non-representative body, the
country will slowly subside beneath Pacific
waves. Yet Switzerland still remains as
much as 15,000 ft. above higb-water mark, in
spite of the fact that Lloyd and Hobson
(“Swiss Democracy”) find room for these
remarks regarding the Swiss High Court: —
Not merely are its members elected by the Fed-
eral Assembly for a period of six years only, but
tile Assembly has severely circumscribed its juris-
diction, removing from its purview a large list of
subjects relating to the administration of Federal
laws, especially those dealing with commerce, edu-
cation and finance. The Federal Tribunal, being
bound by the Constitution to administer every Act
passed by the Federal Assembly, or popular vote,
is precluded from declaring any Act to be uncon-
stitutional. The competency of the Assembly and
tlie people to pass and enforce laws is absolute.
Despite this dreadful state of affairs, Swit-
zerland still provides P. Hinderprise with
three square meals and a decent bed, and the
subsidence of the Republic isn’t noticeable
as .vet.
A CHILBLAIN CURE.
Mr. R. W. Jones, storekeeper, Carrum, Vic., says
that Chamberlain’s Pain Balm cured his chilblains
and wants everyone to know it. “I had one chil-
blain on my foot that was so big that I could not
wear my boot. In fact I could only wear my slipper
by slitting it along the front. I used Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm one night, and the next day was agree-
ably surprised to find that I could wear my boot
With comfort.”*
The S. Aus. Government is thinking about
State brickworks. There is a local “horrible
understanding” in the brick trade, and prices
for the limited output are so shocking that
the Government’s patience is just about ex-
hausted. The State has numerous buildings
in hand, so there would be plenty of orders
for the works to go on with.
At Brighton (Vic.), where Snowball of
Orange holds the fort for Conservatism, the
price of milk has been raised from 4d. to sd.
per quart, on the strength of an advance in
carters’ wages. Now, the milk-deliverers are
only benefiting to the tune of about lOd. a
day; a small daily delivery is 100 quarts;
and IOOd. is Bs. 4d. Thus the advance in
carters’ wages puts lOd. into the pocket of
the carter, and the boss-vendor grabs the
chance to put the other 7s. 6d. into his own
pocket. Then he sits down and writes a
letter to the Argus deploring the dreadful
greed of the working classes of Australia.
Yass and Queanbeyan are the census dis-
tricts within the alleged Paradise chosen
as the site of the Federal Capital of Aus-
tralia ; and some idea of the attractiveness of
the Eden can be dug out of the fact that
the population of Queanbeyan and district has
actually shrivelled 6 per cent, in the past 10
years, while Yass has only managed to put
on 2 per cent. Either Queanbeyan and
Yass have left off having young Australians,
or the young Australians who arrived earlier
have reckoned, after practical experience,
that Kink O’Malley’s enchanted garden is
a good patch for some other, greener person
to try to cultivate.
The suburban council of Essendon (Vic.)
has taken a step towards a Greater Mel-
bourne, by asking other councils to
a conference which should arrange the
creation of a central body to con-
trol matters relating to water supply,
fire extinction, sewerage, lighting, tram-
ways, etc. Unfortunately, Melbourne’s
stodgy City Council has the perverted idea
that it is the wheel and the others mere flies,
and its one idea is absorption. Concerted
action on the part of the suburban councils
could, however, shift even the city aider-
men, fat and heavy though they mostly are.
“Noman”: A few days ago I was in the
Bank of New Zealand, here in Queen-street,
Auckland. A lad was paying in money. The
teller tossed back a sixpence. “Can’t take
that—it’s an Australian sixpence. Tell your
boss, he will understand.” When the lad had
gone, I inquired: “Don’t you take Aus-
tralian silver?” “No,” he said, and added
that all the business firms, the Railway De-
partment, and the tram officials had decided
not to take the stuff. Next day I saw a man
tender an Australian florin to a tram conduc-
tor, who promptly refused to take it. It
seems this is Maoriland’s retaliation for not
being granted certain concessions in the cir-
culation of the Australian silver; and if
that’s so, it’s up to Andrew Fisher and lou
Ward to have a “pitch” about it on the way
back from the royal millinery parade, and
arrange matters. The present piffling ar-
rangement, besides causing heaps of annoy-
ance, is liable to earn for both peoples the
ridicule of Zulus, Choctaws and other com-
paratively civilised people.
There never was such an utterly incom-
petent prophet as the modern Fatman. But
a little over a
year ago he was
declaring that
the advent of a
Labor Adminis-
tration would
capsize industry,
stop all progress,
and drive capital
out of the coun-
try. To-day he
is pouring out
lamentations be-
cause the supply
of labor is quite
unequal to the
demand, and his
factor ies are
rushed with or-
ders that they
cannot fill, and
business is so
good that he
would cheerfully
open more if he
could be certain
of getting enough
labor. Yet, though
he has thus been
proved once more to be a hopeless wrong-
thinker, he gets quite annoyed if he isn’t
referred to as the right-thinking person.
The McGowen Cabinet is threatened with
trouble over the Conversion of Land Tenures
Bill which it promised in the Governor’s
Speech. David Storey’s Independent party
has hinted at its active hostility, and one or
two at least of the country Labor members
are alleged to be wavering. It looks as
though the Government will quietly shelve the
measure, and it looks more like that because
the Minister for Lands has introduced his
Declaratory Land Bill, which is to pave the
way for the Land Acts Consolidation Bill.
It would clearly be putting the cart before
the quadruped to consolidate the laws relat-
ing to land tenure first and introduce the
Conversion Bill, repealing a lot of the Con-
solidated Acts, second.
The workers’ rep. in the Westralian Arbi-
tration Court lately mentioned one more
beautiful result of State Frights—which
some foolish people mistake for Home Rule.
The State has an Arbitration Act, but it has
been de-horned and de-hooved and dis-em-
bowelled by the law courts, on appeal, until
little of the original animal remains, and it
is hard to say exactly what the remnant
stands for. The Act has never been con-
sidered by the Australian High Court, and
the law which governs the Westralian Su-
preme Court is the law laid down by the
High Court while interpreting some dis-
carded N.S.W. legislation. The result, as
the workers’ rep. put it, is that “although
we are supposed to be working with a living
Act passed by our own Parliament, we are
subject at all times to a N.S.W. law, and a
dead law at that.” In other words, the
Westralian workers have to fight not only
the Tories in their own Parliament, but the
Tories in the N.S.W. Parliament as well.
No wonder the Westralian workers carried
the Referenda, and want a uniform indus-
trial law throughout the Commonwealth.
The Irish envoys are getting good cash re-
sults in Maoriland. Subscriptions were well
ahead of the 1 >evlin-Donovan total before
half the Dominion was stumped. The present
crusade has brought out from the tall grass
and manuka scrub quite a host of unsus-
pected sympathisers. Home Rule is now
supposed to be a winning ticket, and there is
the usual rush to be on the favorite. The
dividend is expected to be drawn from the
good graces of the prosperous and influential
O’Gormans, O’Hagans, and O’Anythings.
A GOVERNMENT HOUSE TO THE
ACRE.
The Sydney press is horrified at the suggestion
that the' Governor-General, when travelling outside
the Federal capital area, should engage apartments
at hotels.
Impressive Person : “Go away, boy. I'm
not a circus agent. I'm advance-builder to
His Excellency, and these represent the
sites of vice-regal domiciles erected, or to be
erected, for His Excellency."
The census papers have had their first
overhaul, and, according to the preliminary
count, the Ma State has 1217 people for
every 1000 it had 10 years ago. The de-
plorable part of the business is that the big
increase is in the bloated metropolis. Out-
side the suburbs the' only three districts
which hav-e gained any population to speak
of are the North Coast, where the Cow
calls; part of the Riverina, where t;he
big squatter has been moved on by the
wheat cocky; and the Maitland coalfield,
whither some of the barons have gone, after
rooting out the handiest of the combustible
mineral at Newcastle. In numerous old-
established districts, like Bathurst, Orange
and the South Coast, there are actually
fewer people than there were 10 years ago.
These are the parts where the grip of the
big land-grabber hasn’t been relaxed; and in
most cases he will have to be hit by some-
thing heavier than the present land tax be-
fore he will let go.
The Greater Sydney movement got a
further lift last week when another subur-
ban council —the one that looks after the
perfumes of Botany—signed a 10 years’ con-
tract with the Sydney City Council for elec-
tric light and power. Botany has hitherto
got its public lighting from the Gas, Co., but
it figures out that it can save money by
patronising works that don’t need to make
15 per cent, dividends for shareholders, and
it also gets an undertaking that, while it
will never be charged more than the price
now agreed upon, it shall be given the bene-
fit of any reductions that the City Council
may see its way clear to make. And when
a few more municipalities come in to share
administration and other expenses, and the
cost creeps down lower and lower, even the
Right Thinking propputy-owner will begin
to see virtues in the union of the present
municipalities, if only on strictly business
grounds.
Judging by his recent remarks, Captain
Chambers, the imported expert who is to
boss the Commonwealth’s Naval College,
isn’t likely to be offered a staff job by the
Sydney papers:—
I am of opinion that a naval college should not be
close to a great city. In England the two great
naval colleges are removed from city influences. The
one at Osborne, in the Isle of Wight, is situated at
least a mile from the tiny Old World town of
Cowes, which, for the greatest part of the year, is
dead. The other is at Dartmouth, alongside miles of
uncultivated land.
That was one barrel for the Congesters, who
want the Commonwealth’s naval establish-
ment —lock, stock and barrel —placed in Syd-
ney, to go on with. Captain Chambers didn’t
give the Congesters the other, probably be-
cause it wasn’t his business — viz., that Bri-
tain, which carefully keeps its naval cadets
in the background, also keeps its naval sta-
tions in the same place, as far as possible.
At all events, it doesn’t moor them to the
gangway of its chief commercial city.
The anti-Labor (which is always the anti-
Federal) crowd continues to heave bricks at
the Government for its “mismanagement” in
closing the post offices at 6 p.m., which, any-
way, is three hours later than Private Enter-
prise keeps open its banks and insurance
offices. The most recent clod came from the
municipal council of Oakleigh (Vic.) ; and
when it had arrived, P.G.M. Thomas gently
passed Oakleigh a memo, showing that in. the
fortnight preceding the early-closing edict
an average of five-twelfths of a telegram had
been lodged per night at the local post-office,
and an average of lfd. had been received.
During the same period only one telegram
was lodged for despatch b'tween 6 and
7 p.m. After which, it was scarcely
necessary for him to add that he wasn’t
going to keep any office open for a suburb that
had a rush of business like that —it would
be cruelty to the staff.
On present appearances, there is going to
be a fight in the South Aus. Assembly next
session over the new railway offices. Pre-
mier Verran wants to put them behind the
city baths ; and other members of the Labor
party, led by architect T. H. Sineaton,
mean to stop him. If the new offices are put
where Verran wants them, they will block
the extension of the present railway system,
eastward. Adelaide trains all run into a
dead end, and there is no escape for the en-
gines that bring a train in until another
comes along and drags them out again.
Some day the lines may be taken past the
present station; but if Verran’s short-sighted
ideas are carried out, they will only be able
to do it by climbing or boring.
PATRIOTIC SONGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Coronation Pageant of Empire all the
best patriotic English songs are to be sung, as well
us the National Anthem. — News Item.
Samples of popular variants appended hereto. — Me.
When England first, at Heaven’s command,
(I don’t think)
Arose from out the azure main,
(It never did, but we must stand for that dashed
perjury again)
Fool Britannia, that empty comfort craves;
Britain, ever, ever, ever sweats the slaves.
(Oh! the East Londoners with the cliilblained
faces.)
Britannia has no bulwarks,
No castles on her steep,
For Cobden gave her trade away,
And Justice fell asleep;
But Noise may save a nation
As it ruined Jericho!
And the starving creep through Starvation’s deep,
While the windy Jingoes blow.
(That is the law of national indigestion —the
poor are empty, and the rich flatulent.)
Another one!
Sons of the slum, all British born,
Starving British workmen out, and laughing
them to scorn ;
France has crowded factories,
And thinks it knows the game,
But they can’t drink beer,
Like us boys here,
Who add to England’s shame.
Finalmente!
God help our gracious King,
Let’s give him everything,
God help the King!
While we, with stomach cramp,
Sleeping in fog and damp,
Starve, crown our Rubber Stamp!
God save the King!
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE LEANER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lifter and the leaner sat,
And talked concerning this and that. . . .
“And so,” the lifter said, “we’re all
Lifters or leaners, great or small.”
The leaner, in the corner-seat,
With shiny shoes upon his feet,
And fancy-work across his vest,
Giggled and guffawed: “Leaning’s best.”
“Lifters?” he burbled, scornfully—•
“They work for men with brains, like me.”
He sucked his stout cigar, and sniffed:
“1 lean! It is the fools who lift!”
The train proceeded on its way;
The lifter raised his voice to slay
The leaner’s fatted self-regard
With facts and logic by the yard.
Yet, ere he spoke, the leaner went
Red in the face and wildly rent
His morning sheet in pieces twain,
And cast the fragments from the train.
“Monstrous!” he puffed tremendously.
“Another filthy tax on me ! —
Taking away me lawful rights—
Loafers!” he howled, “and parasites!”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


s he BECHSTEIN PIANOS
/
f”
Lovii^v
RHWO
rn
&
%
£
W-
Urf
N
v_
L/
V
U
are used by all the great pianists of the
present day—no other piano can fully
satisfy their requirements.
Their Tone Quality is Perfect.
JOSEF HOFFHANN writes of them :
“The Bechstein Piano pos-
sesses greater poetry of tone,
and resembles the human voice
more than any other instru-
ment. It is the realisation of
my idea of a piano, and the
only one on which 1 can express
all 1 feel.”
MADAME CARRENO writes: —
“The Bechstein Piano is the
ideal of perfection, and, above
• all other instruments, responds
to all demands of an artist.”
We stock these magnificent Pianos in both Grands and Uprights, and invite you to call
and inspect them, or to write for full particulars. & Catalogues are Free for the asking.
SOLE AGENTS-
W. H. PALING CO., LTD
•9
And at Brisbane,
Newcastle and Toowoomba.
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
You Will Meet Her Here, There
and Everywhere
The Kabo Girl
fa
'•V*
t
%
m
m
®\
✓
Guaranteed
Proof Against
Rust.
America’s
Latest
Production.
MbctfcMh
HAVE NO bRASS EYELETS
MAKE. HAPPY FIGURES
“ KABO ” stands for the most widely diverse and original collection of Corset Style Models.
YOUR form will leap into greater beatity when you wear a Kabo Corset—America’s latest produc-
tion. Guaranteed proof against rust. Famous for .heir system of Loop Lacing.
ALL LEADING DRAPERS.
not from YOURS, write KABO CORSET CO., Box 24
(Colonial Office), Melbourne; or Box 906, G.P.0., Sydney.
ft
■
i
FASHIONABLE
DRESSERS
FAVOR
FARMER’S
TAILORING.
SMART
BUSINESS
SUITS from
FARMER’S tailoring perfection has been built up by careful attention to
every minute detail. To-day Sydney’s smartest dressers rely upon
Farmer’s for the newest innovations and faultless workmanship. The
lightest word in Fashion’s decree is obeyed by our expert cutter, and
carried out to perfection. Nothing but the best tailoring is ever found in
Farmer’s suits. They are made in our Pitt Street workrooms by expert tailors
under the personal supervision of skilled cutters. Each suit possesses the wear-
ing qualities you expect from good tailoring, and will retain its shapeliness to
the end. >
One of the most favored materials for the winter is a rough Marine Serge,
pure indigo dye, being warm and seasonable.
SUITS to Order in this Material
FROM
63/-
In addition we have a wide range of New Season’s Suitings, including
Harris, Bannockburn and Blarney Tweeds, Australian Tweeds
and English Worsteds.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
First Quality Aerated Waters Made at 3d. per doz.
EASILY, QUICKLY, ECONOMICALLY.
THE “BANKER,”
A Money Maker for Hotelkeepers. Easy to Buy.
£lO Deposit secures delivery with an expert to
erect same. A few pounds a month pays the balance.
PRICE FROM £.25.
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO., LTD.,
167 George Street (North), SYDNEY.
HEAP, Second-Hand 15 BrakeH.P.
w TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
WE PAY £1 for Black and White
Comic Sketches accepted. No hack-
neyed topics wanted, but bright, clean humor.
Handiest sizes about deep by 3in. wide, or
6in. wide by 4m. deep. Rejections promptly
returned. Editor:
“ AUSTRALASIAN TRAVELLER,”
189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appoiritment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVAT(VES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Frank Thorn v. Bill Elliott, a Sydney-
sider, was a profitable battle of “feathers” at Melb.
Athletic Club’s room last week. Thorn had several
pounds in bone and thew to the good, and came out
(in top despite Elliott’s marked cleverness. The
Scrap went the full 60 minutes, exclusive of inter-
vals, and Thorn made his little pile of points in the
earlier stages. Elliott did not lose a too-great re-
spect for his enemy till 15 rounds had gone. After
that he broke loose, and began to wade in, letting
fly both hands with uncommon smartness; but his
spurt of audacity had come too late. He was easily
the top tyke in the last two, and pasted Thorn
gaily, without evening up on Thorn’s well-earned
increment. Thorn was thus declared the winner, on
points. This judgment should be reversed when
Elliott gets at him again, if William learns wisdom
by experiments.
Broke or not broke, champion pug John-
son managed to arrive safely in one piece in London,
and got into print immediately. His first effort on
arrival was to rig himself out in a frock-coat and
tall hat. Then, as usual, he found himself in-
side a huge new “buzz-cart,” as the learned stousher
calls motor-ears. He got loose down Whitechapel
way, and that was where he struck trouble in the
shape of two other vehicles. The affair developed
into a large-sized smash ; but the coon kept cool, and
remarked to the man in blue who took the names:
“I wasn’t speeding, but I guess my, reputation must
have travelled ahead of me.” Meantime there is
nothing definite about future fight-engagements.
* * * *
Clarence Weber, when refereeing a wrest-
ling match between Ryugoro Shima, who played jiu-
jitsu, and a Scotchman who played catch-as-catehee-
can, said he would tussle with the winner. There
was only one throw, and the Jap secured it with a
strangle hold. Now Clarence and Ryugoro are hag-
gling over the boodle, Clarence asking for a bigger
share of the gate because he is' the draw. “Not on
your life,” snarls Ryugoro ; “I’m just as big a draw
as you, any time. Let the winner of the match take
the lion’s share of the money—that’s good enough
for me.” And, certainly, it’s fair enough also.
The well-known S’African buiser, Arthur
Douglas, scored a decisive victory over Sydney Sulli-
van last week. Three days later he was in Sydney
Hospital, minus his appendix, and holering between
life and death.
Saturday afternoon in Sydney was, if any-
thing, on the warm side for football; but that, any-
how, was a welcome change. In the Rugby League
Competition, which is noted for the surprises it
springs on the cocksure propliet-barrackers, the re-
sults were in order on form, and the prophets were
jubilant. At the Agricultural Ground, before a
crowd of 5000, South Sydney unwound a back
machine which rolled over Balmain in the last half
like a juggernaut. The game up to half-time prom-
ised to be close, as there was only a difference of
one point in the scores, South leading by 6 to 5.
But evidently the Southern brand is the better, for
in the last ’ 40 minutes the men from the dusty
suburbs rattled up 18 points, while Balmain in
great travail added only five, so the game finished
with South on top—24 to 10. Eastern and
Western Suburbs had a mild encounter at the Sports
Ground, before a fair crowd, and the Orientals
proved too good by seven points —22 to 15. Mes-
senger the Marvellous, as usual, was the star, and
was well supported by Frawley on the winning
side, while Courtney made a mighty stand on the
side of defeat. Newtown, at Metters’s Ground,
did prettv well as it liked with North Sydney.
Shortly after the start Morton booted a goal for
Norths; but it was their only score, and the board
at the finish showed Newtown 15, North Sydney
2 The Glebe-Annandale collision happened at
Wentworth Park, where the red-garbed Glebeites
got home with 19 points to 10. Things were
t'airlv even till the last 20 minutes, and then the
’Balers just crumpled right up. All the same, An-
namlale, the baby team, is much improved, and it
is going to make a mark somewhere soon.
Union Rugby meandered on its way, and
as usual, was watched by the younger brother and the
maiden aunt of the players. But the aunt seems to
fetch along a niece now and again, and a young man
conies along after the niece occasionally. So thingi
are not looking altogether hopeless. The chief bump
on Saturday was between Glebe and Newtown at
University Oval. Up to half-time it looked like a
cakewalk for Newtown, which ended the first lesson
with eight to the good. Then Glebe pulled itself to-
gether, oiled its machinery, primed itself and went off
bang. It piled up nine points without having a soli-
tary one scored against it; and Newtown, the pre-
mier club last season, was thus pipped on the post
by one point—l 2 to 11. At Sydney Cricket Ground,
Western Suburbs let loose on the gentlemen from
St. George, and the Saints were humiliated by 27 to
5. An awful smashing at Union Rugby! University
and North Sydney had a desperate struggle at North
Sydney’s Oval, and out of the fray the battered and
broken Uni. crept with a lead of two points—l 4 to
12.' Manly met Eastern Suburbs at Rushcutters Bay,
and belted it fairly heavily, winning by 8 to 3.
South Sydney managed to score its second win during
the season at the expense of Balmain —14 points to 5.
In the League competition South Sydney
is still on top with 11 competition points, but it is
hard pressed by Glebe with 10. Newtown has nine,
and Eastern Suburbs eight. The Jonah club this
season is Balmain, which has lost the whole six
matches played. In the Union competition, Univer-
sity is top with 12 points, and Western Suburbs and
Manly are close behind with 11 each. Newtown has
10, and below that are all single figures, which are
uninteresting.
* * * *
Soccer football is spread out in Sydney
these days, and no less than three practically first-
grade competitions are being played off simultane-
ously. There are the Rawson Cup, the Association
Cup, and the Gardiner Cup. In the struggle for the
memento of old Bluff Harry, the well-beloved,
H.M.S. Powerful is on top with 10 points, the
nearest rival being Balmain with eight. In the
Association Cup contest Balmain leads with nine
points, and West Sydney is second with eight. As
for the Gardiner Cup—the Lord knows how it stands,
but the team from the Pahf’l seems to have a lien on
that utensil too,.
* * * *
Details of the football carnival to be held
in Adelaide in August have been fixed up. S.A. votes
towards the expenses £235, Victoria, £175; Tas-
mania, £265; Westralia, £350; total, £1025.
These votes will be a first ■ charge on the gate re-
ceipts, naturally. The carnival will be opened by
his Ex. of S.A. on August 2, when Victoria will play
N.S.W., and 1 after that State teams will encounter
State teams till August 12. It will be a magnificent
10 days—an all-Australian football Armageddon, for
the supremacy of the continent.
In the League scrimmage on Saturday
“the same old” Essendon came to grief at the feet
of South Melbourne, which kicked up 44 points to
41. It wasn’t an overwhelming victory, but, like the
sword-gash, it was enough. Carlton,
which won with difficulty from ’Wood last week, on
Saturday had a fairly soft thing in Melbourne, and
walked out a comfortable winner by 89 points to
56. The spectacle of Geelong scoring 72 to Univer-
sity’s 60 filled the crowds with wonder. Collingwood
succeeded in bringing off the “ ’Wood finish” against
St. Kilda —85 to 32; and Fitzroy upset Richmond
by 38 points to 36 —which was cutting things fairly
fine, and suggests that an accident either way would
have made history.
In t.h% Association rumpus Essendon was
in luck, and downed North Melbourne , by 72 points
to 44. P ? ran by 108 squelched Preston, which could
tot up only a poor little 48, though even that is more
than one expects from Preston nowadays. Footseray
and Port Melbourne were both blushing violets that
did not desire to do anything startling, and the gentle
little game came to an end with ’Scray on top—-54
to 33. Northcote smashed, up Williamstown with
48 to 32, and Brunswick Annihilated Brighton with
77 to 11. Mention it not in Gath, and forget the
horrible affair as quickly as possible.
* * * *
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association will again
wrestle with the question Of Sunday tennis,
and the members are summoned next week to once
more decide whether “Sunday practice” shall be
allowed or not on Double Bay courts. The Asso-
ciation is in a very rocky state financially, and it
is believed that the opening of the courts on the
Sabbath will result in a rush of new members. The
alternative is a visit to a Christian gentleman who
lends his own money, with liquidation to follow.
South Africa dropped out of the Davis
Cup lawn tennis argument last week, and thereby
cleared the way for the match between England and
America to see who incurs the expense of the long
trip to Maoriland, at the end of the year. If Aus-
tralasia pulls off the Cup this time it will possibly
have to place it in care of uncle, as the roaring from
beyond .the seas is a certain indication that the
othersiders are getting 1 tired of doing all the trav-
elling, and are beginning to feel that it is a long
way to come to get licked.
* * * *
In spite of the war of extermination de-
clared by the League of AVheelmen, the Victorian
Cyclists’ Union continues to make headway. It has
just completed its second year, during which its
membership rose from 50 to 480, and over. £4OO has
been paid away in ; prize-money. The Union is now
breaking into the attractive domain of road-racing,
and will make its maiden effort on July 1, over the
50 miles between Geelong and Melbourne; and on
September 2 there will be a 100-mile run from Ben-
digo to Melbourne. The committee announces that,
although a rebel body, its discipline is of the sever-
est, and evildoers will be wiped out mercilessly; The
Union’s remarkable progress shows that the League
must indeed have lost its punch.
The weather fined up for the June
meeting of the V.A.T.C. at Caulfield on Satur-
dav • but there was no luck about the course,
and ’ the going: was still heavy after the re-
cent rains. The opening event was the loolambool
Hurdle Race, for which eight went out, and the
public socked its money on Bob Gilder. Patrick
said 5 to 4 against,' and considering that Bob duly
won this was a fearsome exhibition of liberality on
the part of Christian. Bob had to be driven very
hard to make him win, and he bungled the last
hurdle badly, but managed to beat Lady Esker by a
length. The sensation of the race was the breaking
of a blood-vessel by Acer, which caused that prad to
drop dead. Another smash took place in the Wanda
Steeple; the top-weight favorite, Corntax, hit the
fence very hard and blundered badly at the next
lump, so his rider pulled him up, and then found
that the animal’s stifle was broken. The pistol gave
the happy release. The race went to Manifold s
Squirm, which wriggled away in great style after
Corntax pulled up. Most interest centred on the
Richmond Cup, which it was hoped would throw
livht on coming events. Riffian was prime favorite,
and got well to the front at the distance, but
there he was challenged by Obi, who will carry list.
51b. in the Grand National Hurdle Race. Obi came
with a magnificent rush, and, overwhelming the
favorite, won by three-quarters of a length. At
the present time there is much argument as to
whether it was a good run or not. Partisans on
both sides are very emphatic ; but writer’s opinion is
that it will be all the same in less than a century.
The Vic. Trotting Association keeps a sharp
axe on its woodheap. Lately it inquired into the cir-
cumstances surrounding the trot at the Marong (Vic.)
races on April 5, and having heard all that every-
body had to say, rolled up its sleeves and got to work.
The local club’s disqualification of E. 11. Ruedin
for three months for suspicious practices was altered
to “for life” ; J. A. Kennedy, driver of Prince of
Wales, was fined £25 for disobedience; A. Williams,
driver of Hazel Direct, was fined £lO for speaking
to strangers after weighing out; and J. Hawkins,
driver of W.S., was fined £5 for disobeying the
starter’s orders. And finally the Marong Club itself
was informed that it was considered a lax body,
badly in need of tidying up.
O. 11. O’Brien had a hard tussle with C.
tt. Reading in the N.S.W. Amateur Golf Champion-
ship final on Saturday, and got out with one up.
In other words, it took him a few less strjies to
biff a small ball over a measured expanse of terri-
tory. It was a most fortunate thing that he didn’t
win by two up, otherwise the Law might have butted
in. Throughout the struggle O’Brien had a num-
ber of close finishes, and his success is said to have
been due to wonderful grit, and that dogged deter-
mination which is so characteristic of the English-
man.
C. J. B. Wood, a Leicestershire (Eng.)
amateur, has created a batting record by going in
first in each innings against Yorkshire, and remaining
not out each time with, respectively, 107 and 117 to
his credit. The nearest to that record was when
Gehrs (S.A.) made 148 (n. 0.) and 100 (n. 0.) against
a Westralian team. But Gehrs didn’t go in first.
Despite Wood’s performance, the choir county came
out on top by five wickets.
* * * *
Widerstrom made small beans of Burton Smith in
the final dust-up'for the N.S.W. Bowls Champion of
Champions at the City (Sydney) Green last week, and
won by 31 to 17. Last year Widerstrom grabbed the
same bauble, and during the last six years he has
scooped in eight medals and various championships
of different dimensions. Unlike the ordinary
sportsman, Mr. Widerstrom is a satisfied individual,
and now drops right out to make way for the
younger generation. He is a wise man who knows
how to retire while his glory is still gilded.
Petersham continues with an unbroken re-
cord in Sydney lacrosse premiership, and at the
wind-up of the first round on Saturday led the crowd
with 14 points for seven straight-out wins. Sydney
and Stanmore struggle along together with 10 points,
and Mosman and Balmain come next with eight
points each; while Waverley, University and Manly
are practically pushed out of sight.
* * * *
Sydney baseball is providing a mighty
struggle this season. Prior to Saturday last four
clubs out of eight were dead equal in competition
points. But Saturday’s upheaval altered the posi-
tion, and left Waverley and Lane Cove on top with
eight points each, and Leichhardt and Petersham
pressing behind with six each. The rest of the
clubs were in the soup. #
Two French doctors, who have been mak-
ing* a study of the effects of aeroplaning, state that
high flying weakens the action of the heart. Most
branches of high flying do. On the other band,
swift and sudden descents produce delirium and hal-
lucinations, and any sort of flying at all is liable to
produce aerial sickness, compared with which sea-sick-
ness is said to be a dream of opium-like delight. A
theory is gaining ground that a lot of the smashes
are not due to natural causes affecting the machine,
but to the vagaries of the heart of the ’planer under
the unusual conditions.
* * * *
Peter Nelson, who trained Dick Arnst for
two of his championship races, is now tuning up
Harry Pearce. Curiouslv enough, the first time Arnst
defeated Pearce, the champion was trained bv
Peter Nelson, and people who see omens are trying
to peer through the mist. It was also Peter who
trained Arnst when he beat Webb the first time on
the Wanganui. Much wonder is expressed at the
departure of Fogwell and Jack Arnst under the cir-
cumstances, but it is obvious they reckoned Richard
was quite well able to take care of himself. Alt
Felton is to be the champion’s pacemaker, and that
Nestor of the game, Harry Floyd, will be mentor and
friend —so Arnst’s friends have nothing to worry
about on that score. Pearce’s pacemaker, by the
way, is his brother Sidney.
The chief sin in motoring is mis-alignment.
’Tis bad alignment or improper fitting together of
parts that causes broken lugs, leaky radiators, and
general Sheol. It is the mis-alignment of the front
wheels that causes the tyres to perish like Jonah’s
gourd. It is the mis-alignment caused by worn
bushes, or bad adjustment in the steering-knuckles,
which makes the turning of the steering wheel a job
to be undertaken only by a wrestler in training, in-
stead of being done by two fingers. It is mis-align-
ment between the clutch and the fly-wheel of the
motor which causes the clutch to drag, like a lady
going to the lock-up on a policeman’s arm, and toe
change-speed gears to grind like the mills of God,
and breaks off a tooth or two which jamb the gears
and wreck the show. It is mis-alignment between the
main and counter shafts of a gear-box which makes
the gear roar like the bulls of Bashan. It is mis-
alignment of the bevel pinion and wheel bearings
which causes excessive wear on the axle and ruins
the bearings, wearing them out in half their proper
time ; and the same thing produces smashes by throw-
ing the brake-surfaces out of line, and rendering them
ineffective. Mis-alignment is Original Sin and Pro-
destination rolled into one. #
“Kaitangata”: In obituarising Carrie
Nation, the window-smashing enemy of Derrmk,
The Bulletin (l/6/’ll) stated (not in its sporting
columns) that John L. Sullivan had fought Slavin,
but from Mrs. Nation he fled and hid himself in the
kitchen. Wrong! Johnel took care not to meet Slavin
after he saw the horrid mess Francis Patrick made
of Jake Kilrain in nine rounds, with gloves, whereas
he himself had taken 79 rounds and three hours odd
to beat Jake with the raw ’uni. Also, Johnel side-
stepped Peter Jackson on the color line, and would
have nothing to do with Joe Goddard when Joe
challenged him while he was “acting” in “The
Honest Blacksmith,” in Melbourne. But what a
fight that pair would have put up could they have
met at their prime!
Along the N.S.W. western line they’re
determined to put down professionalism with an iron
fist. A sizable school held its annual sports. The
boys are not a rich lot, so the money scraped to-
gether was small, and there not being enough to buy
decent trophies, they just divided the cash. One
youth won a footrace and marched off with half a
crown. The following week a local sports meeting
took place. The winner of the half-crown entered
and beat the local champion. The champion’s ad-
mirers were most upset till they remembered hear-
ing of the half-crown. Then they promptly dis-
qualified the winner as a professional.
A favorite relaxation of Equity Judge
Topp, of Victoria, is shark-killing. His Honoris
method is automatic and simple. He tightly corks
an empty bottle, ties round its neck a few yards pf
line with a big baited wire-snoozed hook attached,
throws it into the water, and “lets it go Gallagher” ;
in fact, he has half a dozen similarly-geared bottles
working at once. The shark swallows the bait and
swims off, with its movements hampered by the
bottle, which ultimately kills it, the resistance of
the “dead marine,” when pulled many feet below
the surface, being enormous and ever-increasing. The
Toppian bottle is a death-buoy.
“Ajacks" : Some early N.S.W. ped. prizes
were valuable. Devenport and Farnell, in 1854, ran
125yds. for £5OO. Dev. took the money by a whis-
ker. Following year Devenport beat Dalton over
150yds. for £2OO. At Penrith, in ’62, Single beat
Webster over 100yds. for £4OO. On the Sydney
Domain, in the late ’so’s, two giddy young kippers
of 60 (Robinson and Black) settled a dispute as to
who was the better runner. Robinson won the argu-
ment and £lOO. But there was at least one man
who padded the 'uof for pleasure. That was William
Francis King, the “flying pieman.” King set out to
be a parson, but his genial spirit and fondness for
sport led him away from the collection-plate. He
worked in the gloomy Tower of London, then came to
Sydney and was in his element. At first a school-
master, he eventually became barman at the Hope
and Anchor Hotel, at the corner of King and Pitt
streets. He once walked 1634 miles in 39 days
(only nine of "them fine) just for fun. He carried a
heavy pole, and even then beat the coach from Bris-
bane to Ipswich by one hour. For six consecutive
days he walked from Sydney to Parramatta twice a
day. He carried a live goat, weighing 921 b., and
121 b. dead weight from Sydney to Parramatta in
6hr. 48min. King did most of these things for his
health and not for his wealth, and appears to have
achieved his object, lie lived to be 81, and died in
the Liverpool (N.S.W.) Asylum.
KING SOLOMON’S BRUISER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Then King Solomon swore, saying, Adonijah shall
be put to ;death this day. And King Solomon sent
by the hand of Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada ; and he
fell upon him that he died.
\nd it was told King Solomon that Joab was fled
unto the tabernacle. So Benaiah, the son of Je-
hoiada, went up, and fell upon him, and slew him.
The King said, moreover, to Shimei, “The Lord
shall return thy wickedness upon thine own head.”
So the King commanded Benaiah, the son of Jehoi-
ada ; which went out, and fell upon him, that he died.
And the kingdom was established in the hand of
Solomon. „ ’
—From the First Book of Kings.
King Solomon sat on a priceless rug.
There was wisdom in even his shoulder-shrug,
He had temples builded, and gold mines dug;
But his proudest boast was the champion pug—
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada !
For he was the man with the dazzling left,
And the swinging right, and the footwork deft,
Whose foemen lay with an eyebrow cleft,
Face to the sky, and of senses reft —
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada!
And so the King had a golden chair.
And an army of wives on whom to stare,
With some —lady friends—who were also fair ;
But who was the hustler who helped him there?
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada!
King Solomon lived in a style serene,
With gold-bags bigger than Solomon Green ;
Swapped jewels and winks with Sheba’s queen;
But somebody else had a punch more clean —
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada !
King Solomon’s mines they have petered out,
And some of his wisdom -we’ve dared to flout;
But the world still sees, with a gasping doubt,
The invincible punch and the terrible shout
Of Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada !
If you read the Book (as you ought to do),
’Tis Solomon, Solomon, pages through ;
But I like this brief and vanishing view
Of the smiter in First Kings, Chapter Two,
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada !
“The kingdom was made by Solomon’s hand,”
His palace was rich and his temple grand ;
Yet I rather think that they played the band
For the man who biffed at the King’s command —-
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada !
When the blow fell ngmph ! on some Man of Sin,
The children of Judah ran out and ih,
Saying, “Praised be Solomon and his kin,
For good old Benny is at it again—
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada!”
Who is the man whom the world admires ?
Splendiferous Dudley or William Squires,
King Solomon getting his heart’s desires,
Or Ben with the biceps of bunched steel wires?
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada !
VICTORIA.
L.
LIVER AND KIDNEY TROUBLES.
A SYDNEY WOMAN’S TRIALS. AL-
WAYS TIRED AND DEPRESSED.
YET UNABLE TO SLEEP.
“I suffered from Liver and Kidney
troubles for over two years, and severe pain
under the shoulder which would not let me
get any rest at night, and in the day-time
Mrs. A. Lord.
(From a photo.)
I would be over-
come with drow-
siness,” writes
Mrs. Ada Lord,
4.1 George-street,
Erskineville, Syd-
ney. ‘I was al-
ways ailing, al-
ways sleepy, tired,
an d depressed,
and had no appetite;
indeed, I could never
enjoy a meal. The
doctor first treated
me for indigestion,
and I might as well
have taken water for
all the good his medi-
cine did me. I was
recommended to try
Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills by my
nephew, who had been taking them with
wonderful results for liver complaint, which
had affected his eyesight; and I can truly
say the first dose gave me great relief. 1
was encouraged to continue, and now 1 may
say that I am completely well, and would
not be without them. You may use this,
as I recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills to everybody I know.”


THE “MOTA”
( Regd.).
0:
The “ MOTA ” HAT is conceded everywhere to
be the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for
business or holidays, for walking, driving or riding,
for week djtys or Sundays, for wet days orfinedavs,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ MOTA ” is THE hat that suits every head
and every occasion. Stocked by leading houses
throughout Australia, in all fashionable colors.
PRICES, 7/6 to 12/6.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
m
A
o
The product of
Qne source only
More miles on "SHell" than
on any other.
Its perfect purity - jhat'a
the point'
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h. P . Chalmers
£-490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp. THOMAS,
6=Cylinder 7=Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
Well, of course
Anything wo;th doing is
worth do'ng well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:al Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng,
Medical.
Pr.E.C. LE<SER ERSON
formerly hon. physician Auckland and Broken Hill
general hospitals.
Also of Collins Street, Melbourne ; Macquarie St eet,
Sydney ; and Hay Street, Perth,
Has Resumed Practice at 30 Collins Street,
Melbourne- Consultation Hours
Tel. 453.
11.30 to 12.30, 6.45 to 7.45 p. m.
SPECIALTY 606.
No
Chapped
Hands !
“You have not got to
handle the cold crow-
bar, which causes
chapped hands,” writes
an “Iwan” Post
Hole Digger user
from Mirboo South,
Vic. “I am pleased
with it in many wav;
—quickness in sink
ing the hole, les*
ramming to be done,
and cleanness of work
in wet weather.”
Surely, Mr. Farmer, a
tool like this would be
boon to you in the
winter! You can sink
anything from 120 to 200
holes in a day with the
“ Iwan ” Post Hole
Digger. Empties with
a shake, and will bore
to 3f> feet ; has no ad-
justable parts—nothing to get out of order.
|gp
[•:»
pjvi
te <
#%*
_ ...,i:4W':i
sapi
t#i
v
* »r.
pm
ii
M
M
n-',i
m
v 1 it
\:m
'tmm
••!'» I'njTT.rrr
V. '***•••
f7'n irtj
Vr'<
3 4 5
7/= 7/= 7/»
9 io
9/6 10/-
678 inch
7/- 7/6 8/6
12 14 inch
27/- 34/=
Write for our 256-page Catalogue if you
want information on any kind of tool.
It’s Post Free.
Thos. McPherson 8 Son,
Established 50 Years,
582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Engine Packings
and Jointings.
WE manufacture Engine Packings and
Jointings for all classes of engineering
and mechanical purposes, and can sup-
ply these goods promptly. Special sizes can
be made to order. Note these prices :
Perdriau Craphited Spiral Packing, 3/9
p r lb.
Perdriau Dugong Gasket, 4/- per lb.
Perdriau Dugong Jointing, 4/- per lb.
Perdriau Square Metallic Asbestos Block
Packing, 3/- per lb.
Perdriau Multiple Core Asbestos Block
Packing, 3/- per lb.
Perdriau “ Titan ” Jointing, 3/9 per lb.
Perdriau “ Titan ” HP. Piston Packing
specially suitable for Marine work, 5/- per lb.'
Our Mechanical Euhb r Goods List gives all
details of the above lines. Call, or write for
a copy.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f
1
&
Gen erato r
Supremacy.
Brandt’s Improved a
perfect acetylene genera-
tor embodying the latest
scientific improvements.
No intricate parts, auto-
matic, satisfactory light-
ing for twelve years, no
waste carbide—no waste
gas. Price minus inter-
mediate profits. Results
Guaranteed.
Write for Literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.,
lam phouse.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St, Melbourne
r r ;El iL4 ,^ tr u lia ?r Magazine. THE LONE
_l_ HAISiD, the National Monthly. Price 6d
High-Grade Shoes by Mail !
v/c i
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
305 GEORGE STREET and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal supervision of Mr jr n'
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
Rig'ney,
We have a perfect Mail Order Service, and can fill V m,r
manner 1 " n6edS by mail in a most satisfactory
Our new Catalogue shows all the latest styles in gent’s
address." & C ° Py ° f WhiCh Wi, ‘ be post * d free to
The Shoe illustrated is a choice Tan Russia Calf
OXf °dre & ssy e ’ V * ry neat ’ service able and
Price 251-
Postage 9d. extra.
“The Men’s Exclusive
High-Grade Shoe
Stores,”
A. M. L 8 F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Co., Ltd.)
J
♦ ♦ ♦
FOR
♦ ♦ ♦
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager.
Also at Melbourne (£L Brisbane.
USEFUL for ALL-ROUND WORK.
THE B. & B. 2J-h.p. Motor Cycle is practically the only one on the
market combining lightness with great strength. There are many suit-
able for rough country work, but they are too heavy for city travelling,
and the lightweight machines for city work go to pieces on the country roads,
w* was designed to provide an all round cycle for use on roads of
it fully fulfilled our expectations. Call and let us show you one. Our Pitt Street
9 on Friday nights. Or, if you cannot call at all, write for Catalogue.
any condition, and
Depdt is open till
uhjiuojoj
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Cyc,e Buildin £T House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, and Castiereagh Street, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Famous Triumph Motor Cycle.
ROAD RIDERS
rA
X
“-X*
HAVE A BLUER CHANCEOFSUCCESS
WHEN THEY RIDE—^
DUNLOP
because they are made for speed, and
at same time made to withstand
hard riding’. The success of these Tyres in
last season’s big Road Events demonstrated that
these Speedy and Reliable Tyres have no equal
for Road Racing.
Send for oar lateet Road Racing Tyre Section Card,
nut.. ™ h,ch wIU be Potted: you grati * on application .
DUNLOP RUBBER Melbourne, Sidney, Adelaide, Pc rib. Brisbane, Christchurch
Assessments totalling £178,000 have been
made under the new Victorian State Land
Tax Act —the Act which gave benefits to the
big landlord, and put burdens on the small
land-owner. Watt estimated the revenue
from the tax at between £240,000 and
£250,000. But, while Fisher was castigated
for cautiously estimating the Federal land-
tax revenue at £200,000 under the actual
amount, Willie’s much less-successful esti-
mate has only been made the subject of a
jocular reference in the Sluggish press. Aus-
tralia’s financiers are only financiers when
they don’t belong to the Labor party.
George Garson, of Melbourne, who died
the other day, brought his hard head from
the Orkney Islands. Coming to Victoria in
1888, he was appointed State engineer in
connection with the Macorna and Ivow
Swamp water schemes. After that he was
on the Echuca and Waranga Trust, and
then became the State’s Deputy. Chief En-
gmeer for> Water Supply, and a member of
the Water Supply Commission. All his life
he had lived by Vater, and in the end he
perished, suddenly after taking an evening
bath. A brother of Carson’s is the distin-
guished Egyptologist at the British Museum.


EXCLUSIVE
DESIGNS.
A. SAUNDERS
CHARMING
Conceptions
a. ciaugers.
6ct Gold BRACELET, Bet Pearls, Amethyst, or Topaz,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Bar SCROLL BROOCH, Red
Stone and Pearls, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 8
Diamonds, and
Ruby, Sapphire, or
Black Opals, £ 10
A. SAImDURS.
9ct Gold, 3-stone
Cross-over
RING, set Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £ lO-
A.
LBct Gold, Double
tow, Half-hoop,
set 6 Diamonds and
} Rubies, Sap-
jhires, or Olivines,
£O/10/.
Wg
A.
ct Gold BAND
tINGS, set Red,
Jreen, or Blue
Stones, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £3-
Larger Diamonds,
£3 /10/.
a. saLowers.
18ct 'Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster,
£7/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Isct CRESCENT and STAR BROOCH,'
Fine Pure White Double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £ 10-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ft Gold “Lily of the Valley’’ SPRAY
BROOCH, Fine White Pearls, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS, 17/6
15ct Gold LINKS, 35/-
Silver, 4/6-
SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT,
set pne White Pearls
and Peridot or Tour-
malines, £3/15/■
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Fine Pure White
-Double-cut Diamonds, £lO-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold CIRCLE
BROOCH, set with
Pearls, 32£/6-
*
u
SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold
PIN and
STUD,
Pearl and
Diamond,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CHARM,
set Tearls and Red
or Rlue Siones,
17/G.
Larger, 22/6.
A: SAUNDERS.
loot Gold EAR-
RINGS, Set with
Tourmalines,
£2.
25/-
30/-
it'
Gold EMU
CHARM.
Gold
Knob Chain
and Metal
Pin, 5/6-
With Gold
Pin, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, j-nlate. full
jewelled, Patent Adjusted
Balance, 25/. Extra Jewelled
Movement, 30/. Guaranteed
One Year’s Free Repair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Uent.’s Nickel Open-Face Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted Dalance,
Non-magnetic, Dust and Water Proof Oases,
20/-
Guaranteed 1 Year’s Free Repairs.
20/
20/-
uhjiuojoj
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold EARRINGS,
set Pearls and .
Garnet, 12/6-
OUR
OPTICAL WORK
IS THE
FINEST IN
THE WORLD.
CATALOGUES
OF EACH
DEPARTMENT
SENT,
POST FREE.
Solid Gold NECKT.Ac "\d Fine 13
and Diamond-cut Tourmalines or 1 enaots,
X? 7 /l
A. oAUNDERS.
15ct Gold SPRAY and CLUSTER
BROOCH, £2/5/.
9ct ucld
HAT PIN,
10/6.
SAUNDERS.
15ct, Gold,
Pearls and
Diamonds,
30/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold COM i’ASS
PENDANT,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET Set Diamonds and Ruble,
Sapphires, / A O / •
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CIRCLE BROOCH,
set Pearls and Turquoise,
25 /•
Illill
A. SAUNDERS.
net Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst Centre,
15ct Gold, £2.
CJa
r
y.cfl-
i7^_7
9ot
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond,
Red or Blue Stones, ISO/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS, 20/.
15ct Gold, 40/- .
Initials Engraved tree.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls ard Tur-
quoise, £SS.
15ct Gold, £3/10/._
get Gold 3-BarSCROLL BUckLE BROOCH,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct, Half-hoop, Pure
Diamonds and Opals,
£5.
| A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, r-t Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, CLUSTER
RING. £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Claw-set
RING, Garnet, Ame-
thyst, or Garnet,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Ruby or
Sapphire. 30/.
A. t>oLiiNur.RS.
18ct. Gold,
set Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires,
Half-Hoop Ring,
A.: SAUNDERS. ,
get Gold Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, Stron
Safety Chain attached, £3/10/-
A. 8A Uis ujK US.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, 25/-
•23
■ws*
&
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EXPANDING WATCH BRACELET Lever
Movements, Full Jewelled, Accurate, Reliable,
£6/10/.
■■Extra Jewelled Movement,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SAFETY PIN, with Patent
Non-breakable Joint, o/t»-
Larger, 8
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, 12/<».
Smaller, 8/6, 10/.
50/-
I JBh
Gent, ’b Patent Gold-eased Hunting Keyless
Waltham WATCH, Full Jewelled, Com-
pensation Balance, fcjS/10/-
With Extra Jewelled Movement, £3.
nnaranteed 2 years free repairs.
50/-
uhjiuojoj
A. SAUNDEKS.
- Solid Gold Engraved
I TIE-CLIP, 10/6-
Plain, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCH-
BOX, a Neat Design,
5/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold TRACE MUFF CHAIN, £4/10/, £5/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, bet Pearls and Tourma-
line or Peridot, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-round Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET,
Strong Safety Chain attached, £2/10/-
Heavier, £3.
JEWELLER,
IBC&S AS
m
SYDNEYIS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815.815,817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY,N.SME.
• SILVERSMITH
oO HSULT« C i
s,OPTICIANJ


YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A
‘SMOKE’ IS TILL YOU’VE
tried MY CIGARS
Ist\(ZuA\ t
I’M goihg to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australas.a—and the most Confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too,
Talk about joy ! Why, to kit rotihd a eatnp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching to your tnates,
each of you krtloking 6ng of my Cigars, joy isn't
in it! It’s just simply bliss!
As the yarns gd round, the blue smoke
cutting Upwards in a fragrant Cloud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering brt youir
H P S ted you, you'll Spend Some bf the
happiest hours of your life.
uhjiuojoj
LettefS are hoiiiirig iri Id
file iii shoals frond all bvef
Australasia, praising up iny
CigatSi Take bnd I’vb just
got ds I Vvritd this, foir in-
stalled—it’s front d chap on a
cattle Stdtiqii Up in Northern
Queensland. He writes:—
‘‘Those DIADEMAS Cigars
bfyoursare just alright. I’ve
always Smoked d pipe—but
ndmorb; Not that I’ve givdii
hji pipe-fcttioking altogether j
but when I want a real smoke
—something rich—l light up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment."
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
you may select.
Send foe 100 of any of
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver* promptly,
postage or* carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoke 5 op 6 of them, and if they’re
not superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’ll return every penny of your money—no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked,
My Cigars are made from the Very finest
mild, rich mellow Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
leaf. The Cigars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There s no “catch" about this offer—it's just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne. He’ll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you 11 make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dark colors,
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
uhjiuojoj
A
‘BRAHAM
COSTUME
FOR
WINTER.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
76 Market Street,
Sydney.
Next door to Farmer’s.
“ViySE
DAT
NIGHT
Wear
(Reo? traq^mas?V
The High-Cfass Washing Material,
“Viyella”
(Regd.)
Does Not Shrink.
FOR GENTLEMEN’S
Golfing Jackets, Tennis Shirts,
Day and Night Shirts, Pyjamas,
etc.
FOR LADIES’
Shirt-Blouses, Costumes,
Nightdresses, Dressing Gowns,
etc.
FOR CHILDREN'S
Frocks, Sleeping Suits, «<-,
tiewate of imitations and refuse substitutes.-
Unique in make and in reputation, there is
nothing “just the same.”
See the “ Viyella ” label on the selvedge,
To be obtained from the leading
Stores in each town.
New EDISON
Records for July
The new Edison Records for July will be on sale at all dealers on Friday, the 23rd of June.
The lists comprise a number of exceptionally good Records, for which we anticipate a
heavy demand. The most prominent among these are the selections by the famous
Sousa Band (at present in Australia), Marie Narelle, Alexander Prince, Ada [ones,
Peter Dawson, and other popular artists. Special attention Is drawn to the Record
by the world-famous actress, Sara Bernhardt. This number is a histrionic triumph.
Call on the nearest dealer and ask him to play over some of these Records for you.
If you are not aware of the address of a dealer, write to us direct, and we will tell you
that of the nearest. We will also send catalogue and lists of Edison Phonographs
and Records.
AMBEROL RECORDS FOR JULY
(Four-Minute).
580— Softly, Unawares Sousa’s Band
581— Love Dreams. ........ .W. IT. * Thompson
582 — Every Little Movement. . .Miss Narelle,
Mr. Potter and Chorus
583 j-Mother Machree Will Oakland
584 Chanticleer Reel and Jig Medley
(Violin Solo) D’Almaine
585 Bonnie Sweet Bessie Marie Narelle
586 — The Musical Wizard and Bell Boy
Spencer and Campbell
588— You’se Just a Little Nigger. .Ada Jones
589 Tarry With Me.... Anthony and Harrison
592 —Kerry Mills’ Barn Dance. .. .Collins and
594-
595-
596-
598-
599-
12214-
12215-
12216-
12217-
12218-
12219-
12220-
12221-
llarlah
■The Girl of My Dreams. .Anthony and
Chorus
-German Yodle Songs. .George P: Watson
-Sweet Dreams of Home (Bells Solo)
Charles Daab
-Home, Sweet Home Knickerbocker
Quartet
-Moonlight in Jungleland Medley
N.Y. Military Band
-Di Ballo (Overture). .National Military
. Band
-I Like You in Velvet. . . .Maurice Farkoa
-One, Two, Three, Four, Five
George Formby
-The Kerry Dance Amy Evans
-March aux Flambeaux (Concertina)
Alexander Prince
ra Peter Dawson
-Managan Florrie Ford
-Shirts Arthur Osmond
12223 —“Lucia di Lamm.ermoor” (Selection)
National Military Band
12250 —Yip-I-addy-I-ay Stanley Kirkby
12258 —Our Miss Gibbs (Selection)
National Military Band
GRAND OPERA AMBEROL.
30032—Pescatori di Perle —Mi par d’udir ancora
(Sung- in Italian, Aristodemo Giorgini
(Tenor)
30033 —II Trovatore—Vanna laseiami (Sung in
Italian).... .Marie Rappold (Soprano)
30034 —Traviata—Di Provenza il mar (Sung in
Italian) ... .Ernesto Caronna (Baritone)
35012—11 Flauto Magico—Aria della Regina
(Sung in Italian) Marie Galvany
(Soprano)
40037 —Lohengrin—Gralserzahlung (Sung in Ger-
man) Karl Jorn (Tenor)
Amberol Record by Sara Bernhardt.
35013 —La Samaritaine—(acte I.) La Samaritaine
recontre Jesus au puits de Jacob (Reci-
tation in French) .... Sarah Bernhardt
Amberol Records in Italian.
5010- —Ciribiribin
Maria Avezzo and Francesco Daddi
5013—La Seranato ...Francesco Daddi
STANDARD RECORDS FOR JULY
(Two-Minute).
10457—A1l That I Ask of You is Love
, , Helen Clark
10458 —You’re Mine, All Mine. .Jones and Murray
10459—Flanagan’s Courtship Steve Porter
10460—The Bell Gavotte (Bells Solo)
...... _ Charles Daab
10461—Dear Old Ma Will Oakland
10462-
10469-
14029-
14032-
-Wonderful Words of Life
Anthony and Harrison
-Southern Ideal March. .U.S. Marine Band
-I’ve Got Bings on My Fingers
, Stanley Kirkby
-A Sprig o’ Shillelagh (Concertina)
Alexander Prince
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
(Wholesale Only), Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
Macmillan’s New
Shilling Library.
NEW VOLS.
SOUTH SEA BUBBLES.
By the Eiul and the Doctor.
A POOR MAN’S HOUSE.
By Stephen Reynolds.
THE INTELLECTUAL LIFE.
By Philip Gilbert Ilamerton.
LETTERS FROM HELL. Given in
English by J.S.
With a Preface by Dr. George Mac-
donald.
MODERN EGYPT. By the Earl of
Cromer.
With Portrait. Cheaper Edition in
lvol. Bvo. 7s. (id. net.
THE STATESMAN’S YEAR BOOK
FOR THE YEAR 1911.
Edited by J. Scott Keltie, LL.D.
Revised after Official Returns.
Crown Bvo. 10s. 6d. net.
A SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. By
Many Writers.
Second Edition. Edited by Sir Clif-
ford Allbutt, K.C.8., M.D., and H.
D. Rolleston, M.D.
Vol. IX. (concluding - the work).
Diseases of the Skin. Bvo. 25s
net.
MACMILLAN’S Colonial
Library of Copyright Books.
591* MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY.
A Story of the Western Plains.
By Otven Wister, Author of “The
Virginian,’-’ etc.
592. THE UNKNOWN GOD.
By Putnam Weale, Author of “The
Human Cobweb,” etc.
Ths Morning Post : “At times the writer
attains to considerable elevation of style’
there are pages of moving and stately prose!
*' • .* Throughout Mr. Putnam W r eaie evinces
a considerable insight into human nature and
‘The Unknown God’ will add to his reputa-
tion. ” ■ j ,
589. NINA.
By Rosalind Masson.
590. TREVOR LORDSHIP.
By Mrs. Hubert Barclay.
588. JIM HANDS.
By Richard C. Child. A story of
American factory life in a New Eng-
land town.
Punch : “It is one of those books which
provoke genuine salt from the eyes of the
reader in the places where the author has laid
his humor aside. There is a ‘travelling
doctor’ in it who speaks of ‘ a story that is all
wool, a yard wide, and contains no shoddy
or adulteration whatever ’; and ‘Jim Hands’
might, I think, respond, also in the vernacular,
‘ I’m the goods.' ”
572- THE DOCTOR’S CHRISTMAS
EVE.
By James Lane Allen, author of
“The Choir Invisable,” etc. A Se-
quel to “The Bride of the Mistle-
toe.”
587. THE MAGIC CITY.
A Fairy Story. By E. Nesbit.
With Illustrations by H. R. Millar.
(Cloth only.)
582. THE HUMAN CHORD.
By Algernon Blackwood.
581. TALES OF MEN AND GHOSTS.
By Edith Wharton.
586. ALONGSHORE.
By Stephen Reynolds, author of
“A Poor Man’s House.” Illus-
trated by Melville Mackay.
584. THE LITTLE KING.
A Story of the Childhood of Louis
XIV., King of France. By Charles
Major, author of “When Knighthood
was in Flower.”
585. PRINCESS FLOWER HAT.
By Mabel Osgood Wright, author of
“Poppea of the Post Office.”
A MAP OF THE WORLD ON
MERCATOR’S PROJECTION.
Specially designed for Austral-
asian schools, showing AUSTRALIA
as the centre of the Universe. Size
50in. x 42in. Mounted on doth.
Rollers and varnished, 12s.
ATLAS FOR AUSTRALASIAN
SCHOOLS,
Physical and Political, size 12in. x
10in., 30 maps, Is. fid.
A MODERN DICTIONARY OF THE
ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Contains 48,719 Words; 750 Abbre-
viations ; 1949 Phrases ; 895 Foreign
Words and Phrases, and an Eight-
page Appendix of Classical and
Mythological Names. Cloth, Is. 4d.
net; Half Leather, gilt top, 2s. fid.
net.
Complete List sent Post Free on application.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


THE
SURE CURE
The best of food cannot nourish
you unless, you digest it properly.
The relish, lor food and the power
to digest it depend on the healthy
FOB
INDIGESTION
action of your
stomach, liver
and bowels.
When these or-
gans are dis-
ordered, your food does not properly
digest, but ferments and gives oft
poisons that enter your ‘blood and
BILIOUSNESS
bring on pains
after eating,
headaches,
biliousness, constipation. Mother
Seigel’s Syrup is the best remedy
for all these troubles, because the
HEADACHES
herbal extracts
of which it is
made quickly re-
store tne stomach, liver and bowels
to natural working order, Then
you can relish and digest your
CONSTIPATION
food, your sys-
tem is freed from
the poisonous
products of Indigestion, and good
health follows naturally. Try the
Syrup, after your next meal.
MOTHER
SYRUP.
THE HERBAL TONIC MADE OF
ROOTS, BARKS AND LEAVES.
A MARVELLOUS ADVANCE IN MEDICAL SCIENCE.
S A (VIOL,
Tie New Treatment for Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF OF PAIN.
“SAMOL” is an ointment for the treatment of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, etc., affording imme-
diate relief from pain in the above cases, as-also in cases
of Neuralgia, To thache, Sprains and Burns. It further
allays inflammation and irritation in Eczema, Stings,
Qhiiblains, Insect. Bites, etc.
When “ SAMOL ” is applied to a painful part the pain
\yill be relieved.
“ SAMOL ” is prescribed in most hospitals in Austria-
Hungary by the leading Medical Professors and Physi-
cians on the Continent.
“SAMOL” is sold at 3s. 9d. and 6s. per tube, and can
be ordered through all chemists or obtained post free
direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A. GODDARD, stfia
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, or 104 VICKERY’S
CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. [2
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
a. a
Zaw Points
£.• sni/enCors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA,
t I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give' the necessary instructions for
further procedure. -
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and-a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
fNREME LA FRANCE
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
uhjiuojoj
tifyin<r and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/= Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Indies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DtJERDIN AND SAIXsI'dJItY, Melbourne.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coujrhs aijd
Colds. RelieveslXsThnia and dilßcvtlC 'ftrra^hjn!?.--
MEN’S WINTER FOOTWEAR.
A NEW
MODEL.
Price 19/6.
The Glace or Box Balmoral illustrated is the result of the
best shoe-making thought obtainable, applied to the best
mechanical process and worked out in as excellent
leather as the world’s tanneries afford.
Write for our Booklet,
“ SHOELIGHT.”
■ . I
mm —±am
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
We have always contended that, for climbing hills, there are few machines in
the world that can equal the
3£H.P. SPEEDWELL
MOTOR
CYCLE.
This was demonstrated by Mr. R. Robinson on Saturday last, when he met 14 other motor
cycles, including one of 8 h.p., for the purpose of settling the matter on the Eastwood mil.
The trial was under the auspices of the Sydney Club, and was conclusive.
OUR 3^ -h.p. SPEEDWELL not only won the competition, but established a record
for the hill—for a single cylinder machine. Time 0.38 1-5.
We should like to show you this splendid Motor Cycle, which runs up the stiflest hills
with ease, on small petrol consumption, and is most comfortable to ride.
Call to-day, if you have time.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.,
Corner Pitt and Bathurst Streets, SYDNEY,
SPALDING GOLD MEDAL
Are the most correctly modelled and highly-
finished clubs ever turned out by any manu-
facturer, and whether driver, brassie or iron,
each has been selected with the greatest care
from the playing .clubs.of the most celebrated
amateurs and professionals. '
Every head is cut from a clear block of
either Dogwood or Persimmon, and the irons
have all hand-forged heads, hammered on our
own forges,at Putney Wharf, London. Every
shaft is specially selected from the finest sun-
dried, split Plickory obtainable, and only
the most experienced workmen are engaged
to make up these clubs:
Prices: Drivers or Brassies, 10/6; Irons, 9/=*
All goods bearing the Spalding Trade
Mark are Guaranteed.
GOLF
CLUBS
uhjiuojoj
Model o—Driver or Brassie
From all the better dealers, or
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, of Australasia Ltd.
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THERE IS NOWHERE SO GOOD AS
THE TARRANT,
Melbourne’s
Big Garage.
.■
m
WE REPRESENT IN VICTORIA
Fiats, Fords, F.N.’s, Mercedes,
Commer Commercial Cars, De Dion’s,
Argyles, Rovers,
AND
The “ Mea ” Magneto, the Leader
of Ignition.
Repairs, Accessories, Tyres, Oils, Gears, at Lowest Prices.
TARRANT MOTORS PROPRIETARY LTD.,
104=112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
uhjiuojoj
OSTRICH PLUHES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, .NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10 6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
i Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Thb Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
uhjiuojoj
8
to.
Capillariive Never Failed Yet!
As a moustache producer and improver, we have received the most excel-
lent testimonials from men who used it. We know of no case of failure.
CAPILLARINE is a perfect moustache-food, strengthening the roots, and
makes the hair bright and glossy.
.Price 10/6 a jar. Start using it to=day. Posted free anywhere.
The O. & A. Moustache Trainer makes and keeps the mous-
tache any shape you want it. Worn at night. 2s. 6d. post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 jjeorge Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
s
a
. .s'
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will "be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed j
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
V. 1).: “Same Old Thing” is the same easy
old stuff —worth about ‘2jd. per reel at the bargain
counter JlcMoonee: Missed the ’bus. That topical
sort of ’bus is a very swift vehicle Alex. 8.U.:
Fair central idea, but amateurish treatment beat it
on the post Wild Dog: Glad to hear that an Ade-
laide Bov Scout fished a drowning drunk out of a
Hooded culvert. Don’t, however, see that that justi-
fits the circus foolishnesses of the Bov Scout business.
Once knew a burglar who kept a widowed mothe;.
It was a laudable thing to do; but, as tar as this
paper knows, he never suggested that it w »s a com-
plete justification of burglary. .. . O Flan: Off ou
beat Keow Cocky: Read it again, then stop baik
ing up the wrong gum Arthur H.: Unsuitable.
G. D. Jericho: Glad to help the little man ; but give
i.s some details—you’re too vague.... Marne Miller
he’s had his answer already... .H. 8.: Call of tne
Bush” same old far-off coo-ee. Not sufficient origin
ality or skill Rook: Your cawing is too uneven.
' R I, (V.) : Can’t make out whether you are still
saving adieu or whether it happened long, long ago. j
Anyhow, the treatment is too weak L.1.L.8.. in-
suitable D. Sootz : No A.lk: No, n 0..... ,
\ Y A • We challenge you to produce your poet s
license P.J.W.: Sorry it doesn’t struggle up to j
print level.. .Aboriginal: The topic is stale, and the :
treatment very feeble and shambling. Speared....
YV.E.C.: Dull R.A.: Plain little tale, with no
artistic curls in it. . . .Y.Z.: In the first verse you ■
mention that a flower- of love bloomed within your
heart. In the second you record the fading of the
(lower, and mention that the wound of Cupid s ''art
is still unhealed. YVhy' not Cupid’s, spade? 1 resume
vou regard him as the incompetent or careless gar-
dener who planted the flower. V. .C.M.D.P.: You have
failed badly with wine, women and song. Iry tea,
dappers and talk. .. .E.S.IL: Very old theme—so old
that only very fine treatment can make it worth
while. Your effort is not very fine Rupert h. j
Speak roughly to your typist, 'this is how it reached j
“Look at me hands.'" the old man cried,
“Look at me face !” He shed salt tears
“That’s all us pioneers got, me lad,
After boiling away for years and years!’
Boast or boiled?....Spudskins: No. A straightfor-
ward Wowser would ask his friends to lend him their
legs as well as their ears. He would then bite the ears
hard over his collection-plate and pull the legs with
great violence. ... Sheila: Very mild story without a
climax Bardie: A likely theme, but your pen is a
bit green A.H.: The Religious Editor says he will
donate Is. r>d. to help you buy a team of lions and
lionesses like that driven by Phoebus Apollo in the
picture by Briton Riviere. > But he first. of all re-
quires a sworn declaration from you to the effect that
you will not spend the money in beer. If be.er ;is to
be bought with the money, the Religious Editor him-
self will do the buying. ... ILL. F.: Hard going.
Don’t beat vour good ploughshare into nibs. .'... .
Chauvelin: Verses on the Sliakspearian fancy-dress
ball, to be held just prior to the Coronation, are only
effective where they are most unkind: —
Our George as Sir John Falstaff would surely make
a hit ....
He would have the right sized wdskit even if he
lacked the wit.
....Unknown Contributor:. “Interviewing the .King”
condemned to the office tomb (Anonymous Shelf)....
Rangatira: We give you our solemn word that it is no
good to us F.W.M.: Very jerky essay in verse...
Arthur H.: Interesting verses on the subject of . our
murdered forests: — 1 -
Is there no timber in far parts
Where man does not travel ? Oh marts!
Will you ever give back to man
What you have taken? To plan
Maybe a skating rink’s smooth floor
The skaters answer —-Yes, anil more.
Well. If you make girl’s cheeks more red
And curve their lines. Enough, is said.
I love a pretty girl much more
Than this cold wood. Love is my lore,
So I’ll put a log upon the fire
And worry no more of mine ire.
....AiH.B.: Unoriginal and colorless. .Nobody in
Particular: Afraid to sign it, are you? It takes a
brave man to own up to a crime. .. .Zoe: That sort
of gentle poem requires a horsehair sofa in the poet’s
corner of a staid family journal. A sinful publica-
tion, when it meets such a tender young
effusion, can only raise its hat respectfully
and pass on W.A.C.: No, you must serve
your apprenticeship first....ll.F. (M.L.) : Wow-
ser poem doesn’t get us. Before you send it to
the Watchman, cut out the last verse in which St.'
Peter kicks him from the Gate, and write a new one
in which he presents him with enough money to re-
sume Rome. The Watchman is keen on buying up
Rome, and has already collected 3s. for the purpose.
. ...A.P.: You are the most desperate rhymer we
have met this year. Two exhibits: —
What rumors strange are these of ‘La belle France’
Riots, Wars, Rebellion
Causing this land of ours to gaze askance
Fearing the worse to be done.
Why, wonder we, that each man’s great sire
Changed, President from Monarch
And now, fearing the concession dire
Dog like, show their teeth and bark.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Genius: Nothing very striking about them.... The
Chief: Can’t see a picture in it....V.D.: “Types-
The East” received. Judging by the distance the
head is raised from the body, thought at first it was
a humorous drawing, entitled “The Yeast.”
The Wade Ministers were a poor lot in the
way of nomenclature, about the best they could
produce being Samuel Wilkinson Moore and Charles
Gregory himself. On the other hand, observe
the blooms in the M ;Gowen collection—James
Sinclair Taylor McGowen, Nieis Rasmus Wilson
Nielsen, George Stephenson Beeby, an i Ambrose
Campbell Carmichael. If Alf Edden’s father had
only called him Rowland Geoffrey, and Donald
Macdonell had been christened Godolphus Leich-
hardt, the list would have balanced more evenly
and the visitors’ book at Government House could
have defiantly thrown itself open to the critical
eye of Society.
The London Corporation has decided to
build a new bridge over the Thames, in a
line with St. Paul’s, at a cost of £1,600,000.
There is an outcry led by the Times, be-
cause the bridge won’t give a good view of
St. Paul’s, owing to a bend on the South-
wark side of the river. The Times and its
supporters want a long, straight cut from the
heart of Southwark, right to the middle of
the south front of St. Paul’s, which would
give a magnificent view. But the corpora-
tion says'that would cost a million more,
and it can’t see value for the money.
“P. Knutt”: In introducing penny, post-
age throughout the Commonwealth the
Fisher Government showed a lack of con-
sideration for the feelings of a certain sec-
tion of the community that brands it as a
class legislator of the worst type. I refer
to the Prodigal Sons, who occasionally bor-
row a stamp wherewith to write to a
widowed and dying mother. Ere the foot
of Labor was on this country’s neck, only
three such stamps were needed; but now the
suffering Prodigal must obtain six, particu-
larly beyond the. cities where all drinks are
fid. Private Enterprise has got to do a per-
ish in Australia, L can see.


V
*
"Wte
,( .
rjn
k mkA, y / IBS
SC.
v
! ?
*>:
/•
Hi
&jS>' i
ill] I
j t
O i i|B
«> w
\ 91
« Wl f*!.* 5 %
11 ?to i
I SI fa *
m:m v sr-
mm%
mM
i mm
i aR-.t
!\ii> m
H?;
/> /
si? --
nw?
"51
IP»
IU p I '?*
I iij *
( »i
5 &
.. . ,///7^
»0«
u
- - *‘v -
Ssa* —'«•
m
bW
if)
ifWi
P f •’ '
ilta^K
■P
s
#s&&***■
c
K ’•»-
NS
»»
sv,.N
Makers of High-Grade Pianos.
THE better Beale High-Grade Pianos become known to the public, the more we sell
of them. This fact in itself is assurance of their high quality. But, not only do
we sell a greater total number than ever, but a greater number of the high-priced
models. Does not this show the confidence placed in the high quality of our pianos ?
Remember that we sell direct to you from the factories, avoiding all Middlemen’s Profits.
BEAL
L
AKEm OF MGIHUGIADE PEA
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.SAV.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland. ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.
Tiie Utmost Clare in the Smallest Details.


For Hair
and Scalp
To prevent dry, thin
and falling hair, remove
dandruff, allay itching
and irritation, and pro-
mote the growth and
beauty of the hair, fre-
quent shampoos with
Cuticura Soap, assisted
by occasional dressings
with Cuticura Ointment,
are usually effective
when other methods
fail. In preserving, puri-
fying and beautifying
the skin, in preventing
minor eruptions from
becoming chronic, and
in the treatment of tor-
turing, disfiguring hu-
mors, rashes, itchings
and inflammations,
from infancy to age,
these pure, sweet and
gentle emollients have
no rivals.
Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.,
for free 32-p. book on the skin and hair.
9
Her Youth
Ky
rb.A
LENS
, C 4-3AJ
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
- for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
y. 'Ringing for More!'
-I--** " —■*
I,;#'
Bird’s
Custard
slands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success . A
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest, complaints.
.-ir
%
'^cturin o
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
WOISEY-
FOR UNDERWEAR COMFORT
Wolsey Pure Wool Underwear keeps the warmth in and the
cold out; it maintains the body at an equable temperature;
it absorbs perspiration and keeps mischievous chills at
bay. Its splendid softness and elasticity, its perfect fit, its
freedom from chafing seams, all make for unrivalled comfort.
Wear Wolsey garments next
your skin by night and day
and note the splendid differ-
ence Wolsey makes, not only
to your comfort, but to health
GUARANTEE D
UNSHRINKABLE
PURE WOOL
selected by experts
for its durability
and sound quality.
Wolsey Pure Wool Under
wear is made for service ,
its skilful shaping and splen-
did workmanship conduce
to your entire satisfaction
REPLACED IF
IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Pare Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is sold everywhere in a wide variety
of garments, and in many weights, sizes and qualities, for men, women, and children.
POT POURRI
Stands for Quality.”
■“•01 The Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of.io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars. —A fragrant smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for l/= ; 18/6 per 100.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco. — 40Z. tins, 2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI ” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients irl country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SENSATIONAL TERMS!
SUBDIVISION OF THE FAMOUS and WELL-KNOWN
F elton 1 state
DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND
For 25 Years the home of the late HON. JAS. TYSON, M.L.C., the
place which he called “THE GARDEN OF AUSTRALIA,” situated
close to the Sydney-Brisbane Railway Line, 18 miles South of Toowoomba
Comprising' 34.500 Acres Freehold
WILL BE SOLD BY AUCTION AT
CAMBOOYA, on THURSDAY, 29th JUNE, 1911
At 1 p.m., on arrival of the Brisbane Mail Train.
In blocks of from 80 to 3,000 Acres (which includes the Homestead Portion).
Southbrook Railway Station only 3 miles from the Estate, Broxburn Rail-
way Station 4 miles, Pittsworth Railway Station 5 miles, Cambooya Railway
Station 6 miles, Greenmount Railway Station 4 miles, Nobby Railway Station
6 miles, and Clifton Railway Station 10 miles.
Cheese and Butter Factories at Pittsworth and Southbrook. Butter Factory
at Clifton, and Cheese Factories at Cambooya and Greenmount.
This is, without doubt, the best property on the Darling Downs, and was one
of the earliest properties made Freehold by the late Hon. Jas. Tyson when he
had the pick of the whole of the Country,
The whole of the Estate is admirably adapted for Dairying, LUCERNE
GROWING, Maize, Wheat, Barley, Oats and Potatoes, and a large area
of the country is ready for the plough.
Ideal Fattening, Breeding, and Lamb-raising Country.
Watered by Hodgson’s Creek, a never failing stream running through the
centre of the Property.
Subartesian Water easily obtained all over the Property at from 30 to 80 feet.
Rainfall averages over 30 inches per annum.
NOTE THE REMARKABLE TERMS.
TERMS :-15 Per Cent. DEPOSIT, NO FURTHER PRINCIPAL FOR
10 YEARS at buyer’s option; Interest at 5 per cent, payable half-yearly.
Recognised Agents, buying for or influencing buyers to purchase, will
receive one-half commission.
NO STATE LAND TAX.
Facilities to inspect, and for further information, lithographs, etc., apply to
Felton Estates Office, Cambooya, or
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES & MORTGAGE GO. LTD.
Auctioneers, BRISBANE. Q.
*
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be iegulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“Benger’s Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.
BENGERS FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., ez'eryivhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Pera”: If “Hamer” intends taking the station
bookkeepers’ case to a Wages Hoard (B. 25/5/’ll)
he’d better not rely too much on the amount of
work they do, because, as a whole, they haven’t bad
times as far as work goes. Suppose they do attend
the store, milk the cows, kill the sheep, etc. —it’s
onlv a matter of two cows a day and one sheep;
and as for the store, it’s only a matter of selling
two or three bobs’ worth a week. The two or three
stations where the children have to be taught are
not worth calling stations ; and even with the teach-
ing thrown in, the average station bookkeeper would
not put in eight hours. So “Hamer” had better
base his claim on low wages, and the fact that the
bookkeepers are not allowed to get married. 1 can
give him plenty names of men who only get £1 a
week and no trip to Sydney ; also the names of some
who have been presented with the sack for wanting
to get married.
The great Panama Canal scheme, which means a
big access of influence to the ports on the Pacific —
Sydney and ’Frisco, for example—is marvellous en-
gineeering. To get to the canal proper from the
two oceans, the Atlantic and the Pacific, ships will
have to go up a number of steps in the form of
locks. On the Atlantic side there will be three
locks, forming a stairway to the canal level; on the
Pacific side there will also be three. The surface-
level of the canal will be 85ft. above the surface-
level of the sea. Entering the canal from the At-
lantic at Colon, the dredged-out beginning of the
canal is shown by buoys. Ahead of the ship will be
the huge monoliths of the Gatun dam and locks.
The dam has bottled up the waters in the valley of
the Chagrcs River into a lake called Gatun Lake, 32
miles long. When the ship is hoisted by the locks
to the lake level, it will have a straight run over
the lake waters to the Pedro Miguel locks, where it
will take one step down, and then to the Mira Flores
locks, where it will take two steps down to the
Pacific Ocean at Panama. As the ships pass through
the lock gates will be lowered after them. The con-
struction work is employing nearly 40,000 men for
10 years, at a cost of £60,000,000 sterling. One
cutting—the Culebra —is nine miles long and 312 ft.
deep at its shallowest point. Truly, Uncle Sam can
talk about his boundaries being the Aurora Borealis,
the Equator, the Procession of the Equinoxes and
the Day of Judgment!
“Ajacks”: Adelaide to-day and 12 years ago. In
’99, aged 15, I got my first .job. College education,
good typist, and had a medal for 200 words a minute
at shorthand. One of 80 applicants who answered
the two-line advt., I was engaged 7s. 6d. a week.
Average hours, 9 till 6.30, and 8.45 till 2 p.m. on
Saturdays. To-day I read this; in the original it
is a two-inch daily paper advt.: —
LOOK, BOYS, READ!
I am in need of
AN OFFICE BOY.
Now is your opportunity to get into first-rate
employment in an office that will encourage
you. SPLENDID OPPORTUNITY. NO EX-
PERIENCE NECESSARY. Apply immediately,
B—- and .
At 15| I threw up a “real good job” (still 7s. 6d.),
and the boss didn’t care. I believe one of the eight
boys waiting on the mat to get my billet was killed
in the struggle to push in first. I got the same money
in a land agent’s office where the hours were easier.
I collected rents and put “To Let” notices on houses.
Daily we had applications for reductions of rentals.
To-day I read this advt.: —
£2. willingly given to anybody for right
rental 3- or 4-roomed cottage; rent 10s. or 12s.
“Riew,” this , office.
A lot of crackers were fired in Sydney Chinadom
a few weeks ago when the Full Court, on the appeal
of an opium “fence,” decided that, although the
poppy drug was in illegal possession, its theft was
punishable with the utmost indignation of the law.
An irate Chow who had been rooked of his money
and opium by the “fence,” did the very thing that
was least expected—he took the chance of being
convicted himself by hollering for the police. And
the “fence” went up for three years on a charge of
larceny. The confirmation of the sentence will go
a long way towards breaking up a notorious gang
that has been making big money by robbing the
harassed smuggler on the supposition that he
wouldn’t squeal, and that the Law wouldn’t take any
notice even if he did.
“Petramos”: He was a small man, and kept a
small newsagency where he did a small business. All
day he had been worried by people who wanted to
buy stamps, and he had no stamps. He said so
politely, but firmly ; and finally he made it clear to
the polished gentleman in the plug hat. “No, sir;
we do not keep stamps, but we have a fine brand of
hair-oil and a splendid acetylene gas plant. We can
supply you with a ton of hay or roll you home a ripe
water-melon. We can procure you a shipment of
Angora goats or sell you a sausage-roll, delivered at
your door, for tuppence. But we don’t sell stamps.”
The polished gentleman stared vacantly at the little
man. “Could you tell me where I could buy
stamps?’’ he asked. The little ‘man clasped his brow
as ’ agitatedly as a spiritualist getting a message
from Mars. “You might get them at the iron-
monger’s,” he said at length. “Or, then, again, the
ham shop will probably keep them. The brewery
round the corner is almost sure to have them, but
the managing-director is away. Of course there is
the marine store dealer’s, apd the ammunition com-
pany gives one away to every purchaser of a barrel
of gunpowder. But if I might be permitted to advise
you, I’d say ‘Go to the Devil.’ ”
“Hamer” : By investigation I have found that the
moving spirits in about 90 per cent, of the business
concerns which label themselves with names imply-
ing that they are more or less American are Aus-
tralians born and bred. If an Australian wants the
public to know that he is going to hustle and be
up-to-date, he considers that the best way to do it
is to stvle his concern the American Blankiness Co.
or the New York Meatless Meat Co., as the case may
be. Two leading “American” teeth merchants, for
instance, come, one from Young (N.S.W.) and the
other from Maoriland. Isn’t it about time that the
Australian who can hustle gave his country the
credit of producing him ? And isn’t it about time
that the Australian passed him a hint that, if he
gives Australia a back-hander in his present fashion,
it may lead to anaemia, and a sinking feeling in the
stomach, and chest troubles?
romance is dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ovster-haunt is like a dream
Wherein hlest souls may fare,
And from its rose-lit precincts stream
Rich scents and savors rare;
And as I gaze in joyaunce glad,
1 see, all framed in light,
Full many a noble Grecian, clad
In shirt-sleeves wondrous white!
As one that enters Heaven’s zone,
Bare-browed 1 pierce the shrine,
And sit me at a marble throne
ltich-stained with ruby wine.
Then, like some god from cloud o’erhead,
I thunder, “Kindly bring
Sauce, coffee, oysters, wine, and bread,
Butter, and everything!”
Swift at the word her venom pours
Fate, on my soul accurst:
I hear a great harsh voice that roars
“Pay up da monna first!”
I slowlv rise; I pause perchance
A moment ere I part
To send one searing, scorching glance
Straight to that Dago’s heart:
Then stalk forth, fuming, fit to bust,
And shake, with mental hoots,
That scabrous cookshop’s foetid dust
From off my scornful boots!
What! save at grimy shekel’s cost,
Shall Genius ne’er be fed?
Ah, nay ! The Golden Age is lost!
Ah, Woe ! Romance is dead !
N.S.NV.
AMBROSE M. T. VACUUM.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
The S. M. Herald (15/6/T1) was so
worried by the disproportionate increase of
the metropolitan population, as revealed by
the census, that it went to the trouble of
evolving a remedy for the evil: —
An adequate immigration policy must be planned,
and people brought out for the raising of food, meat,
wheat and butter —-not the raising of luxuries, which
need a Customs barrier to enable them to hold their
own.
The Herald certainly might have men-
tioned land monopoly and the mad habit of
dragging everything to the capitals; still, we
ought to be obliged to it for having defined
a “luxury.” A luxury, it seems, is any-
thing protected by a Customs duty. Soap
for instance, or boots, or shirts and hats, or
trousers. And since luxuries are things one
can do without on a pinch, the Herald pre-
sumably wouldn’t be shocked in its motherly
soul if it saw its food-producing immigrants
chasing the early cow clothed in a wheat-
sheaf.
(
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
uhjiuojoj
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
uhjiuojoj
Legal Notices.
WILLIAM ALMOND.
BY an Order of tlie Chancery Court of
the County Palatine of Durham (Eng-
land) made on the 17tli day of October
1906. In the matter of the Trusts of the
Will of JOHN ALMOND of the Queen’s
Head Inn West Auckland in the County
of Durham Innkeeper deceased an inquiry
was directed whether WILLIAM ALMOND
hereinafter named survived the above-named
John Almond and whether he is now living
or dead and if dead when he died and who
are his legal personal representatives.
Information is requested as to the where-
abouts of the said William Almond if alive
or if dead as to when and where he died and
who are his legal personal representatives.
The said William Almond or any person
or persons claiming under him are person-
ally or by their Solicitors on or before the
80th day of October 1911 to come in and
as to the said William Almond establish
his identity and as to any other claimants
prove their claims at the Chambers of the
Registrar of the said Court No. 19, Elvet
Bridge in the City of Durham, England, or
in default thereof such order will be made
in the premises as the Justice of the Case
mav require.
Friday the 10th day of November 1911
at half-past 11 o’clock in the forenoon at the
said Chambers is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the Claims.
Dated the 12th day of April 1911.
A. O. SMITH,
Registrar.
The said William Almond is believed to
have been born at Smethwich near Birming-
ham in England about 57 years ago, and
was a nephew of the said John Almond. He
was a Forgeman and lived for some time at
Lemington-on-Tyne and Consett both in
England and he went to Australia about
1891 and may have left there for South
Africa about seven years ago. If he was
alive on the 26th day of November 1903
he became entitled to a sum of upwards of
£3OO as part of the residuary estate of the
said John Almond.
GEO. WM. JENNINGS,
10, Market Place,
Bishop Auckland (England),
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Missing: Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of CHARLES
W. PILLING, late of Tas., would they please
communicate with his brother, THOMAS PILLING,
Shipwrights’ Point, Huon, Tas.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of JAMES
ESCREET (last heard of at Townsville, Queens-
land, five years ago), kindly communicate with
brother, GEORGE ESCREET, Carrajung, Victoria.
(MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
« EYE,
ointment
cures
SEM32
DIURETIC
KIDM'&BMDDfiR
REMEDY
3
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
m
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
to/nic
Ot>ramr>t>/e a!/ Chpmis/s
41 CLARTOODGSON&C9I/T? *
so!e Australasian Agents 73 YORKST.SYDNEY
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Patentees
of Australian Patent, No. 10,504, dated 20th
December, 1907, for —■
“Improvements relating to the Manufacture of
Hollow-rolled Metal Rods, Bars, and the like,”
are prepared to satisfy any demands and all
requirements of the Public respecting the said
Invention.
Further particulars and information obtainable
from COLLISON & CO., Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins
Street, Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, King Wil-
liam Street, Adelaide.
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Lmo Us Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising' Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to pet more HORSE-
POWER from vour Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF 'MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Tbe Acetylene Burner House).
S T JACOBS
OIL
Cures
RHEUMATISM
and Bodily Aches and Pains.
Of all Chemists and Stores
Why Remain Stout ?
SPRUDEL Reduction SALT
REDUCES YOUR WEIGHT BY BATHING.
REMOVES Superfluous Fat, and gives a slender,
firm, stylish figure. Merely use a little twice a week
in a warm bath. Don’t take nauseous drugs or starve
yourself. Don’t waste time in tiresome exercise.
SPRUDEL REDUCTION SALT enters the pores and
prevents formation of fat, AND REDUCES IT WHERE
IT EXISTS by transforming the fat into strength-
giving blood and muscle. It brings to your own
home the Salts such as ARE FOUND IN THE RE-
DUCING-BATH SPRINGS OF EUROPE. Patronised
by Royalty ; famous for centuries. Endorsed by the
Medical Profession.
WASH AWAY YOUR FAT.
Reduce it by a refreshing, toning bath at the rate
of one half-pound per day. Give it a fair trial.
Price 4/- per package, or Six Packages for 20/=,
Post Free In Plain, Sealed Wrapper.
CARL HUENERBEIN, Box 1541, G.P.0., Sydney.
Michelin
Tyres.
Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY : MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
THEATRE BUILDINCS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches : Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYD.siEV.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON,-Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF PANTOMIME,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 24,
MR. H. B. IRVING’S SEASON
will be inaugurated with
MR. H. B. IRVING as HAMLET,
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD as OPHELIA,
and HIS COMPLETE COMPANY of ENGLISH ARTISTS.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney-
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS EVENING, AT 7.50 SHARP.
ANOTHER TRIUMPH.
Spontaneous and Enthusiastic Applause Greeted the
First Performance of
THI? BALKAN PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual,
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
LAST NINE NIGHTS of
CLARKE AND MEYN ELL’S NEW OPERA COMPANY
in that Notable Musical Success,
THE GAY GORDONS.
SATURDAY, JULY 1, for the First Time in Sydney
THE GAY GRISETTK.
Box Plan at ELVY’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, GeOhge Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AY 7.50,
The Great Emotional, Sensational, Domestic Drama,
DRIVING A GIRL TO
DESTRUC TI ON.
Interpreted bv the Full Strength of GEORGE MARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra.
National amphitheatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors .. Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd.
Governing Director .. .. Mr. James Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Matinees—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
LAST NIGHTS, DAISY HARCOURT.
RE-APPEAIiANOE OF HESSIK.
HUGHES AND PRIOR. 4 MUSICAL GARDINERS, i
LENNON TRIO. GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
PRICES AS USUAL. CHEAPEST IN TOWN.
TRIAL NIGHTS, EVERY FRIDAY EVENING.
ST. JAMES’ HALL, Phillip Street, Sydney.
Direction Nicholson & Co. Ltd. SATURDAY, JULY 1,
Vocal Recital by NELSON ILLINGWORTH, Basso,
who will render, together with songs by Mozart, Brahms,
Strauss, Chadwick and Mallinson, “ King Mark’s Address”
from Tristran and Isoida for the first time in Australia.
New songs by Alfred Hill. The Austral String Quartet,
in response to many requests, will again render Alfred
Hill’s Maqri Quartet. Assisting Artists: Madame Grace
Miller-Ward, Laurence Godfrey Smith, Cyril Monk, G.
Christian Hellemann. Prices 4s. (Reserved) 2s. Plan at
Nicholson’s. GEORGE S. HOLBURN, Concert Manager.
THE SHEFFIELD
CHOIR.
Direction .. .. DR. CHARLES HARRISS.
AUSTRALASIAN ITINERARY.
NEW ZEALAND ...
HOBART
MELBOURNE
BALLARAT
ADELAIDE
PERTH
.TUNE 26 to JULY 9.
JULY 13.
JULY 15 to 22.
JULY 21.
JULY 26 to 27.
AUGUST 3.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Sole Australasian Manager,
Sydney, c/o W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd.
Melbourne— c/o Allan & Co.
Adelaide— c/o Marshall & Sons.
Perth— c/o Nicholson & Co.
TH E L.YCEUM
* - FVF.RY EYENING AT 8
Matikees-Weducsbays Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30. |
C PEN«R'SIf[ATREKOPt (?.
J PICTURES
-» PRE SUPER. I OK TO /ILL OTHERS.
Popular Prices .»>- Plata at Palings^
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
New princess theatrf
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WKST’S PICTUB.ES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.’.’
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
gYDNEYGLA C I A R I U M.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY. .
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
Admission —2/- ; Children : Morning & Afternoon only, 1/-
Children : Saturday Morning only, (id.
SKATE HIRE-SIXPENCE.
Private Instruction may be Booked for Hours during
and between the Sessions.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manasrer—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
THE ZANFRELLAS, Novelty Acrobats and Equilibrists.
THE TWO LILLIES, in their Celebrated Mirror Illusion.
GODFREY JAMES, the Singing Collier.
DELING, King of the Slack Wire.
ARTHUR CROXON, England’s Monologue Entertainer.
EUNICE and ZENA, Instrumentalists and Vocalists.
THE KAVANAGII BOYS. THE MARLOWE SISTERS
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Palifitt’s.
OPE R A HOUSE, IVIE LBOURN £.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAMBERTI, in Impersonations of Great Masters of Music.
BLANCHE CHARMEROY, Musical Artiste.
ALF HOLT, Whistling Comedian.
CADWELL & VERNE, Musical Comedy Artists.
BLACK and WHITE, Lady Acrobats.
PEGGY PRYDE, Comedienne.
Plan at Allan’s. jfcT PRICES—3s,, 25., Is-
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
Sole Lessee and Manager : Wiw.tam Anderson.
EVERY EVENING,
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the Great Naval Drama,
A WOMAN OF PLEASURE.
Reappearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OU n MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
HARRY PLIMMER & REYNOLDS DENNISTON CO. in
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER.
Played Wyndham’s Theatre, London, Seven Consecutive
Months.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
yHEATRE ROYAL, 'MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 24,
FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S CO. in
A. POOL THERE WAS.
LAST TWO WEEKS OF SEASON.
Plans at Allan’s. J3T PRICES AS USUAL.
Melbourne repertory theatre.
Director ; Grecian McMahon.
JUNE 26, JULY 3—O'TIIE TWO MR. WETIIKRfiYS”
and “ THE CRITIC” (Act II.).
JUNE 29, JULY JOHN GABRIEL BORKMAN,”
At the TURN VEREIN HALL.
Tickets, 45., 35., Is. 6d. : Sets of Six Tickets,.2ls., 155.,
6s. ; on sale at Allan’s and The Book Lovers’ Library.
BOX PLAN, at ALLAN’S, JUNE 23. Prospectus on
t application at Rooms, Oxford Chambers, Bourke Street.
OWN HALL, ivTE LBOU R N E.
Direction of J. & N. Tait.
JUNE 27, JUNE 29, JULY 5.
THREE RECITALS by
LEONARD BORWrCK,
“THE GREATEST OF ALL ENGLISH PIANISTS.”
“Leonard Borwick plays Chopin with a spirit and
verve, and a degree of lightness and delicacy which is not
only enchanting in itself, but, coming from an English-
man, is something phenomenal.”— Zeitung Munich.
BOX PLAN OPENS at ALLAN’S, JUNE 21.
JHE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
LAST PERFORMANCES.
SOUSA
AND HIS
BAND
OF’6O PERFORMERS. ;
MATINEES EVERY AFTERNOON.
PRICES: 55., 38., 2s. Plan at Glenn.
*A#EST'S palace meuournk.
THE REST WEST’S PICTURES, THK BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. , OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
An v Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
W IRTHS OLYMPIA
.EVERY EVENING AT 8 ——
Matinees-Wedhesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at Zoo.
C PENCER'SIfEATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
ARE SUPER.IOR. TO ,/fI.L OTHERS.*
Popular Prices —Plain as usual^
Lykic theatre, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic,
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER ”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “ Mack ” Screen, tog-ether with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at„
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cate.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICI
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS
CON VERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2ft.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £lB 18s., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mhdhournk Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Anm.Aiiiß & Frkmanti.k Aoknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw.. 12,18 ft Regd. Tons
OSTERLEY „ „ 12 129
OTRANTO.. „ „ . 12 124
OTWAY .. „ „ .. 12,077
OItSOVA „ ~ .. 12,036
ORONTES . „ „ .. 9,023
OMR AII . 8,282
OPHIR .. 6,814
ORAM A (Building) ~ .. 13,000
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and lnxurion
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-lnxe ; State-rooms, wit
bedsteads; Single Perth Rooms, Private Bathrooms
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
l2 Martin Pi.ack, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)ortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sis.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Hern Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Baukiiur business.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED ..... £1,197,127
PAJILUP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P« Manning, Kt,, Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.P, ; Chas. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Siirldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwqod, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 6
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors : JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. •
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, E^q.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Gove. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. I). Day. A«st. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The (olonial (flulual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
' FOR
‘Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
; Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident and Sickness Assurance.
llrap Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling:. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
1 CiiißF Office for New South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH BTREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hot. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord D eutscher ivloyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt. Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER PEWEZ & VAN ROMPAOY, Melbourne ;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO. , Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
The bulletin post cards-ncw
Series. IV., V.. VJ. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
uhjiuojoj
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC , 12,000 tons, to sail about
July 5.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 2.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARMS —(Jane Town or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
f New Steamer. * Not taking- Passengers.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
\ YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
CEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them ? ”
describing many delightful Island trips from
/io upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
uhjiuojoj
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINCS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE; MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending- over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on favorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds or Certificated 0. P's.
and Associated lnterest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable nr. any Branch or Post Office Ajrencv,- or from
Crown Lands Agents and at the Head Office, MOOItE STREFT. SYDNEY. J. 11. Davikh.’Secretary,
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up
Reserve
Reserve
Capital
Fund -
Liability -
DIRECTORS:
iSirtS?
£2,913,820
£1,950,000
£2,913,820
£7,7 77,640
The Hon. O. Iv. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Rlack, AI.L.C.
Thomas Bnekland. Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Tlie lion. Sir Normand MacLanrin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. : William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
«r”u e^; cl r 1 office—Georgre st- > s y dne y- London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 330 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 100,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Tasmania, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents through out the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan
and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West Indies
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. . Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
- J. RUSSELL'FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of iSydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£ M ,
£1,5(10.000 0 0
1,420,000 0 0
1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiien. Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
IV. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin -L« ne.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; lion. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Pull Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 3Q Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE’
-Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
17IIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
- PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP '.. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .# £40,000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. m.<£., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. MrPratt: J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LU.D. : Alexander M'Gracken.
JAMES RORROWMAN, Manager.
FREI)K. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, June 24 and
July 22
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Grant.ala, July 1.
(Fitted Wireless Tele-
graphy.)
S.S. Wollowra, July 8.
Best find Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchansreahle after the
first Port of call with other imter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained'
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO.. LTD..
Asrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED . ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE;.
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-Htreet, Sydney.
F. H. A.
Federal-Hould er-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
S.S. “FIFESHIRE,”
10,000 Tons. E. T. Cremkr, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 24th June
„ „ „ SYDNEY .. sth July
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ Bth July
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE ~ 11th July
Tiie saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
t wo, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, With dining room on the upper deck.
Weil lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES .. .. £49 10s. £13135. £15155. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN &CO., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, MeEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Grand Central Hotel
ADELAIDE
To be opened on the 20th JUNE, 1911.
THIS Hotel is the best appointed in the Common-
wealth. CENTRAL AND COMFORTABLE.
Magnificent Dining Hall, Elegant Drawing-
room, Spacious Winter Garden and Lounges, Pro-
menade and Garden Roof, and Sumptuous Guest
Apartments. EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Private Dinners, Afternoon Teas, At Homes and
Wedding Parties a Specialty.
Hot and cold water throughout. Elevators work-
ing day and night. One minute from Electric Car.
Tariff from 12/- per day.
D. WALKER BELL, Manager.'
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET, Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
j England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and HO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINIvWORTH, Manager.
LONDON


CAIRNS.
The Great Winter Pleasure
Trip to Sunny Queensland
v>;
&
< v , -
SEEN
THROUGH
A CAIRNS
TUNNEL.
CAIRNS
is picturesquely situated, has a healthy
climate, and the temperature in winter
seldom falls below 50°. First-class
hotel accommodation at Cairns and
Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be
obtained at a reasonable tariff, and the
fishing at Cairns is excellent. A trip
to the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North
Queensland should not be missed.
For Fares and all Particulars
.. . apply to ...
HOWARD SMITH GO. LTD
by Modern
Inter-State
Steamships.
SMOOTH WATER
SPRING-LIKE CLIMATE.
Up-to-Date and Comfortable
Steamships.
BARRON GORGE.
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows: —
“ T~''OR the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs between the
f™ 1 Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest of the sea trips of Aus-
tralasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands, covered with foliage strange to
southern eyes, and the boat is ever rounding headlands, streaming into fine bays and estuaries. The
famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.”
■ .
::
■H
m
m
m
Hi
\
l
m
I
m
m i
SB
/
m
- ,
‘ ' /
A A:.
m
*U»ss„
*******
• ' .<<;
V , ...
ffl
w.
,
SB
.. J
1
ft
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
WEST AUSTRALIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
VICTORIA. NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND
and all poris iri each
AUSTRALIAN STATE
i
ES SEE
ADELAIDE, S. C? UD a.U.S.N-.C? LIMITED
HOWARD SMITH C«L T ? HUDDART PARKER* C°P T yL TD
M9ILWRAITH, M C EACHARN * C° PIT L ro
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO. LTD.
AUSTRALASIAN UNITED STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD


Children Thrive v
on ANGIER’S.
There is nothing better for delicate children than a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. Bland and pleasant,
soothing alike to throat, lungs, stomach and intestines,
an aid to appetite and digestion, and a splendid tonic and
builder, it is the ideal remedy for children's ailments, and
no mother should be without a bottle in the house. The
medical profession prescribe Angier’s Emulsion not only
for coughs, bronchitis, whooping cough and all lung
affections, but also for scrofula, rickets and all wasting
diseases. Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
“THE CHANGE IN HER IS WONDERFUL.”
. .8 Hampden Street, North Sydney, Aus.
Dear Sirs, —My little girl has been a constant anxiety owing to
loss of appetite and a very trying cough. I was so pleased to see
her relish her food after she had had a sample bottle of Angier’s
that I got a large (4/6) bottle, which she has just finished. The
change in her is wonderful; the cough is quite gone, she has put on
firm flesh and has a good colour and appetite. To have accomplished
this with a really palatable mixture is a great cause of thankfulness
to me and you have my full consent to publish this letter in case it
may persuade other mothers to try Angier's Emulsion.
(Signed) Mrs. K. WILKINS.
A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage; mention this paper. -
\ THE ANGIER CHEMICAL. CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
I !
1 fc:
Mi
l
Mi
NfWl
G-»
uhjiuojoj
PIKE BROTHERS Limited.
—.l ■■■■■■ r,,.-. jj,
21 j- Boots.
BUILT ON SMART MEDIUM=SHAPED LASTS!
In Black, Qlace Kid, Box Calf
Patent Colt and Tan Willow Calf.
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, & TOOWOOMBA.
IN BANANA LAND
The Denham Cabinet, not content with
passing lines last session to the tune of ten
millions, announces a few more for next
session. As to finance —well, it got £l4O
from fining a few gamblers the other day,
and now feels fit to tackle anything.
The Scottish Commission deals Fat a
heavy one by “warning Australian employ-
ers to be less insistent on employees being
men without wives or families.” The pluto-
cratic rags that have been quoting the
Scotch Commission so abundantly have
somehow overlooked that item.
The boom in land values is felt even in
the far, far North. At Inisfail (Gerald-
ton), on June 13, one William Varney sold
50 acres of sugar land at the modest price
or £6O per acre! And this is away up
where the population doesn’t average one
to every three square miles.
“Hermit”: The northern fraction of the
Australian military forces has been in camp
at Townsville, and the officers’ mess has had
the joy of entertaining Lord Dudley. The
G.-G. may, however, not be the only dis-
tinguished visitor: the cooks of the officers'
mess were Japs, and, for all I know, may
be generals in disguise. Anyhow, what-
ever they are, what has the Commonwealth
Government got to say about the employ-
ment of Japs in Australian military camps
in any capacity whatever?
Died in Bx-isbane, aged 52, E. M. Lilley,
K.C., eldest son of Charles Lilley, Banana
land’s second Chief Justice. He was edu-
cated at the Brisbane Grammar School, and
was articled to E. J. C. Browne, of Little
and Browne. He then “read” with G. R.
Harding, and, when Harding went on the
Bench, with S. W. Griffith, now Chief Jus-
tice of Australia. Called to the Bar in
1882, he soon made his mark, and was in
most big Brisbane cases during the last eight
or 10 years.
The Queensland cane-cocky is beginning to
wonder if Pirate Ilinderprise is quite the
goods it is cracked up to be. Said 11. A.
Cattermull, president of the Cane Growers’
Association, speaking at a big growers’ meet-
ing the other day at Bundaberg:—
As a matter of fact, we cannot tell the worker
that the profits to enable all sections to do well are
not in the industry; all we can tell him is that, as
growers, we are not getting our due share of these
profits. For instance, according to the balance-sheet
of the C.S.R. Co., that monopoly shows a profit for
the past year of £404,142. Think of it, gentlemen.
This is equal to £1 out of every £8 earned from
i the industry in Australia going to swell dividends
for the shareholders of the C.S.R. Co. dearly that
is the end of the industry at which the mischief is
being done; that is the end of the industry at which
the profits are so large that grower and worker alike
are suffering from so unfair a distribution.
Nevertheless, when a recent deputation sug-
gested a State refinery as a probable method
of reconciling decent wages with a fair profit
for the growers, Digby Denham side-stepped
the idea as though it were a footpad.
Canon Jones, of Indooroopilly (Brisbane),
celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of his ar-
rival as a full-blown parson the other day.
He came out from the Cold Country with
Bishop Tufnell, the first Anglican Gaiters
of Brisbane, in 1859, and was the first An-
glican pilot licensed to practise in Banana-
land.
“Old Salt” : lie Bulletin pars reporting
that a Queensland jelly-fish the other day
killed a boy who was bathing up North.
One—l don’t expect it was the same one—
stunned the steamer Guthrie for three hours
on her last trip to Singapore. It hap-
pened in the Brisbane River, where the jelly-
fish swarm. Not only were the engines
thrown out of commission for the three
hours, but when the vessel got to Towns-
ville a part of the machinery had to be sent
ashore for repair.
MRS. MANGLES : “Now yer up
in the world., Mrs. Oldham,
I expects yer'll be dressin ’
fer dinner
MRS. OLDHAM (who has come in for wealth) Lor love, yer, Mrs. Mangles, we dresses
fer breakfast."
Bananqland's Railway Commissioner has
hitherto had £2250 a year; but, though
Charles Evans should be as good a man as
any of them, his appointment is at the cut
rate qf £1750.
Banqnaland’s new Railway Commissioner
Evans is giving the railway men of the
northern State a clean sheet as from July 1.
The old record book is to be done away with,
and a new system is to be introduced. Each
employee will be given a sheet upon which
there is a large space for particulars as to
service, promotions, commendations, etc.,
and a small space for fines, disratements
and cautions ; but while the large space will
he filled in with his record up to date, the
small one will start off in virgin purity.
Only future offences will he entered there.
The Bananaland Government is going to
give its first-class prisoners a few luxuries.
Their cells are to be supplied with a locker,
a table, a chair, pegs for hanging pictures
on, and a vase for flowers. Also, after being
locked up and bedded down for the night,
W. Sikes will be handed a book (selected)
and a light to read it by—in strict modera-
tion.
Bananaland, prolific in nearly everything,
is specially prolific in pests. The cane-beetle
has lately assumed the dimensions of Jack
Johnson, and the Government is on the look
out for an entomologist capable of knocking
the trouble out. Up north, at Mackay,
Mossman, Herbert and Cairns, local funds
are being subscribed, and the State is adding
its lOs.-in-the-f subsidy to the stake-money.
“Sunbeam’’: The women needn’t be given
all the blame for supporting the cheap and
nasty alien. Up here in Mt. Elliott
where the copper grows, and the A.W.A.
takes all kinds of care that there is no
loophole for the non-unionist or “scab”
white man, two Chows are doing flourishing
business, to the detriment of Australian
traders. And most of the flourish is made
possible by the miners who cross the hand
of the Yellow Agony with silver in return
for the welli ni cabbagee and all li’ fluit
ripened under John’s virtuous couch and
hawked to the doors of the canvas resi-
dences.
“Rough Coal”: “Geofred” is right when
he says that the “big-gun” shearer isn’t
worth considerng as champion unless he
combines quantity and quality from start to
cut-out. What sort of a real champion is
the “one-day sprinter” who tomahawks a
brag tally and spends the next day recuper-
ating? That’s where Ewen Cameron
proved invincible. His tallies seldom
varied, unless he found a “gun” trying
to force the pace, and then we knew what
to expect. In 1897 I saw him go through
Mutooroo, in the nor’-east of South Aus.,
where we shore 92,000 sheep, and he averaged
throughout within a trifle of 200 per day,
and the cut would have satisfied the most
avaricious cockie. Old man as he is now
(over 60), he would make things sultry if
he would come from his retirement on his
Queensland farm, and Zimmerle’s admirers
would not lack wagers over a six weeks’
run, among rough, wrinkled wethers, un-
der expert judges.
The Strife of the Street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We laugh at the voice of sweet Pity,
What time we press on in the street;
In the cold, selfish lust of the city
We stride with our merciless feet;
And they who go down in the battle
Are trampled and mangled as cattle;
No ear can we spare for the cry or the prayer
In the strife of the pitiless street.
We heed not the plea of the tender,
When trumpets are loud in the street;
The gentle find ne’er a defender,
When furies with furies compete.
We crush with a curse what is nearest,
We stamp in the dust on the dearest;
With claw and with tooth do we rend without ruth
In the strife of the pitiless street.
With ruin, red ruin and ravage,
Goes on the mad strife of the street;
No cave-dwelling, blood-drinking savage
To match with our warriors were meet;
The blood of mad Roma’s arena,
The tearing of wolf and hyena,
Gome back like a dream when we hark to the
scream
Of the strife in the pitiless street!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 17, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
We are in the throes of Coronation pre-
liminaries, and Mr. and Mrs. Hayseed, with
all the little Spear-grasses, are blowing into
town, to be put up by their friends or taken
down by the hotelkeeper. Some of them
had a peep at the dress-rehearsals, in the Ex-
hibition Grounds on Friday, of the children’s
pageant, where a correct-to-card representa-
tion of the Coronation ceremony was given
by a multitude of miniature dukes and duch-
esses, counts and countesses, standard bear-
ers, knights of the privy seal and the public
walrus, earls and girls, and all the other trade
marks of Royalty as blown on the bottle of
history.
Announced that our Agent-General is
about to relinquish the pursuit of the shy and
elusive emigrant, and. take a trip out here,
possibly to collect a daughter and son-in-law
who are honeymooning in the vicinity. I
hope he isn’t coming in one of the six vessels
which are to arrive or, anyhow, are to start
with Denham’s foreign railway navvies. No-
body seems to know where those boats came
from, but for some mysterious reason there
are several people who are prepared to take
a shade of odds as to where they are most
likely to so. During A.-G. Robinson’s ab-
sence, ex-Gov. Lamington will be civil to the
State’s pawnbroker in Fogdom.
The death of Edwyn Lilley, K.C., half-
masted most of the flags in the city on
Thursday. He never rallied from the paralytic
seizure that struck him down 10 days ago,
and passed on to wherever decent men go,
amidst general regret.
Dr. Coe took unto himself a bride! on
Wednesday, in the person of Connie McNab,
daughter of Alex. McNab, bowler and law-
yer. The ceremony was at All Saints’, and
the bridal swathing was of cream satin.
The most striking costume at the gathering
was worn by Mrs. Hunter Laidlaw, an aunt
of the ex-single lady, who draped her hand-
some person in black velvet and lace over
cream satin, and topped it with a Very
French roof.
The Miss Hook Co., or the Arcadians, as
they loved to be called, did fine business here-
abouts, and departed flower-laden and much
supped, particularly a small red-headed
maiden who is so very attractive that Aunt
Eliza says she can’t be nice.
The Brisbane rowing boys framed their
annual hop on Wednesday evening in a red
and black color-scheme. Mrs. Ernie Baynes
headed the ladies’ committee, and Mr. Hughes
was the hard-worked sec. Everybody else
enjoyed it thoroughly.
Singer Lottie Richter will shortly take her
very pure soprano voice to the Old World to
get a specal polish upon the top notes.
They’re worth polishing somewhere.
Word reaches me from a travelling friend
who has been near Melba that the singer has
beep cultivating a quite angelic temper, and
is likely to get through the Australian opera
season in the best of humors.
Miss Tempe Pigott, who has made a hit
with the Plimmer-Denniston co. in “No-
body’s Daughter,” hails from Brisbane, and
was well known for her earlier stage work
with amateurs. In one amateur show she
so fired a character part that the profession-
al “star” was blown out of the limelight, and
the rest of the co. hastily dispersed.
A wandering pearler from the north-west
tells me that “international complications”
are loudly talked in the Dutch East Incjies
over the recent seizure of two pearling luggers
150 miles off Australian shores by the gun-
boat Gayundah. He wants to know where
Australia got more than the recognised
three-mile limit, and I didn’t charge him any-
thing for advising him to wait, when he would
learn some points at law that will be prdfit-
able to all northern pearlers and trepangers.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
A great Australian, a man of brilliantly-
original ideas, is Willie Watt, Acting-Pre-
mier of Victoria. He lias ordered that the
prisoners in Pentridge Gaol shall celebrate
Coronation Day by a “typical British din-
ner of roast beef and plum duff.”
. Within twelve mouths three Anglican
bishops in the Maoriland province (which
includes Melanesia) have resigned—Neligan
of Auckland, Wallis of Wellington, and Wil-
son of Melanesia. Now Bishop Mules, of
Nelson, who is 74, and Bishop Nevill, of
Dunedin, who is the same, are thinking of
doing likewise, and already the cloister and
the hearth are agitated as to whether the
demand for more bishop will be met with
imported article, or whether local industry
is to be given a chance like it had in Wel-
lington recently, when Bishop Sprott was
appointed.
J. W. Allpass, who died in Sydney a few
days ago, was the last of five trained school-
teachers brought out from Britain in 1855,
to help establish the State school system
in Australia. He lived to be head-master
at Fort-street, and inspector at Newcastle,
Bathurst and Sydney.
Bookseller Will Andrade, the other evening, in
Melbourne, was arraigned before an enthusiastic
little shivoo to celebrate his return from a 15 months’
jaunt around the globe. Will has been everywhere
and seen everything, with the result that he ds a
more confirmed Australian that ever. He says he
prefers Bourke-street to Bond-street, and would rather
be governed by Andy Fisher than either Roosevelt,
the Kaiser, or the House of Lords.*


n
F©
'
mmern
m
\
THATS
Penfolds


NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
THE
OHlfl*
(REGIS
TEREO)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C? ta
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
1
&
4
9
*
i
a
Australian Ladies^
sometimes wonder what
to offer the friend who calls.
If you give a cup of.
Van Houten’s Cocoa
you are bound to please.
Van Houten's Cocoa is pure,
soluble, easily digested
and highly nourishing.
It is a delicious beverage,
and if you do not know
it, ask your Grocer
store-keeper or
chemist for a
free .sample.
ftOUTf^
LETTERS COPIED,
WHILE WRITING
By Using Your Own Letter
Paper, Invoices,
etc., WITH THE
'NSC/ 200
PATENT ZANETIC
copying Boo^
&
$
You simply insert
your writing paper
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford
Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com
plete NSC/100 Copying 200 full size 10m. x 8m
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
WHOLESALE ACENTS WANTED.
•‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Uougns aucj
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
uhjiuojoj
l&k Wo Wot\\er 'NftWouX. \\.
V ow request,.
V
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
15-17 Market Street, Sydney
uhjiuojoj
V
rr
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
eourse for the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
is highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLE AGENT —
Q ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
uhjiuojoj
uhjiuojojuhjiuojoj
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
THE life history of a FERRO ENGINE would be
very interesting were we to follow it from its
embryonic stage on the blue prints of the
designers, through the various phases of infantile
life, till it emerges from the factory to be transported
to some particular spot on old mother earth, to fulfil
its destiny as the WILLING SLAVE OF INDUSTRY.
From icy pole to torrid zone, from far-off Alaska
to Australia, the sun never sets on the “ FERRO.”
THE CURSE OF ADAM has no terrors for the
men who own them. A man must needs sweet, but
he can sweat to better advantage than by yanking a
saw, pump handle or chaffcutter. Turn these jobs
over to th; “ FERRO ” ; they are built to do them.
If you do not happen to own one, get busy and
write the nearest agent, who will be only too happy
to suggest the right sweat=preventer for the job.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
H.P.
FERRO AGENTS:
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cyc j Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
..
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
•J The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
CRAC
(SENIOR)
m
Built to Beat the Band
IJTI.e Reeds aic iit&ue
of Bell Metal, and
are Tun-d to Perfec-
tion.
fYnrkfliflck Mouth Organs
Vl llvllUj UV/Ili MADE 1N SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3 J-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Rtctl" ... 1/•
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.^
Works : Birminghain, England^
uhjiuojoj
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. '1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Elite
Eaude Cologne
a
** r "^
ssSSESbii
Ngjftfrjf
iai»jjiii^
I py. j
hlss
'-v
.■ > f i JisM,”'*'!:"
> >4
*»,fs
W 5«
Sr' \':S‘
!?-*a- '-;.(■
n
mi
/ ''V =-^3>-
mC
&/> ;■'•
II
Obtainable from all leading establishments
uhjiuojoj
LJ?W.
THE TWO FRIENDS
Does your Horse know Solomon
Solution ? Its the greatest friend
he can have. In case of accident
—sprain, cut, sore shoulder or
back, girthgalls, etc., it is invalu-
able —and “a friend in-need is a
friend indeed.”
Solomon
Solution
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists Stores,
and Saddlers everywhere. Post Free
for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” —Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.


excellent Company—
£
<3OVCPNMCNT GIMGdNTEED
The Whisky, you will
agree, is Good, and it
will agree with you,
because it’s Good.
Ask for it at the
Bar—and get it.
/*>< I p
•TO
i I
&AS
H
irS
r /»
>v.v.
?-y.!
mm
15M;!
x
m
m
r»iV/
«£y/$l
- v
ws
OSi
m
‘m
aeju
«s
Mm
§s&«g
jifia
iiVV
s#*£
mm
:j;.w
'j/® :
. ■
L
i
i#‘i
fcsysCe
■\Y.o\v
\m
Mi
HSW-5V :
M
ssaa
i&sy*
SgUsg
Ss
r-S.V&Si
•wV#
H
mi
mi
m
npp
Si
Sit
Hi
yy-'i
WM-
\VKp-
m
,w'®
ASci'
fej;
4®
■
l .:-.\v>;
:W".Y-.
tern;
»>x-
|gj
li
li
%
iS&Sg
i;i<l
Ml
uhjiuojoj
Rll2 —Fine
Pearl and
Amethyst Set
15ct. Gold
Necklet, with
9ct. Gold
Ohain, £4 4/«
Rlo2—Handsome Pendant and Erooch,
set with Finest Quality Diamonds in
Platinum and Gold, £B5.
Dainty New Neck Jewellery.
HE new Pendants and Necklets are of rare
1 excellence, and come in a myriad of dainty
styles, exquisitely set with flawless gems of real
beauty, each true to name. Lovers of good
jewellery will do well to spend a few minutes
carefully viewing this new neck jewellery.
Merit and value are here linked together, so
as to bring quality Pendants and Necklets
within the reach of all.
D 5685 —Fine Pearl and Turquoise Se
15ct. Gold Plaque Pendant and Neck,
slide, with Chain, £l2/10/-
RlOS—lsct. Gold Pendant
and Brooch, set with Fine
White Pearls and Peridots,
£6.
Pendant, set
with Fine White
Pearls, 25/=
Rlo7—9ct. Gold
Charm, 6/6.
uhjiuojoj
RlO0 —15ct. Gold necklet., net. with
Fine White Baroque and Half-pearls,
£7/10/-
Elos—9ct. Gold Necklet,
set with Fine White Pearls
and Aquamarines, £5/5/-
Rllo—lsct. Gold Necklet, set with Fine
White Pearls and Peridots, £4/15/-
for
Illustrated
Catalogue—
free.
?TEW4OTD/IWSON‘(
(flusTPflLifl) Ltd
The Treasure House, Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
0
We
Pay
Postage on
Your
Purchases.


uhjiuojoj
UNDER VICE-REGAL
uhjiuojoj
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
RAM
RIFE
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
U there is a stream, sprincr or pond within a mile— Write for Free Plans and Book.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
RO
OFIMG
uhjiuojoj
Congo 2-ply or 3-ply Roofing will la3t Ten Years
THE io years of life is guaranteed by a genuine enforceable Surety Bond issued by
the Royal Exchange Assurance of London.
The guarantee is such that you get new roofing free of cnarge if Congo does not give
satisfaction.
You needn’t be an expert in roofing. You may not Know good material when you see
it, but you do know what “ten years’’ means. Sample and further information free
on request.
Congo Damp Course for making foundations damp-proof, .
AGENTS’ Noves Bros. (Sydne.v), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd.,
Melbourne'* Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton ;
Harrold Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ;
William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobart, Tasmania.
ICILMA
Dry SHAMPOO
POWDER.
3d.
PER
PACKET.
TWO SHAMPOOS FOR THREEPENCE.
LADIES !
When your hair gets dirty and greasy,
And the winds are cold and breezy,
There's a SHAMPOO DRY
That you should try
Called “ICILMA " —it's efficient and easy.
NO
WATER
AT ALL
NEEDED
USE
DRY
All Chemists and Storekeepers, or post free from
ICILMA DEPOT, 139 yorkltreet, SYDNEY.
■5
PETER PEN KNOWS THOUSANDS
WHO USE THE ONOTO PEN
“ But I am still looking for the men, women and children
who have writing to do —and do it without the Onoto Pen.
“ What a pen to have —the pen that doesn’t leak.
“It does not splutter, blot or scratch.
“It fills itself in a flash. Fancy that—no filler—no squirt. It fills
alone—a pen on its own.
“ I could say much nnre. But when it’s summed up Peter Pen’s
speech is ‘ Get a British-made
Price 13/- and upwards af all
stationers, jewellers and stores.
Booklet about it free from Thos
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 167,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or
the Australasian Representative,
Norman Raker, 50 York-st., Svdney
Important. —For those who require a larger pen, with a very flexible
nib, a special model—the new “G ” hsu, been put on the market. Try this
new “ C ” at your stationers.
Onoto
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Pen
Also ask for Onoto Ink
—the best for fountain
and all other pens.
A FORTUNE FOR FIVE SHILLINGS
a PRICELESS 1
Hundreds of Profitable Trade Secrets, now
first published.
Valuable Formulae for Many Processes,
hitherto jealously withheld.
Methods for Making a Multitude of
Marketable Articles.
Money-Making Wrinkles relating to Every
Trade and Manufacture.
I?fJTABUSE yourself in business and become independent
*1 Whether you are a man or woman, boy or girl, employed
■■■■ ■ w netner you are » -
or unemployed, you may secure a Constant Income ana
Respectable Eusiness, without hard work or worry, by making
at your own home in your spare time spine-©z the hundreds
Of articles which rind ready sale everywhere, the manufacture
of which is clearly described in this valuable book. Study
the careers of the most successful men of the world and you
find that many of them began in a small way by making
something in general request, and by gradual extension came
to own mammoth concerns. A single recipe properly
SS SX b ,Llw“nu"nt A. r St - ED™ r .r»dttundr«l.of .«m.l»r fro,„ »«*!, Huge tam u. M,
may be equal.ed or wS* of 388
pages 4 inches by 5 inches) is not tne production of some obschre gleaner from out-of-date sources, but is the result
fj ur wor i ff the Famous Scientist Dr. N. T. Oliver, who ha* selected and published only the best of the man> formnl»
delivery Cut this advertisement out at once, as u, wui uui *'"7 — ”
The Union RSanufacturinjS A Apiency C0.,299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
uhjiuojoj
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Rath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours. , ~ .
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office-or your own residence-direct
to the Majestic Hotel. . , .
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds. , T , „
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
THE BEST RAZOR FOR YOUR FACE!
uhjiuojoj
that gives a smooth, satisfactory shave under all con-
ditions, gliding over the skin, cutting, not scraping, the
hair —is the “ PLUM. ” It’s perfection. We guarantee it
for two years and will refund purchase money to any man
who does not find it as good as we say.
The Plum Razor,
10/6
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Send for our Free
Illustrated Price
List.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, In Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, Cd.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
“NIMROD”
THE CONNOISSEUR’S IDEAL.
“ Nuirod” has a distinctive, agreeable aroma which pleases
the smoker’s palate. No other tobacco can compare with it.
Try a lb., yon are sure to like it!
Fine (Wafer) and Medium Cut.
Jib., 2/-; posted, 2/3
t lb., 7/6 ; posted, 8/3
1 lb., 3/9; posted, 4/3
3 lb., 21/-j posted, 22/3
KISMET CIGARETTES, Virginian and Turkish
VIRGINIAN.
10 in a box, 9d.; posted, 10d.
25 in a box, 1/9; posted, 1/11
50 in a box, 3/6; posted, 3/10
100 in a box, 6/6 ; posted, 7/-
TURKISH.
10 in a box, 1/-; posted, 1/1
25 in a box, 2/6 ; posted, 2/8
50 in a box, 5/-; posted, 5/4
100 in a box, 9/-; posted, 9/6
uhjiuojoj
ANDREW McGEE,
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
/
') KELVIN
GENERATING SEI
ns
ASK US TO SEND
YOU A BOOKLET.
The . .
Kelvin Portable
Electricity
Generating Set.
The most reliable set you can buy at
anything like the price.
The Cinematograph Showman doesn’t
want anything better. It is noted for its
simplicity and its low fuel consumption.
Easy to start —gives ,no trouble —does
its work perfectly. ■
Two-cylinder engine, 5° amps, 60
volts, dynamo, shunt regulator, switch-
board, tool box, etc. ; quite complete,
and mounted on substantial truck with
removable sides and top.
JERDAN’S
‘ CINEMATOGRAPH
EXPERTS.**
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney
uhjiuojoj
Another Australian Record
on the “Alcock” Table.
TO the remarkable series of record breaks by Gray, Roberts, Williams and
Lindrum already performed on the “Alcock” Table, is added another record
by Lindrum. His latest achievement was in the Melbourne match with
Reece when hesecured the phenomenal break of 1239 1230 coming off tbered,
establishing two Australian'records. All these champions have expressed their
high opinion of Aicock,Tables, for huge breaks are only possible where the table
is ‘‘ true to angle,” with cushions, jaws and every other part absolutely perfect.
Both Gray and Lindrum owe their present reputations largely to the
“Alcock” Table. It is on these tables they practised and made many of their
largest breaks. We will gladly post you our illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK CO. PTY. LTD.,
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth.
397 George St., Sydney.
114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Lower Cuba Street, Wellington.


Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
17 O’Connell St. f
SYDNEY.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Full Particulars on Application.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ctnd Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices tn
England—
-1/I£, 2/9 & 4/6
uhjiuojoj
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INV/GORA TING
AUSTRALIA S
GREATEST
DEFENDER
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
F 1
'BRONCHITIS cunt
No.la f
FOR COUCHS
; «u n nil nit iinnw*
111 IMIIIIIM
i,WGMC4RNEJ
C
y
\
O
<2>
COLDS
UGH
ihwnwi****' 1
zsmmmm
—
_ ©
soreTmroats SOtot?
he soundest foundation upon which to build up our great National Defence
is without doubt Good Health. Under the new Commonwealth Defence Scheme
the Country will be bravely defended; but what of the Home? In time of
War, the Nation wants every man to be "fit".; The greatest Enemy of man,
woman and child is Disease, and the most common form of disease is .."just a cold"
but how many graves have been prematurely filled with the victims of Bronchitis, Asthma,
Pleurisy, Pneumonia and Consumption ? All these Diseases commenced with .."just a
cold". Never treat a Cold lightly. Tackle it at once with Hearne's Bronchitis Cure,
when a dose or two is generally sufficient to completely rout it. Many a sudden attack of
Croup in the night has been prevented through having a bottle at hand when wanted.
Never be without a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure in the House.
GET A BOTTLE ON YOUR WAY HOME
T


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
m
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 10-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7;Jlb. ; of 16-gauge, about 6|lb. ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d,
uhjiuojoj
Stevens' “Little Krag,"
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt'' action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, l length over all, 3Gin. ; weight about 3|lb.
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s. 6d.
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
©
so
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
and 16-gauge shot, 25/20 and 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7£lb.
£5 10s
uhjiuojoj
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
iTiTnd steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37£in., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d,
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [3
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED. 1
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of ttie Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
TRADE
B.S
.
i
I
4
THE MARK
OF QUALITY
The famous three piled rifles art
Only to be found stamped on
GENUINE
B. S. A. Cycle
FITTINGS
In the construction of B.S.A. Fittings only
the finest material is used and the most
skilled workmanship employed. Every part
is rigidly gauged and tested at each stage of
manufacture, so that the finished article is
unequalled being perfect in every part.
Get your new machine constructed of B.S.A.
Fittings by your own maker, but resolutely
refuse any substitute offered. The new Aus-
tralasian issue of the B.S.A. Handbook will
explain fully B.S.A. Fittings, Eadie Coasters,
Eadie Two-Speeds, Free Wheels, Etc. Send
a post card for free copy to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing the B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
5 Stock Exchange Budding
MELBOURNE
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®, sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
r Tha
Only kind \
wont
WjMDry on .
*1 the face 1
STAYING SOAP
WILLIAMS’ Shaving Stick
lasts six months and costs
ONE SHILLING, or one quarter
of a farthing per shave.
You can buy CHEAP and RANCID SOAP for half
this price, and thus save one-eighth of a farthing on
each shave* Is ft worth while?
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare' book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Jg 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of A Flirt, 'ls.l3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. San dow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Bod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook;, -SS. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d, Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Bead Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French' Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is fid.
uhjiuojoj
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. “W 1
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post- How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is, Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Super!; Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the pirst
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The W aybacks, Is „d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, rst Established I va?s.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
■posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King.
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Inger.soll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciikvasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 3CO latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. \V.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Lx-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). " Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (woids and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


uhjiuojoj
Why Not Now ?
DISCOVERY
Couc M
COLO
Cl?Ou'.
[INFLUENZA^
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
or the.
Throat, Luries |
Chest.
e. at q. aoo4
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
b-y HORROCKSES’
LATFST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
*
O'O’
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
lar<re bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l,
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/=
HEINDORFF BROS,,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago* sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
A Song of Red Things.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EED roses ! Nodding to me on the stem
Through scented gloom,
Ye hold all Eden’s fragrance by the
hem
With hands of bloom.
The velvet shadows of your petals’ fold
In wondrous wise
Gather all magic of the new and old —
God’s' painted sighs.
What never breeze or wavelet could express
He breathed in you—
The secret word, wrought in a rose’s dress,
Of all tie knew.
* * * *
Red hair! The splendid flower of woman-
hood,
Rich fold on fold,
Blossoms like burnished copper threads im-
bued
With blood of gold.
Such glory as tall angels learn to spin
On bobbins seven,
Whirring the wheels of rapture, void of sin,
In some chaste heaven.
Such flame as, streaming on the wind of life,
Sets hearts afire,
Sharpening the swords of kings for madder
strife
Than world’s desire.
Red leaves! With what a pomp the drift-
ing year
Falls to its close!
Gone is the poppy’s laughter, and the clear
Hue of the rose.
What flaunting splendors mock the greyer
sky,
The flying cloud—
Brave things condemned that wear, e’en as
they die,
Their liveries proud !
Spent blood of Autumn, sprinkled on the sod
Of a lost day,
Staining the white and fragrant feet of God,
Who walks that way !
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
The Swimmer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DARKNESS had encompassed Nano-
mea Island, and Watson, the trader
from Nanomaga, was gazing dreamily
at the curving lines of phosphorescent break-
ers as they tumbled over the barrier reef, and
sent even, smooth sheets of snow-white foam
across the flat table of reef into the placid
waters of the shallow lagoon.
For three weeks he had been the guest of
the native teacher, and now he was anxious
to return to Nanomaga, where he had been
buying copra, and for three months had
been awaiting the arrival of his firm’s
schooner to take away his produce; then,
weary of waiting, he took passage in a pass-
ing German vessel to Nanomea, knowing
that the schooner he was expecting would
call there on her way to Nanomaga. He
took up his quarters in the teacher’s house,
much to the anger and disgust of the one
white man on the island —a trader named
Winchcombly—a drink-besotted, unclean
creature, illiterate and violent-tempered.
Watson had paid Winchcombly a brief
visit according to- traders’ etiquette. The
result was a quick quarrel.
“So .you are Watson, are yoq?” he had
said rudely. “A nice sorter white man
you are to put up with a Kanaka mis-
sionary when there’s a white man livin’ here.
It’s the likes o’ you as makes these rotten
natives so saucy to white men.”
Watson eyed the man up and down, from
his bare, dirty feet to his unkempt head
and ragged, tousled beard.
“You may call yourself a white man,” he
said. “I don’t. I daresay, though, that if
you used a bar or two of soap you might
get to resemble one, you dirty ruffian.”
Winchcombly glared at him savagely, and
then began to roll up his shirt sleeves —but
very slowly.
Watson laughed.
“Oh, I’m ready for you, Mr. Winch-
combly—after you have had a wash. You
know where to find me.” Then he walked
away.
As he sat smoking, he was joined by the
burly, good-natured teacher. Then suddenly
there came a chorus of women’s voices from
the back of the mission house: “E mu afii i
Nanomaga!” (“There are fires on Nano-
maga !”)
The two men ran to where a group of
women were standing on a little knoll, from
which a clear view of the ocean to wind-
ward could be obtained, and there, plainly
visible, was the glow of five fires.
“What does it mean, Viliamu?” asked
Watson.
“Trouble,” the teacher replied.
“Aye, but what trouble?”
“Three fires mean, ‘We are coming to see
you, and leave here to-morrow night,’ ” re-
plied the teacher. “Four fires mean, ‘We
shall visit you in a month from to-night.’
Five fires is a call to us for help, for they
say, ‘We are attacked.’ I fear that it is a
war party from Nuitao.”
Nuitao was 60 miles from Nanomaga, and
there had always been bad blood between
the people of the islands, and Watson knew
the native mind and its proneness to yield
to sudden anger for some fancied insult or
injury.
He turned quickly to the teacher.
“Your people here will go to their help,
Viliamu ?”
The teacher looked distressed.
“They dare not —for the people of Nano-
maga have the mai lafa (measles) and no
one man of this island would venture there.”
Watson thought a minute, then made up
his mind.
“Viliamu, I must go to them. They
have been good people to me. Get me a
canoe with food and water. ’Tis but twelve
leagues.”
By the time the canoe was ready he was
on the beach, talking to the teacher. Pres-
ently the surrounding crowd opened out and
made way for a stalwart, dark-skinned man.
clothed only with an aridi, or girdle of grass,
which hung from waist to knees. His long
black hair, save where it was cut squarely
across the broad forehead, fell like a mantle
down his cheeks and upon his brawny shoul-
ders. In the hugely distended right ear-
lobe was a clasp knife, a stick of tobacco
and a pipe. Stuck in the girdle of grass
the haft of a heavy knife showed itself.
Striding up to the white man he greeted
him in the Tokelau dialect:
“White man, lam Tarria of Onotoa. I
will go with thee to Nanomaga. I fear no
man” —he made a contemptuous gesture to-
wards the surrounding natives. “For six
months have I been here; I work for these
people. They pay me in food, yet they
will give me no wife, and so I have been
fined many times for woman-stealing. I am
a fine man, and many women like me.”
Watson smiled. “Then thou wilt help
me to paddle the canoe to Nanomaga? ’Tis
12 leagues. And I will give thee five dol-
lars and a home in my house.”
“Did I ask for money? Give me a mat
to sleep on in thy house, food and tobacco,
and I am content.”
“Good. Let us away quickly.”
Then the canoe passed through the surf
and headed for Nanomaga.
When daylight broke Nanomaga was 16
miles distant, and not visible from the
canoes, it being so low. A sharp rain-squall
came away from the westward; it passed,
and then the wind began to blow with some
force from the north-west —an unusual thing
at that time of the year, and in their favor.
After a drink and a smoke, the men lit
their pipes and set to with their paddles
again, knowing that they would sight the low
dark line of Nanomaga in another two hours.
Ten minutes after they had had the drink
of Hollands, Watson was seized with great
pains. He was a strong man of five-and-
thirty, and hoped that the attack would soon
pass away. But the pains increased; he
ceased paddling, and a groan of agony es-
caped his twitching lips.
“Art thou ill, white man?” asked Tarria.
“Aye, friend, I suffer great pain,” and
the native saw that his bronzed face was
white and drawn.
“I, too, have strange pains—-like those
which people suffer when they eat poison-
fish. But there are no poison-fish at Nano-
mea.”
“Give me more grog, Tarria. My head
swims, and my skin burns.”
The native poured him out a drink
into a cocoanut shell. Watson drank
it neat. Tarria took none, but bent
to his paddle again. The white man es-
sayed to do the same, but his twitching fin-
gers could not close around the haft of the
paddle. For a minute or so he swayed to
and fro on ' the seat; then, without a cry,
toppled backwards into the bottom of the
canoe and lay there unconscious.
For some minutes Tarria waited for him
to come to, but he lay apparently life-
less, except for his twitching lips and fin-
gers. Then the native, himself suffering
pain, pillowed Watson’s head on a basket of
food and took to his paddle once more.
Another two hours passed and Tarria had
made good progress towards the island.
W T atson was now partly conscious, and
raised a feeble hand for water. The wind
had died away, and the canoe made less head-
way. On the eastern sea-rim a low, black
line of cloud was slowly rising, and Tarria
knew that it meant rain and wind —the lat-
ter dead ahead. He paddled vigorously.
The black cloud turned to grey and then
to white as it rose, and the squall was upon
them —fierce tumultuous rain and a savage
hum in the wind. For a quarter of an
hour Tarria had all he could do to keep the
canoe from broaching-to. The squall passed,
the hot sun came out, and the native, after
baling out the half-swamped canoe, filled
his pipe, and, after covering Watson’s face
with his handkerchief, resumed paddling.
Another two miles and the line of coco palms
stood out against the horizon. But every
now and then short, sharp rain-squalls com-
pelled him to bring to.
Gradually Watson regained consciousness
and tried to sit up; but his legs refused
duty and he sank back with a groan. Tar-
ria’s black, deep-set eyes looked at him pity-
ingly as he plunged in his paddle-blade, only
ceasing from his labor when the sick man
called for water.
As the canoe topped the ocean swell Tarria
caught sight of the white beach —six miles
distant. Then came a mishap—Tarria’s
paddle snapped clean across at the head of
the blade. He took up the one used by
Watson and examined it critically. It
was made of light “pua” wood, and he ut-
tered an exclamation of disgust when he
saw that the haft had been broken and
bound loosely with coir cinnet.
For some time a cow blackfish and her
calf had been keeping company with the
canoe, sometimes coming to within a few
yards of it, then sounding and making off
again. Suddenly the mother rose right in
front of the fragile craft, and Tarria, back-
ing water suddenly to avoid running into
the bulky creature, broke the second paddle.
He tried to repair it, but without success,
for this time it was the blade that went on
both sides. Watson heard his muttered
curses and asked feebly what was wrong.
“Friend, I have broken both paddles. Yet
it matters not. The shore is but a little
distance, and I can swim there and get
help.”
“How far?”
“Less than half a league. Nay, try not
to rise and look! Dost doubt my word ?
What is half a league or five leagues to
swimmers like we men of Onotoa! Rest
thee quietly till I return with some of thy
peopleand as he spoke he untied his thick
grass girdle and dropped it in the bottom of
the canoe.
“But,” protested Watson, speaking with
labored breath, “the bakwa!"
Tarria laughed. “Fear not for me, friend
—never yet hath a shark harmed me. And
thou art in great pain, and”— He stopped
suddenly, for he was about to add that the
canoe was still so far from the island that
the people might not notice it.
“And what, Tarria?”
“And the old women doctors of these
motu (islands) have great skill and will soon
cure thee. Now, friend, I go.”
“Stay, first take a strong drink of grog,
and give me some too. I shall drink it by-
and-hye.”


HEUMATISM
i
I
■
VKSv;
Leg Swelled to Enormous Size—Completely
Crippled Unable to Sleep Every
Description of Treatment Proves Useless*
A WONDERFUL VICTORY for ZAM-BUK.
HERE is a most remarkable story how
Zam-Buk triumphed over an old lady’s
agonising rheumatism.
“ A few months ago I was attacked by rheu-
matism in the right knee joint, and down the
front of the leg,” says Mrs. Sarah Oiler Ward,
47 Waterloo Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
N.S.W. “The pain was terrible, and my leg
was swollen to an enormous size. It was im-
possible for me to bend my leg, and even if I
tried to place it towards the ground I would cry
out, the pain was so bad. I spent many sleep-
less nights, and could not get any rest on
account of the torture. I tried all the remedies
MRS. WARD, who was cured of
rheumatics by Zam-Buk.
known-hot soda fomentations, and everything I could get to ease the tor-
ture ; but I seemed to get worse.
“ I was suffering terribly when my daughter came to visit me, and she at once recom-
mended Zam-Buk. She was sure it would cure me, as she and her husband h d put Itto some
severe tests and it had proved victorious in every case. More to please her than any-
thing I obtained some Zam-Buk and rubbed it into the affected parts. So soon as this splen-
did balm had worked well into the affected area I felt some relief, and the pains were not so
severe. I was so pleased that I persevered with the treatment.
« Zam-Buk soothed in a wonderful way, and completely banished all pain, at the same
time giving the limb a sense of suppleness. The swelling subsided, and soon I was able to
get out of bed and walk about. Zam-Buk cured me completely, and, although the weather
conditions have been pretty bad, I have not had any return of the complaint. lam so pleased
that I am free from this terrible complaint, and shall always have pleasure in recommending
Zam-Buk.”
More convincing evidence is impossible, and it all goes to prove
that Zam=Buk is the most perfect healing balm for all skin diseases
and injuries that has ever been produced, and that a pot should be
kept handy in every home and workshop.
Zam-Buk is invalu-1
able for piles, ring-
worm, eczema, bad 1
legs, running sores, (
open
wounds,
cuts,
burns,
bruises.
scratches, bites,
ulcers, sore heads,
chapped hands,
cold sores, sore
feet, chilblains, and
skin disease and in-
juries. Obtainable
of all chemists
and stores at Is.
6d. and 3s. 6d. per
pot.
Rub Zam-Buk in to Rub Pain Out.
am
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The questions of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the sßin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years#
PEARS
MatcHless for the Complexion.
The man poured out a stiff nip and took a
mouthful; then he spat it out.
“What manner of ‘rom’ (grog) is this?
It is bitter to the tongue. It is bad ‘rom.’ ”
“Let me taste,” said Watson, who now
remembered that the Hollands had struck
him as having an unusual taste. Tarria
passed him the cocoanut shell; he sipped a
little. It certainly was slightly bitter, and
a quick suspicion entered his mind.
“Pour it back into the bottle, and press the
cork in tightly. As thou sayest, it hath a
strange taste.”
Then Tarria took the two hafts of the
canoe paddles, laid them athwartships over
Watson’s head, and spread his girdle over
them to protect the white man from the sun.
Then he pressed Watson’s hand.
“Be of good heart, friend. I shall return
soon. Art sleepy?”
“Aye, I am drowsy.”
“That is well. Tiakapo.” (Good-bye.)
And, slipping over the side, he struck out
swiftly for the shore.
At noon Watson was aroused by the sound
of voices, and two canoes came alongside.
He was lifted out, placed aimidships in the
largest canoe, and given a young cocoanut to
drink.
“Where is the man from Onotoa?” he
asked.
“In my house,” replied Akapu, the chief of
die island.
“Is he well?”
“It is well with him.”
“And thou, and thy people? Are there
many sick?”
“Very many.”
Too weak to ask any more questions, Wat-
son closed his eyes. An hour later he was
in his own house. Akapu brought him
nearly half a tumblerful of brandy. He
drank it eagerly, and in a few minutes was
able to sit up.
“Where is the man from Onotoa?” he again
asked.
Akapu placed one hand on Watson’s knee,
and then spoke slowly.
“He is dead.”
“Dead!”
“Aye, he is dead. When he left thee to
swim to the shore no one saw him till he was
close to the reef. A little girl who was fish-
ing was the first to see him. And, as he
placed his hand on a knob of coral to draw
himself out of the water, a shark shot up
from beneath and bit a great piece out of
his side —so great that the bowels came out.
But yet so strong was he that he dragged
himself on to the reef and said to the child,
‘Hasten, little one, to the shore and tell thy
people that their white man is adrift in a
canoe a league and a-half away over there
to the west. Bid them hurry, for he is
sick and helpless.’ And then he asked the
child tQ bring him water and a pipe and to-
bacco. We came to him and he drank the
water, but, as we put a pipe to his mouth, he
lifted his hand and pointed seaward. Then
he died there on the reef.”
* * # *
Three and a-half years had passed, and
Watson found himself in San Francisco.
Standing at the corner of Sansome and Cali-
fornia streets, he gave a sudden start as a
big, burly man passed them. It was Winch-
combly. Watson followed his man, who en-
tered a low drinking saloon and then went
upstairs. Watson ordered a drink, and soon
found out that Winchcombly was boarding
at the place, and was “having a good time,”
also, that he was “a bad man,” and worth
leaving alone. Returning to his lodgings,
he opened his trunk and took out a square
bottle wrapped in brown paper. Half an
hour later he was back in the saloon, which
was crowded with “toughs” of the usual
’Frisco-wharves type. He scanned them
closely, but the man he sought was not
amongst them. At last he heard his voice,
and discovered him in a corner, seated with
two other men at a small round table, drink-
ing.
He went outside, and then re-entered by
another door. Approaching Winchcombly
from behind, he gave him a heavy slap on
his broad back.
“How are you, Mister Winchcombly?” he
said quietly. “I’m glad to see you again.”
Then, ere the man could utter a word,
he slipped round to the other side, took a
chair directly opposite him, and, quickly un-
covering the bottle, placed it upon the table.
Winchcombly half rose from his seat, then
sat down again. The two toughs stared at
Watson, then at the bottle, but said no-
thing.
Watson addressed himself to them. “Gen-
tlemen, glad to meet you. Don’t know your
names, but that doesn’t matter. Let us
have some drinks.” He called a bar at-
tendant, and the drinks were brought.
“What are you having, Mr. Winchcombly ?”
he said with studied politeness.
“Carn’t yer see it’s whisky ?”-was the
surly answer. “Anyway, what does it mat-
ter to you?”
Watson stretched out his arm and quietly
drew Winchcombly’s glass away, and placed
it beside his own.
“It matters a good deal, Mr. Winch-
combly. I don’t want you to drink bad
whisky when I can give you some of the
excellent Hollands gin which you sold me
on Nanomea, three and a-half years ago.
You remember, eh? I only had two drinks
out of the bottle —the rest I have kept for
you.” He threw out the whisky in Winch-
combly’s glass and then half filled it with
liquor from the square bottle, just as Winch-
combly’s right hand was sliding slowly down
to his hip pocket.
Watson was too quick for him. “None
of that. Put your hands on the table,
sharp.”
And Wincheombly promptly obeyed, for
the muzzle of Watson’s pistol was within a
foot of his bloodshot eyes.
“Drink,” said Watson.
“What for? I never did like square-
face.”
“Drink,” reiterated Watson grimly.
Winchcombly looked at the two toughs, but
found no sympathy in their callous faces.
Slowly he stretched out his hand to take
the glass, and then, with a sudden upward
jerk of his right knee, upset the table and
drew his revolver —a second too late, for
Watson’s bullet took him in the forehead.
He dropped on the saw-dusted floor.
Watson looked at him for a moment,
then turned to the crowd that now sur-
rounded him.
“Try that Hollands, you fellows,” he
said, as he turned to go away, “and see
how it agrees with you.”
LOUIS BECKE.
“A Mickle Blow.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HARSH winches clattered in the
night; dark phantoms came and
went—
Their shadows, doubled and grotesque, ’neath
shadow-burdens bent.
Foul flare-lamps flickered o’er the tide; like
lost, complaining souls,
Aloft the winds groaned through the gear
that swayed from bare, black poles.
Grey sunset with a falling glass a coming
change foretold ;
But still the baskets swung inboard, and, in
her hungry hold,
Up-tilted, threw their heavy weight, that
gives the engine soul
And buys the stoker bread and beer —the
world’s black servant, coal.
Night long the hymn of industry uprose, in
sweat and grime
These blackened cornermen of Toil earned
joyous overtime.
They trooped ashore with morning light;
then, wistful to the town,
We turned our dull, repentant eyes, and
laid the hatches down.
Our bridge deck clanged its loud command
unto the wardens who,
By virtue of certificates, in turn command
the screw;
Then slowly swung her bulk around, and
low her plebeian nose
Snuffed seaward like a dog unleashed, that
takes the trail it knows.
The rivets in her ancient plates were bright
—in ’sixty-nine ;
But in her frame she kept alive traditions
of the Tyne;
Infrequent paint her sides had known, and
yet her engineers
Had shipped with curses, and, betimes, had
left with oily tears.
All things about her spake of Use; the marks
of wear and tear
From truck to kelson on her lay, the grit
was everywhere.
She bore the stamp of Common Things;
’twas plain her homely bulk
Familiar lived with tip and crane, the
lighter and the hulk.
No subject for the cultured bard or critic
debonair,
Who “high ideals” cultivate —in regions of
thin air;
For in the social world of ships, where
many grades there be,
She filled the humble functions of a Scul-
lion of the Sea.
So with no waving cambrics out, no music
or display,
We slipped her shore-lines at the dawn
and went our vulgar way ;
And as she swung to face the roll from
shelt’ring heads between,
She laid her scuppers in the trough and
meekly took it —green.
Macßraid upon the bridge remarked to
dour Mac Oil below —
“Ye’ll need full head o’ steam the noo; we’ll
hae a mickle blow!”
The nether Mac with canty eye surveyed
his shafts of steel,
And to the tube laconic growled: “She’s
doin’ vera weel.”
We left the land in mist and haze to make
our offing wide,
From traps of Doom that starboard lay,
where bones of ships abide;
For, gentles in your easy chairs, and clerks
upon the stools,
The lessons of the Seven Seas were never
taught in schools!
And as a fighter treads the ring, to take
and make the play,
With human will and human skill, we faced,
alert, that day
The lean-flanked fighting seas tnat ducked,
and, gathering strength, uprose
And planted on her trembling hull their
dull, repeated blows.
Aloft, in dripping oilskin, swayed the steers-
man at his wheel;
Below they fed their furnace fires and oiled
the joints of steel,
And thus our day to darkness fell, and
groaning through the night
She pounded on, a risen gale and roaring
seas despite.
With ramp and race and leap and dive, with
thud and creak and groan,
She slaved, a Scullion at her task, on God’s
wild sea, alone ;
Her iron decks unwonted clean, fast hosed
by briny streams,
Loud anguish in her ag&d heart of moaning
ties and beams.
And when, long last, the morning brought
Macßraid’s returning watch,
A hoarse voice down the speaking tube in-
quired, in anxious Scotch:
“How fares it wi’ the engine-room? We’ve
had a fearsome nicht?”....
“It’s nae sae bad,” the Depths replied;
“she’s puttin’ through aw-richt!”
“Aw-richt” they trailed her in at length:
and now the Yarra tide
Goes crawling like a yellow snake along her
drab old side.
To-night the wharves are very still; the
watchman goes his round,
And from the streets of Melbourne town glad
• calls of Life resound.
The mate’s gone home to Clifton Hill; the
Old Man’s in his bunk;
A feckless gang of stoker men ashore are
getting drunk.
They’ll drink the Scullion’s health in beer,
for well these godless know
Her worn old plates, ’twixt Death and
them, stood staunch ten hours ago,
When, prisoned in the depths aglare, they
fought that “mickle blow.”
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


Tk
me
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
uhjiuojoj
No
Ignition
ara
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism. -
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct. ■
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Through
Latest Standard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Rot Iron and
Ceol Handle.
Made in 31b. and 61b. weights ; in sizes 2f" x s}/', and 4" xH* ;
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively’
It lias a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move— a glittering mirror finish —and, over all, our guarantee.
Thoroughly efficient for both light and heavy work ; simple, yet
•fcrong: clean, handy and inexpensive.. Can alo be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up'to 301 b.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
W. G. WATSON & CO.,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manti.factu.rers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
dinnefqrds]
Magnesia
DINNEFORD'S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
———————
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and labei.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious A
FARMER’S FRIEND” QIL
uhjiuojoj
2 horsepower
** Farmer’s Friend **
Portable.
ENGINES”WORK
ON OIL OR GAS.
Guaranteed
2 Years.
Also Wood-
Sawing, Chaffcutting
and Pumping Outfits,
4,8, or 12-h.p. complete,
Portable or Stationary.
2-h.p. Stationary, £25. —Terms: £lO deposit, and £1 month.'
ON TERMS
All complete, with Tanks and
Pipes, f.o.b. Sydney. You have
no fittings to buy— everything
is supplied by us.
Larger Engines at proper*
tionate Prices and Terms.
Write for Catalogue.
PARTRIDGE S HODGSON,
49 York Street, SYBNIY
539 Collins St., MELBOUC
EAT WHAT YOU FANCY
,> v
ft"
it.
65?
I v V,
NO FEAR OF INDIGESTION
IF YOU TAKE
BeechamS Pills.
CAMT
B
BEAT
RIAR
CBB
ALL SHAPES
, 1/each post free \fz
J Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
.VUCK SIMMONS
_ SYDMEY.
i roßfr/t£EP£/ts * roßACcomsns
SHOULD SOW 808 OUR TRADE LIST
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
r Asafe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Feeer
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations ot ALL. mucous membranes
or linings of the noso, throat,
stomach or urinary organs,
AT CHEMISTS
JVhy not cure yourself
, Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
k Hie Enas Chemical Co.
Ciarianeti, Ohs,
U.S.A.
uhjiuojoj
W 44
Dt,
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
[COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
m
uhjiuojoj
ASTHMA CURE
SRIMAUITS DBMETIB
uhjiuojoj
THE BEST STORIES wmten is Aub if alia
appear is Tmk Loam Mams «wk M*nib.
jPrioa sixpanee.
„ “ LINSEED COMPOUND ”-Tb« “Sioekpart
Bttsedy ”for Ooiifrbs A Colds. Of 40y«urs’proven efficacy.
uhjiuuhjiuojojojoj
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Bhe'Standard Remedy which has oufciired the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use sines 1506.
jUr
CURBS'
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask; pour chemist for its history—the book is free— or write
!• ©BEEN, 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
THREE WITCHE
:V
MORRIS'S I
iree Witches
CIjtARETTIS
•wad,V(
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 10®, Post Free.
HICK SIMMONS, *»*<*■
Storekeepers and Tohacconisls shotfld
send lor our Trade Irtsts.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL,.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
maciT ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
Combined Electricity and
Destructor Undertaking's
are becoming general. The ** HEENAN ” Patent is the last thing in
Refuse Destruction—
PAYS FOR ITSELF IN A FEW YEARS.
Full particulars on application to
AUSTRALASIAN
AGENCY:
STEANES, 39 Pitt Str<
DICK'S PATENT
belting.
THE ORIGINAL AND
CEUUINE BALATA.
TRADfc.
OR IQ
Ol
TA
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a award against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
TANGYE Oil Engines
Copy of Testimonial received from Mr. P. Squire,
Cowra, N.S. W. :
“ With the ‘Tangye’ Oil Engine and Wolseley
Sheep Shearing Machines, erected for me this
year, I have gone through the shearing without
a hitch.
“lam more than pleased with the Engine and
Machines and the erection of same.”
For Shearing: Sheds.
uhjiuojoj
T HE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
IS THE- WORLD’S BEST.
Competition has only tended to emphasise this well-known fact, as
improvements which have recently been added to the machine have
established beyond any doubt the right to claim for the “ Wolseley ”
the title-
THE PREMIER SHEARING MACHINE.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND CATALOGUES.
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine
is a particularly well-built and Substantial
Engine, and SPECIALLY SUITED TO
AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS. Numbers in
use in N.S.W. driving Pumps, Circular
Saws, Chaffcutters, etc.
For Shearing: Sheds.
uhjiuojoj
y .
K
' .
Sole
Agents,
r’s
1
IN
%-Wm
uhjiuojoj
loathes, Shapers, Milling
Machines, Radial, Up-
right and Sensitive
Drills, Punching and
.Shearing Machines,
Power Hammers.
Fay and Egan Planers, Molders, Matchers, Saw Benches;
Simonds’ Planer Knives; Circular and Band Saws;
Supplies: Engineer’s, WoodworKer’s and Sawmiller’s.
H. P. GREGORY ® CO.,
74 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
WE STOCK
Radi a 1 Ar m
Benches,
Continuous Roller
Feed,
Rising and Falling.
Three and Four
Cutter Moulding
Machines.
'V
AGENCIES:
Lodge and Shipley
Lathes,
Seneca Falls “Star”
Lathes,
John Stirk’s High
Speed Lathes,
Mark Flather’s
Shapers,
Crescent Wood=
working Machines,
National Screwing
Machines,
Jessop’s Drills and
Steel.
Bevan & Edwards
-' -.r': • i ■'■...•<
K, »G STREET, MELB
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd .
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St, George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
-
kS
-
.
wm j
uhjiuojoj
Acknowledged by all Leading Architects to be the most successful material for Roofs, Floors,
Walls and Ceilings, Ships’ Decks, Baths, Tramcar Floors, Freezing Chambers, Hospital and
Asylum Floors, Fire«proof Stairs, Pavements, Roadways, Leaking Tanks* Mantelpieces,
Overmantels, Skating Rink Floors and thousands of other purposes.
Sole Manufacturers and Patentees— PETRITE LIMITED, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
RICNARPS’ PULSATOR JKUS
IFIERS
Made in Four Sizes.
From 25 to 175 Tons Capacity per Day.
TABLE OF COMPARISON FOR RICHARDS’ AND HARZ JIGS, EACH HAVING CAPACITY
OF 90 TONS PER DAY.
uhjiuojoj
m
263 George Street, Sydney;
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SIX-COMPARTMENT JIG.
