

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R. G-. WATKINS «§fc CO.,
107 Kent Street;, Sydney,
mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
aWtXfli ir
McLaren
Traction Engines.
The Finest Hauling Locos.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
•A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaida.
BIOBA.RT.
Ufa
fiadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
"Take it back.
I must have
MUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the digea*
fcive organs.
HANSENS
J
L
U
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
alls. tfraltfmy
tUfis GLcUXs JCUOufusvi/ij 'G/jta .
tills 'feotr.
■A*
V /.v
<0
f>
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWOASTLE.
v>-
w
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send fob Catalogues,
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 CIafCIICC Street, Sydney.
im
>• ■
rr-fiW f -
tm
■ [
WiV*W
rrrr." ■
*
*
in
* ♦ .VaV ■* *1
This Residence (at Ballarat) is roofed with
PABCO ROOFING
(WHITE MALTHOID).
For comfort and security PABCO is ah ideal roofing. It lowers the
temperature in Summer, has a most artistic effect, and defies all
sorts and conditions of weather.
GET PABCO.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, OH ALLIS, HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
hopper waggons.
road-making plants
A SPECIALTY.
THE' CLYDE
ENGINEERING
.COMPANY L T -
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY LI?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
I SUCTION GAS ENGINES
I * AND
GAS GENERATING PLANTS
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 1906,
against all makers.
C. A. MacDONALD, LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELICON SPA WATER
HELICON SPA perforins a primary function. )
It dissolves and carries away effete matter. [
DEWHUR'jT S HALLORAN, Ltd..
iiuli
The Bulletin
V01.32.—N0. 1620.1
[Thursday, March 2, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


50,000 SIXPENNY CHEAPS,
Including’ R.P.A. Reprints,
Always in Stock.
McGrath’s Arms and the Woman. Lincoln’s Oap’n Eric. R. W. Chambers’ Maids o! Paradise, The Fighting- Chance.
Sinclair • The Jungle The Money-Changers. Lillibridge : Ben Blair. G. B. McCutcheon’s Graustark, Beverley of
Graustark Major :’When Knighthood Was in Flower. Wright’s Shepherd of the Hills. S. E. White: The
Westerners SR. Crockett: Men of the Mountain, The Lilac Sunbonnet. Anstey : The Brass Bottle. D. Lyall :
The Bells of Portk’nockie. J. Hocking: The Chariots of the Lord. C. Doyle: The Doings of Raffles Haw. Pem-
berton • Sir Richard Escombe. Marchmont: A Millionaire Girl. A. E. W. Mason : The Broken Road. Haggard's
Fair Margaret G. Meredith : The Ordeal of Richard Feverel. E. F. Benson : Scarlet and Hyssop. W. B. Maxwell:
Hill Rise* Hewlett: The Spanish Jade. Haeckel’s Evolution of Man (2 vols.), 6d. each, Riddle of the Universe,
Wonders'of Life Last Words on Evolution. Spencer’s Education, The Man versus the State. Hudson’s Philosophy
of Herbert Spencer. Emerson’s Addresses and Essays. McCabe’s Martyrdom of Ferrer, Religion of Woman, Woman
in Political Evolution. Paine’s Age of Reason, Rights of Man, Life of Thomas Paine. Huxley’s Lectures and Essays,
Man’s Place in Nature. Grant Allen’s Evolution of the Idea of God. Hird’s Easy Outline of Evolution. Ingersoll’s
Lectures and Essays (3 vols.), 6d. each. Laing : Problems of the Future.
We will Select 33 Popular Titles for 205., or 16 for 10s., and send Post Free to any Address.
George Robertson & Co. Prep. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Metrical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to L e c t u r e r 8,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
SSsffi
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I 9 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
The New Machiavelli
Probably very few people outside of Japan
read The Prince nowadays. The name of
Niccolo Machiavelli, who wrote it, is, how-
ever, preserved in English speech—the sur-
name being used as a synonym for craft,
treachery, dissimulation, and similar ugly
things, while part of the front name stands
for the Devil. As pointed out in one of the
first of those Essays with which young
Macaulay made his reputation, Machiavelli
did not deserve such posthumous abuse.
From that brilliant piece of whitewashing,
down to a recent essay by the elderly John
Morley and Manning’s Scenes and Portraits,
much has been written which makes amends,
and it is now generally recognised that old
Machiavelli was a far-sighted patriot, who
taught the best statecraft of his times.
H- G. Wells has taken him as a symbol
for his latest novel— The New Machiavelli
(Lane), which purports to be the autobio-
graphy of a British statesman, written, as
was The Prince, after his country had driven
the author into retirement. The occasion
for the expulsion of Wells’ hero was the
same as that which brought about the down-
fall of Parnell, and for that reason old
Machiavelli is a suitable analogue :
He is dead and gone, all his immediate correla-
tions to party and faction have faded to insignifi-
cance, leaving only on the one hand his broad
method and conceptions, and upon the other his
intimate living personality, exposed down to its
salacious corners as the soul of no contemporary
can ever be exposed. ... I picture him at San
Casciano as he lived in retirement upon his pro-
perty after the fall of the Republic, perhaps with
a twinge of the torture that punished his con-
spiracy still lurking in his limbs. Then it was
The Prince was written. ... So writing he be-
comes a symbol tome, and none thejess because of
his animal humor, his queer, indecent side, and
because of such lapses into utter meanness as that
which made him sound the note of the begging
letter writer even in his Dedication. . . . These
flaws complete him.
After stating the main differences between
this age and that of the Florentine due to
the diffusion of power and the discovery of
women as a political factor, Wells traces the
career of his statesman from the knicker-
bocker stage.
“Justice has not been done,” he says, “ to
bricks and soldiers by those who write about
toys.” In Richard Remington’s education
these toys played a big part. His father, a
science teacher under the old Science and
Art Department, “ carried a natural incom-
petence in practical affairs to an exception-
ally high level.” He became enamored of
intensive culture, and practised it in his
little garden until his patience was ex-
hausted :
With the failure of the lettuces came the break-
ing point. I can see him still; his peculiar tenor
voice still echoes in my brain, shouting his opinion
of intensive culture for the startled angels and all
the world to hear, and slashing away at that
abominable mockery of a crop with a hoe. . . He
had a hoe in both hands and slogged. Great
wipes he made, and at each stroke he said,
“ Take that!”
The air was thick with flying fragments of
abortive salad. It was a fantastic massacre. It
was the French Revolution of that cold tyranny,
the vindictive overthrow of the pampered vege-
table aristocrats. After he had assuaged his passion
upon them, he turned for other prey ; he kicked
holes in two of our noblest marrows, flicked off
the heads of half a row of artichokes, and shied
the hoe with a splendid smash into the cucumber
frame. .. “ Well, my boy,” he said, approaching
with an expression of beneficent happiness, “ I’ve
done with gardening. Let’s go for a walk like
reasonable beings. I’ve had enough of this —
pandering to cabbages.”
The father spluttered out a lot of advice to
Dick—principally to beware of Things. ‘ ‘ Be-
fore you know where you are you are wait-
ing on them and minding them. They’ll eat
your life up. . . Property’s the curse of life.
.. . There’s no property worth having but
money. That’s only good to spend. All
these things. Human souls buried under
a cartload of blithering rubbish.”
With such a father and a narrow-minded
religious mother, Dick developed curiously
until he came to adolescence and Cambridge.
Then he faced the mystery of sex, and some
of the talks about it are the natural confi-
dences of young men emboldened by ale.
“ Idon’t mind a certain refinement and dignity,”
Hatherleigh admitted generously. “ What I
object to is this spreading out of decency until it
darkens the whole sky, until it makes a man’s
father afraid to speak of the most important
things, until it makes a man afraid to look a frank
book in the face, or think—even think ; until it
leads to our coming to —to the business at last
with nothing but a few prohibitions, a few hints,
a lot of dirty jokes and, and he waved a hand
and seemed to seek and catch his image in the air
“oh, a confounded buttered slide of sentiment
to guide us.”
Dick was at the University during the era
of the S. African War and Kiplingism. The
influence of the latter upon him was upset by
Meredith’s One of Our Conquerors. . Then
came a conception of the world of men and
its ceaseless change, with thoughts of
constructive work in Socialistic directions
mingling with thoughts of the other sex—
“the white life and the red life . . . like the
antagonistic colors of a shot silk.” Then the
concrete fact of a Woman. His friend, who
discovered his lapse from virtue, warned him :
There are some things that a man who means to
work —to do great public services— must turn his
back upon. ... If you want to experiment in
that way, if you want even to discuss it—out you go
from political life. .. . You’re a strange man,
Remington, with a kind of kink in you. You’re
a sort of force. You might happen to do immense
things ... only .
“ I mean to take myself as I am, I said. ‘1 m
going to get experience for humanity out of all my
talents—and bury nothing.”
The rest of the story, and the rest is two-
thirds, is the development of that passage.
Dick’s evolution through advanced Liberalism
to Conservatism, from the advocacy of “love
and fine thinking” to “hate and coarse
thinking ” is elaborately told “ from within.”
His first plank had been the “culture of fine
creative minds” :
“ Build your ship of State as you will; get your
men as you will; I concentrate on what is clearly
my affair—l want to ensure the quality of the
quarter deck.”
Later he advocated the Endowment of
Motherhood, and on that plank rose to an
influential position in Parliament,
A host of characters come on to the stage
—people like Codger, the don, who is likened
to an animal born in the menagerie ; the
Baileys, who may have been suggested by
Sidney and Beatrice Webb (though “ her
soul was bony ” doesn’t fit) and Evesham,
who resembles Balfour—“ One might think
at times that there was no more of him than
a clever man happily circumstanced and find-
ing an interest and occupation in politics.
And then came a glimpse of thought, of im-
agination, like the sight of a soaring eagle
through a staircase skylight.” Particularly
well drawn are Margaret, with whom he
drifted into marriage, and Isabel—-the frank
girl who brought about the revelation of a
passion which shattered all obstacles.
The New Machiavelli is something new in
fiction. The autobiographic form is, of
course, old ; but here is a story which takes
in its broad sweep the frankest revelation
possible in English of a man’s mental and
spiritual development, the play of current
political and economic forces and the mas-
tery of primal instincts. It is something
like Tom Jones in its fulness of life, for
Wells has poured himself into it lavishly.
If Fielding had written it, however, he
would have stuck to his muttons and,given
less argument. The novelty of Wells’ book
is that the analysis proceeds with the story ;
the hero’s self-dissection reveals him as a
man of power with flaws, like Machiavelli ;
his adultery is not condoned, but shown to
have been inevitable. Of such are the big
men of the political world whose lives are
known ; in literature we only get such men
in books like Cellini’s Memoirs , Boswell’s
Dr. Johnson, or Pepys’ Diary. The New
Machiavelli is greater than anything Wells
has yet done, though it is not a great
work of art. Life appears to Wells as
a mass of problems, and he looks at
them with an intellect hard and restless.
“Beauty is the salt of life,” he makes
Remington say, “ but I take my beauty as a
wild beast gets its salt, as a constituent of
the meal.” Wells brings some salt to the
feast, for he is an artist; but he is greater as
an extensive force—tremendously stimulat-
ing in his own time.
Light Verse
Call a woman “light” and you damn her
in the eyes of respectability. You may,
however, say that respectable verse is
“light” and thereby commend it. The
adjective is not necessarily a promise of
amusement; but it is an inducement to read
that which is generally left alone if sus-
picioned as heavy. Verse which is really
light does not conceal any social problem ;
it has no moral uplift before it nor stealthy
sermon behind it. The great poets in their
starriest flights often pass through pon-
derous subjects and illuminate them ;
but not all great- poetry is light. Dante
and Milton never trifled, seldom smiled.
Much of Shakespeare, however, is light verse,
and there is as good brain stuff in Falstaff as
there is in Hamlet. Most of Herrick, Suck-
ling, Carew and Campion is airy and spark-
ling ; Prior, Praed and Calverley seldom did
mo’-e than flirt with serious subjects. All
forms, all metres, all devices, whatever goes
to the making of heavy verse, and some
licenses and eccentricities not permitted else-
where, are open to the light-verse writer.
A collection of good light verse should,
therefore, be an entertaining volume. One of
the kind, Locker-Lampson’s Dj/ra Eleganti-
arum, has had much success. It was pub-
lished a good while ago, and omitted the
work of then living writers. R. M. Leonard
has compiled a new and larger anthology of
a similar kind— A Book of Light V erse
(Oxford Press, 2s.) —which follows Locker
Lampson’s definition, and profits by Swin-
burne’s article on “ Social Verse.”
Leonard includes A. C. Hilton’s clever
parody of “The Heathen Chinee,” though
it would have been jjetter to let parodies
alone, as they are in a large class apart.
Accepting a hint from Arthur Symons, he
prints one of the best macaronics, J.
O’Keefe’s “Amo, Auras ” :
Amo, A mas,
I love a lass
As a cedar tall and slender.
Sweet cowslip’s grace
Is her Nominative Case,
And she’s of the Feminine Lender,
Rorum corum, sunt Dirorum
Harum, scarum, divo!
Tag rag, merry dert-y, periwig and hatband !
Hie hoc horum yenitivo 1
There are two more stanzas of that effer-
vescent mixture. . . . This is all there is of
Bickerstaff’s pathetic expostulation :
When late I attempted your pity to move,
What made you so deaf to my prayers?
Perhaps it was right to dissemble your love,
But—why did you kick me downstairs?
The best of the drinking songs is the famous
one attributed to Bishop Still of the six-
teenth century :
I cannot eat but little meat,
My stomach is not good ;
But sure, I think that I can drink
With him that wears a hood.
Though I go bare take ye no care,
I nothing am a-cold.
I stuff my skin so full within
Of jolly good ale and old.
Back and side go bare, go bare,
Both foot and hand go cold';
But, belly, God send thee good ale enough.
Whether it be new or old.
The well-known “ Needy Knife Grinder,"
from The Anti-Jacobin, is the finest prosodi-
cal performance in the book, and the coarse
humor of Swift makes much of the later
stuff look pale. A neat little trifle from the
late Richard Garnett may close the notice of
an interesting anthology :
Our master Meleager, he who framed
The first Anthology and daintiest,
Mated each minstrel with a flower, and named
For each the blossom that beseemed him best.
’Twas then as now; garlands were somewhat
rare,
Candidates many. One in doleful strain
Lamented thus : “This is a sad affair;
How shall I face iny publisher again ?
Lacking some emblem suitable for me,
My book’s undone ; I shall not sell a copy.”
“ Take courage, son,” quoth Phoebus, “there
must be
Somewhere or other certainly a poppy.”
Belloc's Verse
Hilaire Belloc is ■ known as a writer of
prose satires, skits, biographies, and essays
on Something, Anything, Nothing, etc. In
some of these books there appeared ballads
and scraps of verse of noticeable quality.
He now tests the market with a volume of
Verses only (Sydney Book Club).
The opening address “To Dives” is in
lightest vein, and the author’s account of
himself is characteristic :
Dives, when you and I go down to Hell,
Where scribblers end and millionaires as well,
We shall be carrying on our separate backs
Two very large but very different packs.
Dives is told that Charon will order him to
leave his weighty things behind, together
-with “ the guarantee from Lambeth that the
rich can never burn ” :
Sweet Dives, you will leave them all behind,
And enter Hell as tattered and as bare
As was your father when he took the air
Behind a barrow-load in Leicester Square.
Then turned to me and noting one that brings,
With careless step, a mist of shadowy things :
Laughter and memories, and a few regrets,
Some honor, and a quantity of debts,
A doubt or two of sorts, a trust in God,
And (what will seem to you extremely odd)
His father’s granfer’s father’s father’s name,
Unspoilt, untitled, even spelt the same ;
Charon, who, twenty thousand times before,
Has ferried poets to the ulterior shore.
Will estimate the weight I bear, and cry :
“ Comrade! ” (He has himself been known to try
His hand at Latin and Italian verse
Much in the style of Virgil—only worse.)
“ We let such vain imaginaries pass ! ”
Then tell me, Dives, which will look the ass—
You or myself ? Or Charon ? Who can tell ?
They order things so damnably in Hell.
In the same spirit are most of the other
verses. Belloc has a fine ironical wit,
satirises Newdigate prize poems admirably,
and occasionally breaks into a rollicking
song, such as this :
WEST SUSSEX DRINKING SONG.
They sell good Beer at Haslemere
And under Guilford Hill.
At little Cowfold, as I’ve been told,
A beggar may drink his fill;
There is a good brew in Amberley too,
And by the bridge also ;
But the swipes they take in the Washington Inn
Is the very best Beer, I know.
With my here it goes, there it goes,
All the fun’s before us :
The Tipple’s aboard and the night is young,
The door’s ajar and the Barrel is sprung.
I am singing the best song ever was sung,
And it has a rousing chorus.
If I were what I never can be,
The master or the squire :
If you gave me the hundred from here to the sea,
Which is more than I desire:
Then all my crops would be barley and hops,
And did my harvest fail
I’d sell every rood of mine acres I would
For a belly-full of good Ale.
Chorus.
The best of this collection is “ Heretics
All,” probably suggested by New bolt’s “Ad-
mirals All.” Its genesis is related in an
early prose Belloc— The Path to Rome:
Heretics all, whoever you be,
In Tarbes, or Nirne,-. or over the sea,
You never shall have good words from me.
Caritas non conturbat me.
But Catholic men that live upon wine
Are deep in the water, and frank, and fine;
Wherever I travel I find it so,
Benedicamus Domino.
On childing women that are forlorn
And men that sweat in nothing but scorn ;
That is on all that ever were born,
Miserere Domine.
To my poor self on my death bed,
And all my dear companions dead.
Because of the love that I bore them,
Dona Bis Requiem.
- ♦
A man may write satisfactorily on certain
subjects and badly on others. A writer may
be able to explain clearly and calmly some
sport that he knows, and yet be capable of
a badly-written and intemperate criticism of
a whole people whom he does not know
well. These truisms by way of introduction
to the fact that early last year P. A. Yaile
published a book called Y — America's Peril,
which was referred to here, in an article on
the United States (10/3/T0), as the work of
“an intemperate and incompetent writer.”
The passages quoted from the book and the
whole context of the sentence showed that
the adjectives mentioned were used with
reference only to the criticism of Americans
by P. A. Yaile in Y — America’s Peril, and
not to the rest of his literary work.
* * * *
Albert Dorrington’s Children of the Cloven
Hoof (Geo. Robertson and Co.) turns out to
be a better story than was expected when
the first chapters were read in serial form.
With a vivid recollection of the fine work in
Castro’s La,st Sacrament and other Stories,
one was not prepared for the shapeless
crudity of And the Day Came. For how
much of Lady Calphurnia, Royal Dorrington
was responsible it is impossible to say ; but
that melodramatic creation missed the step
and fell heavily. Children of the Cloven
Hoof is a more natural, coherent story than
either of those. It is placed in the Queens-
land bush, which he knew fairly well. Some
of the characters, especially Eustace Fifcz-
allan, are not filled out consistently, and the
best of them, like David Bellinger and his
son Martin, take minor parts. There is a
murder, a false accusation, and a trial which
are worked up sensationally ; and the junior
leads are married off to close a good average
bush yarn in the, manner approved in Britain.
•» * * *
The “advanced” legislation of Maoriland
has produced a large crop of essays and
books of explanation or criticism in various
languages. A new volume to be added to
the list is State Socialism in New Zealand,
by Prof. J. E. Le Rossignol, of Denver,
U.S.A., and W. D. Stewart, of Dunedin,
published by Crowell, New York.
The operation of the laws relating to land
tenure, State insurance, arbitration, etc.,
are set forth with a few cautious comments.
A slight anti-socialistic bias is visible; yet the
statement of the position in each case is im-
partial, and ample references are given to
sources of original information. The book
should be useful to students of economics in
Australasia as well as those in America.
The authors close on the yellow note :
What the British colonies need most is not
more socialistic legislation, but an alliance with
the United States, and who shall say that the
United States does not need an alliance with the
British Empire ; if not for the.open door in China
and the mastery of the Pacific, at least for the
preservation of Anglo-Saxon civilisation ?
* * * *
An interesting event is expected any week in
the literary circles of Melbourne. It is the arrival
of a Quarterly Review which will contain the em-
balmed Words of the Illuminati and the chilled
Thunderbolts of Jove’s local understudies. A
name is waiting for it— The Australian Onlooker ;
and its price is fixed—2s. 6d. per annum. The
price is little enough for something which may
help us all heavenwards.


A
u
ALL ROUND AUSTRALIA
... ON ...
Anthony Horderns’ UNIVERSAL Bicycle.
Built of B.S.A. Parts and Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
Francis Birtles, the intrepid long-distance cyclist, selected the
UNIVERSAL BICYCLE for his great ride all-round Australia.
The machine carried a total weight of nearly 2>£cwt., and was
ridden over 16,000 miles of rough country and unmade roads. The
Universal Bicycle achieved a triumphant success as a reliable roadster.
We are Family Drapers, Manufacturing Jewellers, Complete House Furnishers and
Universal Providers, and our Immense Store, with its Magnificent Stock of the
World's Choicest Commodities, offers attractions that cannot be obtained elsewhere .
Write for Illustrated Price Lists of anything you want, posted free on application,
and reap the full benefit of ANTHONY HORDERNS' FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
The Universal
Bicycle,
built of B. S. A. parts
at our own factory, as
ridden by Birtles, with
Eadie Two-Speed
Coaster Hub, free
wheel on both gears,
Back-pedalling Brake
and Front Brake.
Fitted with Dunlop
Tyres.
Pfi “ £l2/10J-
Write for Bicycle and
Sports List —Posted
Free on Application.
FRANCIS BIRTLES on the UNIVERSAL Bicycle.
Built at ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FACTORY.
The Universal
Bicycle,
built at our own fac-
tory of genuine B. S. A.
parts to order, or
stock models.
With Oceanic Tyres,
£lO.
With Dunlop Tyres,
£ll.
With Eadie Coaster
Hub and Dunlop
Tyres, £H IQs.
Ladies’ Models,
20/- extra.
For All Smokers’ Requisites
put Perfect Trust in
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAfIOUS LOW PRICES.
Mjß*
£ SUPERB *
V-XIXTUREv
OEM
&
l
SUPERB COARSE-CUT, IN
AIRTIGHT TINS.
Superb Coarse=Cut Mixture.
This SUPERB COARSE-CUT MIXTURE is a BLEND
of SPECIALLY-SELECTED tobacco, and PREPARED for
US to MEET the requirements of AUSTRALIAN PIPE
SMOKERS. There is NOT a FLAW in the QUALITY, and
the PHENOMENAL SUCCESS that has ATTENDED the
introduction of this MODERATELY-PRICED COARSE-
CUT SMOKING MIXTURE is an indication that it
SATISFIES the KEENEST SMOKERS.
Tins of loz. 2oz. 4oz. per lb.’
Price 9d. 1/3 2/6 9/-
Postage—loz., 2d.; 20z., 3d. ; 40z., 4d.; per lb., 9d. extra.
Postage, other States, per lb., 1/2 extra.
Carreras’ Special Double Broad=Cut Tobacco.
CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD-CUT TOBACCO is specially manufac-
tured by CARRERAS, LTD., for ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, and all DIS-
CRIMINATING smokers are RECOMMENDED to give it a trial. The new METHOD of
cutting and mixing adopted for the CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD-CUT
ensures the EXACT BLEND intended by the manufacturer.
With CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD-CUT
the NATURAL TOBACCO is in LARGE PIECES, ab-
solutely FREE from STALK, and CUT in such a way that
the WEIGHT of the DIFFERENT PARTICLES is
PRACTICALLY the same.
When the pipe is lighted it will be found that CARRERAS’
SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD CUT allows the AIR to PASS
through the TOBACCO as EASILY as through a DRY
SPONGE, and the SMOKE REACHES THE MOUTH
FILTERED OF ALL ITS HEAT.
The pipe always DRAWS FREELY and with a
DELICIOUS COOLNESS, because the tobacco CANNOT
form into LUMPS, such as most smokers have experienced
with FINE-CUT MIXTURES.
CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD-CUT
TOBACCO smokes PURE and SWEET to the BOTTOM of
the PIPE, leaving a MINIMUM of ASH, and the COMBUS-
TION is SO PERFECT that it ACTUALLY goes TWICE AS
FAR AS CHEAPER MIXTURES. Packed in patent
V ACUUMISED TINS, guaranteed to keep the TOBACCO in
GOOD CONDITION for ANY TIME in ANY CLIMATE.
»
<■ OAIDO^
5 <7/^
MEDIUM STRENGTH—2oz. 1/3, by post 1/6 ; 4oz. 2/6, by post 2/10 ; per lb., 9/6 ;
postage—N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.
No. 1800A—Shaving' Set,
two China Cups, Shaving
Brush and 6in. Bevelled
Glass on Nickel Stand, 16/6
No. 17!)9X—Polished Oak Rack,
with Bevelled Glass Mirror,
Hollow-back Cloth and Hat
Brushes, 9/-
No. 1816—Shaving Set, Polished
Wood Base, with sin. Adjustable
Bevelled Mirror, Nickel Mug,
China-lined Bowl, and Brush,
13/6.
No. 18030—Shaving Set, in
White Celluloid, with 6in.
Bevelled Mirror, Shaving Cup
and Brush, 12/6.
No. 1817 X—Nickel-mounted Stand, with
Bevelled Mirror, Nickel and Imitation
Marble-mounted Hair and Cloth
Brushes, 28/6.
No. 1817—With Embossed Nickel
Brushes. 28/6.
No. 1803 X—Shaving Set, in White
Celluloid, 6in. Bevelled Mirror,
China-lined Bowl, Brush and
Shaving Soap Case, 20/-
RENOWNED
WHITE SEWING MACHINES
RUNNING
There is no better Machine made than the World-Renowned
WHITE, which combines simplicity, quality and economy
— with faithful construction and elegant finish.
The WHITE- embraces all that stands for EFFICIENCY in SEWING MACHINES.
A Tension Device
is a simple thing, and yet good sewing is impossible with-
out a correct tension. You know this from experience.
The White Pinch Tension
is without a peer. It pinches the thread just enough to
produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
The White Tension Indicator
shows the state of the tension at all times. A tension can
be changed or duplicated in an instant. Every machine
user will appreciate this device.
The White Tension Releaser
operating with a lifter bar, instantly removes all tension
from the thread.
The Dust Caps
on needle and presser bars prevent the ingress of dust;
hence easier, smoother working.
The White Drop-Head Automatic Lift
is the latest improvement in Sewing Machines, and is a
White feature.
T H ® , VIBRATING shuttle
MAOHIiNES. as illustrated, are elegantly
constructed, fitted with an Automatic Lift,
by means of which the simple raising of the cover
brings the head of the machine automatically up
into position ready for use. Each machine has
nickel-plated head wheel, hanging' centre panel, and
drawers at each end of table, with beautiful swell
front-furniture, the most attractive style yet
brought out.
All WHITE Machines are fitted with ball
bearings, and supplied with a full set of the latest
style steel attachments.
No. 24V ....with 2 Drawers, £5/12/6
No. 25V, as illustration, with 4 Drawers, £6
No. 27V, as illustration, with 6 Drawers, £6/15/-
Write for Illustrated Price List of
MACHINES posted- free on
SEWING
request.
mil 1
'111(1111iH i lf E f iliflft fc!
4)«u*
mn#l«
no
e-T
ooqs>°.
o°® qSSScks
©o®S
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
(SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Health}' and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
in HOT
or COLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
AM’s
Lait
wro
Reg?.
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM & SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
[OHPIEM
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
Insist on your dealer
with socks, stockings,
marked
supplying you
and underwear
Then you have the finest unshrinkable all-wool hosiery that
can be bought. It isn’t a matter of greater cost. iSBSf
cost no more than ordinary all-wool wear.
“Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear, for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock
he can obtain it from his
wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for
“Jason” Booklet and
name of nearest Agent ,
to
Jason Hosiery Co„
Leicester, England.
AaS
'JSms
r
V V
I * N
» >
THERE IS NO DANGER!
No matter how steep the hill, if your bicycle is
fitted with an Eadie Coaster —the rear hub with
never failing brake, which answers immediately to
the slightest backward pressure of the pedals. The
EADIE COASTER
can be fitted to any make of bicycle. There are
no rods or levers to trouble you and your ma-
chine is always under perfect control. With the
EADIE TWO-SPEED
Coaster you have all the efficiency of the Eadie
Coaster with the additional advantage of a variable
gear. The new Australasian edition of the B.S.A.
Handbook contains full details. Send for a free
copy from
D. Y. RENNIE
5 Stock Exchange
building
MELBOURNE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd
CADIf
COASTU
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®. Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors— The Hon A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. VV. APPERLY, Secretary.
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat ?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
"A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS. AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N.S.W. Branch Offices 522 George Street, Sydney.
A Leading Publicist and Criminologist
and Justice of the Peace says there is
no Medicine to equal Clements Tonic.
“ I Speak from Personal Experience of its Merits.”
Mr. Albert Sydney Watson, M.A., LL. 8., J.P., who gives
this Clements Tonic testimony, was recently a sitting Magistrate
for Queensland; also J.P. for South Australia, and recently
directed the Aviation Exhibition in Adelaide. He founded and
was secretary of the Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society of New
Zealand, and on his departure was presented with an illuminated
address, signed by the Chief Justice, the Stipendiary Magistrate,
the visiting Justice of the Prisons, the Mayor of Wellington,
Members of Parliament, etc., in recognition of his organising
services. The Government of the Australian States have always
been glad of his opinion on their prison systems (vide newspaper
reports). He is Director of the Progress Advertising Agency
Propy., Ltd., Melbourne, and directly associated with other
large businesses. He writes as follows :
“ 368 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
“November 6, 1910.
“ CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“Undoubtedly Clements Tonic is the standard
remedy of Australia. There is no imported medicine
to equal it, and nothing manufactured in Australasia
to be mentioned in the same breath with it. It has
the most powerful possible tonic and recuperative
properties, while at the same time it is a perfectly sate
remedy, and may be used by old and young alike. I
have proved the value of this medicine, and hence
speak from personal experience of its merits. You
may use this as you think fit.
“(Signed) ALBERT S. WATSON,
“M.A., LL.B., of U.S.A.”
♦
Very many persons who have used CLEMENTS TONIC, and have
been entirely cured of their ailments, declare that to have this remedy
in the house is to be ensured against ill-health. They write thus to the
proprietors, therefore - !!, is wise for everyone to keep it, because here are
three effects of its use(l) It makes the liver active; (2) the heart
regular ; (3) the nerves sound as steel. If these vital functions are kept
in this order, you keep well. All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere.


Do
You
Want
Long, Heavy Hair?
Then treat your hair well. See
that it is properly fed. Growth
of every kind demands proper
food. Starved hair splits at the
ends, turns prematurely gray,
keeps short and dry. Then feed
your hair. Feed it with proper
food, a regular hair-food. Feed
it with Ayer's Hair Vigor. Thus
help nature all you possibly can
toward giving you rich, heavy,
luxuriant hair. Ask your doctor
about your hair and about Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. Follow his advice.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A,
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
MEAD
, Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Fret
Trial• Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears.
IB.S.A. Free Wheels, Fly$r or Brook’s
Saddles, etc.
LATEST ~
MODELS
d£3m10 to £9
Tyres and accessories atj halt usual prices.
Write at once, using: sufficient postage, for
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 280, LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent, 157 Clarenoe St., Sydney.
THE
IDEAL APERIENT
isfluioa
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is
The
on any cartridge is
recognised by all
sporismen the world
over as a hall-mark of
excellence and reliability
The ‘ Universal ’ 12-Bore Cartridge
is one of the most popular of all.
‘Eley Smokeless’ —the popular low-
price cartridge.^
‘Eley 22 Rim Cartridge’ —accurate
and clean.
Obtainable through your Gunmakev ov DeulCV.
Seethe I
name
‘Eley*
on all
, car-
i tridges
mm
U
w
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
N£*s
WJiJHLHOSS
iSg?
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss ” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
GOUGHS, GOLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPINC COUGH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORDS Essence of Coffee,
*• OUR. JACK’* Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere.. 100 CUPS FOR 116 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Carrie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
When you look into the mirror, and your
hollow cheeks, thin neck and scrawny arms
mock even you, what effect do you suppose they
have on those with whom you mix socially ?
A woman’s chief charm is a well-rounded
figure and full bosom. With these, thin
arms and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
If your bust lacks development, and you
are scraggly and attenuated, we will advise
you free, and gladly, as to how you may im-
prove your figure and beautify your bust.
WOMEN’S LACK OF
BUST
DEVELOPMENT!
We are only too pleased to tell you the
sectet, for we know it cannot fail, and that
'in*a few weeks you will be happier, healthier,
and more sought after, than in your present
emaciated condition.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages
of ill-health have sought and accepted this
advice, and to-day are models of womanly
development and examples of perfect health.
The same success awaits your call. In the
wake of attenuation follow such complaints as
constipation, indigestion, bilious headaches,
internal functional derangements, etc. As
your development advances and weight im-
proves, these gradually disappear, and perfect
health results.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us tell you the
secret free, and also send you a FREE
SAMPLE of Treatment. Write to-day.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
5 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY,
Cor. Castlereagh and Market Str ets. [lBO2
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
HoHick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle. j
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
'A
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling HoHick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch.
No confusion arises when you order Horllck’S, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of Horl ick’s as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples : 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRlM-
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is madt
of soft pliable rubber, which presses
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not a vice, but a disease—happily one that is curable.
DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.) is a certain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS : 54 Russell Street,
Melbourne; 1161 Hay Street, Perth,W. A. [l
L&CHardimuihs
vrAvw v mm Ann
PENCILS
A Silken Touch as
Light as a Butterfly.
Nothing too good can be said about
the quality <>f the “ Koh-i-noor.”
It is known tVie world over < as the
best pencil made. Try the “ Koh-i-
-noor” —you will be delighted with
its firm velvety touch and its re-
markable durability. In 17 degrees.
From Stationers, &c, throughout the
World.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd,
Koh-i-noor House, London,England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fairyland.
It is nowhere, of course, in the noonday hour —
At least, till we open our eyes so wide
That they pierce the glamor, subdue the power
Of the sorcerer sun and his infidel pride.
It is nowhere, of course, in the glade of doubt.
Till a fairy we call a chance can change
Our feet to the wings that will waft us out
O’er an old soul-spoor, or a new dream-range.
It is nowhere in cities, unless to the eye
That sees by the porch where the street-lovers
kissed.
Eternally looping the pavement and sky,
A god and a goddess keeping their tryst.
It is nowhere in forum, nowhere in mob ;
Yet muddy the eyes of our souls if there
The refrain of a song or a patriot’s sob
No dream-hallowed city build in the air.
(For Gracchus again on that soap-box stands !
There Thersites is complaining yet!
What holds Harmodius in his hands ?
Theroigtie, that suffragette !)
It is nowhere where Numbers to Order confuse
The mean and the great, at least till our ears
Detect ’neath the monotone mask of the Muse,
Pythagoras-like, the carolling spheres.
It is nowhere, of course, where the gold-seekers
strive,
Although, while we ramble the scrub in the
night,
The leaves of the saplings with elves are alive,
And the leprechauns dance round , the old
“ whim ’’-site.
It is nowhere when normal the heart-tides flow—
But dear is the day when the pulses unlock
A postern in Space that we know not,, and show
Titahia fresh in a sweetheart’s frock.
It is nowhere, of course, in the hodden year, ,
But the boy in our souls can see it pass
When the green flame licks the winter’s bier, •
And the bluebells nod to the “ shivery grass.”
When September, astride on leviathan Change,
Splashes the gold of his wake on the green ;
When summer exhausts with his passion the
range,
And wizards to russet the lush of the dene.
When the white gum-bloom to the bee confides,
And the hill-top fern to the zephyr’s ear
The words of their wills to their far, dear brides,
The boy in our souls will the fairies hear 1
They are tillers on margins of all that we know.
Preparers of ways in the forest and fen ;
They but seem to be nowhere, because they go
Far hinterlands duly to open to men.
And nowhere kneels student, selected to chant
A new Word of God, or an old to explain ;
But above him a fairy is posted to plant,
Like a swift gleam .of light, the Word in his
brain !
victoria.
BERNARD O'DOWD.
The Sentinel.
Dim were the lights in all the wards.
The Night Nurse softly crept,
In slippered feet, from room to room,
To note who waked or slept. ~
A-down the corridor I heard
The stertorous breath of one
Unknown, worn, suff’ring comrade, who
Ere morning might be gone.
Beyond the window of my room
Unseen the stars on high
Crept up; I heard, in gaslit streets.
The living World go by.
Hour followed hour, until at long,
Long last strange stillness grew ;
And somewhere in the distance tolled
The weary strokes of “Two.”
Wan was the light in all the wards 1
Across my room again,
The shadow of* the Night Nurse passed :
A Sentinel of Pain.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
A Query.
“ Friend, in your leisure, pray, what do you do ?
Have you no problem to champ or to chew ?
Have you no crotchet or time-honored cult ?
Have you no spook you can call or consult f
What is the ’doxy you mostly affect ?
l*What is the doctrine you damn or dissect ?
; Is your breast free from the frets of the fool?'.
What is your credo, and where is your school ?
“How does your soul make its deepest salaam, ?
Bow you to Buddha or bend you to Brahm ?
When your mind’s free on what quest does it
roam ?
What is your hobby whene’er you ! re at home ? ”
“ Hobby ? ” you ask me. “ What hobby have I?”
Just to look on as the hobbies go by;
Just to look on as they gallop and gad,
Goaded to death in the chase of a fad ;
Just to look on as the hobby-nags fall,
Pitching the hobby men over the wall.
.Heedless of Buddha and careless of Brahm,
No fashion hail I with foolish salaam ;
Turning deaf ears to the faddists who call.
My hobby is having no hobby at all!
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


Combination Couch and Bed
CHANGED
INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
*■*#<«»*•* *■ • .'ll' t\
'v- »' =» v > *■ v.' v n *
f. •». * i i i v i •
'tf,V
CLOSED AS COUCH.
rufs
i&»3&
- ■...
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 2l)s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
LI EUR. ]
BENEDICTINE
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereafrli Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MAflE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention. *•
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhisky
LD
OWNEy
frer sco^
•s;
Sat
Is
: • '/ • ' x ' 1 i * i >T *
< : H 1 ;i
ar* U J
v,
i?s*
i§£
*■
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE— T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE— Elliott Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE-Lord & Heseltine.
HOBART—John Ferguson & CoJ
LAUNBESTON —Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR IHE HOME
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Now
retail prices are largely governed by the method of merchandising the goods*
Closely interwoven with our policy of quality, sincerity and integrity are Cash
Principles, which mainly account for the lowness of our priced and the superiority of our
stocks* With ready money available in big sums* we are welcomed in the most exclusive
manufactories* and thus our silverplated ware is always better in design, and costs less*
We countenance neither debts nor middlemen of any kind* Be sure of the quality* Be certain
of a saving* The “Treasure House” merits
your patronage* Some specially attractive
Toilet Ware.
H7G76—Solid Silver Frog- X’in
Cushion, 8/6
57287—501 id Silver and Cut Glass
Toilet Bottle, 6£in. high, £5 15s.
1i6004 Sterling- Silver
Mounted Manicure
Scissors, curved points.
8/6
04835—Solid Silver Trinket Box, size
5 x 3i £4
•nn'35 —Handsome Silver-plated Jewel box, Satin-lined, with lock and key, size 7x6,
Sjiii. high ; price £5 ss. A large selection of other designs in stock, ranging in
prices from 7/6 upwards.
G796o—Soiid Silver Hair Brush, 12/6; with Comb, in case, 20/-
G7964—Solid Silver Hand Mirror, same design, 27/6
J3sol—Sterling Silver Pearl Shell Pin Tray, 7/6
(Kangaroo or Emu).
J4lGB—Solid Silver and Out Glass
Powder Box, 10/6
G 6697— Sterling Silver Lavender
Salts Bottle Holder, 30/-
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.,
(Australia), Ltd.,
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1620.
THURSDAY, AIARCH 2, 1911.
Price 6n.
THE SADDEST COUNTRY IN THE WORLD.
Sir John Sinclair, a member of the Scottish Agricultural Commission which recently toured Australia, interviewed on his return, said Australia was the saddest country he had
ever seen. He had never heard more bitter expressions used by employees to employers, and vice versa. —Cable News.
THE RETURNED TOURIST: “Hey, Ah tell ye Ah had no’ been in Australly more’n half an hoor before the sun cam’ oot upon me. An’ then
Ah heerd a mon refuse fower shullin’ the day wages.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macluod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosinan, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
■Office of the Co., 214 George-streec North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only)
ißer Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
•Half-nearly n r? a
Quarterly 0 7 0
fired to Tm? Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
■binllinus sterling you can have. Tin? Bui.i.ktin posted
regularly to you (.very week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Bn si ness Communications
" e addressed to William Maclkoii, Managing Director,
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tin? Bullktin would oblige the paper
[and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address,.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case he addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
it is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
oMetals. The person may not be there; the oficial
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable lo be refused.
2he contents of this paper are copyright by the nub-
ushers, 'The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column, all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social,or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, HOOD ivor.ls, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Betters, or Xewsvaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tin? Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
< address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
•are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tm? Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of ,1/S.
7o Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint. Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
atiy interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such ,artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Thk Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at U/G per doz. nett.
Copies of Tin? Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London,. If'. C.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown ; 'The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S, A. —lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; /nternational
Neios Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hon o Kong. —Brewer aiul Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bullktin metal advertising plates,size Giin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1911.
ABOUT CERTAIN COMPLICATIONS.
Them: is again the clatter of broken dishes from
inland Asia, and China has received an ultimatum
of sorts, and the boots of the Cossack are stand-
ing on the dragon’s tail. It is not exactly war,
unless China is pleased to make it war ; rather it
is a case of another vacant scrap of the old croc-
kery empire being quietly annexed, and there is
no reason to believe that the crockery empire is
ready as yet to argue the point. The item seems
trivial, obscure and far off. Yet there is much
significance in it. It may be taken to mean
that Russia and Japan are really friends and allies
these days, for it is impossible to suppose that the
Cossack would take the risk of putting his boots
on the tail of the dragon otherwise ; and that
signifies that when Japan starts to be nasty to
Australia there is no present risk of Russian inter-
ference. It may also be taken to mean that there
is no longer any entente of Britain, France and
Russia to resist the Triple Alliance, and that
Russia has made terms with Germany, and has
decided that, if Germany thinks it can lick
Britain or annex Holland and Belgium, it is
welcome to make the effort so far as the
big Bear Empire is concerned. It is im-
possible to imagine the lumbering Muscovite
animal risking complications in Asia unless it had
decided that, so far as it was concerned, there
would be no immediate complications in Europe.
And the situation also implies that the web of
friendly agreements, on the alleged making of
which rested Edward Vll.’s name for stupendous
statesmanship, is quite vanished, and is gone
where the torn things go. In fact, hardly anyone
mentions Edward VII. these days, and his diplo-
macy has dropped almost wholly out of the public
view.
* * * *
International affairs have taken a curiously cir-
cular direction during the last dozen or more
years. First there was Britain’s ill-starred alliance
with Japan, fixed up as a safeguard against some
public jim-jam which nobody seems able to locate
these days. That alliance bought for J. Bull some
measure of ill-will in Europe, which has a sort of
prejudice against the idea of a white nation hiring
a brown one to fight the battle of Asia against
Europe. It also did a lot to undermine the posi-
tion in India, where the babu fondly persuaded
himself that a falling Britain had, as a last
resort,- hired an Asiatic race to be the prop
of its slumping years. Further, it greatly
strengthened Japan for future aggression against
the white man’s power in the Pacific. Then
Britain heard that Japan would probably, after
1915, join the anti-British Triple Alliance, and
J. Bull began to darkly suspect that he had
backed the wrong horse. It is difficult to see
what else Japan could be expected to do with the
new power which Britain helped to confer upon
it, for the only empty lands worth exploiting in
the Pacific are British property. About this time
there came to pass that strange, vague, hazy,
shamblesome “understanding” which was ver-
bally patched up among Britain, France and the
dilapidated remains of Russia. This seemed to
be a faint attempt, engineered personally
by the late King, to undo the blunder
that was made when Britain backed the wrong
brown horse. For a time there were high expecta-
tions about the three-cornered “understanding,”
and it was looked upon almost as a counter-
balance to the famous Triplice. But Germany
and Austria resolved to find out exactly where
they stood, so they virtually served notice on the
three-cornered “understanding” that it was to
acquiesce in Austria’s annexations in the Balkan
Peninsula, or else fight. This was hitting a cob-
web with a club, and the “ understanding” dried
up and blew away. France wouldn’t face a com-
bine which could raise 7,000,000 soldiers when its
British friend could only find 100,000. Russia
wouldn’t fight on its qwu in a quarrel that was
not wholly its own quarrel. Besides, the three-
cornered “ understanding,” which really rested on
the affability of Edward VII., wasn’t a real
treaty or combine, and when it got short notice to
fight or back down no member of the trio knew
vvhat the other two would do, or how far they
were willing to go, and no member had time to
find out. As a natural result, the combine passed
out in smoke.
* * * *
So the present situation seems to work out
somewhat as follows :
(1) Russia doesn’t care twopence for the British army,
because that army can’t reach it, and it is only an infini-
tesimal force at best.
(2) It doesn’t care so much as it did for the British
navy, because, thanks to the Anglo-Jap alliance, it has
now no navy of its own for the British fleets to destroy.
(3) It doesn’t like Britain because of the Anglo-Jap
alliance.
(4) It has made terms with Japan because Japan
(backed by Britain) has shown a considerable capacity
for being disagreeable.
(5) It has. made terms with Germany because it isn’t
worth while arguing points against Germany with Britain
as an ally. An ally that can oidy raise 100,000 soldiers is
a joke these days.
(6) It proceeds to compensate itself for the disasters
brought upon it by the Anglo-Jap alliance, and for the
humiliation brought upon it when Edward’s Vll. ’s vague
and casual understanding of Britain, Russia and France
bumped against the stone wall of the Triple Alliance, by
.plundering China, which Britain doesn’t want to see
plundered.
(7) Japan makes terms with Russia because it has (with'
British assistance) got all it can hope to get out of
Russia. It is quite willing that Russia should compen-
sate itself for its past losses at the cost of China if that
will make Russia feel better. Also, it will be quite pleased
to see Russia tangled up with Chinese enterprises While
it (Japan) starts a new career in' the Pacific.
(8) Germany is also quite willing that Russia should
start out to eat up bits of China. The more it is em-
ployed there the less chance there is of Russian interfer-
ence should Germany get busy with new devices in and
around the North Sea.
(9) Japan in the east and Germany and Austria in the
west naturally gravitate together. The first wants to
plunder the British Empire at qne end. The other two
seek to plunder it at the other end. Japan has finished
with Britain,- It has used Britain for the purpose of rob-
bing'Russia, China and Korea. It can’t hope to use it
for the purpose of robbing the United States or Aus-
tralia. So the Anglo-Jap combine nears an end;
(10) Turkey drifts towards the Triple Alliance. It
found that Britain wouldn’t, or couldn’t, help it, when
Austria proposed to take Bosnia and Herzegovina from
it, and it makes the best terms it can with the stronger
party.
* * * *
It is a complicated situation, but Britain seems
to have at least reaped something out of the
league with its Brown Friend. The Power which
might have been some kind of a check on any pos-
sible German devices against the British Isles,
and against any possible Japanese devices against
the British Empire in the Pacific, has been
crippled by the Anglo-Jap policy, and has thrown
up its job in disgust. As a sideline it seems to
have decided to get compensation at the cost Of
Britain’s Chinese ally. The Triple Alliance re-
mains, and has a prospect of adding Turkey and
Japan to its strength. The entente which Edward
VII. devised has drifted to pieces, and Edward
VII., regarded as the stupendous statesman of
his day, is no longer heard of. In short, the
curse of the Anglo-Jap alliance—the unnatural
league of the white man and the brown—has come
home to roost.
THE REFERENDUM; AND A STATE
LABORITE'S AMAZING ALTERNA-
TIVE TO AN AFFIRMATIVE VOTE.
Attorney-General W. A. Holman, of N.S.W.,
is probably the only living anfci-Federalist, out-
side one or other of the asylums, who still clings
doggedly to every one of the geebung theories of
a decade back. Ten years ago Holman, in
common with the rest of the State Frighters, was
opposed to the institution of the Senate, because
he feared that such a chamber might “wrong”
N. S. Wales. Also, he revolted at the idea
of the High Court, since he foresaw that
a High Court would cause N. S. Wales to
be “wronged” even more flagitiously. And
he has never contrived, in all these years, to
jettison the view which haunted those of his way
of thought, when Federation was in the making,
that both the Representatives and the Senate
would divide persistently on State lines. All
those ancient fears have vanished from the minds
of normal men. The Senate, at the present time,
holds a powerful Labor majority, so little hostile
to N. S. Wales that it recently assisted to humor
that cantankerous State with a Capital site
whose suitability was questioned by N. S.
Wales Government officials themselves. The
High Court’s decisions have uniformly satis-
fied the very extremists of the N. S.
Wales State Frights party. Neither House of
Representatives nor Senate has shown, during
their entire existence, the remotest tendency to
divide on State lines. Yet Holman confided to
the Sydney morning papers, last week, that, so
far as he was concerned, the old pre-Federation
spectres remained in sound working order. He is
still terrified that at any moment the Queensland,
South Aus., W.A. and Tasmanian Senators may
rush together and evolve a plot to fleece or ruin
N. S. Wales. And he anticipates that, when they
have rushed their nefarious scheme through the
“Upper” House, it will be an easy matter to get
it accepted in the “Lower” one (nearly one-third
of which consists of N. S. Wales representatives),
and that subsequently it will find a warm upholder
in the High Court.
* * * *
Accordingly he called, last week, in the name
of State Rights, for the abolition of both the
Senate and the High Court. And he offered this
as an alternative to the Referendum proposals
designed to bring about the New Protection and
generally secure a fair wage for workers, while
maintaining a fair field for manufacturers,
throughout Australia. It may be said, in defence,
that Holman wants the State Courts to have the
job of deciding when the Federal Parliament has
or has not exceeded its powers. But such a scheme
is unthinkable. It would, for one thing, involve
half a dozen different jurisdictions grappling with
any one Act, and inevitably coming to different con-
clusions in regard to it, and ultimately sending it
12,000 miles away for the consideration of a
body which is, in the nature of things, blankly
ignorant of Australian domestic affairs. In any
case such measures as are involved in the
Referendum proposals would be unlikely to fare
better before a State Supreme Court than before
a Federal High Court. One is driven to the con-
clusion that, in demanding the extinction of the
Senate and the High Court, as an alternative to
voting “Yes” on the Referenda, Holman wants
to see Australia run by the House of Re-
presentatives alone. States Frights people
might profitably ‘consider where they would
stand if this suggestion of their champion
were adopted. The cardinal difference between a
Federal and a unified Government lies in the fact
that the first may only legislate within defined
lines; while the second may range wherever it
will. Coke said of the British Parliament, which
is the classic example of government under unifi-
cation, that “ it could do anything except make a
man a woman.” The liberty of the Australian
Parliament, on the other hand, is restricted in a
thousand directions. It is tied down as rigidly as
a Joint Stock Company is by its Articles of Asso-
ciation, or as a municipality is by the pro-
visions of the Local Government Act. So effectively
are Commonwealth legislators leg-roped by the
mandate of electors, many of whom are dead,
that they are unable to put on the Statute book
laws which are urgently demanded by electors,
everyone of whom is alive and vitally concerned
in the matter. Thus it comes about that a Re-
ferendum, with all its attendant noise, lies, waste
of energy, bad language and expense, is required
before the New Protection policy, which a big
majority of present-day Australians has ap-
proved, can become law; while—to cite another
case—a clique of land monopolists considers it has
a fair chance of upsetting the validity of a tax
which is generally recognised to be an essential of
national development.
* *■ * -Jr
Now, the High Court is something more than
the last hope of Toryism ; it is, above everything,
“ the guardian of the States.” In the absence of
a Court empowered to interpret the legality of its
Acts, the National Parliament could exterminate
State Governors, State Assemblies and State
Councils out of hand. It could impose land taxes,
and-not even give a Sydney legal firm the satis-
faction of litigating in opposition to them. It
could declare C. G. Wade a demented mullah,
and order his deportation to Central Papua.
It could abolish the Lord Mayor of
Sydney, and appropriate his allowance,
and command the N. S. Wales “Liberal” Ass to
take up its abode in Cunnatnulla. In short, it
could pass whatever absurd, harassing or anti-
State legislation it liked, and there would be none
to say it nay. It is unlikely that any Australian
Parliament, however free a hand it had, would
dream of legislating to the detriment of N. S.
Wales. But, then, it is even more unlikely
that the Senate, or the High Court, or both,
would be privy to the anti-N. S. Wales
measures, the possibility whereof keeps people
like Holman in a chronic tremor of anxiety.
Which makes it the more difficult to grasp
the grounds on which an alleged Laborite—
however frantic his State Frights prejudices—can
oppose a set of Referendum questions whose car-
riage is essential to legislation that every genuine
democrat in Australia approves. When, in the
same breath in which he claims that his hatred of
the Referendum proposals is due to his love of the
Ma State, he clamors for the destruction of the
two institutions wherein resides the States Fright-
ers’ only hope on earth, he becomes stupefying.
It is as though a man were to attempt to drown
his well-loved wife because he feared that at some
unspecified time in the future she might contract
a cold in the head.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Blood That Is Never Shed.
Last week Solemn Lee, of N.S.W., following the
lead set a few days earlier by Buuce Smith, Aus-
tralia's master of platitude and champiou of tripe,
came out with a loud prophecy that, unless the
people of Australia vote the Tory ticket on the
Referenda questions, there will be a Revolution,
and Blood' aud- Anarchy. And the cry of Lee,
which was formerly the howl or bay of Smith, is
being taken up enthusiastically in Tory circles. In
fact, there are indications that the’civil war or gore
menace is to be used as freely in the coming cam-
paign as the Sosh or Tiger menace was a few
years ago. The tactics are not new. In fact, the
threat that wholesale blood-letting must follow
on any interference with the established order of
things has been tearing hysterically round ever
since the first troglodyte hesitatingly propounded
the theory chat pilfering, as between family and
family, should be discouraged by the cave-dwel-
ling community. There has not been a solitary
reform of any importance mooted within living
recollection that has not been greeted with this
weary old menace of gore. It has been one of the
main arguments against Irish Home Rule for
years. Only a couple of months ago Viscount
Helmsley, M.P., told the Yorkshire electors that
“if Home Rule was smuggled through they must
make up their minds to have to send troops to
the North of Ireland, and they must make up
their minds that they would have to order those
troops to fire upon loyal Ulster friends, who said
that rather than submit to Home Rule, rather
than pay taxes to a Parliament in Dublin, rather
than be under the heel of those they had always
been opposed to, both politically and religiously,
they would take up arms and resist to the death.”
No rational citizen believed for a moment that
Home Rule was going to produce civil war in
modern Ireland ; but immediately cables started
to fly round mentioning that “arms were being
stacked in large quantitiesin Ulster Orange Halls ”
and generally, the spook of Ber-lud was thrust in
the face of the people by interested parties. Four
years ago George Reid was exploiting the same
/V r le was worth here. Bucolic audiences
shuddered at the word-pictures he drew of the
Anarchy that was going to blight the Common-
wealth if the “Socialists” were returned to
power He averred that an immediate result of
his defeat at the polls, and the triumph of the
Revolutionaries,” would be the “institution of
that form of Government which we see advo-
cated by the Ravachols of the European conti-
nent.” Many an aged woman left Reid’s meetings,
m those days, convinced that if J. O. Watson
became Prime Minister her weazand would be slit
within 24 hours. During the late coal strike in
N. S. Wales, the indigenous Tory talked blood
with such conviction and persistency that imag-
inative hearers could almost hear the trickle of
the fluid. However, it never did trickle. It
never does. It didn’t flow when the people de-
»cided to turn down the Dreadnought proposal.
It didn’t flow when they further decided to 'dis-
pense with a hired British fleet and inaugurate
one of their own, though a thousand mouthing
“Imperialists” vowed at different times that
there would be civil war and widespread
slaughter in Australia before such an unthink-
able piece of disloyalty were • permitted.
Various excited Tories confidently predicted in-
ternecine strife during the past half-dozen years
(1) if N.S.W. omitted to Secesh; (2) if the
Church of Rome did not either cease machinating
or leave the country ; (3) if the 255. swindle was
defeated ; (4) if Fisher continued to slight Pre-
miers’Conferences; (5) if Total Prohibition was
not carried within 12 months. About the last
time the tactics which Lee. Smith and the rest
are now employing came off in an Anglo-Saxon
community was some (10 years ago. Covert in-
citements to riot and bloodshed, along the lines
now being tried in Australia, were used so suc-
cessfully by the baser sort of Anti-Corn-Law
Leagueite that numbers of inoffensive Britons
were slain arid more were injured. But the tend-
ency of modern electors is to greet hopeful pro-
phecies about the gore that is-going to flow unless
the Tory cause triumphs with derision. They have
seen them falsified so often.
A Coronation Ode.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rats ! Shall the idle pomp of little kings—
Re-gilded tinsel of the petty past,
Flauntings of yellow, sticks and golden hats,
And fat archbishops’ blessings lightly cast
Have power to stay the beat of wider wings
Winnowing the splendid air of purpose? Rats!
Rats ! Let them hold their idle pantomime
Above the squalor of the hungry street,
Drawing their gaudy coaches and George Reid
To gather round their Lord’s high mercy-seat.
Mercy ? One wasted jewel there a-shine
Had given their starving London a square feed !
O blessed land of Cobden and the poor,
0 happy place of dukelings and Freetrade,
Cast us a ribbon or a tinsel star,
And let us sit within the royal shade,
To make our calling and election sure,
And show the world exactly what we are !
Lo. from the east and from the south they come 1
Black, dun and tan, the kiugs in long array ;
And saffron princes of unholy mug,
Grin in their turbans at the outworn play ;
And white men, on the royal door-mat dumb,
(iape at the glittering grave their hands have dug.
Behold the princes of the people stand,
Grinning their homage in a ; courtly row—
Our Andy Fisher, Premier Jim and all,
In Windsor uniforms to aid the show !
They are as small potatoes in the land
Where whiskered niggers hear an empire’s call.
White men, that white men’s votes have made as
kings,
Crowned with high purpose and election cheers,
How softly shall the supple, sliding knee
Bend homage ’mid the peers that were no peers
To such as you, while old uuburied things
Crawl over you with slime of memory !
Away ! Australian fields are wide and fair,
Australian cities crooked, pent and crammed,
Australian railways twist their corkscrew round
With broken gauges, and her ports are damned
For lack of linking steel! Shall we forbear
To speak a coronation curse profound ?
With armed kids enwaddied for defence,
We flap slow flags of paper up and down,
While every falling with a parish spite
Makes blatant brag of Britain’s old renown,
And swells his bosom with the stale pretence
That this large, leaky Empire’s bung is tight.
We do not mind King George's golden cap—
God save the King, by all means, if you will !
Our reverence for England is profound ;
Only the crawlful grovel makes us ill,
And doesn’t help His Majesty a rap,
With all the nigger kings salaaming round.
Rats ! While Australia has her work to do
Let her keep at it. Larger tasks are set
The nation-builders than the flimsy show
That plays at Tudor and Plantagenet,
Making strange discord in the music new
That with white hope had fanned men’s hearts
aglow.
Rats ! Let them grovel to their soul’s content!
Bang on the drum ! Our march is forward still!
Australia of the cornfield and the forge
Feels the vast anthem of the ages thrill
Her moving continent. Let Parliament
See to Court uniforms and Royal George !
Our Parliament—the thing that yet shall be—
Labors to grander issues. Far away,
Beyond the glow of 18-carat hats,
There shines the splendid Coronation day
Of our Australian manhood. Beer for me !
Drink to King George 1 And for the tinsel—
RATS !
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMHONWEALTH.


What Modern Battles Are Won With.
This is the sort of purposeless babble with which
the S. M. Herald greeted the meeting held in
Sydney last week to boom the Australian Defence
movement
It is not true that blood and iron are the best tonics
against flabbiness. Nor is it true that might is umvers-
ally right in these latter days, as in the early days of the
" The 'strongest battalions have to admit something
stronger than numbers and discipline, as Stonewall
Jackson proved upon his opponents often enough , and
he was one who consistently turned to something: beyond
and outside of himself for inspiration and support.
The second observation is from Henderson’s
“Life of Stonewall Jackson,” which was
written 30 years ago. A good deal more perti-
nent to the present situation in Australia is
Major Maurice’s chapter on the Russo-Jap war
in the 12th volume of the “ Cambridge Modern
History,” written only the other day :
Though Japan o\ved her victory [on the Yalu] to the
blunder of a subordinate general, the moral effect of the
success on the troops was as great as though their prow-
ess alone had won the day. Japan had chosen for the
training of her army the best German instructors avail-
able, and they had set themselves to adapt the natural
fighting qualities of the people to the conditions of the 20th
century. They were led by officers who had received a
scientific education of a standard similar to that of the
military schools of Europe. But, with all this, there was
very naturally a certain anxiety until the system had
stood the ordeal of battle with a European foe, and the
telegram sent by the Japanese general staff-officers to
their German instructors from the field of buttle ex-
pressed the exultation of the whole people in the fact
that their theories had been put to the test and not
found wanting.
The men whom the Japs beat bad any amount of
that spirituality which sheets like the Herald
babble about. The rank and tile of the Russian
army went into action in much the same
frame of mind as the old Crusaders did. They
were persuaded that one of the issues was Christi-
anity versus Paganism, and that the true faith
must win. The Russian has been described by a
superlatively good judge as “ the finest fighter of
a rear-guard action in the world.” He is as fear-
less as any white man on earth, and is famed for
his patience under hardship. Summed up, he is
a born soldier. But when he came up against
the Jap he found that his junior officers
—particularly in the Siberian regiments— :
were not abreast of modern progress in their
profession. He found the seniors involved in
quarrels and disgraceful intrigues. And he found
himself ill-trained and ill-disciplined. In the
result, the Russian army was a huge but clumsy
machine. To use Maurice’s words, “It fought
gallantly, but it had little power of manoeuvre or
of initiative ; and its lack of ability to seize such
chances as the fortune of war presented forced it
continually to follow the movements of an adver-
sary who had the skill to keep the offensive.”
What Australia wants to-day, if it is to be saved
from ultimate disaster, is what Russia wanted
six years ago. The country would be no
better off in case of invasion if every
grown-up man (much less every small boy)
had a rifle, unless all were fully prepared for
war, and every man knew where his place was,
where he was to get his orders, and under what
officer he was to serve: Briefly, what is needed is
rational organisation on a large and serious scale.
While that remains in abeyance, amiable vapor-
ings about the moral effects of war, and the spirit
in which dead-and-goue generals waged their
battles, are sheer time-wasting futilities.
♦
Concerning Another Smith and His
Tough Job.
In Papua they are trying to feel as cheerful as
usual, but the situation with regard to Stani-
forth Smith, the Acting-Governor, becomes
serious ; and the chances are much worse than
level that the Kiwis have made a meal of
him and his handful. Staniforth Smith, it is
generally agreed, should not have attempted the
journey with so weak a party. But big expedi-
tions cost money, and the Papuan Administration
has very little money to spend. Apart from the
£20,000 subsidy received from the Commonwealth,
all the local Government lias to carry on with is
about £20,000 a year—to police the whole country,
maintain experimental stations, pay for adminis-
tration, and do odds and ends of public works.
Staniforth Smith no doubt knew as well as any
of his critics know now that he would have been
better off if his party had been stronger. That he
tried to get through with so few simply shows that,
with so much else to do, he was not disposed to
spendmuch to suit his own comfort or convenience.
And, admitting that he never lacked confidence
in himself, he probably knew also that there were
many men better qualified as explorers; but there
again arose the matter of £ s. d., which is
treading on the toes of the Papuan Admini-
stration all the time. That really is the
chief question which this unfortunate incident
raises, whether it ends as well as everyone hopes
or as badly as many people fear. At present the
native Papuan contributes practically nothing to
the revenue. He is as teetotal, as a rule, as
Judkins; and, though he and all his household
down almost to the last infant smoke “ tabae, ” it
is mostly native-grown and pays no duty. His
clothes are it mere trifle, and his imported food
even less. It is the few white people who con-
tribute practically all the revenue in the shape of
Customs duties; yet most of the expenditure is on
the brown people’s account —largely in keeping
order and so on. In Australia we collared Black
Brother’s land, sold it, and used and still use the
tens of millions that it realised. Again, out of
consideration for Brown Brother, there is no
“revenue” of that kind in Papua. No hmd
whatever may be bought in freehold there. After
the Government has arranged with the native
village, tile settler may lease land from the Gov-
ernment; but lie can do no more than lease. He
cannot deal at all for land with the native direct.
The Papuan formerly taxed himself in his own
way : that is to say, he settled his disputes and
“kept order” l>y personal service. He fought
for his own hand, and his tribe fought with
tribe. The new Administration has stopped
that. But it has got nothing from him in
place of the old service. The local Government
proposed personal service ; it was either that or a
hut tax. The hut-tax proposal was turned down
on sanitary grounds. The natives are already too
much addicted to herding together for their own
good, and no stimulus to worse herding found
favor with the local Government. But when per-
sonal service was recommended, the British
Exeter Hall and the Australian wowser howled.
The thing was denounced as “disguised slavery.”
That was two years ago; and nothing has been
done since. So the administration is starved,
the natives become gradually even more indolent
than they were in the days when they at least had
to be prepared to tight for their own patch of
sweet potatoes, uud officials have to attempt im-
possibilities—and perhaps perish in the attempt.
Horrors of the Bogus Breed.
The Melbourne correspondent of Sydney Tele-
graph laid himself out, last week, to demonstrate
the full horrors of an affirmative vote on the
Referenda questions. He said :
Should the amendments proposed by the Labor party
be made in the Constitution, the whole voting; power of
New South Wales or of Victoria will be completely nega-
tived by the voting- power of a small State like Tasmania
or Westralia. The people of Tasmania or of Westralia
or of South Australia will have as much control of the
domestic affairs of New South Wales as New South Wales
itself. This is what the amendments mean.
Also :
The removal of equal representation is one of the moves
which will be held back till the small States have surren-
dered their powers to the Federation. When that has
been accomplished, the party will be able to turn its
attention to extinguishing the present proportion of re-
presentation which the small States hold in one of the
Federal ehnmbers.
It will be seen from this that Toryism is taking
no chances of losing any fragment of State
Fright support that may be drifting round. It
means to have things both ways. N. S. Wales
and Victoria are warned that, if the Referenda
questions are carried, their voting power will lie
“completely negatived by the voting power in
the Senate of a small State like Tasmania or Wes-
tralia ” ; while Tasmania and the rest are assured
that the carriage of the amendments will destroy
the equal representation arrangement which they
at present enjoy in the Senate, leaving them
at the mercy of N.S. W. or Victoria or both.
In other words, if Australia votes “Yes”
next April, N.S. W. and Vic. will stand to be
destroyed by the smaller States’ machinations in
the Senate; and simultaneously, the smaller
States’ power to machinate in the Senate or else-
where will be “extinguished.” It is the sort of logic
that “ goes ” fairly well at Liberal “At Homes,”
but it is not nearly sound enough for general
consumption. As to the Labor party’s alleged in-
tention to “ extinguish the proportion of repre-
sentation which the smaller States hold in one of
the Federal chambers,” there has been no hint,
outside the anti-Labor press, of any project of the
sort. An interference with the present constitu-
tion of the Senate is no part, either of the Refer-
enda campaign or of the National programme.
True, one lonely Laborite has suggested the total
abolition of the Senate —but he happens to
be of the Telegkaph’s way of thinking in
regard to the Referenda, and is a militant
State Frighter. And then there is the mys-
terious trouble that is to come upon N. S.
Wales and Victoria “should the amendments
proposed by the Labor party be made in the Con-
stitution”—a calamity which must cause “the
whole voting power of N. S. Wales or Victoria to
be completely negatived by the voting power of a
small State like Tasmania or Westralia.” The
quaint disingenuousness of this becomes plain
when it is understood that, whether the proposed
amendments are or are not carried, N.S.W. and
Victoria will continue to stand, legislatively, in
exactly the same relation to the smaller States as
they have stood since Federation. In this respect
the Referenda result is of no more significance than
the result of the last Test match. For 10 years
the anti-Australians of N. S. Wales have been
prophesying that Tasmania or W.A., or some
other small State would “use its power” in the
Senate to the detriment of Ma. Nothing of the
sort lias been done, attempted or dreamt of. One
of the many good reasons why this is so lies in
the fact that N.S. W., though under-represented
in the Senate, is oaer-poweringly strong in the
Representatives; and any measure designed to
overthrow, hamper or otherwise “wrong” Ma
would need to be approved there before it became
operative.
The Party that Uses Straws in Its Hair
for a Compass.
After years of threatening, theMaoriland alleged
reformer of intemperance has definitely come to
the point and formally warned the politician that
his job in future will depend, as far as the intem-
perate temperance mob is concerned, on doing
what he is told by the I.T.M. At its last meet-
ing the Alliance executive agreed to issue a mani-
festo which included the following clause :
That no candidate for Parliament who maintains the
present undemocratic three-fifths majority can have the
support of the Maoriland Alliance. That every member
of the present House and every perso'n who announces
himself a candidate shall be requested to state plainly
what his attitude shall be on the majority question.
Nothing else matters—-defence, purity of race,
honesty of commercialism, education of youth,
living wage—all national ideals and immediate
necessities are not even mentioned as matters of
detail by these cranks, whose sole claim to public
attention is the complete failure of their methods
of solving the liquor question. Presumably a
Chow or a Dago icecream-hawker who is prepared
to sink every question but the fool propaganda
of the Wowsers, will carry the party vote
from a white nationalist who refuses to
subscribe to it. And if the party is
in earnest, as it threatens to be, the Chow or the "
cream Dago will be worth backing to top the poll.
That can hardly be doubted in face of the fact
that in the 1908 elections the no-license vote pre-
dominated in 52 out of 08 electorates (in Auck-
land, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin the
city electorates were grouped as one for the
purpose of the local-option vote). It might
be argued that that vote would not follow
the leading Wowsers so far as to fill the
Parliament with representatives whose only-
asset was an unswerving loyalty to the cause of
quack prohibition ; but the person who advanced
such argument would have to climb over some
steep obstacles before he could convince a jury
acquainted with the evidence. Ever since the
days when William Fox got busy and formed
the M.L. Alliance (in 188 G), that body has
steadily and enthusiastically increased its in-
fluence over the public, despite its plain and
consistent failure to attain its object or
even find the track to it. Every plan it has advo-
cated, every amendment of the law it has initiated
or supported to reduce the consumption of alcohol
and lessen the amount of drunkenness, has ended
in an ignominious break-down. Nevertheless, its
atnazmg barrackers in nine years have spread
themselves from a minority of 6122, as
compared with the Bung vote in 1899,
to a total majority of 33,336 in 1908.
Meanwhile, the expenditure per head of popu-
lation on the article that stingeth like an
adder has risen from £3 4s. 9d. to £3 13s. ljd.
(according to the drink bill for 1910 issued the
other day), and the convicted “drunks” stag-
gered onward from 9.50 per 1000 of population in
1900 to 11-01 per 1000 in 1909. All of which
cannot be too often repeated by the intel-
ligent individual who contends that the public
which will boost up such a demented and
straw-haired system of reform will stand
for anything except the most urgent requirement
—that is, to. lock itself in a padded cell and
swallow the key. The next poll will be taken in
a few months under a new Act, which gives the
Hopelessly Incapable Party two shots at the
bull’s-eye, instead of one as formerly—one with a
local option bullet and one with a Dominion option
bullet. But, like everything else it has had any-
thing to do with, the party has arranged or
accepted an involved sciueme which will
lead to nowhere in particular amidst a
great clatter of double-jbinted statistics and
resounding platitudes. In between whiles, new
routes to Dryland will be surveyed, and every-
body will rush along them till the dead marines
block further progress; politicians will be yoked
up and made to draw the travelling asylum up
hill and down again; and dervishes like G. B.
Nicholls (he who saw 40 or 50 infants reeling out
of one of the most brilliantly-lighted hotels in
Sydney) will be sent to many lands to prove to
wondering and mirthful multitudes that Maori-
land’s great Hiccough is the millennium in dis-
guise. It’s a very remarkable theory, and even
the most crowded mental hospital would give it a
shakedown somewhere.
"Brown” Sugar versus “White.”
“Malik” puts what is apparently the official
Fiji view :
Concerning the matter discussed (B. 6/10/10) by one
who allegedly “ has had a good-sized list ” in the govern-
ment of Fiji, 1 would like to add a few belated remarks;
for, although your correspondent knows something of
the labor conditions of Fiji, he is not omniscient.
A commission inquiring'into the sugar industry of
Australia would not, as he truly remarks, complete its
work unless its investigations extended to Fiji, where
the C.S.R. Co.—financially a purely Australian concern—
holds a practical monopoly ' Ttie Navua mill of the Van-
couver Sugar 00. is a somewhat minor affair, the output
for 1910 being about one-tenth that of its huge rival ;
and the Penang mill of the Fiji Sugar Co. is, to all intents
and purposes, a C.S.R. outfit, for the raw sugar produced
is regularly purchased by the latter co.
Australia is interested in Fiji sugar mainly on account
of the fact that it is imported, refined and sold (mostly)
within the Commonwealth and Maoriland, thus com-
peting with the white-grown sugar of Queensland and
the Northern Rivers. Australia itself has decided
to be “white" and remain “white" if possible
—afi ambition applauded by no one more keenly
than those who have had first-hand experience
with Asiatics. The commission’s inquiries will, of course,
embrace the whole commercial aspect of the sugar in-
dustry ; and if the black-grown sugar of Fiji or elsewhere
threatens extinction to the Australian product, a remedy
must forthwith be discovered to counteract the danger.
This, then, is the work of the commission. With the
moral side of the question,,in so far as it refers to Fiji, it
has notiiing to do. Fiji is a Crown colony, administered
by the Colonial Office, not by the Australian Parliament.
Nevertheless, 1 affirm that the “ wretched Indian,”
more wretched still in ids own country, does not regard
his period of indenture in Fiji as “the nightmare of ids
life.” If so, why does he frequently re-indenture for a
further period of “ martyrdom,” or else continue to work
on plantations as a “ free man ” after his agreement lias
expired? Sometimes also, after havingbeen repatriated, lie
returns to Fiji underprecisely thesameconditions as before
to enjoy another period of five years’ “ nightmare.” llis
interests are safeguarded by immigration officers, them-
selves men who have worked labor and who administer
the immigration ordinances tempered, if anything, by a
slight bias in the Indians’ favor. The rates of coolie
labor are four or five times greater in Fiji than in India,
and, taken on the whole, the group is a paradise for the
mild Hindu as compared witli the country of tiis birth.
Compared with S’Africa or America, the darkest deed in
the history of Indian labor in Fiji reads like a page from
a Sunday-school prize-book.
Yet, after saying all this, I repeat that the previous
correspondent really hammered the wrong nail, when he
attempted to excite sympathy for the “ wretched
Indian ”in Fiji. From a humanitarian standpoint, the
matter is of no more interest to Australians than the con-
dition of the Russian peasantry or the Liberian demo-
cracy. From a commercial point of view, it is of vital
importance.
It all boils down to this, so far as Australia is
concerned. The Commonwealth has no right,
atid knows it has no right, to say to Fiji, “You
shall not do so-and-so.” But it has a complete
right to say : “If you do so-and-so, then we must
shht your goods out of our territory, not to punish
you, but in the interest of our own people.” And
it has more than the right; it is the Government’s
duty to inquire if the conditions are such as to
ihake competition with the White Australian un-
fair, and to act promptly if the inquiry points
that way.
«
Man’s Little Bit of Private Property.
“0.K.” sides with William :
William, the Kaiser of Germany, who lays down the
law in all matters pertaining to Earth and Heaven, has
delivered a weighty judgment on a case of attempted
suicide. An officer of the German army tried to kill
himself. Then, having been dismissed the army—notfor
his incompetence to complete the simple task of. self-
destruction, but for having tried to accomplish
it—he appealed to the Supreme Court of William.
And William quashed the sentence of dismissal.
William ruled that the State has no jurisdiction over
people who actually commit suicide, much less over those
who merely attempt to do so. “ They are responsible
exclusively to God,” says his Honor ; and the common-
sense of all educated communities will endorse this judg-
ment as far as it concerns the State. As regards human-
ity’s responsibilities to the Almighty, there is positively
no evidence before the Court of Common-Sense ; so the
Kaiser’s superfluous remark on that point may be ignored.
It is neither here nor there, so to speak. It is diffused in
the clouds of nebulous spirituality.
Not so many years ago the various civilised States
claimed that even the corpse of a suicide was ajneuable to
the law. In Britain the-Law buried a suicide at the
witching hour of midnight with a stake driven through
the body. But common-sense brought arguments to
bear against the alleged possibility of a corpse being
convicted of a crime, and the Law admitted
that it had been an ass. Post-mortem malefac-
tion was struck off the statutes. The Law, how-
ever, has clung tenaciously to the fallacy that a deliber-
ate attempt at self-destruction is a punishable offence
against society'. A person with a partially-cut throat, a
badly-injured head, or a somewhat poisoned interior is
liable to arrest by the police on the charge of attempted
suicide. Drowning citizens of good repute are Hot infre-
quently saved from a watery' grave in order that they
may' lie proceeded againstjfby the police. Of many a weak-
minded waster it may' be said that his abortive
attempt at suicide was the only admirable act in
his whole career ; yet it was the only one that got him
into trouble with the Law. The Law gives the habitual
non-pugnaeious drunkard full permission to be an un-
mitigated evil in life, whilst it reserves the right to
punish him or her for attempting to die. And the Law’s
only' excuse for its absurd inconsistency (born of ancient
superstition and sham Socialism) is the pretence that its
threats of punishment are calculated to deter would-be
suicides from trying to reach a place where the Wowsers
cease from troubling and the weary are at rest. A bona-
fide attempt to destroy on,es?lf expresses one’s resolute
determination to escape. favour the Law’s control ; never-
theless the Law continues fatheadedly' to claim
that it has a restraining influence on would-be self-
destroyers. It has ceased to claim a right to drive a
stake through the actual self-destroy'er’s physical iunards,
but it claims to have some terrors for suicidal minds,
although the difference between honest intent and actual
accomplishment of purpose is due to circumstances over
which the Law doesn’t claim to have any control, any-
how. The bullet which hits the brain in the bull’s-eye is
not more contemptuous of the Law than the missile
which merely scores an outer. Since, then, suicide is a
non-punishable action, and the Law cannot prevent
attempts at self-destruction, why does it persist in
asserting authority over the unsuccessful attemptors?
Kaiser William rules that a man’s life is his
own personal property; therefore, he is as much
entitled to destroy it to please himself as he
is justified in risking it in a deed of cool heroism, hysteri-
cal patriotism, or foolhardy sport. Whether he delibera-
tely lays it down in front of an express train, or loses it
through being accidentally run over by a hearse, is no
concern of the Law’s. The Government, at war tinies,
practically exhorts him to go forth and die without con-
sideration for his wife and blood relations or best girl;
therefore the old gag about a suicide’s duty to those
dear to him has no lawful significance. If he prefers
ignominy’ in a watery grave to the bubble reputation
at the cannon’s mouth, the suicide has a perfect right to
his preference. It’s his funeral, and the fact that he
doesn’t have the Government for an official chief mourner
is of no interest to him. What Kaiser William says is
that the Government which would send him into battle
and profess to mourn his death has no right to damn him
for wanting to be buried in the piping times of peace.
God may damn him, but that is another story.
The British Board of Trade has found (1) that the
Waratah was a stable, upright, seaworthy ship;
(2) that she capsized in a storm. It might have
as easily found that she was non-inflammable and
caught fire, or was simultaneously watertight and
waterlogged. A vessel to be “seaworthy ” must be
safe not safe in the Yarra or in the London
docks, but at sea, in a storm. The Waratah
didn’t have an exemption from meeting
storms or bad weather. Other vessels met
the same storm in the same place. They didn’t
capsize. The Waratah did capsize, the Board
thinks, and yet she wasn’t unseaworthy. She
was properly loaded, ballasted and manned,
and perfectly stable ; but, meeting a storm, she
tipped over. The Milson’s Point horse-punt is a
model of stability—off Fort Macquarie. But she
isn’t fit to weather a storm ; and the Waratah
vvasn’t either. The loss of the Lunp liner, suffi-
cient to drive the name of Lund off the sea, is a
severe blow to the prestige of the Board of Trade,
professionally speaking ; and the finding of the
Court, appointed by the Board itself, doesii’t wipe
away the nasty smudge which the loss of the ship
has left on British shipbuilding, and on the
theories which British shipbuilders apparently
accept.
A recent item of,cable news cast a cynical reflec-
tion on Britain’s awful Freefcrade condition. The
cable stated that the Dutch Government, with a
view to protecting the interests, of the “more
genuine ” of the local cheese-makers, was about to
introduce a bill to provide for the special labelling
of the best “ Dutch Cheshire ” cheeses exported to
Britain. A lot of inferior “ Dutch Cheshire ” is ex-
ported, it seems, and the reputation of the superior
brands of bogus Cheshire is suffering thereby. Time
was when England supplied itself with meat
and “provisions,” and different varieties of
butter and cheese were sold under the
names of the districts they came from.
Pkukyn Miodlewick, the butterman in “Cur
Boys,” a comedy that dates back nearly 40 years,
had no sooner looked at the low-grade butter on
the “ boys’” break fast-table, and sniffed at it,
than he gave it its English county name. It was
Dorset —“inferior Dosset.” At that time, and
for some time afterwards, Cheshire cheese con-
tinued to be born of Cheshire cows’ milk ; but
now it is so generally made in Holland that the
Dutch Government is taking measures to preserve
the popularity of the Dutch imitation among
British consumers. Heaven and the butterman
only know where Devonshire cream conies from !
Perhaps it is a German or Austrian contribution
to that “ free breakfast table ” which was speci-
ally designed by Cobokn and his disciples for
those sons of Britain who can’t afford the price of
an early : moruing meal.
The curse of Protection, of which nothing much
had been heard for solne time, was heatedly men-
tioned by a N.S.W. parson a week or so back
during a church harvest festival. No doubt there
is some sort of a Curse, and it is coming home
in great numbers to roost; anybody can see that
much for himself by going down to Watson’s Bay,
and watching the unending string of deeply-laden
ships that winds through the Heads and mooches
up the harbor looking for an anchorage or a berth
where it can ring off its engines and give the
weary propeller a rest. Sydney D.T., which is
strongly against the Curse, in jts issue of 23/2/’ll
mentioned with pride that there were so many
oversea vessels discharging big cargoes in port
that the extent of business at the Harbor Trust
offices was almost unprecedented. Clefiks
bearing money wherewith to pay the roost-
rent of the Curse were six deep round the
counter, and the perspiring cashiers were having
the time of their lives. The only trouble of the
port authorities, nowadays, is to find water-roosts
in sufficient numbers for the Curse; also, to. keep
enough of the Curse out of.the Quay to give the
crowded ferry-boats a little sea room. The exist-
ence of some sort of Curse is beyond question ;
and its presence can’t be denied, because every
hour the ferries have to scuttle out of its way like
startled waterfowl before a herd of wading ele-
phants. The only doubt this paper has is in
regard to the identity of the Curse. The enthu-
siastic way the D.T. slaps it on the back and pub-
lishes its chest-measurement raises doubts in
this paper’s mind as to whether it really is the
dear old Curse of Protection or some entirely
different animal. It seems much more likely
t ha tit is its half-brother —the Curse of Insufficient
Protection.
♦
At time of writing, it is estimated that 50,000
infants who are liable to bear arms under Aus-
tralia’s kindergarten defence scheme have ne-
glected to get their parents and guardians to send
in their names. Either that, or else the parents
and guardians are nervous people who regularly
read the newspaper accounts of pea-rifle tragedies-
and are of the opinion that firearms are not
good for little boys. Defence-Minister Pearce is
said to be seriously considering how best to
deal with the delinquents; and, no doubt, a
fine crop of prosecutions will soon start to sprout.
Hardworking charladies and other people will
be dragged from their work to nervously explain
that they consider Horace with a rifle in his hand
would be a menace to life and property and a
danger to himself. One can even imagine honest,
patriotic people defiantly announcing their inten-
tion of paying any fine the Court might choose to
inflict, rather than see the land defence of the
continent entrusted to shambling boys while their
elder brothers juggle with calico in city ware-
houses, or with balls on suburban pitches. If-De-
fence Minister Pearce starts proceedings against
the people who have refused to take the wretched
scheme seriously. Some resentful parent will hurl
that gibe at him for a certainty. It is the largest
and the handiest gibe this paper has seen lying
round of late, and it will make a fine projectile for
someone.
♦
“ .Tack Johnson ” : The progress we are making
towards a “sturdy yeomanry” is hardly worth
mentioning. The Government needs to take the
bit in its mouth, and bolt—bolt from past conser-
vatism, precedents, cliques, clubs, boards and
like objectionable influences. The great brake
jambed hard on progress is that the administra-
tion is out of sympathy with the wishes of the
people. The circumscribed area within which the
officers move does not conduce to the big ideas so
requisite in dealing with the land problem. Let
me quote a N.S.W. instance. A man has been
renting a squatter’s land for £1 an acre for
dairying. He applied for a special lease on
a forest reserve, and was recommended 700
acres after an exhaustive inquiry by the Land
Board. This happened months ago, and there is
no finality yet. The land is held under an annual


International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
BEARD’S British-Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
The decision of Sherwell in the fourth Test
to send the Australians in was one of those occa-
sions when an illuminated moment with a sparkle
of D.C.L, wisdom might have made all the
difference. The momentous decisions which have
the happiest results are those happily inspired by
a brief but cheerful interlude with D.C.L., the
Whisky of the Wise.*
HARRINGTONS LTD
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYPNEV-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
A Government test is often a very valuable
indication to the private buyer. For instance, when the
N.S.W. Government buys an oil engine, the machine has
to pass the eagle eye and satisfy the keen judgment of
the Government expert, and the successful manufacturer
can plume himself on the test. It is a noteworthy fact,
also, that the test is now proving a feather in the cap of
Australian Industry, as the Invipcible Motor Construc-
tion Co., Ltd., whose extensive, works are at Woolwich
Dock, Sydney, has been building numerous oil engines
recently to the order of the Federal Government and the
various States. Some idea as to the extent as to which
Australia is thus becoming independent of the foreign
oil engines may be gained from the fact that in February
—up to the 21st, to be, exact—the following orders have
been received or delivered:—
The Federal Government, 10-h.p. two cylinder marine.
Sydney Harbor Trust, 25-h.p. four cylinder marine.
N:S.W. Works Dept., 10-h.p. two C3'linder marine.
Fisheries Ddpt., S.A., 12-h.p. two' cylinder marine.
N.S.W. Works Dept., two 9-12-h.p. two cylinder marine.
Marine Board, S.A., 12-h.p. horizontal motor hoist.
The Invincible Co.’s showrooms are at 35 Pitt Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Help to “Australianise” the oil engine—buy an “In-
vincible.”*
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lily of the
Valley
Natural.
Night.
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes char m
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
S*-
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Loughj
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
lease by a squatter* and it*s guineas to goose-
berries that the Forestry Branch has recommended
that the lease be not granted—in the sacred name
of Forestry ! Yet this man is prepared to use the
land only for grazing, pay a higher rent than
the Squatter, and carry out the Forestry con-
ditions. We place men in Parliament to advance
the welfare of the people, and then submit to de-
partmental brakes being applied all the time.
And often Red Tape does more than apply the
brake. Frequently it upsets the coach.
- — ; ♦ :
Thkrk is scarcely a State Fright Tory paper in
Australia which hasn’t drawn attention to the
much-to-be-regretted trouble in the Victorian
agricultural machine-making industry. The thing
that hits most of them in the eye is that
McKay, of the harvesters, who has done
a big export business with South America,
says, if he can’t get industrial conditions fixed
stably for some years ahead, he will shut up shop
so far as export manufacture is concerned, and
simply do enough in Australia to supply Austra-
lian requirements. The State Frights Tory
papers deplore the decision, but ask, “ What else
can you expect?” So far as State Fright papers
outside Victoria are concerned, the inevitable re-
tort is, “What has it got to do with you?” If
they are interested in keeping Australian indus-
tries in Australia, why are they calling upon Aus-
tralia to vote “ No” with regard to the extension
of Commonwealth powers? Of course, as
those of us who are calling on Australia to
vote “Yes” see, N. S. Wales, and S. Australia,
and Queensland, and the others are interested in
keeping Australian industries in Australia. If
McKay shifts his works to South America, or
Europe, or some other foreign place, then by
something great or little the defence of Aus-
tralia will be weakened. Not merely Victoria,
hut Australia will lose some fighting material,
present and prospective ; and it will lose also iron
works which would very likely be of great service
in a time of crisis. Therefore, even though the
dispute does not extend outside Victoria, N. S.
Wales and Queensland and the others are greatly
concerned about securing that stability which
McKay talks about. If defence is a national
question, then the maintenance of such industrial
conditions as will bring defenders to the country
and keep them here must be a national question,
too; and, broadly, that is all the approaching
Referendum touches. If the people of Australia
assent to the proposition they must vote “ Yes.”
That well-known fair fighter, the Sydney Dairy
Telegraph, has been at it again. The central
executive of the P.L.L. issued a circular to Par-
liamentary members of the Labor party, telling
them that a committee had been appointed to en-
sure that the reply of the electors to the Refer-
endum questions would be “Yes.” Said the
circular: —•
To assist in this being done I am instructed to ask you
to state by return mail the following :
(Here follow several questions as to dates and
places of possible speeches.) The D.T., however,
put it this way :
To insist on this being done, etc.
And the Telegraph then proceeded to talk about
“a new government having been set up in the
State,” “Trades Hall domination,” and such like.
Several days later, the paper’s attention having
been drawn to its strange misreading of plain
words—a misreading which, curiously enough, so
greatly helped the D.T.’s argument—the follow-
ing small paragraph appeared in an obscure por-
tion of the reading matter :
We are informed that in the circular to the State Labor
members issued by the executive of the Political Labor
League, printed in this and other Sydney daily papers,
there was an error. The executive did not use the word
insist.” What they did was to ask Labor members to
"assist” in the referenda campaign. This, of course,
does not alter the fact that the circular was virtually a
command.
Boiled down, the “correction” comes to this.
The Telegraph was informed by somebody that
there was an error in the circular ; that the exe-
cutive did not use the word “insist ” but “assist”;
but that, anyhow, the position was virtually as set
out in the Telegraph originally. Yet if the
editor of the D.T. was informed that the directors
proposed to make some arrangements to assist in
the good conduct of the paper, it would be quite a
different thing to being told that arrange-
ments would be made to insist on the change.
The difference would be so great that the editor
would probably resign from his job.
♦
S. M. Herald mentioned another of the “things
that were never contemplated” on Monday last:
But the referendum proposals which Mr. Wise put quite
clearly in his first article, though he obscures them later
on, were designed of set purpose to accomplish results
the federation never contemplated, and does not contem-
plate now—the handing over, in a word, to the Common-
wealth the whole corpus of Labor and trade interests.
If the framers of the Federation didn’t mean
that the National Parliament should control
Labor and trade interests throughout the Com-
monwealth, they must have meant that the pre-
sent arrangement should last for all time. Under
existing circumstances, as W. M. Hughes pointed
out a few days ago, a sailor who is injured by cargo
consigned from Sydney to Melbourne may recover
under the Deakook Government’s Seamen’s Com-
pensation Act; but if he is maimed by cargo tra-
velling between (say) Sydney and Newcastle, or
between Western Port and Warrnambool, he gets
not a farthing of damages out of anyone. Was
this sort of absurdity “contemplated” by the
Federation ? If so, it amounts to a serious reflec-
tion on the Federation’s intellect.
4. ———
“ Miles,” on the alleged haughty bearing of the
Permanent Staff :
A paragraph (B. 16/2/’ll) about a certain major who has
been called upon to return a rifle suggests that it was on
account of some alleged illfeeling on the part of the staff
towards the militia officer. Here’s the answer : (1) The
return of the rifle was called for as a matter of course,
consequent upon the discovery of “shortage” and
the tracing of that shortage to individuals. Think of
the enormous waste of stores that would occur
if persons were not called upon to return borrowed
Government stores. (2) Everyone, officer or man, perma-
nent, militia or volunteer, is similarly called upon to
rettjrp, or explain the deficiency of, any borrowed stores ;
and quite rightly too. (3) The demand in question would
not have been made by the Permanent. Staff, but by the
Ordnance Department, which is a Civilian Department
in charge of stores. (4) Nearly every member of the
Permanent Staff now in Victoria, who was serving
either in Victoria or elsewhere during the war, has war
service ; so that it can hardlj' be said that the staff
“muddled things in the background” while others
rushed off to the front—with rifles that didn’t belong to
them, and which could not be of any use. As to the
charge of ill-feeling laid against the Permanent Staff, I
know of many instances that disprove it. Here is one.
A certain regiment at a camp neglected to send a repre-
sentative to draw camp equipment. A Permanent Staff
Officer displayed such “ill-feeling” that, sooner than see
the regiment without its gear, he signed for it, though
he knew that it was most unlikely that he would be in a
position to check the return of those stores. He has
since paid out of his own pocket for the deficiencies
which occurred, and for which he was in no way
responsible.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Via Wireless.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs."
Palace “Spencer’s Pictures.”
Criterion “The Belle of Brittany.”
Glaciaridm West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville. ■
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Royal .”. “ The Gay Grisette.”
Kino’s . .. “Revenue.”
Princess’s “ Why Men Love Women.”
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Open Air, St. Kilda .. The Follies.
Olympia.. Spencer’s Pictures.
♦
For all the use it makes of Breton life, the
action of “The Belle of Brittany” might have
been laid in Bourke or Hawaii or ancient Rome.
In fact, the characters would have seemed a
deal likelier, in many respects, had they been
labelled Roman instead of French. There are
possibilities, when one comes to think of it, about
a musical comedy dealing with the Rome of (say)
Vespasian’s day. The opportunities for gay cos-
tumes and gorgeous scenic effects are obvious. The
ethical outlook of the time would be in keeping.
In an age when Simon the Magician lived, and
miracles were accepted in the same spirit as we
accept aeroplanes, the incredibilities inherent in
musical shows would not appear so crude as they
do now. The later Roman Emperors were just
the sort of non-moral, picturesque lunatics whom
our imported Bretts and Walls delight to portray.
The modern comedy star would give a humor-
ous and convincing picture of Vespasian snoring
while his appalling predecessor sang. Nero’s
efforts in the circus—his insistence on being
handed the victor’s crown, no matter where he
finished in the race, and his combats with chained
and muzzled lions —would provide good comic
“business.” And these things would be true to
the life of the period.
* * *
The people in “ The Belle of Brittany ”
the musical piece which Australia first saw at the
Sydney Criterion on Saturday night—are repre-
sented by the programme as living in an 18th
century French village; as a matter of fact, they
do not belong anywhere in particular. The Mar-
quis of Tom Walls is simply an elderly,
aspirateless, Randwick stable hand, in fancy
dress. His allusions are uniformly modern
and local. Confronted by his fellow-aristo.,
Comte Victoire, he cries, “ Why ! I thought
’Arry Clay ’ad engaged you long ago.”
It is his custom to address the female members of
the indigenous noblesse as “Kid.” Victoire
differs in nothing but clothes from the Hughie
typo of London youth, originated a year or so ago
by George Grossmith, jun. The waggeries of
Poquelin the miller and his wife are essentially
British. A result is that such romance as the
piece aspires after falls flat, not to say dead. It
is impossible to be interested in any one character
in relation to another. Which is to say “ 'The
Belie of Brittany ” is even more like a vaudeville
show than most of its class.
The turns are all excellent in. their way.
Miss Winifred O’Connor is an alluring Babette,
with numerous chances to air her lovely voice.
Harold Thorley loves her in his own dashing,
though aloof fashion. The fact is Thorley
is so absorbed being debonair that he has
little tiniB fofr the ordinary manifestations of
passion. He has a song that suits his
style in “The Kingdom of a Woman’s Heart.”
The nearest thing the writer has struck to Walls’s
Marquis de St. Gautier is Thackeray’s Sir Pitt
Crawley. The sole difference between them is that
Thackeray’s creation had brains, while the Marquis
is frankly half-witted. But whether the aged repro-
bate is love-making or falling over logs or firing
his revolver at food which he dislikes, he is always
the funniest thing present. Miss Gilliam and
Charles Stone do a lot of good work together and
separately. And the minor characters glimmer
where they don’t shine. The scenery and dressing
are exquisite.
** * *
Hugh J. Ward has packed his traps and
gone. He said good-bye to a crowded audience in
the Palace on Saturday night, played his last
character part in Sydney, danced his scarecrow
dance, signalled for ice to keep his head from
splitting with the cheers, and for the fire-brigade
to be ready lest the warm words of the citizens’
farewells should set fire to the theatre. There are
few men in the profession who have hit Sydney
nearer the heart than Ward. He has given it a good
show every season he has been along ; like the gent,
who has just left the Criterion, across the road, lie’s
gotter plotter— “Always merry and bright ” ; and
lie has forgotten shop at sufficiently frequent inter-
vals to be a good citizen. This much and more,
David Storey, M.L. A., assured him, on behalf of
the other citizens, in one of those small social
speeches wherein David has sometimes been
charged with being an orator; and when the genial
politician pinned a gold watch and chain
on his victim’s bosom the house rose and
delivered itself of much noise. Then Ward
said his piece—said he was much obliged,
also he wished to return thanks; told
them he was greatly indebted to them ; also that
he was deeply grateful (loud cheers). Here-
abouts he began to get nervous, and undoubtedly
he would have rung the curtain down only
for the fact that David Storey’s bald hat-
rack was right in the line of descent. So
Ward apologised for his inability to orate, and
tried to win back to favor by reminding the audi-
' enqe that he could act better than he could make
a speech. Whereupon the audience made the
mistake that courtesy is prone to by yelling as
one man: “Not at all, Hughie; not at all.”
After that Grace Palotta, who presently will escort
herself to Vienna, said her good-bye; and Celia
Ghiloni, Maud Chetwynd and the girls and Wyke-
ham, Greigand the other boys bowed an impressive
farewell. Then all round the house, on stage, in
stalls, boxes, circle and galleries, hands were
joined, and the orchestra hurled “Old L. Syne”
into the midst of them once more. It was a great
send-off, and if Hugh J. Ward wasn’t as pleased
as he said he was afterwards, it must take a lot of
admiration to satisfy him. In hard goods he took
home a gold watch and chain, a gold medal, and an
illuminated address, and a necklet for Mrs. Ward;
but if he had had to lump home the good wishes
that went with them he’d have been crushed to
death.
** * *
“Miss Gibbs” keeps her place at the
Royal. She has been in the one situation for
six months. She even allowed herself to shift
with the J.C.W. family when it passed from Pitt-
street to Castlereagh-street ; and greater love
hath no maid than this. Even a nightly dose of
“ Yip-i-addy-i-ay ” does not cause her to give
notice. She is a model—a Pearl beyond price.
#- * * *
This (Thursday) is the last night of “ The
Whip” at Her Majesty’s; 75 times has the great
race been run, and as many times has the
train been wrecked, and with that record
to its credit—beating even Tait’s perform-
ance —J.C.W. is content. Next comes the
newest thing in spectacular thrills— “ Via
Wireless.” In place of train-smashing, the
J.C.W. engineers will turn their hand to ship-
wrecking, with a wireless installation as the chief
side-line.
** * *
A musical audience crowded Sydney Town
Hall to do honor to conductor Asprey. Mr.
Asprey wields the baton for St. Mary’s Cathedral
Choir and the Western Suburbs Orchestral
Union, and at one time conducted for J.C.W.
An octave of clergy occupied the carpet square
usually trodden by vice-regality. The first half
of the programme was devoted to choral and
orchestral selections from “ Faust,” by combined
choirs and orchestras, supplemented by leading
instrumentalists under Slapoffski, solos being
taken by Mrs. Slapoffski, Miss Muriel Barton,
Messrs. H. Neil, C. Rolfe and P. Stanley. Mrs.
Slapoffski was in tine dramatic form, especi-
ally in the Jewel Song; but her singing
partner falsettoed the top notes of “ All Hail
Thou Dwelling.” In the second half Slapoffski
and Asprey took turns with the baton, the latter
conducting his own composition, “Dawn,” a
dainty moreeau for strings. Miss Fanny Bauer
made her first public appearance since acquiring
the name of Hickey, and sang “Ah fors e lui.”
She should be heard oftener. Mr. Mowat Carter
soloed in a Romance of Svendsen’s, and Mrs. H.
L. Primrose and Mrs. A. Fawn helped things
along vocally. Southwell saw to the management,
and Mr. C. U. B. Gunnett did secretarial work
for the Executive Committee.
HUGH WARD
IN HIS
SCARE-CROW
DANCE,
AT THE
PALACE
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
Fasola, the Indian fakir and illusionist,
arrived at Sydney Tivoli last Saturday ; but there
was no live lion amongst his props—a fact for
which everyone felt grateful. The delayed hot
weather has now arrived with a rush, and it is em-
phatically not a time to share lodgings with a lion.
If the animal could promptly escape it would not
be so bad ; but you couldn’t rely on that after the
Melbourne experience. Fasola’s turn is a good
thing of its mechanical kind ; it is finely mounted
and the most impressive miracles are accomplished
by firing off a revolver. With a shotgun or a howit-
zer Fasola should be able to do something notable.
Cooper and Lait continue to rattle brightly
through their farce, “A Man of Spirit,” and
Alexander Prince is still squeezing “ Tannhauser ”
out of his concertina. Miss Odeyne Spark, Baby
Watson and the Pounds girls decorate the bill;
and Rousby’s Flashlight Scenes Around Paris—
including Bruce Smith’s sham volcano—provide a
heap of innocent merriment., Regardless of the
fact that the dog days have only just arrived,
Velanche’s Football Dogs are due to rush off the
bill on Wednesday, while this. Bulletin is flick-
ing through the presses and putting on its pink
bath-robe.,
-* * * *
The panto., at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne),
continues to score steadily, and the public confi-
dently anticipates the hoisting of the ' century at
an early date. The drolleries of Neil Kenyon are
unabated ; the beanstalk continues to bourgeon,
and the downfall of Giant Blunderbore to be com-
plete and awful. In short, the mammoth show is
doing as well as can be expected.
“ The Gay Grisette ” is preparing to flee
for ever. In a matter of 10 days “Lucky Durham ”
•—-Hall Caine’s old play—will supplant the
Musical Sparklet,’’ and the howl of the injured
hero, also the moan of his loved one, will sound
once more in Melb. Theatre Royal.'
** * *
“My Mate,” the Bilanderson blood-play
at Melbourne King’s, is staggering through gun-
practice and limelight to its finish. On March 4
Max Maxwell and Beatrice Holloway erupt in a
costume play hight “Revenge.”
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House Julian Rose
is presenting Levinsky to Victorian audiences for
the last time ; but the Six American Dancers will
remain on deck for several weeks yet. On Satur-
day Wild, Willie and West transpired. Habited as
British navvies they rain kicks, blows and bricks on
one another, and the populace is convulsed. They
will make a sure appeal to those who love the
cataclysmic brand of wit ; for they commit every
conceivable violenoe on one another, short of
assassination. Frank Harwood continues to be a
monument of self-satisfaction in ornate clothes,
and Yetta paces the slack-wire in her own
matchless style.
"THE BELLE OF BRITTANY," AT THE
SYDNEY GRI.
The Marquis (Tom Walls) secures a chef (Charlie
Stone) for His Chateau.
At Melbourne Guild Hall, this week
(March 1), there is the first “ Combined Exhi-
bition of Paintings,” from which a “ permanent
market for Australian Art ” is expected to de-
velop. The exhibitors, who have engaged all the
available screen space for this first show, are only
a percentage of the Melbourne artists who will be
watching the success of the venture. “Art” is
keenly anxious for a permanent market, where
bargain-hunters will go the rounds, and supply
and demand may be equally guided. The Mel-
bourne output of unsaleable pictures has for
years past been enormous, and these periodical
Guild Hall shows should teach artists what not to
paint, whilst they may also instruct the uninfprmed
citizen what to buy. A good many people would
buy a new picture now and then, instead of some-
thing else, “ for the house,” but for their fear that
it isn’t worth the money. Haunted by which
horrible, dread they invest the spare coin in a new
sideboard or go and lose it at the races.
At West’s Building, Melbourne, the pre-
sent feature of interest is the Beauty Competi-
tion. Twenty damsels or so have been pictured
in order that the public may vote for their chosen
divinities ; and the referendum is now proceed-
ing. Meanwhile, if West’s beauties fail to attract
the eye—as perhaps they may, for there is no
Helen of Troy among them —his orchestra suc-
ceeds in charming the ear. These nights the band
is giving the Introduction to the third act of
“ Lohengrin ” admirably.
** * *
At 'the Adelaide Royal, Max Maxwell is
booming with melodrama. Writer admits to ex-
pecting nothing from “ The Spider and the Fly,”
and to being correspondingly and pleasantly sur-
prised. The cotnic relief is comic; the she-villain
has an engaging though deadly smile; the he-
villain does not make fatuous remarks just to
allow people to score off him, and the descending
roof squashes its victim flat with the apparent
thoroughness of a Carl Hertz illusion. Bland
Holt’s success, “ Woman and Wine,” holds the
boards at present. The Tivoli has a long and
strong bill, and the Dandies had a tremendous
farewell at the Exhibition, which is wanted for
the Show. West’s beauty-competition is a big
popular success. But the range of choice seems
to have been strangely limited. It would be hard
to get into a tramcar without seeing one or two
girls as pretty as, say, half of those starred in this
competition. Sunday evening shows are opening


wr
ir>. m
5'6
for Cash
I SACSUIT
jj
11AIL0R jXOSTUMEHAKU l_
BMR!flfilffiiHttitlH!flHi.l^RHflB!!fnBlllliffMiiM^Hftofltibfiffff^
»
LOOK YOUNG
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.)
Mexican Walnut Stain
Is the only Permanent and really
satisfactory One Solution Hair Stain.
None Genuine without Signature-ALFRED ARDLEY.
ALL CHEMISTS.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS.
much as thev wish for the moment. It appears
that, while Premier and Chief Secretary say they
may not, Denny (Attorney-General) advises pro-
fessionally that they may ; and the outcome may
he more political than theatrical, to paraphrase
Sydney’s old friend Habigail.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Adelaide gets a new theatre this week—The King’s,
away in the central, but not hitherto fashionable, dis-
trict bordering- on Victoria Square, and adjoining the
railway station where you climb into the Glenelg trains.
This acquisition only puts Adelaide where it. was before
the Academy of Music was burnt down, nearly 25 years
ago. The Royal is still where it was, and Garner’s
Rooms are now called the Tivoli. There is no other
theatre, though picture-houses have sprung up and mul-
tiplied. The Empire is modern, but ’verted to films after
a year or two of variety. Of the two skating-rinks, one is
now West’s Pictures, and the other is “up against” an
odd rival. The City Council has laid down Rundle and
Hindley streets—which are all one street, cut into two
by King William-street—with the finest Val de Travers ;
and at early morning and all the evening rinking
flourishes there. A straight run of a mile, with nothing
to pay, just suits the public. To return to the King’s, it
proves to be unexpectedly small; the big house that will
take the spectacular pieces for which the Royal itself is
small is still away in the future. Up to date, and well
appointed in every respect, it opens with the Dandies, an
approved summer success in the Exhibition grounds.
The wisdom of this policy remains to be proved. The old
prices were “ two and one” the new are “ three, two and
one.” Front-seaters may pot like paying half as much
again, and there is a difference between a shilling’s
worth of Garden and a bob’s worth of Gallery.
“Star”: The headlong pace in theatre-building con-
tinues in and around Melbourne city. A new living-
picture gallery, capable of holding as large a mass as any
city showroom, is on the eve of completion at St. Kilda.
Most of the suburbs are busy running ’em up. Bourke-
street waxworks has been converted into a permanent,
constant-current picture exhibition. The Colonial
Theatre, Bourke-street, opens shortly. Tafts’ Collins-
street hall gets going ; and a Bourke-street lot has been
secured for a third vaude-villa of large proportions, as a
feverish rival to the Op. House. The time seems immi-
nent when business and private Melbourne will be under-
ground, the surface being occupied by theatres, music
halls, concert rooms and picture mills. Then, in all pro-
bability, a revival will come along and convert all the
show places into gospel shops.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : Mr. J. F. Hogan is in error
over that amateur performance by members of the Vic-
torian Legislature in 1861 (B. 23/2/’ll). This writer was
present at it. It took place in the Theatre Roya], and
was in aid of the Shakspeare Scholarship Fund, then
being engineered by the late G. W. Rusden, Clerk of the
Parliaments. The play was “ The Merchant of Venice.”
Mark Last King (Morton King of old) was Shyloclt ;
George Ooppin, Lancelot Gobbo ; Vincent Pyke (who sub-
sequently went to Maoriland), Antonio ; John Donald (of
Beechworth), Bassanio ; Gratiano, Howard, of Sandhurst;
The Duke, Peter Lalor; and Tom Carpenter, of Man-
durang, was old Gobbo. The others have passed from my
memory. Mrs. Heir was Portia, and Fanny Morgan
Nenssa. A prologue, written by G. W. Rusden, was
spoken by J. D. Wood, now of Tasmania. An epilogue,
written by Vincent Pyke, was spoken by that gentleman!
Various dailies, in obituarising J. B. Fitts of Sydney,
credit him with having been “ one of the first, if not the
first actually, to introduce biograph pictures into Aus-
tralia.” But long before Fitts and Snazelle showed film
pictures of the Boer War at Sydney Town Hall/the new
invention had been introduced into the regular Rickards
entertainment in Melbourne, Sydney and elsewhere. A
picture of people and vehicles crossing London Bridge in
the morning was the first notable illustration of biograph
possibilities that Rickards staged. The flicker was dis-
tressing to the eyes ; but even that crude picture was an
amazing novelty at the time.
“0.K.” : Variety artists, even more than farcical come-
dians, are addicted to mimicry. They “pinch” one
another’s “business,” copy one another’s make-up, imi-
tate mannerisms, and generally reduce themselves’to a
compound of stolen personalities. They act on the prin-
ciple that one good “ turn ” deserves another exactly like
it, or as nearly like it as they can make it. Barring a
small minority of originators and inventors, who are
ingeniously clever or instinctively humorous, the people
imported by Rickards are mimics’; but occasionally their
turn is new—to this country, anyhow ; whereupon our
strictly local talent proceeds to copy it. Thus far
Australian alertness in the matter of music-hall
business has been confined to , mimicry. Fannv
Powers speaks for a host of compatriots when
she repeats the old, old formula: “Ladies and
gentlemen, I will endeavor to give you a few imitations
of artists I have seen and heard”; and Australia is still
waiting for the smart local performer, of any sort, who
will express ‘by word or dumb deed a desire to do some-
thing fresh. The aptitude for theatrical work is strong,
but the spirit of adventurei is weak in Australia’s stage-
struck youth. All of this is preliminary to a mild appre-
ciation of the Kavanagh Boys, who juggle with clubs,
tennis-racquets, and things under Rickards’s management.
The young: Kavanagh brothers are neat and slick per-
formers, with a touch of class-distinction in their style.
They were educated at St. Pat’s College, Melbourne, and
the eldest boy, who is now only 23, was intended for the
Law before he shocked the' family by studying with
his brother for the music-hall. They are con-
nected with the League of the Cross, through then-
grandfather, who is the s-cretarv thereof ; so their fall
from grace seemed very deplorable until they proved
themselves a self-supporting pair, and accomplished a
successful tour through “ the East.” Now these Kavanagh
Boys appear to have all the equipment for an interesting
turn, save an inventive turn of mind. If they possess
the creative faculty they are not revealing it at present.
Everything they do and their way of doing it is a remin-
iscence of previous people’s skill or buffoonery. They
don’t attempt any dialogue, which would be an innova-
tion—at least, in their class of performance. Their
de*t models said nothing, probably because they were
uneducated men, therefore the Kavanagh Boys hold
their tongues all the time. As silent, unconfessed
mimics they would he wearisome to experienced theatre-
goers if they were less expert and neat in all respects.
Their youthfulness pleads for them. But when are they
going to assert their nationality by doing something new?
We are beginning to get some typical Australian char-
acter acting- in Andersonian melodrama; but the Original
Australian Variety Artist has yet to be discovered. Our
white natives-born have noteven thoughtof juggling with
boomerangs or bananas.
Ethel Irving, it seems, is to cut a social dash, on Mglha
lines, when she comes to Australia some six months
hence. Probably she will open the season in Melbourne,
and pitch her headquarters at Toorak with a “ retinue of
servants ”in attendance. She can afford to do things
expensively, whatever happens at the theatre pay-boxes.
Fortune was kind to Ethel Irving off the stage ere she
became famous on it, and, though the amount of her
private income may be exaggerated, she undoubtedly
acts on velvet.
“ F. H.” : Spencer’s people claim that their “ Ten Nights
in a Bar-room —a picture-horror which is mostly pink ele-
phants and sudden death —“ has done more good in the
caiise of temperance reform than all the platform lectures
and legislation put together.” So far, there has not been
so much as a bleat of protest from Jud and the rest of
the professional Beer-scotchers. It will be a sore day for
Wowsers when The Bulletin’s Religious Editor is called
on, in default of a contest, to hand the Championship
Drink Suppression belt to an Accursed Theatrical Pro-
prietary.
“ THE GAY GRISRTTE," AT
Tom Graves as
Colond Pom
Pom.
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Nellie Cozens
as
Princess Lulu.
Bert Levy, the Australian black-and-white artist who
has boomed mightily “ abroad,” to an American paper :—-
“The Australian girl is the most beautiful in the world.
If she goes on the stage she must, except in rare instances,
remain in the chorus, whilst most of the principal girls
come from London branded ! ‘■From the Gaiety Theatre,’
Fourth-rate American and English actors can get a mag-
nificent welcome in Australian cities, while the local pro-
duct just ‘fills in’—that’s all. With one or two excep-
tions the real American stars have not been to Australia,
whilst the alleged American stars who were taken to
Australian hearts have never been seen on Broadway.
J. O. Williamson, the father of the Australian profession,
whom I had the pleasure of entertaining in New York
recently, was looking for a principal boy for pantomime.
A name was suggested. ‘We have better than she at home,’
remarked Mrs. Williamson. ‘Yes, I know',’ continued
J.C.W. ; ‘but they won’t have the local product’; nor
could he explain the reason. Some day the theatregoers
of the antipodes will remember poor little Violet Varley
and Flora Graupner, and again insist upon the local pro-
duct. Pardon me dragging in a story about myself to
illustrate the point. In a certain American city my
name was at the head of the bill on the electric sign. An
Australian gentleman, who was the tin god of his little
one-horse suburb out home, was at the theatre, and after
the performance called at the stage door. While waiting
to see me he regaled the stage-doorkeeper with the in-
formation that he knew me when I used to smoke cheap
cigarettes in Australia. He really was astonished at my
success with my audience ; but he only remembered the
cheap cigarettes.” Bert Levy’s long yarn makes no
mention of his having been engaged for an Australian
tour; but in talking of Rickards and his managers, he
says: “lam looking forward with pleasure to meet my
old friends again. In Australia all railway fares are paid
by Mr. Rickards, and he also sees to the carting of bag-
gage to and from the theatre. There are no Sunday per-
formances, and only two matindes a week. Rickards has
never been known to go back on a contract.”
“ Not-at-All De Ray’s play “Judas,” which was
specially constructed for Sarah Bernhardt, appeared at
the New York Globe on a recent date. De Ray disagrees
with the biblical version of Judas, and Bernhardt’s ren-
dering makes him even more romantic. However, the
piece is too sombre, and though the N’York papers
were exceedingly sympathetic, it is doubtful w-hether
“Judas” will become a popular classic.
Raimund Pechotsch, violinist, is going to settle at
Auckland (M.L.) and teach its youth how to fiddle so as
to paralyse the youth of Wellington, Christchurch and
Dunedin. Pechotsch knows most things about the box
with the catgut voice, as Kowalski, whose soloist he was
through Australasia, would guarantee; and if other
references were required they could be obtained from
Foli and Belle Cole, with whom he toured, and Oscar
Asche, of whose orchestra he was leader.
“ S.T.S.” : Beerbohm Tree has submitted his idea for
solving the unpaid rehearsal trouble. The English actor,
unlike the Australian, who is nearly always at work on a
proved success, spends much of his time gambling on the
future. That is, he works for weeks, without salary, on
a play which, as often as not, runs for only two or three
weeks before being withdrawn. Tree’s idea is that
rehearsal-time shall be paid for at 25 per cent, of full
salary, this to apply only to those who receive less than
£5 a week. So the small man would get (say) £1 a week
at the outside, and the other man nothing at all! If
Tree doesn’t like a noise, he must be sorry by this time
that he spoke ; for the howl the “ solution ” has produced
is tremendous.
“ Bloggs ” : I protest against the music-hall person who
relies for the retention of his or her job on forcing the
gallery to sing choruses. At Sydney Tivoli, the other
night, a young man rendered a banal verse, after which,
gazing aloft, he sang or howled a chorus. As the response
was unsatisfactory, he repeated the offence, beating time
imploringly with his hat. Yet a third time did he start
the thing ; but after a few bars, dropped his voice and by
ail the resources of dumb-show besought the gods to
undertake his job for him. The orchestra played the
infernal thing twice while he walked round to show his
clothes. Then another verse ; and by the time he left,
the foolish affair had been repeated . some dozen
times, and the folks aloft hadn’t .nearly got the
hang of it. If music-hall pros. insisistoU teaching-gallery
frequenters their songs, it strikes me as a fairer t hing
that they should do it out of business hours. Under the
existing arrangement portion of one’s time in a hall
resembles half an hour in the establishment devoted to
the musical education of the tone-deaf.
The best idea in cinematograph Beauty Competition
was struck by Hoyt’s, of Melbourne. The candidates
bad to be kiddies under 12 .years of
age, and tbe child who scored the
most votes and won 15 guineas for
the parents, was a 4£-year-old girl.
All sorts and social conditions were
represented in the large field of
youngsters who went to the post for
the Hoyt Stakes. The “ under- 12”
clause attracted juveniles whose
parents wouldn’t have dreamed of
allowing elder sisters of the candi-
dates to enter for a beauty compe-
tition. Rules of snobbery are relaxed
considerably as regards the age of
innocence, and from any point of
view there is a wide distinction be-
tween the proud parental display of
a pretty child ; and the self-assertion of loveli-
ness by a young woman. The final act of Hoyt’s
show was a huge success. Six prize-winners
were advertised to appear in person, and each
youngster in turn stood on a pedestal in a cur-
tained enclosure, and was “produced” with
limelight effects. Thus placed in the centre of
the broad stage, the nippers looked like dolls,
and, in a showman way of speaking, they
brought the house down with their artless
smiles. As a matter of fact, they were pretty
and bright. Photographs of full-grown citizens
are apt to be absurdly misleading ; but in its
pictures of the half-grown ones the camera
had been truthful enough.
The “grand old woman” of the American stage, Mrs.
Annie Yeamans, has just celebrated her 75th birthday.
She is a member of the Echo Co., which was playing at
Buffalo in December ; and after the curtain on Saturday
night, December 17, the co. assembled on the stage, and
presented her with a bouquet and 75 crisp one-dollar
bills—one for each year. Mrs. Yeamans has been on the
stage since she was 10 years old. She was born on the
Isle of Man in 1835, and began her professional stage
career with a circus in N. S. Wales.
“Dux”: Wanganui (M.L.) is having no luck lately.
Its sculling champion, Webb, js “busted,” and at the
M.L. Brass Band Contest, which kept Palmerston North
up late o’ nights recently, its champion noise-raisers,
dropped to last in a field of five. The smoke of the bush
fires, raging in those parts at present, is nothing to the
gloom which has settled over Webbtown.
With the wisdom of woman or the serpent, those who
are running the Darling Point stall at the ffite in aid of
Prince Alfred Hospital Nurses’Home have arranged “The
Bachelor’s Reverie” as the big-type item in a St. James’s
Hall concert (March 8). A dozen of Sydney’s beauties
will be in the dream ; and you can book places at Paling’s.
“Snell”: How like each other these celebrated Eng-
lish comedians are ! Here’s Tom Graves, shipped to the
order of Clarke and Meynell, the dead ring for half a
score of other popular leading comedians who have come
and gone. Clarke and Meynell’s previous King Comic,
he who appeared in “ The Gay Gordons,” bore so striking
a resemblance to the present Chief Jester that they
might be giddy twins. But, then, both have so strong a
likeness to the very dry humorist who was the absurd
diplomatist in “ The Merry Widow ” that triplets are sug-
gested, till thoughts of the small mechanical frivol in
“Miss Gibbs” makes a quad, necessary. Other come-
dians who might be cited swell the bunch, so that the
idea of a family connection has to be banished. How do
they come to look and act and amble and gabble in
precisely the same way ? Is it a common misfortune, or
are they made to sample in Brummagem factories?
“ Floater ” : Melbourne is getting an education in the
mysteries of female apparel. In the local panto. Dame
Kenyon has an array of washing hanging like Academy
pictures on the line. In the centre of the exhibit is an
article of clothing without which no lady would be com-
plete. No one, however, notices the nature of the gar-
ment until Kenyon waggishly exposes its shape. There-
upon merriment shakes the house. In “My Mate,” the:
Anderson drama, there is a similar attempt to enliven the
crowd. Bert Bailey introduces a brown portmanteau
containing material for a mot. “What’s in there?”
demands a curious policeman, familiarly pointing to the
bag “What every policeman is always making,” says
Bailey, and produces a pair of bloomers. Shrieks, of
course.
Pett Ridge, proposing the toast of “ The Ladies ” at the
Playgoers’ Club, London, at Christmas, remarked hand-
somely that the lady novelist is “right to the front in
her descriptions of contemporary behavior.” Then he
added gently—“and misbehavior.”
“R.P.”: Henri Bernstein’s “ Apres Moi,” at the
Comedie Fran?aise last week, seems to have brought an
unexpected deluge of cat calls, fish horns, free fights and
anti-Semitic riots. For a long time Bernstein had
Parisian playgoers by the wool. He gave them thrills
every time ; the last one always better than its prede-
cessor. This, too, in a time when Paris has been better
supplied with dramatists than it had been for half a cen-
tury—the period of Rostand, Alfred Capus, Brieux, Lave-
dan, Lemaitre, Hervieu, Octave Mirbeau,etc. In mastery of
stagecraft Bernstein is the daddy of the lot, and superior
to Sardou. No literature gets into his lines ; his charac-
ters are puppets ; but in each of his plays he works up
to a thrilling situation with the precision of clockwork.
The crisis in “ La Rafale ” is one that appealed to Paris.
The lover, who never knew that his mistress had sold
herself to save him, shoots himself, and she is left alone
with her useless shame and her loss. The subject would
not suit English audiences; but “ The Thief ” and
“Samson” were transplanted with success. We have
had “The Thief ” in Australia ; it is said that “Samson ”
is finer; but none of his plays has been so successful as
“ApresMoi ” in giving Paris a new sensation.
One of the touching incidents of the Mel-
bourne iron-trade strike last week was the
announcement that a Footscray hotelkeeper had
promised to contribute £1 a week to the fund
whilst the strike lasted. Pubkeepers, as friends
of the working-man, are hardly less beautiful in
theory than Labor-champion John Wren, for-
merly of the Collingwood tote and now of the
pony racecourses. When the V.R.C. stewards
asked John to explain why he regarded his lawless
tote as a blessing to the working-man, he said,
“ Because I give him hope.” Wren took a good
deal of the toiler’s income on a yearly average,
and gave him eternal hope in return. Which is
what the hotelkeeper does. He gives the toiler
a long glass of illusion—and takes threepence for
it every time.
Adelaide has had a small case in which
the Unwritten Law had a say. According to the
tale of Knight, the shooter—and there was nobody
else to tell any tale at all—Baldwin and Mrs.
Knight made a bolt from Maoriland for S. A. He fol-
lowed, on receipt of a letter from her begging to
reclaimed, and consulted the Adelaide police, who-
could not help him. Then, sis Baldwin was “a.
dangerous man, who was supposed to be Mace,,
who had killed one Huxley in a prize fight in
Sydney,” he took a revolver and sought them out.
When he found them he fired three shots, and
Baldwin fired two.” Nobody was hurt, but the
police called it “attempted murder.” At the
trial they reported that the other pair had mean-
while sold out and cleared away again. Knight
wanted to read the Court his wife’s letter; but
this is horribly contrary to law, so he was allowed
to “state the contents of it from memory a fine
distinction. He says that she wrote : “ Don’t let
me go .to the dogs. If you can’t come over and
save me, let me know, and I will do away with
myself.” After which the jury promptly said,
Not Guilty.
McCutcheon, M.L.A., told his Melbourne
suburban constituents the other night, prior tc
quitting for the Coronation, that he left them it
the full confidence that they would vote “No”'
to the Referenda. And he warned them—
I could not sit in a State Parliament which was subject-
to the orders of the Commonwealth Parliament, passing;
whatever measures it was asked to pass and finding what-
ever money it was asked to find, taking the responsibility
without having the initiative.
McCutcheon has weird ideas about the future of
the State Parliaments ; on the same grounds he
might refuse to sit in a municipal council, because-/
it is given merely such powers as the State House
chooses to give it. But that ddesn’t matter. Mc-
Cutcheon’s decision settles it. If to save Austra-
lia it is necessary to lose McCutcheon—well r
McCutcheon must be considered first.
A DRY UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Fluffy,” we called him,
New parts appalled him,
Often he dried up and stuck in a speech ;
Mummed like a good ’un,
Not at all “ wooden,”
But on first nights, as a “ Buffer,” a peach !
Kept prompters busy.
“ Ain’t perfect, is he ? ”
They would remark. “ Damn it—wants ev’ry word ! ”
Lots chucked the job up,
New ones would bob up—
That’s how one night the disaster occurred,
I was the newest
Prompter and truest
Amateur ever that took on “ the book ” ;
Awkward for “ Fluffy ” !
That mummer—huffy—
Muttered : “It seems now I’m on my own hook !”
That proved a true bill.
First night of new' bill,
“ Fluffy,” as usual, drying up dead,
Glared and said : “ Word, sir !
Prompt me—you heard, sir! ”
“ Which word d’ye want, sir l ” I nervously said.
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
DE VERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Neglected by the managers
Stood Fitz McGee Thirdact Ete Vere.
I hate imbibing with the flies,
So shouted him a pint of beer.
, , . , ,
He browsed upon the counter-lunch,
And held bis glass with loving span
As I requested him to name
The greatest live tragedian.
He threw a mighty attitude,
And answered me without demur :
“ Gad ! I could name that actor-r-r, but
My modesty forbids it, sir-r-r!!! ”
N s w
RIVERINA.
THE RESPITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I say to-night,” saidßro. Wheeler, “ that we are not
here to destroy the Roman Catholic Church — so long as
it will stick to the teaching of its own doctrine and re-
ligious beliefs." —S. M. Hkrald.
A sigh of gratitude impacts
The atmosphere of Rome ;
The Pope takes nourishment once more,
Within his mighty home ;
His priests walk unperturbed beneath
Saint Peter’s classic dome.
The glad news speeds through Austria,
And Italy and Spain ;
Two-thirds of the Americas
Proceed to breathe again ;
Some twenty million Frenchmen lose
Their look of chronic pain.
Wherever Irish people dwell,
From Cork to Timbuctoo,
Loud shouts of happiness arise.
The Irishman’s “ Hurroo ’’ 1
Is heard as far afield as Bourke
And Yass and Jamberoo.
“ But why,” I hear you query, “ should
Such frantic gladness flit
The world around? What causes joy
In all these lands to sit,
A wholly uninvited guest?
What is the strength of it i ”
Stupent, I cry, “ Hast never come
’Neath Brother Wheeler’s spell?
Have you not heard that splendid man
Sound Romanism’s knell,
And in the chastest language give
The Scarlet Wuinmuu H—11?
“ You’ve not? Then know that Wheeler’s war
Against the Holy See
Has for the moment ceased. It’s safe.
He will not crush it. He
Proposes—for a while at least—
To spare the Papacy.”
Envoi.
The small suburban Wowser lurks
Within his stucco home ;
His futile face is seared with thought,
His eyes in frenzy roam ;
What time he blushlessly decides
To spare the Church of Rome !
N.S.W.
HENRI SINGEMOINE.


HEW AUTUMN STYLES
EXHIBITION at DAVID JONES, LTD., WILL OPEN ON MARCH 6.
AN Exhibition of New and Choice Autumn and Winter Goods will be held in every
Department of our House from March 6. Everything is fresh and new—the
very latest styles—mostly importations from the World’s Leading Fashion Centres
and most Reliable Manufacturers. All who. possibly can are invited to pay us a visit
during the Exhibition. It is our earnest wish'that you should feel at perfect ease to
walk through the Showrooms and under no obligation to buy.
TO COUNTRY RESIDENTS
We are always pleased to send patterns, prices and particulars of our new Autumn
Goods, and our Autumn Catalogues when published. Remember, in ordering from us
you buy at exactly City Prices, for
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all Goods except Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchen and Hardware to any part of the
Commonwealth. Only on Toys when ordered with other goods.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G. P. 0.»
SYDNEY.
m
1W »
HARRINGTONS’
CAMERAS.
The Best Value selected from the World’s
Leading Makers.
THE ENSIGN FOLDING DAVUCHT
LOADING CAMERAS, BRITISH made.
Portability and Economy are Two Points
to Recommend Them. PRICES—
2JB POCKET ENSIGN, takes pictures x3J .. 25/-
2£ FOLDING ENSIGN, takes pictures 2J x4J .. 37/6
3J FOLDING ENSIGN, takes pictures 4i x3* .. 37/6
3JA FOLDING ENSIGN, Postcard 42/-
Send for Illustrated Catalogue. Over 400 Pages.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
Australasia’s Leading Photographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, near G.P.0.;
and at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
GETTING A TOW HOME.
“ Karee ” : “ E.S.C.” (B. IG/2/’ll) is sur-
ssurprised at De Nouvelle representing bayonets
stuck on “ sideways.” The Chassepot rifle, used
in the ’7o’s in the French army, had a “side”
bayonet; and the bayonet used on the first model
of the Lebel standard rifle (now the standard
French army carbine) is fixed on the right side.
The utter indifference of the ocean-beach
shark to the surfer has become almost insulting.
Formerly, the man who went out into deep water
got a thrill from the reflection that the sharks
wanted him badly, and were only kept at a
distance by his remarkable activity. It made
a lot of men who knew they were held
pretty cheap ashore feel very valuable afloat.
But the fallacy has been punctured so often, of
late, by the people who ought to know, that the
showy surfer’s vanity is wounded; and hardly
anyone holds his breath now and prophesies red
tragedy when a small round knob is seen rising
and falling on the heaving green carpet of the sea
beyond the white confusion of the breakers. A
scornful Manly (N.S.W.) fisherman told a re-
porter last week how he watched, without un-
easiness, a 16-stone bather floating like a Lord
Mayor’s banquet within easy distance of a
big shark, and how he afterwards easily captured
the brute (that is to say, the shark) by heaving in
a hook baited with a couple of pounds of dead
fish. The marine cynic then brutally observed
that the shark doesn’t really like human flesh,
and would as soon eat a man as the reporter
would a Chinaman. Nevertheless, the grim
struggle of Katola, the sole survivor of the Glen-
bank wreck, near Broome (W.A.), who had to re-
peatedly knife the shark that swam after him,
shows that the rover who hasn’t the run of a
crowded coastline is not such an epicure, or doesn’t
know as much as the Manly variety. Certainly,
Katola’s pursuer may have been merely curious ;
but then, again, perhaps he was only obeying the
natural inpulse of his species to swallow every-
thing—like the “Liberal” voter or Frank Bullen’s
shark, which gulped down a bag of cinders.
* * * *
The wife of aviator Hammond rather gave
the show away when she artlessly remarked to a
Melbourne reporter: “Once you get used to it,
flying is the most delightful pastime.” Profes-
sional aviators are working very hard to persuade
themselves and the other people that motoring
through space is already on the way to proving as
serviceable to the world-political, commercial
and social—as motoring on terra firma. They re-
ject the “ pastime ” label with scorn. So far as
Hammond’s flights are concerned, Melbourne’s
first comment was that the'' flier had to
get up pretty early in the morning to do
it. He rose with the lark, so to speak,
but, unlike the bird of poetic passage,
he practically went to roost when the break-
fast bell rang. True, he flew from Mel-
bourne to Geelong, and the journey took less time
than if he had gone by train or motor-car ; but
the fact that he waited for the next early morning
before flying the return trip was strong evidence
against the biplane as a rival to the common or
high-road motor-bike. Nobody in need of im-
mediate removal to another town on a matter of
urgent business would dream of waiting for a
chance to fly there, even though he had an aero-
plane handy. Consequently, air-motoring is a
“ pastime” at present, as compared with ground-
motoring, which is independent of wind, weather
or time-o’-day.
* * * *
The retirement of Inspector R. J. Gillies
from the Maoriland police, after 36 years’ service.
recalls the arrest of a native named
Winiata who, in 1876, was wanted
for the murder of a station cadet in
the Auckland district. Winiata
bolted into the King Country; where
old Tawhiao and his gang took shelter
after the last defeats in the Wajkato
war, and the white man’s law stopped
short. For six years the murderer
hung out there in safety, until Gillies
and another police-officer trapped
him by the aid of a half-caste
named Barlow. This justifiable
Judas went to Winiata with Govern-
ment money and purchased some
f stock, making it part of the bargain
' that Winiata was to help convoy the
animals to Barlow’s place. Once
there, he was to be drugged while
Barlow’s daughter rode to tell Gillies
to hustle on with the irons. But
the girl was thrown from her horse,
and the message never reached the.
police ; so Barlow either had to finish
the job himself or let his man and
the prospective 30 pieces of silver go.
He successfully doped his guest, and,
with the assistance of his wife, roped
him on to a pack-horse, carted
him 20 miles to the lockup at
Te Awatnutu, and dumped him
at Gillies’s door. Gillies got pro-
motion, Barlow got £7OO and a
farm, and Winiata got what was
coming to him. He never asked for
anything more. The throwing of
Winiata to the police officers like a
dead pig recalls another incident,
which so far hasn’t been told, of the
bad old days in Maoriland when the
whites and the natives exchanged
greetings with a bullet or a tomahawk.
A price had been placed on Maori
heads, and a well-known scout, who
isn’t dead yet, had been out collecting
a few. One morning he walked
into the headquarters of a British force, and,
turning .into the officers’ mess tent at breakfast
time, without ceremony emptied a sack on the
table. A horrible cargo rolled out, each head
bearing undeniable proof of the casual remark of
the scout, that “every one of them was
fresh ! ”
POOR, BUT TOO HONEST.
“ Ah! I can't get in there. I never stole any-
think." (Moral: Go and do likewise.)
The record of horrors will have to be
ploughed a long way back before one meets such
an awful death as that of the two child vic-
tims of a recent fire at Ponsonby-road, Auckland
(M.L.). The mites, a boy and a girl, were not
burnt to death, but were slowly roasted on a
white-hot iron verandah—“practically frizzled
alive,” as the doctor said—like steak on a grid-
iron. At the inquest a medical witness said :
In the case of the boy, it would appear that he fell on
his back, and then rolled in agony on to his left side. With
the intense heat, the bodies would take 20 minutes to
half an hour to roast as they did.
The father of the children, who was lying on the
same verandah, burnt so dreadfully that he could
not move, though not so mercifully as to lose
consciousness, complained that the fire brigade
might have been on,, the spot 20min. sooner that
it was, and that, although there were plenty of
people in the street, no attempt was made to help
the agonised souls on that sizzling frying-pan.
He said;—
By this time the flames from the shop window under-
neath had made the iron so hot that it was already
buckling, and at every step I felt the flesh leaving my
feet, until my legs gave way, and I fell. I rolled off the
hottest portion of the roof, and lay there utterly help-
less. The children were only a few yards from me. I
tried again and again to reach them, and their piteous
shrieks maddened me. The street was full of people, and
it seemed to me that others were on the long terrace of
verandah roofs which runs right along, but no help came.
The press association message through Maoriland
declared :
The doctors testify that the bodies were roasting
nearly half an hour, and during the period nothing was
done beybnd the frenzied efforts of the father and uncle,
both of whom were barefooted and badly burned, to
rescue the children before they died, or remove the
bodies when they were dead.
There can be only one defence to such a eharge—•
that it is not the truth.
* * * *
The Victorian divorce law was presented
in a humorous aspect by J ustice Hood last week,
when a Melbourne gardener applied for a decree
nisi against his wife on the ground of desertion.
The woman left his house 10 years ago, taking all
her personal belongings with her. Previously she
had refused to take £l2 which he offered her for
housekeeping, and subsequently she wrote to say
she would never return to him. Her sister swore
that the fickle matron had declared her intention
to clear out, but was persuaded by the sister to
stay on for another year. When she cleared she
went to Westralia to houselceep for another man.
His Honor, having heard this simple statement of
apparent facts, didn’t question its truthfulness,
but remarked that “ a delay of 10 years ought to
be fatal to a suit for divorce on the ground of
desertion.” So the longer and more emphatic the
desertion, the less you are entitled to consider
yourself deserted, in the eyes of the Law, appa-
rently.
“Belaying Pin”:
Officers in the Aus-
tralian coastal trade
suffer disabilities be-
sidesthose mentioned
in The Bulletin
(16/2/11). Since the
award in the Federal
Arbitration Court,
the Owners’ Federa-
tion has taken ad-
vantage of every
loophole to escape
overtime, and some
of the methods used
are the esserfce of
meanness. Thus, a
vessel may arrive in
any port after an
officer has completed
hiseight hours on the
bridge; yet that time
is not counted, and
lie is liable to another
eight hours in the
port, providing it is
not his “ home port,”
making 1G hours’ duty
in 24, and for the extra
eight hours he gets no
payment whatever. lam
quite certain Justice
Higgins did not intend
the award to be inter-
preted that way. Many
vessels do not carry a
boatswain, so the Chief
officer is held responsible
for the genera] appear-
ance of (tie ship, the
efficiency of cargo gear,
etc. A vessel on arrival
in port must have all
gear ready, and, where
there is no boatswain,
this necessitates the chief’s
personal supervision; so
that many times a chief
officer takes his four hours on the bridge, from 4 to
8 a.m., then stays up practically all day supervising
work, and, on arrival in port—sayat 7 p.ni.—isstill
liable for duty until midnight without payment
for overtime. As to “home ports,” the sub-
ject of the paragraph before-mentioned, I will
go further and ask why should the cos. be
allowed to dictate where a man’s home port shall
be? Is it right that a man should be assigned
Albany when the vessel is only two or three
hours there, whereas she is three days (say) in
Sydney ? No man is going to shift his home to
Albany or Port Pirie from Sydney or Melbourne
just because the owner allots him Albany or Port
Pirie as a home port. So he may come in and go
out of his real home port without seeing his wife
and kiddies. I fully expect to see mine for one
evening every four months or so, and that’s no
way to encourage Australians to either take up
the seafaring profession or stick to it after it has
been taken up.
NOT TAKING ANY.
CUSTOMER: “Hi , waiter! I found this piece of
wood in the sausage.”
WAITER: “ Yessir hut I'm sure — er"
CUSTOMER: “Look here. I don’t mind eating a
bit of the dog. but I'm hanged if I'm going
to tackle the kennel.”
The artists of Melbourne, in meeting as-
sembled, have specifically Condemned the incon-
gruous site selected by the city councillors for the
£7OOO King Edward memorial statue. That, of
course, will make no difference. The portly, con-
scientious alderman, who manufactures boots or
fabricates bloated bolognas, would rage like the
heathen in his blindness if a set of mere artists
arose to tell him how boots should be built, or to
dictate the color of the skins into which he loads
his pig meat; but he has no qualms whatever
about assuming an air of almighty omniscience oti
a question of art in cow-headed opposition to the
experts. The people elect a set of men to mend
their drains, and fatuously permit them to assume
a dictatorship of aesthetics. So it is not surprising
that in Melbourne the public drains are superior
to the public art.
FALLING DOWN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That [refusal of the Government to send Australian
soldiers to the Coronation] is a pitiful state of affairs, and
it is not least pitiful in the suggestion it affords of the
Government's inability to realise an event of quite out-
standing Empire interest. That low level of outlook is
observable in other directions, too. This meanness ap-
pears to be a concession to the body of opinion which has
been taught not only to regard ceremonial display as an
unworthy survival of an awful past, but to regard even
Empire and the Imperial tie as of scant significance.—
Normal Moan from Abnormal Morning Herald.
Britain's Empire is falling down 1
Falling down ! Falling down !
And George the Strong will lose his crown,
And Ruin ’whelm us all!
And it isn’t .due to foreign Courts,
To the fortification of Holland’s ports,
To Panama, or the Kaiser’s snorts,
That the Empire’s falling down 1
Britain’s Empire is breaking up !
Breaking up! Breaking up ;
And Britons are drinking a bitter cup,
Which they don’t like at all 1
And all the chaos and agitation
Have nothing to do with the Declaration
Of London, or Canada’s annexation—
They won’t break Britain up!
The Empire’s paralysed down the spine !
Down the spine ! Down the spine 1
Fall follows fast on its decline—
May Cohen keep us all!
And it’s not the fault of alleged Freetrade,
And a Government callous and half-afraid,
Or the Austrian keels that have just been laid,
That Britain’s in decline i
No! We are the cause of the Falling Down !
Falling Down ! Falling Down 1
We’re not sending soldiers to London Town —
May George forgive us all!
Our outlook’s low, and the prospect’s blue ;
We are mean and small and disloyal, too—
We’re little in all—save our I O U ;
Our soldiers are small and painfully few !
The Herald says this—so it must be true—
That the Empire’s Falling Down !
x.s.w.
CLA[?]CE O'H[?]


■V
MP
r WON’T YOU USE TS
what is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
k Sunlight Soap has once a
been tried.
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
PURE FOOD ACT, 190 B,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
Hunyadi
Janos
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
“-and drink half a tumbler
on arising, before breakfast, for
CONSTIPATION
If you want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. Gd. and 10s. 6d._
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,.
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance-
frotn George or King Streets, Sydney.*
DINNER. JACKETS
CORRECT IN EVERY DETAIL.
The illustration depicts the very latest style in Dinner
Jackets with collar and peak lapel—the collar black dress
cashmere material as the coat —the lapel of the finest silk.
The back is cut with a centre seam and vent. >
The dyeing of this material is absolutely fast—you need have
no fear of the color depreciating with age. Lasting many
seasons, as a Dinner Coat is required to, this point is one that
should not be overlooked.
Price - - 725, 6d.
Also with ordinary Plain Back and Silk Roll Collar,
68s. 6d.; or Coat only, 425.; with Vest, 50s,
When ordering, please send your chest, waist and inside leg measure.
Peapes (Si Co., Ltd.
“ Men's Outfitters,"
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The range of “ wireless ” steadily
lengthens. In addition to the ships of the
squadron and the liners, which are. continually
hurling fragments of dictionary at one another,
one Australian land, station lias begun to fling
words distances. Last week, the
Randwick “wireless” station got word from the
operator on the Union boat Moana, to the effect
that he had distinctly heard the station in the
racecourse suburb talking at Suva—2loo miles off.
In the same issue of the morning paper was
printed a triumphant cable from Paris, to the
effect that operators on the Eiffel Tower had
spoken to Canada—24oo miles. The Randwick
people are pretty confident that they can beat
that by about 100 miles; and record-breaking
words may ere this r have alighted on the mail-
lioat’s thin wireless roost, and shinned thankfully
down into the operator’s deck cabin. The If ederal
station is to have a range of 1250 miles —which, in
war time, would merely do to heave language
into the Pacific some 850 miles short of Suva
cable station. That looks like another hole in the
defence of Australia; and with warship and
private land-stations doing 2000-mile jumps all
round, it looks like an unnecessary hole.
A QUESTION OF DESIGN.
THE WIFE: “And now , dear Zephyr, what do
you think of my dressmaker's latest design? ”
DRAR ZEPHYR : “ That entirely depends , my
dear, on her design on my pocket .”
TO THOSE IN SICKNESS ON THE SEA.
“ And be sure, mother , you don't forget to keep
an eye on your teeth! ”
Unless the telegraph has made a bad mis-
take, the record smell of the universe will shortly
be raging on Perkins Island, near the entrance of
the Duck River, on the north-west coast of the Fly-
speck. The awful news was sent to a Melbourne
firm of shipping agents, and was to the effect that
three dozen and one large whales were ashore;
and the agent urged his people to hurriedly offer
a firm of soap-makers the facilities for working
the blubbery deposit. It is doubtful if there is
a whaler living who knows what three dozen
dead whales smell like. Only a whaler with a fine
vocabulary could describe it in plain English with-
out blasphemy. The gifted composer of Elektra
might do it in a grand opera ; and Yerestchagin,
the Russian painter of the horrors of war, could
have made a masterpiece of it. But the job is
beyond the power of ordinary pen and printer’s
ink. Probably the man who found the mountain-
range of deadness counted the cemetery with the
aid of powerful binoculars, and then set out in a
fast motor-launch for the horizon to wire the news
before the ripeness crept over the sea and clogged
the propellers.
* * * *
“Hamer ” : A feature of the trades union
movement in N.S.W. is the eruption of the
Young Brigade, and it is
this Young Brigade which
has had most influence in
changing the complexion of
the Political Labor move-
ment, and making it National
and Australian instead of
sectional and parochial, as
once it threatened to be.
There have always, of course,
been the young enthusiasts ;
but when they asserted their
views strongly they were
usually put in their places by
a reference to the five minutes
or so that they had been in
the movement. Even now,
there are trades-unionists and
others who rise up from
obscurity and claim recog-
nition on the ground that
they have 35 years, seven
weeks and five days’ service
behind them ; but the move-
ment has learned at last to
consider that length of service can’t compare
with energy of service.
* ■* # *
The Oldest Inhabitant, concerning the one
and only occasion when a British ship of war
fired its guns on business in Hobson’s Bay ;
J. J. Shilling-law, an authority on the maritime matters
of the ’so’s, wrote a reminiscent article in the Aus-
tralasian in 1873, and made an incidental reference to
H.M.S. Fantome. In August, 1854, Shillinglaw was in
charge of a guardboat. Says he : “On Sunday morning,
August 18, Boom! Boom! Two shotted guns from
H.M.S. Fantome across the bow of the Lightning. ‘What’s
all this?’ ‘Only a difficulty with Captain Forbes, who
won’t pay the wages of some men who have joined H.M.S.
‘ Up anchor,’ and away goes the Fantome down to the
Heads after the Lightning, where the little difficulty is
arranged.” Some sailors of the Lightning applied for
their discharge, whichjForbes refused. A signal was then
made that there were men on board the Lightning
anxious to serve Her Majesty. The Fantome sent a boat
and took the men off. They were added to the crew of
the war vessel. Wages were owing. Forbes, always a
stubborn man, refused to pay ; but as the men had joined
the navy, they were entitled to their money, although as
deserters it would be forfeit. The Lightning made that
trip to Liverpool in 63 days. Forbes afterwards had the
Schomberg, which he ran ashore at Barwon Heads.
“ U.S.” : The Mormon
question arises again in the
U.S. A. It is declared that the
abolition of ‘ polygamy was a
mere sham. , A multiplicity of
missuses is an essential part of
the Mormon system ; without
this they must repudiate their
Bible and become mere Metho-
dists. Maeterlinck’s “Blue
Bird ” has the conceit of the
children waiting to be born.
This is the very basic idea of the
Book of Mormon—untold bil-
lions of spirits born in the spirit
world and striving to be born in
a material world, by which alone
they can attain high rank in the
spirit world. So it is every man’s
duty to become the father of
as many children as he can. In
this way polygamy is vital and
integral. After many other
measures had been tried and!
evaded, the law of 1890 confis-
cated all Mormon Church pro-
perty. That made them give up
on the polygamy question ; and
the chief man, President Wood-
ruff, obtained a convenient reve-
lation that polygamy was abol-
ished. After a few years’ trial
of this pretence, and apparently
universal assent by the Mor-
mons, Utah was made »
Sovereign State. That was the
turning point: the mask soon
began to drop. It has now-
dropped so far that when Presi-
dent Smith and Lyman—the
next man—were recently ex-
amined before a Congress Com-
mittee, they candidly declared
their principles, and admitted
that they practise polygamy. So
U.S. ’statesmen realise at last
that nothing can undo the
polygamy of the Book of Mor-
mon, and that the whole trouble
will have to be faced again.
# * * *
“ The Lyre ” ; I am trying to teach school
in a timber-cutting district where
bullock-teams whiz about, directed by
long, thin, grey whips and short,
thick, red words. Most of the
boys, big and small, who attend are
from the bullock-dray garages; and,
in most cases, they are mapped out
for bullock chauffeurs, and thp,t
only. Their parents make it plain
that “punchin’ ” is the goal to kick
for, and set them longing for the time
when they will have “bullicks” of
their own to swear at —same as pa.
Now, in slack times, lads of 15 or
so, who have been missing from
school for a year, and whose pre-
vious attendances have averaged from
half to a full day per week, are
passed over to me for a “finishing”
course of three months. I take them
on, knowing the exact conditions,
and that the only earthly good
I can do them is to give them suffi-
cient reading, writing and figuring
for the very ordinary affairs of cow-
life, with perhaps enough to carry
them through the secretaryship of a
bullock-puncher’s union. But what
am I compelled by a syllabus-
saturated inspector to give them ?
Brush work, modelling, music, ele-
mentary science, Nature study—
flowers, beetles, etc. —civics, morals,
Scripture, algebra, etc. I could
wedge in a smattering of the three
essential R’s; but if I indulge them
with an overdose of these, to the
neglect of the fine arts, the syllabus-
saturated inspector will be down
upon me like one of the sons of Anak.
* * *
In the North Coast (N.S.W.),
Cow is the only Allah, and the man
who owns her makes the Profit.
Wherefore the bank manager falls
down and worships, and the store-
keeper makes offerings. There was
a show up that way lately, and the
managers of the two biggest and
toniest banks led round one a bull
and the other a cow. The clerk-
lings sat in the stand biting their lips.
It might be their turn some day—if they had the
luck to become managers with the job of hunting
a rich cocky’s doubtful account.
* * * *
“Eddyson” : I venture to expostulate. Why
this effusive insistence on the title “doctor”?
You butt into it everywhere. “Goodday, doctor ”
—with the unction of a lard dep6t. “It’s a nice
day, doctor.” “ How are you, doctor ? ” Women
are the worst offenders; they can throw more
sticky feeling into “ Oh, so pleased to meet you,
doctor ! ” than the average man can summon to
the funeral of all his wife’s relations. Why so
much, “doctor”? Or, if the idea is in the nature
of a professional puff, why not push it along?
Let us have: “Good day, lawyer”; “How are
you, actor?” “It’s a nice day, civil engineer”;
“Pleased to meet you, poet,” etc. We should all
be called after our callings, and so enjoy the
sweet uses of advertisement.
The committee of the Bendigo Easter Fair
has finally decided not to have a “ woodchop for
ladies” in its programme of sports. The ladies’
woodcutting contest was advertised, but has been
expunged because of the idea that such a display
might be unseemly. The proposal created con-
sternation among the citizens of Bendigo. It was
openly declared that no real lady would enter :
A ladies’chopping contest? Shame!
This thing must never be.
Indignant fathers made the claim:
“ Expunge vulgar-i-tee / ”
By cuter minds the hubbies’ scare
Is clearly understood:
They feared to have made public there
How clever and experienced were
Their wives at cutting wood !
* * * *
“ Yarraman ” hints that Black Sister begins
to see through Man: —
Had an interesting sidelight recently thrown on various
customs and magic ceremonies of the N.T. blacks. Cer-
tain animals and birds may only be captured or killed by
lubras, and the bucks are emphatic in saying that death
or serious illness will befall any male meddling with such
animals. I recently questioned a buck on this topic,
and his reply was vigorous. But the lubra I afterwards
interrogated was still more vigorous. “ Huh 1 boss, him
savvy 1 Him all about talk talk longa that! My savvy 1
Him big feller lazy—no more wantum work. Him talk
longa lubra, him quick-feller die. Lubra silly feller, him
work: blackfellow lie down big-feller sleep. Him savvy ! ”
* * * *
An agitation against countci’ lunches has
been started by the Hotelkeepers’ Association of
Victoria. At Bungs’ last meeting several mem-
bers shut one eye and argued that these lunches
were insanitary because of Melbourne’s plentiful
dust, and because the goods might be handled by
consumptive persons. Moreover, an awful moral
aspect of the question was presented by one hotel-
keeper. The practice of giving counter lunches,
he said, made boys thieve ; demoralised apparently
by the food, they took forks and plates. Another
moralist declared that men who satisfied them-
selves with a 3d. lunch, with beer, neglected work
and did not provide food for their families. The
truth, of course, so far as it appeals to Mr. Bung
and family, is that the little ham sandwich which
used to be given with a long beer at lunch-times
has, by force of competition, grown to a satisfying
meal ; and the meal has eaten much of the profits,
and has, moreover, hit the eating-shop people in
CURED.
SHE: “Before our marriage you said you loved
me madly."
HE: “And now I love you sanely .”
the place where they live. The hotelkeepers,,
however, want to drop the practice on sanitary-
grounds if they can ; so they are to see the boss:
of the Health Department about it. His name is.
Ham —Dr. Ham.
A SCOTCH REMEDY FOR “THE SADDEST
COUNTRY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Loxdon, Tuesday.— Sir J. Sinclair, one of the Scottish
Agricultural Commissioners who recently toured Aus-
tralia, wh'en interviewed on his arrival at Plymouth, said
that in his opinion Australia was the saddest country he
had ever seen, having regard to the labor problems con-
fronting the Commonwealth. He had never heard bit-
terer expressions used by employees to employers, and
vice-vtrsa, than in Australia.— Cable.
Good whisky. I’m told by a Scotchman who knows,
Never reaches the foreigner’s shelf;
To cellars and dram-shops the best of it flows,
And the Scotchman absorbs it himself;
Which makes me regard the advice that he sends
Like the drink of inferior sort;
It’s merely got up like the genuine blends,
And is specially “packed for export.”
The drizzle comes down on the roofs of Dundee
Where the worker resides in one room ;
There bosses are gay, for the meek employee
Glumly goes to his work in the gloom ;
There damp unemployed haunt the well-guarded gate
Till the day and its chances are done ;
There’s peace, perfect peace, where the unemployed
wait,
And there's rarely a glimpse of the sun.
The drizzle comes down on the roofs of Dundee
And the’i-oofs of the numerous kirk ;
The point of the joke it is easy to see
And the rags of the glum out-of-work ;
Ten men for one billet, and wages to match,
For McFat may good rest guarantee ;
Hut great is the need for a sizeable patch
On the logical breeks of Dundee.
We’ve sunshine and jobs for the hard-working sort,
And bad language no land can avoid
By keeping at hand in each city and port
Great battalions of starved unemployed ;
Australia, we’re satisfied, “isn't too bad,”
And we wish in the friendliest way
To say that if Scotland is happy and glad
We would not give a d n to be gay !
•jllb * drizzle comes dojvn on the roofs of Dundee,
And the Scotchman comes down on his drink ;
Pis second-rate whisky is sent oversea—
And the same we expensively sink ;
The liquor we’re willing to keep on our shelves,
For with money we’re rather too free ;
But—when there is need we can think for ourselves !
So be blowed to the words of Dundee !
N.S.W.
FERGUS MAcBAGPIPES.


Svc« s s{« 1 flis^ r oVt:r Melb
-sis
A lady well known In political circles
has presented King with a handsome
meerschaum pipe, silver mounted.
''fobi.cco »“ r
of life auejfo" J“S r |
K»V» <i»f "> a ' llowoa “ I s *-//C\
* 6akbi^ S . ([ /\\|
tfclKdijt' Delete- Pv** 0 '! JP 4 .'
o„t--To mo *S >B* •?"«'
o>m*<>y Kino. W.ll *» ««£
me a« VMS""*'-' v-.% )?«
„„fo«-tu"Kre •
/v\elt)'oJ>sts ■— A|jJ wc
ill be be*«r i \ A ,V
ho, in-We Hereafter.
h&y« V)^«v,c4
METHODIST CONFERENCE.
OPENS NEXT WEEK.
The annual conference of the Metho-
dist Church In Victoria and Tasmania
will begin its sessions in Wesiiey Church
on Tuesday, February 28i at 7 p.m. The
delegates will number about 450.
fo- ''K
Kin? *-JU £>«»**"
to 3 S end him Ow -to -&e
Coron«<Ton Wllfc _ h'S f > * t ' r< ”’
Premier /A^rrW
/ *1 e^i d; s -r\WeeK' \-f MelbVr^e
jfee ■
A C«ll«cHon .
1* AlpHj'odis't':- w « ventltrc. -to
sucS) .
'X** Jo : - Bestir-te wbcii'A lime longer
Lift* Khov^_
P* J# l "ferow; kroftfer.
Al^oii(y WeeK is v *c*X
<\~ o our
MOSTLY MONARCHS AND METHODISTS.


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
Whole Pearl and Choice
Diamonds, £l2/12/«
Diamonds and Emerald,
£ll/11/=-
1 Sapphire and Best
Diamonds, £lO.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and-Pendants, and Jewellery generally, at prices
never before attempted in Australia.
WHY? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have
to live up to it, and so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the actual c
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
it # * *
“ Tarboy ” : “M.V.” has put the whole
wet-sheep question in a nutshell when he asks
“J.T.T.” (B. 2/2/ ’ll ): “Has he ever seen a
‘ rousie ’ ‘ jobbed ’ over wet sheep by a shearer, or
rice versa?” It has seemed tb me for the past
10 years that the vote “ wet” or “dry” in any
shed, at any shearing, is decided before the men
leave their villas in the morning for their place of
business. In this decision there are at least four
factors. First: Are the majority (shearers and
rousies) of opinion that places in the next shed
are likely to be lost by delay ? If “ yes,” then
the sheep will be “dry.” Second: Has there
been a long spell of fine weather, and no other
break in the shearing ? Then the sheep will not
be dry. Everybody (including the boss) is tired.
Third : What sort of a bloke is the shed-boss ? If
they like him, they will do what they can to
oblige him. If he is a “ fair cow,” and doesn’t
want a “wet” vote, the sheep will be wet.
Fourth, last, and least: Are the sheep really wet?
It is certain that if there" is any “jobbing,” it will
be on account of the vote on this last question ;
for to suit the “rousies’” book the sheep should
be wet pretty often. So I say, with “M.V.,”
that the question depends a good deal upon
which, the “jobbers” or the “jobbees,” are best
“on the knuckle.” On the first three questions
there is, practically, unanimity.
IN EXCELSIS.
THE COUSIN-JACK NIMER: “My Lor’, Maister
Tregiggins , I’m some pleased for to see ’e
back from hogtue t’ Cornwall. What soort of
time ded ’e ’are, ’un? ”
THE OTHER COUSIN JACK : “ Braave an’ fine,
Billy, m’ son. Why, down Reedruth 1 singed
(sang) to fower funerals.”
“Pick” (B. 22/12/MO), like
others, seemS'-fecrilae in total ignorance of the fact
that the shearing' agreement confirmed by the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, contains the
following clause : “ No shearer shall be compelled
to shear sheep which he has reasonable cause to
consider wet.” So many squatters have been
beaten in Court during the last two or three years
through the agency of this clause that the shear-
ing of wet sheep is almost a relic of the Dark Ages
—which is probably the reason why shearing con-
tractors offer the squatter the following proposi-
tion : “We will shear your sheep for a halfpenny
a head less if you will pay our shed-hands’ wages
during wet weather.” It’s a bit of a gamble, but
some of them take it on.
“J.G.”: “Leo Lear,” in his defence of
the cocky (B. 26/1/11), wants to know if the
cocky is more dishonest than lawyers, loaf-
ers, reporters and various others. Maybe
he isn’t; but then they don’t continually
cackle about their honesty, and the cocky does.
“ Lear ” has never found the cocky that
helped to fill his potato bags with soil and stones.
I have. One time I was spud-digging for a cocky
who was simply delighted when the rain came
during operations. He explained to me that the
wet weather meant that the earth wotdd stick to
the potatoes; consequently it would not take so
many tubers to fill a bag. In fact, it is a general
thing for spud-cockies to urge their diggers to root
out the spuds like blazes when the ground is wet.
Did “Lear” never run across the other one who
mixes straw worth about 10s. per ton with hay
worth £4 per ton, cuts up the lot, and sells it as
prime chaff at £5 per ton ? Did he never meet
the soil tickler who poured water over his hay,
just before selling it, and charged up the water at
£4 or £5 per ton ? Did he never see the cow
cookies in the old creamery days pour water in
the milk they took to the creamery ; and if they
should be bowled out by a Babcock test, swear
blind that the water “muster got into ther cans
during the night when the lids were off, and it
muster rained,” though perhaps it was as dry as
the hobs of Hades for 100 miles around ? As for
the good wages paid by cocky, I would like to find
a few that are paying 7s. per day for an eight
hours’ day. Some of them, no doubt, had
to pay that and more during the recent har-
vest ; but the hours were nearer 16 than eight.
“Leo Lear” says, too, that the cocky is not a
glutton at timber destruction. Nothing satisfies
the average cocky better than to see every tree on
his farm ringbarked, or burnt down ; and after he
has killed all the trees on his own land, he goes
out and does likewise by the trees growing on the
public roads. In Victoria alone tens of thousands
of pounds’worth of timberhave been thusdestroved
to make room for bracken, fern and useless scrub;
and some day the cocky who has done it will be
cursed with a mighty curse for killing good trees
to make room for bad weeds. I agree with
“Lear’’when he says that we cannot have too
many farmers. But they need to be of the right
sort, and they want to be severely regulated by
law, the same as most employers, though their
own idea is that, for some inscrutable reason, they
in particular should be left severely alone.
* • * *
“Hamer”: An M.L. scientist told the
papers recently that in his view the Maori will
ultimately be absorbed in the white ; also that
the Caucasian origin of the Maori was vindicated
by the disappearance of Maori characteristics in
the descendants of a crossbred alliance. To
which I answer that it isn’t and they don’t. The
child of a white and Maori alliance maybe almost
as pale as its Caucasian parent; but in most cases
the offspring will revert, even if the half- or
quarter-caste marries a pure white: The reversion
is particularly noticeable in the first child of such
a marriage, which I hold is due to the dread of the
mother—be it she or the father who possesses the
Maori blood—that the Maori will show in the
child. Her brooding on the matter produces the
tragedy she dreads. The result is less noticeable
in the other children, doubtless because, by the
time they occur, the mother has grown hardened
to the idea. I remember one case of a particu-
larly sensitive woman married to a man whose
grandfather had been a half-caste Maori. The
child was absolute Maori.
* * * *
“Pick”: Can any bloke, fellow or cow
deny my assertion that the finest landscape view
in Australia may be obtained from Stony
Cutting, at the top of Brown Mountain
(N.S.W.), looking down the Bemboka
Valley? The aspect from this spot
would be an artist’s paradise, if there
1 were any paradise for an artist. To
the north the ranges wind away with
their precipitous cliffs of grey and
purple, towering at intervals over the
brown and red gum tree-tops, and
receding into the misty blue of dis-
tant peaks. To the right the moun-
tain rears itself towards the sky, its
sides clothed with every variety of
South Coast vegetation, and beautiful
jungles of fern and brush-wood cut
their way into hill-side gaps, from
which ripple and splash the clearest
of mountain rivulets. The yellow
zig-zag of the road, winding into the
valley below, relieves the super-
abundance of greenery ; and far
down, the Bemboka river, like a
silver streak, twists among the knolls
on its way to the sea, with the many-
named village of Bemboka, pr
Colombo, or Lvttleton, scattered
along its southern bank. Beyond are
the partly-cleared hills and open
forests of the Kameruka country, a
magnificent panorama of well-grassed
land dotted here and there with dairy
homesteads and waving fodder crops,
and fringed to the east by blue hills
topped with clouds. I have seen nothing
that surpasses this outlook ; and I won’t
believe any Abo-liar who rushes in and says he
can better it. t
* * *
“ Burnsy ” : Does any Abo. writer know if
frogs go out on the scoot, or take on regular tenders?
Some four months ago one came to live in a pot
of fern on my verandah. He came as a small
pocket edition, but a careful diet of skinned cock-
roaches made a very full-sized volume of him.
He had three square feeds a day, with an occas-
ional supper thrown in on Saturday nights. One
morning, about six weeks ago, he was among the
missing, and I had given up all hope of his re-
turn, when a fortnight later he re-appeared. I
killed the fatted cockroach, but he would have
none of it. He seemed to have lost all his am-
bition—had a sleepy, Johnweary look about his
eyes, and an aspect of don’t-care-a-hangness. For
two days he couldn’t have looked more sorry for
himself had he been a constant traveller on the
Vic. railways, and had heard that Tait was coming
back. However, after that he resumed his regular
feeds, until two days ago he became a Waratah
again. I’m anxious to know where he gets to, for
if he isn’t a respectable frog I couldn’t think of
keeping him on the premises. Even the prodigal
son was only served with fatted calf once.
AFTER THE ACCIDENT.
PAROON: “Are you there, Peter?"
ANGRY VOICK FROM BELOW : “ Where the blazes d'ye think I'd be? D'ye think I'd knocked
the bottom out? ”
“E.M.W.”: I can corroborate “The
Scapegoat’s” statement (B. 5/1/11) as to the
wagtail’s valor. Two seasons ago a couple
nested in a garden where lived a family of four
humans. Wag violently objected to one member
of the family, and at every opportunity would
pursue him with heated language and other
weapons. Of the other residents he took no
notice whatever, but one of a brace of house cats
was his special aversion. That cat was afraid to
go outside the house in the day-time before view-
ing the surroundings from the front and back
windows.
* * * *
“ Yalgun” : Whether snakes do or don’t
swallow their young I know not, but I certainly
once came across a 9ft. carpet snake on the Tim-
barra (N.S.W.) trying to swallow himself. He
had succeeded in getting about six inches of him-
self down his throat, and was then lying dormant
like a motor wheel-tyre and pondering things. I
thought he was trying to invent some new way of
locomotion, but found on post-mortem ex-
amination the cause of his predicament.
An eaglehawk had seized him about Gin.
from the tail. Evidently the bird was
unable to rise with him, and the ,
“carpet,” not wishing to miss a meal, had
caught him and swallowed him. But in
doing so the snake had to swallow Gin. of
himself, as the talons of the eaglehawk
refused to release their grip.
“Lupus”: Warrnambool, which owns
John Murray and is to have the next Australian
Fire Brigades’ Demonstration, has some features
of interest not catalogued in the “Tourists
Guide.” For one thing, it has Irish blight.
When Mac Alpine,, the Victorian Government
Vegetable Pathologist, assured the spud-farmers
that the disease was in the district, they merely
said “Liar.” To prove it they appealed to a
member of the Scotch Agricultural Commission ;
but he confirmed Mac Alpine. Now that the
brown fruit is hardly worth disinterment, they
tear their whiskers and mostly say “Gripes!”
Another blight is the Ancient Inhabitant and the
breakwater. Each and every ancient, jerk-
ing his thumb into your eyeball, remarks :
“ Magnificent strukcher, ain’t it! ” I threw one
of them into the sea the other day. A blue
pointer snapped him. The police charged me
with damaging Records of the Past. Fined 2s. 6d.
But the really bright features of W’bool are its
bands. There are two. One is a Temperance
Band, with so much emphasis on the temperance
that the other becomes naturally a Beer Band.
The visitor entering the town of an evening is
shocked to meet a circular disturbance of great
violence. But it is nothing ; only the rival bands
trying to blare each other down whilst marching
round the main block of the town. The Beer
Band leads, braying; the Sodavvater Band fol-
lows, bleating. The inhabitants urge them on.
It is a test of endurance. In the Beer Band a
man bursts something and falls dead. He is
thrown into the sea. A soda water cornetist falls
lifeless. Sweep him away ! Don’t put the
men out of step ! On the corners partisans shout,
encouragingly : “Go it, Beers ! Their first
cornet’s blew his eye out.” “ Buck in Sodawaters !
Their Trombone’s fell dead”; and pleadingly:
“ F’r Gawd’s sake, Ginger, keep yer ’ead up.
Y’ain’t gettin’ giddy yet, are yer?” Finally,
both bands fall exhausted in the road, an energetic,
fire brigade hoses them back to life, and they
struggle home to recuperate.
“Waipuna”.: Was bush-whacking in
Northern Maoriland once. jFlies of the buzz
variety chewed the axe-handles, polluted every-
thing from the blankets to the tucker, and made
life one long misery. Then a qhap joined the camp
and saved our lives. He hung the grub up in the
galley, and just under it placed a tin of Water con-
taining a nosegay of white clover blossoms. Also,
he stuck one or two of the blooms on the meat.
Thereafter no flies were to be seen in that galley.
There is a chance of a fortune for the genius who
can extract the fly-shooing principle from the
übiquitous blossom.
THE ENEMY IN THE REAR.
SERGEANT: “Hello! Wat’s up! ’As Splinter
sighted the enemy? ”
PROVATE: “No —'just ’appened to sit down on an
ant-hill."
“ Midd ” : The cow-cocky does not de-
serve all the diplomas for child sweating ; the
wheat-grower derffands a share. During this past
harvest he has had from my small school alone five
boy-pupils to sew bags, stock, f eed-up, and run mes-
sages for 14 hours per day, as near as I can work
it out, at the cost of ss. per head per week ; four
girls of from 12 to 14 slaveying as kitcheners and
waslihousers at the same expense ; arid now he’s
got half a dozen lads leading the grain-lifting nags
for eight or 10 hours, daily. And Providence
knows as well as I do that he’ll have the same
gang of youthful Australians all through next
ploughing at the same remuneration. Of course,
I can come at him for the short attendance of the
youngsters at school; but that wouldn t make
things better for the sweated juveniles nor incon-
venience him. The .lay Pees, after a whispered
consultation, invariably arrive at the conclusion
that Wheaty is a deserving resident who has
erred in a trivial way through no fault of his own,
but simply through the arrogance of the Labor
agitators. The“ technical breach ” is met by a
ss. fine, and the prosecuting teacher is thereafter
reported to headquarters with vengeful consist-
ency. A fellow-feeling makes us infernally kind.
THE SCHOOLHOUSE UNDER THE HILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The run lies all to the west of the creek,
And all the tracks should lead that waj’,
Save the one grass road of once-a-week
To the church where the boss and missus pray.
The boss goes down to the house of prayer ;
He needs must go, for his sins are red ;
But we worship the gods of the open air,
The horse beneath and the sky o’erhead.
Seldom in all the days gone by
Was a hoof-mark shown on the churchward way,
Now it’s beaten brown and worn and dry
By the traffic that passes day by day.
For Bill and Jim may be riding west,
But they turn away from the setting sun,
And ttie track that the riders love the,best
Is strangely enough the longer one.
The little grey church is closed and still.
But the gum-tree shadows are soft and cool,
By the red-roofed shed beneath the hill
Where the station children come to school.
There’s a hum of voices when tasks begin,
And the two long windows are open wide,
So a stalwart rider perchance may win
A smile or a word from the girl inside.
A smile or a word, arid we go our way
With a lighter heart and a stronger will,
And the road before us is not so grey
For the thought of the schoolhouse ’neath the hill.
n. s.w.
D. M. W.


Make the Liver
Do its Duty
Nine times in ten when the liver is right
the stomach and bowels are right
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS
gently but firmly com-
pel a lazy liver to
do its duty.
Cure Con-
stipation,
Indiges-
tion,
Sick
Carters
Mttle•
IVER
PILLS.
Headache, and Distress after Eating.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
WEAREBORN to
OFFER BENEFITS
The insurance office
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 George St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly against
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Stock feld \ Joint
H. S. Doherty /Managers.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lilt and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F* 0* Robinson, Proprietor
The Tantanoola tiger was a
crude beast compared with a “ wool hawk” that
took up its perch some years ago at The Dungeon,
in the Dubbo district (N.S.W.). This bird of
prey abode in a patch of scrub supposed to be so
thick that a dog couldn’t bark in it, and at shear-
ing time it helped the station divest the jumbuck
of his golden overcoat. It was a considerate bird,
for, having annexed or manufactured a tar brand,
it branded the barbered sheep with the station
mark. Its operations were a source of much trouble
to many overseers, who could not understand how
they always seemed to have more sheep than
fleeces. At last the bird made the fatal mistake
of not discovering that the paddock had been
mustered thiough the day and filled again with
“ woollies.” The sheep the hawk turned out
freshly shorn were discovered running with the
woollies, and a bit of careful tracking did the rest.
IRRESISTIBLE FORCE.
"I don’ like t' go home. M' wife 'll smell
liquor."
“ Then hoi’ y' breath!"
"Can't, o' boy; ish too strong! Mightsh well
hoi’ a neleph’nt.”
A FAIR SHOT.
UNCLE FAT : “ Ho! So you go to
Sunday-school, do you Well,
tell me who caused Adam and
Eve to he turned out of the
Garden of Eden, an’ I’ll
give you, a florin.”
INTELLIGENT NEPHEW: “I know
—the Labor party.”
U.F.: “ Well, you ain't exactly
right, my boy — but — here's
the florin.”
“ Geofred ” : On this wet-sheep question,
I want to give “ J.T.T.” (B. 5/l/’ll) one instance
where “ rousies ” did have a very big influence.
’Twas at one of the. biggest sheds in the land of
the Prickly Pear, early in 1908, and writer was a
“ rousie.” To begin with, we had about five
days’ solid water presented to us, “from above.”
as Jud would say. But it
didn’t stop at that, for after
five weeks’ work, some acci-
dent happened to the celestial
cistern, and we had more
wetness for about three days.
Had a start been made when
it was proposed, it would have
meant putting in Saturday
morning as the starting point;
and to this we “rousies”
strongly objected. A meeting
was held, and it was decided
to approach a shearer who was
known to be a “rousies’
man.” The result of the vote
on the Saturday was a majority
of one for “wet sheep,” and
the majority consisted of “ the
rousies’ man.” Saturday night
there was a further shower ;
and rousies looked to a further
spell of nap, euchre, tucker
and thirty bob a week. But
on the Monday our man de-
serted us, and the verdict was
“dry sheep” by a majority of
two. This was too much, and
a meeting was held. Result:
“Classers’ pony” instructed
to become ill. I happened to
be the “pony,” and by first
smoko I had a very bad
cough. At dinner time I was
in bed with bronchitis, whoop-
ing cough, croup or any old
thing likely to come from
carrying wet wool. The
“rousies” then decided not to
work, and, to get over the
“strike” difficulty, gave “a
fortnight’s notice ” in a body.
But the classer was a pretty
decent chap, and at the 2.20
smoko the knock-off whistle
sounded. The classer had
refused to handle wet wool !
Who says the rousies’ influence
is nil? He hasn’t got a vote
certainly, but lie’s got what’s
better than a vote—power.
“ Utiku ” : I have lived years amongst
the Maoris, and know enough of the language to
act as interpreter; so let me shove my spoke into
the controversy raging round my friend’s “pidgin”
English. I have never heard Henaresay “ hava”
for have. In the district I infest, the Maori per-
sistently refuses to use the word, “have.” He
always says “ got.” On the rare occasions he does
use “ have,” he says “ have or “ haf.” Nor does
he use the word “ pfeller.” He has no need to, as
his language contains an “f” sound, viz., “wh.”
“Wh” is sounded like “fw ” (“ whawhai ” =
“ fwa-fwi ”=fight). Another peculiarity of the
Maori is his inability to place the word “ went.”
He always says “gone”: “We all gone to
Pipiriki yesterday.”
“Lazecus”: Be “A. Rusin’s ” cert, for
the protection of l>ees from ants (B. 26/1/T1).
Will you allow me, as a practical bee-man of
many years’ experience, to state that the simplest
and most efficacious plan is to give the bees a
sporting chance by contracting their hive entrance
to, say, two or three inches in width, or even less,
if the colony is weak. This gives the bees, like
Horatius of old, a “bit of dead wood ” on
their friends, the enemy. Take Italian bees
—compatriots, by the way, of the above-
mentioned Bloke who kept the bridge in the brave
days of old. Their gate is guarded, night and
day, by a sufficient force of warriors, honest, brave
and vigilant. I have often watched the nefarious
plunderer attempting to invade the sanctity of the
Dago bees’ home. He is at once pounced upon and
banged and whirled about in seven ways at once,
till he becomes giddy and faints. Then he is
borne away high up towards the heavens by the
victorious bee, the latter using shocking language
with an Italian accent. The ultimate fate of that
ant is a dark mystery. He is probably carried
skyward a few miles and then dropped with such
violence that his neck is broken in several places.
If “Gyp” (B. 5/1/T1) finds my plan does not
answer, then she has the wrong brand of bees.
Let her get the Italian strain. No others are in
the same street with these when it comes to a
question of keeping the hives free of moths and
other bee-enemies.
* * * *
“ Vagabond ” : I wish you would start a
discussion on snake-bite cures right away* I’ve
just had the scare of my life. Sat down within
inches of a big crawler, and rose so hurriedly that
I went up about 10ft. before I stopped. Don’t
know what breed of snake it was. I didn’t stop
to inquire at first, and when I had finished using
a thick stick on him it would have taken an
expert to say whether he was,a black snake or a
purple patch or a yard of frayed sausage meat.
As I am on the wallaby just now, the question is
a pressing one. My trouble is that I’ve heard
of such a lot of cures, but don’t know' if any of
them are good enough to pull a man through even
a skeeter bite. When I was in the Queensland
bush last year I carried a fearsome hypodermic
strychnine fixing, and afterwards heard in Brisbane
that more people died from strychnine than from
snake. A man on the track can’t cart round a.
chemist’s shop, and even if he did he wouldn’t
know whether the strychnine cure and the per-
manganate cure wouldn’t play two-up with his
health. If you add the chloride of lime cure it
only alters it to a three-handed poker game,’or,
with the snake venom counted in, to a turn at
bridge. And as each point in the gamble is your
chance of pulling through, and the winner rakes
in your one and only life, it isn’t good enough.
I’ve killed several snakes while on the track, and
seen so many—not the black bottle variety with the
pink tails—that I’rn getting a whole lot nervous.
* » * *
“ Cumbangaree ” : Despite “ Snooker’s ”
cynical remarks (B. 19/1/11), “ Condamine” was
not necessarily leg-pulling when he wrote of the
2000 rabbits which thrived on the sandy hill-top.
My experience is that rabbits are capable of doing
well in the more barren parts of Gehenna. For
example, a little to the north of Coff’s Harbor
(N. Coast of N.S.W.) lie the Solitary Islands.
The southernmost of the three holds a lighthouse,
its attendants, their families, an old pedagogue
(supplied by the Marine Board), three goats and a
whole Cataract Dam-full of rabbits. The place is
simply bare, unwatered rock. The goats are
cared for, but the rabbits are deliberately
neglected. Yet they don’t die out; but, on the
contrary, increase and multiply as though they
hadn’t to be total abstainers for 60 per cent, of
every year.
“Gumboil”: Be ant-extermination (B.
26/l/’ll). I had been gazing fixedly at a black
ants’ residence fdr some eight hours, one day, when
I noticed a ginger ant approaching. He bore
himself with a confident swagger. The blacks
were obviously perturbed. Heedless of their agi-
tation the newcomer forged ahead, knocked at the
front door and waited. A murderous demonstra-
tion was made against him by the tenants 5 but
he waved his feelers authoritatively and disap-
peared within, followed by an excited crowd. I
waited expecting shortly to see a mangled ginger
corpse flung on the ants’ corporation tip. Not
so. Presently a black ant emerged, and, with an
air of hopeless dejection, trudged away towards
the horizon. At short intervals others followed,
till finally the whole population seemed to have
emigrated. A quarter of an hour later the ginger
insect strolled out safe and sound, and, lighting
his pipe, sat with his legs crossed on the door-
step. When I returned about sunset he was just
retiring for the night, and no black ants had put
in an appearance. Next morning I dug the
tenant up—l found him asleep—and examined
him with a microscope. The head was beset by
a fringe of white feelers closely resembling
whiskers on a red-faced policeman. The expres-
sion of the countenance was languid and surly.
An ejection notice which I observed in his hip
pocket enabled me to diagnose him as a Bailiff
Ant. lam now breeding the variety as a certain
cure for the black ant.
• * * *
“ Chloe " : “ Cict ” (B. 26/l/’ll) and
“L.H.” (B. 2/2/T1) cast some doubt on my little
contribution with regard to the hatching habits of
emus. The information was given, as I said, on
the authority of the aboriginals of De Grey
Station (W.A.). Seeing that these natives have
had a little colony of the birds for years, and that
they had no object in lying about the matter,
writer is still inclined to maintain her opinion,
both as to the male and female birds taking turns
at setting, and also as to the other parts of the
yarn as well. The youngsters certainly have to
make an early shift for themselves. Apart from
what I’ve seen myself, Molloy, who drove the
Warrawagine-Hedland mail (and probably still
does) told me that, after hatching season, it was
common to see brood after brood of baby birds
running for shelter on the approach of the coach.
011 my trip our black boy caught one, which we
later passed on to the landlady of the Port Hed-
land Hotel.
*z* * *
“A.W.A.” : Have heard it said that
gohanna flesh is a delicacy, but as I haven’t tried
it, I don’t know. What I do know is that 111
pass “ sleepy ” lizard next time it is on the menu.
With a couple of mates I once took a stroll across
from Norseman (W.A.) to Tarcoola (S.A.). We
got on fairly comfortably except for a 200-mile
stretch on the Nullabor plains. Toward the end
of that stage we were two days without tucker,
and when things were looking very blue a gohan-
na crossed our path. We pursued, but he, had
too much toe. Our next game was a “ sleepy ”
lizard, which we promptly billy-canned. We
roasted him that night, and unanimously expec-
torate now every time we think of the blamed
thing. If there- is a contest for the most un-
savory dish I’ll weigh in on him, even though he
start 300 behind scratch.
ZIMMERLE, who won the sheep-shearing match
for the Australian championship at Toowoomba.
Stephens’ Studio.
“Pick”: Talking of bravery in birds, I
think the water-rooster worthy of honorable men-
tion. I was lying in wait for ducks by a seaside
morass one evening, when a swamp eagle sud-
denly swooped among some water chickens, play-
ing at a little distance from the rushes. The
young’ur.s, screaming “fire” and “blue murder,”
were being chivvied for their lives, when a Mrs.
Duck dashed in upon the flank of the enemy, and
at once became the object of attack herself. She
was being cruelly mauled when something de-
scended upon her assailant like a meteorite hurled
by a small boy in Heaven at Satan’s roof, and
from a whirlwind of kicks and flying feathers I
discerned that the rooster of the tribe was taking
a claw in the disturbance. He was only a bantam
weight, but he made up in energy what he lacked
in avoirdupois, and at the end of the third round
his big adversary, much bedraggled, corkscrewed
skyward. I called him back so suddeidy that the
shock killed him.
THE LAND OF DROWSY NIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you pound a sleepless pillow in the good old
summer-time
To the music of mosquitoes, singing paeans in their
prime—
In their prime of youth add fatness. When you wriggle
oh your bed
Too near those worried areas where the ducks and fowls
are fed,
You’d like your old-time sleeping-draught—the sighing
of the gums—
Green boughs with blossom-burdens bent
To bless your slumbers with their scent,
In the timber by the creek side where the mountain-
water drums.
In the time of midnight noises—hear the faint, mys-
terious sound
Of the cockroach in the pantry, of the house-rat battling
round—
When you smell the myriad city scents that hurtle
through the air,
It’s then you think of Crooked Creek and the nights you
knew out there,
Where you sank to lovely slumber id a belt of drowsy
gums.
Where far the eucalyptus calls
There are no trains, nor big, brick walls,
And you get no horror-laden breeze from littered city
slums.
When the festive, midnight cabby comes “clip-clipping”
down the road
Through the sweet, suburban stillness of your innocent
abode,
As you turn and toss your slipper at the cat upon the
sill.
As you fret in restless frenzy at the songs of Bosky Bill,
You think on how the cradle-song of the old, maternal
gums
Sends simple mortals off to sleep
To browse in dreamland-pastures deep
In the night ainu/g the timber where the late cab never
comes !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Pneumonic plague still ravages
Manchuria. Every inhabitant in
one village has died. — Cable.
Death finds the old Scythe
too slow.
THE PARADOX.
Sympathiser: “Why do you moan?”
Stout Party: “Because this land tax destroys land'
values, and my rents must go down.”
Sympathiser: “And why does your friend moan?”
Stout Party : “ Because the land tax compels him to put
up rents on his poor tenants.”
THE MARCH OF WOMAN.
Danzig, Friday.—At the execution
yesterday, at Insterberg. of a servant
girl named Mikowert, the headsman
was attired In a frock coat and wore a
silk hat and white gloves.— Cable,
He the proposal to shift the Sydney
Zoo, Captain Ohest, late president, says
the suggested Athol site is 100 near the
batteries and warships.
The Lion: “One more salute and I
shall go mad."
An open-air religious workers’ organi-
sation has been formed in Sydney It
was announced that ministers in future
would have to follow the people.
.11
Melbourne hotelkeepers are endeavor-
ing to abolish the counter-lunch.
A suggestion.
' It has been proposed in London that,
at the Coronation, the overseas repre-
sentatives should be allotted some
persona!'service.
And G.H.R. finds his girth of national
service at last.
THE WORLD, THE FLESH, AND THE LAND TAX.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
>S3ZL-
Cooling 1 Refreshing! Thirst Quenching!
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Bilambil, on the Tweed River (N.S.W.),
had a day’s sports recently. A prize was offered
for the largest family present. Two local men
divided the prize. Each of them had 17 on hand.
Archdeacon Crossley, of Melbourne, steps
into the shoes of Bishop Nelligan, of Auckland.
There’s a thousand a year in them ; but the arch-
deacon is prepared to put up with that discomfort.
Australia is going to have various enter-
tainments during 1912. Firstly, the Chapzander
Mission is returning on a vigorous hunt for little
souls and large coins. Earlier in the year the
country will receive a visit from Ella 'Wheeler
Wilcox, of America—the Poet Laureate of the
nursery, who feeds her Pegasus on arrowroot bis-
cuits and one-cow’s milk.
DAVY BUDDO , Minister of Internal
Affairs (M.L.)
Premier John Murray’s twin pet abomi-
nations are cigarettes and barmaids, and he has
the same remedy for both—abolition. John in-
sists it is the sweet smile of the barmaid that
makes drinkers. Adam said the woman tempted
him, and he did eat, and Murray to-day is telling
the same old tale, only the apples are pressed into
cider now. If J. Weary thinks man can be made
teetotal by pushing woman from the pump, let
him take a look at America and cure himself. He
won’t find the barmaid there ; but even he will be
able to keep awake long enough to find a few
drinks and drinkers.
The will of the late L. L. Lewis, of Mel-
bourne, who had £30,000 to dispose of, indicates
the Importance of Being Parents in the minds of
some people. Lewis was a childless citizen with
an itching desire to keep his name alive. So he
bequeathed £6OO to the Old Colonists’ Associa-
tion for the erection of two cottages, to be
named after Mr. and Mrs. L. L. Lewis re-
spectively. To Trinity College he left £lOOO
for an L. L. Lewis scholarship; to the Chil-
dren’s Hospital he left £lOOO for the endow-
ment of two cots to be labelled with the names
of himself and Mrs. L. L. ; and the residue
of his estate goes to the Children’s Hos- ,
pital, after the decease of his widow.
Lewis’s interest in children was due .
to the fact that he had never possessed
a nursery of his own. He thought
of kiddies as links connecting their
parents with future generations ; he
thought himself unfortunate in not
having any such links; and, lest
Posterity should soon forget him,
he devoted money to the pur-
chase of standing advts. Which
was, anyhow, preferable to the
egotism of Dr. Beaney, a gaudy
Melbourne surgeon of yore, who
willed away £lO,OOO for the pur-
chase of a memorial tablet in Can-
terbury Cathedral.
Not long back I
met a man whom I had not seen
for years. I came upon him sud-
denly in a big club, and I never
felt how much older I was getting
till I saw how much younger that
fellow was becoming. He looked
as if he had obtained an advance
copy of Life’s Catalogue of Health,
and had purchased the pick of the goods.
We had a whisky and soda, and lighted
our pipes with a single match. Something
pleased us mightily as we did so, and we
laughed in the mingled blue tobacco
smoke. And that’s all I’ve got to remem-
ber him by. I sailed away, and he went
home ; and a few days later the cable man
passed me the bald information that A.
A. K. Duncan, deputy public trustee of
Maoriland, had dropped down dead at
the close of the day’s work. It is of
little moment to me that one of the best
officers in the department has gone—the
department will be sorry enough for that without
any outsider taking a hand—but that a sunny-
hearted man and friend should be snuffed out thus
urges me to call a public meeting and indict
Death as no longer retaining the confidence of
fair-minded citizens.
The hunt for “ silk ” at the N.S.W. Bar
seems to have settled down to two starters—
G. E. Rich and L. E. Leverrier, both Equity men.
Irvine, K.C., of Victoria, wants to be also a
K.C. in N. S. Wales ; but as he was only admitted
to the N.S.W. Bar a few months ago, Attorney-
General Holman is chasing precedents.
Some of the things which the repairing
gangs have discovered lately on the North Queens-
land railways recall an old gibe. The con-
tractor was being farewelled, and told the dinner-
table that now he was going to settle down and
take it easy. Then the friend with the nasty
tongue chipped in : “ Well, what about calling
your place Dunrobin ? ”
Victorian Anglican circles have been bub-
bling over the engagement of the Rev. N. D.
Herring, rector of St. Augustine’s Church, Shep-
parton, just because the lady in the case is his
deceased wife’s sister. But‘he has braved the
storm, and on February 21 he married her. She
was Miss Agnes McCrae Hyndman, daughter of
a Kvneton bank manager. His younger brother,
another Herring, of Daylesford, was the accom-
plice who tied the knot.
The young German officer killed at Ponape,
in the Caroline Islands, whom the daily paper
reports of last week did not name, turns out to be
Lieutenant Otto Erhard, whose father is a well-
known Sydney merchant. He was shot, along
with other members of a naval party from the
warship Corinoran who had landed to keep order
among the natives. Young Erhard, an only son,
was expected in Sydney within a few weeks, and
great preparatiaus had been made for his home-
coming after 10 years’ absence.
“Jack” Virgo, the best-known Y.M.C. A.
man in the Southern Hemisphere, quits the
general secretaryship of the Sydney Good Young
Men to take a similar billet in London—which is,
in its way, something large in promotion and a
good advt. for the Commonwealth. Virgo, who
started his battles in Adelaide, is an enthusiastic
Australian, and the man who reckons that he will
talk nothing but religion in London doesn’t know
John J. Six or eight years ago, when he was
appointed secretary of the Sydney society, it was
run by old gentlemen who were mostly as
stodgy as they were moral. In the first 24 hours
he observed that a dreadful red-covered paper
wasn’t on the premises ; within the next 24 hours
he was around battling for a cheap supply. Before
he took to running Young Men Societies he was
an accountant; but even in those days he always
had to be organising something or other.
Another ex-coalminer comes into an im-
portant public position. J. Lomas succeeds
the brilliant Edward Tregear as head of the
Maoriland Labor Department. Lomas, like his
predecessor, is a Cornishman, and about 25 years
ago was battling for a crust in the mines of the
West Coast. Thereabouts he dived into the
trades union movement, and with J. A. Millar,
now the Minister in charge of his depart-
ment, was a member of the Central Committee
1 f l u 6 e,| d °f the big maritime strike
ot 1890—the strike which gave industrial arbitra-
tion its first leg-up. It was W. B. Reeves who
gave Lomas his chance in the Labor Department,
and much good advice in addition. The new man
has not Tregear’s capacity to flay, in print, oppo-
nents of the administration of the Labor Depart-
ment—which will be a great relief to large quan-
tities of I at —but he has a plentiful supply both
ot horse sense and of elephant tact.
A BURNING QUESTION.
BROWN : " No, I don’t hold with cremation.
What say you, Smith?”
SMITH : “ The same. Sounds to me too much like
buying carly-door tickets.”
Felix Gade, of London, the new professor
of the violin at the Melbourne Uni. Conserva-
torium, is the son of Neils Gade, an English
painter of minor distinction. lie received his
musical polish under Ysaye, the Belgian virtuoso,
after he had gone through the Brussels Conserva-
torium and fiddled industriously in the orchestra
at Covent Garden. Later on, he gave recitals in
Switzerland, and started a series of Sunday con-
certs in the staid old city of Edinburgh. He
seems quite capable of causing a flutter in Mel-
bourne musical circles.
You strike them 24 carat up North.
Judge Herbert, 24 carat himself, made off to
Thursday Island when Government Administrator
Stauiforth Smith and his party looked like lost in
the most savage part of Papua. The Judge was
looking for boats suitable for search parties. He
sighted one that seemed the thing. Would the
boss hire it to him ? No ; he wanted it himself.
Wouldn’t a good price tempt him? No; didn’t
he say he wanted it! Well, would he sell it?
“No ; I want it. . . But here—what d’ you want
it for?” Herbert told him. “ Oh-h-h ! Here,
send her back when you’re done with her.
The crew’s pretty good—take them too. Price ?
What the * * you talking about ? Just send the
outfit back when you’ve done with it. . . Here, can
Ido anything for you myself?” Australia will
probably yet thank its stars that that’s the sort
the enemy will have to argue with first when the
Great Trouble comes.
Baroness Vaughan, formerly attached to
the King of the Belgians, petitions for a divorce
from M. Emanuel Durieu. Evidently, the brilliant
but faded lady has tired of her placid, bourgeois
husband. She married him in unusual circum-
stances at Arrouvilie, France, on August 18 last.
The time was about 6.30 in the morning, and the
speed of the wedding was refreshing. The pair
rushed through the civil ceremony at the local
Town Hall, flew through the religious service at a
neighboring church, and were on their way back
to the Chateau de Balincourt 16 minutes after
they had first entered the town. The lady set
down her age at the marriage as 27 —presumably
there wasn’t time to say it was more. Incident-
ally, Durieu adopted her semi-royal children, the
Counts da Ravenstein and de Tervueren, whose
birth-certificates bear the assertion, “Pere non
denommd.” Which, broadly translated, means,
“Father unmentionable.” It was true —Leopold
of Belgium was unmentionable.
In one respect Australia had bad luck when
its baby iron and steel industry passed from Wil-
liam Sand ford to the Hoskins firm. Sandford
lias leanings towards Socialism, and, after he had
given his workmen all he would like to give
them, there wouldn’t be much left for himself.
To the two Hoskins brothers Labor unions
are red rags, and the mere mention of
Socialism makes them jump. There probably
isn’t a greater mechanical genius in Australia
than George Hoskins; and, if only he knew how
to handle men as he knows how to handle
machines, Australia could afford to pay him
£20,000 a year to put the steel industry on its
legs. But he doesn’t, and neither does his brother
Charles ; and the other director, John Kirkland,
only looks in when the financial ahspect has to be
considered. So the baby industry has to pursue
a bumpy course over strikes and lock-outs. And
bumps are not good for infants.
The lawyers are heaving into the row
between South Aus. and Victoria, and each heave
is priced at a remarkable sum. It is stated that
the total amount marked on the briefs of the con-
tending counsel is £1750, and that the refreshers
aggregate £2OO a day, and that one way and
another the wrangle is costing £7OO per diem.
And while all this money is burning in the sacred
cause of State Mites, there seems to be a doubt
about the existence of the 141st meridian of east
longitude, the alleged boundary between the
States of Weary and Verran ; and a dark sus-
picion has arisen that the Melbourne Tramway
Co. is secretly using it as a cable.
J. A. Walsh, a local Gent One, is the
. Denham candidate for the vacancy at Rock-
\ hampton, vice W. Kidston. Parson Adam-
son, who formerly represented Maryborough,
but didn’t go up at last election, runs in
the Labor interest. He was just about the
most effective speaker in the one Parlia-
ment in which he sat. Of late, he has been
tending the flock of the Ann-street (Bris-
bane) Scotchbyterian Church—the kirk
which the General Assembly tried to hunt
poor old Dr. Frackelton out of. For
Erioggera, Hawthorn’s old seat, the can-
didates are Trout (Government) and
Lloyd (Labor). The Laborites wanted
John Huxham, who sat for Brisbane
South in the last Assembly, to oppose
Trout, buthe preferred to wait for a chance at
his old constituency.
A tale of sticking-at-it :
Davy Jones, marine undertaker, completed a long-
standing- plot against one Patterson, of Maoriland, re-
cently. Patterson was a sailor who for 30 years had re-
fused to have any truck with Jones, and in 1880 shook
the spray of the sea off his feet and settled down ashore.
But Jones wasn’t done with him by a long way. He used
to go along to Patterson’s place, and shake hands with him
in the long watches of the night, and remind him of the
good times they used to have together when the naked,
white morning star was swinging to the croon of a sway-
ing spar, until Patterson, at the age of 66, locked the
door of his shanty and shipped as mate of the schooner
Jessie Niccol, sailing from the Bluff to the Macquarie
Islands. And then the gleeful D. Jones, sniffing his
chance at last, rose up one night and thrashed the sea
with a coffin-lid till it became infuriated, and the schooner
was smashed to smithereens. Patterson was one of
three who were drowned. The persistent undertaker had
got him for keeps.
In these days ex-Prime Minister J. C.
Watson spends most of his time preparing for the
daily Labor paper that is to come some day to
Sydney. Talking, a few days back, to the Amal-
gamated Railway and Tramway Service Associa-
tion and making an appeal for financial backing,
lie said the minimum required was £lOO,OOO, and
they didn’t want to start with less, even if they had
to wait for a few years. The A.W.U. has guar-
anteed to take up a minimum of £30,000 worth
of shares, and £70,000 worth are available to out-
side unions. No non-union capital will be
accepted, although it has been offered by several
commercial men. The first levy of the A.W.U.
brought in £25,000, which lifted the bank account
to £27,000. Another £25,000 is expected from the
second year’s levy, while levies so far assured
from other unions, will total about £lB,OOO. Wat-
son hasn’t accepted any position in connection
with the paper that is to be ; his concern, so far,
is only to get the money to found it.
An heroic poem written by the late Gari-
baldi has been unearthed and issued. The poem
is in 30 cantos, and was produced at Caprera in
18G2. Twenty-nine of the cantos are new to the
world, but one, the lltli, suffered early publicity.
Originally, it was given to the municipality of
Ravenna by the poet himself. His instructions
were that the proceeds from its sale should he em-
ployed in preserving a hut where his wife, Anita,
died during his flight from the Austrians. The
subject of the poem is, of course, more political
than personal. The largest passages are on
Italian liberty, delivered in claps and rumbles of
epical thunder, while other passages deal with
blood and battles, and nearly ignite the reader
with their patriotic heat.
NO FOREIGNERS PERMITTED.
“ Mine tear friendt, ’dis yoost dis. Ve moost
yeep dis pyoodiful youndry vor le Inklish
zbeaking beobles.”
Dr. Black, Chemistry Professor at Otago
University (M.L.), retii es after 40 years’ strenuous
service. He wrote a good, practical book on
chemistry years ago; and, besides making great
efforts to develop a tin industry on Stewart Island,
be has done a lot of useful work in lecturing on
practical chemistry to miners in the backblocks of
Otago and Westland,
“PERSONAL SERVICE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The High Commissioner has disapproved of a suggestion
that those who go to the Coronation in an official capacity
should be allotted some “special service” to perform.
“ I agree with him,” said Mr. Fisher; “ I do not know
what personal service the overseas representatives could
perform.” —Demulcent News Item.
Why not ? We fail to see the point, completely ;
Why should they not, for once, ignore the Norm,
And let our delegation, neatly, featly,
Some “special service” to the King perform?
Great Reid himself, tricked out in robes of beauty,
Might lead the way ; ’twould be a fitting thing ;
And stern and loyal at the post of Duty
Devour a special meal to save the King!
And Bruce Smith, Sydney’s Admirable Crichton,
Could gaze upon the scene de haut en bas —
Among minnows a Deportmental Triton !
To save George from a possible faux pas.
And when the day was over, and the orgy
Had thinned to drunks who sang and cheered and
wept,
Jack Murray could bemuse a wakeful Georgia
With imitations of a Man Who Slept!
And Jim McGowen, seated at the banquet
With saturnine, uncompromising phiz—
Grave as a Choctaw chieftain in his blanket—
Could teach George to look wiser than he is i
Indeed, there is no end of service waiting
To be performed with loyalty and care,
And one, the greatest, I’m not wrong in stating,
Would be for all our ceremony-hating
Australians to remain so, over there !
N.S.W.
PETRONIUS EARUITER.


Every dog has its day, but the
nights are reserved for the cats
and
GEM OF THE EAST
CIGARS.
“GEM OF THE EAST” CIGARS are obtainable from all
the leading tobacconists, in all the favorite Manila shapes.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
Circular Quay (East), Sydney ; and 34 Queen Street,, Melbourne,
specialise in Ljght Tramway Material, Gas Engines and Suction Gas
Plants* “Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines, etc.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
1C “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Sydney):—
Bonus to
Net Dividend Shareholders Re-
Dec., Profit. (12J p.c.). (in shares). serves.
‘906 .. £56,086
1907 .. £40,885 £16,638 £16,900 63,433
1908 .. 36,946 18,750 15,000 66,629
1909 .. 44,074 20,625 16,500 73,578
1910 .. 50,374 22,687 18,150 83,115
This co. was formed in 1884, and, like most infant news-
papers, the sheet it was nursing' had a pretty hard fight.
But it secured very fine financial management; and,
though it should, of course, have wilted after Federa-
tion handed the N. S. Wales lamb over to the Vic-
torian wolf, it started instead to forge ahead
at a great rate. Last year, no doubt owing to the devas-
tations of Labor Governments and the imminence of the
further land-tax disaster, it passed the £50,000 mark in
the matter of profits. Now, £50,000 was its total amount
of capital for many years, nor has any more been actually
put into the concern ; so that the net profit last year ex-
ceeded 100 per cent, on the actually paid capital. Of
course, the balance-sheet nowadays shows much more
than £50,000 of capital ; and the table at the head of these
remarks explains how the increase has been achieved,
btill, as the table goes back only four years, a further
little compilation is added to show the growth of capital
(the figures for some of the earlier terms are only ap-
proximate ; but they are near enough for all practical
purposes):—
!897 £50,000 | 1905 £llO,OOO
1898 57,500 1906 120,000
1899 60,100 I 1907 133,100
1900 66,100 11908 150,000
1901.. ~ .. 66,100 1909 165 000
1902 75,000 I 1910 181,500
1903 85,000 11911 199,650
1904 100,000 |
Meantime the dividend has been 12J percent. But to
the man who got in in 1897, or previously, the!2Jper
cent, is obviously now a tiny fraction under 50 per cent.,
since he now has four shares for every one he then held.
And if he now thinks he has enough shares he can sell his
bonus shares at a premium of 650 per cent. That is to
say, the £lO shares are worth £65. So a man who came
in when the capital was £50,000 would this year draw 50
per cent, on his investment, and then could if he chose
sell his bonus shares at a price that would give him
another 215 per cent, on his original bargain. It is
a sweet morsel for those who got in early. Those who
get in now are willing to pay a price which, on last year's
figures, shows a return of just under 3£ per cent, if you
take the bonus shares to be worth par. But they are
worth 61 times more than par. So, taking shares at £6O,
we get this:—
Dividend £22,687
Market value of bonus shares .. 108,900
Total £131,587
On last year’s 18,150 shares that was 7£ per cent. on market
value. For investment purposes—for the man, that is, who
doesn’t propose to sell the bonus shares—things wouldn’t
work out that way. What he gets is a dividend equal to
just under 2 per cent., and a bonus of just over 1£ per
cent. ; but on that bonus he is liable to draw 12£ per
cent, in future divs. plus a proportion of bonus shares.
Going back to the published accounts, the re-
serves, as shown above, total £83,115. But on top of
that there is a Building Sinking Fund, £20,972. Evidently
this is to wipe out the capital cost of the office premises—
'3l,669. This sinking fund is in cash. There is also a
King-street freehold (£28,020). What may be called the
cash position has moved in three years as follows :
1907. 1910.
Liquid assets .. ~ £132,751 £204,892
Liabilities .. .. 6,023 13,318
Surplus .. £126,728 £191,574
In three years the co.; after paying the 12£ percent, on
the capital, original and watered, and after paying for all
additions to stock, machinery, etc., has thus added
£64,846 to its surplus of liquid assets. Under the circum-
stances Thk Bulletin implores Dr. Ward and the Telk-
oraph’s friend, Mr. Bruce Smith, to take a more cheerful
view of things.
* * * *
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Melbourne):
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. rerves. serves.
1899 .. £1176 4 p.e. =£Boo £376 £923
1900 .. 1926 4J „ „ 900 £457 569 1,492
1901 .. 1905 5„ „ 1000 905 2,397
1902 ... 1818 5„ „ 1000 715 103 2,500
1903 .. 1464 4„ „ 800 664 3,164
Unclaimed dividends.. .. 20 3,184
1904 .. 1517 4 p.c. = 800 476 241 3,425
1905 .. 1537 4 „ „ 800 737 4,162
1906 .. 1665 4 „ „ 800 865 5,027
1907 .. 2792 5„ „ 1000 1792 6,819
1908 .. 1895 5„ „ 1000 895 7,714
1909.. 3568 8£„ ~1700 1868 9,582
1910.. 4114 10J„ ~2100 53 1961 11,543
The directors’ report says that there was a net profit on
trading of £4222. At the beginning of the co.’s year,
however, £lOB was paid as a bonus to employees ; and
that amount has been deducted in the table. Also, £53
is shown as written off against wear and tear. Besides
that, though, £l2OO is charged to Profit and Loss
for furniture and machinery depreciation ; and
apparently that money has gone into replace-
ments. The co. used to have a capital of £40,000
and a mortgage debt of about £25,000. Then came
the collapse of the boom, and when the directors
looked for the £65,000, representing capital and
mortgage debt, it wasn’t there. In such circumstances
it isn’t any use looking to the mortgagee and expecting
him to forego his share or part of it. He is willing to
accept comparatively low interest; if the shareholders
can make more out of his money, they can have it in
return for their guaranteeing his principal. Share-
holders, therefore, had no right to complain when
their own capital was written down from £40,000
to £20,000 while the mortgage debt remained as
good as new. Then began a struggle to work down the
mortgage and the consequent interest; and by December
31 last the debt had been reduced to £15,987. That alone
means a saving of £4OO a year. However, that and more
than that saving is absorbed by the increased dividend
paid during the past few years. The directors have been
incited to pay the extra sum by the fine results lately
shown on trading. Last year’s net profits were a shade
over 20 per cent, on the reduced capital. Even so, while
there is a debt of £20,000, which calls for interest
no matter how bad times may be and no
matter what disaster may strike the co., the directors
might well have stopped at alO per cent. div. Their one
possible defence is that 2 per cent, is a special bonus, and
will not be repeated unless the co. strikes an equally good
year. Prospects are said to be excellent. “ For some years
past the Coffee Palace has always been full at the usual
busy season, but now customers are being turned away at
normally quiet times. In view of this it is proposed to
submit a proposal for an extension of buildings to be
erected upon the freehold property in Little Collins-
street ’’—the latter presumably a patch of ground bought
next to the original block. This means more borrowing,
no doubt, and more expenditure at a time when prices
for almost everything are very high. Later on, when
boom conditions have passed, the building will probably
be worth a good deal less than it will cost now ; and for
that reason it ought to show large profit at the outset,
and a big proportion of that profit should be laid by, to
be used presently, if need be, in writing down the value
of the building. The same rule applies to a thousand
other new premises besides this one which the Victoria
Coffee Palace Co. contemplates building.
» * * *
Howard Smith and Co., Ltd.
Dividends. Depreciation,
(5 p.c. pref., etc., pro-
Dec., Profit. 10 p.c. ord.). vided for. Deficit.
1901 .. £57,734 £18,782 £20,068 £21,716
1902 .. 50,435 28,864 19,626 19,771
1903 .. 51,443 29,133 19,536 16,997
1904 .. 52,418 29,721 20,466 14,766
Reserves.
1905 .. |p 7,3 if 30 334 22,436 \ 16 993
\ Profit on sale of wharf .. 2i,181J ’
1906 .. 57,488 30,792 25,728 17,961
1907 .. 65,827 31,814 33,785 18,189
(5 p.c. pref.,
15 p.c. ord.).
1908 .. 82,608 47,602 22,538 30,657
1909 .. 137,066 50,000 81,839 35,884
1910 .. 123,543 50,000 62,358 47,069
That isn’t a satisfactory table. In fact, no satisfactory
table could possibly be constructed from the materials
to be dredged out of this co.'s published balance-
sheet. The reserves shown above are £47,069, whereas
it is more likely, if the truth were known, that
the co.’s actual reserves are £470,690. There is a
column, it will be noted, headed “Depreciation,
etc., provided for.” The “etc.” is especially worth
noting. The amounts shown thereunder are the yearly
additions to what the balance-sheet describes as a “ fund
for depreciation of steamers, plant, and shares in other
cos., replacements, renewals, insurance, equalisation of
dividends and contingencies.” Clearly, more or less of
the money dropped into this fund is as much profit as
anything can be—the money', for example, that is put
aside for the equalisation of dividends. For the past
year the Profit and Loss account professes that the profit
was £61,185; the other £62,358 was dropped into the
fund. There is no way of telling how much of the
latter amount is also true profit and how much ought to he
written off to cover depreciation. Steamers and plant
stand in the books at £653,679 (cost). A fair depreciation
allowance would probably be 4 per cent. =£26,147. That
would allow £36,211 to be added to net profits, bringing-
them to £97,396 for the year. From that a trifle may
have to be deducted by way of premium on so much of
the insurance as the co. itself undertakes ; and that pro-
bably isn’t much. Moreover, while the co. demon-
stratively writes off £62,358 for depreciation, etc.
—with much stress on the etc. —it probably writes
off something without making any demonstration
whatever. Among the assets are shares in other cos.,
at cost, £2*16,913 ; at valuation, £50,000. It would be quite
possible for the management to take so gloomy a view of
some of these assets that, supposing- the co. bought
£15,000 worth of shares last year, it wouldn’t add the
£15,000 to the total, but would simply write off a corre-
sponding amount from the shares previously held. In
fact, an entry of this kind allows almost any amount of
profit to be stuffed away—if it’s there to stuff away.
Three or four years ago the form of the pub-
lished accounts was alter' Since then the additions to
the fund previously menuo.ied with disrespect have been
as follows :
Transferred to Unexplained Total
Fund from P. Additions of
and L. Account. to Fund. Fund.
1905 .. £22,436 £219,731
1906 .. 24,365 £31,323 275,419
Leasehold and Share Depreciation
Fund (£5824) thrown into the
heap , .. 281,243
1907 .. 33,785 27,688 342,716
1908 .. 22,538 365,254
1909 .. 81,839 447,093
1910 .. 62,358 509,451
How much of that fund is genuine reserve, and how much
is a mere set-off against rust, and dry-rot, and the other
ills that ships are heir to, this paper hasn’t a strong
enough notion to hang even an inspiration upon. But
perhaps this may suggest something:—
1905. 1909. 1910.
Liquid assets (including
stores).. .. .. £269,438 £397,583 £497,071
Liabilities 62,675 58,869 81,228
Surplus .. £216,763 £338,714 £415,843
And, to carry the matter a step farther :
Net increase in liquid surplus £199,080
Less new capital 91,769
Net increase from trading £107,311
That is in five years. Still that doesn’t bring us to
finality. There are other things to consider. In the first
place, have the additions made to the fleet, plant, etc.,
counterbalanced the depreciation ? If they have, and if
the other assets are valued on the same basis as they
were five years ago, then the co. has made a profit of
£107,311 in excess of the dividends. There are a lot of
“ ifs ’’ about this. Still, on general principles, The Bul-
letin doesn’t believe that the fleet is worth anything less
than it was five years ago. It is more likely to be worth
more.
One other comparison :
1901 AbSETS i9OB. 1909. 1910.
Goodwill.. .. £40,000 Nil Nil Nil
Real estate .. 22,890 £4,654 £5,162 £7,307
Leasehold .. 22,779 10,129 10,415 4,691
Steamers, etc. .. 271,901 654,698 653,617 653,679
Shares .. .. 23,744 196,681 253,253 266,913
Stores .. .. 31,200 29,238 16,059 31,886
Liquid assets .. 101,134 159,897 128,274 198,272
Liabilities.
Sundries .. 134,560 58,869 81,228
Shares, £266,913. Largely, no doubt, they are coal-
mining interests. This combination of coal-mine owner
and inter-State steamship-carrier produces a strong
punch.
The future? First, most of the shares in the
public’s hands are ordinaries. The capital is £500,000,
in an equal number of pref. and ordinary shares. The
preference is 5 per cent, cumulative ; and the dividend
stops at 5 per cent. —which is very pleasant for ordinaries
when times are good and money can earn a great deal
more than 5 per cent. The directors’ report says the
dividend for the year is “10 per cent, on the co.’s
capital.” It is a mere unmentioned detail that one half
got 5 per cent, and the other 15 per cent. Still, though
the co. has to earn £12,500 before the ordinaries can get
a bite, the mortgage isn’t serious enough to be worth
worrying about now, because of the size to which the
reserves have grown. For the rest, there is the possi-
bility of (1) competition, and (2) Government regulation.
The latter seems to be much more likely than the former;
that the cos. will start clawing at one another again is
highly improbable. And it ought to be admitted at once
that the public gets a far better service than it did in the
days of the clawing.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Dividends on Added Nominal
Gross Capital to Re- Re-
Profits. Actually Paid, serves. serves.
Dec., 1903.. £7,885 8 p.c. =£3,000 £4885 £113,686
June, 1904.. 12,881 12 „„ 4,500 8381 122,067
£47,067 Reserves written off, £75,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1904.. 13,374 10 p.c. = 3,750 9624 9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 „ „ 3,750 7017 16,641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 10 „ „ 3,750 5017 21,658
June, 1906.. 13,674 30 ~,, 11,250 2424 24,082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 10 „ „ 3,750 5437 29,519
June, 1907.. 18,202 30 ~,, 11,250 6952 36,471
Dec., 1907.. 13,117 15 ~ ~ 5,625 7492 43,963
June, 1908... 15,899 20 ~ „ 7,500 8399 52,362
Dec., 1908.. 14,008 16 „ „ 7,500 6508 58,870
June, 1909.. 13,405 144,,,, 6,800 6605 65,475
Dec., 1909.. 13,869 14J ~ „ 6,800 7069 72,544
June, 1910.. 15,488 144,,,, 6,800 8688 81,232
Dec., 1910.. 16,749 16 „ „ 7,650 9099 90,331
The co. was formed in 1895 to take over three inter-State
and coastal shipping businesses —Reid’s, Mclntyre’s and
Deane’s. Things were in a poor way then. Australia had
been suffering from over-borrowing, droughts, Freetrade
politicians, rabbits, low prices and other crimes and mis-
fortunes ; and the co., not being too sure of the future,
took the assets in at a low valuation. Improve-
ment came very slowly, until, with Federation and the
removal of border duties, this and other shipping cos.
saw a fine time ahead, given three things—(l) the restric-
tion of competition, (2) fair harvests and prices, and (3) a
stiff protective duty against the foreigner. To secure
the first result the Steamship Owners’ Federation was
formed. For some reason or other this co. didn’t join
the combine, ring, honorable understanding, or whatever
it was and is; on the other hand, there has apparently
been no enmity between this co. and the Owners’
Federation. Possibly the Federation had an idea
that, in case anybody should mention monopoly, it
would be a good thing to be able to point
to a little chap outside and say—“ Monopoly! Rub-
bish 1 Why, that fellow’s in competition with us.’’
Still the competition hasn’t been at all serious ; and by
1904 this eo. was in a position to double the original capi-
tal by transferring £75,000 from profits—not a bad result
after 11 years’ work, especially as divs. had been paid
regularly. Whether the £75,000 was all profit from
working isn’t clear. As mentioned just now', the assets
were originally taken in at a low valuation, and before
the reconstruction there was a re-valuation, so that some
of the assets may have been written up. Later on
£20,000 more was got in by the issue of some more £lO
shares. The capital is thus £170,000. On that amount
the last half-year’s div. is at the rate of 9 per cent, per
annum.
The reserves, it will be seen, are described as
nominal. That is because some at least of the assets are
taken in at cost. Apparently steamships are among
the assets thus dealt with, though the baiance-sheet is,
perhaps unintentionally, uncertain on the point. If
depreciation has not been allowed for, then, of
course, it must come off the profits shown
above. There seems no doubt at all that the
surplus, after paying dividend, is quite ample. The
average lay-by for the past six years has been £13,450 ;
and on the mean book-value of all shrinkable assets this
amounts to about 7£ per cent, per annum, and probably 4
percent, would more than cover depreciation. The £80,707
of revenue in excess of earnings for the six years has all
gone into steamships, etc., works and premises ; the
lumped item representing these things has sprinted from
£127,118 as at December, 1904, to £237,063 as at Decem-
ber, 1910. Meantime, certainly, £20,000 of new capital
has been got in. The rest hasn’t been all undivided pro-
fit; later on some of it may—no doubt will—have to be
written off in a lump, just as £47,067 was written off in
1904. But, even so, the progress of the co. since the re-
construction has been very rapid, and much strength has
been added to its position.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits, Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £3408 6 p.c. = £3402 £6 £4,790
June, 1904 .. 3917 6 „ „ 3402 515 5,305
Dec., 1904 .. 3920 6 ~ ~ 3402 518 5,823
June, 1905 .. 4606 6 ~ ~ 3402 1204 7,027
Dec., 1905 .. 3472 6 ~ ~ 3402 70 7,097
June, 1906.. 4266 6 ~ ~ 3402 864 7,961
Dec., 1906 .. 3497 6 ~ ~ 3402 95 8,056
June, 1907 .. 4734 6,, „ 3402 1332 9,388
Dec., 1907 .. 3637 6 „ ~ 3402 235 9,623
June, 1908 .. 4698 6 „ „ 3402 1296 10,919
Dec., 1908 .. 3298 6,, ~ 3402 10,815
June, 1909 .. 3823 6 „ ~ 3402 421 11,236
Dec., 1909 .. 3092 6 ~ ~ 3442 10,886
June, 1910.. 4871 6 ~ „ 3442 1429 12,315
Dec., 1910 .. 7135 6 „ „ 3402 3733 16,048
That extra profit drops into the accounts in the shape of
a Property Reserve, no doubt profit made on a sale. This
new reserve has £3666 to credit; so, apart from that
amount, the half-year’s profit was £3469, which is no
better nor worse than the average. The average isn’t
very good, for several reasons. The co. has heavy debts ;
arid a considerable part, not only of those debts, but also
of the capital, is represented by the unproductive Cascade
estate. This shows the principal figures and their move-
ments since June, 1902, when the capital was reduced
and the assets written down :
Liabilities.
1902. 1910.
Mortgages and fixed deposits .. ..£84,507 £90,361
Overdrafts, etc. 22,631 25,726
Assets.
Freeholds, hotels, premises, etc. ..170,013 180,409
Stock and plant .. 37,955 34,459
Book debts and advances.. .. .. 13,828 21,302
Cash and liquid assets 142 7,873
Total liabilities are thus £116,087 as against £107,138
seven and a half years ago. Meantime, however, there
has been an accumulation of £15,205 of liquid and semi-
liquid assets, including about £7OOO worth of the co.’s own
debentures, issued on the security of the Cascade estate.
In the same period freeholds (hotels, etc.) have also been
added to by just over £lO,OOO. On figures, therefore, the co.
has been doing pretty well. Whether the co.’s properties
are depreciating, and (if so) whether that depreciation is
being allowed for, are matters which can’t be told
by looking at the accounts. “Sales [Of beerj, both
locally and on the mainland, have continued to increase,
and the prospects for the present period are of a cheering
character.” Still the growth is slow. Ten years ago the
Profit and Loss account credited the brewery (July-Dee.,
1900) with £9254 ; for the past six months the total was
£lO,lOB. Even Hobart won’t charge anybody with
furious driving if he doesn’t go faster than that.
* * * *
The Warwick Has, Light, Power and Coal
Co. (Warwick, Q.): —
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1905.. 5 p.c. = £394 £4O £235
June, 1906 .. £558 5,, ~ 394 100 £64 299
Dec., 1906.. 517 5,, ~ 394 100 23 322
June, 1907.. 624 5,, ~ 394 150 80 402
Dec., 1907.. 572 5,, ~ 394 130 48 450
June, 1908.. 642 5„ „ 394 171 77 527
Dec., 1908 ..584 5„ ~ 394 140 50 577
June, 1909 .. 662 5 ~ ~ 394 164 104 681
Dec., 1909.. 693 5 ~ ~ 394 150 149 830
June, 1910.. 677 5,, ~ 394 200 83 913
Dec., 1910 .. 609 5„ „ 394 150 65 978
The shrinkage in profits follows on a reduction in price,
and is probably only temporary. The co. is free from
debt; moreover, it makes what looks like a reasonable
allowance for depreciation, and, as usual, invests that
money in plant and main extensions, which then, of
course, don’t figure in the accounts. Four years ago,
with £14,770 of capital invested in plant, mains, etc., the
gas revenue was £1214; now with only £412 more in-
vested, the revenue is £1738. The growth of business
seems, therefore, to be quite satisfactory ; so far as one
can judge, wear and tear is well provided for ; the divid-
end is legitimately earned, and the reserves are genuine.
* * * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1903 ..£1248 10 p.c. =£7so £498 £4,368
Dec., 1903 .. 1529 10 „ „ 750 779 5,147
June, 1904 .. 1268 10 „,, 750 518 5,665
Dec., 1904 .. 1503 10 ~ ~ 750 753 6,418
June, 1905 .. 1547 10 ~ ~ 750 797 7,215
Dec., 1905 ..1834 12 „ „ 900 934 8,149
June, 1906 .. 1773 10 ~ ~ 750 1023 9,172
Dec., 1906 .. 1858 12 ~ ~ 900 958 10,130
June, 1907 .. 1758 10 ~ ~ 750 1008 11,138
Dec., 1907 .. 1940 12 ~ ~ 900 1040 12,178
June, 1908 .. 1980 10 ~ ~ 750 1230 13,408
Dec., 1908 .. 1957 12 „,, 900 1057 14,465
June, 1909 .. 1507 10 ~ ~ 750 757 15,222
Dec., 1909 .. 1421 12 ~ ~ 900 521 15,743
June, 1910 .. 1351 10 ~ ~ 750 601 16,344
Dec., 1910 .. 1913 12 „,, 900 1013 17,357
This co. has at present a capital £15,000 in 20,000 shares
of £2 10s. paid to 15s. ; and the directors a while ago said
they intended to capitalise £5OOO when there was that
amount accumulated at credit of Profit and Loss. After
making'the present appropriations there will be £2357
left in the stocking ; and a couple of years should see the
directors proposal completed. On this point, by the
way, cos. that are in the habit of transferring reserves to
capital might profitably take their lawyers’ opinion.
pretty general practice is to build up a reserve fund,
and then tap that barrel, whereas, according to some
counsel who have been consulted, the safe thing is to
transfer from Profit and Loss, even though the money
has first to be transferred from a reserve to make up the
required amount. The profits of the Ballarat Co. are a
bit erratic; but in general the business is highly profit-
able, and the position very solid. Capital and reserves
combined last year earned £lO 12s. 4d. per cent., which is
particularly gorgeous when it is considered that (1) the
co. has no other people’s money at risk, which is to say
it has backed nobody else’s bill; and (2) it has all its
capital and two thirds of its reserves in cash or public
securities.
Scantlebury has got his Amalgamated Hill End
on the market at last. When the co. is floated and work
is commenced an old dream of his will be in a fair way to
be fulfilled. Scantlebury is the man who “invented”
the “ Wild Cat Column ” and for some years ran it. The
original idea was to confine it to mining, which was
Scantlebury’s specialty. To get the column going be
visited and revisited almost every mining field in Aus-
tralia. That was over 20 years ago. Of all the properties
in the continent there were two whose condition
in those days made him long for a hundred
thousand or so. One was the Great Cobar, the
other Hawkins Hill at Hill End, both in N. S. Wales.
What happened to Cobar most people know. “ The syn-
dicate ” got it, and, after making a fortune for the Long-
worths, A. J. Gould, and one or two others, sold it for
half a million or so. Hill End was a tougher proposition.
The trouble in this case was that there were dozens of
small blocks, some of them with as little as 13ft. on the
reef. The holders had scattered to the four winds rsome
had died and their representatives had to be hunted up
on the faintest clues. But Scantlebury, having finally
quitted journalism 10 years ago, set himself to the
long job, and a few months ago finished the busi-
ness. Now he talks to the public. The total
production from the claims now amalgamated
is put at from £2,000,000 to £3,000,000. Yet mining
stopped at 400 ft. A claim with anytliing from 13ft. to
30ft. on the reef wasn’t likely to make deep shaft-sinking
pay, even if the stuff went 3oz. to the ton. “Had the
same conditions existed in Victoria and Queensland in
respect to the size of original quartz claims, Ben-
digo, Ballarat, Charters Towers and Gvmpie would to-
day be derelicts too,” the prospectus say's. “ These fields
were started with larger areas ; they were continued and
saved from collapse by amalgamation and other opera-
tions in unison, and prospered.” Government Geologist
Pittman says : “ There can be no doubt that the Hawkins
Hill deposits are among- the most promising in the State,
and the prospect of obtaining payable gold at a depth
are perhaps better there than in any other goldfield in
N. S. Wales.” With the prospectus Scantlebury issues a
personal “ letter to investors” ; and as there is something
romantic about the whole business, it is safe to say that
thousands will read the literature who never read more
than one prospectus before in their lives.
After writing off £1167 to cover depreciation,
Harden (N.S.W.) showed a loss of £2086 for the half-year.
Or, charging up everything that was spent on develop-
ment, the loss was £3278j The practice of this co. with
regard to development costs is to charge up the expendi-
ture to capital and not to revenue account, and then to
debit revenue account with ss. per ton. The total costs
for the half-year were £1 17s. sd. per ton. Mining ran to
17s. sd. and pumping to another 9s. 2d. ; but an
electrically-driven plant is expected to be at work
in April, and that should bite a bit off the
burdensome 9s. 2d. Other costs have been high
owing- to the shortage of ore reserves, which also meant
running the mill short time. The total reserves at the
end of the half-year were 9551 tons, worth 525. lOd. per
ton ; the 4218 tons milled during the past term were
worth 395. 6d., of which 365. 3d. was recovered. The
eastern part of the mine has proved very disappointing
at the bottom level; but there is better promise towards
and in the recently acquired Harden Central. Says the
manager: “ Considerable makes of quartz are known to
exist in these leases, but the values are uncertain. How-
ever, it is hoped that large quantities of payable ore will
be disclosed during the ensuing half-year.” In cash the
co. had only £558 left on Dec. 31; but recent erushings
have added a trifle to that.
The Zinc Corporation, Broken Hill, has been
trying very hard of late not to slip down hill too fast.
On selected feed—and what better selected feed could be
desired than the 22 per cent, zinc dump on Block 10? —
the Elmore process did rattling good work, and, with a
rising spelter market, made handsome profits for the Cor-
poration. But there came a time when the epicure had
to eat bush rations, and his appetite faded. The Elmore
process couldn’t gorge itself on coarse feed and look
pleasant at the same time. With a monthly meal of
22,000 tons of tailings such as the Zinc Corporation
can now command, profits looked like disappearing. A
mixture of inferior British tailings with poor-grade stuff
from the South was no good to the Elmore plant when
working at its highest capacity, so a process with a
greater appetite and a less sensitive palate was intro-
duced. Under efficient management the new thing
proved itself capable of the task required, and it got the
job. Faul, who recently resigned the position of assist-
ant superintendent of the Zinc Corporation, was the man
who studied the peculiarities of the Minerals Separation
process, and found it suitable to the co.’s requirements.
The fear of litigation had very little to do with the
throwing- out of the Elmore pans, though it suits the Zinc
Corporation people not to be very definite about the
matter.
* * * *
The Murex Magnetic process, a unit of which
was installed on B. H. Block 14 about 12 months ago, and
hasn’t got going properly yet, was badly in need of bigger
management. The people in London who are putting up
the money for it wanted to see results before now, and
they were inclined to jump because those results were
not forthcoming. All 8., M. and Co. want is a little en-
couragement, and they trust to the efficiency of their
staff of experts for the rest. The Murex makes a beautiful
concentrate in the first operation, and that is why it has
been so successful on low'-grade copper ore. In tackling
Block 14 ore, which is of poor grade, the company took on
a stiff and unsuitable pioposition ; and if it achieves only
very moderate success on such material, 8., M. and Co.
will be justified in giving the process a chance on the
more amenable South Blocks ore and zinciferous tailings.
Tolwong Mineral Co. (N.S.W.) has just issued
what is called an official report on the smelting. The re-
port is quite valueless. It shows metallurgically some-
thing that was already quite well known to every well-
informed amateur, and does not show what everybody—
perhaps including the Board of Directors—wants to
know, viz., costs. In brief, the (manager says: The
copper and tin have been separated; the tin has been
driven into the slags ; the arsenic has gone into the re-
covery chambers. Exactly’. But the manager does not
say where the money has gone. There are no recovery
chambers into which it can be traced, and it certainly is
not in the slags. As the directors of Tolwong apparently
cannot inform shareholders exactly where they are in
figures, the following will be quite near enough to the
mark. Taking the very best view known to date, viz.,
J. V. Vale’s report, the ore (including the picked sample
assaying 19 per cent, tin and 23’25 per cent, copper) may
probably average 4’36 per cent, tin and 6’98 per cent,
copper. In actual mining operations these values will
not be realised for any tonnage. But suppose they are.
Also, no engineer has measured the tonnage and value of
the ore available, and reliable engineers who have visited
the property say there is practically none developed.
But suppose there is some, because it is admitted there
is every appearance of it in faces here and there.
Tolwong ore, for a start, is a filthy ore. Before
considering the pay metals, it contains bismuth,
arsenic, antimony and zinc. This is a combination which
calls for penalties, as a rule. The pay metals in Tolwong
ore are tin and copper—provided they can be separated
and then turned into a marketable profipct. Tol-
wong has separated the copper from the tin. It


BETTI N CTO N
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [1
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Boiler Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesburv, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS& CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured by
Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every description of
asbestos goods, patent “ Belfry ’’ steam valves and
asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are stocked
at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, Ltd. ,
315 Kent Street, Sydney, and Beach Street, Fremantle ;
also at Victorian Agency, W. H. Lamond & Co., 328
Flinders Street, Melbourne.*
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “ Wilfle.v.” It is continuous, and con-
sists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged in a
tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The drum is
covered with a filter cloth supported on grooves on the
drum, which are connected by means of holes to the
interior to allow the liquid to be withdrawn. Through
the trunnions at the ends of the drum the vacuum pipe
passes to the interior. This pipe connects with the
interior of the drum, through which the liquid and air
are withdrawn by means of a vacuum pump. The filtered
slime is removed by a simple apparatus placed at or
below the level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly
the cake is removed the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp ready to
receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the sucking in
of air, and consequent loss of vacuum between the time
the cake is removed and a fresh one is forming. The
residual liquid in the slime cake is removed by distribu-
ting water over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing
to the fact that the filter is circular in form, it will be
seen that it is continuous in operation, and has no com-
plication of valves to get out of order ; furthermore,
work is being done continuously during the whole revolu-
tion of the filter drum. The Austral' Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* [2
* * * #
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break
lI.P. Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement ”
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant bnd vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. Janies Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney, and 581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 1 ' [3
Extract from the Saturday Review, 7th
January, 1911. “Insurance. A Colonial Mutual Depar-
ture. Policies combining life or endowment assurance
with other benefits are gradually coniing into favor.
Their popularity seems to be justified. Whj' should on?
be compelled to take out two or more policies when,
several risks can just as easily be covered under a single
contract? It was a consideration of this kind that some
short time ago impelled the Board of the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society to introduce in Australasia a com-
bined Life, Accident and Sickness policy, and as the ex
periment was attended by a most welcome increase in
new business it was recently decided to extend the issue
to the United Kingdom. There were evidently sound
reasons for the departure. Neither life nor endowment
assurance policies afford quite the full protection needed
by most persons, because no provision is made for acci-
dents or sickness that do not end fatally . . . Regarded as
a whole, this new policy possesses many attractions. It
is decidedly cheap, and will appeal to those who cannot
afford to disburse large sums yearly in the form of insur-
ance premiums.”*
WOOD PIPE is easy to lay and cheap to tran s-
port, it is also cheap to buy and is practically everlasting.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney,
will send catalogue on application.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks onhand.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangementof valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion f and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
* * * *
One of the oldest and best-known engineering
concerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company with a capital of £150,000, and Will
now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, the
governing directors being Mephan Ferguson and Robert
Shand. The head office and works are at Gordon Street,
Footscray, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Thirty years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* • *
Assayers, Mink Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
has got the copper in a matte and the tin m
slag. The copper matte it can sell, but the tin
for all money purposes is lost for ever. The slag assays.
Copper, 0-95 per cent. ;'tin, 3'56 per cent.; arsenic, 030
per cent. Apart from the fact that this tin is in an irre-
coverable form, it will be seen that for every four units of
tin in the slag there is still approximately one unit of
copper—an impossible mixture to sell, and, so tar as
known methods are concerned, impossible to operate on
commercial!!-. So far, then, all the co. has got to exist
on is the copper in the matte. Taking the average o
the ore at 6'9S per cent., and allowing that, under
present working conditions, the co. can mine the
ore, crush and calcine it, and then smelt for
£2 13s. per ton, it will cost approximately £-7
per ton of 60 per cent, matte delivered in Sydney; and
for the matte the co. will realise £26. Here then it is
up against a loss of £1 per ton of matte, assuming that
the copper ore will average 6’98 per cent., which nobody
expects that it will, but cannot say that it won t, because
apparently nothing has been proved by anybody. .
It is evident that somebody realises that the
copper cannot be worked at a profit, as, before the pre-
sent plant has treated what can be called even an
experimental tonnage, the manager recoriimends the
erection of a small blast furnace. Why a “small
furnace” if the statements concerning big tonnages
are reliable? Now that it has been officially stated
that the co. can make a profit of £l2OO per month with a
blast furnace installed, the Board can surely say how the
figure is arrived at. Tolwong report also apparently
attached importance to its arsenic production. The idea
is quite absurd. Situated geographically as Tolwong is,
it is quite safe to assert that, unless the whole of creation
decides to poison itself straight away, Tolwong will
never market at a profitable rate 250 tons of
arsenic per annum. This is no new business
to Australia. Summarised, the definite points
about Tolwong at present are: It cannot market
its copper profitably, it cannot market its tin at all, and
its arsenic is too poor in grade to even attempt to market.
It’s an improved ore body in a mining sense, and the ore
that has been mined is something that no smelter will
touch, except in very minute quantities, and then at
rates at which it will not pay Tolwong to ship. And
there are a few people who know this well.
* * * *
A note about the Canbelego (N.8.W.), from its
manager:—“The mine has a lot of low-grade ore de-
veloped, but it is no good to the co. until we have a
plant. There is also a fair quantity of high-grade ore
opened up on three sides. It is the intention to break
this ore out and have it treated at the smelting works as
soon as possible. The account sales of ore treated to date
show as follows :—By the prospector, 63 tons oxide ore
smelted for 16 tons copper ; by present company, 197 tons
sulphide ore for £B3O, or a total of 18'81 tons copper,
taken from Nos. 2 and 3 levels. The ore is good smelting,
and contains from 15 to 20 per cent, silica, and from 30
to 40 per cent. iron. The total quantity of ore treated to
date from the mine is 260 tons ; and after paying smelting
costs, freight and deductions, the full payment to the
prospector and the present company amounted to £1441.
The oxide ore returned £6ll. The average price of copper
during the treatments was £6O per ton ; the lowest price
paid for copper was £4B per ton.”
* * * *
Cosmopolitan, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), is driving
No. 3 level north and south, and opening out a reef 38in.
wide and worth 21dwt. per ton. Last month’s crushing
gave 5250 z. from 390 tons, including the estimated return
from concentrates. Battery gold may be worth almost
anything ; hence the co. should state its return in £s. d.
* * * *
A well-known mining man who recently in-
spected the Meglo Bonanza mine, in the Oroolcwell dis-
trict(N.S. W.), states that there is every likelihood of the
new field attaining considerable importance. The dis-
covery has been made in a belt of rough mountainous
country which hitherto escaped the eye of the vigilant
prospector. There has not been time to do much work
on the Bonanza block, but what has been done has re-
vealed a strong lode carrying high values in silver, gold,
lead and copper. The lode is very persistent, being trace-
able on the surface for over a mile in length. A bulk
parcel of five tons of ore is, at time of writing, at Cockle
Creek works awaiting sampling and assaying.
Great Boulder (W.A.) has once more struck an
apparently payable zone at depth. What with a con-
traction of ore widths and a gradual snuffing out of
values at each successive level below 2200 ft., the mine
appeared to be on its death-bed, and the market slumped
accordingly. However, in stabbing the country at 2800 ft.
with a drill, two new makes of ore were struck ; and
though both are narrow, they are rich. As a result,
shareholders’ faith in the future has again been made
whole, or, at any rate, patched up. The least satisfactory
feature about the new finds, from Boulder’s point of
view, is that one vein is on the Horseshoe boundary and
the other isn’t far from Ivanhoe ground.
* * * *
Net profit of Associated Northern (W.A.) for
year ended September 30, 1910, was £13,400 less than for
the previous year, and £ll5O short of the amount re-
quired to provide the 6d. dividend paid out. As a result
of writing off £4OOO fordepreCiation, the co.’s investments
in high-class stocks now figure in the balance-sheet at the
reduced sum of £124,000, while the cash and other securi-
ties in hand tot up to £13,000 or thereabouts. As regards
the almost worked out Kalgoorlie property, the manager
states that, aided to some extent by public crushing, the
mill can bd kept running with profit for at least
another year. A few words are added about the
co.’s new mine in Mexico. This, according to official re-
ports, should readily furnish stacks of 355. to 40s. ore
with systematic developments. About 60 per cent, of
this value is gold, and the balance silver. No refractory
material is in the mine, it is said, and on a 200-ton per
day basis, costs are set down at 20s. per ton all in.
* * » *
For the year ended September 30 last South
Kalgurli (W.A.) raked in a total revenue of £147,368. The
treatment of a lower grade of ore made the profit £4106
less than in the preceding year, but it was sufficient to
maintain the usual 10 per cent, dividend. Actual ore
reserves are estimated at 171,877 tons, an increase of
14,938 tons over the previous annual estimate ; but the
grade has fallen from 6'97dwt. to 6 - 30dwt. In addition
there is said to be 90,930 tons of “probable” ore, averag-
ing s'6odwt., as compared with last year’s estimate of
148,174 tons of 6'o3dwt. The manager admits that devel-
opment has been somewhat disappointing, particularly
at the 1500 ft. level. At 1200 ft. the Perseverance lode has
been opened up for a length of 154 ft., the average being
7dwt., and the width in one part 30ft. On the Lake View
lode, at 700 ft., prospects are stated to be encouraging.
When the balance-sheet was made out the co. had cash
and securities amounting to about £BO,OOO.
* * * *
Things were only middling at the Gwalia Con-
solidated meeting held in London on January 18. One
disgusted shareholder asserted that the figures relating
to issued capital were wrongly stated in the balance-
sheet ; another reckoned that thousands of pounds would
have been saved had the mine been closed down earlier ;
a third bluntly declared that over £71,000 had been spent
in new plant and machinery which apparently was quite
unsuited for the job it was intehded to do. Finally,
matters were brought to a head by the meeting refusing
to pass the accounts. When the Board had recovered
from its astonishment the chairman intimated that a poll
would be taken, and the proceedings were thereupon ad-
journed for a month. Tests indicate that dry crushing
and roasting would solve the sulphide treatment problem,
leaving residues of about 7s. per ton. Scarcity of fuel is
a hindrance to this course, but it is thought that adequate
supplies can be obtained by laying down 20 miles of tram
line. Loring, who recently reported on the mine, esti-
mates another £60,000 to £70,000 is required to mstal a
suitable treatment plant with a monthly capacity of
10,000 tons ; so, as The Bulletin remarked the other day,
shareholders’ financial troubles are not all over yet.
* * * *
Someone named Ziegler made Southern Cross
(W.A.) turn green with envy last week by triumphantly
coming into town with three bags of specimens estimated
to contain a thousand or two pounds’ worth of gold.
Ziegler informed the covetous crowd gathered round him
that the reef from which the wealth was obtained was to
be found close to the alluvial workings on the old Queen
of Sheba lease, Parker’s Bange. A wild rush was soon
made to the locality ; but, as water is scarce, most of
those who have gone out will have to return until the dry
weather breaks.
* * * *
Lionel Robinson’s good-looking partner, Bill
Clark, returned to London by the Malwa after a three
weeks’ stay in the West. Clark spent most of this time
at Yilgarn, and left with a conviction that, outside the big
mine, the Bullfinch is not worth a second thought. Even
the big mine isn’t considered to be above suspicion by an
expert who was fortunate to get a look underground a
week or two before Clark arrived. This man declares that
the rich shoot is visibly “softening" in the bottom,
which is the worst of ail signs that anyone looking for
permanency can get. As regards the water shaft, lode
indications suggest that the flat nature of the eastern
belt of granite may bring it under this body at a compara-
tively shallow depth ; if so, the shoot will then either ride
as a contact lode, with the granite forming its footwall,
or snuff out altogether. The next crushing is expected
to average between 7oz. and Boz.
* * * *
Putting the position in a nutshell at the Sirdar
meeting (W.A.), the chairman said the co. had £330 cash
(which would be supplemented by the January profit,
amounting to £200), £464 worth of stores, 3666 shares in
reserve, and a calling power of £625. It isn’t much ; but
the mine equipment has been paid for, and the outlook
is getting more cheerful.
* * # #
East Mexican, Charters Towers, is in better
fettle than it has been for years. Development work has
proved that the two shoots of payable stone worked by
the New Brilliant Freehold rise up into the Mexican. A
few feet below No. 6 level the reef underlays into the
Freehold, so the latter is anxious about the ground
underfoot, and is searching for payable stone about
400 ft. below the Mexican’s boundary, while the Mexican
is building on good developments some 200 ft. above the
base level. Naturally the half-yearly report is optimistic,
and the golden eggs are being counted before the old
bird lays them. For the half-year an average of £7 9s. 6d.
from 1325 tons of stone looks good ; hut the mine has got
to prove itself on a much larger output.
* * « *
This shows what cyanide has done for Charters
Towers. Brilliant Extended made a loss of £625 on the
month’s run. The mill return was £6847 (gold and con-
centrates) from 4140 tons ; average, £1 Bs. 3d. per ton.
Yet last half-year there was a profit of £13,797. The bulk
of the explanation is that in the half-year 26,800 tons of
tailings were treated for a profit of about 7s. per ton,
whereas last month wet weather interfered with cyaniding
and reduced the tailings treated to 2800 tons. Certainly
the Extended has other troubles. Reserves are much
reduced, and it would cheer up things if No. 20 struck
better stone.
* « * *
A couple of good, though small, crushings ap-
peared among last month’s Charters Towers returns.
One, from the Recompense, a poor man’s show on the
Moonstone Flat, gave £3O per ton for 16 tons. The other
was a foreigner. The entry ran : “ Burns, Philp and Co.,
Samarai ; 26 tons, 171 oz. over the plates.” Presum-
ably, the little lot came from Woodlark Island.
* « # *
New Einasleigh (Q.) putup a good nine months’
record : 8719 tons ore were railed to Ohillagoe for 592
tons copper, valued at £31,293. On ore worth £3 11s.
per ton there should be profits for both mining and
smelting cos. Einasleigh is spending a lot of money on
its new plant, and the public, at any rate, doesn’t know
any too much about the reserves which are to keep this
plant going. It is easy to spend £lOO,OOO on a copper
mine; but Cobar and Fitzroy could tell that it isn’t
always easy to get it back.
* * * *
For three months Gt. Fitzroy (Q.) estimated its
revenue at £29,051, against a working expenditure of
£26,575—and the latter doesn’t include mine develop-
ment and the cost of new plant. So Fitzroy has had to
borrow a few more thousands —which puts the co. deeper
into the bog. The first run of 96 tons blister contained
5360 z, gold and 1918 oz. silver. There is more than ldwt.
gold to every unit of copper, so a ton of the red metal
contains £2O worth of gold—a tempting bait to catch the
speculator and the man who has financial assistance to
sell. The concentration experiments are not advanced
far enough to give an idea of their economy ; but 8., M.
and Co. have big hopes that way. The firm’s present
fancy is the Murex process, which Klug and others think
may develop into big things.
* * * #
Stannary Hills (Q.) produced 10 tons tin con-
centrates from 880 tons ore, so the mill is recovering a
trifle more than 1 per cent, tin oxide, and the manage-
ment hopes to rise to the old average of 2 per cent, after
a while. Some fairly good ore has been found in the
Kitchener section below the tunnel level; but a large
bulk of poor ore has to be shifted before the better-
grade can be got at. Other sections of the mine give
better promise, though there is a fly in the butter, inas-
much as the deepest level shows much mineral; and
lead and inc make treatment difficult.
H-
The bright feature of Hampden-Cloncurry
(Q.) is the development of the southern ore body near
the boundary of Hampden Consols. The 'latter, on its
own side, and some distance further south, is driving on
high-grade ore at the 260 ft. level, or about 30ft. deeper
than the Hampden’s drive. At the Duchess mine (Hamp-
den Co.’s) the north drive at the 400 ft. level has reached
550 ft., but has passed through the shoot. Hampden is in
strong hands, whose particular job for some months to
come will be to steadily push these shares up.
* * * *
P. W. Tewksbury lately struck the snag which
must have kept him awake a good many nights before he
actually came to it. He knew that a dredging co.
couldn’t get out the gold without tearing up the ground ;
but long before there was any trouble about the matter,
he went to considerable expense to remake the ground.
In fact, the first time J. C. Watson led him into the Wild
Cat’s den, all the talk was about that—he yarned more
about the walnut and wattle trees he was planting on the
worked-out areas than about the fine improve-
ments and economies he had made in the actual
dredging. The Sludge Abatement Board, however,
hit Tewksbury and his Amalgamated Co. with a
condition that, where there \s 2ft. or more of
loam, it must be re-deposited on the tailings. Tewks-
bury says that at Bright it can’t be done ; “if it were
possible to carry out the conditions imposed and make a
practical job, 1 would willingly do so.” Peter Mcßride
replies “ Rubbish ! ” cancels one lease and threatens an-
other. “ I have during the past four years,” says Tewks-
bury, “ refrained from building any new dredges for
Victoria, and I strongly recommend the co. to endeavor
to acquire properties in other States, with a view to re-
moving the plants, as it can be seen on the present basis
of yields and poor values that with any additional cost a
loss would result." Profit and Loss shows for six months
a profit of £2497 on Nos. 1, 3 and 5 dredges, and a loss of
£949 on Nos. 2 and 4 ; balance of profit £1548, from which
£420 is to come for depreciation of plant, leaving £ll2B
net. One div. of 4d. was paid (on 66,500 shares), plus 2d.
on account of return of capital.
Cassilis, Gippsland, was to have had its second
advent six months ago. Drummond from Westralia has
punched ahead at mine and slimes, but the co. isn’t much
nearer salvation. Sources of income have not turned out
up to expectation. Stone crushed averages under
JOdwt. This is the surprise packet, as the weary world
thought there was plenty of loz. dirt left to sweeten
things. Drummond says that No. 7 level values are low,
and that on No. 8 level depends the future of the mine.
There istheusual “if.” It is whether by following the
lines of faults, fresh shoots of ore will turn up. If the theory
be sound, then a cartload of apprehension disappears. If
not, and the shoots at No. 8 are low grade, Cassilis has a
tough time in store. Hard days have brought low costs.
To reduce them from 355. to 18s. per ton has been Drum-
mond’s achievement. With the aid of calls he has kept
the bank overdraft at about £5250. Now the secret is
out that another expert is in. This makes about the
forty-fifth that has bewildered a hard-swearing set of
directors. What the new man has to do is to take the
tangle out of the slimes puzzle, which is the little asset
that sweetens up the banker. Copper plus lead and zinc
are the oddments in the slimes that worry the metallur-
gist.
* * * *■
Peacock’s Co., Maude and Homeward Bound,
Glen Wills (Vic.), has had to make a call, Peter Mcßride
having put his foot down and compelled the co.
to either work the lease on its own or pass the
claim over to the tributors. When it is seen that
only £3200 has been thrown in as application money
and calls, while £10,400 has gone out in divs.
(from gold worth £89,000), it can’t be said that the gentle
callpayerhas helped much to put the mine on a decent
footing. The manager says there is a great future ahead
if the Maude reef is opened up at No. 5 level. So share-
holders can pull out their cheque books and figure up
their credits.
* * * *
There is a lot of water and little thickening in
the geological pap-bottle that Keith Ward, Tas. Govern-
ment Geologist, furnishes to suckers on the Mount Bal-
four field. One fad he tilts out of the mixture. This is
that the big knobs of quartz seen on the field, and on
which half the Collins-street shows were floated, are not
likely to add much to the world’s stock of copper. His
deduction is that the shoots of ore may be found on the
flank of bold quartz outcrops or in line with such an out-
crop. Moreover, he asserts that it cannot be said that
any.“ quite continuous lode ” has been proved for any
great distance. This is a piece of cold truth
that some of the Collins-street crowd wanted.
To hear them assert that because a patch of
ore had been seen on one boundary, and a bit
picked out two miles off, a lode 6£ miles long existed was
nothing unusual. Ward can go up one for pricking that
particular balloon.
* * * *
•Pioneer Tin (Tas.) has the following record for
the last two terms:—
Tin (in
Drift. Stream tin. lb.) per
(Cub. yds.) Cost. (Tons.) cub. yd.
June, 1910 .. 179,500 s'9Bd. 173 J 2-105
Dec., 1910 .. 150,200 6'23d. 67J I’oos
For the period from June, 1900, to Dec., 1910, the co. has
treated 3,785,700yd5. of drift for 3487 tons stream tin at a
cost of 7'69d. per yd. ; and the average value has been
2'0631b. per yard. This co. has never looked back. It
came on to a show that had frozen out both Tasmanian
and Melbourne shareholders. Cecil Ryan bored it and
pounced 'on it for Gibbs, Bright and Co., thereby
landing himself in a snug managership and his
principals in the best tin prize that Tasmania
has seen, bar the Bischoff. It started with one
little barge and some hahd-sluicing. Now there are two
big steamers and two big electric sluice pumps. Nearly
all the divs. have flowed into the pockets of as fat a crowd
as ever tore food at the Melbourne Club. And the divs.
are still fat. The last clean-up of 100 tons of stream tin
was a record. Ryan has just got his plants into a new
paddock. His last one covered an area of 27J acres and was
63ft. deep, so it is not a pocket-handkerchief claim. The
co. now intends to move on to the salubrious climate of
St. Helens, wh ere it has picked up a show approved by
the same Cecil G. Ryan. When he has further probed it,
he w ill let out how it is to be handled.
« * * *
F. W. Holst, stockbroker, of Melbourne, wants
mining cos. to be given power to allow the hand that
holds a full flush of paid-ups to exchange them for con-
tributing scrip. One of the good acts of the Melbourne
Stock Exchange was to secure to the man who put up
cash for his shares a free run of the market for six
months. This was done by tying up paid scrip for that
time. Under Holst’s plan this little safeguard might go.
The vendor, finding his slab of scrip unsaleable, would
whop in his paids and take out contributing scrip. That
is, should he want to realise. Of course, if the exchange
is to be a mere formality, and the six-months’ disability
still applies to the scrip got in exchange, no one will be
hurt. But will it be a formality? The Stock Exchange
might follow up the new scrip and taboo it. Then an-
other shuffle of the cards would be needed to get out the
Ace of Trumps.
* * « *
Just over 7,534,1200 z. fine were dug out of the
Rand gold mines during 1910, or a quarter of a million
ounces above the previous record. The output for 1911
depends on the black labor supply, which isn’t too good,
wherefore big auxiliary power schemes are being thought
out, and the use of more single-stope drills and the air-
compressing plant of the Victoria Falls Co. are expected to
relieve the fierce competition now going on for native
labor. At the moment the Rand rushers could put on
between 40,000 and 50,000 laborers, and the extra-heavy
stamps which are coming into operation early this year
will add another 8000 or 12,000 to those figures.
* * * *
The outlook for the Australian coal-export
trade continues to get no better. “The East” is only
just beginning to find out its coal wealth. Sumatra has
now got a State-owned mine in full blast at Ombilin. It
is worked exclusively by natives, under the supervision
of whites and a gang of native overseers. About 4000
coolies are employed, one-third of them convicts, who
work apart from the free laborers and are under guard.
They get food and clothing and a minimum of l£d. a day
wages. Natives under contract receive 6d. a day for
underground work, besides keep and clothing. It is
reckoned that from 10 to 12 natives can do the work of
one white miner. The output is already about 300,000
tons yearly, and the reserves are described as gargan-
tuan. There are three seams, and one of them is 30ft.
thick.
* * * *
West Arm is now a has-been, handed over to
Chow tributors, but deserted by whites. Yet it had been
hailed as the biggest and best tinfield in the N.T. The
following table shows the production, etc., of the field :
Men employed. Value of Product.
White. Chinese. Tin. Concentrates.
1906 .. 43 81 £7542
1907 .. 62 105 5700 £4293
1908 .. 21 40 4272 2528
1909 .. 18 45 4350 2740
The figures for 1910 are not yet available, but they are
considerably smaller than those for 1909. The Chinese
tributors now holding the claims are those formerly em-
ployed in the mines. One interesting sidelight is the
fact that the Boulder —a gold show —in 1909 crushed
2271 tons for 5070 z., an average of 4dwt. 11 gr.
The Chinese tributors (former employees) in 1910
crushed an average of an ounce to the ton. The Golden
Boulder Syndicate was unable to make the mine pay,
and so handed it over to tributors. Query: Would it
have paid with white labor? What gold did the Chinese
steal? One man was caught in the act. This same syndi-
cate held the Mona tin mine, now also under Chinese
tributors, who get more tin in a day than the syndicate
did in a week. There is one proved fact in the N.T.
When Chow employees are on a mine it never pays.
When those same Chows obtain the mine on tribute
they always get twice as much mineral out of it as they did
for their white employers. Yet these same white em-
ployers will boast of the Chow’s ability, honesty, clever-
ness, energy and cheapness. Apropos, a most rabid
Chowite labelled his mine Loyal Britisher, and refused to
employ any whites if a Chow was obtainable.
* * * *
Anakie (Q.) estimates its year’s business in sap-
phires at £21,200. The same count gives the present
population of the field at 450.
* * * *
Mount Morgan had to dive deep into its reserve
stock of fluxes during recent flood weather. Limestone
from Marmor and the Many Peaks stuff have both to be
railed along the Gladstone line ; and on that line, near
Rockhampton, is Roopes Bridge, a low-level concern
affected by backwaters from the Fitzroy and in the habit
of hiding itself beneath 2ft. of water on the slightest
provocation. This time, no flux trains could get through
for a fortnight or more, and the management began to
get anxious. When the line was re-opened, how did they
rush the stuff through !
* + * *
Four companies contributed to Westralia’s gold
dividend distribution for January, the aggregate of
£98,968 being made up as followslvanhoe £50,000,
Kalgurli £37,500, Associated Northern £8750, and Black
Range £2718. Since the gold industry got on its feet in
1886,77 companies have disbursed £21,351,404 ; but of
the 77 very few now remain on the distributing list.


.< .--X
COPENHAGEN </>
CHERRY BRAWDYI
Purveyor by Appointment to H.M.
King George V. and Danish
and Russian Courts.
CS
rffc
ROBUR
Mum says tea isn’t so good
for little girlies as milk is, but
it’s better for big ladies. When
you’re a big lady will you buy
some Robur tea and drink it
like mum does? Faver says she’s
at the teapot morning, noon and
night she says it would be
better for him if he was at it, too,
instead of somefing else with a
funny name beginning with
“W.”
Mum says there isn’t any tea
so good as Robur, and faver
says he doesn’t know nuffing
about it ’cepting a friend of his
who’s a tea-taster says it’s the
best fing for him to drink.
And to look for the date on
the package, ’caus the fresher it
is, the better it is.
Girli*
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, February 27, 1911.
My Dear Artni,—
The name Mary is a beautiful possession. Do
you know a Mary who isn’t—well, who isn’t
Maryish ? All the same, you’ll be glad your name
is Arini instead of Mary, Maria, May, "Marian or
Marion, or Marie. It’s financial economy not to
bear any one of those names now that the
Mayoress, Mrs. Allen Taylor, is out for sub-
scriptions from all women so cognomened for the
fund for the Queen Mary Coronation Gift. Lord
Richard Nevill, during his last week’s visit to
Sydney, “approached ” (a good word) one of the
principal Maries of the State—Mrs. Monty Mary
Severn—and asked her to take up Queen Mary’s
cause in this matter. Result of negotiations:
Mrs. Allen Taylor, whose name is Adela, has been
induced to lead the van of Maries. Mrs. Severn
contents herself with the hon. sec.-ship, and a
meeting has been called for Wednesday next in
Jhe Mayoress’s rooms at the Town Hall. Dona-
tions may be anything from a penny to a pound,
but the amounts given by the donators will not be
published.
Lord Dudley is to come over during the week
to visit the ailing Royalty at Dr. MacCormick’s
hospital. , Her Ex. would do likewise, but Gov-
ernment House is uninhabitable just now, and
there are no clubs in Sydney, so far, where wan-
dering ladies may put up in peace and quiet.
Some charming persons were amongst the group
that looked in at Mrs. Charles Taylor’s and Miss
Sheena Potter’s At Home at the Australia last
week. Miss Potter is the clever Girton girl
who came here to collect industrial statistics. Miss
Mackellar (daughter of the doctor of that name),
whose verses in the Spectator and Bulletin at-
tracted admiring notice from connoisseurs, drifted
in, and proved to be a quite young and uncommonly
pretty girl. Mr. and Mrs. Holman, Miss Rose
Scott, the B. R. Wises, Miss Evelyn Dickenson,
Mrs. Grant and a host of others who either
have helped the young trawler for statistics or
had merely made her acquaintance, were present.
Mrs. Grant is the secretary of the Women’s
Political Labor League, and a remarkable per-
sonality. She exudes knowledge of the workers’
problems, and the gentleness and tact with which
she “laid out” the upholders of hostile views
made them feel not defeated, but like being put
into a hypnotic sleep.
Last week’s mail brought detailed news of Miss
Ella Caspers’s marriage in London in January to
a man calling himself Bradley, and of the wedding
breakfast at Claridge’s, London’s “smartest”
hotel. The detailed accounts had only been
read when the morning papers told by cable of
the arrest of the man Bradley on a charge of
bigamously marrying the innocent little Goulburn
girl. All Australia is feeling great sympathy for
the contralto, and also feeling that revenge
is sweet. But, if the' bigamy is proved, no
punishment of the man can compensate Miss
Caspers for the harm he has done her and
the check to her career as a singer. As soon
as the marriage was definitely fixed, she re-
linquished the scholarship fund by which her
musical education was progressing, and subscribers
were given to understand that her future hus-
band’s means were considerable, his own musical
knowledge above the average, and that we
should by-and-bye hear the finished singer
in Australia. Possibly the last understanding
Will be realised. Miss Caspers is very young—
not more than 19, I think—and most likely the
alienated funds can be restored to her use.
Cabled reports of the matrimonial disaster men-
tion that the alleged bigamist’s real name is Felix
Ogilvie and that he is a German. Which sounds
aLout as likely as “a Frenchman named O’Flan-
nagan.” Ogilvie is a decent Scotch name, and as
toFelix —well that won’t fit him very well if
he’s guilty and is put to wear a zebra suit and set
to do something long and heavy in prison. (Only
sentences have come down so greatly of late
years. Think of the Jap at Perth who, the other
day, got one month for murdering his white
sweetheart!) This German, it is alleged, has
other bigamies to his credit; and, if the sad tale
is true, one does hope that there will be boiling
oil in the sentence.
The women who live under the red tiles of
North Sydney are rallying round the standard of
Colonel Granville Ryrie, and, if the more genteel
females know it, the coarse Labor person won’t
have so much as a look in. The “ Liberal ” can-
didate is one after their own heart. He is not
only a Colonel, but a squatter. His family has
never been “in trade.” Australia’s first Ryrie
was a British officer. What more can a constitu-
ency which fairly teems with persons who own
visiting cards and “ at home ’’ days ask ?
There are signs and portents in London that
the Sydneyside soprano, Osca Marah, will be
another big advt. for this country. Persons not
abiding in Australia, but desiring children with
star voices, had better arrange with the stork
accordingly. The Macedonia brought seafarers
who had heard the Marah girl at the Hip-
podrome ; but adequate phrases of admira-
tion failed them. Mr. Burns-Walker, who
was Miss May McCam ley’s teacher here, says
he never heard a student-voice of such power and
volume. It had a range of three octaves, and she
sang the lower f like a deep contralto. Mrs. de
Yere Sapio prophesied a great future for the
17-year-old, and if we are late in hearing of
the dramatic soprano bird, it must be because
she walked into the matrimonial cage and sang
for One Only for some years. Miss MeCamley’s
father is captain of one of the Federal-Houlder
vessels—the Rippingham Grange, I think. She
took her queer first name, Osca, from Tosca, her
favorite opera, by eliding the first letter. Marah
—doesn’t it mean “ bitter” ? But if so, it doesn’t
express any experience of the singers in the Eng-
lish capital. Her first appearance there was suc-
cessful, and her marriage to Mr. Grundy, London
editor of the N. Y. Sun, a happy one.
The hot-stocking afternoon is now the star item
at Sydney picnics. Girls select for wear hose that
scream, bark, bellow. Cerise frogs on an emerald
ground make a very “hot-stocking” pattern. So
do mandarin lizards, scurrying over diagonal bars
of violet. A favorite actress is generally sought to
do the judging. But sometimes the task falls to a
man.
For years and years Sydney University has
been awaiting its “ Australasian Students’ Song
Book.” But the authorities were coy, or over
eclectic or troubled with the tired feeling, and the
volume failed to materialise. Now it is definitely
promised for March. Professors Todd and Holme
have been appointed editors by the students
of Sydney and Melbourne. The book is to con-
tain what are described as “ the best of the Com-
memoration and Commencement Songs,” together
with works of our better-known local bards. And
there will be 162 efforts of genius to choose from.
Ernest Truman, the Sydney city organist, has
principal charge of the musical end of the pub-
lication.
By the Macedonia last week, Mr. James Ed-
mond, editor-in-chief of The Bulletin, left for a
trip to the United Kingdom and a prowl in the
garden of Allah, and then on to Jerusalem.
I see Mr. Consett Stephen attended the De-
fence meeting in the Town Hall the other night,
and, in a few stirring words, urged this country
to “ get a move on ” in the matter of training and
arming itself. As a public speaker Mr. Stephen
beats the average local politician out of sight.
Twenty-five years ago he was one of the shining
lights of the Union, at Oxford, and he has never
forgotten the lessons inculcated there. Strangely
enough, Mr. Stephen chose a profession which was
least calculated to give him chances to air his gift.
He is the conveyancing expert of Stephen, Jaques
and Stephen.
London Daily Mail breaks the painful news
that the real name of lovely Zena Dare, who has
just married Lord Esher’s son, is Dones. It was
ever thus. A year or so ago Denise Orme, fairest
and most spiritucllc of musical comedy artists,
wedded the present Lord Churston. Not till
then did the public learn that her right name was
Jessie Smithers. And Mabel Love was really
Martha Liggs. She tried to drown hersejf early
in her career, which, in the circumstances, is more
or less understandable. The only stage beauty I
know of who brazened it out with the unromantic
style her parents had inflicted on her was named
Boote, and she married a marquis.
Talking of names, have you observed the weird
prevalence of “Bruce Smith”? The same week
Mr. Bruce Smith, M.P., told his constituents that,
if the Referenda questions were answered in the
affirmative, the streets of Burwood would run
ankle-deep with blood, or words to that effect, a
young man named Bruce Smith was dealt with
for, in some way, fracturing our criminal Code.
Simultaneously a five-year-old Bruce Smith fell
into an open drain in Annandale and was nearly
drowned. Hurrying from the lad’s troubles to an
English illustrated paper, I found that one of the
folks who took part in the annual cake-cutting
ceremony at Drury Lane Theatre (London) was
called Bruce Smith. A typical Poverty Pointer
he looked, and he smiled ingratiatingly at the
camera alongside our own Dolly Castles. In and
out of print I have met about 43
Bruce Smiths in the last six months,
and if our own particular Bruce doesn’t call him-
self by his other name of Arthur I shall begin to
think he isn’t half the gentleman he looks.
The Captain Weigall, who has just broken into
the House of Commons after several fruitless
attempts, has many relatives here and in Mel-
bourne. An uncle is headmaster of Sydney Gram-
mar School, and another is a Victorian K.C.
He married a millionairess last year.
Mr. Victor Macken, a nephew of Mr. Francis
Foy, and by way of becoming one of the Sydney
Bar, is engaged to Miss Brennan, a daughter cif
Mr. James Brennan, who has just been float-
ing his Amphitheatre into a public company.
The youthful pair met at Kosciusko. Another
advt. for the snow-line.
James de Conlay. The name with its sugges-
tion of a Gallic graft on a Hibernian stem has
been of late years besprinkling the American
press, A few months ago it started checkering
the English papers, and ever since the bearer of
it left his native Warwick, in Queensland, the
name has more or less mottled Australasian
journals.
Mr. Claude McKay, of the J.C.W. head-
quarters staff, who knows de Conlay well, sup-
plies some particulars of the young Banana-
lander’s activity in climbing the ladder of success.
“Jimmy de Conlay,” he says, “typifies the
restless spirit of the age ; perhaps, not so much
restless as impatient—of small things. Warwick
shook its head over him as a practical joker.
Warwick people were seriously-minded about
matters for narrow-gauge intellects, and Jimmy
had either to make a chronic April fool of
the town or contract his mental expansive-
ness. So he got up spoof controversies in
the local Argus, and when he had the town
divided on the vital question as to whether
it was correct to say an hotel or a hotel, and, after
Arthur Morgan had written a ponderous leader
reviewing the authorities (sprung from Jimmy’s
fertile imagination), James de Conlay would get
in the mail van to Sydney. Instead of paying a
fare he would help sort letters, and was always
welcome on the overland run by reason both of
his usefulness and companionableness. In course
of time, Warwick evolved Arthur Morgan,
Premier of Queensland, and James de Conlay.
In the gap between the two you could place the
whole human race.
“Jimmy preferred to be a fool among wise men.
He grew impatient of the localism of Warwick.
Brisbane felt too small and Sydney cram pel him.
His way of overcoming obstacles was not to admit
that any existed. For instance, every regular
pressman in Australia sought an interview with
the Duke of York (the present King) at Common-
wealth celebration time. Each and all were
bluffed off by the regal secretaries. When
George’s train drew up at Warwick, de Conlay
did not allow that these lofty personages existed.
He bowled straight up and interviewed H.R.H.
before H.R.H. quite realised what had happened.
That was the only talk for publication purposes a
newspaper man got in Australia from him.”
When de Conlay set out to conquer America
McKay asked him how funds were. “Jimmy”
confessed that he had none—he was crossing the
Pacific on a windjammer, “and if you had seen
the way the captain and the crew fussed rourjd him
you would have thought he owned the vessel.”
For the next year McKay followed his friend’s
movements through an American news-clipping
agency. Upand down U.S.A. herodein a railway
car de luxe, and at every town the newspaper men
interviewed him and Jimmy talked Australia. He
travelled 30,000 miles this way and never paid
out sixpence for transportation. In New York de
Conlay appeared in a new role. The newspapers
proclaimed him a preacher with a rare gift for
stating practical Christianity. His way of making
friends brought him into touch with the pastor of
the most numerous Methodist congregation in the
world. Jimmy had serious moods —genuine, too.
The upshot of his friendship with the minister
was that he asked de Conlay to address his flock.
Jimmy agreed and gave them a talk with a lift in
it.
Next his skill as an organiser on original lines
brought him a lot of money that he was getting
along very well without. He mixed with New
York newspaper men, and was struck by the fact
that many bright young fellows were not making a
living wage. He picked out about a dozen, put
them on salary, directed their energies and sold
their work. In this way he exploited one of
America’s best-known poets of to-day—Kaufman,
who can now market his verses at his own figure.
Then the l’.ananalander crossed the Atlantic and
laid siege to London. Do you know what that
means? Perhaps it’s as well you don’t. Anyway,
de Conlay went in and won. He is comfortably
installed in a suite at the Hotel Waldorf, and he is
regarded as one of the best Australians in London
to-day, as well as one of the most successful. He
has on his staff the brightest freelances of Fleet-
street. And his business is to make the advertis-
ing pages of English publications more interest-
ing than the “ reading sections” ; and his article
on Selfridge’s in the London MAGAZiNEof February
shows one of the artistic ways in which the thing
is done.
Amongst a recent crop of marriage notices that
which starts Garry-McCauley made me pause in
biting my toast whilst I read with the daily sheet
propped up against the coffee-pot. Mr. Dan
McCauley, father of the bride (Miss Agnes Mary
McCauley), is one of the wittiest of Irish-Austra-
lians. When I inhabited Mosman, where the
McCauley family lives, my friends told me
that the efforts I made to sit within ear-
shot of “Dan,” as the men affectionately
called him, were quite unseemly. Politics and
sport were his strong points, and all his points
might have gone straight into print and made the
paper coruscate. Mr. “Jack ” Garry, the bride-
groom of the notice, is a pastoralist who feeds his
lambs at “ Mvlora,” Binalong. Be sure you pro-
nounce it Bine along, or you’ll be told that all
goods are delivered at the back door, and that
there’s a tradesman’s entrance.
_ A recent wedding : Miss Muriel Thompson, a
sister of Mr. Percy Thompson, one of the direc-
tors of David JoneS, Ltd., to Mr. Angus, a son of
the inventor of that wonderful “machine with a
brain” for preventing railway collisions. The
lace on the bride’s robe was said to be worth a
potentate’s ransom. I suppose that phrase was
invented hundreds of years ago when kings used
to be captured and, later on, given up for large
spot cash payment.
Miss Gibbs is trousseau-hunting. Not Blanche
Browne, but a young squatteress, fairand moneyed.
By the way, people are persistent in asserting
that the Miss Gibbs 8.8. is to become an Aus-
tralian fixture through the medium of the wed-
ding ring.
Mrs. Laing-Meason, a Maorilander, mother of
that nice, red-maned girl who has made frequent
appearances on the Australasian stage, and of the
pianist, Magnus Laing-Meason, sees nothing
sinister in the lights of London. W. T. Stead
has taken her as assistant-editor on the Review
of Reviews.
What a godsend the Manly ferry-boats are to
the bogusrinebriate type of youth. This lament-
able disfigurement or absurdity has grown rare in
the city since unsympathetic police-officers took
to running him into the nearest lock-up whenever
he exhibited himself. But policemen are scarcer
than archbishops on the harbor trip, and the lad
whose pleasure it is to masquerade as an in-
toxicated person knows it, and acts accordingly.
I journeyed from Manly, the other night, in the
neighborhood of one of these boys. Adopting the
thick, guttural utterance of the stage dipsomaniac,
he addressed words of recklessness to a couple of
acquaintances. Then, swaying fearfully, he groped
his way along the deck. Presently he tottered
back again, his eyes glaring as though an attack
of delirium tremens were imminent. Anon he'
reeled towards the musicians and engaged them
in conversation. The upshot of it was they allowed
him to sing. As the words, “An inegell in orl
but nime is she” were bleated forth, I realised
that the songster, though a poor artist, was
quite sober. He had been pulling our legs,
and doing it fairly well too. Despite cat-
calls and missiles, he persevered with the
appalling ditty to the finish, and with a solemnity
that was weirdly humorless in the circumstances.
Dislodged from the piano, he had the audacity to
recommence the intoxication business. But the
trippers viewed him with disfavor, not to say con-
tempt ; folk even went so far, in their bitterness,
as to say he had not tasted anything stronger than
lemonade since he drew his weekly 15s. The
psychological explanation of all this is, I under-
stand, the same craving for notoriety at any price
that impels people to confess to murders they have
never committed, and, generally, consider re-
spectability well lost for limelight. But it is a
nuisance to onlookers, and when it might be de-
feated by the employment of a plain-clothes con-
stable or two, I don’t think the ferry cos. should
grudge the money.
St. Mark’s Church, in Darling Point-road, is to
be sandwiched by new neighbors. Mr. Owen
Cox has taken the house known as St. Luke’s, and
will occupy it on return from his imminent visit
to Europe; and Mrs. Toohey, of Wahroonga, has
secured Greenoaks Cottage, the W. Morts’ old
place, for the winter, and will go into possession
early in April.
Captain Prowse and his bride are back in
Sydney and at the Australia. They were at the
cricket match on Saturday; she in something
white and simple in frocks, a beautiful belt-
buckle and a no-regret expression.
Two fair Melbournians, Miss Chirnside and
Miss Fenner, who came back from a visit to M.L.
recently, are staying at Monterey, in Macleay-
street. The Battenberg Prince’s medical security,
Dr. Mcllroy, mostly dines there. The temptation
to balance up and ask him how the Highness is
progressing must be pretty keen amongst sympa-
thetic fellow-diners.
Miss Marie Illington, Miss Cissie Jamieson
and Miss “ Baby ” McQuade are bound for Med-
low, where the rheumatic nor’-easter can’t catch
them.
Mrs. Maclurcan and her youngest daughter are
returners on the Otway. During their absence
the son of the Wentworth has installed a fine
wireless apparatus on the roof of the hotel.
Mrs. Bogue Luffmann has gone, or is about to
go, on a political lecturing tour to Glen Innes to
enlighten the darkness of voters. Naturally, the
lady enlightens from the “Liberal” point of
view.
Says Lady Randolph Churchill (one time Miss
Jennie Jerome, of U.S.A.), the mother of Win-
ston, in her book of Reminiscences :
In the month of October (1890) I one day received a
visit from Mrs. Blow, an American lady who had lived
for some time in Australia. The object of her visit was
to susrvest the idea of an American Hospital Ship to be
sent to South Africa.
The Mrs. Blow referred to was the wife of an
American engineer who lived in Sydney for a
time. She was a tall, handsome, finely-jewelled
woman, who wore a medallion attached to a rib-
bon, which proclaimed her a Daughter of the
Revolution—a sort of society composed of the
feminine posterity of prominent Revolution-
ists who were responsible for the American seces-
sion in 1778. The result of Her suggestion was the
hospital ship Maine, fitted out for service in S’Afri-
can waters, manned and supported by Americans,
and under control of an English military surgeon.
The good work done by its staff does not need re-
telling at this ancient date. The Maine after-
wards did hospital duty in China during the
fighting there in 1900, still at the cost of our
American compatriots, and finally was presented
by the owners to the British Government, the
ladies’ committee donating the fittings and equip-
ment. Blow would seem to be a not uncommon
name in the States. Its bearers really ought to
put in a bit of relief. Prefix it with Dry, for in-
stance.
A friend in Mackav (Q.), who conceals his iden-
tity under a signature I cannot read, sends me £1
for division between the Child Study Association
and the Blind Asylum. Cordial thanks here-
with.
It is said that, in London, bridge has started to
go out of fashion, and the alleged reason is the
indifferent manners of the players. Whist was
hedged round with conventions. None but the
very old dared to take their partners to task.
Bridge is, in its essence, a free-and-easy game.
Everyone feels within his or her rights in pointing
out, at the finish of a hand, who has erred and
how. An effect of this practice is that in many
circles—more especially where play is high
and the players proportionately keen—a so-
called friendly rubber habitually develops
into something suggestive of a debate in
a suburban council. A few players, strong-neryed,
loud-lunged folk, rather like this sort of thing.
The majority get bored with it. There are indi-
cations that bridge is losing a lot of its hold in
Australia. If it wilts altogether—here as in Eng-
land —it will be largely because of the bad manners
and worse tempers of certain habitual players.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Vice-Regal
Jewellers,
DESIGN
QUALITY.
VALUE
THE LATEST LONDON AND CONTINENTAL DESIGNS.
Large
Illustrated
Catalogue
Free.
X.
Selections
Forwarded
on
Approval.
Showrooms :
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Address: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS, E.C.
500,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
Bookstall Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price 1/- Each. Post Free, 1/3.
msso
w
“TOnnY THE HAWKER
and HIS BOY SNIFTER.”
By EDWARD DYSON,
Author of “The Golden Shanty,” etc.
Fully Illustrated. Price 1/-; Post Free, 1/3.
Tommy the Hawker is a “character,” and Snifter is not one
whit behind. This is essentially a humorous book; but it is
something more, for on various occasions the Hawker shows himself to be a man of parts ;
cool, calculating, daring and courageous. The stratagem by which he, single-handed,
captured two bushrangers, is in itself worth buying the book for, and his raiding of the
Chinese gambling den is a fine example of what nerve, resource and courage can accomplish.
“ Selling like Ripe Cherries.*’
STEELE RUDD’S Great
Australian Books.
Sandy’s Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking; Our Selection.
On an Australian Farm.
The Dashwoods.
IN CHEAP EDITIONS.
Price
Post Free, 1/3.
All the celebrated illustrations have
been retained, as these new Cheap
Editions are printed from the
Original Stereos.
" r ~I
sm
DOR
' MOT
BY jM
Rudd/ Qm
Over ,£lO,OOO worth of “ON OUR SELECTION” and “OUR NEW SELECTION”have
been sold in Australia—a FACT that speaks volumes for their popularity.
Thousands of admirers of Steele Rudd, who could not hitherto afford the prohibitive price of
his books, can now laugh with the best.
Uniform with the above, “THE BULLETIN RECITER.”
Are now obtainable at all
Branches and Bookstalls of the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
Is Music a Neglected Pleasure
in Your Home?
YOU enjoy looking at great pictures and reading good books. Wouldn’t
you find equal pleasure in beautiful music, if it could be brought
directly into your own home ?
Merely listening to fine music, well rendered, is pleasurable. But when,
to the enjoyment of listening, is added the fascination of personally producing
the music yourself you have a form of entertainment that is irresistible.
The pleasure of the STECK PIANOLA PIANO is the pleasure of
conquest. Each composition that you take up you make your very own.
You play it over and over until you know the different themes, and with each
repetition you strive to secure a more artistic result.
The pleasure that the painter has in watching the canvas grow under his
brush is yours when you play the STECK PIANOLA PIANO, for each
time you play a composition you create it anew.
THE popularity of the STECK PIANOLA PIANO is not founded on mere
caprice, but is based upon a deep-seated need of human nature. It is the
desire to do things ourselves , and the pride we take in a thing well done.
As the success of the PIANOLA PIANO induces more and more imita-
tion, it becomes increasingly important to distinguish between the different
instruments of this type. Rack of the Pianola Piano are 316 basic patents.
They ensure points of musical and mechanical superiority which imitators
cannot overcome.
CAUTION. —The Pianola Piano is obtainable in Sydney only at the
Pianola Showrooms. The Steinway and the Steck are the only pianos contain-
ing the genuine Pianola.
Wouldn’t you like to own one of these wonderful Pianos, which are above
criticism from a musical standpoint—which enable you to hear all the world’s
best music ?
Let us send you one of our catalogues. We will send it free if you will
write us. Ask for Catalogue C.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY, 357 George Street, Sydney; also at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.


4/-
JUST TO ADVERTISE I !
A Sixpenny Bottle of CALDWELL’S
INK and a Half-Guinea 14=carat
Iridium tipped, twin feed Fountain Pen for
If you can’t buy locally, send Postal Note
direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
Nothing doubtful in “ Montserkat ” Lime
Juice. It s good and pure. The genuine juice of
cultivated lime fruit, it is an exquisite beverage
for all the year round. A healthv drink for
children.*
gw
;5
, ;
■J*A
!SS
mw
w
l)
w
“Why We Win !”
“ Merit alone lasts—subterfuge and false
worth may linger along—may obtain some
success—but the Inevitable crash Is only
the greater. Mer.t has, and always will
win out. The famous French
Royal
‘P.D/
Rustless Corsets
throughout the whole world of Fashion In
Europe, America. Australia (and where-
ever civilisation has made its way) are the
Corsets that appeal to my sisters—because
we are so exquisitely modelled, so beauti-
fully designed, and made of such fine
materials that we win our way Into the
affections of all womankind by True Merit
and Worth.
“Yours sincerely,
“A Royal ‘P.D.’ Model.’»
“None Genuine without Trade Mark.”
TRADE
ET
MARK.
“C.J.”
LADIES’ TAILORING.
The Latest Fashionable Styles in Costumes
trimmed with very wide braid; also
New Velvets, plain or with Stripes.
Ladies are requested to book their orders early to avoid disappointment at the
Well-Known
... House of
HAYWARD,
323 George St., pJLhg’s, Sydney.
Dff“ Write for Fashion Book.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 27, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie. —
The wedding of Mr. “Tony ” Hordern to Miss
Viola Bingham, daughter of the late Colonel
Bingham and niece of C.J. Madden, which
occurred to-day, was admirably stage-managed.
For hours before 2 p.m., when the ceremonial
curtain was fixed to ascend, large flat-footed
policemen prowied outside St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral, thereby giving those passers-by who
weren’t already aware of the fact, the office
that an Important Function loomed. By
lunch-time there were from two to three
thousand folks surging in the neighborhood. The
notabilities arrived sharp on time. The G.-G.
brought Lady Dudley, cameo-like in ivory cr£pe-
de-chine and an immense black hat. Lord Dick
Nevill and Sir Alexander Napier trailed in their
wake. Followed Mr. Pat Osborne and his sister-
in-law, who is a first cousin of the bride’s. And
then came a stream ‘or cataract of Fiskens,
Staughtons, Powers, Ryans and Clarkes, also a
vast Sydney contingent, relatives of the groom—•
Walfords, Sees, Watsons and others. Inside the
Cathedral, near the chancel steps, stood
the central male figure of the pageant.
He is tall and slight, and the possessor
of features that would do credit to any beauty-
actor. Further, his hair waves naturally, and his
complexion would be a good advertisement for
somebody’s face-cream. A brother, “Libby,”
stood at his right hand with the object of assisting
him in the hour of need.
The bride transpired punctually. In feature,
expression, coloring and style she is the image of
the younger Madden girls—which is to say she is
a very pretty girl indeed. She wore her brown hair
in the Grecian fashion, introduced in these parts
by Lady Dudley, followed by Mrs, Hore-Ruthven
and subsequently adopted by all with any claims
to a profile. The official description of her dress
mentions a white satin Empire frock veiled with
a tunic of white ninon, clasped in front with a
plaque of silver embroidery. Also, a court train,
lined with ninon and embroidered with narrow
silver cord, and a corsage with Asiatic sleeves and
a guimpe of tulle finished with a narrow-pleated
collar.
Among the most impressive-looking of “those
present” was the mother of the bridegroom. She
recalls, in the perfection of her dressing and her
air of distinction, Sydney’s Mrs. Burdekin. A
mammoth reception was held afterwards at Men-
zies’ by Mrs. Palliser Hickman, of India, who
used to be Mrs. Colonel Bingham, of Melbourne ;
and then the wedded pair fied away to the Sam
Horderns’ Bowral (N.S.W.) mansion.
On Saturday, with the sun smiling warmly,
blue skies and a big crowd, the V.A.T.C. people
finished up the Autumn Meeting. In spite of the
heat, some poor fashion-ridden women appeared
in furs and heavy dresses. Of course they almost
died ; but they deserved to suffer. One dame
wore dark blue cloth with a foot-wide edging of
plush. Plush is back again, and this lady was the
pioneer. Sooner than miss the distinction of
being the first bird of fashion, she suffered a day’s
suffocation. She topped the oven-like effect
by a small hat of musquash fur. Mrs. Lawyer
Billy Williams held up a thin, cool, cling-
ing tussore, like an Indian riding-habit, and
showed buff spats to her boots. Mrs. Reggie
Power, who wandered about with her, had a cool
blue crepe-de-chine. The bride Bingham’s mamma
was there in a black busby of a hat; she had
another daughter along. A smart woman com-
pelled attention in a black satin coat and skirt.
“Eighteen shillings a yard, that coating satin !”
whispered an envious voice near me. “It has
wool on its inside.” “ Thank you,” I said, in a
respectful tone, and tried to puzzle it out.
The Autumn meeting gives one a good idea of
what’s going to be in the millinery line. Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald was so well dressed that I’m
sure her hat must have been a Model. It was a
flower-pot covered with kilted black satin. Mrs.
Jack Fisken, all in black, was the most charming-
looking woman on the lawn.
Everything is lop-sided, left-sided and “odd’
at the moment. One wears a single earring in
the left ear. The frill of your cravat bends to the
prompt side. Your hair is puffed in curls at the
left side, and flattened at the right, and the hat
that tops the hair has an exaggerated brim to
port.
Mrs. Alan Currie gave the tea-party of the day
on some dozens of cute little tables pinked out
with rose-colored lilies. There was a sudden
exodus to the cool, green lawns after Son of the
Marsh had failed to win.
The returning race trains were carefully watched
from the high signalbox at the end of Caulfield
platform by gold-braided officials and two anxious
men in ordinary civilian garb. One was evidently
a big railway chief, for he waved commandingly
from his eyrie, and moved mountains of steel with
a gesture.
I beg, on behalf of my poor crushed sisters,
most respectfully to submit some suggestions to
Mr. Fitzpatrick. Why not place large placards
on three or four carriages of each train notifying
that they are “ For Women Only.” Every man in
a race train is not a gentleman. You can’t judge
him by the clothes he wears or the class of carriage
he infests. Women travellers who are neither
brawny nor athletic, have a bad time after each
meeting. The more timid slip away before the
end of the day to avoid the crushing ordeal; but
that cannot be done if husbands and men-folk w*7/!
linger on till the rush starts. In some parts of
America where they have to constantly deal with
large masses of hurried humanity, there are ticket
windows and turnstile gates reserved exclusively
for women.
The Greenroom Club, which is still a compara-
tively young and tender plant, cashboxed £l5O for
its distressed actors’ fund as the result of the
matinee at the King’s on Tuesday last. All the
theatres helped. The audience was a packed one ;
hilso, it was hot and breathless, but very much enter-
tained. People outside limelight life felt dazzled ;
there were theatricals on both sides of the foot-
lights, and stars of the first magnitude shone in
all sorts of corners. The curtain went up on a
musical party hosted by Bert Bailey. Ned Dug-
gan had his knees bared below the kilted tulle
ilkirt of a ballet dancer, and wore his hair in saucy
flaxen curls, Harry Sweeney got himself into a
ballet dress and tights ; in his make up, he looked
like an enlarged portrait of a well-known matron.
Roy Redgrave blackened his face as a Bones.
The Ginger Girls were to have danced ; but one
had a “ throat;,” and the other Ginger One could
not appear without her twin.
On the third day of the Melbourne Test match
there was an assemblage of “importants.” Gover-
nor Carmichael was present in a suit of vegetable-
soup tint. Attending were a couple of gentlemen
helps. They were dressed in ennui, mostly. Near
at hand figured Prime Minister Fisher and a
bouquet plucked from his Cabinet. Occasionally
Walter Baker strolled, self-centred and solemn,
as if Ute-d-tite with his soul. Another matinee ap-
pearance was that of Bert Bailey, almost blinding
the sun with his smile and his shoe. In one of
the stands Principal Boy Arundale was telling
her second-best thoughts to an elderly gentlema,n.
Close by a young man absorbed the mots of Miss
“Gay Grisette ” Imeson, who is almost a cult
with lovers of blondes. Down below, the princi-
pal figure was one of the panto. Dohertys, whose
hat was given over to unplucked poultry. Come-
dian Cannot enjoyed himself and everything else;
and a very sweet singer from the Theatre Royal
made a chromo-lithographic picture. Her well-
fitting frock was of palest verdigris. None of
these people seemed to be looking hard for
cricket, by the way. They were more of the sort
that pauses in its conversation when it hears a
noise and asks casually, “Is somebody out ? ”
Airman Hammond has given a lot of admiring
Victorians a crick in the neck. Disappointed
gazers who attended the previous aviator’s un-
successful attempt were chary of. Hammond’s first
early-morning effort, and' only, a sprinkling of
officialdom rushed out to the waste to see the
5 o’clock start. Geelong, where opportunities
of getting excited are rare, was more easily roused.
Hammond flew to the place where sleeping
draughts are unnecessary, and alighted like a bird.
Then delighted Geelong set the alarm for a terri-
fying hour, and next morning uprose in the dawn
to see the bird-man climb into the air and depart
like several packets of crackers. It wasn’t dis-
appointed either; the miracle, happened easily,
and the Geelongites cheered the dwindling speck
in the dawn and grieved not at all after their lost
repose.
After three successful flights, the bi-planer got
a terse daily paper notice something like this:—
“ Hammond flew again this morning. He covered
so many miles in so many minutes ; the flight was
without incident.” There you are 1 Any twen-
tieth century miracle repeated smoothly without
accident several times running—or flying—be-
comes commonplace right away. The three
triumphal air jaunts will draw amateur aviators
like sheep; and with Mrs. Hammond swirling
overhead with hubby, half the women in Mel-
bourne will forget their foi-mer qualms and crave
for “just one flight.” It is not many years since
half the women in Melbourne solemnly declared
they would never step into “one of those danger-
ous motors.”
To look at, Hammond’s machine, a rectangular
contraption, is far less graceful than the recent
Bleriot; but, far'more to the purpose, the airman
seems to be able to do much as he likes with it.
Hammond, by the way, is little more than a youth,
and was a Maori land farmer till a year or two back,
when he went to Europe, took to aviation, and
gained his certificate in 10 days.
Weddings were so numerous in February that
they left a plain trail of confetti over the month.
The accompanying receptions were a blessing, for
they took the place of the absent gaieties of the
dog days. At St. John’s, Toorak’s romantic ivy-
covered church, two thoroughly Tooraketty and
gaily-apparelled weddings almost trod on each
other’s satin heels. First, the Rev. C. E. Drought
gave Miss Ethel Fisken’s hand into Dicky O’Hara’s
keeping. Though the ceremony was reserved for
the sight of the relatives, yet the Fisken clan
is so large and the women folk of the family are so
imposing in their gowning that the affair was
actually only as quiet as a purring moto/. The
family returned with the pair to lunch at Corra-
beet; and in the afternoon all Toorak came to a
reception. A tent in the garden was hung with
emerald green as a compliment to the Irish bride-
groom. He is the son of the late Charles O’Hara,
of Bananaland. The honeymooners went to the
old Fisken homestead at Lai Lai for a quiet spell
before entraining for Port Adelaide and a crowded
London-bound liner. They are to trip through
Ireland.
The other wedding—it was an evening affair—
had an invitation list like the passenger card of
the Jast Coronation boat. Dr. Eccles’s daughter
Muriel was married to the son of the late Justice
Giblin, of Hobart. Mrs. Eccles, just back from
a long spell in Germany, brought home with her
a considerable addition to the trousseau. Miss
Muriel wore her mother’s orange blossoms; also
she wore every item of a bride’s conventional
gear. The bridesmaids were a foaming wave of
chiffons; mauve ninon over blue satin and latticed
with gold net was only part of the sunrise effect.
Caps and tinted bouquets and strewn rose leaves
provided the finishing touch. Dr. Brett, who is
contemplating the matrimonial plunge himself,
helped the bridegroom through. The dazzling
reception was held at Illawarra. At the church
the women guests wore full evening dress and pic-
ture hats. Afterwards, at Illawarra, they danced,
played cards, or studied the stars—with intervals
for ices.
The lady who was Miss Ethel Fisken, but is now
Mrs. Richard O’Hara, was for years an honorary
treasurer of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty
to Children. She resigned the post prior to her
marriage, and her women friends-in-charity gave
her a farewell tea and handed over a fine leather
writing-case. The recipient smiled her thanks
out of sea-blue surroundings and a big mole-
colored hat.
The Hobart carnival season usually tows at least
one engagement in its wake. One of the like-as-two
peas Lillies (the twin daughters of Dr. Lillies, of
Armadale) is engaged to lawyer Leo Butler, of
Hobart. The paternal Butler is a partner in the
law firm, Butler, Mclntyre and Butler ; and pros-
pective bridegroom Lionel is being moved on to
Melbourne.
One or two engagements are keeping the gossips
busy. Miss Geraldine Orme, of Bendigo, has
received the usual ring from Leonard Lansell,
third son of the late George Lansell—that other
King George, of Quartzopolis. Also, Miss Kitty
Prendergast, only daughter of the Labor leader in
the Assembly, has undertaken to later on practise
housekeeping for Mr. J. E. Barron, of Glenferrie.
How are the mighty dispersed ! Two and a
half years ago, G.-G. Dudley arrived with a glit-
tering staff comprising Lord Richard Nevill,
C.M.G., Captain A. Hore-Ruthven, V.C.,
Captain Leslie Rome, A.D.C., and Private
Secretary Walter Callan. Later on, Cap-
tain Gilliat and Sir Alexander Napier joined
the group. Hore-Ruthven is now in India;
Gilliat has gone to Japan; and Nevill is
preparing to depart. There remain only Aides
Rome and Napier and Secretary Callan to cope
with local Coronation festivities that will cheer
us up in the chilly month of June.
Mrs. Howard, the widow of English ’cellist
George Howard, was given a friendly send-off
party by a group of Toorak matrons on Monday.
She goes to Marseilles in the Orontes, then on to
Paris. Twenty years ago, she came out to Aus-
tralia with her musician husband, who had been
one of the members of a famous London quartette.
He was consumptive, and had been driven forth
from the City of Dreadful Fog in search of sun-
shine. Our climate cured him completely ; but.
when he had won back his health, he was killed
during a summer holiday in the Healesville hills
by a fall from a horse. He had started a conser-
vatorium of music, and his widow pluckilv carried
it on for years till the strain proved too much.
Then she gave it up and taught her pupils at their
homes.
Brighton folk, with the Mayoress in the chair,
have resolved to provide the usual crowded and
fashionable audience for a dramatic entertain-
ment in aid of the Alfred Hospital. Unie Rus-
sell, formerly of the Knight-Jeffries Co., who
abides in the district, has undertaken to have the
programme ready in about a month’s time.
Daphne King, who defeated Lily Beaurepaire
for the swimming championship of Victoria at
the Brighton Ladies’ Swimming Club, is the
second daughter of the late Major King—which
also makes popular Ben Wardill her uncle.
Mrs. Watkinson and her daughter gave a fare-
well party bn Friday afternoon at Menzies’,
accompanied by contributed music from the plat-
form and sweet strains from the outer lounge by
De Gilio. The charmingly frocked party had an
effective background in the new grille decorated by
Blamire Young. Mrs. Watkinson, in a beauti-
fully-fitting black dress, received the guests
in the arched doorway. Daughter Ailsa,
tailored in grey, helped with good effect.
There were hosts of pretty, young girls on hand,
all friends of daughter Ailsa. So young were
they that they could not keep still when the band
outside was playing delightful two-steps. Some
were discovered in a quiet corridor, half hidden
by palms, merrily two-stepping, as though the
function were a dance. Mrs. Simon, who is a
great friend of the hostess, stage-managed the
musical programme.
Mrs., Oharbonnet-Kellermann, the well-known
pianiste and mother of the adorable Annette, is
heard of from Paris. She is musical critic to a
journal of importance in that city. Speaking of
the Kellermann family, there is a remarkable
likeness between Pantzer, the chief of the pan-
tomime acrobats, and Maurice Kellermann, a
brother of Annette, who was known both in musi-
cal and swimming circles in Melbourne.
S A cookery note from the Far North :
Have spent some years in the N.T., mostly in the bush,
and have sampled pretty well all the food there is. Kan-
garoo, either stewed tail or roast leg, is a dish for an epi-
cure. Jabiroo steak is excellent; so is parrot soup. Ban-
dicoot, young, is better than chicken. Iguana equals
pork. | Turkey and goose are somewhat tough. Jungle-
fdwl is leather. Ducks are very good, barramundi excel-
lent, and pigeon and quail delicious. Black and white
cockatoos are splendid in soup, and nearly all bush-birds’
eggs are great either for what we women call cooking or
for eating. Ibis are tender enough, but very fishy to the
taste.
The taxing of bachelors somewhere abroad
somehow reminds me of the girl in one of the
modern novels who confesses to her lover that she
is 25. “What matter,” fumes the youthful
lover, “if you are so aged?” “But,” sobs the
girl, “ the trouble is lam not merely 25. lam
still 25 ! ”
From “Rosna” of Adelaide :
The Bosanquet family went through part of our latest
heat wave at Lindsay Park, the 0. H. Angases’ motored
grange. While there, his Ex. safely opened the Angaston
Bhow.
The Royal Yacht Squadron struggled for the Kintore
Cup on February 18, the Gulf being on its best behavior
for the function. His Ex. and various high officials fore-
gathered inside the sumptuous white club-house on
Semaphore Esplanade. Then they pursued the race in a
launch, while a frocky public spread itself over the club-
house lawns, had tea and tried to look excited every
time a white speck hove above the horizon. Ultimately,
someone discovered that a speck called the Narallie had
captured the Kintore Cup, and that another speck named
the Shamrock had won the Le Hunte trophy.
Adelaide’s first woman doctor, Violet Plummer, has
taken a house on North Terrace, a medical stronghold
hitherto uninvaded by the sex. By the way, our veteran
medico, Dr. J. C. Verco, is shortly to marry Miss Mary
Mills. Her father, Mr. Sam Mills, of North Adelaide,
owns stations in various parts of the State.
The Max Maxwells leave the Royal at the end of
the week. They are taking away Jean Robertson and
Maude Plunkett, two amateur mummeresses, well and
favorably known in these parts. Jean Robertson is a tall,
fine-looking maiden, with a beautiful speaking voice ;
Maude Plunkett, a plump, emotional debutante. They
had a miniature part apiece during the company’s Ade-
laide season, but have been promised bigger fare in
Melbourne.
The Government is understood to have told King
George whom it would like “honored,” on the crowning.
Meanwhile lam thinking of sending a little list of my own
compiling, viz., Sir Patrick Weldon, K.C.M.G.; Lord
Clement Hill; Sir Willie Treharne, Bart.; Cardinal
Henry r Gainford ; and Baroness Rosna.
A lady arrived at the West Terrace Cemetery the other
morn, invaded the curator’s private premises, and ordered
him to exhume the body of her (the invader’s) mother so
that she could wash its face. She brought basin, towel,
etc. Her request was refused, and so she sat and talked
wildly of bribing the gravediggers. A curator of Adelaide
cemeteries is supposed to be nerveless. Anyway, in
putting an ornate iron fence round the gravery lately,
the Government cut off any private approach to the
curator’s dwelling. As a result, there is nothing between
him and the deep, new grave, so to speak ; and whole pro-
cessions of morbid-minded citizens may come and roost on
his verandah if so disposed.
A friendly British Duke has sent our Zoo a little pre-
sent of two red deer and tw'o Kashmir deer. There was
also a lady eland in the party, but she grew skittish
coming out and jumped oveiboard.
Another aged landmark, the Beehive Hotel, at Kes-
wick, which aforetime refreshed the thirsty meanderer
on the road to Glenelg, is being swept away to make
room for some railway obstructions. It was atkone time
kept by a man named Honey, and a wall still shqws these
lines: — \
“In this hive we’re all alive, '
Good liquor makes us funny,
If you’re dry, come in and try
The flavor of our Honey.”
As I write, Adelaide is holding out the glad hand to
Professor Lowrie, who has come back from the West to
teach our young agriculturists the way to shoot.
The Jenkin Coles’ second son, Harold, has announced
his engagement to Nurse Ryan, an indigenous product.
Nearly JLSB,OUO lias been advanced to 183 citizens since
the Advances to Homes Act came into force two brief
months ago. These shekels are to build or buy homes in
a land where rented dwellings are fast becoming as nearly
extinct as Mary Ann.
Mount Gambier has been warned to get its volcanoes
polished up in time for a vice-regal visit at the end of
March.
Sincerely yonrs,
JOHANNA.
Adelaide is always surprising the in-
quiring visitor. The other day Geo. Graham,
Weary’s Minister of Agriculture, took a look
round the Holy City. “They can teach us a
lot, he said, when he got back. “ All the farmer
has to do is to get his lambs or other produce to
the station and put them in a truck. The State
does the rest, even to giving him advances and
eventually forwarding him his cheque. All that
is wanted to make the chain complete is a Com-
monwealth line of steamers to Europe.” “All
that is wanted to make the farmers’ good fortune
complete is a Commonwealth line ” —what has
State Frights to say to that ? Is this the civil war
and destruction that is to happen when the
Commonwealth is empowered to go ahead a bit ?
“ H.H.” : While looking for something in
a file of the S. M. Herald I came across this,
published in a leading article of a few months
ago:—
Such financial ventures as the issue of paper currency
and the establishment of a Commonwealth Bank wiil
have behind them no support except what they can gain
from the infatuation of Ministers and their friends, and
such schemes are bound to be strongly resented by the
public at large.
As the Federal paper currency is now actually in
use, I hurriedly opened the window and gazed
down George-street, Sydney, to see if the people
had put up barricades or were otherwise express-
ing their powerful resentment. I didn’t hear a
single shot fired ; nor did I even hear anybody
’cuss beyond the average. What hopelessly in-
capable prophets these Tory papers are !
Again the Ancient Mariner :
The recent mishap to the Cufic in striking some sub-
merged object when dutward bound through Port Phillip
Heads, recalls a similar but more remarkable thing that
happened to the Black Ball liner Lightning over 50 years
ago. When going through the Heads, on a voyage to
Liverpool, the Lightning struck something so tangible
that she staggered. Retreat against an ebb tide was im-
possible, so the vessel had to continueon her course. The
pumps were set to work, in the full expectation that'
the hold was filling rapidly; but the captain
and crew were astonished when the pumps sucked dry.
The ship was hove-to outside the Heads, waiting for the
flood-tide to permit of a return being made to the har-
bor. When hour after hour passed by without any signs
of a leak developing, the captain determined to take the
risk and run on. When the vessel was docked at Liver-
pool a huge rock was revealed embedded in her bottom.
The rock was pinnacle-shaped, and had pierced right
through to the hold. If the ship had been built of iron
or even of hard wood, she would inevitably have
gone to the bottom. But it just happened that she
was constructed of soft wood, which swelled around
the wedge and held it firm. When news of the remark-
able discovery reached Melbourne, the rock she struck
was promptly located, and its position soon became
known to every pilot and exempt-master frequenting the
port. In recent years the Lightning rock and many
other pinnacles haye been, removed by blasting; and
until the Oufic struck some obstacle, the navigation of
Port Phillip Heads was believed to be safe, even for the
later heavy-draughted vessels. Nevertheless, a vessel is
liable to fall so low in a trough of the sea in the Rip that
the margin of safety should be placed beyond all doubt.
Hence!the continuance, when practicable, of the blasting
operations. There is a lot of justification for the pilot’s
remark that if the Cufic had struck a rock she would have
gone to the bottom. Probably, the obstacle she met was
the submerged wreckage of a wooden vessel with suffi-
cient floating capacity to be dragged along by the strong;
tide.


SCHWEPPES’ LEMON SQUASH.
MB
[V*
~L
ft
5
If
*sk
Always Order
SCHWEPPES’
Lemon Squash.
Made from
Fresh Lemons.
Purveyors of
Mineral Waters
to His Majesty
King George
V.
Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial
(Made solely from Montserrat Lime Fruit Juice),
Verse Competition Results. £4O Prizes.
THE AWARDS—
The Final Judge of the Competition writes as follows “ I have very carefully examined the one hundred and twenty verses which you submitted to me on
the.23rd ipstant, and which I return herewith. Generally speaking, the standard of the verses is high. But a large number, though otherwise of
considerable merit, are defective as regards metre, and do not in some other respects comply with the conditions which you prescribed. Indeed some
of the verses to which I have awarded prizes are not quite satisfactory in regard to metre. I am sure that your Verse Competition is affording a
generous encouragement to the latent poetical talent of the young people of Australia.” &
First Prize, £2O
The following are the awards
Second Prize, £B.
H. J. THURSTON, “Glengarry,” Thompson Street, Drummoyne.
“ What need for me to pledge my love
' In cups of Sparkling Wine,
When LIME JUICE CORDIAL made by SCHWEPPES
Is in thy glass and mine ?
Here too the luscious RASPBERRY
Its flavor sweet doth yield ;
O, blest be SCHWEPPES for evermore,
Thus, let our troth be seal’d ! ”
W. F. KAY, Good Street, Granville.
You sing of draughts of ruby wine,
brom some old vintage rare ;
You praise its power to cheer your heart,
And drive away dull care.
' SYIIUP give to me,
And LIME JUICE CORDIAL, pure and fresh
As crystal mountain stream.”
Twelve Prizes of £1 each are awarded in the following order
(1) L. ISHERWOOD, 41 London Street, Enmore.
“ Is ruby wine the draught I quaff,
My hot thirst to allay ?
Do I at Bacchus’ shrine imbibe
To drown the cares of day ?
No other drinks than SCHWEPPES’ I scoff.
To LIME JUICE CORDIAL, pray,
And RASPBERRY SYRUP, where’s the scribe
Can fitting tribute pay ? ”
(2) W. R. MELVILLE, “ Watawa,” St. Paul’s St., Randwlck.
“ Let airmen rise to dizzy height,
And sweep uncharted space ;
Put me on SCHWEPPES’ RASPBERRY track,
I’ll LIME JUICE CORDIAL trace,
No pause I’ll make, but swiftly glide
On fancy’s lightest wing, ,
To where Montserrat’s choicest gifts *
Are ever beckoning.”
(3) F. SAUNDERS, Box 1474, G.P.0., Sydney.
“ Drink to me, dearest, from this glass,
And I will drink from thine;
With LIME JUICE CORDIAL made by
SCHWEPPES,
We need no sparkling wine.
Let now the luscious Raspberry
Yield forth its sweetest juice,
Schweppes’ Syrup drink, and let us vow
Its everlasting use.”
(4) JAMES A. THOMAS, 64 Middle St., Ascot Vale, Melbourne
“ Pledge me in SCHWEPPES’, my worthy friend !
Their LIME JUICE CORDIAL’S grand,
To quench the burning pangs of thirst
In Austral summer land.
I’ll pledge thee, in return, in Schweppes’
j Pure Raspberry Syrup fine,
’Twill cool thy fevered aching brow
And bring relief to mine.”
(5) H. S. RANKIN, Post Office, Barraba.
“ Of all the drinks that e’er were quaffed
Since first the world began,
SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL stands
supreme
To quench the thirst of man.
And if this precious liquid boon
Perchance be not to hand,
A wise resolve at once you’ll make.
SCHWEPPES’ RASPBERRY demand.”
(6) Miss EMMIE J. JORDAN, “ The Cabin,” Church Hill,
Qoulburn.
“In LIME JUICE CORDIAL drink to me,
And I will pledge again,
In Raspberry Syrup, ruddy-hued
As rich old wines of Spain*
And while our luscious draughts we quaff,
The praise we’ll loudly sing
Of each delicious beverage made
By SCHWEPPES the Cordial King !”
(7) Miss FRANCES J. S. GREEN, St. Andrew’s School,
Vulture Street, S. Brisbane.
“SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL is the best
Of any human drink !
Their Raspberry Syrup runs it close,
’Tis sweeter, too, I think—
A nectar meet for gods and men
On sultry summer days !
Then try them, friends, and well I ken
You’ll further sing their praise.”
(8) Mrs. WINFIELD, c/o Mrs. McPherson, 535 Harris St., Ultimo
“ I ask no sip from lady’s lip
To make my draught divine.
If in it LIME JUICE CORDIAL drip
Or Raspberry, red as wine,
No rosy lass my cup need pass
With soft, persuasive hand,
I drain and fill again my glass
. ilf SCHWEPPES be but the brand ! ”
(9) HUGH R. McCALL, 98 Queen Street, Melbourne.
‘‘ Br ; n * to me only SCHWEPPES’ drinks,
His LIME JUICE CORDIAL’S gold ?
rnu . y °f Raspberry
I he wide-world o’er extolled '
* ri jTmif h me only SCHWEPPES’ drinks,
And 111 forswear all wine.
While high we fill our loving cup
To pledge old SCHWEPPES divine ! ”
00) “sydSy. K,RKPATR,CK . The Hospita!, Callan Park,
“ The light of LIME JUICE CORDIAL lies
in .glints of topaz bright,
Within the amber of thine dyes.
When SCHWEPPES’ draught’s in sight:
His Raspberry Syrup’s ruby gleam
Reflected from thy lips
Would make the holiest hermit dream
Of rose-leaves’ dewy tips.”
(11) MARY WILKIE, “Moruya,” Northcott Terrace, Newcastle
“ Here in a dry, drought-stricken land
We toil and sweat and tire,
Following each our daily task
At desk or furnace fire.
But we hot workers thirst no more,
For we’ve a fountain fine
In SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL
And RASPBERRY divine.”
(12) MISS CALLAGHAN, 160 Quay Street, Rockhampton.
“ ™ t s tempting me.” she cried,
* To take some other drink.
SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL is the best
Of all the bunch, I think.
I would not dream of asking you
To try another brand,
But taste this SCHWEPPES’ RASPBERRY
You’ll find it 4 beats the band.’ ”


A FASCINATING FORM.
How To Possess It.
When a pretty woman begins to grow fat rapidly
without any unusual indulgence in rich foods and
delicacies nothing should deter her from taking
immediate steps to get rid of the excess of fat; for
corpulency, when allowed to get a firm hold, is
likely to become chronic or, at least, extremely
obstinate. But in any case there is a sure and
safe remedy in the following recipe, which any
chemist will make up for her : One half-ounce of
JVlarmola. one ounce of fluid extract of Glycyr-
rhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P.,
and Peppermint Water to make up six ounces
irt all. The dose is two teaspoonfuls after each
meal. The reader will observe that there is
no secret about this harmless and wonderfully
efficacious remedy, which, day by day, will bring
about a progressive, healthful reduction withoutany
need for fasting or exercising, and form and figure
and complexion will very soon be beyond reproach.
Many ladies have a mistaken notion that a rapid
reduction of fat will mean wrinkles. This is cer-
tainly not the case with this mixture, which puri-
fies the skin through the blood and stimulates its
healthy action.*
In order to meet a constantly repeated demand,
the above prescription has been condensed in the
form of a compact and perfect tablet known as
Marmola Prescription Tablets, and those readers
who prefer them to the liquid form can obtain same
of any chemist, 3s. 6d. per box, or post free from
The Marmola Go., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.*
F,
ZMi+i
tmm
m
m
f'HERRY BLOSSOM gives a
most effective polish—bril-
liant, lasting and preservative.
It is quick, easy and economical
in use, and a satisfactory shine
for an v time of the year.
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT
POLISH comes in 3d. and 6d.
tins —Black and Tan—the largest
on the market at the price. If
you have any difficulty in secur-
it, write direct to us, and we will
see that you are supplied immediately.
Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ATTACKED WHILE WORKING.
“While at my work one morning, I was attacked
with severe griping pains in the stomach,” writes
Mr. David Howard, Sale, Yic. “I tried Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy,
and am pleased to say that it cured me in a few
minutes. Since then I have had several attacks,
and: have always used Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy with good results.*
Kidney Disease
And all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them
a trial. Price Is. Gd. and 2s. 6d.*
A man who looks a boy will only get a boy’s
sorew _ an d a hoy’s treatment. Life is mostly looking
the part—and a moustache is the main part of a man as
regards his looks. That’s where Capillarine comes in.
It makes a moustache grow—it doesn’t fool round about
it either—it starts the hair fairly sprouting out from the
upper lip. Capillarine is sold by Craig and Aitken, 654
George-street, Sydney. Get a jar to-day—and it will
give you a long, strong moustache, and a rise in your
screw in next to no time.*
HAD TO GIVE UP
SCHOOL TEACHING
This Girl's Health Wrecked
by Anaemia*
Her Mother Tells how She
was Cured*
An account of a young school teacher, who
became so run down in anaemia that she had to
give up her profession, is given by her mother,
Mrs. Annie Stuart, of Orsmond Street, Hind-
marsh, Adelaide. Mrs. Stuart consents to the
publication of the facts because her daughter was
completely cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
and the summer climate of Australia being so
trying for young people, the experience should
benefit a great number. Above everything, these
pills are for anaemia, as they actually combine
with food and air to increase the blood supply.
Mrs. Stuart, whose husband carries on an out-
fitter’s business nearly opposite the Bowden Rail-
way Station, said
“At about the age of 17 years my daughter,
who was a school-teacher at the time, became very
anaemic, and she became so bad that she had to
leave school. Her face became very pale and her
body wasted aw'ay. She completely lost her
appetite and suffered most excruciating pains in
the head and often in the legs. When her head
ached very bad, she used to come cold all over,
especially her hands and feet. Her nerves were
much out of order and she suffered neuralgic pains
in various parts of her body. One day my hus-
band brought home some boxes of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and my daughter started using them,
as she had been treated by the lodge doctor for
some time without benefit. In about a fortnight’s
time we all noticed an improvement in her health,
and she continued their use for some time, when
she became thoroughly cured, and she has never
had a relapse since. My husband has also used
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills with great benefit.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are 2s. 9d. per box, six
boxes 15s. 3d., of all medicine dealers, or from the
Dr. Williams Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Sydney.*
<s
It is essential
that a Truss
fits correctly—
for safety and
comfort. As
Specialists w e
ensure exact fit
in every case.
Our Special
Elastic Truss
gives perfect
safety and has
OENYER
©
Single 17/6;
Double 22/6
Call or Write.
no irritatin'' springs. DENYER BROS
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
or. Swanston & Lonsdale Sts.. Melbourne
A HOPEFUL DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dispute between Victoria and South Australia
respecting the disputed strip of territory on their borders
was further argued before the High Court yesterday.—
News item.
Across the span of dreamland’s arch
I saw the future races march,
A dim procession dark with fate ;
Japan came stealing to our gate —
That gate where never warning-bell
Roused the still-drowsing sentinel.
I heard a great Voice, rough with scorn,
Cry out: “ This is the Reckoning Morn.
Through the whole world the war-tide runs ;
Where are your men, and where your guns ?
Where the defences at your gates?
Where are the Federated States ? ”
A piping voice shrill answer brought:
“ The States is fightin’ in th’ Court 1
“ Day after day, hail, rain of shine,
They argues on some Boundary Line ;
It costs betwixt each set of sun
The price of many a heavy gun :
Their troubles ! See the lawyers throng,
And argue high an’ broad an’ long
The fateful Question (fat with fees) —
The Question of State Boundaries ! ”
“ And who are you ?” in stern contempt,
Cried the Great Voice as on I dreamt.
“ Me ! ” piped the little Voice, “You bet,
I’m the Compulsory Cadet!
Ain’t got a gun ’cos, fit to burst,
Tney’re arguin’ who'll make ’em first:
A.n’t got no forts to guard the sea
’Cosit ain’t settled whose they’d be ;
Ain’t got no Navy, ’cos of Wrongs
As to which port the boats belongs;
Ain’t got no trains, ’cos, wild with rage,
They’re arguin’ the railway gauge.
Meantime, while lawyers pleads an’ shouts,
I has a harmless game o’ ‘ Scouts ’ 1 ”
Once more I heard the Voice resound ;
But on the instant it was drowned
In thundering of guns and cries.
I saw the Yellow Wave arise,
Crash on Australia’s shores and sweep
Away in one untidy heap
Defenceless boys and arguing States;
The brown men swarmed through city gates.
I saw the High Courts, toppling, reel—
Watched, to the tune of lead and steel,
The States-Rights question there and then
Settled by alien fighting-men.
And when the smoke had cleared from view
The Commonwealth was “settled ” too !
N.S.W.
H. C. McKAY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
At just about the time when John Weary
was promising Judkins and the Worralists to go
round next session and do some cleaning-up for
them, the Port Melbourne and Essendon councils
were making indignant remarks about the dan-
gerous and insanitary condition of the State
schools in those suburbs. It appears that Billson,
Weary’s Minister for Education, though informed
some time ago of the urgent needs of the Nott-
street school at Port Melbourne, has not even
tried to make it safe; wherefore the Port Mel-
bourne Council threatens to presently advise the
parents to keep the youngsters from attending the
place. The situation is not quite so desperate at
Essendon. Certainly the school there is alleged
to be insanitary and overcrowded ; but, so far,
there have been no such threats of a strike.
These things suggest that, before Weary goes out
cleaning by the_day for Judkins and undertakes
to scrub Bourke-street white, he might tidy up
his own official premises a little. Even the bar-
maid might be allowed to stand over while the
public schools are made fit for habitation.
The Women’s Liberal League decided last
week to keep March 25, tiie anniversary of Mrs.
Molyneaux Parkes’s death, as “ Founder’s Day.”
If the sorrowful days are to be singled out for re-
membrance, the Liberal and Reform people can
hardly avoid marking off April 13 as “Foundered
Day.”
The other day John Weary was asked
whether he would follow Maoriland’s lead and
erect an arch in the Foggy City for the Corona-
tion. To which he curtly replied that the matter
was one for the Commonwealth. Thus even the
State Frighter moves—moves out of the way
when the sacred State Right is merely the right to
spend some money.
From Melbourne Argus (15/2/’ll) on the
timber stackers’ troubles :
In loyal obedience to Wages Boards—provided there be
loyalty on both sides —Victoria has found the quickest,
easiest and cheapest way of composing industrial unrest.
And that same day was published the statement
that the Argus had entered a formal protest
against the registration of the Australian Jour-
nalists’ Association, formed to provide “ the
quickest, easiest and cheapest way of composing
industrial unrest.” Most doctors hate medicine.
A move which may mean something is that
Lever Bros.’ projected branch in Japan is off for
the present. W. B. Gray, a young Scotch
analyst who has been in charge of the chemical
department at the big co.’s Balmain works, was
to have been manager. Instead, he has been sent
from Sydney to South Africa. Now, the Jap
tariff, which was Lever Bros.’ main reason for
going to Japan, remains as solid as ever. But
Capital keeps one ear glued to the diplomatic
keyhole; hence, a fair inference is that the big
soapboilers smell trouble, warlike or otherwise, on
the .horizon.
READY FOR ANY EMERGENCY.
Here we hare Bruce Smith loading up his top
hat, in anticipation of the outbreak of the civil
war he prophesies.
“ Yes (twice) ” : Attended the big meeting
field in the Town Hall, Sydney, last week, to
urge the necessity of using adults in the defence
of Australia, and was agreeably surprised (1) at
the Australian tone of the gathering; (2) the
amazingly Australian attitude of some avowed
State Frighters. The sentiments of several well-
known “Liberals” on the national spirit of the
Commonwealth were so totally opposed to Wade-
ism and Cookism as to prove conclusively that
only the glue of prejudice is holding the ricketty
Tory-Tingo calaboose together. The triumph of
the Australian View can’t be far off.
The North Sydney Municipal Council is
filled with wrath at the manner in which the
Sydney Ferries monopoly has been given an offi-
cial leg-up. This particular howl mostly runs
along the newly-laid tram-line from the Spit-road
to the Cremorne waterfront. The Council had
determined tha't it would, if possible, get control
of the ferry wharf at the sea end, so that it might
insist upon a penny fare to the city. So when
Johnson, of the Railways, told the Council, in
reply to a question, that the wharf area had been
already leased to the octopus, the uproar was like
the noise of a new boiler being riveted in
Gehenna. Twaddell, then Minister for Raiiways,
was appealed to; but no good came of it, and
soon Twaddell was emptied out.
Griffith, the Laborite, who then came in,
at once re-vested the wharf in the North Sydney
Council; but the octopus had got its tentacles on
to the structure until 1916. Johnson has been
asked why the wharf was let to the Ferries Co.
without anyone inviting competition, and also
why the property was leased without letting the
Council know. But Johnson continues to say
nothing in a loud voice. If he said anything at
all, he would probably ask North Sydney and
Mosman what they are howling about, and why
they elect anti-Sosh “Liberals” if they are
opposed to the anti-Sosh “Liberal” policy with
regard to wharves and the like.
The Sydney daily press continues to yelp
over a circular issued to Federal and State mem-
bers of Parliament. The circular informed the
M’s.P. that a committee had been appointed to
organise the “Yes” side of the Referendum (the
“No” side had been organised, and was in full
cry weeks earlier), and the committee wanted to
know when, where and how the M’s.P.
could assist the cause. It also asked the
M’s.P. not to make engagements for speak-
ing without consulting the committee, so
that there would be no overlapping of speakers.
On this business-like document the daily press
started a cry of “ Jacobinism,” “ dictatorship,”
etc. The raison d’ Ure of the circular was the
fact that, owing to mismanagement at last State
election, a numberof “bigguns” wereconeentrated
upon two or three electorates, and were falling
over each other and delivering 10-minute sprint
speeches, instead of being star performers in
different parts of the country. This time
it was found that one enterprising Federal
member had already made arrangements to
have a swarm of brother Federal and State mem-
bers at work in his electorate up to the polling-
day. So anxious was he that the question should
be carried on his dunghill that fie was prepared
to sacrifice the rest of N.S.W. to his local
patriotism. Had not the Referendum committee
interfered with promptitude, there would have
been an overwhelming “ Yes ” majority in Blank’s
electorate, at any rate; elsewhere, things might
have been different. Which no doubt explains
the annoyance of the distracted No-ers.
THE ANTI-FEDERALIST’S TOPHET.
THE NEWCOMER: “ And who is this?”
WHITEHEATUS : “ He was a leading State Riahler.”
THE NEWCOMER: “ And now?”
WHITEHEATUS: “He is keeping six fires going
instead of one.”
Now and then a bright speck of news
about the Women’s Liberal League glimmers in
the morning paper’s ash-barrel. That of 23/2/T1
contained one tiny pin-point of hope :
The organising secretary reported at the last meeting
of the council that the Albury League had been reformed.
The Bulletin is glad to hear it. It presumes
that the Albury League has sworn off the whole-
sale dispensing of afternoon tea and buttered
scones to female voters whereby the organisation
fractured the Commonwealth Electoral Act prior
to the wreck of April 13 last. Still, the Albury
spray or ostrich-tip may have merely decided to
swear off hobble skirts, injurious skin foods or
colored hair drinks. So until the exact facts are
made public, the rockets of rejoicing had better
be kept in the cellar and the paper lanterns left
unlignted.
The remarkable Mr. Judkins, who has
been mislaid for a few months, last week pro-
pelled himself into Premier Weary’s notice to
demand four immediate reforms, viz., (1) The
abolition of betting at sports meetings; (2) the
removal of vice from the streets of Melbourne
(this obviously applies to the jobbers outside the
Stock Exchange, unless Mudkins has a down on
motor-cars); (3) prohibition of Sunday entertain-
ments for private gain (which is manifestly meant
to hit the Pleasant Sunday Afternoons in the
eye); (4) the abolition of “ bona-fid.e travel-
lers,” barmaids and two-gallon licenses. Weary,
being something of a saint himself, was, of
course sympathetic. But though something of a
saint, John is still more of a sleeper; wherefore if
Mudkins thinks he has really accomplished any-
thing, he is even more foolishly sanguine than he
was when he prophesied a great victory at the re-
cent N.S.W. prohibition poll.
THE APPEAL TO THE ELECTORS’
INTELLIGENCE.
The people of this State will do well to listen to what
Mr. Wade and his supporters have to say, and to take
care then to wake up every sleeper upon whom hands
can be laid. . . . Many persons have not the slightest
conception of what the referendum involves. If they
would vote “ No ” to every question, as they should, no
great harm would be done, because they could thereby
show their faith in their leaders.—S.M. Hkkald.
The Wily State Righter : “Ho! ho! This is
the sort for us I”
From Melbourne Age (10/2/T1) :
Labor is not a national party nor a national cause.
Protection is so, and always has been. It is a species of
impertinence that a sectional party, one that is in office
only by a fluke, should assume the power to set aside a
great national policy.
So it appears that the Australian democracy had
no definite intentions at the last Federal elections.
When it scattered the Fusion and gave its votes
to the Labor party, it had not the slightest idea of
changing the Government—it just voted to give
Fisher a majority without a thought that Fisher
would use his majority to form a Ministry.
James Gardiner, a Westralian ex-Trea-
surer and one-time mem-
ber of a Government
that subsidised the
Julia Percy to run
from Perth to Gerald-
ton in opposition to
the Midland Railway
Co., has become the
Perth boss of the Mid-
land, and his voice
and his tune have
changed considerably.
The Ministry pro-
posed to build a rail-
way connecting two
Government lines—
the Eastern Goldfields
line and the Gerald ton
line, parallel to the
Midland, and 22 miles
from it. Thereupon
Gardiner wrote, demand-
ing justice. The Mid-
land Co. has made a huge
loss, and its debenture in-
terest is many years’ short-
paid ; and in its frantic efforts
to be stranded no higher, it in-
sists that the W.A. Government
should refrain from building rail-
ways in the Government’s own territory. The
nearer death they are the more impudent some
companies become.
One plank which was put in the fighting
platform by the recent Labor Conference in
Sydney is pretty sure to be given effect by the
N.S.W. Labor Government. It is the very fair
provision, borrowed from Maoriland that all
workers benefiting under an award obtained by a
union shall contribute to that union’s funds. This
would shut down on the mean individual who
hangs on to the vehicle, but sidesteps when asked
for a trifle to buy oats for the horse.
“ Yarraman ” : Struck a deserted Northern
Territory camp recently, and written in big letters
over the bunk were these good words :
This is the best country God ever made. If it isn’t., the
reason is partly because I’m not the sort of man I ought
to be, and I’m not doing: the work I ought to do.
Hope more Australians will have that message
pasted up where all can read it—especially the
Stinking Fish crowd.
Australia is only mildly grateful for the
announcement by Tudor, Minister of Customs,
that the Government is already taking measures
to prevent the American Meat Trust getting con-
trol of the dead-meat trade in Australia. For
years past there has been pretty much of a com-
bine—or perhaps two or three combines—to sup-
port and raise the price of beef and mutton. Had
these bodies been purely American the result
would probably have made no difference to the
public. If Tudor wants to preserve the meat
trade from the squeezing gtip, he might as well
turn his attention to what is being done under
the present anti-combine law, instead of propos-
ing new legislation to prevent What might be
done by the American Trust if it started in
opposition to the local dealers in live stock, who
have uttered the present cry of alarm.


s»
r
is
INI
Sames Pianos
DIRECT FROM
FACTORY TO
PALING’S
(SHOWROOMS.
Absolutely tbe Greatest of all English Pianos^^
Exquisite Models. Perfect in Tone and Touch.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
Old Pianos taken in Exchange and Full Value Allowed.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd..
338 Georg'e-street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE. BRISBANE. TOOWOOMBA.
Q£
<
O
LLJ
U— I
r
L
The New NON-
OILY J.kS.W. Hair Food
Owinp: to numerous men and women being unable to use an oily pre-
paration on account of their hair being naturally oily, Mrs. Stannard (John
Strange Winter, the authoress of “Bootle’s Babies” and other well-known
books) has now introduced a fine, Non-Oily Hair Food. The valuable pro-
perties of the well-known John Strange Winter Hair Food, which has been
used to advantage by so many, are retained in this new NON-OILY Hair
rood, only the oil being eliminated, and replaced by nutritive compounds,
which render the hair soft and glossy, yet not greasy. It is a delightful and
refreshing dressing, wards off that “bald spot,” freeing the head of dandruff,
and gives a good, healthy hair-growth, besides being an excellent Hair Food.
Price 3s. 6d.; Post Free, 4s.
The other John Strange Winter Hair Food is 2s. 6d.; Post Free, 3s.
Sold by Chemists and Stores. Write for “Comely Women” Booklet—free
John Strang'e Winter,
LONDON, PARIS and VIENNA.
Sydney Office: 82 PITT STREET.
Agencies at 225 Collins St., Melbourne ; and Bowman Buildings, Adelaide
CAPHLAMNE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
GROW A MOUSTACHE, SIR!
You are sensitive about your boyish appearance—you know your fellow men
speak of you slightingly as a mere strip of a lad—when, as a'matter of fact,
you are just as good a man as they. You look young, that’s all—those few
downy hairs on your upper lip discount you. Use CAPILLARINE and grow
a manly moustache go out into the world looking a man, a man among your
fellows. Oapillarine won’t fail you—hasn’t failed once after 30 years of use.
Just apply it at night—makes the hair sprout out long and strong.
10/6 Post Free in Plain Wrapper.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, makes the moustache a
nice shape. Worn at night. 2/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St*, Sydney
s
y
NEWEST EVENING
DRESS for
Gentlemen.
THE sombre black always associated
with Men's Evening - Dress has
been slig-htly relieved by two
welcome innovations*
Both Dinner and Dress Coats are
being - made with a velvet collar and
velvet cuffs, as shown in our illustration.
The other departure is a self-striped
Vicuna Cloth, which, when made up,
is decidedly effective.
Both changes are most popular in
London,
FARMER'S —ever foremost with
the newest Dictates of Fashion, with
five Skilful Cutters and a host of
competent workers —can guarantee
that perfect fit so essential in Evening Dress, j
The materials are SATIN FINISH VENETIAN, SOFT
VICUNAS, SELF-STRIPED VICUNAS & DRESS WORSTEDS.
Dinner Suits, from £4 15s.
Dinner Jackets, from 555. each.
Dress Suits, from 6 Guineas.
3=?
A
\
FARMER & COMPANY Limited,
SYDNEY.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
* BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 7 s., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.,
BUILDERS OF THE
Bristol BIPLANES
as used throughout Australia by
MR. J. J. HAMMOND,
and also by other World-Renowned Aviators.
Sole Agents for Great Britain and Colonies for
thec " GNOME Engines.
THE RUSSIAN ARMY HAS ORDERED
EIGHT BRISTOL BIPLANES.
For Exhibitions and Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne.
WILD AUSTRALIA.— SKUTHORP’S SHOW coming
to Sydney at last. —The Greatest Buckjumping
Show in the World is that of Skuthorp’s, where
some 60 head of Bucking Horses, Bullocks, Ponies and
Mules travel with the Show, and a number of the World’s
Greatest Horsemen, including that King of the Saddle
and Bridle, Lance Skuthorp. He who repeated Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s Leap, and rode Martini’s BOBS to
a standstill. The Proprietor of the Show has rented the
Royal Showground of Sydney, for Saturday, March
25. On that, day the full combination will perform.
And there will be a £5O prize for the Quickest Thrower
and Tier of a Bullock—the American Cowboys against
the Australian Stockmen. Also, £lOO prize for the Best
Buckjump Rider in Australia (for men), and a £5O prize
for the Best Lady Buckjump Rider ; and a £lO prize for
the Best Camp Rider ; £5O for the Quickest at Catching
and Saddling and Riding an unbroken Colt. The Pro-
prietor intends to take his Show all Round the World.
Horsemen and Horsewomen that can prove themselves
good enough to represent Australia on that day can be
engaged at a salary not less than £lO a week. All
Letters, G.P.0., Sydney.
When You Are Kept Awake
At night with that troublesome cough, remember
that it can be speedily relieved by Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
1910 MODEL
WITH
SYR U PING
RACK
Banker
AERATED WATER
Machine
Works like a clock.
MAKES AERATED WATERS
AT 3d, DOZEN.
Sold on Terms.
NELSON CARBONATINC CO. LTD.
167 George St., Sydney
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE .
NO PRESERVATIVES -
West Australian Agents'—RlCHAßD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOOBt-IE and CPOlt^§piE.
Brewery and Offices:
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
J. B. Moissant, the aeroplaner who was recently
smashed to death at New Orleans (U.S.A.), was 35 years
young when he met his end. But he had crowded a lot
of adventure between his 17th and 35th years. Although
born at Chicago, he was of French-Canadian descent. At
17, he went to the Central American republic of San Salva-
dor, to introduce the Edison phonograph. The Salva-
doreans liked phonographs, and he did well, and added a
photographic business to his establishment. But it was
deadly dull, and when his three brothers joined him they
began to cast round for some business with fun
in it. Their first venture was to buy the wreck
of the steamer Colon, near Acajuta, and as they
salvaged practically all the cargo, they made a swag
of money. J.B. then went in for sugar-growing
and started large salt works on the Salvadorean coast.
Then he turned his attention to revolushing, and his
$300,000 property was confiscated by the Government
because of some raid in which he had taken part. In
1907 he left the flyspeck republic, but returned on hear-
the Government had imprisoned two of his brothers. He
brought with him 800 well-armed men, landed 400 of them
in lighters, and attacked Acajuta. The commandant was
captured in the first fight outside the town, and the city it-
self was then bombarded, captured and looted. Cutting the
wires, Moissant spread terror by seizing half a dozen
other villages and driving the Government troops before
him into Sonsonata, which he also captured. Then his
career as a conqueror came to a sudden end through a
mutiny of his own men, and Moissant and his immediate
following had to cut their way through their own men to
the coast. He made for Panama, and there proceeded to
organise another army for the invasion of San Salvador ;
but the U.S. Government sent gunboats and suppressed
him. Moissant then returned to the United States and
took to aeroplaning—with fatal results. He is said to
have left £25,000 ; so evidently that sort of strenuous life
pays. Also, it is fairly evident that something more than
daredevilism is required to make aero, work successful.
# * * *
J. J. Hammond, of the Bristol aeroplane, is a
very daring man. The other day, having installed a new
Gnome engine, he took a 25-mile’flight at an altitude of
several hundred feet for testing purposes. “It ran with-
out a hitch,” he said sweetly when he came down from
the clouds, and never seemed to worry about where he
would have been had it run with one or more hitches.
One would have thought he would have tested a new
engine by skimming along the surface. But Hammond is
not built that way—he just soared. Of course, there is no
test like the practical one ; but he who makes it as Ham-
mond did is a brave man. Sense? We’re not talking
about that, only about courage.
* * * *
The latest caper in France is the Cycle Steeple-
chase, and this is the way they do it. The riders meet
at the appointed place, and are there told the exact
locality of the next checking station. The mob starts
off across country, each man taking the route he liketh
best, and on arrival at the second control, the name of
the next, which is generally a place where refreshments
are provided, is given, and the rush is resumed. The
first man home wins the race, and a fine, strenuous game
it is. The bike-makers and repairers are said to be very
enthusiastic about it; but, all the same, it would appear
to be great fun.
Jake de Rosier, Yankeeland’s crack motor
bikist, who is to meet Englishman Collier for the cham-
pionship of the world at Brooklands (England), will first
be seen in Britain as United States representative at the
Tourist Trophy Motor-Cycle Race, to be held in the Isle
of Man next June. This event was won by Collier last
year, and he will defend his title. De Rosier has made
his fame on the “ saucer ’’ track, and in the Tourist
Trophy he meets the best of the world under raw-meat
conditions. De Rosier’s machine is a 32-h.p. Indian ; it
is said to be the most powerful in the world, and capa-
ble of travelling over the 100. His match with Collier
at Brooklands will be a fascinating spectacle.
* * * *
The seekers after the new thing now propose to
drive cars, and any other machinery for that matter, by
compressed nitrogen. The stuff is to be carried in steel
cylinders at a pressure of 30001 b. to the square inch.
Small quantities will be let loose into an expansion
chamber where the pressure will be 1051 b. to the square
inch, and this will be utilised just as if it were steam.
The idea is an excellent one ; the question is whether the
nitrogen can be obtained cheaply enough, and whether
the cylinder to stand 30001 b. to the square inch can be
made light enough.
' * * * *
“ Q.C.” : There are no points about the motor-
cycle as a scouting-adjunct. Bulletin correspondents to
the contrary, a motor-cycle is absolutely tied to a road
or track. Besides, even a half-dozen machines would
make enough row to raise all the dead within five miles,
particularly in still, cold weather. Also, there is the
difficulty of petrol supplies in time of war. For some-
what similar reasons the aeroplane would be of little use
for inland scouting in any but plain country, as the
aerial scout would need to maintain an altitude of 3000
to 4000 feet for safety’s sake, and even then the clatter of
the engine could be heard over a wide area, and so give
the enemy’s scouts plenty time to get snugly hidden be-
fore the aviator spotted them. No ; our old friend the
’oss has still a long lease before him in the Great Game.
* * * *
N.S.W. amateur wheelist E. W. Schneider
made a mighty splash among the records last week at the
Country Carnival, run off at the Sydney Sports Ground.
He reduced the mile competition record from 2min. 3 1-5
sec. to lmin. 58 2-ssec. Next day he tackled the Austral-
asian unpaced amateur figures, and made a ghastly gap
therein. The quarter-mile fell to 26 3-ssec., a descent of
1 l-ssec. ; the half-mile from 60 4-ssec. to 55 4-ssec. ; and
the mile from 2min. 12 4-ssec. to 2min. 1 3-ssec., a lopping
off of 11 l-ssec. It was an amazing afternoon’s work.
On Saturday last, with his honors thick upon him, he
started for the land of Bull, where he will mix pleasure
and business into a profitable cocktail at the Coronation
sports gathering.
The victory of Nobel for the Bond Cup at
Caulfield, t’other Saturday, is said to have been worth a pot
of money to E. A. Connolly, the nag’s trainer, who backed
the half-brother to Solution and Gladsome as though he
had a dead-sure thing. All the same, Nobel only got
home by a short head, in the last stride, from Flavian,
who was conceding 81b. A “ good thing" at horseracing
is apt to be a horribly close shave for its backers. Yet on
the turf the agonies of hopes and fears are not long
drawn out, and the disappointments are merely brief
intervals in the pleasure of hope.
* * * *
Lady Lucy, the M.L. Cup winner, is having
bad luck in Victoria. The mare was not ripe for the Mel-
bourne Cup meeting, and now, owing to a mishap on the
track, she is scratched for all autumn engagements at
Flemington.
* * * *
Volume 31 of J. J. Miller’s “Racing Chronicle”
was published last week, and punters who regard the
book of plain facts and figures as the safest source of
“ information ” will be glad to get it before the V.R.C.
Meeting commences. The latest half-yearly issue of the
“Chronicle” brings “form” as far as Feb. 1, and gives
details of 746 race meetings which happened subsequent
to August 1 of last year.
* * * *
Easily the biggest Australian sporting event of
the week was the announcement of the A.J.C. that the
added money to the end of 1912 is to be increased by
£4BOO. There is no denying that the A.J.C. treats its
racing people royally'. This increase swells the total
money added by the club to the owners’ sweepstakes to
the enormous sum of £56,400; spread over seven meet-
ings, making an average of £BOOO handed out to horse-
owners about every 10 weeks. Big as the amount is, it
could probably be doubled and still leave a handsome
margin for other purposes if, instead of licensing book-
makers, the club ran its two totes; and not only would
the club be richer, but the public would get a
better deal and fairer prices. And, after all, the public
deserves some consideration. It is a thousand pities that
the big club does not use its powerful influence to bring
about the improvement. The plums that have’ been still
more heavily gilded are the Derby, which soars up by
£lOOO, and will stand at £5OOO ; the Champagne Stakes,
which jumps from £lOOO to £2OOO ; and the December
Stakes and Summer Cup, which bound from £5OO to
£lOOO. This should help to solve the problem of what
to do with our boys. Obviously, buy ’em geegees and set
’em going as racing men.
The decay of the neddie. Five years ago there
were 500,000 horses in London ; to-day they are reduced
to 110,000. The same tendency is observable everywhere,
and is very marked in Sydney where the hilly streets
make the employment of horseflesh a cruelty. Still, the
taxi-cab would catch on faster if the drivers didn’t try to
go so closely to the mid-street lamps and other obstruc-
tions, and if the meters didn’t race so furiously—especially
after midnight.
“ Not-at-All ”: “B” (B. 23/2/’ll) accuses me of
“ making a sorry defence of the Australian XI defaulters
who are building the score-sheet of the S’Africans and
filling the Australian pathway with thorns." My con-
tention was that no-balls are “now and again unavoid-
able.” “B” remarks that the first innings of the
Africans in the fourth Test disproves that. The total in
that innings was 205; and “B ” should know that about
80 per cent, of the no-balls which Cotter and Kelleway
bowl occur when the total has climbed past 300. The
reason is that a bowler, after deliveringa large number of
overs, makes a track near the bowling crease which causes
adrag. Ernest Jones, whom “B” calls “a better and faster
bowler” than Cotter, did bowl no-balls. Besides, Jones,
in my opinion, was a “ chucker,” and in the’99 and 'O2
trips to England he could not bowl more than one over
in several matches owing to various umpires “calling"
him. That was why he was not picked in the 1902 Tests.
And Jones was not nearly as fast as Cotter, either,
although all critics! agree that the latter’s delivery is
perfection. The chief reason why S’Africa presents the
. Australians with but few no-balls is that they possess no
bowler with the pace of Cotter or even Kelleway.
* * * *
The unseemly walloping inflicted on S’Africa in
the fourth Test keeps the “ashes” in the Common-
wealth, but destroys much interest in the rest of the
tour. The thing has lost the lure of an undecided gamble
—which is a deadly thing from the gate point of view.
Of the four matches decided Australia has won three.
On the showing Africa has hardly attained international
status. Australia’s tally was 2913, an average of 41.-61
per wicket; while Africa made 2218, an average of 27’72
per stick.
* * * *
Some of the bowling averages of the four Tests
are worth preserving. For Australia, Hordern, in one
match, took eight wickets for 104 runs, an average of 13.
But the labors of Whitty were tremendous: 1164 balls,
50 maidens, 31 wickets for 534 runs—an average of 17'22.
Australia can, therefore, lift its head-gear to the
left-hander as the man who did most to keep the
“Ashes” at home. Cotter’s 20 wickets represent an aver-
age of 26'95 ; but how did he work to get it! Armstrong
took eight at an average of 56'12, Kelleway six at 56’66,
while Macartney’s solitary stick cost 143 runs. On the
African side the surprise effort was that of Pearse,
wickets at an average of 18'66. Then a long jump
arrives at Schwarz with 18 for 31'22, Llewellyn with 12
at 35'33, while of the balance the less said the kinder.
The Australians were not appalled by the
bowling horror, the googlie. In every completed
Test innings the Australians passed the 300 tally, while
the Africans exceeded 300 in but three of eight efforts.
Trumper (twice), Hill (twice), Bardsley and Armstrong
accumulated six centuries for the Kangaroo. Faulkner
(twice), Snooke and Zulch made four for “the home of
the floods and thunder.”
With the bat Trumper leads a wonderful Aus-
tralian list with a mighty average of 92'66, and emergeis
champion of champions. Bardsley goes to bed with 62'8E»;
Hill 58'85, Armstrong 58'57, Ransford 44'57 and Kelleway
44:50 are the best of. the rest. For Africa Faulkner leads
with 73'50, and far below him is Nourse with 45'50. The
rest are in the soup. In fact, only Faulkner, Nourse and
Snooke amassed,more than 200 runs each in the four tests,
whereas Gehrs and half a dozen other Australians eclipsed
the same mark. On the batting averages Bailey’s band
came to Australia with very bubbly pretensions.
All the same, G. A. Faulkner pockets the
highest Test-match average ever amassed by a visiting
slogger in Australia. In eight innings he scored 588 runs
(which is also the best Test match aggregate for all
players in this season’s matches), an average of 73'50 per
innings. Faulkner is of the right stuff, and a mighty
cricketer before all the gods.
Melbourne pennant cricket was continued on
Saturday. University met Melbourne and made 337 for
six sticks. To that score Hartkopf contributed 166 not
out. South opened against East with 352 all told, Deas
accounting for 130. North against Fitzro.v totalled 344,
Spencer and Stuckey being the “ stars.” The pair com-
piled 116 and 95 respectively, and gave a redoubtable
batting display. In the way of bowling the most
mischievous trundler was Robertson, of Carlton. His
record was seven for 33, and Essendon batsmen were his
victims. Essendon were all out for 77, and patted up the
runs with great trepidation.
* * * *
Miss Fanny Durack, of Sydney, broke the
ladies’ swimming record for 220yds. at Brisbane, the other
day, when she won the Championship of Australia for
that distance. She got over the furlong in 3min. 6 4-ssec.
Miss M. Wylie, of Coogee (N.S.W.), who was the former
champion, was only third. Miss Springfield, who belongs
to a well-known Queensland swimming family, being
second.
* * * «*
Champion swimmer Frank Beaurepaire has
accepted John Weary’s offer, and henceforth will toil at
teaching the young Victorian (when he can be found) how
to swim. The choice is an excellent one, and the only
disturbing element is the riot among the barrackers as to
whether “ Bogey ” will in future be an amateur or a pro.
* * * *
Champion in deed as well as name ! Maoriland
amateur swimming premierships at Wellington, the
place where it blows sixteen different ways at once, and
where rain, sleet and snow fall together, were mostly a
gift to a young gentleman whose visiting card bears the
device, M. Champion. There were plenty of competitors,
but Champion got away with the 220yds., 440yds., SBoyds.
and one-mile events. C. Brice chipped in for the 100yds.
and C. Atkinson thr 220yds. breast stroke. But these
were mere diversions. Throughout the meeting the local
records were breaking all the time, and the book is in a
state of chaos. Maoriland is apparently awakening to
the fact that it is time its records were polished up a bit.
* * * *
“ Dumper” : What is the record distance for a
surf “shoot”? On a recent Sunday at Manly (N.S.W.)
a chap came in about 300yds. with the aid of a board.
Have seen C. Smith, of Manly, do about the Same dis-
tance (with board); also Rirke, of Manly. The latter
shoots with his arms outstretched as though he were
grasping a board. In the old method of shooting the
breakers the head was kept down ; but this was found to
retard progress. Now, the expert, just as he is curling
with the wave, gives a wriggle forward, bringing his
body out of the water. He is able to see where he
is going and breathe, thus lasting longer on the wave.
The head is buried near the finish of the “ shoot.” And
the bodies of the inexperienced asses who try the foolish
game will be buried all over the shop.
* * * *
Something like a record has been put up by G.
Ellis, an amateur marksman, at Collingwood(Vic.). Firing
the other day ata miniature range, with a half-inch bull’s-
eye, he got 34 “bulls” in succession. J. Kelly and F.
Kelly, jun., who attempted to do better, followed with
25 and 24 “ bulls ” in as many shots.
• * * *
London has now 6000 taxi-cabs, of which about
5000 are plying for hire in the streets. It is estimated
that they average about 50 miles each per day, which
gives 250,000 miles per day and 91,250,000 miles per year.
If the earnings are fixed at the low figure of 255. per day
each, it means that at least £2,281,250 per annum is
spent on taxi-cabs in London alone. The cabs
cost about £2,177,000; the driver took £670,000
last year, petrol ate up £228,000, and renewal
of tyres blotted out £500,000. Then there must be
added the cost of garages, machinery, spare parts, etc.
So what sort of an industry has the invention of the
petrol motor brought into existence ; and also what sort
of a field does the same industry offer to the young, ver-
satile mind that can devise meansof cheapening the cost!
There’s millions in it, so get busy.
* * *
Hagney, the ex-cyclist, started his sculling
career most ingloriously. The young man may have
been merely flurried ; but, to the impartial onlooker, it
certainly seemed as though he was introducing into the
sculling business the methods that killed professional
cycling. His opponent, George Day, of the Clarence
River, whom be was racing for £5O, failed to dis-
play the wisdom of the serpent, with the result
that he fell in with a loud splash and lost to
a man whom he could probably have beaten right
out had he possessed enough horse-sense to know when
to keep out of the wet. Several excellent starts were made ;
but Hagney would stop pulling, and back they would
go and do it all over again, till the thing grew wearisome.
And when they did really start Day got the best of it by
a good 10 feet. How it affected the scullers writer
knoweth not; but it made the spectators as angry as
bulls in'fly-time.
However, they got a start, and both sculled
beautifully. Hagney cut down the distance between
them, and passed Day, and they both headed for mid-
stream, which was at flood tide. At Uhr’s Point Hagney
was half a length to the good. Also, he was sculling ex-
cellently. Day settled down to the Fabian system, and
hung on comfortably letting Hagney make the pace.
And he made it all across the stretch to the mile beacon
on Blaxland’s Point, where he slowed down, and, looking
as though he were done, floundered right in under
the point. Then came Day’s folly. Instead of
streaking on, he idiotically went in after Hagney,
till, to avoid a foul one of them must have
gone inside the beacon into about a foot of water.
Day was, of course, hopelessly wrong, and had fooled
things by trespassing in Hagney’s water. Then Hagney
made a great and sudden effort, and caught and banged
his scull over Day’s. Then he stopped pulling and waited
for the verdict, but was told he must pull over the course.
Day rowed leisurely away, 'wondering what sort of an
imbecile he was ; and at the end of the jaunt, Hagney, of
course, got the verdict. It was a deplorable exhibition.
* * * *
For a thoroughgoing concern that knows how to
deal with bookmakers commend us to the Broome (W.A.)
Turf Club. Exclusion might have led to litigation, so the
club gently intimated that the annual license fee for the
right" to call the odds and fleece the public would be £5OO.
So far there are no applications.
* * * *
Australian amateur champion Cecil McVilly
has added the Tasmanian sculling bauble to his long list
of glories by defeating Fred Ooverdale. Coverdale was
quite overwhelmed. McVilly was till recently under the
grindstone of George Towns, of Sydney, ex-world cham-
pion, and George put a beautiful polish on him before
returning him to Appleland.
* * * *
Died in S’Africa William Over, a well-known
Victorian cricketer of yore. He was one of the identities
of the Richmond Club 20 years ago, and was included in
Victorian elevens of the period.
There was immense joy in Paris over the beat-
ing France gave Scotland at Rugby football last month.
It was only by 16 points to 15, and the Scotch had most
of the science, but the Frenchmen had the pace. E. H.
D. Sewell, writing on the game, declares that the British
Isles probably have no player equal to Failliot, of Paris,
who is fearless and very fast, stands over 6ft., and weighs
13£st.
** ; * *
Details of the Lang v. Curran fight and parti-
culars of poor Bill’s explanation of his foul blows in that
brief encounter must have prepared all thoughtful
students of the game for his ignominious defeat by Sam
Langford. It seems that the nervy Australian had lost his
head entirely when he bore down on Curran and bullocked
him against the ropes. Asked why he hit the man whilst
he was preparing to rise, Lang confessed that he didn’t
know the man was down. He thought he was on his feet.
In short, Bill had been swiping blindly from the moment
the gong sounded. When he came to try conclusions
with Langford, his chance was nil. He couldn’t rush the
negro against the ropes. The nigger downed him and
downed him again, and was apparently going for a clean
knock out, in the sixth round, when he slipped and fell
on his knees. Whereupon Lang hit down at the un-
guarded woolly head, and was disqualified once again.
Doubtless he struck the foul biff in ignorance of the
situation —thought the man was on his feet; didn’t know
he had slipped ; saw a black object in front of him and
hit at it. The wonder is that he managed to avoid
biffing the referee.
* * * k
The Yankee papers gave their readers some
amazing stories of old Jem Mace when he pegged out. A
N’Yark paper gravely asserted that the deceased “at one
time had 350,000 dollars in the bank, representing his
earnings in the prize ring.” The same imaginative journal
professed to quote the words of Jem himself: “A quarter
of a million pounds I have taken out of the prize-ring, and
all gone." Mace never talked such nonsense. Theprize-
ring was a discredited institution when he figured as its
chief ornament, and a fight rarely brought more than
£lOO or so to the winner. Those were not the days of
boxing gloves and gate money. No bruiser of the old
school was ever worth £5OOO, nor did the professors of the
Noble Art ever dream of accumulating wealth outside of
a pub. Their ambition was to get fairly set up in a
“ joint,” and drjnk happily ever afterwards. Mace was
in the prime of life when he came to Australia and in-
vested his bit of money in a pub at Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, where he lived on his notoriety for a while.
When he returned to England he probably took as much
or as little cash out of this country as he brought into
it. He tried bookmaking in a small way ; but he had no
head for figures, and he wasn’t a capitalist (or he would
have bought a partner with brains to put into the busi-
ness), and so he failed at that. In his time he tried
every available means of turning an honest quid ; but at
no period was he within easy distance of a solid income
from property. When the writer first saw Mace he was
still the nominal champion at his played out game, and
he was then earning a few pounds a week by appearing at
Sanger’s Circus in London. His champion belts and
trophies were arrayed on a table, and he came forward
and expanded his bemedalled chest to the gaze of the
audience. But as a circus “ turn ” the world-renowned
champion Jem Mace didn’t cut much ice, anyhow. The
world was wiser then than it is in these Jack Johnson
days.
* * * *
It is hard to say why the two bantams, Hill and
“Young Hanley,” were staged at the Stadiurti (Sydney)
last week unless it were to give a lot of local barrackers
a chance to help Mclnsplosh keep the wolf from the stage
door. The youngsters showed no more than good
gymnasium form, but Hill spoiled much of his pro-
mising style by a cheap imitation of flash Clab-
byism—which nod should be as good as a heart-
to-heart talk to an intelligent boy. After 20
rounds of peace and goodwill, “Snowy” Baker, who
ought to let somebody else handle the juvenile triers,
announced Hill the winner on points. And Baker was
right, though there was not very much to choose, and
the fact that “ Young Hanley ” has on two previous occa-
sions been given the victory over Hill is no proof that the
then officiating M’s.O. were not as clear-sighted as Baker.
“0.K.”: Sundry Bulletin paragraphs re the
demolition of the Queen’s Hall in Bourke-street (Mel-
bourne) would represent that aged but unvenerable place
of entertainment as having been always a music hall;
and the writers, whilst reminiscing of the way-back years
when it was called “ Tilke’s,” overlook the fact that it
was long known in more modern times as the Victoria.
Under that title it was alternately a music hall and a
boxing hall. Many a fine pair of female legs in tights
has capered on the stage of the Vic., and many a bare
pair of hemale limbs has performed on the same boards,
or on a special stage erected in front of where the foot-
lights used to be. Hundreds of notable pugs of their time
have fought and bled in the Victoria Hall. Mick Nathan
starred there of old. Jack McGowan made his debut there,
and was its most popular identity. Heggarty boxed often-
times at the Vic. ; and Bill Lang—Australia’s present
champion—remembers it as the place where he received
his baptism of professional stoush and got his nose
smashed by -Bob Fraser. Our colored brethren figure
freely in its sporting annals. Starlight, Peter Felix,
Pluto and Teddy Savril gave and received much punish-
ment at the Vic. ; and there it was that Buttan Singh
wrestled Pagel, the big German, who cried “Enoff!”
when the wily Indian threatened to break his leg if he
didn’t go flat on his back. The old Vic. had two histories,
and its stoushing history is the better known to the
fathers of the rising generation.
* * * *
That the horse is about to find himself sacked
from the commercial side of traction is an absolute surety,
and the day of the little one-horse delivery cart is fading
to its close. In England, Yankeeland and Australia the
vast motor lorry is the order of the day, and people
whose business does not justify them keeping a lorry of
their own are making arrangements with other
firms to take charge of their delivery busi-
ness. In Yankeeland they 1 have carried things
to an amazing pitch. There the motor lorry has two
bodies, and while one is delivering goods the other is
being loaded up, and the full one is slipped on when the
other one comes back empty. By this means the motors
are kept going all the time and used to the very limit of
possibility. All large Yankee towns have regular
delivery services, and a comparison of accounts
shows that, worked on a large scale, delivery
by motor is not only much more expeditious
than delivery by horse, but also much cheaper. In the
country, too, the farmer finds it cheaper and more
effective to form a little ,co-operative motor company to
serve a limited number of farms. Each farmer keeps a
duplicate body, and loads it as required ; then, on agiven
day, the motor comes round, picks up the body, and
whirls it away to its destination. As it always leaves an
empty duplicate body behind, time and money are saved
all the while.


THE
(fapSJ
SHOE
LOOK FOR NAME IN STRAP
[»I«
Dishonest Dealers ?. e n u a * e e
less; ’’variety of shoe and pretend that
it s a Marshall.” That’s why we are
pounding away telling you to “ Look
for Name on Strap."
"Marshall" Quality (guaranteed),
18/6 to 27/6.
“ Klim-ax ” Quality (No. e Grade
12/6 to 18/6.
HALF & QUARTER SIZES.
Stocked by all GOOD Dealers. It net
by yours, write us and we will send
Style Book & name of nearest Dealer.
Marshall Shoe Co.,
Richmond, Vic. 280
The Winter Wood
Supply, Mr. Farmer.
When getting your supply of wood for
Winter-*-with, a Saw Bench like the
above you’ll finish in a fraction of the
time it takes you to saw with a crosscut.
Over 200 sold last season to farmers
desiring to save time and money.
Price £l2 10s.
These Benches embody many improve-
ments —fully described in our 256-page
Catalogue of Farm Tools and Requisite's,
sent post free. Write for it.
Thomas McPherson $ Son,
Established 50 Years.
582-588 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
£1573(18/9
aca penny a sinile, the cash value
0? The Wayback Series. (
The “MOTA” (Regd.J .
r+~
The “ Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking:, driving: or riding:, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota ” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h.p. Chalmers
£490
5-Seater
Touring Car.
40-h.p. THOMAS,
6-Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
Sf*
Xb
101! Antarctic Expedition.
CAPTAIN R. F. SCOTT, R,N.»
CHOSE
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT;
Why?
Because he took (I to the snows of Norway and acttlal>
tried il on his snow sledges before he' would trust
hiraseJf to use il in the unknown Arctfo Regions,
Its perfect purity—
that’s the point I t
«“BRANDTS
ATMosLirr
Gas Machine/
*TJKnNUTS
ATMO5Lirr
Gas Machine
Air-Gas
Machine—
BRANDT’S
ATMOSLITE.
For Lighting- and Cooking.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., LTD.,
Lamphouse,
236 Pitt St., Sydney; also
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A LETTER o/APPRECIATION
“ I hiive ridden over miles and miles of the roughest roads in N S W
have tried many different makes of cycles, and given all a fair trial' but I
have more faith in my B. & B. every time [ ride it.
“Eric H. Cronberger, Kangaroo Valley.”
You would like a machine as reliable as this. Why not have it—.£ll
the price Our Pitt Street Depdt is open till 9 pmi. on Fridayfif you
cannot call in to see one during the day. Or write for catalogue. *
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largest Oyeltj-Building- House in the State, C„ « „
antl Castlereagti Street, «yflflGy.
Send for a Copy of -
the Rig'ney Shoe Catalogue.
Every man interested in High-Grade Footwear should send for a
Copy of our new Catalogue.
It enables those gents who live in the Country to fill their foot-
wear requirements satisfactorily by mail.
£ropus a Postcard to-day asking for a copy.
The Shoe illustrated is a Black Phoenix Calf Derby.
19/6, 21/-, 22/6.
Also in Tan, 23/6 and 25/*
Ditto in Boots. Postage 9d. extra.
... _!•«
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., Sydney; and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney.
Please 'note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal mimae-einent
Mr. F. O. Rigney, the sole and only proprietor of the above flrm g
Free Storage
for Your Wheat
We possess one of the finest Grain
Stores in the Commonwealth, and if
your wheat is sent to us before the
end of February, for sale, can allow you
four months’ free storage in Sydney,
if desired. Take advantage of this
offer, and be in a position to profit
by a rise in the market. Our selling
charge ' is 2yi / commission only.
A. M. L. F. CO. LTD.
Blight St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wool, Produce and Grain Salesmen.
B. B. ALLEN, Wool and Produce Manager. JAMES KIDD, Manager.
Also at MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The financial bearings of sectarianism on
the medical profession were persistently referred
to during the hearing of a Melbourne law-suit.
One doctor of medicine sued another for damages
in connection with the sale of a practice, alleging
that it isn’t as good as the vendor said it was,
whereas the vendor denied that any misrepresen-
tations were made. Both sides testified to the
fact that the purchaser had wanted to know, as an
R.C., whether his marriage with a Church of
England lady would prejudice his business, and
had been satisfied with the assurance that the
vendor was also tin R.C. who had married a Pro-
testant, the wife in his case being Scotchbyterian.
Listening to the evidence as to whether Roman
Catholic pills and potions are acceptable to Pro-
testant aches and pains, and whether the fact
that the doctor has a Protestant wife is prejudi-
cial to a cure in a case of R.C. mumps, the usher
may have remembered Sergeant Willis, in
“ lolanthe”—the gentleman who couldn’t get away
from the thought that, Every boy and every gal,
who’s born into this world alive, Is either a little
Liber-al or else a little Conserva-tive. Just the
same, it seems, in religion—
Each father, mother, uncle, aunt,
Or child who happens to be sick,
\ Is either a blessed Protestant,
Or else a blessed Catholic.
Tra-la-la-faA /
H. J. Diddams, Brisbane’s moderately
new mayor, is a Maorilander, born in Auckland
in 1864. He learned the printing trade on the
Auckland Stab ; in 1888 he migrated to Mel-
bourne, where he joined McCarron, Bird and Co.;
and later on he established a branch in Brisbane.'
Diddams was something of an athlete in his
younger days, and could kick a football nearly as
well as 0. G. Wade, M.K.H.
The squeal of the big Tory land-owners in
Victoria, and especially those in the Western dis-
trict, can be heard from Dan to Beersheba. They
have at last struck a tax which they see no way of
dodging. And, worse still, they have put evi-
dence against themselves in the Government’s
hands. A few years ago, during the agitation for
the bursting of the big western estates, every
deputation that waited on the Premier to urge
purchase was metj with a sheaf of leases to show
that tenants were giving 10s., 11s. and 12s. rent
per acre for the land, and these leases always
blocked the closer settlement movement. Now,
these documents are the rock on which the landl
lords split; because land which was leased at 14s.
and 16s. an acre a year can’t very well be valued
at £3 or £4—the price the trusty land monopolists
would now like to mention.
DUNLOP
VJ
\ w .
V
V-lAJ
f /
lajXAAaJ
-^PXjtAJL
o/
/'n
T
UM
dJu&MSi
s
Ctw-cf
-^UaXX
t-Cußr
hf
£e
JA.
MOTOR TYRES
For Wear®
Reliability.


10/6
A. SAUNDERS GIFTS
10/6
. sA
ALL ONE PRICE AND ALL
ONE QUALITY THE BEST.
IN OUR CATALOGUE —SENT POST FRgg TO ANY ADDRESS.
THOUSANDS
OF OTHER 10/6 GOODS
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Pure
Silver-plated Frame, Fancy
Floral China, 10/(».
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver
Tinted Crystal Glass,
10/G
A. GAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING GET,
Revolving Bevelled
Mirror, Full Bristles
Brush, Nickel Bowl, with
Porcelain Lining,
10/0
A. BAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET BOOK, Seal
Leather, Silk-lined, Pure
Silver Corners and Shield, with
Perpetual Calendar,
10/6
A. GAUNDERS.
Oct Gold LINKS,
A. BAUNDERS.
Oct Gold MEDAL,
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Amethyst
and Pearl Set
Heart CHARM,
10/G
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCH
BOX, Nicely Embossed,
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Wishbone and
Pearl-set Spray BROOCH,
10/6
A. LAUNDERS.
Oct Gold,
set Pearls and
Rubies or Sap-
phires,
A. GAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Prince of Wales” Necklet.
10/6
A. GAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Forget-Me-Not” BROOCH,
10/6
10/6
WE
PROVE
YOUR
SATIS-
FACTION.
A. BAUNDERS.
Pierced Solid Silver
TOILET MIRROR,
Plush Mounted, Heart-
shaped, Bevelled Glass,
10/6
A DAINTY
GIFT
10/6
10/6
10/6
A. LAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Juvenile Curb BRACELET,
10/G
10/6
10/6
/
A. BAUNDERS.
Gent’s Nickel or Black Open-face Key-
less Lever WATCH, Patent Crystal Glass,
Dust and Water Proof Cases, Strong and
Accurate.
10/6
YOUR ORDER WILL
BE SENT
RETURN MAIL.
10/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE
WE GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION.
10/6
A. BAUNDERS.
FRUIT DISH, Pure Silver-plated Frame, Fancy Floral
China Dish, 10/6
Reg N? 350.
A. BAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Map of Aus-
tralia BROOCH, set
Rubies or Sapphires,
10/G
A. GAUNDERS.
Oct Gold CHARM,
Cluster-set Diamond,
Red or Blue Stones,
10/rt
A. GAUNDERS.
dct Gold Band
RING, set Red
or Blue Gtone,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS, Set
Garnets or Topas
10/6
A. LAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open-face
Keyless WATCH, Strong
aond Accurate,
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
FEK.n POT, Pure Silver
plated, Handsomely
Embossed, size B£in,
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar and Circle BROOCH, set
Red or Green Stone.
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH,
Solid Silver,
, Handsomely
Embossed,
Hard White Bristles,
10/6
YOUR
BROOCH
WILL
BE
SENT
RETURN
MAIL.
10/6
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON
THESE
GOODS.
A. GAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND, Pure
Silver-plated, 5-Branch,
Red, Green Opal Glass
Tubes,
1 0/6
A. {SAUNDERS.
DOUBLE EGG STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, with Spoons
to match,
10/0
10/6
wn
rsrv
KS
A. SAUNDERS.
BOENT SPRAY, Solid Silver
Top, Hobnail Crystal Cut
Glass, 10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco
Covered, Pure Silver-
plated, Screw Top,
10/6
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
AFT-ERNOON TEASPOONS and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated, in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver
Double Albprt. 10/6
- y a
A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT CARVERS, Finest Sheffield Steel, with Xvlonite Handles, Knife, Fork, and Steel,
in Velvet-lined Case, 10/6.
10/6
a
'AifaurndmA, %
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON and RUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Engraved, XO/o-
JEWELLER,
UtfCtjs CIO CH
tk MAKER Z
m
k\
1
807.809.811.813.815.817. GEORGE ST. ( Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
cO HSULT7# c i
COPTICIM.J


Abridged Prospectus
of
AMALGAMATED HILL END, LTD.
To be incorporated under the Companies Arts of New South Wales
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO, in 500,000 SHARES OF 4s. EACH.
PUBLIC ISSUE, 400,000 SHARES.
PURCHASE PRICE, 103,000 SHARES and £lO,OOO CASH.
WORKING CAPITAL, £?0,000.
MANAGING DIRECTOR: J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Other Directors to be appointed after Registration.
ACTING SECRETARY: H. S. LAND.
AUDITORS : STARKEY ancl STARKEY, Chartered Accountants.
SOLICITORS : LOBBAN AND LOBBAN, Equitable Building.
HEAD OFFICE : EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY.
BANKERS : COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, Ltd.
BROKERS: SYDNEY
MELBOURNE...
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
BENDIGO
BALLARAT
KALGOORLIE
GYM PIE
CHARTERS TOWERS.
APPLICATIONS CAN BE SENT
THROUGH ANY MEMBER OF ANY
AUSTRALIAN STOCK EXCHANGE.
APPLICATIONS CAN ALSO BE MADE
TO THE SECRETARY, AMALGAMATED
HILL END, Ltd., EQUITABLE BUILD-
ING, SYDNEY.
Shares will be issued 2s. on application, 2s. on allotment.
ALREADY there are many applications for shares, including one for 25,000 shares. The placing
of 61,500 shares has been guaranteed without underwriting commissions. It is evident that
the issue will be over-subscribed, consequently the above and all other applications will be
dealt with pro rata.
The share list will be opened on the 22nd February (instant), and close on the 22nd March
(proximo), to enable this Prospectus to reach distant Australian goldfields.
All contracts entered into by the Vendors, and Memorandum and Articles of Association, may
be seen by intending purchasers at the office of Messrs. Lobban and Lobban, Solicitors, Equitable
Building, Sydney.
THE AMALGAMATION.
AT LAST the famous Hawkins Hill gold claims have been consolidated, and are now offered to
the public as the Amalgamated Hill End, Ltd.
OR THIRTY YEARS all attempts to bring about amalgamation failed.
BEFORE THAT TIME the mining law prevented amalgamation. These claims produced over
20 tons of gold within 400 feet of the surface.
IN THE EARLY ’SEVENTIES they were known as :
Capi
TALLENTYRIS and BEARD S
JEFFREEand DILLARD'S
ROSE OF ENGLAND
GUIDING STAR (Everett’s Lease)
RAPP’S
CARROLL and BEARD’S \
KROHMANN’S
BEYERS and HOLTERMANN’S
MONTE CHRISTO
RAWSTHORNE’S
BROWN’S
COCK, ATTWOODand DWYER’S
HICKSON, CREIGHTON and BEARD’S
GOLDEN VILLE
RAMPANT L10N...
PAXTON’S
STAR OF PEACE ..
FISHER and BEARD’S. .
MEYER’S
HERMAN’S
MAT I’HEWSON’S .
OXON and GONDOLPH’S
AND OTHERS.
‘ The area now submitted is 03 acres, all of
w amiVon^MLrn 01 *! 1^ public companies with large capitals.
•Hid tnrkwl hv ...Tl r 0 a, " ns 011 tke IKM, thern aud southern boundaries will probably be segregated
iw. °> 6 i J i companies. By this means additional working capital will be found for the
company ent ° f tUS ° od ° n alld tle by its shareholdings, will become-a parent
~ MANAGING DIRECTOR, .J. E. Scantlebury, went to Hill End at the request of Louis
gamation was iSng effected^' W d,ed P ro3 P octi,l S ™ Australia while this amal-
One^vaB*^ju reh as w/"r-ig h!tf<m*t—*thtj Star^oTPemje! ** BhaPeSl and iu othera for cash and
Tun™, win Se olSfmi mYIMs W! ,le J 8 £llOO , and 5000 shares ‘ In this case th ° Main
wniVtwc 8 vn mSurn ’! s m the purchase.
ORKING AND 01 HER options were obtained; a Gympie mi run manager was out in
charge, and men have been employed in cleaning out old levels, etc. Payable crushmo-s' have P been
ALREADY A “pSvft work all these « one mine. ‘ °
the ton. USHINGS i AKEN FEOM then left us unpayable have averaged over an ounce to
300 tunnel is nvnilnble.
put through 1 ft heavier and otherwise more economical stamp mill. 7 ° A tOU la P ‘° ht lf
dump, end 11 '“ l "« «- tom -lb*
*• „„, y guldSeld in An,
II I>S INTENDED to clean out other old levels, also the Star of Peace shaft helow the tunnel
evel, and to extend the Main i’uiinel to the east to intersect new reefs in virgin ground on a
parallel line with the old claims.
, 'VII HINA FEW FEEL’ of the tunnel face is the most easterly worked vein. Recently it was
underhand stoped helow the tunnel; three crushings averaged lOoz. a ton.
JjLGr DE YELOPMENId are expected further east and additional areas have been taken up to
secure deep levels.
(-1 ■ "T’f 80ft. tbe stope and undisturbed is the reef in which Beyers and Holtermann found
their s ab of gold quartz (value £12,000), and obtained from one crushing over 16,0000 z. From this
and other formations which extend over a great width payable crushings have lately been and are
being taken.
NOIJIING HAS DISTURBED the reefs. They are not cut out by any intrusive rock or
change of country. They were worked down into the comparatively poor zone, but are now good
enough to pay. They were enriched by “droppers”; the phenomenal gold was invariably in the
vicinity of these “ droppers.” Hence they should be enriched again, when intersected by other “ drop*
pers ’ known to exist further east, and making towards the reefs at a greater depth.
1 HE FIRST GOLD in Australia in quartz matrix was discovered at Hill End ; years later, on
the Hawkins Hill portion of the field, bonanzas were found. None were found on the surface.
THERE WERE issued at that time miners’ rights, which enabled one man to hold 30ft. on the
line of reef, two men 60ft. .with a maximum area of 120 ft., and so the field was pegged out. The first
claims taken up were not contiguous; hence, as seen by the plan, some of the intervening claims were
less than 30ft. For instance, Brown's western boundary was 30ft. long, but his eastern was Only
13ft. Out of this little claim came two tons of gold.
NEARLY ALL THE CLAIMS in the list were sold for cash to individual companies without
working capital, for such was considered unnecessary because of their richness.
THERE ARE NO OFFICIAL records of the total gold. Records were not obligatory, there-
fore few official returns wore furnished. But the public companies working the claims now embraced
in this amalgamation produced over £1,000,000 in gold.
MORE GOLD was got by claim holders before they sold. The total production from the claims
now for the first time amalgamated must have been between £2,000,000 and £3,000,000.
IT ISBELLEVED that rich gold deposits still remain in the old workings of such claims as
Krohmann’s, Beyers and Hoitermann’s, Paxton’s and others above the tunnel from which access is
available, and that some have been missed altogether.
OTHER BONANZAS discovered by the owners of one claim on the boundaries of another were
probably concealed until arrangements for their extraction could be made, which death and other un-
foreseen events prevented. >
ALREADY ONE PROPOSAL has been made to unearth one of these hidden treasures on tri-
bute, for which 50 per ceut. royalty is offered, and other proposals are likely to be made when it is
known that all the claims have passed into the possession of one company.
AN AGREEMENT has been entered into respecting a rich deposit of gold, alleged to have been
concealed nearly 40 years ago, in which the company will participate to the extent of 50 per cent, if
anything is revealed.
THE PRESENT BENDIGO gold-mining revival is entirely due to the finding of a rich forma-
tion in a shallow level of the Central Red, White and Blue, and as a result the shares jumped from
ss. to £5;
HAD THE SAME conditions existed in Victoria and Queensland in respect to the size of the
original quartz claims as at Hill End up to 1873, Bendigo, Ballarat, Charters Towers and Gympie to-
day would be in the same derelict condition. These fields were started with larger areas; they were
continued and saved from collapse by amalgamation and other operations in unison, and while they pros-
pered under rig ,t conditions, Hill End, in the absence of them, remained derelict and unworked,
though experienced mining men who examined Hill End came away convinced that more gold could
be got below the 405 ft. level than was ever obtained above it.
THERE IS NOT a goldfield in Australia worthy of the name that has not encountered a com-
paratively poor or barren zone. Hill End is the only goldfield in Australia that has stopped at 400 feet,
yet it got more gold above that depth than any other Australian goldfield, and unquestionably should
be worked down to 4000 feet.
FOR SOME YEARS the New South Wales Mines Department, with the object of re-opening
the Hill End field, offered a subsidy of £30,000. Then amalgamation was again attempted and
again failed, and without consolidation the subsidy was useless.
FOR SEVERAL YEARS all abandoned ground was reserved from mining lease; but, the
principal claims were always manned and therefore held.
ASSURANCE IS GIVEN that the subsidy will again be made available as soon as warranted
by consolidation, such as now achieved, and by mining development, such as this Company is about
to undertake.
AT ONE TIME the Star of Peace was worked by an English company, who carried the shaft
on the underlay on the Star of Peace reef to a depth of 800 ft. Subsequently the shaft was condemned
and abandoned.
ONE BY ONE thirty to forty shafts in this area caved. They were simply timber boxes, the
ground being worked around them, and up to the time the workings were drained by the Consolidated
tunnel little could be seen.
FROM TIME TO TIME mining men went to Hill End to see if anything could be done, but
came away disgusted with the prohibitive demands made by way of cash.
TO-DAY, WITH THE tunnel driven through the reefs, with old levels cleaned out, with large
faces of payable stone exposed, with many thous ands of tons of mullock waiting for the mill, with
every prospect of history repeating itself in the virgin ground to the east and again in the well-
known reefs at a greater depth, the Amalgamated Hill End, as shown on the accompanying plan, is
presented to the public on the terms herein set forth.
LETTER TO INVESTORS
Dkar Sib or Madam,—
„ * W ? uld like y°" to invesfc in Amalgamated Hill End Shares. It is the best gold-mining orondsi'
tion I have dropped across as a miner and minimr T 1 goiu-mining proposi-
different parts of Australia. g CntlC ’ and 1 have examined a great many in
Hitt 'SS “coSlid," k s ™e Kd “" d „2 her r? in E ” d , l-k often invited ,o
Hawkins Hill little cl: UmsTrsfimprSdme 16 ** 2 ° yearS si nce‘the consolidation of the dd
lor years I advocated amalgamation in The Bulletin.
work at the first opportunityran r dthe e diance e camehist h year. qUeBfc,and * promiSed to undel 'take the
a tonnage. The bulk came fromEJOOft? of ground Within
in the area near the surface. the sui face, and not much was got
436 HZEh&f" OUi “ in Australi * thal » ton of gold from one cruel, i„g(Krol,mnnn’ s 1872,
if noet AnSinn^eco”!" 18 P “‘°"' S ’ 2 ‘°“ 4mm. That i, a New South Wales,
of gi'oun^' B^\notiitn^\.ul strftlian S |-ecord n ' 9 ' Prod “ cin * 2 ‘° nS “ f "*■ » <*”• ftomdess than 30 feet
Holtormamhs. T“' *“ ‘"I “ *>”*
ing, which yielded over 16,0000 z. n 16 " as broken tip and thrown into crush-
left above°fche°t unneh 18 mUoh rU ° re g ° ld in the dee P er ground, and a good deal has been
The Companies working 20ft. to 120 ft. claims in 1872-3 collapsed because they could not carry
the burden of £60,000 to £160,000 capitalisation, in the aggregate nearly £2,000,000, and work stone
worth an ounce to the ton, and they could not prospept for another rich zone without working capital.
The miniature areas caused the shallow gold treasures of Hawkins Hill to be well 'divided
amongst men and companies, and reserved that remaining below 400 ft. for a future generation.
Amalgamation was impossible, because adjoining claims were never rich at the same time, though
they were all rich at some time or other. Moreover, the mining law in the surrendering of claims
gave no preference to the owners in re-pegging, and it was not until the ’SO’s that the defect was
remedied.
Apparently in the ’7o’s each little mine waited for the next to go down, with the result that all
stopped in the poorer zone. Whatever the cause, the richest gold claims found in Australia have
been practically shut down for over 30 years.
The Hawkins Hill rich gold was not confined to two or three claims nor to a small area. It was a
run of gold extending almost without interruption over a distance of nearly 3000 ft., nor was it con-
fined to one reef or formation, but nearly every reef and formation in the auriferous belt was at one
time or another wonderfully rich. Another remarkable fact, the known reefs on the crown of the
hill, which were outside the e&stern boundaries of the old rich claims, and yet too far away to be
reached by any of the western tunnels, have remained in their virgin state, and the Hawkins Hill
worked reefs were equally poor in their surface outcroppings.
In the early ’7o’s, all over the gold-mining world an ounce to the ton was payable, but low-grade ;
to-day, in all the big goldfields of the Commonwealth, half an ounce to the ton is high grade*; while
in America sdwt. is high grhde and one dollar low grade rock. Hence Hawkins Hill, which shut
down in the early ’7o's because it was too low grade to pay, will now re-open as a high-grade
proposition.
Amalgamated Hill End, Ltd., deserves to have your name on its list of shareholders.
Yours, J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Secretary, Amalgamated Hill End, Limited, Equitable Building, Sydney.
..... I J ureb y a PP‘y /<"•••' ’hares in the *«.»„,«( Coin pan, on the term, of the Company', Prospectus,
2, ted to Zt V f , ! 7’, T 1 h T by as "‘ ac “P‘ a ‘ (" any jailer »2ier that Ly ie
f‘l[ lr > ’y n f pay r , T‘ 0f tW ° shi,li '>s* y >&n * allotment, and l authorise yen to register me as the
applied for ’by me enc °f £ being the application money of two shillings per share for the shares
last. The above represents only one-third of the
The base line was about 899 ft., so that the market value was over £1299 a
amalgamated claims, and less than one-tenth of the total area.
AND 4000 SeveraMCal stop? 7 l at * l whils th ,s; of Gympie, Charters Towers and Bendigo have gone down to
4000 ft. Several Kalgoorhe m.nes, opened within the last (4 years, are already down over 2000 ft.
Name (in full)
Address (in full) .....
Profession dr Business
Signature
Date
Use this form, or write, or wire for Fall Prospectus and Plan to The
Secretary Amalgamated Hill End, Ltd., Equitable Building, Sydney.


At THE TARRANT,
MELBOURNE.
WE WANT MORE ROOM-MORE FLOOR
SPACE.
PRESENT CARS MUST GO TO MAKE
WAY FOR NEW SHIPMENTS.
Late Models
at LOW
PRICES—
28/35 Fiat
20-h.p. Rover
Our Slightly Used
Car Department.
10/12-h.p. Aster, single seater - £lO5
6-h.p.DeDions, single seaters,£loo to £llO
12/14-h.p. Argyll, five seater - £lB5
70-h.p. Mercedes, five seater - £450
15-h.p. Ford, single seater- - £ll5
10/12-h.p. F.N., single seater - £295
20-h.p. Ford, five seater - - £220
Write To-day for full particulars.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.,
108 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Dainty Footwear
for Ladies.
Prite l6/6
The superior excellence
of the Shoe illustrated has
been and is being proved time
and time again. It justifies the
highest praise we can give it. It fits
perfectly, is comfortable, looks well, wears
well, and gives to every woman who wears
it that satisfaction which accompanies
money well spent.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
LEEMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1»3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
Cazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Tan,
large tin, 6d.
Write for our Booklet, “Shoelight.”
[1
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
m
iw
I^ORRIoS
reeWtches
CIOARETHB
'
10
for
Made
tondfsn
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ba per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, syoney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
m
i
OF
y
Mr
D
F «f
The
J One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11:
Blood Burnt by Tobacco
Teeth, Eyes, Nerves and Brain
Destroyed by Smoking!
German physicians declare in that deaths
amongst Germans between eighteen and
thirty-five years of age, one half die from
nicotine or tobacco poison. They unani-
mously declare that “ Tobacco burnt out
the blood, teeth, ej/es and brain."
Other great doctors declare nicotine to
be the poison of both heart and brain,
producing paralysis, apoplexy and
heart disease. Dr. Drysdale says
“Nicotine enters the body by the lungs,
ruin of the nerves is complete.”
Men and youths who are slaves to
tobacco, wrecked in nerves and health
through continuous smoking, should take
“ Smokueb ” Tablets. They contain the
vital antidote for the poison, creating
nerve power, heart and brain strength.
For free particulars send stamps to
THE NICOTO-MANIA TABLET CO.,
75 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth St., Sydney
Seasonable
Suitings.
WE nave made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
!hM
This Watch, worth 10/6, for 3/11.
Tobacco —its price is Half-a-Guinea in the regular way and costs you that if bought alone~
It is guaranteed for five years, and has a fine clear Railway dial. You get the watch at
this concession price only if bought at the same time as any of these purchases
CIGARS : Four for 1/- ; Sample Box of 10, 2/6 ; 50 for 9/6 ; Box of 100, 18/6. All Post Free.
TOBACCO: 2oz. “Corn Cob,” packet, cut light or dark, lOd. ; Watch, 3/11 ; postage 6d.
Total, 5/3. Inter-State, 2d. extra. 4oz. “ Corn Cob,” plug, light or dark, 1/4 ; the
“Corn Cob ” Watch, 3/ll ; postage 6d. ; total 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lib.
boxes, 6/-.; 2oz. packets, 6/6.. Inter-State, 3d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney. Established 30 years.
THE CIGARETTES WITH THE AROMATIC FLAVOR!
KISMET CIGARETTES
They’re so dainty in appearance —so delightfully fragrant to
the taste —»o cooling to the palate that even the man who
abhors cigarettes will find pleasure in smoking them.
VIRGINIAN.
10 in a box, 9d.; posted, 10d.
25 in a box, 1/9; posted, 1/11
50 in a box, 3/6; posted, 3/10
100 in a box, 6/6; posted, 7/-
TURKISH.
10 in a box, 1/-; posted, 1/1
25 in a box, 2/- ; posted,- 2/2
50 in a box, 5/-; posted, 5/4
100 in a box, 9/- ; posted, 9/6
NIMROD TOBACCO.
FINE (WAFER) CUT, and
MEDIUM CUT.
The finest Tobacco you can smoke. It is the outcome of years of experience in the Tobacco Trade.
Jib., 2/-; posted, 2/3
11b., 7/6; posted, 8/3
Jib., 3/9; posted, 4/3
31b., 21/-; posted, 22/3
ANDREW McGEE
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
EDWARD FAY,
THe Big
Boot Block
We carry one of the Largest Stocks in N.S.W. of English Boots, and guarantee them
to be the latest Styles from Leading Makers.
ASK our Salesman all about our
S' “ Dreadnought” Soles. They
will outlast three ordinary soles.
Cent.’s, 1/9 ; Ladies’, 1/6 Pair.
(B. 132)
The Bostock
Boot, jL 1
Ladies should see our American
Shoes. They are the daintiest wear
in Sydney.
"THE BOSTOOK make is known all
* over the world, and needs little
describing. It is a Boot made to
wear, and built from the finest
materials. We can recommend it.
Sold by some stores at 25/-
Country Orders will
receive prompt atten-
tion. Just state the
size required and
shape. You can
rely upon our
selection.
Corner PITT 8 LIVERPOOL STREETS, 8 at 716 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
I Nonotice (exceotof a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on ,\[SS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (o f any State) accompany.
K.C.: Yours is a familiar yet quaint style, and
beautifully irrelevant. If you were writing' a personal
item about a new potentate you would probably go on
like this: “ Born in 1847, the new Governor, though he
has a wooden leg, devoted much time to the study of
the Greek language.” It was a brother of yours who
discoursed hurriedly about the man who was run over by
the cab: “ llis name is Smith, but it is thought he may re-
cover.” H.E. W. : No, unfortunately, you can’t claim
against the paper which reprinted the paragraph....
Longfellow: “ Re the above advt.,” you say—and then
don’t enclose the advt. Inclined to think that that is the
break you mention... .Skeeter (and others): No further
demand for bug literature Bellerive: It is a nice com-
pact tragedy :
THE FATAL NUGGET.
’Twas a tranquil night, the moon shone bright
When a miner, bent and old.
Bound for his camp did plod along.
Laden with a nugget of gold ;
Two desperadoes of the road
Did shadow the lonely man ;
To slay and rob him of his gold
Was their cruel and merciless plan ; '
They watched him emerge into his tent
’Neath the glare of the pale moonlight,
While wafted out the doleful call
Of the distant mopoke of the night.
Snake-like upon their hands and knees
Into the tent they did softly creep ;
Alas, the nugget sealed the miner’s doom—
He was strangled in his sleep.
.... W.G.McD. : Patriotic poem hasn’t sufficient chest
measurement ...A.H. (V.): To tell you the truth, we
found the printed circular on the other side more inter-
esting than your bitter remarks in bad verse. The pro-
vincial commander’s appeal to the candidate not to allow
the Devil to harass him is tiie brightest part of the
religious business letter.. ..Garry : Graceful trifle ; needs
more polishing S.P.B. > Very mild horse humor
P.M. (M.L.): Sorry A. Sep.: The vague gloomy poem
wherein (1) the mopoke hoots, (2) the curlew wails, and
(3) the dingo howls, is merely an indication that yet
another person has discotvered the ancient formula for
product.g sombre Australian verse. The addition of
moaning swamp-oaks hardly improves it at ai1....
E. M. R-B. : Feeble... .G. W.J. : Guess not... .L.E.M. :
Snail-love verse is something of a novelty ; but, in spite
of that, the poem was last seen crawling: towards the
basket, and no one was in pursuit of it.... J.F.H. :
Sorry no value.. ..D.L.H. : O’Malley poem du11....
Learner: Sorry all unsuitable Kaka : Some humor,
but not enough... .ltoid L. : Sincere verse with some
graceful touches, but it slides down to the commonplace
level too often. Try again .. D.H.R.: Counted out with
some reluctance....F.E.: Surf poem last seen signalling
for the lifeline. Afraid it’s another tragedy K.W.T.:
It needs one or two small patches. The verse-carpenter
now has the job in hand D.L.11.: Reserved “ Axiom ”
for second reading. Others below print....8.K.8.; Very
faint jingle on a very small topic... .E.1.L.: Story under-
done...T. Hardy (Q.): Sorry unable to comply. Re-
turning MS.. . .H. 8.8. : We couldn’t see our way to pub-
lish it even with the aid of a searchlight....E.F.L.: Last
section of “ The Chalice," consisting of 30 verses, re-
ceived and destroyed in accordance with your note on
last leaf. It was a very sensible note... .H.G.S. : Ghosts
are only allowable when they are entertaining... .I\ W.M.:
Limpid, monotonous rhyme. The “voracious, wicked
shark” swallowed it impassively...F.S.J.: Keep on apolo-
gising' to Omar !... .Nitro : Confused topical poem....
8.K.(N.5.W.): Nptsufficient skill ;it faintly mirrorsa lot
of good things of the same species... .8.J.C.: Inferior
German-sausage humor Fred B. (Darlinghurst): You
are not old enough to try your luck for the Inky
Way R.0.N.K.: Unsuitable M.R.D.K.: No
J.M.B. : Alas! we have no use for it....L.J.: It is a
graceful, fervid fragment, but it doesn’t gel us. With a nice
little accompaniment it would make a good drawing-room
song Clancy: Promising merely W.L. : Thanks,
but no space for reprint verse C.B.P. : Thanks, but
it’s an old friend.. . .C.A.B. : No demand whatsoever for
tales about the bedstead variety of insect.. ..Abracada-
bra : See an article in B. 9/2/’11... .J.J.P. : Well, s-ndin
a claim, and see how you get on J.W.O. : There is no
distinct party. But every party is being.inoculated....
A.B;C.: Boil, boil, boil. We don’t want the carcase.
give us the gravy Voyager: White Star.... E.T.:
Sorry Can’t oblige.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.J.D. : Drawing too laborious ; and the gag isn’t
original 5.8.: The most hoary lot of chestnuts this
month. .
The Gossip of “ 10-2-4 ” :—-
The British papers’ belated protest against the futili"
ties of Justice Grantham reminds one that England’s
freak law-dispensers are by no means confined to the
King’s Bench Division. The holder of, the English (and,
doubtless, the world’s) championship for wholly pur-
poseless utterances from the Bench, is Bacon, of the
Whitechapel County Court. He has Grantham himself
“ licked to a frazzle,” as they have it in the U.S. Bacon’s
Court, like all the others of its class, barring the West-
minster Court, is a grimy, ill-ventilated little apartment
up a back alley. It deals with cases in contract up to
£lOO, and in Tort up to £5O. The day’s proceedings
open with a vast string of judgment summonses, and a
herd of insanitary debtors and creditors. Solicitor and
counsel frequently faint when the judgment summons
business has been exceptionally brisk. But it never
worries Bacon or diminishes his exuberance. Some
other points about him are that he is worth £lOO,OOO
(left him by his father, Vice-Chancellor Bacon), and
so has never needed the £l5OO a year which his
job brings in ; that he is over 80; that he fre-
quently sits till 10 p.m. ; and that, for all his puerile
babblings, he is a fine lawyer. A close second to Bacon
in the matter of irrelevant chat is Judge Willis, K.C., of
Southwark. A militant Methody, he has variously in-
formed his Court that he has never been in a place of
amusement, played cards, kissed a female (other than his
Wife and the house cat), touched alcohol, used a tele-
phone or taxi, smoked, danced, indulged in Continental
bathing, watched a horse-race, or engaged in a street
fight. He is one of the few who still cling to the judicial-
innocence business. In the midst of the Crippen case he
cried helplessly, “ Who is Crippen ?”
The ancient title of Surveyor-General has
been revived in N. S. Wales. The first Surveyor-
General was Augustus Theodore Henry Alt, a
Baron of Hesse Cassel, who came out in the first
fleet with Governor Phillip and died at Ashfield,
where he had a grant, and where there is still an
Alt-street. His assistant and successor was
Charles Grimes, who did some survey work in
early Port Phillip. At the beginning of last cen-
tury there was also James Meehan, who surveyed
Sydney for Governor Bligh ; and a very interest-
ing map there still is of the same survey. John
Oxley became Surveyor-General in 1812, and died
in 1828. He was something of an explorer.
Thomas Livingstone Mitchell, another explorer,
succeeded Oxley. He came out originally “to
survey Eastern Australia.” Mitchell built Car-
thona at Darling Point, and died there. S. A.
Perry was in office for a while, and then Colonel
George Barney, of the Royal Engineers, suc-
ceeded, having as his deputy John Thompson,
father of the late John Malbon Thompson, a
Minister in Queensland. The chief clerk, secre-
tary and cashier at that time was Henry Hal-
loran, the poet. Colonel Barney was succeeded
by W. R! Davidson, whose deputy was P. F.
Adams. The latter succeeded to the office, and
was the last of the old tiurveyors-General.


On March lO we will remove our Brisbane Showrooms to 90 Queen St., Opposite PiKe Bros.
igh
Grade
i
ONCE=A=WEEK PIANO TALKS
IQ we will remove our Brisbane Showrooms to 90 Queen St.,
opposite PiKe Bros.
Make it a point
to come and
inspect our
New Models.
They are
magnificent
musical
instruments.
The Casework
is not
ornamented
in any way
except for the
beautiful “ figure ”
of the timber.
We claim that
these pianos
are not equalled
in any part
of the world.
You will say
that you have
never heard
such a beautiful,
resonant tone.
It cannot too often be said that we do not make cheap, low-
grade Pianos. Our only desire is to produce Pianos of high quality,
and to this end we make every detail without sparing trouble and
expense, so long as we get the quality.
■ ■ '■ l ■■■ ■ ■ ' ; ; v \ ■ > \ •.} Jr.
Our CABINETWORK, for instance, is made on a new
system, quite unlike that of other Pianos. We build up the Case-
work in many plies of timber, with the grain running in alternate
directions. Of course, 5 it would be much easier and cheaper to follow
the system of foreign makers, and build in the solid, but that is not
nearly so dependable , so durable , as our construction. It takes much
longer to build a piano by our method, but then you can take the
instrument to any climate in the world and no crack , no warp, will
ever develop in the cabinetwork.
• • ' - . . ; 1 ' '■; ■ • ' , . .
Don’t buy a piano on a hasty decision. Remember that it
should not be necessary for you to purchase a piano more than once
in a life-time , and, therefore, it is-worth while making a special effort
to obtain the best at the beginning , and have greater satisfaction for
many years.
We shall be glad to see you at our Showrooms, or to send you
bur catalogue with full particulars of BEALE High-Grade
PIANOS.
On March lO we will remove our Brisbane Showrooms to 90 Queen St-, opposite PiKe Bros.
BEALE <a CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS-
-378 George St, Sydney 8 D ££«£ om 107 Swanston St., Melbourne
291 Queen St., Brisbane (next G.P.O . —our . Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle St., Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay St, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Travellers Everywhere. Write for Catalogue. 2 5 Years* Guarantee.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Cash or Easy Terms. Repairs and Tuning.
Save Importers* Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.
We stocK all Kinds of Music and Musical Instruments at 28 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
On March lO we will remove our Brisbane Slhowrooms to 90 Queen St., opposite PiKe Bros.


£
<£>
Cj
CD
fOK mid
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London. 27,
Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 10, Rue de la Chaussee
d' Antin ; Australia, It. Towns & Co., Sydney:
India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta: China, Hong Kong
Drug Co.; Japan. Maruya, Ltd., Toklo; So. Africa,
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.: Russia, Ferreln
(Apteka), Moscow; U. S. A., Potter Drug A Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., 133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
ogrPost-free, 32-page Cutlcura Book, an Author*
Ity on the Care and Treatment of Skin and Hair.
Dr. Hartmann’s
ANTINEURASTHIN
and Nervous Breakdown.
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells must be
FED, and not stimulated by medicines in the form of
tonics or sedatives, which give temporary relief, but can-
not effect permanent improvement.
Lecithin is the ONLY substance by which the brain
and nerves can be nourished ; and it is Lecithin which
the system requires in all cases of neurasthenic condi-
tions. (Nervous Disorders, Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Brain
Fag, Insomnia, Depression, Insanity, etc.) If the brain
and nerves can be supplied sufficiently with Lecithin the
cure is certain ; Antineurasthin supplies that substance
and effects the cure.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the ONLY known preparation
containing an effective percentage of Lecithin in an
active organic state, completely-assimilable, and with its
valuable principles undiminished in any way.
,A sample of Antineurasthin, together with a valuable
treatise on Nervous Disorders, will be despatched by
return of mail by the Wholesale Distributor for Australia
-and New Zealand —H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street*
Brisbane ; and H. A. GODDARD, 194 Vickery’s Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, on receipt of ninepencein stamps. [2
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily, and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to tempt death by Heart Disease,
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp and we will post von a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET— “The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. O,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney. [i
OH ! Only a Cold !
But, why. have it when you can throw it off so
easilv ? Don’t waste time with various nos-
trums. Help Nature to expel the poison from
your system by a trial of the ideal aperient,
LAXATINE,
the Lozenge Laxative.
' .Pleasantly flavored. Perfect in action. You’ll
feel- the benefit immediately. No griping'
effect. Creates new life.
1/-- p«r box.—All Chemists. 12
&
>
m
!!*«!!
|Tg*H
il
YOU WILL RELISH FOOD
AND HAVE NO MORE PAINS
AFTER EATING
“It is a far, far better thing” than mo; t people
irriagine to be able to relish food and have no pains,
no’headaches, no biliousness, no constipation to follow.
It means that your digestion is sound and that your
stomach, liver and bowels are in working order. It
means that you are fit and well—fit for your daily
f work —fit for the battle of life—fit to fight disease if
ever it should come near you.
■On the other hand, if you have lost your appetite,
if you don’t relish food, if you have headaches, biliousness,
constipation, sleeplessness and a “ run down,” “ fagged ”
IF YOU TAKE THE DIGESTIVE TONIC
feeling, your stomach and liver are out ol order. You
need the gentle aid of the herbal tonic, Mother Seigel's
Syrup —the greatest stomach and liver tonic in the world.
The Syrup will restore your digestive organs to
working order, give you appetite and relish for fcod,
and prevent any digestive troubles. In short, it will
give you health, strength, and “ fitness.” Try it to-day !
Mr. R. Jones, 222, Roma Street, Brisbane, Queensland, writes:
“ I was in misei'y with indigestion for eighteen solid months. I
endured a great deal of pain and discomfort in my stomach after
evei'y meal. Also I had a feeling, beneath the breast-bone, as if
there were a heavy stone lying there, and I felt heavy, sluggish and
uncomfoi'table. I often went without food, when I was l-eally
hungi'y, to save myself from the pains it produced. At last I was
recommended to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and by the time I
had finished the second bottle, I was cured for good.” —9/4/1910.
MOTHER
SEIGELS SYRUP
MADE OF ROOTS, BARKS AND LEAVES.
f ” . >
Take a dose of the Syrup immediately after your next meal.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily. Motor trips are made from the Hotel-to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
THE TRIALS OF TRAVEL. |
Do not add to the trials of travel and of .everyday life by carrying
a fountain pen that leaks—that cannot be refilled without a bulb
filler. Th ere is a safer, better way—to canyon Onoto. j
The Onoto is the British made fountain pen that
—Fills itself in a flash from any ink supply.
—That never leaks and spoils clothes and cat pets.
—That gives writing satisfaction, gliding smoothly and
speedily over the paper.
It is sold by all stationers, jewellers, stores, etc. And it is worth many
times the price asked— l2/—.
It is only common sense to discatd obsolete pens and ways of writing—
to go to day to the nearest stationer’s and say—“ An Onoto Pen, please."
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos. De La Rue
& Co , Ltd., 164 Bunhill Row, London. E.C., or the Australasian Reore-
sentatire, Norman Baker, SO York Street, Sydney.
and Upwards
U3J
OJOUQ
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
IMPORTANT . —For those who require a larger pen with
a very flexible nib, a special model —the new G —has been
put on the market. It is exceptional value for the money.
Try this new G at your stationer’s.
Business, Robbery, etc.
After-Christmas confession, pasted on a N.S. W.
country butcher’s shop-window :
Notice.
Owing' to abdominal indisposition and nauseating- anac-
tharsis, I have been incapacitated from attending to my
multifarious occupations, and my environments, together
with the idiosyncrasies of some folk, have rendered me,
for the past few days, unfit for duty' ; but thanks to good
advice, and a plentiful supply of Carlsbad salts, and strict
attention to dietary regulations, I am now convalescent,
and feel thoroughly rejuvenated and in exuberant spirits ;
and I trust by the absence of alcoholic intoxicants to be
able to resume my duty with my usual dexterity and
acumen, and to have a continuation of your valued sup-
port.
* * • •
“ 0.K.” : The brewers of Britain may presently
be driven to start tea-shops of their own in self-defence.
A cup of tea arfd a bloomin’, bun, plus the propinquity of
bloomin’ girls, has become a habit with any number of
young men whose progenitors took a glass of beer and a
sandwich for lunch. In every large town in Britain there
are now 10 tea-drinking shops where one used to .suffice ;
and Australia can say the same of itself. Quite uncoil-
Sciously, the women have affected the beer trade by in-
ducing their Adolphuses to take them to afternoon tea.
Presently either the brewers will have to persuade the
medical profession to, denounce the accursed tannin
trade or Beer will have to take to Tannin as a side-line,
just as in many places it has taken to ginger-pop and
other “ soft ” malefactions.
# * * •
“Silas Snell”: I was Christmassing in Cres-
wick (Vic.). Reposing under a greengage tree, with “a
Cup of Milk, a Bag of Buns, and Thou,” I had my atten
tion drawn to the curious conduct of Tim Kee, unclassi-
fied Chinese, who was sauntering up and down at the
back of the premises of Mrs. Tanner. Tim Kee trailed a
string behind him, and sauntered through Mrs. Tanner’s
prime geese, with the air of a man profoundly cogitating
the mysteries of creation. Suddenly a fat gander made a
dash at Tim Kee. Tim Kee fled. The gander pursued
him, with outstretched neck and flapping wings. Mrs.
Tanner looked over the fence, and cried: “Don’t run,
John ; he won’t hurt you ! ” But Tim Kee continued
running, hard pressed by the gander—fled over the creek
bank and into the scrub. And the villain still pursued
him ! Mrs. Tanner squealed again as the heathen disap-
peared : “ John, John, he won’t hurt you 1 ” I smiled a
great deal. There was a baited fish-hook on the end of
the string trailed by Tim Kee, and the pagan had hooked
a ten-pounder.
*** . *
“San Remo”: Observing that the Newcastle
shopkeepers, after a brief experience of the Saturday
half-holiday, are clamoring to the N.S.VV. Government to
repeal the Act, I hasten to urge Premier McGowen to sit
tight and reap the ultimate blessing of all parties. In
Brisbane, where the Saturday half-holiday has been going
strong for the past 10 years, Rags and Fluff howled in the
beginning just as they are now howling in Coalopolis.
The atmosphere was torn into shreds with the sharp
end of the howl, and Capital packed up hurriedly
preparatory to a long farewell. But the Govern-
ment had heard Capital’s bluff before, and refused
to be influenced by it; and at last the cries
ceased and Capital unpacked itself once more. And to
show how badly it was ruined, it started to build bigger
shops all.over the city. I was speaking to the boss of a
firm of shopfitters the other day, and he remarked that
during the last five or six years all records had been
beaten in the matter of shop improvements. To-day I’ll
undertake to say you couldn’t induce the average shop-
keeper to go back to the Wednesday closing with any-
thing less drastic than a team of bullocks.
• * * #
It seems that, however vigorous a doer he may
be while he is alive, the pig is a waster when he is dead.
Under the Pure Foods Act hams have to be stamped
with' their weight; but, having an eye to the wasting,
the packers add to the stamp the w'ords, “ when packed.”
A man who. found a ham branded 14jlb. also found that
he had bought only I2lb. of ' pig, the balance having
“wasted”;in the store. This led to inquiries and the
discovery that in hot weather the hind leg of the pig may
vanish at the rate of lib. per month ; and as in Sydney
alone it is estimated that 50,000 hams were sold for the
Christmas trade, at something over Is. per lb., it looks
as though the public has lately paid a thousand or two
for pig that it never had a chance to put on its plate.
The moral of which seems to be that it isn’t safe to judge
the weight of a hogsleg by the brand on its overcoat.
* # * *
“ Wongii”: The Cold Water crowd is building
up a bloated monopoly in the pub line. Especially is this
the case in the towns where the sun is hot and the thirst
everlasting. In a one-horse township I passed through
recently, a hotelkeeper had been offered £5OO on his bar-
gain, after being in six months; another, in another
township,* bought five months ago for £l2OO and has now
refused £2500. The best gold mine is the.country pub
where there is no opposition beer-pump and a growing
population. The Licensing Bench won’t give another
license ; so the pub serves the blokes that happen along
as badly as it likes, which is blooming bad generally.
The landlord generally steps in and rakes a hundred or
two every time there is a transfer, otherwise he won’t
agree to it. If the Labor party is out for biffing monopo-
lies, it has a good chance in the liquor field. I don’t
know how it is going to do the job exactly. But it seems
dead-certain that, when a Bench refuses an opposition
license, it adds to the value of the old monopoly ; and
the old monopoly thus gets unearned increment which
the State should pocket in the shape of a stiffer license
fee.
* * * *
“Boswell”: “Stan” (B. 29/12/’10) thinks the
C.S.R. Co. would promptly sack any employee charged
with unionism. I dunno. The bloated co. has been in
such sore straits for men during the current season chat
it has frequently invoked the aid of the Courts to per-
suade employees to stay on the premises. Wages are
good all over federated Australia, and the 3s. 4d. per
12-hour shift, with all stoppages thrown out, for which
the average N.S.W. sugarite signs on, is daily becoming
less alluring. I don’t think a charge of being an anarchist
or black-hander would secure relief from the roar of one
of-the mills at present. I know one case this season —at
Oondong mill, on the Tweed (N.S.W.)—where the co.
summoned a deserter, and although two of his mates
went to court and barracked for him, in addition to fee-
ing his lawyer, they weren’t sacked. In all cases tried
the men have been heavily fined, the beak remarking that
thev were striking a blow at a great industry.
BAGPIPES AND OYSTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Joseph Ward, in returning thanks, remarked that, after
the important session just passed through, he was glad tp
be welcomed by the familiar sound of the bagpipes, which
made him and his wife feel at home in Southland once
more. (Cheers.)
The Prime Minister will attend the Caledonian games
and the Bluff regatta, and hopes, after that f to rest for a
while at Stewart Island.—News Item.
The giggling squeals of the bursting pipes
May comfort the soul of Joe ;
He may love the things whose music gripes,
But why does he want to go,
When the final shriek has died away
And the last sour reel is laid,
Where the silent oyster grows all day
For the Dago fish-shop trade ?
The bland Prime Borrower bows and wilts ;
Of his greatness he repents
When he sees the station packed with kilts
And bursting constituents.
The red, raw sounds from the bags of screams ’ ~
Play up with his well-chewed ear ;
But as he purrs he has blissful dreams
Of oysters, silent and dear.
The reticent oyster sits and grows
By the damp and soothing sea ;
It never begs and it never owes,
So it is good companie.
But, better than all, it plays no tunes
On bags in ribbons arrayed—
It just grows fat to the ocean’s runes
For the Dago fish-shop trade.
N.S. W.
DONALD McHAGGIS.


Arnott’s Milk. Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD."
THE
IpNC, fjAND
MARCH 1, 1911.
The Hidden Shame
AN EXPOSURE OF THE
SWEATERS OF SYDNEY.
By J. BARR and C. A. JEFFRIES.
THE .first of a series of investigations into the shocking
conditions under which women “Home Workers” work
inconceivable hours and are paid at starvation rates by the
Chinese, Syrian and “White” Australian owners of garment fac-
tories. An indictment of the industrial conditions of a presumably
civilised and human State. An explanation why women of the
middle classes are able to get “bargains” in dainty underwear —
bargains paid for in human flesh and blood.
Besiaes this great feature, consider a few of the other items
that make up the best issue of THE LONE HAND to date:—
Through the Unknown Territory. —Unique photographs of
unknown Australia by Francis Birtles, the overland cyclist.
The Making of an Inland Sea.— J. H. M. Abbott!s fine
account of the building of the great dam at Burrinj.uck—a
solid mass of concrete as high as the top of the Sydney Post
Office tower. (Illustrated with remarkable photographs.)' '
The Great Lock-Out. —A weird story by C. J. Dennis, telling
what happened when the spooks took charge of the printing
trade.
The Hates of Torres. —Randolph Bedford’s adventure serial.
Aerial Defence.— The third of Lieut. G. A. Taylor’s articles.
The Command of the Air. —A stirring story by Lawrence
Zeal, showing how an Australian aeroplane met the Japanese
in the new warfare.
An Insect Husical Box.— The remarkable life-story of the
Australian cicada.
The Kauri Kings. —The Maoriland kauri industry.
The Cathedrals of Australia.— The stories of the building
of the Cathedrals of Sydney, Hobart and Brisbane.
On sale Everywhere.
Price—the price of The Bulletin.
THE Australian thinks in Continents, because
he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that eaters for a Continent.
Missing: Friends.
Bennett, Robert ernest,
native of Maryborough, Queensland. Tall
and muscular ; last heard of at Mount Chalmers
Copper Mine, near Rockhampton, Queensland,
about July, 1907.
Wanted by his brother WILLIE,
Railway Department,
Gym pie, Queensland.
SELLWOOD (John Ernest), born 27th April,
1869, left England for Tasmania 1889.
Worked for Condon (Storekeeper), Ringarooma ;
later for Pinner (Farmer), Jetsonville. Went
Melbourne, Australia, about 1890. Entitled
legacy.
Inquire A. NEWTON MILLER.
Solicitor,
Cullompton, Devon, England.
RICHARD WILLIAMS.
RICHARD WILLIAMS, son of
William Williams, .of Llanelly, Wales,
who came to Queensland about the year 1868,
and resided for some time in Cooktown, or any-
one knowing liis whereabouts, please communicate
with Messrs. Thynnk & Macartney, Solicitors,
Brisbane, at the earliest.
Public Notice.
THE Patentee of AUSTRALIAN PATENTS
No. 2856 of 29th March 1905 (Merrill) and
No. 4072 of 6th September 1905 (Merrill) for
a “ PRESSURE FILTER and process for re-
moving solid, semi-solid or unalterable material
from thecontainers thereof,’’and for “Animproved
process for TREATING ores, tiiilings or other
materials containing precious metal,” is prepared
to enter into negotiation for and to complete
arrangements by way of license or otherwise on
reasonable terms with any persons desiring to
manufacture such FILTER or to adopt and carry
on either of such PROCESSES in Australia.
Enquiries to be addressed to W. ,T. SPRUSON,
Patent Attorney, 91 Elizabeth St., Sydney, N.s.W,
AGENTS WANTED.
LIVE Representatives to control exclusive
territory for manufacturer's line of Hiyli-
grade Soaps and Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices.
100 per cent, to 200 per cent, profit. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U.S.A.
Established IS Years.
Amusements.
U ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) LAST NIGHT of THE WHIP.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 4,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
VIA WIRELESS.
A Drama in Four Acts, by Paul Armstrong and
Winchel Smith.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
: OUR MISS GIBBS.
resplendent revelry, sensational gown-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY)
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.,
UNTIL FRIDAY, MARCH 10,
CHOICE GEMS AND RAPID CHANGES.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Palings.
RE-OPENING LYCEUM MATINEE, SAT., MARCH 11.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY., LTD., SEASON.
A BRILLIANT SUCCESS,
THE CLARKE & MEYNELL COMIC OPERA CO.
THE BELLE OE BRLTTANY
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.
Box Plan at, ELVY’S.
M AX MAXWELLS DRAMATIC CO.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
OPENING WITH “REVENGE,”
SATURDAY, MARCH 4.
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
■ Opposite Railway Station—Wliere all Id. trains stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER
WEST’S PICT PRES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FASOLA, The Great Indian Fakir.
COOPER & LAIT, Musical Comedy Artists.
ROUSBY’S Flashlight Scenes —AROUND PARIS.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
BABY WATSON, LORNA and TOOTS POUNDS,
CAMILLE CORNWALL, HARRY LINDEN,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
WILD WILLIE AND WEST, Comedy Acrobats.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
SIX AMERICAN DANCERS.
JULIAN ROSE, Monologue Entertainer.
KAVANAGH BOYS, Tennis Racquet Jugglers.
LUCIA COLLINS, Musical Sketch Artiste.
YETTA, Wire Walker.
Plan at Allan’s. gs~ PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S ENTIRELY NEW
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE GAY GRIS IOTTE.
MUSICAL FRIVOLITY IN TWO ACTS.
Plans at Allan’s. tW' PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 4,
MAX MAXWELLS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
—IN—
E. Hill Mitchelson’s Romantic Costume Play,
KEVENGE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction of GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 4,
ALLAN HAMILTON’S NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
WHY MEN LOVE WOMEN.
Cast including MISS FRANCES ROSS,
MR. CONWAY WINGFIELD.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Reserved Seats, 4/-
L|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Funny
Pantomime,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
For which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS,'
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been organised
such as has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
\At E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE nEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
nightly AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays* All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Charig’e every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
»
LL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Mutinies-—Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
QPEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. KILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.30.
THE FOLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, 1/-, 6d.
WIRTHS'©L.YMPIA.
, EVERY EVENING AT 8
M ati nees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CPENCER'SIHtATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
-a /IRE SURER.!OR TO /ILL OTHERS.
Popular Prices Plan as Usual.*>
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
11th to 19th April, 1911,
ENTRIES CLOSE
Horses - March 15
Cattle - March 16
Sheep and Pigs - = March 16
Poultry = March 17
Dogs === = =
Farm and Dairy Produce
Women’s Industries
Miscellaneous =
= March 20
= March 21
= March 22
= March 23
PRIZE SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS
Posted on Application.
Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER,
Secretary.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Carrying one class of passengers only.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15b. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GF.O. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO ;. Twin-Screw .. 12,130 Regd Tons
OSTERLEY „ „ 12 129
OTRANTO.. „ „ io'ivi
OTWAY " 12 077
ORSOVA „ 12 036
ORONTES „ .. 0 023
OMRAIT .. ~ s'2B 9
ophip ;; 6 ; 8 i4
, n^ ed "’1 th ' Vire,eBB Telegraphy. New and, luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Qabines-de-'dxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single %r.th Room-, private Bathrop.ms;
Electric! I ( .i and ies.
Jaiii.ng every fortnight (rom BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
M^I,,BOURNE, ADELAIDE, a,p,d FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
1,2 Martin Place, Sydney.
_ Public &c.
of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED,.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
**EAQ OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
i- MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Comer of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNV.
Local Director :
AD.AM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Phil* & Co., Ltd.).
CONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD. _
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual B* iking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £564,134
CRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Bankinir
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED. "
(Registered 1900 under the ColVipanies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . ' £2' 00d 000
SUBSCRIBED 1 '.• 1 .0. .. . . £i’l97'l2r
FAHUUP (31st December, 1910) -•-• £1,1^5,933
HEAD 9 FF,CE — IQeorge 1 Qeorge and King greets, Sydney.
LONDON, OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
William P. Hanning. Kt., Chairman ;
Gkorgk J„ Sly, Esq., I.L.D. ; 'CiIAS. ll.'Myles, 1 Esq.'
WXrk SitteboK; Esq. Arthur S.Barton, Esq.'; Frank
ly. tARWoOb, Esqi <• • ' ’• ' 1 1 - . ■
Branches throughout New South Vyal.es and, Q,u l eensia,nd,
Agencies throughout the Australian Gwinon wealth,
New Zealand,, and. all the principal to\yn,B o( the worl*l). '
A' STEWART, General Manager.
The .77 ~
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091’069 4 6
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors : JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., MLO '
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, E<q. ’
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . .
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock)
£319,237 0 0
161,384 0 0
75,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. f 7 0 -°
Gen. Mngr. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. ™0 ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The golonial gjutual [ife
\ ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
'v FOR
MutUSli 'Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
< without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116,154—Assuring £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4;727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors ;
The Hoi. C. J. Roberts, C.M.Q.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A- ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary,
Shipping;.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord
BY
D eutscher
JLy loyd.
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE ..1., £O6 11., £3B 10s. IH., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Gepoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
10 Fitted with “ Wireless” installation.
* Arriving- in London in good time for the Coronation,
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea,, by Twin-screw Steamers.
Eor Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN 00., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
mHE BULLETIN POST CAftDS-New
X Senes. IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
fcd.; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,U)0 tons, to sail about
March 18.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
April 13.
*ERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 10.
RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
uni/ one Class of Accommodation..
FAKKS—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £'24 3, O'
London .. .. 19 0 0 CQ 30 Oi 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 2p O’ 0
Pamphlets and all other information.on.application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd,.,
Agents in. Australia.
TN€ &B€RP€€N LINC.
Qppqtown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT ©URBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
k Calls Hobart. Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Oape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hi chest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
to Papua and the Pacific islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Mar. 10, April 21. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
April 7, May 19. (five weeks’ round tfjp), (
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island apd.
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) ReTjUR,n s £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, froip £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge Sf>, SYDNEY,..
government savings bank of new south wales,
HEAB OFFICE;?. MOOI<E STREET, SYDNEY.
The Commissioners have MONEY TO LENDj TO FARMERS anti SETTLERS from £6O to £2OOO, repayable by
istalmenfs extending 6Ver 30 years. Ipnv rate's of. interest and special repayment privileges.
The Bavmjrs accepts DEPOSITS frpm 1/- M .j to £500.. Interest paid on. the wlniwum
HP "*j®j a< » rates of interest on City or Country Freeholds.,
parueulars and forms,of" application a,t any branch,. Vest ©ffi.ee Agency, Crown hands Cfß.ee, or at the
Head Office, MppjHjj. STREET, SYDNEY. J,.H. Dawes, Secretary.
BANK QF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-p.p papital -
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
ipi riotous,:
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
¥op,. C. ¥• M,ac¥.ella,r, M.Ie.C., President.
Senator The ploij, .Tames Thoma,s Walker.
Tfte ¥op, Peyinatd, James Black, M.L.G.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Nortmviid MaoLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Head OfH e t^;^ Ge^ Mi ' B<,n * Es ?’ ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ' '
jS3S3^SSSS^ A S 3
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Fnrein-n Rmi f ,
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT*THE WORLD.*"**
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manatrer.
Cuflos, Shells &, Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
E-tablished 1860.
Tost & Rohu
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. C.P.O
SYDNEY. 0 ntral 2196.
Large Showrooms and Museum,.containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
o/fi fnf: C a o Ve Grass presses, 4/6. Row and Six Arrows
ShipM! m v Sp 0 ? rs ’ 9 labs ’ Idols - Ka '« and Food Bowls
Shie.dsMasks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappaand Mattinc
let Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each •
Snake Skm Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,’
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Hats,
And 605 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374. Stuffed Birds and Sals inTarJe* Variety
All I urchasks Packed Free and Labelled. Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund ...
Reserve Capital ..
£1,500,000 0 0
1,420,000 0 0
1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRROTORS;
George J. Corns*, Esq Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Ratf.r M.L.C. .. ... Deput\'-Chairman
lion. H. Moses, M. L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson* Esq'
Hon. James Burns, M.E.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson Esq
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs. ’
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massif..
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
VV. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiet.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton •
N. I). Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all • classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on W 001, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
. , ... ,°f various classes.
An Australian Institution.
; THOMAS M. TINLEY. Man urer.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
171 IRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
- pensation, public risk, bur.
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO..
(IjIMITEP).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and'from .
West Australian, South Australian,,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantl
to ail North Western Ports
GERALDTOX (W.A.)
S ( S. Kano w 113,.April..land!
A prill 29>
(To Fremantle without;
trail shipment),.eonneeti--
iiiff with- Itoombaws*
in- Fremantle for North
West Forts.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to ©aim*.
S.S. Grantala, March 11.
S.S. Yonjrala. March 18.
Best and Cheapest Route to Go/dfields.
„ Passage Tickets are interchangeable after tlie
first r ort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNF j-
CANfIDIAN-fIUSTRAI jan
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
JHJfj ALL-RED liODy'jjjj
J o \ ANCOUVER -fiMSBANE,.
rm and thence-
y Vt of CANADA .
or UNITED STATES
The Best to Europe.'^
SAILINGS :
Twin-screw i *
•Steamers. | Lkms.
j.
MAKURA
zealanma".
MARAMA
MAKURA
zeaiuandxa';
8.100
6,700
0,600
8,100
0,700
Arrive-
Aprill 6’
May 3f
May 311
Jaime- 28>
Jfully 261
All Steamers fitted! with .Wireless- Telegraphy.
Illustrated Eree an Application.
anrf'Ff„ t c hl:P^ hOU i Canftda - Slates
and Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION* STEAM; SHIP' COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Accents, 259.Ge©»ge-street, Sydney
H. £
Federal-Houlder-Shire Linos.
or London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL. f
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK 1,
11,300 Tons. )> '
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - ' about
» » » SYDNEY- - 7th
: : SS Si™ «jg
_» , » ADELAIDE- 21s Mar
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth ''
ca.lHiis on the upper deck, situated amidships. * ''
Ihe superior third-class accommodation, comnrised of <
four ,, ai ‘ d «g»it-berth cabins, situated on'*,the main '
w o uV a ni u ,,p ! l ’.' V,th . di "i»»g 100 m on the inipe, deck ,
£, %hted and ventilated cabins and spacious^ ecks '*
Third-class passengers supplied with fresii provisions) ,
from cool oh amber throughout the voyage.' Su'eo.a
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughoutßeturn
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or 'l
loutes. Prepaid passages arranged. 1
FARES- Saloon. ° ' Third Class..- a
LONDON and
LIVERPOOL..
£49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 iil-fi/s.
Tn uTZT ge f , at ' es lrom Brisbane One Guinea,e*tra.
To be followed at regular four-weeklv intervals. Uv fast
mnii SC f e J> PA | e " K ' er steamers - l ? or further information
h;t^ books, pamwbiets, etc., apply tO .
Ud ‘> Me »« :
T HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS ;
agency company limited
OA«*AJi,PAff„r ,iM i- T*»,»> 0v»
UESEUAE 1- UND (Investedin Debentures ’
Stock, and First Mortcajres) .. *O7 non n n,,
7 P ,R i c ? OR ® : R - Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman •
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. l'ratt • J hY
MacFarland, to W A LED. ; Alexander M'Cracken \~
®OUROWMAN, Manager. /’
FItLDH. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrafa
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE VIC
63* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.YY.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ichelin
Tyres.
For Sale.
QHEAP, Second-Hand
TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Ai ily Manager, “ BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
r r H ih^ St^ lia « Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.


EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON).
{J The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
d[ Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Cable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.”
tariff Booklet gratis
at office of this paper.
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS !
Temperature mild ; Atmosphere exhilarating ; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
The Leading Hotel—the Fashionable Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished ; Excellent
Attendance; First-class Cuisine; Kosher Meat; Telephone; Electric Light; Sele’ct Billiard
Room, etc. Central Situation; close to River, Rail, Trams, Gr.P.O., Tourist Bureau, etc.
Rooms now king booked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highffeld Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
SCIENCE
behind it !
n^ EB F C ?u is a com P le te scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
' Ifc s a lkaline properties correct the acidity of
P *; eV ? nt bacterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar
?ngVumr ff ° ratinfi: the tiBB^a . remedies shri„ k :
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLB AOKNT—
Q ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Bt., Sydney.
(Wholesale Only.)
P€ B € CO
tooth pastf
“PotPourri
stands
for
Quality
“POT POURRI” Cigarettes. -The
highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per
packet of 10 ; 4/6 per 100.
POT POURRI ” Cigars. A fragrant
smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/-; 18/6 per 100.
POT POURRI” Tobacco —4oz. tins.
2/-; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/- per lb. There is
none better than this—it is the BEST.
POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-
mounted, superior quality, all shapes,
2/6 each.
If not procurable at your own Ti bacconist’s, call
or write for catalogue to
A. A. MARKS
Sole Agent, George St.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
TK
Famous Schebkr Carburetor
The best Vaporising: Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving:, if you want to get more HOUSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and ail Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Aoetylene Burner House).
PI LLI/JDDS
/
m.
mmm
mam-
isms
m *
3505- \»
50 years ago the name of Alcocfc was practically unknown—to-day
it is synonymous with billiards. Why ?
They have always maintained that high standard of excellence,
so scientifically and accurately constructed their tables, cues, etc., that
it is no wonder that the popularity of Alcock Tables has grown so
much.
Gray, who made his wonderful break of 836—831 coming off the
red—and other prominent players, are prompt to proclaim these tables
as perfect in every respect.
We make them in all sizes and styles—the “Bijou" table is a
special favorite for the home.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue—we supply every billiard
requisite.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty.Ltd.
Billiard Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
S^vfX^H S 'v, a " °.* t * ie and most successful rinks in America,
tKATt?<a a J^ he World > fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
tit u na\e held all World s Records for 2i years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skats Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON’*
CHICAGO
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEH sd.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
STEVENS
“LITTLE KRAG” RIFLE NO. 65
UCLT ACTION. SIMPLE CONSTRUCTION.
Weighs 3X pounds. For .22 Long Rifle R. F. Cartridges.
STEVENS RIFLES hold more Records for accuracy than a.i other
makes combined.
Order
STEVEN’S
from your
Dealer.
Writa for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[4
The perfect edge, protected blade
and j “ no stropping ” of the Gillette
Safety Razor make Gillette shaving
exceptionally clean, safe and easy.
British made and sold everywhere. Write for “ Hints
on Shaving," sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd.,
17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Gillette
NO&TROPPIKG NO HONING
Safety
Razor


HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
MEN’S COMPLETE OUTFITTERS,
Australasian Emporium for Tourists and Travellers’ Requisites.
Our TRAVELLING OUTFIT DEPARTMENT
is one of the largest
and most varied in
the Commonwealth, and stocks only the Highest Grade and most Up-to-date
Goods at Moderate Prices. TWO LEADING LINES: —
OVERSEA CABIN TRUNKS.
Rest Compressed Fibre. Covered Green
WiHesden Canvas. Copper liiveted
throughout. Two Solid Brass Lever
Locks. Prices—6s/-, 70/-, 75/-
SUIT CASES.
Solid Leather. Two splendid Brass
Lever Locks. Capped Corners. Prices—
-60/-, 65/-, 70/-
By consulting- us you can reduce your luggage?, and add greatly to your comfort.
' Let ;is offer you; our expert advice. 1
BRISBANE, Townsville, Toowoomba and London.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
IN BANANA LAND
Up at Cairns they used to measure rain-
fall by inches. Then they tried feet, in deference
to the rainfall. Now they are driven to estimate
it by the yard. Next month they’ll probably do
it by the fathom. The last report read Iyd. Oft. 4in.
Livingstone, the Queenslander, whose
name as a lightning “fleecer ” would have earned
him backing to challenge the world’s best at any
time, will be missing when the roll is called at the
“big gun” sheds this year. Dalgety’s have
secured him as a traveller.
Longreach has to make a shocking con-
fession: it is suffering from a vegetable famine
because flood waters have destroyed various Chow
gardens. And Longreach returns a Labor mem-
ber, and is strong in labor unions, and talks quite
fluently about White Australia.
A Longreach shearer named Oscar Jones,
while asleep, was bitten inside the mouth by a
snake the other night. Jones had read the
Scriptures which say that strong drink biteth like
a serpent; but he knew the difference at once,
and didn’t for a moment imagine that he was
having another pint. He therefore pursued the
snake promptly ; but it escaped. So, with luck,
did Jones.
Norman Lindsay’s friend, the native hear,
is to be given a chance in Bananaland. A pro-
clamation has been issued protecting him right on
till April 30 of next year ; and Mount Gootha, the
leased portion of Boonara run and the Shire of
Wynnurn have been proclaimed reserves wherein
he may find sanctuary all the year round and
always. >
The floods in Central and North Queens-
land have been playing Henry, sen., with the
mails. The people at Iffley station got so tired of
waiting for the mailman to turn up that they
sent the head stockmen to Croydon for letters
and papers. He got there on February 15, and
said that no mail had reached Iffley since the
beginning of the year.
William Kidston was “ farewelled ” by his
moneyed Rockhampton constituents the other
night, and presented with a horrible back-hander
and a rose bowl. The rose bowl was intentional,
but the back-hander wasn’t. It transpired when
various pursey speakers uprose and reminded
Kidston of what he used to be, by telling him that
they had always voted against him during the
early part of his political career.
No. 10 tunnel on the Cairns-Kuranda rail-
way, which collapsed a while ago, has a lot to
answer for. Einasleigh has run out of explosives;
Chillagoe is crying “ Coke ! Coke !” as hoarsely
as a frog; the Tommy Burns tin mine wants tim-
ber; and lots of people want beer. The relief
gang which has been slaving to dig the tunnel out
was swamped the other day, and a hurricane
playfully blew its tents into the next ravine.
Altogether, Nature seems to be having a great
joke up north lately.
“Barak”: Brisbane has just been deli-
vered of a tine, healthy University. Four Pro-
fessors have been appointed, as a first instalment,
and all have now arrived. Two are from England;
the others are Professor Gibson, of Sydney, and
Prof. Steele, of Melbourne. Bertram Dillon
Steele, D.Sc., takes the chair of chemistry. Three
years ago Sydney would have none of him, for no
other reason, apparently, than because, scholastic-
ally, he was made in Victoria, and this in
face of the fact that a committee of the world’s
experts, headed by Sir Wm. Ramsay, nominated
him for the N.SAV. chair, then vacant. Brisbane
gains by Sydney’s folly. Steele is not only one of
the most brilliant products of an Australian Uni-
versity, but he is also young, vigorous and keen.
Since his rejection by the Ma State he, in con-
junction with, another Melbourne man (Kerr
Grant), has given to the world the most wonder-
ful of all known micro-balances, a scale that will
literally weigh “trifles light as air”; that, to
speak by the card, will detect a change equal to
one millionth of a milligram. Of the two im-
ported Professors, Henry J. Priestley, London
horn, who fills the chair of mathematics, is only
27. He hails from Manchester. Five or six
years ago he was fourth wrangler at Cambridge.
The classical professor, Michie, is a brawny
Britisher, weighing about 2201 b., and standing
6ft. 3in. He is also a Cambridge man, and holds
his blue for weight-putting.
THE CHILD AND THE
CHURCH.
SMALL BOY: “I want to go too-oo-oo-oo."
SMALL GIRL: “ Don’t cry, Bobby! Don’t you know men never go to church nowadays?”
Cables announce that the birth-rate of
England and Wales for 1910 was 24'8 per 1000,
while the death-rate was down to 13'4—“both
record figures,” adds the cabler. The Queens-
lander remarks with pride that the Bananaland
birth-rate for 1909 was 27'52, while the death-rate
was-only 9'79 per 1000. The fact is that two-
thirds of Queensland is simply one vast sana-
torium, and the other third won’t be far behind it
when the population conforms to the conditions
required. And this was the State,where Tommy
Tanna was “ quite indispensable.”'
“ Politicus Be a recent Bulletin article
dealing with certain utterances of Labor-leader
Bowman on immigration. The attitude of the
Queensland Labor party on this question calls—
shrieks—for reconsideration. Into this State
there have been introduced during the last two
years something like 13,000 or 14,000 immigrants,
who Haye all been easily absorbed to the great
benefit of Queensland. Yet the local Labor party
protests bitterly against the influx of white de-
fenders, and alleges that white immigration
(especially assisted) should cease until the local
unemployed entirely disappear. The last Queens-
land Labor Conference expressly prohibited all
assisted immigration; and. as 90 per cent, of
those introduced; in the last two years were
“ assisted,” one can easily see where Labor ideas
on this question would land us. This attitude is
a piece of rottenness in Labor’s bones, and is
playing the game of the other side. Thousands of
good Democrats who realise the all-importance of
immigration for defence purposes will be com-
pelled to abandon the party, if it doesn’t shift
from its present unpatriotic stand.
Collared a Billet—and Ran.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A large number of political bygones have of late been
kindly appointed to Government billets.— Brisbane daily.
When Wullie Mac Flute was in power
He daily advised and assured us
He studied our weal ev’ry hour,
Until of our doubting he cured us ;
And just as we thankit the Lord
Who’d graciously sent us a Man
Whose brain was a shield and a sword,
He Collared a Billet and Ran !
And .Tenkyns Sinjohn, M.L.A.,
For long of our eyes was the apple;
’Twas lovely to notice the way
He’d stroll down the aisle in the chapel ;
Said we : “ His political foes
They tremble his visage to scan,
They shake at his masterful pose ! ”
But he Collared a Billet and Ran !
And then there was Statesman O'Shea,
Whose touch of the brogue was delicious ;
Whose “ shtick ” in the heart of the fray
Would play in a way that was vicious;
His forte was “ The Man on the Land ”
Whose cause he would keep in the van ;
O’Shea was a Battler with Sand—
But he Collared a Billet and Ran !
A patriot lofty and pure
Was red-whiskbred Sandy Mcßabbit;
He laughed at political lure
His motto would never be “ Grab it U
And we who put Sandy Mac in
From Beersheba bragged unto Dan —
Our man had a soul above “ tin ”
But he Collared a Billet and Ran 1
And if we sent Gabriel in.
That Angel whose sword is a flame,
I’ll wager my soul and my skin
He’d wind up and finish the same;
His epitaph surely would run—
“ Angelic and brief was his span ;
When he tired of political fun,
He Collared a Billet and Ran !”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. February 25, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Charles Baldwin, who has been caterer at
Parliament House for 47 years, has given up the
habit. What a tale he could tell of tropical
thirsts !
Digby Denham, Bananaland’s new Premier,
had a chance once before, but missed the
vehicle. It was when Arthur Morgan threw off
the mantle, and the Cabinet had to find a
successor. Digby was asked on the Friday to
accept. He took the problem home with him till
Monday. Meantime the Labor party, then be-
hind Morgan, gave it out that the Coalition would
fall down dead if Digby was chosen to lead it; so
when Digby arrived on Monday wearing one of
his very rare smiles, the announcement was made
that Kidston would carry the burden. The ele-
vation of Denham will help the Labor party at
the next scramble ; for owing to his want of tact
and all the magnetic qualities, he is an impossible
proposition as a leader.
Could anything be more vexing than that the
newly-appointed Governor of Victoria should
turn out to be first cousin to Parson Heathcote.
who lately came under the same ban that shifted
Douglas Price from the All Saints fold? The
second victim had offered himself up for slaughter
by a pronouncement to the effect that he was in
the habit of thinking for himself, and had
demanded a trial by Synod, the result of which
\ifas not very difficult to prophesy. A vice-regal
friend at Court or Synod, however, alters the out-
look, and prophecy has clowned tools for the
time being.
I did hear that there was a likelihood of
another Parliamentary wedding during the coming
session, which has to do with a personage who
has held an important place and power. The
lady is reported to be of ample charms and a
\yidow to boot.
The rain so flooded the early part of the after-
noon chosen by Mrs. Cecil Palmer for her At
Home that the guests arrived in a state bordering
upon the breast stroke. After that the weather
fined up, and allowed, the sunbeams to peep at
the lovely asters,'roses, red Natal grass and ferns
with which the reception rooms were lined. The
hostess, in. amethyst over white and a big hat,
welcomed the guests of honor—Mrs. Hunter,
from Melbourne, and her sister-in-law.
At Maryborough, the other day, H. S. Gold-
smith was married to Miss Mary Henty, a grand-
daughter of Stephen Henty, the Victorian
pioneer. Like good pioneers, the Hentys left
much stock behind them—good, mostly. There
is a public monument to one sprig of the old
tree at: Manly. That plucky Fred Smalpuge,
who, though weak from an illness, plunged in to
save a drowning woman and lost his life, belonged
to the family. 6
The two Charleville editors have finished
their argument. It ended, at the opening of a
new Gymnasium Club, in the middle of the third
round. The Times led all through, and the
Guardian had to be helped out by the Law The
Nose had it.
Among the trippers this autumn are the W. H
Campbells, who go in search of European pleasures
in a month or so. Mr. Campbell is an old news-
paper man, and was “out West ” before he took
to dropping asleep on the comfortable benches of
the Upper Legislative Chamber.
Brisbane cabmen have had a very laudable
burst of energy. They propose to run a race-
meeting of “four flat events, a trotting match
and a novelty race” ; only cab horses to nominate
and all riders to be jehus. The cricket ground is
at their disposal free, and if the public will pass
out the necessary prizes, the united cabby expects
to make the general hospital a present of £2OO.
The other day an intruder visited the cham-
bers of ex-Attorney General Blair and stole
that lawyer’s bag. The legal profession in Bris-
bane is, on general principles, horrified. Is there
no such thing as gratitude, it asks! Is there no
honor among—well, practitioners?
Dengue fever is making Western Queens-
land feel sore and sorry. Barcaldine has had 400
bases in a few weeks. The disease begins with a
rash and the pains of hell in the joints; then
comes a fever, which runs to 104° in some cases,
and which recurs after the patient has been
normal for two days. The last act in the night-
mare is another rash, after which the patient is
left as weak as a politician’s worst excuse, and
with a taste in the mouth that suggests an over-
night consumption of dead crow and over-dead
alligator. The disease is virulently contagious,
and is supposed to be a Chinese complaint; but
less is known about its parentage than is desirable,
considering its familiarity.
Some day Northern Bananaland will make
money by harnessing its magnificent water falls,
back of Cairns. Some years ago a co. did try to
get rights to the Barron cataract, but the grab
was blocked, though it would have been better
not to have blocked it if nothing is going to be
done by the State. Then there are the less-well-
known Tully falls. The other day the Railway
Department was urged to harness these up and
electrify a railway line to serve the Evelyn dis-
trict. But the trouble is that the energy would
have to be carried about 20 miles, and this would
make it too costly. The Barron falls tumble
700 ft. ; the Tully nearly 900 ft. Over both preci-
pices a fine volume of water goes all the year
round. Through the intervention of an officer of
the Railway Department a large area of land has
been reserved around these falls, and in time there
should be a hive of industry buzzing thereabouts.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Laborite Adamson’s win at Rockhampton
throws another candle-power or two of light on
Kidston’s retirement; for it shows the thin thread
by which Wullie was hanging. Adamson—who
satin one Parliament as member for Maryborough
—ought to make a valuable member of the party.
He didn’t do much before because he didn’t feel
comfortable, didn’t know how badly the insect of
politics had bitten him, and had made up his mind
to drop the game. Now he will probably decide
that he is in the business for good, and will put
his fine talents as a speaker to fuller use. He is
by profession a parson—lately of the Ann-street
Scotehbyterian Church.
‘ ‘ Bromide ”: Talk about luck ! The South
Queensland Railway gambled with Death for
a whole flooded fortnight, and won right through.
More marvellous than all, not a whisper was
heard in public about the game. The main line
to Brisbane runs through the range, and shortly
after leaving Toowoomba you get into a long run
of big cuttings and deep gorges. When the wet
weather set in, gangs were kept busy patrolling
this line; in one place seven men were stationed
to watch a threatened landslip. Day after day
trucks were thrown off, and on one occasion a
whole train was derailed. An engine reached
Spring Bluff without a cowcatcher—knocked off
by a big boulder which slipped off the hillside !
A big tree fell and laid across the line—and was
noticed just in time by a driver. Yet not a
whisper leaked out. Victoria ought to send a
man up here to learn how to keep things dark.
“ Ramoth Gilead ” : There’s a lot of good
legislation going to waste in Queensland that
might be usefully employed in raising the stan-
dard of cleanliness on the sugar plantations. On
most of the plantations round Bundaberg the
sleeping accommodation of the men is too popu-
lous altogether. Other dirt—slush water, animal
and vegetable refuse and cognate filth—abounds
on all sides, and is responsible for myriads of
flies, and the frequent typhoid outbreak. And no
person could reasonably be called a liar who said
that the sugar shows on the northern rivers of the
Ma State are not much better. I don’t know
whether the palm-oil tree flourishes there as
abundantly as it is said to do in Bananaland, but
that could easily be ascertained by the surprise
visit of a strong, incorruptible official with a
disrespect of persons and a bagful of summons
forms.


NEARLY
ONE MILLION BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY IN
AUSTRALASIA
PERTH
.ADELAIDE
Df MORSES
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
N
i %
How Australians Eat.
There are probably no people who eat so often,
from the time of rising in the morning to the time
of retiring for the night, as the average Aus-
tralian, and it is a faot that tea is almost always
found to be one of those things partaken of at
each meal, as well as at other odd times of the day.
There is no doubt that altogether too much tea is
taken by many people for their good, and that
many of the digestive irregularities are due to
this cause. The average Australian has a cup of tea
before he gets up in the morning, or as soon after
as possible, followed a little later by a fairly good
breakfast, consisting of porridge, eggs, chops, etc.,
and more tea. Great nurabersof people have a little
“snack” about 11 o’clock; the women generally
have tea or coffee and cakes, while the men have
several drinks of something stronger, paying par-
ticular attention to the free lunch which is so
bountifully provided by most of the public houses.
Nothing could be worse than the food taken from
these free lunches at this hour of the day, which
is often of great variety and indigestible even if
taken under the best conditions. A good luncheon
follows about 1 o’clock, and in the afternoon, be-
tween four and five, all classes of the community
collect to drink tea and eat all kinds of
things, from hot muffins to the most fearful
creations of the pastrycook’s art. Between
six and seven the average Australian again
does himself proud at dinner. No people on
earth eat and drink more heartily or enjoy the
good things of life to a greater degree. Finally,
before going to bed, another “ snack,” consisting
of anything at hand, very often cheese and cold
meat and rriany other kinds of rich food are taken,
together with something good to drink, such as
beer, stout, whisky, coffee and cocoa, or still
more tea. Is it any wonder, under these cir-
cumstances, that the digestive apparatus is un-
able to carry out the work intended for it ? The
wonder is it performs the work as well as it does;
but, sooner or later, help must be given, or there is
a stop in the working of this most delicate human
mechanism. After every meal there should at
least be an interval of three hours before food is
again taken into the stomach, not only to allow
the proper digestion of what has already been
eaten, but also to allow the stomach and organs
of digestion to recover after the labor required to
digest the previous meal, and to recuperate
strength to undertake the burden of properly dis-
posing of the meal that is to come. If cold water
is poured into a boiliug kettle, the water that has
been boiling immediately stops until the cold
water which has been added has been brought up
to the temperature of the boiling water. It is the
same with food. Immediately food is taken into
the stomach the process of digestion starts; if soon
afterwards more food is taken, the process of
digestion stops at once on the first food, and
begins all over again on the last quantity re-
ceived until it brings it up to the point reached
when the second quantity was taken. In the
meantime, while this process of digestion is catch-
ing up, the food partly digested has to wait, and
in waiting often sours the stomach, producing in-
digestion, constipation and sick headache, with
all the ills which go with these disorders.
The liver becomes inactive, the kidneys are
affeoted, and the whole system is out of tune.
Few people realise the energy required to digest a
big meal, and the amount of labor the stomaoh puts
forth to successfully accomplish it. Taking the
food and churning it up into a mass to be assimi-
lated for the nutrition of the system is ho
small task, and when more material is
furnished than this most delicate organ can
possibly handle there is a full stop, and trouble
ensues. The same thing happens in a mill or fac-
tory. When an ordinary engine is given more
than it can carry it comes to a full stop, and all
the machines depending upon it stop as well. So
it is with this human engine ; when too much is
asked of it it stops, deranging every part of the
great human machine. If its warnings were only
heeded, that it was being given heartbreaking
and impossible tasks to perform, much of the
misery of life would be avoided. If it could only
speak it would cry out aloud against the burden
which it is beinggiven daily, protesting its inability
to successfully do what people expect of it,
but always struggling on until the breaking
point is reached. Many people never actu-
ally reach that breaking point, and although
they eat a great deal oftener than they
should and a great deal more than nature requires
to maintain health and strength, they have found
it absolutely necessary to keep a remedy like Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills always at hand, and
after having indulged too freely in food or drink
they take one or two pills to assist the proper
digestion and assimilation of the food. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are made for just these
kind of conditions and with this idea solely in
view, and thousands of people are taking them
and keeping their systems in proper order by
their occasional use. No other medicine, whether
it be pill or tablet, liquid or solid, has ever
been so universally arid successfully used by
all classes of the community, both rich and poor.
They are not advertised as a great “Cure-All,”
but as a safe, sure, and reliable remedy for the
little Ills of Life, for which they are unexcelled.
People who eat and drink too much, or get their
system upset from any other cause, need a medi-
cine of this, kind to keep the digestive track in
proper working order. Many serious illnesses are
avoided by keeping such a simple remedy at hand,
and once or twice a week taking a dose sufficient
to cleanse and tone the system, This-is the Secret
of good health in Man, Woman and Child, and
anyone failing to recognise,this simple truth runs
a risk of contracting any of the dreaded com-
plaints so common. The old saying “An ounce
of prevention is worth a pound of cure ” was
never more aptly to the point. Dr. Morse’s,
Indian Root Pills are based on a good sound
formula, and are in use by thousands of people.
They get at the cause as no other remedy does,
regulating, toning and strengthening the whole
system. As a searching, cleansing remedy these
pills are unexcelled, and once tried they are
found so efficient in overcoming Stomach Troubles,
Constipation, Sick Headache, Indigestion and
Liver Complaints that they are constantly used
and always with the most gratifying results.
Neighbors, friends and relatives all testify to
the marvellous cleansing and purifying properties
of these pills, and their ever-increasing sale bears
testimony to their splendid efficacy.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets.
A Safe, Sore and Reliable Remedy for the
Eradication of Worms in Children
and Adults.
Worms, by their movements, and the interrup-
tion they offer to the contents of the bowels,
generally occasion pain or uneasiness in the abdo-
men, sometimes spasmodic, sometimes gnawing or
biting, and not infrequently of a vague, indescrib-
able character, and yet very distressing. Sympa-
thetic with this is a sensation of itching at the
anus and at the nostrils, producing a disposition
to scratch the fundament and pick the nose,
which is characteristic of this affection. The
bowels are often disordered, sometimes consti-
pated or stopped, and sometimes relaxed with
occasional bloody discharges, as 'in dysentery.
The discharge is sometimes in shreds or flakes,
which are not infrequently mistaken for fragments
of partially-digested food. It is not uncommon
for portions of undigested food to pass with the
discharged. The appetite is exceedingly variable;
in some bases natural, in others deficient, crav-
ing or depraved; one condition not infre-
quently alternating with another. The abdomen
is often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue furred, with
disagreeable taste, and a copious flow of saliva;
swelling of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils,
and disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms. The effects,
however, often extend beyond the alimentary
canal, and various derangements of health are ex-
perienced in consequence either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among the most
common of these are nervous affections, such as
fretfulness, irritation of temper, wakefulness, or
disposition to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep,
sudden starting out of sleep as if from fright,
dizziness, spasmodic movements of the eyelids,
dilated pupils, perverted vision, temporary blind-
ness and deafness. General convulsions are not
infrequent in children, and symptoms strongly
resembling “Water on the Brain,” have been
ascribed to worms and have ceased on their ex-
pulsion.
Oases of St. Vitus’ dance, melancholia and ner-
vous diseases, and even insanity have been attri-
buted, with the most apparent reason, to the
same cause. In addition to these affections may
be mentioned obstinate cough, spasm of the
glottis, palpitation, languid circulation, pale and
yellowish skin, sunken eyes, a livid circle about
the eyelids, and a general emaciation. " This con-
dition is often accompanied by fever, and is then
called worm fever. Persons in apparently perfect
health may be afflicted with worms, and the only
symptoms may be periods of irritableness, or a
constant desire for something to eat, which may
last for months until the system breaks down,
and the worms manifest their presence in some
other manner.
Worms have frequently been described by
medical men as “The Children’s Enemy.” Un-
doubtedly there is no greater enemy to health,
happiness, and comfort of children than the
presence of worms in the stomach and intes-
tines ; causing an indescribable irritation and
gnawing in the bowels, which upsets its viotim,
impairs the health, spoils the temper, and drives
the mother to distraction, and earns for the little
innocent the harsh and undeserved reputation of
being “ a cross child.”
Unfortunately many mothers fail to recognise
the fact that their little ones are suffering intense
pain and distress, and are practically irresponsible
for the outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious symp-
toms appear nothing is done to alleviate the dis-
tress. The symptoms of this disease are some-
what variable, but generally they are so charac-
teristic that no mother need have any doubts.
The best proof of worms is worms, and if the
general conduct of the child is such as to give the
slightest suspicion, an examination of the stools
(evacuation from the bowels) will afford ample
proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an indifferent
state of health. It becomes peevish and irritable
in its temper, and complains of itching of the nose,
whilst the same symptom may be very prominent
indeed in the lower part of the bowel. Another
point to which the attention of mothers should be
specially directed is that the child is apt to start
in its sleep, its repose being in this way of a dis-
turbed nature. Note also that many children
who are in the habit of wetting their beds do so
by reason of the irritation which these worms
produce in the body, the irritation extending to
the bladder and causing it involuntarily to part
with its contents.
In every heap of decaying matter there is
always to be found a nest of worms. They breed
and multiply in impure matter. And so it is in
the human system. The accumulation of partially
digested food in the intestines, which becomes
putrid when the bowels are constipated, induces
the presence of worms. A few doses of Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, followed by a dose
or two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, will dis-
turb them in their nest, and drive them out of the
system.
The Use of Purgatives.
Although the use of medicines which are simply
purgatives may cause the discharge of some small
worms, such medicines are useless to thoroughly
eradicate the pest. Physics which do not kill
the worms and their eggs have no permanent
results, as the worms pass through the matter in
the intestines and reach the upper portion of the
bowels or the stomach, or fasten themselves to
the membranes of the intestines until the effect of
the purgative is over. Worms require a specific
medicine, and there is no remedy so effective as
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. They
kill the worms, destroy their eggs and dislodge
their nests.
Comstock’s “ Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
scientific preparation, prepared in the form of a
sweet that children eagerly take. They are
packed in glass tubes with full directions jn each,
and are for sale by chemists and stores generally
at 2s. 9d. per packet, or six packets for 15s. ; and
if unable to obtain locally, will be mailed post
free on receipt of price. Prepared only by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.. 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.; and Farish Street, Wellington,
N.Z.


Another Sydney magistrate has arisen in a
loud voice to declare that the sacred rights of
Propputy must be respected even if the gaols
burst with their burden. Henceforth, he pro-
mises the pilferer from “bargain” sale counters
a ise of cold cell instead of a fine. Also, he
s' .ounced that the same reward would be passed
.1 the short-weight thief, and a charge of
manslaughter fitted to the milk adulterator.
That is to say, he didn’t actually announce
these latter things ; but the Sydney magistrates’
well-known sense of justice leaves a verbal assur-
ance unnecessary. In any case, the savage fine of
15s. inflicted last week on a local shopkeeper
whose lib. weight was loz. short is a warning that
must give such swindlers pause.
Taverner, Agent-General for Victoria
in London, has been booming his State in a gal-
1 mt fashion. The following is from one of his
immigration articles in an English paper : —
The intention is to offer special facilities to the cribbed,
cabined and confined British agriculturists and farm
laborers to stretch their limbs and extend their energies
in the broad and f -rtile expanse of the great Victorian
oolon.v. There is plenty of elbow room in Victoria.
The colony has an area of square miles.
Halley’s comet, with its few million miles of tail
and constantly growing, might have a run practically
within Victorian limits without causing much inconveni-
ence to the herdsmen and general cultivators of the soil.
In view of the fact that a territory of 50,000,000
square miles is about 17 times larger than the
whole of Australia, it would seem that Taverner
has been guilty of a slight exaggeration. How-
ever, what is a little thing like that to a man who
desires nothing less than a comet to finish off his
prose picture !
WHY YOU CAN TBUST MY
FREE CIGAR
TRIAL
mar /r+mz
mum
ALMOST everybody knows about my eftorts
to make Cigar-smoking popular in Aus-
tralia.
My FREE CIGAR TRIAL is this:—l’ll send
you a box of ioo DIADEMAS for 22/G—equal, as
they are, to any 6d. Cigar on the market; really
worth £2 ss. per 100 —and you can smoke 5 or 6
of them. If they aren't as good as any Cigar
you have ever tried, send the remainder back to
me, and I'll refund your money in full, without
any charge for those you’ve smoked.
Now, I want to prove to
you how straight this ofler is.
You might think—“ Why
doesn’t he send the box up
without any money, and let
us send the money on when
we’ve tried the 5 or 6 and
found them as good as he
says, cr else return the
balance then ?”
I tell you right oft, I’d like
to do that. But that would
put all the trusting on my
side—and I've got to make a
living.
I know nearly every man-
jack of you would act straight
to me if I did make this offer.
But you know as well as I
there are some who would
get the Cigars, and let me
whistle for the money.
I know there’d be only a
few who would do this; but
I sell my Cigars so close to
cost —cutting off all the ware-
houseman’s, traveller's and
retailer’s profits—that these
few would cripple my scheme
altogether. That’s why I
can’t do it and give the same
Cigar value as I give to-day.
I know you're trusting me
in sending down the money
before you get the Cigars.
But you’ll get the Cigars
right by return post, never
fear. You can smoke sor 6
of them, and if they’re not
as good as you expected,
ycu can send what are left
right back. I’ll return your money every
penny of it, with no deduction whatever—
and even here you needn't only take my word
for it.
I have my banking account at the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne.
The General Manager there knows all about
me and my way of doing business. He'll vouch
for me; and you can refer to him before you
send any order at all to me. That’s proof of my
squareness, isn’t it?
Sit down now and send me 22/6 to-day, and
I’ll forward you a box of 100 DIADEMAS —
Cigars that I promise are equal to any 6d.
Cigar sold in Australia—made from clean, long,
straight Brazilian leaf, and rolled in the finest
Java wrapper.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Eocklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
p
♦
One of the most
valuable foods known to
the Medical Profession. —“ The
Lancet ” describes it as “ Mr. Benger’s
admirable preparation.”
Benger's Food is distinguished from the others by
the ease with which it can be digested and absorbed.
Benger’s Food is for Infants and Invalids,
and all whose digestive powers have become weakened
throujh illness or advancing age.
BENGE R'S FOOD LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England,
tßengzr s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
824
Will Anprape for BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism,
and
Clairvoyance
An Illustrated
Guide for the Amateur,
describing tlio various
methods adopted by
professors both before
and after Mesmer, and
showing 1 how the mystic
power may be developed.
1 Post Free 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/.. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/.. Wrestling, by Frank
Goteh, World’s Champion,
10J. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mosb Counted Eggs, and
] 15 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simtly Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Bails.
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling: the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Flve Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Sd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOUIIHS
I=REK.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
TWO BEAUTIES
V
£
4.
r'
/.
t»
t~n
A
O
c>
o
O
k ?6Xxyoi
St
3UIXU3ID/’
no mug
) U'clAJ.
A'luo m
m
mirnw
, RUBBER P
E 79 GEORGE J T
/YDEiEY
PICTURE SHOWMEN.
BUY
YOUR
FILMS
FOR A
THIRD
OFF.
It's Stocktaking Time with us!
That means reduce stock—and reduce it quickly.
This is the way we are doing it —offering some
thousands of subjects at
6/8 in the £ OFF LIST PRICES.
mmtmmmßßmmmmmmmammmmmmmmaßSSßmmamummEaßammmmmmmm
Don't miss these Bargains, Mr. Bio-Showman ! Any
film you don't like return it with:n a week
from the time you get it, and we'll exchange
it for another or refund your money.
JERDAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph
•Specialists,
39 3> George Street
(Facing
Roval Motel),
Sydney.
JO3IAH WEDGWOOD & SONS, LTD.
?
V\sn^
• H
*
Established at Etruria, England,
1760 A.D.
as Manufacturers of
CHINA, EARTHENWARE, TEA
and DINNERWARE, TOILET-
WARE and ARTISTIC POTTERY
of all Kinds.
IMPORT AMT. —AII our Goods are
branded “ WEDCWOOD ” only. Any
addition such as “ & Co.’'ineans you
are not buying “ Wedgwood.”
Registered Trade Mark, “WEDGWOOD.” .
SS^a?- ~r V<M. HODGE & SON,
91a York Street, Sydney; and
29 Elliott Street, Auckland.
“KURLO”—Hair-Curling Fluid. Beautiful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo * produces
most natural-looking waves or curls in a lew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. •* Kurlo H curls are not affected by fog.
- - - sea air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for Ladies’, Gent.'s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
2s. 6d., post free, in plain wrapper. American Toilet
Agency, Box 466 G.F.0.. Melbourne.
a
“ ORO-A-HO * forces growth of moustache and whi*-
kers. Bottles, 25., post tree, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 166 G.P.0., Melboarne,
" A WL-YOU-WANT.**
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags. Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes; Sews
2S. Posted, Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
, ~ etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
. repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
fis the “ Awl-you-want." Thread from u.e
reel (which may be kept in one's pocketl is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
•nparent in sewing Carpets. Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc;
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain,
ed. Stout or Tine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, a steel needles—r bent, i straight—r reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
sd., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), sd.,
post free; a for vd., set of 8 for as. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 Collins Street. Melbourne
** 10
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(invisibles *
DEAFNESS
And HEAD NOISES Relieved by
Using WILSON'S COMMON-SENSE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices fai ed and medical skill gave*no
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., r 29 Collin*
Street, Melbourne.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE t
Wiing
yes
{ -
C'j. <s
& fj
[?qw to Train AnimaSo
A Valuable Book by an Experienced
Animal Trainer. Tells ho a- to leach your
Horse to follow you, stand without hold-
ing, sit up, lie down, stand erect, wait*,
<&c. ; your Dog to leap, walk erect, dance,
®*ip rope, sit up. lie down, stand on his
head, &c. It also describes the training of
elephants, lions, tigers, monkeys, mice and
m my other animals and birds of all kinds.
> amorous illustrations Only EIGHT
1* MIS''IE, posted any where. THE UNION
Cu., 299 Elizabeth Street.. Melbourne
Till NAUNTON MUSIC BOOK
full of good tunes that anyone can play
on the Piano or Organ with BOTH HANDS at the very first
try without any knowledge
of music. No trouble, no
difficulty. There has tot
been one failure. You begin
Light 2 S RiiXisg TuPS.b
Everybody delighted. Why
pay Guineas for lessons when this Large Book for S/3
teaches you everything. No teacher needed. Obtainable only
(rom THE UNION CO. 2PP Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
m
nly 5/
™ pay poslace
THE RAPID RECKONER
There are few people who can
multiply, say, 39 by 19 without
pencil and paper, and many after
I making the calculation are not
certain that they have done it
correctly. The Rapid Reckoner
does it in an instant, without the
possibility of error. It costa only
ONE SHILLING, post free any-
where, and we give With it a
handy book of 32 pages of
Tables of Weights 6 Measures.
THE UNION CO.. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
THE RADIANT WATCH
You can see the Time in the Dark
A Great Curiosity and a Good Lever time-
keeper. The Dial, of ordinary appearance
in the day-time, is coated with a light-absorb-
ing substance that emits a radiant glow in
the dark, by which the hands and the hours
can be seen. Keyless movement, very strong
mechanism, in embossed nickel case 10/
or in gold-plated case 12/6, by registered
mail. Cham free if you mention this paper.
The Union Co.» 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
The Joker Kly Scarf Pin
A Realistic Imitation, very strong aityl not
e .si 1 y broken. Everybody wants to “ shoo”
it off. Wear one in your tie and you’li have .
a hundred laughs a day. It’s so fly-like it
woti.d deceive even the birds. It is great fun
and not at all a bad Scarf Pin. Posted any-
where for One Shilling, or we will send it
FREE with an order for any three of the
articles we offer in tnis column if you
mention this paper when ordering
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO.,
Elizabeth street, Melbourne.
WHY SUFFER FROM ASTHMA?
ASTHMATITE, the Great Asthma
Remedy, will immediately ease all the
distressing symptoms, stop the choking, dis-
perse the phlegm, build up the system and
ensure sweet sleep. 2/- and 4/- post free. Trial
packet posted for three penny stamps.
H. YOUNCMAN, Wilmott Street, Sydney.


i 111
r.
11 : i
«§
553!
S
l
3
a
Bj! fBI Bs
PS
B
m
.,ssf
M
mm
5
a
m
• ' - :
i
4,
< ■
!
1
m
IS
m
:
i n
V ‘ 'H:!
eacn .
ST AT
' '•♦***►*/ * jf% I ' ■
r**
' 'i
C9 LIP A.U.S.M.C? LIMITED
Sk ss
■ ~ W w , * * « *» * » * W' * I * * fc* » ♦*<
:;:! .
.
fmp, p: V-
■ ■
k :.
OFFICES
: ; «
AGENTS
ALL
, • ♦ ' ■
zftm


The memory of the late William Kither,
boss butcher of Adelaide and good citizen, is
likely to be carried on in a quaint way. He was
not a card-player himself; but amongst those
South Australians who are a pair of kings
(“butchers”) are very commonly announced as
“Kither and Conrad.” A century hence, the
Abo. column may be holding a controversy as to
the origin of the phrase.
In the strenuous effort to escape payment
of the trifling State land tax, the Victorian farmer
is rushing in all sorts of things as “improve-
ments.” The limit was reached one day lately
when a northern soil-tickler, who had heard that
a boundary fence was an improvement, dropped
into the Tax Office and gradually unloaded him-
self of this query : “ Between me and my neigh-
bor there’s a creek which is our boundary. That’s
to say, it’s a dividing fence. Can that be put
down as an improvement?” The tired
bowed him out. Didn’t kick him, or bundle him.
Just bowed him.
“Boswell”: When the foreman of a
jury recently opined that the police in the case
had committed perjury, Attorney-General Hol-
man was easily convinced that the offending
brass-buttons were ‘‘ well-meaning enthusiasts, ” or
had made an “honest mistake.” He omitted,
however, to mention the date on which he in-
tended to provide the State with a Court of
Criminal Appeal, where similar “honest mis-
takes” would have a chance of rectification. He
didn’t even mention whether he endorsed the late
Labor Conference’s decision that a Court of
Criminal Appeal should be established.
If you are a monarch, the less dead you
are the better you were. London Truth lately
took a vote of its readers to find out who had been
the three best English sovereigns. Edward VII.
was easily first, and Victoria as easily second.
For the worst three, ancient history was at once
drawn on. John won easily, and Richard III.
beat Mary Tudor by a short head ; after them
ran James II. and Charles II. George IV.
was certainly a worse man than some of these ;
but, then, he has been dead less than a century.
CONGO.MS
EACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
72 feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps firmly
together with the adhesive cement which we supply
free. We supply the nails and tin caps free also.
The roof thus laid with Congo will last upwards of
ten years, and will require no care except paintings
at intervals of three or four years. Sample free on
request.
Conpro Damp Course is a waterproof,
antiseptic felt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expense is trifling.
AGENTS NoyeH Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney ;
Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd., Melbourne ; Brabant & Co.,
Brisbane ; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton ; Harrold
Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah
Co., Ltd., Perth.
Tasmanian Agents—William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobart.
Buy the Genuine “PLUM.”
It’s the finest shaving Razor ever ground—Silver-Steel
Blade that keeps its edge—and we put eaeh in perfect
shaving nick before it goes out to the bu,\er. Being
practical Hairdressers we know how to. Each Razor
kept in order free for two years.
The “PLUM”
Post Free
Anywhere
The C. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at night.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post l*'ree.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
ARDATH
LONDON
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
How many smokers really care
what cigarettes they smoke ?
How many always insist on
having their particular brand ?
The answer would astonish any
who do not know the remarkable
sale of “ Winfred ” Cigarettes,
a high-class brand produced
only for men who will smoke
the best purchasable.
Types of
British Manhood.
THE BUSINESS MAN"
finds “Winfred” . Cigarettes no
inconsiderable asset when engaged
in a deal. Says that their quality is
his only excuse for smoking in the
office.
10
d.
1/
Plain or Gold Tipped
Obtainable of all leading Tobac-
conists, Stores, Clubs, Hotels,
&c., throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
ella”
“My
B 1
DAY
NIGHT
Wear
DOES NOT SHRINK
“ VIYELLA ” is soft, light,
unshrinkable and very durable.
It is the ideal fabric for
Blouses, Nightdresses, Under-
garments, Children’s Frocks,
Gentlemen’s Shirts, Pyjamas,
etc.
To be sure you get the
genuine cloth, look for the name
“ Viyella ” on the selvedge.
For sale by all good stores.
Viyella-
a,
1
\'/'
-
IN GOOD
COMPANY
NO man, woman or family possessing an Edison Phonograph need fear
being dull at any time. As these perfect machines can be bought in
Australia at all prices, from the Gem at £2/12/6 to an Amberola at £45,
you have only yourself to blame if your home is not equipped with one.
The Edison Phonograph recalls youthful days to the old ; it charms the
musical by its splendid reproductions from grand opera; it drives away “ the
blues ” by its inimitable repetition of humorous stories, and delights the
children by the tales it tells ; and it proves a bond of union with absent friends.
You can only secure such splendid excellence in a Phonograph by making
sure that you get an Edison.
Go to an Edison dealer to-day and hear this superior instrument. If you
do not know the address of the local store, write us and we will tell you, and
also send complete lists of Edison Phonographs and Records.
EDISON
Phonographs.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
(Wholesale Only), DEL f. B, 364=372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


YHFANt rEEDVHG
Wo Mottver s\vou\d wYvouY ft
,eAft
ow Teawest.
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
15-17 Market Street. Sydney
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tins,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Comer Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Comer of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiik Bulletin.] [6
A HUGE SUCCESS!
Custard »■* Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
WaleSjWhen Stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
m
mm
Y3f
S 0
wt:\
mm
imj
' •• *7%f ...
,y?v iy'Pt l ; ' '
: Isssn if
i ’ •:•—P
lij?
Rt**
f.WOLFFaSOHN
•Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
V*
A Bag of Tricks.
We stock the most clever
and amusing Tricks, Novel-
ties and Surprises In endless
variety. Ask or write for
Catalogue.
THE GREAT C<P TRICK.
The coin vanishes at will in the
most puzzling- way, yet turns
up again in unexplainable man-
ner irom any part of per-
former’s body, or even among
the audience.
Bd. Post Free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lend a
pew charm tct ■predicting'
fortune. Simple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
TRICK CRICKET BAT.
The peg: is placed in one hole,
you breathe on the bat; the
peg: is then found
in the next hole,
and jumps from
one to the other.
A pretty trick.
7d. Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
(H. L. HUTCHINBON LTD.),
710 George Street, Sydney; also
111 King Street 8 25-27 Oxford Street.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing ...
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALEB,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Connell St.,
BYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
“Montserrat
LIME JUICE
is a drink with an interesting flavour ; it is a pure
natural product— not a chemical concoction.
Fresh ripe cultivated limes are alone used in
the manufacture of
"MONTSERRAT" LIME JUICE.
SUPPLIED IN TWO FORMS—
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened, i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
9 9
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Macmillan’s
New Shilling
Library.
LEAVES FROM THE NOTEBOOKS
OF LADY DOROTHY NEVILL.
Edited by RALPH NEVILL.
H.M.I. Some Passages in the Life of one
of H. M. Inspectors of Schools. By
E. M. Sneyd-Kynnersley.
TALES OF OLD JAPAN, By A. B.
Freeman-Mitford (Lord Redesdale).
Illustrated.
KINGSLEY’S AT LAST : A Christmas
in the West Indies. Illustrated.
THE RELIEF OF CHITRAL. By
Colonel G. J. Younghusband and Sir
Francis Younghusband. Illustrated.
barracks, bivouacks, and
BATTLES. By Archibald Forbes.
REMINISCENCES OF THE GREAT
MUTINY, 1857-1859. By William
Forbes-Mitchell.
CAWNPORE. By the Right Hon. Sir
G. O. Trevelyan, Bart.
NORTH ITALIAN FOLK. Sketches of
Town and Country Life. By Mrs.
Comyns Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott.
ALCOHOL AND THE HUMAN
BODY. An Introduction to the Study
of the Subject, and a Contribution to
National Health. By Sir Victor
Horsley, F.R. S., and Mary D. Sturge,
M.D.
Send for Complete Lists of POPULAR I/-
BOOKS (about 150 Vols.).
Macmillan’s
Seven penny Series.
NEW VOLUMES.
26. TONO-BUNGAY. By H. G. Wells.
27. ADVENTURES OF ELIZABETH
IN RUGEN. By the Author of
“ Elizabeth and her German Garden.”
28. CORLEONE. A Tale of Sicily.
By Francis Marion Crawford.
29. — -SANT’ ILARIO. By Francis
Marion Crawford.
30. JOAN OF GARIOCH. By Albert
Kinross.
A MODERN DICTIONARY OF THE
ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Contains
48,719 Words; 750 Abbreviations;
1949 Phrases ; 895 Foreign Words and
Phrases : —A total of 52,313 entries.
Cloth, 1/4 net; Half-Leather, gilt
top, 2/6 net.
A MAP OF THE WORLD ON
MERCATOR’S PROJECTION.
Specially designed for Australasian
schools, showing AUSTRALIA as the
centre of the universe. Size 50m. x
42m. Mounted on cloth. Rollers and
varnished, 127-
ATLAS FOR AUSTRALASIAN
SCHOOLS, Physical and Political,
1/6.
Macmillan’s
Colonial Library
of Copyright Books.
Issued In Paper Covers and in Cloth Boards.
588.— JIM HANDS. By Richard C.
Child. A story of American factory •
life in a New England Town.
572. — THE DOCTOR’S CHRISTMAS
EVE. By James Lane Allen, author
of “The Choir Invisible,’’ etc. A
Sequel to “The Bride of the Mistle-
toe.”
587. —THE MAGIC CITY. A Fairy
Story. By E. Nesbit. With Illustra-
tions by H. R. Millar. (Cloth only.)
582. —THE HUMAN CHORD. By
Algernon Blackwood.
581. —’ TALESOFMEN AND GHOSTS.
By Edith Wharton.
586. — ALONGSHORE. By Stephen Rey-
nolds, author of “A Poor Man’s House.”
Illustrated by Melville Mackay.
584 —THE LITTLE KING. A Story of
the Childhood of Louis XIV., King of
France. By Charles Major, author of
“ When Knighthood was in Flower.”
5 8 S . —princess flower hat.—
By Mabel Osgood Wright, author of
“ Poppea of the Post-Office.”
Complete List sent Post Free on Application*
Macmillan 8 Co. L«
LONDON.


TRODT TACKLE!
We are the LARGEST and LEADING Wholesale
and Retail Distributors of Fishing
Tackle in Australia.
We have Just Opened up a Magnificent Range of New Season’s Trout Tackle. We can supply you Cheaper and Better than any other House. Give us a Trial and he Convinced.
No. 2.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lift, and 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, best fittings, lock joints, etc., £4/4/-
THE M.S. SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, best fittings, £2.
No. 4.— SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, best winch fittings and snake rings, bronze mountings, 25/-.
No. B.— SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, snake rings, welted ferrules, solid fittings, 22/6.
No. 9.— SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, finely finished rod, 30/-.
No. 10S. —SHORT-JOINTED SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, lOJft.,
5 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, solid reel plate, double-brazed welted
ferrules, 21/-.
No. 18.— QREENHEART TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, lock joints, graduated winch fittings, 25/-.
THE M S. GUINEA GREENHEART ROD, lOJft. and lljft., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed winch fittings, snake rings, stained olive
green ; splendid value, 21/- ; other rods from 7/6 to £7/10.
M.S. PERFECTION TROUT REELS, with tension screws and con-
tracted drum; the best Trout Reel on the market; 3in., 25/-;
3Jin., 30/- each.
M.S.' VENTILATED EBONITE BACK ROTARY CHECK REELS,
with wire drum for rapid winding; 2Jin., 13/6; 2|in., 15/6; 3in.,
17/6 each ; other reels from 2/- each.
M.S. PERFECT COLLAPSIBLE TURNOVER TROUT NET, all of
the very best quality and highly finished, 17/6; other complete
Landing Nets from 3/6 each.
We are always pleased to receive Reports
from the various Trout Centres.
TROUT LINES.
We carry the finest assortment of Trout Lines to be found anywhere.
“ KINGFISHER ” PLAITED SILK LINES.
Highly Waterproofed.
SOyds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 7/6 No. 2, 8/6 No. 3, 10/- each.
40vds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 10/- No. 2, 10/6 No. 3, 12/= each.
30yds., Double Tapered.. No. 2, 10/- No. 3, 11/6
40yds., Double Tapered.. No. 1, 11/6 No. 2, 12/6 No. 3, 13/6each.
42yds., Double Tapered.. No. 4, 22/6 No. 5, 25/= No. 6, 27/6 each.
“PERFECT” WATERPROOF PLAITED SILK LINES.
Splendid level lines, made exclusively for us.
No. 40 .. .. 25yds., 2/6 50yds., 5/- each.
No. 30 .. .. 25yds., 3/- 50yds., 6/-each.
M.S. WATERPROOF THREAD LINES.
Made from best Thread, and waterproofed by a new process.
No. 60 .. 50yds., 1/- No. 40 .. 50yds., 1/3 each.
No. I.—PALLEY’S CAST BOOKS, with parchment pockets, 4/- each.
No. 2.—JAPANNED ROUND CAST BOXES, 1/6 each.
No. S.—ALUMINIUM ROUND CAST BOXES, very light, 2/- each.
No. 3.— TAN CANVAS FLY BOOKS, sin., 2/6 each.
No. 6— BEST QUALITY PIGSKIN FLY BOOKS, with xylonite leaf
fitted with 119 Spring- Clips, 8/6 each.
Other Fly Books from 1/. to 17/6 each.
No. 1.-BEST QUALITY JAPANNED EYED FLY BOXES, fitted
with Steel Spring Clips, mounted to xylonite.
51 Clips, 4/6 ; 85 Clips, 5/6 ;'ll9 Clips, 7/- each.
No. 3.—LOCH LEVEN EYED FLY BOX, fitted with Steel Spring
Clips, 2/- each.
SPINNING HEAD TROUT FLIES, 1/6 and 2/3 each.
ROUKE TROUT SPINNERS, 9d. each.
RINGED DEVONS, lin. and ljin., 1/4 ; ljin. and lfin., 1/6 each.
BEST QUILL PHANTOMS, lfin., 2fin., 2fin., 2/- each.
FISHING BROGUES, made of Good Quality Leather, with Canvas
Uppers, all sizes, 22/6 parr.
Trout Casts, Creels, Spinners’ Gaffs, Bags and sundries in endless
variety.
For a comprehensive description and illustrations of all goods, see
our “Australasian Fishing Tackle Catalogue’’—the finest book of its kind
ever published—a copy of which will be posted you immediately upon
request.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
“ THE House That Sells the Best Tackle,”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not soil Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds proteoted Trust Aoeount
Bank of N.S.W.
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Oorre ct Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertab
and agree to send them the sum of
~' FIVE POUNDS
subject to the oonditions hereunder :
Enoo“r a ged hy tiio e n°rm ou s demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
method of advertising, with the object of making our name more widely known, and to introduce our
i»n aeries. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
j?ICTUREPOSTC 6< * to talk ab ° Ut US t 0 yOUr friends > an(l the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS:
±ill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O.R P..T C.R.S A.E T.E B„T V.L.E IN A.S.R.L.A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co.,*Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the Bank of N S W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY. t
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to whioh there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 2/6
tor whioh we will send you Free a sample paoket of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is correot, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
WP P r tt sVf 7°2 r servl .°® B for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copv
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (Bank N.S.W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 100 oorreot answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending oorrect answers in the orderin whioh their answers shall
lave been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO. answers snan
Should your solution reaohus before the closing date* and be correot according to our conditions, and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Ladv's or
Cxentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize. J
if THE MANA a GE°R P oF ied * "“1 C ° UP ° n WMch part ° f this COra P etiti ° n >
FINE ART POST CARD CO.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I acoept as Anal and legally binding.
Signed . .
Address..... ....;
Date.......
What You Get —Not What You Pay — COUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Built hy men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU i
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited,
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Black - !,
LUTETIAN”
CREAM.
For all kinds of Brown
Leather Boots and Shoes.
Has a world - wide reputation.
Made in light and dark colours.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated [1
“MELTONIAN" BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON ( Bl,ck Mj n ;V. a c S” r ° t „ p< " lsh ) LTD., LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyboqk, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s fid. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids!, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will-Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of ls 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not. Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but abbut
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ir- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette,- Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
fqr all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.vsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, is 3d. Tiif. GayCoOnt, ls.3d. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wan Nan’s Engine Driver’s.Quide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paul.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Com pare-..my prices with others and
save you*- cash. Established S 5 Year s .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER) OR,
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY. 1
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King. '
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Yest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.-
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads!
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Eleotric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, clot!,
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Champion Athletes
all train with
DR. SHELDON’S MAGNETIC LINIMENT
Jimmie Fitzgerald, World’s Undefeated 15-flile
flarathon Champion, strongly recommends it.
Strenuous training is necessary to success in all forms of sport ; especially is it so
in Marathon racing. Athletes all know the value of a reliable rub-down for use in
is
the course of such preparation, and Mr. Jimmie Fitz-
gerald, the World’s undefeated J5-mile Marathon cham-
pion, tells in the following letter how he found Dr.
Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment an unequalled embroca-
tion for this purpose. He writes as follows :
“ I have used your famous Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment in the course of my training
for several of my Marathon contests, and I
find it most beneficial both as a remedy for
removing all stiffness and for giving new life
to the muscles wherever applied. I have found
a marked improvement in my performance since
training with this remarkable embrocation. All
athletes cannot do better than give Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment a trial.”
/II athletes will find Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment
of the greatest use in the training room. As a rub-down
for strains, soreness and tired muscles it is unsurpassed,
quickly removing all stiffness resulting from over-exertion.
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment is totally different from
any other Liniment on the market, and contains rare
products not previously employed in like preparations. It
will penetrate to your very bones, soothe, soften and
subdue all aches and pains. It is an antiseptic and
germicide of the highest order. It is obtainable from all Chemists and Stores at
is. 6d. and 35., or will be sent free upon receipt of the price by the Sheldon Drug
Co., Ltd., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
s/ie/e/m's
Noth jag can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
a. * a. 3002
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on
Face-plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills ®. Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning °f » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise... from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOW AY’S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from ail Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Brethren.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
£ 9 HERE the Son of Mary, He,
/ Born to lie upon the Tree
t Here, of God’s almighty plan,
Man-child of the courtesan.
Take the tale, and turn and pray.
Their four souls shall meet one day.
Breath of God that came to her, Mary mother,
waiting—
Stem of Sharon (blessed Maid !) —and watching
for the sign,
All her sweet virginity an hungered for the
mating ;
God, the eternal, Uncreate, and she of David s
line.
Wonderment of all the world till the world be
ended—
Blessedness beyond all thought and hope and
touch of death—
With the golden tale to tell, with his message
splendid,
Gabriel, my Gabriel, comes up to Nazareth.
God the Uncreate hath said,
Blest her bosom with His breath ;
Lay for He in the mothering bed —
Jcshua of Nazareth.
Swinging down the alley way, swart and over-
bearing,
On his cheeks the tan of brine, on his soul his
scars—
None shall stay the Viking-son on the quest forth
faring,
None the feet that come to him beneath the
passioned stars.
Who but One may know, and call unto them in
His chiding ?
Who but He can see, and all His righteous
wrath delay ?
Mary (whom all nations bless), here is no love
abiding,
Yet since thou a mother wert, turn not thy face
away !
Viking-son hath turned his face
To the sea-born eastern moon.
Lay for her the mothering-place
Who shall bear a son so soon.
Mary whom all nations sing for her sacred burden,
Felt the stealing pang, and cried her praise
unto the sky.
Her 6, to light her barren years, here was hallowed
guerdon ;
Such a son, Who such a mighty death of
deaths could die !
Yet, through Still) Judean nights, in her happy
sorrow
Lo ! The pallid Pilate’s face—the shadow of a
Tree !
And : “ To-day they crown Him ; but to-morrow ?
Ah, to-morrow.”,. . . -
She cried, “ And yon, yon awful road that
climbs to Calvary ! ”
Gabriel has kist her face !
All her bosom travailpth.
Lay for Him the mothering-place —
Jeshua of Nazareth.
jutward on the clanging seas Viking-heart is
heading.
Magdalen in attic room mourns in sad estate.
Through the lonely, livelong night no white feet
steal treading,
No fair flowers of hope upstart to soothe her,
desolate.
But when all the world is still, and the dreams
come winging,
In the glass she sees him go—her son, her
mother-dower —
Reckless down the gathering years, fighting,
scarred and singing,
Born to strive for better gain, to die in one
stark hour.
Christ, take heed of all that err —■
Souls of maids—forgive and bless.
Who shall lay the bed for her ;
Magdalen, in her gricvousness’l
hi the white Judean hills what a night is shining !
What a quiet marvellous lies round the listening
earth!
ling the Hope of All the World, past all men’s
divining.
Sing the Child of Bethlehem and all His
wondrous birth !
Mid the stars a thousand wings beat and sweep
and hover,
A thousand bells are calling, faint, with
entranced breath.
Mary in her sweet despite searches to discover
By her side the Smiling Boy, the Christ of
Nazareth.
Softly tread the lowly byre
That the feet of beasts have prest.
Lo, the world's Supreme Desire
D reams against Madonna's breast.
Pale-browed in the unhallowed dust by no taper
litten,
Sick at heart and desolate a too-fond lover lies.
Here no rush of angel wings, no watcher wonder-
smitten,
But a wraith of Youth suspent with tender
grieving eyes.
In the dark a little cry (Youth fades, dying
faintly).
Through the echoing darkness the bells of mid-
night clang.
Who comes slowly stepping, a shining form and
saintly,
To kiss the burning brow, and soothe with love
the latest pang ?
When the hearts of women break.
When the scornful world goes by,
Jeshua, for His Mother's sake,
He may heed the bitter cry.
Golden-bearded Nazarene who on Earth can save
You?
Who above it ? Creeping up and up the cruel
hill,
How the mockers threw their shame, how the
spearmen drave You !
See the crouching thunder-clouds—the Tree—
the Place of 111!
Hear the malefactors cry to the nails hard driven.
Hear for all the mouthing scorn the gentle
words He saith.
In the eye of God, the Lord, the one Son’s Soul is
riven, > .
And life is life for hope to hold and death is no
more death !
Oh, a father’s son is he, the boaster little caring,
Shouting down his little world reckless, un-
afraid,
Very dogs of men, they cry about him in his
faring,
With such shame upon his hands and on his
quarrelling blade.
So . . . and so ... a hideous Tree, doomful, rises
straightway. ...
So . . . the wolf is in the toils for all unbared
teeth.
Someone lend that woman out crying in the gateway
dire the thunderbolt roars down and Hell yawns
underneath.
Here, the Son of Mary, He,
Born to lie upon the Tree.
Here , of God's almighty plan,
Man-Child of the courtesan.
’Take the tale, and turn and pray
Their four souls shall meet one day.
MAORIbANI).
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
The Napoleonic System of
Defence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EULALIE JERVOIS was small, pretty
and perpetually exuding sunshine. It
glowed from her tawny hair, it shimmered
delightfully in the depths of her red-gold eyes, and
literally shone in her small, round arms and plump,
delicious throat.
Jervois, being a man of considerable experience
in that direction, and possessed of considerable
discernment, appreciated his wife. He knew he
was lucky, for this woman possessed the invaluable
charm of taking him away from himself and mun-
dane things. Being a journalist, he saw but
little of her, speaking comparatively, and the fact
sharpened his. appreciation of her. And, although
they had been married four years, so subtle was
her charm still that a few hours spent in her com-
pany seemed to him like a long holiday in sun-
light and fresh sea-breeze. And when a man can
feel that way in his wife’s company after four
years of it—then, indeed, he is rich beyond the
dreams of avarice, and even kings might envy
him.
* * * *
Their few friends assured Mrs. Jervois that she
led a lonely life. But she always denied it, ex-
plaining that she had her baby son, her terrier,
her canary, and sometimes her husband. At
least he always came home to supper, and the odd
times she filled in with books and a camera. And
when he came home the rush of No. 3 feet, the
glint of a purple wrapper, and the glory of the
lovely face lifted to his own, swept Ingram Jer-
vois into the ( w,orld iif romance—the faeryland
where it is always afternoon.
**# . *
It was a time of marital upheaval. The air was
full of sighings after lost happiness, and recrim-
inations as to which of the dismembered couples
had thrown it away ; and even in the little circle
in which the Jervois family moved there had been
one divorce and two separations. For these
things come in epidemic form, like other diseases,
and their frequency was the talk of the hour.
Among her friends Mrs. Jervois would shrug
her dainty shoulders, and remark brightly that
she had no sympathy with the wife who could not
hold her husband against the world.
“Doesn’t it apply with equal force to the roan
who cannot hold his wife against the world ? ” in-
quired Mrs. Todhunter, who was vaguely suspected
of having a little rift in her own domestic lute.
“ No, not at all ! ” Mrs. Jervois replied with an
emphatic shake of her tawny head. “A man has
his way to make. He has to provide for the pre-
sent and build for the future. And if he is a
worker, like my boy, he hasn’t really got the time
to play the gallant to either his own or anybody
else’s wife. When a man lays his life at a
woman’s feet and devotes himself to hard labor
for life to provide her with a home and something
in the event of his being cut off—well, I think he
has a right to expect at least loyalty in return.”
“For a woman of your complexion, your senti-
ments are most remarkable,” said Mrs. Tod-
hunter, bitterly.
“And I am sure your husband must appreciate
them very, very much indeed,” laughed Mrs.
Mallard.
“He ought to, if he doesn’t,” snapped Mrs,
Martin. “But it’s all fiddlesticks. They don’t
work so precious hard, and what’s sauce for the
goose is sauce for the gander, to my way of think-
ing. All the same, I wish I could believe in men
as Mrs. Jervois does—l’d be happier.”
“Of course you would ; and you could, if you
tried ! ” laughed Mrs. Jervois.
* * * *
It was Saturday morning, and Eulalie was
looking forward to the extra hour her husband
usually spent over dinner at week ends. Before
baby arrived she had been in the habit of accom-
panying him to football, or whatever he bad to
write up; but since the appearance of Master
Jervois over the horizon of their lives the after-
noon excursion had become inconvenient; and
she had contented herself with the extra hour at
dinner. And this morning, as he was hurrying
out, he had remarked that it would be necessary
to have dinner promptly, as he had to be back by
2.30 sharp. ,
“What a shame ! I was looking forward to
having a whole extra hour with you. All right,
dearie; I’ll be ready to the tick of time.”
And he had sprinted away, making some
remark sho did not catch as he fled down the
steps. She went back to her household duties,
and in the bedroom picked up an envelope. Won-
dering if it was anything she ought to take down
to him, she opened it and drew out three papers.
Two of them referred to the morning’s work.
The third was a note that absolutely took
Eulalie’s breath away. It was on scented paper
and written in a big, round feminine hand :
My dear old boy—
I am wondering if you really intend to meet me at all.
Two Saturdays running you have now disappointed me.
Times have changed indeed. Once, wild horses would
not have kept you away, but now, horrible to admit, I
have actually to beg of you to come. Please do not disap-
point me again. Although you have ceased to care for
me, I still crave for your society ; and I shall be really
hurt if you disappoint me again. I shall be at the Wish-
ing Tree in the Gardens at exactly quarter to three, and
will wait till you come. Now, I think I have abased my-
self quite sufficiently—even to you. Yours ever,
Bud.
“ The brazen pirate ! ” gasped Eulalie, sitting
down with a somewhat dazed feeling. “Now
(Continued on next page.)


ORKERS’ ACCIDENTS
fo.
KEEP ZflM ■ BUK ALWAYS HANDY FOR BRUISES,
CUTS, OPEN, FESTERING & POISONED WOUNbS.ctc.
CARPENTERS, bricklayers, mechanics, miners, gar=
deners, painters, laborers—in fact, all classes of
workers—stand in daily need of Zam-Buk’s sooth-
ing and healing aid. A cut, bruise, knock or pinch
may not seem of much account when the first pain
has passed away, but unless the injured place is
dressed with Zam-Buk there remains the great
danger that dirt and disease germs will get into the
wound and set up inflammation, festering, blood-
poison or skin disease, that may mean
months of suffering and compulsory idle-
ness. The germ of the dreaded lockjaw
harbors in dirt, and thus the simplest
injury often has fatal results. If, how-
ever, Zam-Buk is at once smeared over a
cut or bruise, the balm’s pure herbal
juices soothe the pain, fortify the injury
against germ attacks, and ensure rapid
and perfect healing. As an insurance
against festering and poisoned wounds,
eczema and ulcers, Zam-Buk is the
workers’ best friend. A pot of this
powerful germicide and healer should
always be kept handy in cupboard, tool-
bag or pocket.
SCALDS AND BURNS.
“ As I am a cook by profession,” says
Mr. S. Balcombe, of Holloway Road,
Mitcheltown, Wellington, N.Z., “and
constantly engaged over a fire, I am
very liable to receive burns and scalds.
A few days ago I had the misfortune to
have my hand and wrist scalded with
boiling fat. Having Zam-Buk by me I
at once applied the balm. The heat and
inflammation were at once banished, and
the wounds were soothed. Before night
nearly all traces of the scalds had dis-
appeared. I have always used Zam-Buk
for cuts and sores, and have no hesitation
in pronouncing it a first-class prepara-
tion, which I, for one, will never be
without.”
A GOACHBUILDER’S INJURIES.
“ While following my occupation,”
savs ISI r. T. Mansell, a coachbuilder, of
Keig Street, Newtown, Sydney, “lam
constantly knocking the skin off my
hands and cutting my fingers. These
wounds fester and take some consider-
able time to heal, although all sorts of
household remedies have been tried.
Seeing Zarn-Buk advertised, I procured
a pot. and am pleased to say that in
Zam-Buk I found just the balm I
required. Its healing action was prompt,
and where it was applied no festering
followed. I strongly recommend Zam-
Buk_ as an invaluable healing and anti-
septic balm.”
hm-Buk
£tVL!N6 • SOOTHfN(J • ANT ISEPjIc
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The questions of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your sßin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe sKin generally- you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe sßin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been maKing beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years*
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion
what on earth is n man to do when an old sweet-
heart throws herself at him in this shocking
manner? Meet her, I supfiose, just out of sheer
Pity. Will he though ! I’ll see about that.”
Then, after a few minutes thought, she folded
tip the papers and replaced them in the exact
order she had found them. Dashing into a hat
and jacket, she slipped the envelope into her bag
and went for the baby with his pelisse in her
hand.
'* Walkee, walkee, son ! ” she chortled, shaking
the garment at him. “No, Towser, we’re going
on the tram, so you stay at home and look after
Ermyntrude.”
The maid’s name was really Sarah Jones, but
She was called Ermyntrude for the sake of
romance.
As she entered the office she met her husband
coming He went pale. A horrible idea that
Bud Leston’s letter had dropped out of his pocket
flashed through his mind, and here was Eulalie,
to “ play up,” of course.
“Take babe, dear!” she gasped. “He’s as
] > e *vy as a bag of gold, and 10 times more precious.
Oh, I was afraid I’d miss you.”
“What on earth’s up, dear?” he inquired,
anxiously, as he took the baby and kept his head
between his guilty face and ins wife’s eyes.
° Nothing, nmv I have caught you. I was
afraid you’d lie put to all sorts of inconvenience.
You dropped some of your old papers, and I
thought the) - might refer to the day’s work, and
rushed after you. Here they are. Now T’ll go.
Carry babe to the tram for me, like a dear. Isn’t
it lovely out this morning : We had such a nice
run in.”
He stuffed the accursed papers into his pocket.
She prattled on, telling him how the freshness of
the morning had made her decide to take babe
out earlier. And, as she laughed and talked, in
•Tervois’s heart there flashed up a great glad feeling
that she had not looked insidetheenvelope. By the
time they had reached the tram stopping-place he
had recovered himself and handed her in and
placed the baby in her arms, without the slightest
sign of discomposure.
ihanks, Eulalie, for bringing the papers in—
there was something T should have quite forgotten
out for your careful thought. I’ll be home right
to time.”
As the tram moved off she cast on him a look of
melting tenderness.
What an amazing ass a man is to go wasting
time among thistles on the roadside when he has
roses in his own garden,” muttered Jervois to
himself as he turned down a side street. “Still,
l suppose I had better meet Bud as I pro-
mised. Confound her, why can’t she get married
or raise a. walking-stick or a poodle, or something.
Hanged if I’m going to be her tame cat.”
* * + *
It was striking one when Jervois entered his
dining-room and found his wife in a pale-blue
wrapper and with violets in her hair. As he sat
down she bounced on to his knee.
“ Babe is asleep, and you’re early. So I’ve got
a whole 10 minutes to myself. What is the world
doing? Ive not had time to glance at the paper
71 n over do when you are coming home for
dinner. I prefer to hear it all from you.”
He talked of the morning’s doings, and the
minutes slipped away. Suddenly she remembered.
“My dear, it’s nearly half-past one ! Whaiever
is that girl doing with the dinner, and you pressed
for time, too ! ”
Then she vanished, returning in a few minutes
with a bottle of chablis and followed by Ermyn-
trude with the dinner.
“You haven’t been eating too well of late,
so I thought this might stimulate your appe-
tite. I had a slice of luck this morning—got
three Jerusalem artichokes. Remember how you
told me about your mother’s artichoke soup. I’ve
made some.”
* * * *
Ihe dinner was delicious, the wine was good,
and Eulalie positively glowed. And as he looked
at her across the table, between the sprigs of wall-
flower in the little vase, Bud Boston’s picture in
his mind was a sordid, commonplace thing in drab.
Ibe mingled odor of wall-flower and violets—the
charm of the dainty room, and the glowing woman
opposite him were all so appealing, he felt he
could not keep that appointment. And then the
little marble clock on the mantel chimed two.
She rose hurriedly, and came round to him.
My dear, it is two o’clock. Finish your
dinner and go, or you’ll be late.”
“I’m not going till three, Eulalie ! ”
“ Oh, I’m glad, Ingram ; but do not let me
interfere with your work—l want to help you
with that as far as lies in my power, you know.”
* I know you do—but I am not going till
three.”
“Well, I’ll go back to my dinner—l’ve a dread-
ful appetite. I think it must be the wine ; and if
I m not to lose you right away I’ll sit down again
and have a real banquet, a—a beano, isn’t it?”
He laughed. Bud’s chances were fading right
out.
There was a patter of small feet, and a baby
boy toddled in and regarded them with solemn
brown eyes. Then he ran to his father, and
rubbed his little dark head against the paternal
knee.
Jervois got down on the carpet and gambolled
with his little son. He heard the quarters chim-
ing every few minutes, and then it struck three.
Eulalie breathed a sigh.
“My hour of happiness is over, Ingram. It is
three o’clock ; and you simply must put on a clean
collar and cuffs. You’re all crumpled up.”
“I’m not going till four!” sad Jervois, sud-
denly.
“ No, dear, you must not let me keep you from
your business. I hate to see you go, but I’m not
going to be a millstone round your neck. I know
you;aye just negjpdting your woijc to make me
happy, and lam not going to let you do it. I’ll
get the linen.”
So Ingram arose; but the baby was voracious
for fun, and tried to pull him back to the carpet.
His mother drew him away, and at first the little
boy scolded and then roared.
“ He’s like his mother, dear—doesn’t get enough
of you,” she said softly, as she took the boy in her
arms and tried to comfort him.
* * * *
It was nearly four o’clock when Jervois reached
the Wishing Tree, his heart full of resentment
against this thistle girl who had dragged him
away.
Bud greeted him with a delightful smile. He
nodded curtly. In his mind he was making
odious comparisons. How scraggy her neck was,
compared to Eulalie’s. And those blue eyes—cold
and watery. Give him golden eyes, with the red
light of the opal flashing in their depths. Sunset
lights in the topaz ! She saw the critical look in
his eye, and knew it.
“You wicked man! I’ve been waiting ever
since half-past two ! Are you going to take me
to dinner ?”
Her hair was dull and colorless compared to
Eulalie’s tawny locks.
“No. And look here, Bud. This is just
tommyrot. What’s the good of you hanging
round obscure spots waiting for me. I haven’t
time to love two women—and that’s the plain
truth of it. And, besides, it’s not fair to you.”
She lifted her blue eyes to him with a pitiful
expression on her full red lips.
“No man is worth any girl throwing herself
away on. Where’s it going to end ? ”
“What on earth has happened ? ” she asked,
realising that something had brought home to
him the otter foolishness of it all from a worldly
point of View.
“Well, 1 had a mighty narrow escape this
morning. And I want you to see things in a right
light—for your own sake.”
“ What was the narrow escape?”
“ Your letter fell out of my pocket, and after I
had left home Mrs. Jervois found it. Fortunately
she is the soul of honor, and never looked at it,
but thinking it was something to do with my
day's engagements, brought it down to me hot-
foot. Brought her little son with her to help to
bring me a letter asking me to meet another
woman. I felt an unutterable skunk.”
“And hated me for making you a skunk, I
suppose ? ”
“ Well, I didn’t feel too good towards you.
But 1 thought it all over. When I went home,
she was trusting and beautiful as ever, and kept
hurrying me away to my business—and my busi-
ness was an appointment with another woman.
It s beastly treachery, that’s what it is. And it
isn't fair to you eitner. I’ve got sisters of
my ”
“Stop it,’’'shouted Bud. “I can stand any-
thing but being preached at. You like her best
and try to hide the fact with Sunday-school plati-
tudes. If I was your wife, and your wife was
Bud, you wouldn’t have a platitude about you.
Go home, by all means.”
“ I will, after 1 have put you on a tram.”
I can find my own way to the tram—your
wife might meet us.”
“ My wife is not a spy ! ” he said indignantly.
“ Perhaps, and perhaps not. Tell her from me
sfie is a clever woman.”
I won’t. But all the same she is clever.”
'Yes, she knows how to manage you!”
laughed Bud, bitterly, as she turned and walked
towards a gate.
He went in an opposite direction. Suddenly
he heard the sound of running feet, and stopped."
Breathlessly she stood in front of him.
“I just want to say this: If you think your
wife didn’t read that letter you're a fool. She
read every word of it, and I’ll bet she played her
cards very prettily when you went home at dinner
time. That’s what kept you so late. She played
for time, hoping I would be gone. And I wish to
goodness I had. I may not be so attractive as
Mrs. Jervois, but at least I’m as worldly-wise.”
Then she paused and caught her breath some
more.
“ Is that all ? ”,
“Yes! Good-bye, Ingram—let us part friends.
After all, it is so rare a tiling to find a man who,
after four years of married life, is still in love with
his wife arid wants to be loyal to her, that it
would be a crime to smash up anything so beauti-
ful. I haven’t the heart to do it, and will tempt
you no more. Will you kiss me good-bye? ’’
“ No, I’m hanged if I will ! ”
Anil, with a shriek of laughter, Bud Leston
turned and vanished beyond the Wishing Tree.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Concerning a Jew’s Gold.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
were humming up at Hook’s
Greek. Every foot of ground within
the slightest hopeful proximity to the
lead was pegged out. We arrived rather
late and sat on a patch of absoblankylutely the
must unlikely-looking surface imaginable, and
situated on the extreme top of the hill. We had a
fine ironstone outcrop to console us. Eventually,
Possum Mac, who possessed more business instinct
and a shade less conscience than I, introduced
Fatty Marks into the firm. Fatty was the only
simple Jew I ever encountered. He was a city
man who had come to Hook’s Greek for his
health’s sake, and boarded with a cocky about six
miles away. He was also very sanguine, and
bought in to the extent of £8 without a murmur.
But it had to come. Pottering about the claims
all day, he acquired a certain amount of rudimen-
tary wisdom, and at last indicated that he was
beginning to see things, and asked many questions.
However, he didn’t curse and -jump and child-
ishly threaten to appeal to the warden. Not he.
He took it like a sport. He merely told us we
were inflamed rogues ; then taking us into the
tent, poured his beautiful scheme into our blush-
ing ears, in all its crudity and wickedness. It
was an ancient idea, but still known to prove
successful.
During the next few days Fatty augmented the
postal revenue with many telegrams between him-
self and some Melbourne friends. At last the
sale was fixed at £3OO, with one-third interest to
vendors, etc. In the meantime, with due regard
for the average intelligence of the investing
public, we had transferred our industry to an
almost abandoned claim (acquired for the sum of
Bs. 6d., tools thrown in), and situated within a
more hopeful distance of the lead.
One day there arrived two bulky gentlemen in
a buggy. They were Fatty's Melbourne fr ends,
and seemed very pleased to meet us. We also
were very- amiable and obliging, and spent the
remainder of the morning taking dishes from
various parts of our claim with most pleasing re-
sults. The Melbourne gents were delighted. So
were we ; but, out of delicacy, contrived to hide
our emotions.
Anyhow, there we crouched in our tent, all five
gloating and feasting our eyes on 2|oz. of the
cleanest and brightest gold ever filched from
Mother Earth. But Fatty didn’t seem as pleased
as he might have been ; something seemed to
bother him.
The two Melbourne gents at last rose to depart,
full of joyous volubility, and stood shaking my
paw with violent fervor. Possum stood in the
background, and I noticed him hand the precious
2ioz. to Fatty. Now, Fatty might have been
simple; yet, he was a Jew— and probably
couldn’t help himself. Anyhow, the distressed
expression on his unlovely countenance changed
to one of keen anguish as he spoke ; and an icy
hand stole down my spine, leaving my legs a-
sbi vering :
“Mein Gott, Possum! ’he whined in tense,
audible tones; “ but dere’S andthdr haff-ounz
somvere, aind der?”
The two fat men abruptly left me and turned
with a wild, questioning stare. . . . Possum and
I humbly withdrew, and, shouldering our swags,
which, strangely but happily, lay ready outside,
suddenly decided to hurry Northwards after a
harvesting job.
Possum always was a far-seeing chap and pre-
pared for an emergency.
DUNNO.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The
with
Accordeon
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
imei.t, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/* post free.
ic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
•8ao t »»0 *»S 8-912 “PH ’I%.A “00 J 3 NVIIV »!<>S
•aaaa xsoa anDoavxvo aaxvHxsnm— saoiad nv- saaaon h3hxo
DR. J. COLLIS BROV
The Original and
Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
m, 2/9 & 4/6
tf/ticrcdf'*
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
mm
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
D/A RRHOEA , and is the only
i
m CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Dinmeford's
Magnesia
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tation s purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford & Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of'the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
'Circular
Pens.
Seven
Pri *o Medals,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt, t hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Biotting Senes.
Works s Birmingham, England,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
•vioivaniN
‘oovawm ‘voij-vios
‘lAisiivtAinßHa ‘moo
•Aaawaa hsiions ivaao
• 9
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/ij & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
mm
FiViliMfilM'it
ERIMAUIfIi INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Conghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved hy GRIMATJLT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ISTTES. Fo'd bv all Cbrinists.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
I/-EACH POST FREEj/S
I Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
'MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'STOREKEEPERS& TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
£55
0 P
Bfig
Borated Golden seal
Compound
'A safe and simple remedy for’
Bronchitis, Cafarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Wky not cure yourself
Treatise tt-I th jach bottle
f ox mailed on request.
The Enits Chemical Co.
CLicinaati, Oku,
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
A. tralian. That’s Thk Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
EAT WHAT YOU FANCY
r
' :
m
NO FEAR OF INDIGESTION
IF YOU TAKE
BEECHAMS PILLS
CARBIDE.
For First*ciass Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing: it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia. •
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
\
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
in use since 1596.
tea
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the bsok is free—or writ ;
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Load, London, Em.
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A-V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 MCKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
' Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name IW


Rubber Goods for Mines
We want mine managers to
know that they can rely upon
getting the best of rubber
goods from us at reasonable
prices.
We specialise in Sheet
Rubber, Insertion, Hose,
Tubings, Buffers, Engine
Packings, Asbestos, and
other Rubber and allied
goods. We are also agents for
the “ Titan ’’ Leather Belting.
Write for • oopy of our No. 13 Catalogue.
PERDRIAU RUBBER COLTD.,
"Th® Beet House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
p
V
Willans & Robinson, Limited,
For . . .
Electrical Generators,
Blowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
\fl^
For. ..
High Pressure
and
Mixed Pressure Steam.
AUi AGENCY P : T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.,.,
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
Tltt ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADfc.
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet prodneed
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole
Importers:
James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
The bulletin post cards-Nsw
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d:
Packet of Ten. sd.
CRUTCHING MADE EASY
THE
WITH
HAND-POWER MACHINES.
VARIOUS MODELS.
B.n< at «ca for C*alo*
es and Prices to—
LTD
SOLE AGENTS,
Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland; also for TANGYE’S and CLAYTON and
SHUTTLE WORTH MACHINERY.
Tangyes OH Engine.
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
ENGINES FOR THE FARM 8 STATION
T - 1 "" , ri,, v """'-""i 1
■
TANGYES Oil Engine —Works on Ordinary Kerosene,
Very simple to operate—Thoroughly Reliable.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH Portable
Steam Engine— Superior in every detail to any
other Engine of its class—Very popular for Sawmilling.
Blake’s Improved Steam
and Belt-Driven Pumps
for Every Possible Service,
■ V;
Boiler Feed, Tank or Light Service,
Mining, Horizontal and Vertical.
Hydraulic Pressure, Combined Air
and Circulating Pumps, Single
and Duplex.
p.
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
HIGH PRICED quality
LOW PRICED CAR
Model "T" Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p,, S-paaeonger, £270 (full e
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Coat (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT, B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd „
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
7 Pirie Street,
PERTH.
ADELAIDE.
and Contractors
DRINK
Vi
i
■
■ ■
263 George Street, Sydney;
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
n-v
■;
StX-COMPA R TMEN T JIG.
