

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
'
b > ff ■ ■ an
Ml
It. <3r. 'W.A.'aPIS.XWrS «S£ 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— , .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
Machine Tools,
Lathes, Planers, Shapers,
Drills, etc.,
By the World’s Best Makers.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
HOBA.RX.
3SR>
fiadley’s Orient Ijotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
" Take it back.
I must have—
HUTTON* S
Pine-Apple Brand
•JJI
CHUBB'S NEW BOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
h
L
U
ĥ
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
3
279 George Street Sydney .
J?
V A
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERYWAY.
ĥ
No matter how hard the ram falls it cannot penetrate
Malthoid.
Malthoid has for its base a mineral that is tOO per cent*
pure and absolutely waterproof* Wherever Malthoid is laid
in accordance with the simple printed directions, there you
will find a roof that is free from all troubles incidental to
other poor imitations.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER
THORNE’S
ħ
WHISKY
ACE AND PURITY
GUARANTEED
HELIDON SPA WATER
The Helidon Spa Water Co«, in its extensive distribution, has
placed “ the rational water cure ” within reach of all.
T 8 HALIORAN, Ltd..
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 32.—N0. 1647.]
[Thursday, September 7, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS ON WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY
AND WIRELESS TELEPHONY.
These Books are Recommended by Electric Telegraph Department.
Fleming, J. A.: Elementary Manual of Radio, Telegraphy I Erskine, Murray, J.: Wireless Telegraphy its Theory
for Students and Operators, 95., posted 9s. 6d. | and Practice, revised and enlarged, 12 s.’6d., p. 13s/
Poincaire and Viceland : Theory and Principles of Wireless Telegraphy, 12s. 6d v posted 13s.
The Latest and Most Exhaustive Treatise on this Subject.
Fleming, c/. : Principles of Electric Wave Telegraphy ana Telephony, Second Edition,
Revised and Enlarged, 345., posted 355.
Readers interested in this subject will be informed of new books if desired.
Send for Full List of Books bn this Subject.
ROBERTSON'S, Booksellers 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be ol
special service
to L e c t u r e r s,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon ged
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
ĥ
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung:.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I 9 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
The Long Roll —Mary Johnston (Constable).
A much solider novel than By Order of
the Company, or The Old Dominion, be-
ing closer to fact and more crammed
■avith characters. In the centre of many
interesting figures is Stonewall Jackson,
and one follows the Civil War from the
Southerner’s point of view—not breath-
lessly, but with much appreciation of the
pains taken by the writer.
The Story Girl —L. M. Montgomery (Geo.
Robertsorj and Co.). “The Story Girl”
invents for her companions little alle-
gories and fairy tales, some of which are
very neat. The sentiment and humor in
this book, as in Anne of Green Gables,
will delight any girl under ninety.
Her Husband’s Country —Sybil Spottiswood
(Heinemann). Like Dividing Waters,
this is a tale of an English girl who
married a.German soldier, and was un-
happy.. The Germans are not presented
in a favorable light, but Germany ap-
pears to be the husband’s country. The
story is worth reading.
The Ship of Coral —-H. de V. Stacpoole
(Dymock’s). “A tropical romance,”
with more adventure in it than The
Blue Lagoon —of which, by the way, a
shilling reprint has been issued. The
two men on the island, and Captain
Sagesse, of “La Belle Arlesienne,” are
variants of stock characters; yet the
yarn is told in a fresh and attractive
manner.
The R.A. Exhibition
Regular visitors to the exhibitions of the
Royal Art Society of N.S.W. will notice an
improvement in this year’s Show. The
society has adopted the plan of grouping
each painter’s work separately. By this
means the goodness of the good is rendered
more apparent, while the badness of the bad
shrieks so that the spectator passes on hur-
riedly. The number of the absolutely bad
canvases is less than usual. Rumor says
that some members of the Selection Commit-
tee were amongst the totally rejected. It
was understood at one time that to be on
the selection committee meant that a good
swag of your own stuff would be accepted,
likewise a proportion 'of your pupils’ elegant
views of Pinchgut and portraits of grand-
mother. If that time is past, there is hope
of progress. Evidently the old society is
bucking up, and if it gets some more vigor-
ous new blood into its body, it may get out
of the ruts and push ahead.
The dominant note of the R.A.S. in the
past has been Stodge. It has stood royally
for the Tame and the Respectable. A col-
lection of men who were supposed to be
artists by the grace of God went to the
trouble of getting themselves labelled
“Royal,” while they allowed square rods of
tripe to cover their walls. It was Very unexcit-
ing tripe, for propriety and conventionality
seemed to be the first considerations of the
painters. In the present show there is not
even a bare leg to flurry Mrs. Wowser.
Clothes are treated with the deference due
to their high respectability. The macintosh
in one and the scarf in another of Miss
W. Lister Lister.
Chapman’s pictures, the dresses on J. S'.
Watkins’ ladies, and some other softgoods
exhibited could be pawned at any Mont-de-
Piet6. It is, of course, better to have a
simple thing cleverly painted such as Miss
MacPherson’s bowl of eggs than a “demmed
unpleasant body”; but the absence of the
nude is an evidence of low technical aim.
One misses, also, any attempt to get the
richness and intensity of color which is
prodigally displayed in our bush scenery.
Most of the landscapes are tame, and help
to support the foreign theory that Australia
is a monotonous country. It would be a
good thing for the society to have an orgy of
vermilion, or break into a riot of Prus-
sian blue for ‘a change. Datillo Rubbo’s gaso-
meter is welcome as a splash of color, and
J. R. Jackson’s “The Sunday Afternoon
Nan” is commendable as a move in the Im-
pressionist direction.
Hans ITeysen has posed all his bush
scenes according to one formula; but the
Norman Carter.
A. Dattilo, Rubbo.
J. S. Watkins.
painting is so jolly good that the subject
ceases to be important. J. Salvana’s real-
ism gives the timber and the earth; while
Heysen seems to get the soul of the place as
well. Norman Garter’s sofa is an agree-
able harmony in low tones, keyed up by
throwing a black cat into the middle. The
clean, deft strokes of Longstaff’s portrait
make some of the other heads look sick.
There are a few other exhibits which help
to justify the society’s existence, and show
that there is enough talent there to keep the
craft afloat.
It is only fair to judge the bulk of the ex-
hibits as one does minor verse. There are
no Shakespeares or Titians in Australia yet; i
but there are a good many capable crafts-
men who have with little encouragement
done creditable work. Some of them go
away to bigger art centres, and are put
in a high place there; but in nearly every
case their merit has been discerned before
they left. What little encouragement there
is given to art in a practical country like
this should be concentrated upon the men
who are worth while, and an art society is
expected to help in that direction by rigor-
ously repressing the duffers. An untrained
observer can see with the naked eye that
the proper medium of some of the exhibitors
is mud.
The motonony of subject and tameness of
treatment are mainly due to the subordina-
tion of art to material considerations. The
artist says he must live though the callous
may fail to see the necessity. The only pic-
tures which the average painter can sell are
the dinky little land- or sea-scapes which run
up to five guineas. Teaching is his main-
stay, and the class ties him to the town;
therefore we rarely get any paintings of
characteristic Australian scenes such as
Lambert’s “Across the Blacksoil Plains,”
Roberts’ “Golden Fleece,” or Officer’s views
of outback country.
This, perhaps, is inevitable in a young
country where art has not been taken seri-
ously. There are signs of a more enlight-
ened public interest in painting, and of a
recognition by the Government that local art
deserves consideration with other native in-
dustries. The R.A.S. should do its best to
foster these promising developments by
raising the general average, and if it cannot
get away from the false gods of Respecta-
bility, it can at least encourage its pupils to
nourish their color sense and break away
from the trite in safe directions.
Ezra Pound
One of the strangest figures amongst the
poets of the day is Ezra Pound, whose
Personae and Exultations were reviewed
here on the 24/2/TO. It is believed that he
is of mixed blood, was born in America, and
educated in England. Pie is well acquainted
with Italian and Provencal literature, and
his lectures on The Spirit of Romance were
a curious mixture of learning and preten-
tiousness. He worked on the good principle
that “Art is a joyous thing,” and made a
plea for greater levity, a more befitting
levity, in the study of the arts. His defini-
tion of poetry is worth quoting.
Poetry is a sort of inspired mathematics,
which gives us equations, not for abstract
figures, triangles, spheres and the like, but
equations for human emotions. If one have
a mind which inclines to magic rather than
to science, one will prefer to speak of these
equations as spells or incantations. Speak-
ing generally, the spells or equations of
“classic” art invoke the beauty of the normal,
and spells of “romantic” art are said to in-
voke the beauty of the unusual.
The two little books of verse above men-
tioned contain a good deal that is spasmodic,
bizarre and disagreeable ; but also some un-
doubted poetry. So with his latest volume—
The Canzoni of Ezra Pound (Elkin
Mathews, 3s. 6d.).
His exercises in intricate forms such as
the canzone and sestina are interesting to
technicians, and tiresome to the ordinary
reader. There are some translations from
the French of Du Bellay, the German of
Heine, and the Italian of Leopardi and
others. The chief interest of the book is in
a number of explosions in verse, more force-
ful than elegant. The poems quoted here
are fairly representative, and the book con-
tains others which are worth the attention
of any student of poetry.
BONNET.
If on the tally-board of ivasted days
They daily write me for proud idleness,
Let high Hell summons me, and I confess, .
No overt act the preferred charge allays
To-day I thought—what boots it what I
thought?
Poppies and gold! Why should I blurt it
out ?
Or hawk the magic of her name about
Deaf doors and dungeons where no truth is
bought?
Who calls me idle? I have thought of her.
Who calls me idle? By Cod’s truth, I’ve
seen
’jl ne arrowy sunlight in her golden snares.
Let him among you all stand summonser
Who hath done better things! Let whoso
hath been
With worthier works concerned display his
wares !
L’ART.
When brightest colors seem but dull in hue,
And noblest arts are shown mechanical,
When study serves but to heap clue on clue
That no great line hath been or ever shall,
But hath a savor like some second stew
Of many pot-lots with a smack of all.
’Twas one man’s field, another’s hops the
brew,
’Twas vagrant accident not Fate’s fore-call.
Horace, that thing of thine is overhauled,
And “Wood Notes Wild” vveaves a concocted
sonnet.
Here aery Shelley on the text hath called,
And here, great Scott, the Murex Keats
comes on it,
And all the lot howl “Sweet Simplicity /”
’Tis Art to hide our theft exquisitely.
Recipe for a Landscape : Take [?] gum trunks, I
river and I sheep or cow, add clouds to suit palette s
and don’t stir.
AU SALON.
Her grave sweet haughtiness
Pleaseth me, and in likewise
Her quiet ironies
Others are beautiful, none more, some less.
I suppose when poetry comes down to facts,
When our souls are returned to the gods
and the,, spheres they belong in,
Here in the every-day where our acts
Rise up and judge us ;
I suppose there are a few dozen verities
That no shift of mood can shake from us;
One place where we’d rather have tea
(Thus far hath modernity brought us)
“Tea” (Damn you)
Have tea, damn the Caesars,
Talk of the latest success, give wing to some
scandal
Garble a name we detest, and for prejudice?
Bet loose consummate pack
to bay like Bir Roger de Coverley’s.
This our reward for our works,
sic crescit gloria mundi:
Bo'me circle of not more than three
that we prefer to play up to.,
Borne few whom we’d rather please
than hear the whole aegrum, vulgus
Splitting its beery jowl
a-meaotoUng our praises
Some certain peculiar things
cari laresque, penates,
Borne certain accustomed forms
the absolute unimportant.
“Man is as lazy as he dares to be,” accord-
ing to Emerson, and the Debating Society
young man is like the rest of the genus. If
anyone will supply him with a few rounds of
solid, shot when he goes into battle, he can
provide his own Greek fire and Chinese stink-
pots. E. A. Vidler has collected a store of
ammunition in The Australian Debater
(Geo. Robertson and Co., 2s. Od.), which
will serve if the fight is on any one of 27
questions. “Did Shakespeare write Bacon?”
and a few others are out of the old
stock; the majority are of immediate and
Australian interest. “A Subsidised National
Theatre” is a subject seldom treated in
books of this kind, apd the arguments on both
sides are given with considerable fulness.
Occasionally, the arguments are of the for-
titer in modo description, such as this one
for firing at the advocates of Woman’s
Equality with Man :- —
“Women who have taken to literary
work have generally devoted themselves to
the writing of temperance tracts or ob-
scene novels, the latter of which, at least,
have done much harm in vitiating the taste
of readers, though it is a fact that that
class of fiction is read only by women.”
* * * *
At the Sign of the Southern Cross, by
Annie MacDonald (Geo. Robertson and Co),
contains some simple verses which may ap-
peal to women, with “Unlucky Dick,”
“Youngster Jack,” “Gordon’s Leap” and
other pieces for recitation. The account of
Gordon’s famous jump at Mount Gambier,
based on the narrative of William Trainor,
who knew the poet, contains this statement:
I recall some fences Gordon built, three of
them fashioned of stockyard rails,
The highest of them was four foot six, sure
death if the horse or rider quails;
He called them Doubtful, Danger and Death;
I’ve taken the first one when he led.
But I watched him ,leap the other two, whilst
I rode round the rails instead.
There must have been something curious
about a mere 4ft. 6in. fence to deserve the
name of “Death.”
Collars and Cuffs, the Adventures of a
Jackeroo, by St. Clare Grondona (George
Robertson and Co., Is.), will do for new-
chums to send to the people at Home. C.
and C. is the great original Jackeroo by the
name of Smith, who walloped the burly and
insulting bushman to a standstill, vaulted
on to the unbroken colt and galloped the tail
off it, and performed other deeds of valor
with consummate ease. The natives were
astonished, and Red Davies, who suffered
from the gentleman’s biff, ever afterwards
fed out of his hand. Yes, let the tale go
home (with Saltbush Bill’s) “to the Public
Schools—of the pluck of the English swell,
how the drover fought for his very life, but
blood in the end will tell.”
After the Sho[?].
In a survey of the English novels pub-
lished in the year ending June last the Lon-
don Nation finds that the most significant
work is that of Wells, Galsworthy and
Belloc.
“For felicity of style and atmospheric deli-
cacy we hold that Miss Rosalind Murray’s
The Leading Note was by far the most in-
teresting performance of the year, and for
creative originality and psychological skill
Walter De La Mare’s The Return takes a
prominent place. Among newcomers the
two most promising are, perhaps, the author
of Martha Vine and D. H. Laurence, whose
country story, The White Peacock, is full of
beauty and charm. We are still extraor-
dinarily poor in interpreters of the life of
the working classes, and Stephen Reynolds’
Alongshore, Neil Lyons’ Sixpenny Pieces,
and W. 11. Davies’ A Weak Woman, all
most penetrating in their shrewd insight
into the workings of minds unsophisticated
by “education,” stand out in grateful relief
both in subject and treatment.”
The writer has a word or two for Arnold
Bennet’s faithfulness to the bourgeois ideal,
arid offers the opinion that the ordinary
novel is far too long, “too full of unnecessary
detail and undigested material,” and that
modern English fiction is suffering from a
superfluity of comfortable tissue and a cer-
tain indifference to spiritual issues.


u
For Guns, Rifles and all Sporting Requisites
try Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading 1 Gun,
“ The Emnire,” 12-prauge, Damascus Barrels, Choke
Bore, Bar Locks, Pistol Hand Stock £6 10s.
Hollis & Sons’ Special Pigeon Gan, 12-gauge, Damascus
Barrels, both Choke Bore, Greener Cross Bolt, Engine Turned
Rib, Hammers below line of sight, Chambered for 2f cases and
proved for all Nitro-Powders, Walnut Heart Stock, Pistol Grip,
neatly engraved .£lO 2s. 6d.
Scholefield’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Left Choke, Bar Rebounding
Locks, Plain Hand Stock £3 7s. 6d.
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading- Gun, 12-gauge, Twist
Barrels, Bar Locks, neatly finished ,£4. 12s. 6d.
The Liege Arms Co. Hammerless Guns, £4/18/=, £5/5/=
J. O. Mayne’s l2=Gauge Central Fire Double=Barrel Breech=
Loading Gun, Top Lever, Back Action Locks, Twist Barrels, Snap
Pore-end, Solid Strikers, Non-Reflecting Rib, Walnut Stock, 77/=
Hollis & Sons’ Double=Barre! Breech=loading Gun, Twist Barrels,
Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Walnut Stock, Left Barrel Choke Bore’
Half Pistol, Hand Stock, £5/5/=
Similar Gun, with Steel Barrels, £5/10/=
Hollis & Sons’ Sing'le-barrel Breech-loading* Gun, Twist Barrels, Back
Action Rebounding Lock «£4T4s.
Blocked Leather Leg -
o’ Mutton Grun Cover,
275.
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading G-un, Top Lever,
12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Back Action, Rebounding Locks, Snap
Fore-end, Solid Strikers, Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock, Hammers
below line of sight ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 775.
J. Q. Mayne’s Double-bai’rel Breech-loading Gun, Steel
Barrels, Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Half Pistol, Hand
Stock JE4 17s. 6d.
Hollis & Sons’ Hammerless Double-barrel Breech-loading- Gun,
Top Lever, Damascus Barrels, Left Barrel Choke, Engine Turned Rib,
Greener Cross Bolt, Automatic Safe, Neatly Finished Walnut
S to ck ,£ii 17s. 6d.
The illustrations of Guns on
this page are in every instance
drawn from photographs of
the actual weapon, while the
prices are
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
Write for Illustrated Price
List of Guns and Rifles,
posted free on application.
Scholefield’s 12-Gauge Double-barrel Hammerless Gun, B.S.A. Steel Barrels, Extended
Spring Fore-end, Safety Block, neatly Engraved, Left Barrel Choke, Nitro proved
W. W. Greener’s 12-Gauge Double-barrel Breech ■loading' Kanunerless Gun,
Extended Bib with Treble Bolt on Cross Bolt Principle, Pistol Hand Stock, Deeley-edge F<
neatly engraved, both Barrels Choke Bore
W. W. Greener’s Special Pigeon Hammerless Gun
Bib, Top Lever,
£8 10s.
Steel Barrels,
ire-end Fastener,
.£l7 10s.
<£26 10s.
Small Bore Breech-
Loading Guns.
Useful to Orchardists and others
for Destroying Vermin.
SUITABLE FOR LADIES’ USE.
The Tholet Arms Co.’s Collector
(iun, Single-barrel, 410-gauge,
33/6 ; Double-barrel, 47/6.
HOLLIS’ GUNS.
Single = barrel Breech » loading
Gun, 410-gauge Collector, 55/-
Double = barrel Breech - loading
Gun, 410-gauge Collector, Side
Lever, 87/6 ; Top Lever, £6/10/=
Hollis & -ons Double-barrel Breech-loading'
? ( u “’ £“ e Panmure,” Greener Cross Bolt, Sienian’s
f lart'n oteel Barrels, extended Rib, hammers below
hne of sight, Left Barrel Choke Bore, good Steel
Rebounding Locks, Half Pistol Hand Stock, flat file cut
rib Snap Fore-end, Walnut Heart Stock, Nitro-proof,
and chambered for 2f cases .£6
Hollis & Sons’ 12-g'auffe Double-barrel Breech-loading -
Gun, “ The Commonwealth,” Top Lever, Percussion
Fence, three Pin Bridle Locks, Left Barrel Choke Bore, Half
Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock, Deeley-edge Fore-end, Scroll
engraved, Engine-turned Rib, Greener Cross Bolt ... ,£9.
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
“The Stirling 1 ,” 12-gauge, Damascus Barrels, Left
Choke, Bar Action Locks, Extended Rib, Greener
Cross Bolt, Deeley-edge Fore-end, Walnut Stock, highly
finished 15 s .
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
STEVENS FIREARMS
THE WORLD’S STANDARD.
iWmt'r£%y
mujm&m
* \
POPULAR PRICED RIFLES
are notable for their ACCU-
RACY, RELIABILITY and
LASTING QUALITIES.
STEVENS FIGHTING LINE.
Our Demi-Bloc and Repeating Shotguns are "Superb for Trap and Field/
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Insist on our make.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.O Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire*
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [7
Underwear
Made in
England
MARK
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added. ''*•
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR
COUGHS
ħ
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds, clears
away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the respiratory
organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, Throat Weakness and more virulent forms of colds
immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses taken in the early
stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
h
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : “ Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
ĥ
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
'An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, aind Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Tablets I/IJ and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c., in Australia.
ProprietorsASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONE* »N. E.C., ENGLAND.
Australian Mutual Provident Society,
Established 1549.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined'), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IPS 1 " AT LOWEST CURRENT RATZS OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors —The Hon. A. VY. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black. M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchooinbe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., E.F.A., P.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretaiy.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
For BILIOUSNESS Sr INDIGESTION
I
y
D
c
o
so
Plt-JL
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned — Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
Cockle’s Pills conquer Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
kind; because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
which they cleanse and regulate with such consummate ease and efficiency.
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
disease. Yet Cockle’s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them.
Will Andrape « BOOKS.
How to Woo
and Win.
THE ART AND
ETIQUETTE OF
Love and Courtship
The Best Lover’s Guide:
Ever Published.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1 ; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/0, posted 3/9; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/ ; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
Wm-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Above prices include*postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
MRS. EMMA MAYES,
of the
Beach Hotel,
Williamstown, Victoria,
recommends
CLEMENTS TONIC.
Beach Hotel, Twyford Street,
Williamstown, 21/3/’u-
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ It is a few years back that I was getting out of sorts or run down that I
used Clements Tonic first. I believe it was a nervous disorder, and if it had not
been checked might have led to something serious. I was very fortunate in
the choice of Clements Tonic, for I have always found it a grand medicine.
Most of my family are grown up, but they always use Clements Tonic ; that is
why they enjoy such good health.
“(Signed) EMMA HAYES.”
MISS ALICE MITCHELL, a member of the New Comic Opera Co., Theatre
Royal, Sydney, writes, 23/7/’ 11
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“After taking your valuable tonic for some considerable time, during an
extended tour of the Commonwealth and New Zealand, I find myseli m
perfect health, and strongly recommend this medicine to anyone run down or
suffering from over-taxation of the nerves. I also find it keeps the singm a
voice clear and strong. t t
“(Signed) ALICE MITCHELL.
Never be without Clements Tonic. It gives health, purifies the blood, strengthens the nerves,
and sweetens daily life. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHER •


4 Family
Medicine
Without
Alcohol
I
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic
and alterative, free from alcohol.
What is a “tonic”? A medicine
that imparts strength or tone; a
medicine that builds up, gives
vigor and power. What is an
“ alterative ” ? A medicine that
alters or changes unhealthy ac-
tion to healthy action. Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla does all this with-
out stimulation. Ask your doc-
tor if a family medicine, like
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, is not vastly
better without alcohol than
with it.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE
M
NTS
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
I Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
Practical Proof.
There never were so
many people using
Cerebos Salt as there are
to-day, which shows that
its purity, goodness and
daintiness are every day
becoming more and more
appreciated.
Cerebos
Salt.
Agents—Harrison & Attv/ood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
*B5B
I
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
h
BE, SURE YOU GET
BONIMINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bonnington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try it the next time you have a cold, and you will be satisfied. " [1
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing; Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
ĥ
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
1405
A Well-Rounded Bosom
Is the Pride and Joy of All Women.
No woman need remain flat and undeveloped, thin, and
miserable. Your weight can be increased, and bust developed
to normal. It is done for hundreds of others, and can be as
readily done for you. If your bust lacks development and
firmness and yoiir arms, neck and shoulders are thin and
scrawny, even though your face is pretty, you invariably take
second place to your more fully-developed, full-bosomed asso-
ciates in your own social set. It will always be so unless you
correct the imperfections in your figure. Send a 2d. Stamp
for a Free Sample of Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-Food, and our free
book which tells how. Flesh-Food is harmless to use, and the
treatment rapidly and permanently develops a poor figure to
normal. Thousands endorse it. Full particulars free.
FALLIEBE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
£2O FREE
EVERY WEEK!'
Try to Solve
this Puzzle.
EVERY WEEK we give away Cash Order Prizes that
average over £lOOO a year—or its equivalent m high-class
iewellerv —to persons who are willing to use their prams
and talents. If you can find the “boss” in this picture,
mark it and send it to us. If correct we will send you a
Cash Order for your portion of this week s allotment, and
full particulars of our conditions. Under them you can
win many articles of jewellery— Gold Watches and
Chains, Rings, Bangles, Guns, Cuff-Ginks, etc., etc.
This offer is made to advertise our famous Electine
Pills, four kinds, for which successful contestants may
become our agents. Eight packets sent with Cash Order.
No successful contestant ever received less than a Pour
Shilling Order. This offer open for limited time only.
This farm hand is diligently work-
ing because his Employer is near,
though hidden. Find the Employer.
ms •,
».Z»
ELECXINE MEDICINE CO,, 203 EEECTINE BUILDING, SYDNEY.
ħ
Especially
valuable in hot
climates.
IDEAL POOD FOR
CHILDREN FROM BIRTH.
Only the choicest Malted Barley,
Wheat and Pure Milk used in the
manufacture, and so combined as
to form a perfectly nutritious
food suitable to all ages.
Beware of Infants’ Food containing Starch.
Horlick’s Malted Milk is passed by the Board of
Health for Australia, as Free from Starch.
Requires No Cooking. No added Milk.
Prepared instantly by stirring in water.
Wholesome. Invigorating. Sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Samples:—B2, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks., England.
SMOKERS
CAN BE CURED!
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless veg-
etable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system, and
aids Nature in entirely eliminating the Nicotine
Poison from the system.
FREE TRIAL.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this grand remedy, and also our free
booklet. Trial package often effects a cure.
Mr. H. Smith, Park Farm, Jericho, Tas., says: ’ 1
was a hard smoker for 30 years, but since taking your
sample ot Tobacco Specific I have never had asmoke.
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
Drunkards
Cured. “ Golden Specific ”is perfectly harmless
and can be given secretly. It has often cured a most
violent drunkard in a few days. Send 2d. stamp tor
Free Sample and Free Descriptive Booklet.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.,
Dept. *, 100£ MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
56 toAS 7cwt.
The weight of the quarcer-
million Wayback Books
sold to dnte.
The Body-Building
Power of
BOVRIL
The Standardised BEEF FOOD.
h
fhns: If this repre-
sents the amount of
Bovril taken
This outline dia-
gram represents
the actual
I BODY-BUILD
1 IMG POWER .
This diagram illustrates the
actual body-buil ding power of
Bovril, proved by recent
independent physiological
experiments to be
10 to 20 times
the amount taken.
Bovril, Ltd., hold the Royal Warrant of
Appointment to His Majesty King George V.,
an A ppointment also held for wany years
from the late King Edward VII.
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Priest to the Temple.
I am as lazy as a Summer sea,
Divinely lazy, grandly indolent;
In joyous wealth of lavish lassitude
I mark the happy clouds that float and brood
In sleepy skies. A measureless content
Fills all this greener place of herb and tree.
Spent are the breezes of the chill, sweet south;
The master sun, full-rayed with Summer flame,
Drives down the westward slope. In the deep shade
Is set a. quiet shrine, where one white maid
Tends a cool altar. Chaste and free from blame
Are all the holy kisses of her mouth.
Fair is the priestess, but the inner dusk
Is fragrant with the breath of deity;
The lucent sandals of a goddess press
These shadows, and the waft of her clear dress
Winnows the leaves like wings of memory
Beating in dreams the sweets of rose and musk.
Deep in the cool of grasses lush and rare
Her worshippers lie prone, and over them
Grows the vast sweetness of her quiet eyes,
And the slow smile on perfect lips made wise
By happy silence. One red, glowing gem
Flames in the darkness of her braided hair.
Here is no voice of revel; feast and song
Dwell never in these shadows, and no drum,
Throbbing its vibrant thunders from afar,
Can set the green a-shudder. Love and war,
Rude labor, and the many-hearted hum
Of silver prayer faint in an air so strong.
Here no flute ripples with a shepherd strain,
Nor harp-string with the finger of the wind
Stirs vagrant melody. Twin mirth and wail
Perish upon the threshold, and the pale
Chaplet of thought is withered. Gems that bind
The brow of memory melt to dreams again.
For at the outer portal of the shade
There droops a crystal veil of ecstasy
That purifies the spirit with cold fire,
Cleansing the taint of motive and desire
From every vein of throbbing energy,
Till will and reason like the winds are laid.
Dear goddess of the shadow-haunted eyes,
Bend softly over me, teach me to know
The measured cadences of things that are,
The reverent indolence of sun and star,
The listless gladness of all flowers that blow,.
And make me as the trees and mountains wise!
This hour is thine. My languid soul in thrall
Sees naught beyond the rippling of thine hair,
Feels naught beyond the fragrance of thy breath,
Tastes naught beyond the kiss that lingereth
On my rapt lips. A god’s large bliss I share,
And dreaming nothing, find that nothing all.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Memory.
Summer comes round on land and sea,
Clad in a radiant panoply,
Crowned and costumed in burning gold.
But where are the lights that shone of old ?
Beauty is born of each rare hour —-
Blade and frondage and feather and flower,
Color and perfume on all the ways.
But where is the beauty of old-time days?
Having much, we sigh for the little we lack,
And, aching and ailing, the heart goes back
From the golden Present —the near, rich lights—
To the Past with dead grey noons and nights.
Why? . . . Because in the sunlit South
There was no mouth with the red of her mouth ;
No hair like hers ’neath its arching skies,
And no eyes blue as her blue, sweet eyes.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Tyrant.
0 pitiless Sea, thou hast flooded mine eyes
With tears that are salt as thy brine!
Deep down in thy cavernous bosom, where lies
The wife thou hast riven from mine ?
Oh, where hast thou hidden my bride of a year ;
The treasure I trusted to thee?
My hope has become but a foil to my fear,
O cruel, insatiate Sea!
Since man’s puny might, but omnipotent soul,
Has dared thy tempestuous whim,
Oh, bitterly heavy, a merciless toll,
Thy storms have exacted of him !
Could woe of the mother, nor weeping of wife,
Suffice thy usurious fee?
Thou leavest indeed but the wreck of my life,
O cruel, insatiate Sea!
Because, like a tiger, with feline caress
Thy ripples kiss lightly the shore,
Shall toll that thou takest of life be the less?
Thy measure of mercy be more?
Deep hid in the slime that lies under thy smile
Are ships thou hast tossed in thy glee,
Discarded, the toys that amused thee awhile,
O cruel, insatiate Sea!
O treacherous Sea! In inveterate hate
Ten thousand of hearts hast thou tossed
On billows of hope and despair alternate,
With “Overdue!” “Missing!” and “Lost!”
The bones of the ships that lie strewn on thy sand,
We gave thee, an offering free.
Could they not content thine unending demand,
O cruel, insatiate Sea!
,s.w.
JOHN WALTERS.
The Procession of the Hours.
The hours upon their tender feet,
To mingled cheers and hoots,
Go .waddling down Time’s dusty street
In old prunella boots.
The arms of three are full of bags
Containing produce cheap ;
Hard work is borne by eight old hags;
Eight more bear home our sleep.
And five convey our shoddy toys —
Our hobbies, hates and loves,
All jumbled up with fears and joys—
In busted cotton gloves.
Straight to Life’s dingy boarding-den
The dull procession wends ;
It hurries in and out again
And starts off when it ends.
Instead of going with it, I
Forego of sleep my share,
And watch it, wond’ring dully why
The hours can’t do their hair.
TT.S.W.
KODAK.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CIOSED AS COUCH
tmtmm
•V
•W
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
Rheumatism, Indigestion, Kidney Trouble.
PAGE’S INDIAN COMPOUND
May be obtained from all Chemists and Stores, Price
Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Or direct from the Manufacturers, Post Free on receipt of price,
PAGE & COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
2/6
per
Bottle.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 24 Bond Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills Stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
NEW WELSBACH
Inverted BURNER
CHINA
CASING.
Sold
by all
Store-
keepers.
FOR INDOOR LIGHTING.
Highly
Decorative
Artistic
Finish.
All the
Latest
Improve-
ments in
Inverted
Burners.
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
Agencies at Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
GOOD WATCHES
at LOW PRICES!
The two watches here illustrated
are splendid timekeepers, and will
give you noend of satisfactory service.
Send for one to=day, and if you’re
not satisfied with it after a week’s
trial send it back and I’ll refund your
money.
3216
\
M
N
m
POST
FREE.
'Solid Silver Keyless Horizontal Watch, heavy
Double Case. The movement is strongly made and
well finished. Warranted for 10 years, and kept in
order free for two years,, ,
ĥ
/
4 Ofe
sTRce
s?
6YON6
%
POST
FREE.
The Joe Davis “Reliance” Lever, Oxidised or
Nickel Case, dustproof and watertight. Jewelled
movement. A perfect timekeeper, and wonderful
value at the price. Warranted for five years, and
kept in order free for 12 months.
My Big Jewellery Catalogue is a
money saver. Send me your
name and address, and I will post
you a copy.
JOE DAVIS,
“ The Money Saving Jeweller,”
26 Park Street, Sydney
(One door from Pitt Street).
ABDVLLA
CIGARETTES.
In Health, Wealth and Happiness,
Abdulla Cigarettes you’ll bless.
MlfiEIYiCE!
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA
mu
i f
;
■
mm
3PP
A Motor Show
that is always worth seeing is the collection of beautiful models on view
in our Garage.
Every one of the makes for which we hold the sole* agencies is picked
from the World’s Best.
DAIMLER,
AUSTIN,
DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE,
F.N.
all are of handsome appearance, with luxurious fittings; and all
for the highest degree of excellence in design, make and material.
The best proof of the good qualities of the
HALLEY MOTOR LORRY
is in the satisfaction of buyers, and in their expression
REPEAT ORDERS.
are famous
of this by
DALGETY CO. LTD.,
Motor Garage, 136=138 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 82. —No. 1(147.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7. 1911.
PIUOK til..
AUSTRALIA’S HIGH CONDITIONER.
In this country George Reid has won singularly wide personal popularity, not only in London, but throughout the principal centres of population in the
provinces. His energy has appeared almost superhuman. Through the long and busy season he has not only dined out nearly every night, but has frequently
lunched, and occasionally, as on the departure of Mr. Irving to Australia, sat out a late supper party.— Henry Lucy m the S. M. HERALD’S London letter.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. £ 1 6 0
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and. to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 31)00 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at lild per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, lib High tlolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, 1/1/1 Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.—lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
[long Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. %d.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and B§oz. to
lOoz., 2)d; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d; elsewhere, 1/oz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1911.
THE DAY OF GLOOM.
These are sorrowful days among the Free-
traders of Great Britain —days of doubt and
cold feet —days when the plug hat of the
true believer is barely visible above the
waters of despondency—days when forebod-
ing goes about like a swift india-rubber lion
seeking what it may devour. The Freetrader
is obviously not what he was. His brief,
tempestuous creed has gone through three
stages and several sub-stages, and now there
are signs, and very many of them, that the
last toothless period of its existence is not
far off. It is difficult to fix dates, for one
historical period is apt to melt imperceptibly
into another, but the establishment of the
Cobden policy is commonly regarded as hav-
ing begun after a small fashion about 1846
and as having been completed about 1869.
Anyone who is not satisfied with these dates
can fix others for himself, but these are near
enough for ordinary purnoses. During the
early part of this period Britain was talking
Freetrade and beginning to practise it. But
it began so tentatively that it was not till
1869 that the system was in fairly complete
working order. And during these preliminary
years Britain was aided by a number of
special circumstances. In the first place,
centuries of rigorous Protection, and of, gen-
erally, good luck in war, had placed it so far
ahead, not only of all individual competitors,
but of all industrial competitors combined,
that it was veritably the world’s workshop,
and it seemed as if any serious opposition
was an illimitable space of years ahead.
Secondly, the gigantic and incredible influx
of gold from Australasia created a. boom
which covered a multitude of sins. And
thirdly, the Freetrade craze spread to other
countries which now compete seriously
against Britain, and for a number of years
they obligingly obliterated themselves to a
very great extent. From 1851 to some year
which is rather hard to fix—probably in the
’SO’s of last century—was the halcyon period
of Freetrade, when the Bounderby of the new
creed projected himself into the illimitable
future and declined to listen to argument,
and the Pumblechook of the new cult
drowned all hostile criticism with his voice.
* * * *
The change came slowly at first —-so slowly
that it is as impossible to put a finger upon
the precise spot on the calendar as it is to
say that one moment before noon on a certain
day the Roman Empire was still on the up
grade, that at noon sharp it had become a
stationary proposition, and that at one
minute past noon it had accomplished the
first .00000000000001tli of an inch of the
downward slither which, after many cen-
turies, was to end in the pit of perdition.
Other nations drifted to Protection, one at a
time, and with long intervals between. They
began to protect their industries in a very
small way that hardly mattered, and it was
only at further intervals that they added to
their tariffs and got them into real fighting
order. Britain had still its stupendous gold
inflow, which helped to disguise the position
just as the gold of Mexico and Peru once did
in Spain, and none of its rivals save the
United States enjoyed this advantage. The
period was also one of large annexations,
which opened new markets and created a
sort of prosperity, and it was a time of free-
dom from serious war, in which respect some
of Britain’s competitors were less fortunate.
Yet there came a time in the late ’9o’s when
it had to be admitted that things were not
all they had been. No one could say just
when the difference began, but there was a
difference. Then the Boer war possibly gave
a jolt to a constitution which could no longer
stand sudden shocks, just as happened to the
frozen pirate of fiction when he fell over
some small obstacle at the age of between
100 and 200, and his suspended old age hit
him all at once.
* * * *
At all events a day has come when Britain
has to acknowledge that Germany is ahead
of it as a manufacturing Power, and that
the United States is so immeasurably ahead
that it now turns out more than three times
Bz-itain’s value in finished goods. And the
boast that the British workman is the most
prosperous in the world has been regretfully
put away in the lumber room of exploded
events. The German worker is reluctantly
admitted to be as comfortable as his English
rival, and a recent inquiry made by the
Board of Trade in London led to the sorrow-
ful admission that, while the United States
toiler pays 50 per cent, more than the J.
Bull artisan for living expenses, he receives
fully 130 per cent, more pay. Yet so long
as British industries continued to grow, the
mere fact that those of some other countries
were growing faster didn’t constitute an abso-
lute nightmare. The British individual
didn’t leap up horizontally in his sleep, and
strike the ceiling of his modest chamber and
fall back on the bed in a cold perspiration.
He didn’t have to step high as he left his
door, in order to get over the hideous shape
of the Dweller on the Threshold —something
with the head of Cobden, and the body of
the Beast of Revelation, and with the worm
that dieth not for a tail. The wolf didn’t
come so near the door that his noisome
breath poured through the keyhole and
spoiled the victuals, and though the dragon
of Want might be in the streets, he hadn’t
got so far as actually to take off the roof andl
look with a baleful saucer eye inside. Now,
however, another change has become ap-
parent. It is the fear that the long-continued
decline in agriculture may be accom-
panied by one in manufactures, that has
driven the Briton to wear a porous plaster
on his back, in order to counteract the cold
feeling at the base of the stomach.
* * * *
The latest Statesman’s Year Book does
not, unfortunately, bring all its figures up to
the year 1910. If it did it rnigiit perhaps
be more cheering than it is; also it might
not. At all events the figures set forth are
poor enough. The amount of iron ore pro-
duced in the British Isles (1909) was
14,979,979 tons, against 15,731,604 tons in
1907. In the same period the iron ore im-
ported fell from 7,641,934 tons to 6,328,623,
showing an all-round decline in the industry.
The number of blast furnaces was 369 in
1907 and only 318 in 1909, and in these same
years the amount of ore smelted was reduced
from 25,123,759 tons to 23,691,241 tons.
The pig-iron output fell from 10,114,281
tons to 9,531,987 tons; and the pig-iron ex-
ported from 1,943,939 tons to 1,140,695 tons.
These are not wildly hilarious figures in any
respect. The coal dug out of the bowels of
Bull’s country was 267,830,962 tons in
1907, while in 1909 it showed a slight drop,
and the figure was 263,774,312 tons. The
value dropped more than the quantity—
from £120,527,378 in 1907 to £106,274,888 in
1909. The value of coal and coke exported
achieved a notable slump, from £42,118,994
to £37,129,978. The same authority declares
that the amount of cotton retained in Britain
for use in British factories reached the top
figure (2,056,735,7441 b.) in 1907, while in
1910 (these figures are more up-to-date than
the others) it was down to 1,716,763,5521 b.
The wool retained for use in British fac-
tories is tabulated as 590 million lb. in 1907
and 535 million lb. in 1909, but some rather
scrappy later figures suggest that this in-
dustry looked up again in 1910. The flax
industry is given in three-year periods, and
the average annual consumption of flax in
the British factories is set down as distinctlv
greater in 1905-6-7 (226,000,0001 b) than in
1908-9-10 (217,000,0001 b.). Figures are
dreary things at best, but some figures are
drearier than others, and these figures are
distinctly the drearier ones—not the others.
The same oft-quoted book of reference
offers more food for profound reflection. It
gives in three-year periods, and up to the
latest date, the value of the cotton, woollen
and flax industries combined, and declares
that, when the three are added together, the
average annual consumption of raw material
in British factories was 2824 million lb. for
11)05-0-7, and only 2077 million lb. for 1908-
9-10. It reveals that British woollens are
one-fourth, or more than one-fourth, old rags.
It alleges that, in the year 1900, vessels re-
presenting 922,182 tons were built in British
yards for the British mercantile marine;
that in 1907 the figure was 740,812 tons ; in
1908 a mere 413,052 tons; and in 1909 only
510,890 tons. Statistics of this sort suggest
a heroic slump. The total British shipping
engaged in home and foreign trade —in other
words, everything in active service bar river
and canal boats —is alleged to have been
11,288,759 tons in 1907, and only 11,140,801
tons in 1909. The British ships that en-
tered and cleared at British ports for over-
sea voyages dropped from 81,308,000 tons in
1907 to 79,704,000 tons in 1909, while foreign
shipping in British ports increased in the
same time from 51,903,000 tons to 53,504,000
tops. The revenue from the railways of the
United Kingdom sank from £121,545,923 for
the year 1907 to £120,174,052 in 1909. The
net post and telegraph revenue has been
declining for some years, though that doesn’t
necessarily prove anything. The total births
in three kingdoms during 1907 were
1,148,573, as compared with the diminished
figure of 1,145,962 in 1909 (there was a
temporary rise in 1908, because that was
leap-year, and there was an extra day to be
born on). The figures for 1910 are given
as regards Scotland only, and show 4000 less
births for that little kingdom alone than
there were in 1909, which is a further fall of
no small magnitude. Marriages diminished
from 332,072 (1907) to 313,001 (1909).
The births increased (from
47,095 to 49,111), though the total births
slumped. The number of British and Irish
emigrants reached the top in 1910 (in this
department the figures are unusually up-to-
date). So did the bill for the maintenance
of paupers, which was £13,834,419 in 1901;
£16,694,752 in 19G7; and £17,588,212 in
1909.
* * * *
There are still some more interesting
features in the same interesting and fre-
quently-mentioned publication. The number
of convictions for serious crimes was 14,184
in 1907 (a steady effort is made to avoid the
year 1908, which, being leap-year, supplied
an extra day on which any man might be
convicted or hanged) ; it rose in 1909 to
14,987. The new census alleges that out of
the 67 counties which make up Scotland and
Ireland 45 show a loss of population during
the past 10 years; that five of the 12 Welsh
counties exhibit the same result; also three
English counties. On the other hand, the
value of the fish products of British waters
rose from £11,266,283 in 1907 to £11,342,660
in 1910 (1909 was a worse year than 1907),
a rise of £76,377. And foreign commerce —
the persistent dragging of goods here and
there —grows steadily, though apparently
the proportion carried in British vessels
doesn’t increase. In 1907 the imports and
exports of the United Kingdom were worth
£1,163,785,109. The next two years saw a
decline, but the figures for 1910 reached
£1,212,806,055. Even the exports of Britain’s
own produce have grown a little, despite the
decline of so many industries, though in
proportion to population they are on the
down grade; in 1907 they stood at
£426,035,083, or £9 13s. 3d. for each inhabi-
tant; while in 1910, after two years of severe
downfall, they reached £430,589,811, or £9
9s. sd. per inhabitant. One theory is that
the Briton uses less and sells more because
of his poverty; a second view is that the
preference granted to purely British goods
by some parts of Greater Britain induces him
to sell British goods and use foreign; a third
explanation is that both influences are at
work. At all events, it is certain that the
export of British goods is less per inhabitant
than it was in 1907, while dealings in foreign
goods have gone up.
* * * *
Even with all the expansion of foreign
commerce, the total result is not cheerful.
There is a feeling in some quarters that 1907
was the last year of prosperity under the old
order of things, and that since then the
slump has been more sudden, more obvious
and more widely diffused than any slump was
before, except in time of war, or during the
exhaustion which followed on a series of
ruinous campaigns. So, nowadays, the Eng-
lishman wakes in the middle of the night and
fancies that the belltopper on the peg is a
devil, or sits up in the dim grey of morning
with an idea that his coat upon the nail is
the freshly-hanged ghost of Cobden. He can
hardly even fall over a donkey on his way
home without wondering if John Bright has
not risen from the dead. In short, he is
nervous and afflicted with the jumps, and
unless there is an early improvement in his
affairs these jumps are liable to become
chronic.
THE TRADE OF WAR.
Some language from “Bilbax” :
The Bulletin, I notice, is prosecuting the Anci-
Soldier agitators and press before the court of Public
Opinion. On behalf of the defendant party I beg
leave to offer a few remarks.
All the cost of war, in blood, suffering and misery,
falls on the working-classes. Working-class fathers,
husbands and sons provide Hie battle-field banquet for
the crows. Working-class mothers, sisters and chil-
dren of the before-mentioned crow’s-meat—-deprived
of the Saturday night dividend it paid when in its
live state —pawn soul and body for a price that is
not always sufficient to maintain those assets in a
marketable condition. Then, for them, comes star-
vation, with its ultimate happy release in the ex-
change of the dismal Hell here for the merrier Hell
down under, where rent and fuel are free, and food
and clothing don’t matter. And the working-class
survivors (those who fought and those who stayed at
home) are taxed while they live to pay the war-bill;
and, similarly, after them, their children and their
children’s children even unto the ninth generation.
To the capitalist class go all the spoils. Whether
victory be scored or not, theirs the profit on guns,
ships, officers’ millinery, and the general war equip-
ment. Theirs the grab of territorv. tribute and trade
when the Lord of Hosts has fought on their side.
And when He deserts, the capitalist man easily stand
from under and let the tax-burden wallop on to the
other fellow. To its Kitchener the grateful State
hands half a million of money as his fitting reward:
to its Tommy Atkins (and only if he be crippled)
twopence a day, or thereabouts.
Soon the crossing of the border by the standing
army of a European country will be the signal for the
revolt of the working-class at home. They know at
last that the main purpose served by a standing
army is the maintenance of working-class thraldom.
Foreign predation is but its incidental use. For
my justification in asserting working-class conscious-
ness of this position, I point to Industrial Unionism —
a movement common to all white-man countries;
based on an understanding of what is here rou-dilv
stated ; international in its aim; only yesterday" re
garded as the impossible fad of a few ; to-dav movin'-
with a speed that dwarfs all else in working-class
history. Industrial Unionists have it that to lend
their fighting-power to the State, until thev have
attained complete political control and complete in-
dustrial organisation, is but to rivet their own chains
the more securely. In their regard the soldier is the
one disabling scab on the working-class body.
The above attitude docs not blind the Australian
working-man to the danger, that The Bulletin in-
sists upon, of his country being invaded by a pre-
datory nation. But he’s too busy just now with an
equally important and more immediate matter. Here
in Queensland are big encampments of workers, fight-
ing on the folded-arms method, with the organised
force of the State arrayed against them, in support or
the capitalist endeavor to withhold any reward to
Labor other than a starvation wage. The story of recent
struggles of the same kind is too fresh in the worker’s
memory to permit of any enthusiasm about the forma-
tion of a lighting force that, in present circum-
stances, would certainly be used against him.
The fact to be faced in this matter is that the
old order is changing. The grossly materialistic-
spirit of the age, working downwards, now permeates
even the working-class. Glory, patriotism, the graves
of our fighting forefathers, the dear old flag, "Just
Before the Battle, Mother,” the blare of trumpets, and
all the old conjurations fail to stir the working-man’s
pulse as of yore. He begins to callously ask where
does he come in, and what is the Wages Board
award in this particular trade?
Here semes to me a fair solution of the difficulty.
We have hundreds of unemployed at any time of the
year: in winter there are thousands idle in the
Southern States. An offer of fair wages for a fixed
term (coincident as far as possible with the slack
season) would enrol battalions in the big centres.
And, with a clearly-defined arrangement that the
worker might spend any unemployed period in thus
acquiring a military training (and wages), this
would bring practically the whole of the working-
class into the army. The laborer is just as worthy
of his hire when working for his country as when
privately employed, and just as much a scab if he
takes less than fair wages for soldiering in defence
of other people’s property, as when he undercuts his
mate who is fighting for tucker for wife and children.
The day of the slave-soldier is passing; and the
above are probably the best terms on which the
State can hope to lure the present-day worker into
the fighting-trade.
* * * *
To which The Bulletin offers a few dis-
respectful remarks in reply :
(1) All the cost of war in blood, etc., doesn’t
fall on the working«classes .under a system of compul-
sory military training. The rich mall’s son has to get
into the ranks just the sanle as the poor man’s. If the
officers, as is the case in many countries, come from
the wealthy classes, so much the worse for them.
They get the most bullets in proportion to their
numbers. For instance, in the- Franco-German war
the death-rate among privates was--:-Engineers, 17 per
1000 ; cavalry and artillery, 27 ; infantry, 52 ; while
officers died at the rate of 76 per 1000, and that was
quite an ordinary case. As for the poor paying all
the bill, they don’t —unless they pay champagne
duty, income-tax, tax on armorial bearings, and
100 things of that sort.
(2) The rich don’t get all the profit on guns, etc.
-—not in Australia, and Australia is the place that
affects us. This country is starting its own arms
factory, and it has schemes for making its uniforms
in Government workshops, and building its-ships in
Government yards. What profits there are go to
the workers. As to the idea (re the “grab of terri-
tory”) that the Australian Labor Government may
have schemes for annexing Japan, or some foreign
country, and dividing up the soil among the great
Australian capitalists, it is too childish to be worth
consideration.
(3) As regards the statement that “the main pur-
pose served by a standing army is the maintenance of
working-class thraldom” —who in thunder wants a
standing army ? The whole purpose of universal mili-
tary training is to avoid the need for a standing
army. When the Parliament which controls the citi-
zen force is one in which every adult citizen and
citizeness has an equal vote, and when the military
force consists of male voters who are also the male
workers —well, that force can’t be used to systemati-
cally oppress the worker, unless that same worker is
a tyrant, a ruffian and a non-unionist at heart, .also
a habitual suicide. All the talk about things that
happen in despotic countries in Europe is as - much
beside the question as the battles of the kites and
crows. The view that an army of the people, solely
controlled by the people (by all the people) is liable
to go in for wanton war simply because the people
want to be killed for the benefit of capitalists, reads
like blank insanity.
(1) The proposal of “Bilbax” to have a sort of
well-paid periodical standing army of unemployed
(presumably to shoot down the employed when
they want better wages) doesn’t appeal to this paper.
That army would include most of the able-bodied
scamps and wasters of the community, and- it. would
thus tend to form a separate caste, and a very dan-
gerous one. It wouldn’t include “practically the
whole working-class,” for the whole working-class
doesn’t suffer from spells of unemployment. And if
it did “include practically the whole working-class,”
why should the workman alone be shot at?
(5) “Bilbax’s” theory seems to be that the only
armies in existence should belong to despotic coun-
tries which are likely to invade their neighbors, and
that countries like Australia, where the people are the
sole rulers, and where - aggressive war is. impossible,
unless folk, like “Bilbax-” become mad for blood,
should have no defence-at all.- In short, all the arms
the world possesses should be in the hands of bad
characters, and the good characters should rely- on
prayer.
(6) The Bulletin again urges that the policy of
non-resistance should be first tried locally and on a
small scale. Let us abolish the police, and see if
our own people can be relied upon not to do
burglary, stoush and other crimes. If we find vre
can fully trust them, let us begin to think m
trusting other nations. It is rash to go the whole
experimental or untried hog in an instant.
(7) The Bulletin undertakes to devote next Sun-
day to thinking over “Bilbax’s" other propositions.
The idea that patriotism should be abolished, anc
that nobody should do anything for the defence of his
country and his fellow-man (and woman) except for
full current wages, is certainly interesting. T“ e
proposal that everybody should receive _ full pay for
the time spent in his military education natural!.'
raises the question whether children at school and
youths at college shouldn’t also be paid for lost
time. And though it is mere ignorance to talk of
Kitchener receiving half a million, and of a pri-
vate’s pension being 2d. per day (the minimum is
Bd.), still such discrepancies as that between
Kitchener’s reward and the reward of T. Atkins
are striking. There are many things of the kind m
this world. One is the discrepancy between the pay
of the caretaker or cleaner at the Trades Hall and tne
pay of the eminent Labor man who is Prime Minister
of Australia. Why not tackle this local anomaly
first ?
CHRISTIAN BURIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The average citizen who mixes Heaven
with the House of Hanover, and who is
half-satisfied that every British war is under
the especial guidance of the Almighty, shud-
ders at the imagined horrors of the Parsers
Towers of Silence, and then buries his dear
in sure and certain hope of a glorious resin-
rection. In Sydney he mostly buries him m
Rookwood, where the resurrection is partm
and of great frequency, and occurs usual!'
much earlier than was expected. In the re-
cently-published particulars of the filth.'
abuses of this and other cemeteries the
were the horrors of five in a grave, ot m-
liquescent corruption that oozed at the te
of the clayey rises and snaked along in sim-
gish filthiness to pools that were the dri
of dairy cows. The bitter cry of the re
lord who owns property near by is hear .


for a depreciated dollar roars like a wounded
bull; but there is no audible protest from
the children who drank the milk, because
probably some are dead and others can’t
scream sufficiently loud, and a baby in arms
can’t write an indignant letter to the news-
papers. The adult people have not made a
great fuss either, principally because use
hath made for them a property of easiness.
One gentleman remarked that the crawling
essence of decayeu body “fair hummed” in
hot weather, but generally there was an air
of toleration of an evil which makes the fas-
tidious man feel sick ; and all over Australia
are simply filthy necropoli to poison the
living. The point of view of the child has
not been canvassed at all. Australia, at
great expense, is importing population, much
of it of very mediocre quality of body
and mind; but most of its acts of
omission of hygienic observance are
directed towards, or at least result
in, the great mortality of the best immi-
grant of all—the little foreigner who arrives
per Stork. Tuberculous cows, murderous
milkmen, bread adulterators, sugar fakirs, in-
sanitary-dwelling rentlords —all these are his
assassins. And now his dead grandfather
rises from the grave in poison, and his long-
deceased aunt flows to the dairy to kill him.
* * * *
Nothing can be more ridiculous than the
spectacle of a country equipping itself with
sanitary science to destroy disease, and
maintaining hospitals for its cure, while
carefully sowing all the old, and possibly
some new, diseases. For germ and bacillus
seem to struggle to keep pace with modern
improvements and open new departments in
their murder store every year. Rontgen
rays, radium, the increasingly skilful use of
the knife, antitoxins of diphtheria and bu-
bonic, “606,” and the pitting of malignant
erysipelas against malignant cancer that
each may destroy the other —what are all
these but palliatives when we make treasure-
houses of the carcases of the dead hosts of
cancer and tubercule and diphtheria and bu-
bonic and syphilis, giving all this filth to a
clean earth that it may be fruitful of horror
and multiply too-early death! The earth
and the elements are great alchemists, and
the people who cling slavishly to burial as a
religious observance rely too much on the
laboratory, and overwork it. Because last
year’s dunghill is this year’s rose, the horrors
that clings to the festering body of old Two
Bottles Man, the celebrated convivant, are
forgotten ; the slow-exhaled corruption of the
corpse of the tanner, which will last you
nine years, are overlooked in the interests
of the most squalid of sentimentalities. The
Chinese keeps his dead in his house for 49
days, and for as long after as the astrologer
thinks necessary to ensure a lucky burial.
But he puts the body into a hermetically •
sealed coffer dam with quicklime ; while we
bury ours mostly in flimsy shells of pine
that burst under the gases of dissolution, so
that the living may be poisoned, and the
horrors of death continued in earth that
tries always to be clean. Even the aborigi-
nal knows better. Rarely will he
bury in the earth. Often he will elevate the
body to a platform that it may dry the more
quickly, though he makes little use of birds
in the Parsee manner. But we build hypo-
critically the granite sepulchre, topped by
the marble angel spreading his wings ; and
below the angel, and rotting in the dark, is
the filthy and abandoned house of all these
commemorated virtues, slowly reeking till it
leaves a husk and disarticulated bones.
Cremation would only be a step back to
the hygiene of the ancients, who were suffi-
ciently Pagan to be clean. Christianity,
cowering in its catacombs, had in those
catacombs to dispose of its dead, sealing them
up in pigeon-holes, and protected against
pestilence by the dry, open and absorbent
character of the tufaceous rock in which
these subterranean cities were excavated. By
the time Christianity became strong enough
to rise to the surface, burial had become a
habit; and the victors naturally destroyed
the Pagan practice of cremation, as they
frowned on the other clean Pagan habit of
the bath. Further, to these simple souls it
appeared that the Resurrection and the
Life (which was always to begin in a month
or a year) would scarcely be possible to a
handful of white ashes. Flesh which had
been through the bodies of worms, which had
been eaten by beasts, atomised by dynamite
or disintegrated by the slimes of the ocean,
could be reassembled on its bones by an
Omnipotence; but apparently that Om-
nipotence was powerless to reconstruct the
results of cremation! Thereby they foolishly
proved that they only half believed in
miracles —that they knew the Almighty’s
power to reclothe a skeleton, but doubted
His ability to reform from ash. And so it is
still. * * *
Then sentimentality—which talks of a
long, dreamless sleep in God’s acre—fails to
recognise that John Jones’s bones may be
evicted for a newer late-departed, though
John Jones has bought his grave in fee
simple; for an undertaker, like any other
tradesman, can do such things. In most
religious countries, such as the Philippines,
Christian burial is only temporary —as at
El Paco, where at intervals the Spanish
authorities throw out bones and skulls, by
the ton to make room for newer dead. Simi-
larly, in Gelsomino (Florence), the rich may
buy their graves in perpetuity, but the poor
or thrifty hire their graves for 10 or 20 or
30 years, and are thrown out at the expira-
tion of the lease. Yet the humorless people
who delight in love-making in cemeteries need
not be despoiled of the Sunday walk, the
reading of inscriptions, the passage through
the avenue of tombs, the admiration of the
wreath and the granite angel and the chubby
cherubim in trachyte, the gabbling of poetical
language by the parson for his fee of Bs. per
burial (hurried near the end as he sees the
next candidate for the Resurrection and the
Life coming slowly through the gate in a
gloomv hearse with all its funeral ravens
flapping on the top) ; nor need they miss the
idyll of the widow bringing fresh flowers . to
the departed, and preparing to take notice
of him who is just arriving. Memorial
visits to the urn might be made just as
well as to the festering grave; loving decora-
tion of the tomb of the dear ashes as of the
sepulchre of the dear corruption. The
mausolea of the departed great might, even
be erected in parks and gardens, in the .cen-
tres of the living, for to the living the ciner-
ary urn would offer no offence.
* * * *
Further, cremation is cheap. How many
widows and widowers and poor families suffer
long privations to pay exorbitant funeral
charges on the time-payment system? So
the cost of hiding the corpse makes life
harder for the survivors, while the hidden
body threatens the living with its corrup-
tion. In the interests of the poor, the grave,
with its trappings and its coffin and its
mourning coaches and its hearse with glass
sides, must go. The living are impoverished
and murdered by the dead. The earth is
overworked as a chemist. Let man help her
with a furnace. And it isn’t a fad for a
private member ; it’s a great and epoch-mak-
ing reform to be achieved by any Govern-
ment that has courage and means business.
Randolph Bedford.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lost Legions.
According to the official figures published
last week, out of the 153,000 boys of be-
tween 14 and 17 years of age who, by virtue
of the Defence Act, should be undergoing
training, only 95,000-odd are actually so em-
ployed. Apart from those who have been
declared medically unfit, 55,910 are exempt
owing to their homes being five miles. or
more from any training centre. Australia’s
provision for its own defence is far too in-
adequate to permit of the sacrifice of this
army. Some means should, therefore, be
swiftly devised, and as swiftly translated
into law, by which these youths should be
enabled to do their duty by their country.
Perhaps the soundest scheme would be to
assemble all the exempted boys under canvas
and drill them for a set period every year.
It would pay the Commonwealth a hundred-
fold to provide the whole of the cash for
their travelling and living expenses during
(say) 14 days in each 12 months.
There may come a time when the youths
thus drawn into the defence net may mean
to Australia the difference between safety
and national extinction. Incidentally, this
step would do away with an anomalous
state of things whereby J. Smith, Jun.,
who lives 4£ miles from the training area,
lias to go through with the specified number
of drills every year, or be classed as an
“inefficient” (a circumstance that imposes
on him the duty of putting in his drills, after
he has reached the age of 26), while J.
Brown, Jun., who inhabits an adjoining
street, is not called on to do any military
service' whatsoever. It is quite conceivable
that, if the position remains unchanged,
parents who for various insane reasons are
averse to having their sons trained, will de-
liberately take to frustrating the area officer
by settling outside his sphere of influence
a practice that will considerably swell the
already large number of the exempt, r ur-
thermore, the State might well make things
somewhat easier for the lads who attend
drills under difficulties. It is rough on a
youngster who has been earning a strenuous
living in a shop or on a cart all day to have
to walk three or four miles to drill in the
evening. In the case of those who live re-
mote from trams or trains, some provision
might be made for transporting them to the
training places free of charge ; or they might
be given the option of joining the annual
camp above-mentioned. It is as essential
for the welfare of the nation that the mili-
tary service should become popular (which
it can only do if it is run on equitable lines)
as it is that every available unit should be
drafted into it.
*
The False-Alarm Riot.
The “Liberal” press of N. S. Wales saw, last
week, in the Lithgow strike, what looked like
a chance to instruct the nervous, elderly-
female brand of elector in regard to the
Menace of Labor; and so, on Wednesday, the
Sydney Telegkaph came out this way :
RIOT.
VIOLENCE AT LITHGOW.
RAID ON BLAST FURNACE.
POLICE INJURED.
REFUGE IN ENGINE-ROOM.
A “violent mob” was said to have been in
“full possession” of the town, and of the whole
of the Ironworks (barring the blast furnace)
from 10 p.m. the previous night till the time
the Telegraph went to press. On Thurs-
day the S. M. Herald printed the follow-
ing :
ANARCHY.
EIGHT HOURS OF CHAOS.
RIOTS RENEWED.
THE IRONMASTER BESIEGED.
STRIKERS ARRESTED.
POLICE CHARGE THE MOB.
Also, it announced :
Lithgow is in a state of turmoil. Anything might
happen. The mob is an ugly mood once more. The
police and strikers have come into conflict, batons
have been used freely, and sore heads have resulted.
Arrests have been made.
On Friday the same paper’s scare-headings
ran :
BITTER CONFLICT.
DYNAMITE OUTRAGE.
HOSTILE DEMONSTRATION.
WAR ON WOMEN.
And, lower down, in narrating how the
reckless and bloodthirsty strikers tried to
get at the “loyalists” (presumably with
murderous intent), it printed this:—
The police stood in front of the crowd, and draw-
ing their batons barred further progress. The mob
seethed and tried to break through. Meanwhile the
loyalists made good their escape. The police, like
the rearguard of a retreating army, followed slowly
in the wake of the fugitives with batons half-drawn
ready for any emergency. The mob was in a de-
cidedly ugly humor. “They are spoiling for fight,”
said a senior officer, “and, by , they will get
it.”
At the top of the town Inspector Goulder, having
seen his charges safely housed, formed up his men
and marched towards the town. The strikers fol-
lowed, hooting. The inspector halted his squad, and
ordered the crowd to disperse. They refused.
“Scatter them,” said the chief, and the police, with
drawn truncheons, charged. The crowd fled in all
directions.
Columns of this embittered and inflammatory
stuff —the purely imaginative or Yellow
Journalese presentment of the case —were
unloaded on the public by both the morning
dailies. And then, on Saturday night, Syd-
ney Evening News —which has no labor
leanings, and is hardly the paper to neglect
a legitimate sensation —came out with the
plain, drab truth, as follows :
Superintendent Johnson/ who is in charge of the
police at Lithgow, in his official report denies that
the police either drew or attempted to draw their
batons. There had been some interference, he says,
with the houses of free laborers, but not with any
grievous effect. The, worst was the discharge of a
dynamite cap, which, the superintendent writes, did
no further damage than to crack a pane of glass.
People of an analytical cast of mind—all
those, in fact, with sufficient intelligence to
understand that a mob of genuine rioters and
anarchists could not be in “full possession”
of any town, for one hour, much less eight,
without murder, robbery, outrage and in-
finite damage being done —appreciated from
the start that 99 per cent, of the “Liberal”
yarns concerning the Lithgow chaos were
untrue. But these crude tarradiddles are
not designed for that class. It seems that
half a dozen mischievous yahoos wrecked an
unguarded motor-car; that some boys threw
a number of articles belonging to “free la-
borers” into a dam; and that an unspecified
practical joker cracked a pane of glass by
exploding a dynamite cap. On these hap-
penings—little worse, when all is said and
done, than the offences that are perpetrated
during a “rag” at any well-conducted British
University—the dailies built up a story
which caused one of the visiting operatic
stars to say: “If the Lithgow strike had
occurred in South America it would have
been called a revolution.” And, of course,
if the affair had been anything like it was
represented to be in the “Liberal” press,
it would have been a revolution. The fact
that local Labor troubles never are what
they seem in the “Liberal” press is one of
the* strongest reasons why Labor needs a
daily of its own.
+
A Bonfire Under a Melting Pot.
The taking of the recent census has brought
in its train a call for a re-adjustment of elec-
toral boundaries in Australia. Queensland
lias already refixed its electoral subdivisions ;
N. S. Wales is about to do the same ; and the
Australian Parliament proposes to follow
suit. This new alignment of a few of the
electoral frontiers calls attention to the
whole matter of legislative and adminis-
trative partition. If a large map of Aus-
tralia were taken to-day, and the whole of'
the various boundaries were shown, and the
authority or purpose for which each of them
was set up were plainly stated thereon, the
result would look like the work of a de-
mented'centipede dipped in ink, and fleeing
from the horrors of the Inquisition: For
legislative purposes there are the Federal
electorates, State Upper and Lower House
electorates, and the wards and ridings of the
various councils and shires. For land pur-
poses there are divisions, counties, districts
and parishes; then there are police, postal
and defence districts, and, to boot, a series
of lines marking out the sphere of a host of
sheep boards, cattle boards, rabbit boards,
wild-dog boards, and the like. (This is say-
ing nothing of the fact that every sect has
divided up the country privately into allot-
ments for the supply of spiritual grass to its
flocks.) So much for the map—but it is the
citizen who counts. He is in three or four
electoral divisions whose boundaries do not
coincide. This entads three or four roll
collections. When money is badly wanted
for defence, closer settlement and decent
footpaths, the saving of money that one roll
collection would mean is worth making.
Take Smith, for instance. He is on the
Brown ward roll of the Robinson muni-
cipality ; on the Jones State electoral roll
for the Lower House, and on the Jenkins roll
for the Upper House. When the Federal
roll is collected, he is in Brigg’s electorate
for the Reps., and he votes for the Senate as
an inhabitant of the State of Jobson. His
letters go to Simpson post office, his chil-
dren to Ciiolmondeley school; and he regis-
ters his dog in Noiieolk-Howaro police dis-
trict. His house or farm is in Plantagenet
county, in Percy division, and the parish of
Jlezekiaii. His boys are trainees in Bill-
Jim military division; and the Jack Board,
the Tom Trust and the Harry something
else either tax him or register him, or collect
him. The whole matter calls for a good roar-
ing bonfire, on top of which a decent-sized
melting-pot should be placed. A few highly-
qualified surveyors, a few intelligent under-
secretaries, and a few statisticians, with a
Federal Judge as president, should be put on
the job. Halfpenny municipalities, two-
penny parliaments, and a job lot of nuis-
ances would serve for the bonfire, and the
rest might go into the pot. If the experts
cared to put the old measures of weight,
capacity and value in the fire, and the metric
system in the pot, all the better. The result
should be a scientific partition of Australia
for all legislative, administrative and other
purposes. The present jumble is a satire on
the public intelligence.
———♦
The Wowser and His Figures.
The Wowser tribe in Victoria is working
hard to get “Scripture-reading in State,
schools” made into a war-cry for the coming
State elections. Certainly some elections
have been fought on a very poor war-cry;
but, so far as this paper’s recollection goes,
nothing so utterly rotten as this has ever
carried a party to victory. At present, any
accredited preacher can enter any State
school in Victoria and teach the Scripture
to all the youngsters whose parents do not
object. In a fair number of schools this is
done ; and there is such a plenitude of rever-
ends that it is possible in every school. But
the parsons want the work taken off their
hands and given to the school-teachers, who
have more than enough to do already. Also,
the teachers are of many religions and, pos-
sibly, of many different kinds of lack of re-
ligion, and in numerous cases object to
Bible-teaching. The Wowser folk have been
trying to show that “the people” want their
system. A few years ago they got a refer-
endum held on the question; and the result
was a huge majority for the main-
tenance of the present secular arrangement.
During the past few months the Scripture-
school push has been holding little referen-
dums of its own, and it has produced some
astonishing figures. In every case the votes
showed a majority of something like five to
one in favor of Scripture-reading in the
schools. But in the middle of their cam-
paign, a real election happened to follow a
Wowser election. This was at Bendigo East.
The Wowsers had published the result of
their poll, which showed that well over 2000
electors would support the candidate who
favored their views. Then came the real
test, and the Bible candidate went down, and
the unfindableness of the 2000 was something-
terrible. So the average candidate is now
looking sideways at the whole business; and
Parson Nicholson, who is conducting the
Scripture campaign, has had to publish nine
different reasons why the Bendigo East elec-
tion went wrong. But the tenth reason —that
the parsonical referendum wasn’t worth the
paper it was written on —quite escaped Mr.
Nicholson.
*
The Tired Department of a Tired Minister.
The annual report of Victoria’s Acting-In-
spector-General of Prisons for last year is
a sloppy document, which gives a quantity
of undigested figures, and very little else.
The State’s daily average number of prison- -
ers has decreased during the year from 868 to
855, but the net cost of keeping them has
gone up from £37 9s. to £4O 18s. 3d. per
head. As the gross cost last year was
£5B 4s. Bd. per nead, it follows that these
855 healthy adults, employed at “hard
labor,” have each contributed the large sum
of £l7 6s. sd. during the year towards their
keep, or 6s. Bd. a week! About this lament-
able result of so much alleged toil, the In-
spector-General says nothing. Numbers of
prisoners are employed at the making of
boots, mats, blankets and wire-netting, and as
these articles are either sold at market
prices, or used by other departments and
credited at trade values, it would ap-
pear as though there is shockingly
bad organisation somewhere. And the
same sort of mess is threatened in
connection with the indeterminate sentences
experiment. The administration realises
that something is wrong somewhere, and re-
commends that the system be applied only
to persons whose previous sentences aggre-
gate 10, or at least seven, years. But that
shows that the administration totally mis-
understands the policy of indeterminate sen-
tences. The principle is that the youth who
has made a few false steps, and shows signs
of continuing in the downward track, or the
confirmed criminal who has no intention of
living except by crime, may be taken, in ;
hand, taught a trade, given habits of self-
respect and self-reliance, and discharged as
soon as there is a reasonable prospect of his.
continuing' straight—and no sooner. There
are pickpockets and spielers in Melbourne,
notoriously “living on the game,” whose
half-dozen or so convictions wouldn’t total
three yearsyet, apparently, the Inspector-
General would have them remain at large
till thev are old men before attempting to
reform them. The trouble with Victoria’s
penal system is that no Minister will tackle
reform in earnest. Bent started the wire-
netting industry at Pentridge, and that
ended his effort. Murray has exhaustion ir
Bonnie Dundee
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dundee is a town of only one industry. Its pre-
sent wealth is entirely dependent upon jute. . Nowa-
days, with the increased Eastern competition and
the consequent cutting of wages, women are the
principal workers, although men are largely em-
ployed at a low wage. This movement, displacing
men and introducing women into the mills and fac-
tories, is still going on, and is largely responsible
for the condition of the homes. Matters would be
worse than they are, and greater poverty would exist,
were it not for the fact that the cream of the youth-
ful population is annually skimmed off for Canada
and the United States. . . . The children in Dundee
seem to be worse off than even the children in the
crowded slums of London. The babies of three and
four were solemn and white-faced. During my
whole stay in Dundee I never saw any child playing.
... I asked a nurse about the extraordinary con-
trast between the magnificent new babies and the
stunted children. She said that the babies began
to go off the day the mother went to work at
the mill.— Violet Cecil, in an article, “Some Scot-
tish Homes,” National Review, June, 1911.
To his fiends in Gehenna Beelzebub said :
“Close the portals of Slieol —our business is
We are beaten,” quoth Satan, “and Ilell
cannot gee ;
So it’s up with the shutters —we’re licked
by Dundee!
They've filled up their mills,” quoth Satan
again—
“ They've filled them with tvomen and
underpaid men.
So fasten the shutters, let sinners go free;
For they're damning the babies in Bonnie
Dundee!
“Gehenna’s discounted, Jehannum is done
By jute from Calcutta where sweat’s swift
to run,”
Said the Devil : “They torture small chil-
dren of three.
Our Hell is a failure, compared with Dun-
dee !”
Each fiend he rose up, and from furnace
and pan
Freed the damned by the dozen—but bach-
wards they ran.
They yelled in the distance: “Towards
Hell let us flee,
Since we've tasted damnation in Bonnie
Dundee!”
“There are creeds above Cobden’s,” quoth
Satan, “and wights
Whose babies have mothers, and mothers
have rights;
But this Joss,” said the Devil, “seems mon-
strous to me—
Both mothers and babies are damned in
Dundee!”
* Freetrade like an idol uprose o'er the
clan;
Quoth the fiends unto Satan, “let's cheer
if we can.”
“Pm dumb,” said the Devil — “no cheering
for me;
Hell’s cheerful compared with this Bonnie
Dundee!
“Then away to the grills—are the furnaces
crammed ?
We must face competition, these days, for
the damned!
Hooray!” said the Devil, “here’s a pale
refugee
Brings her babe from the tortures of Bonnie
Dundee!
They’ve strangled rejoicing, and play’s un-
der ban —
Across the Atlantic youth flees when it
can,”
Said the Devil, “Hell's open —this Joss
sickens me;
Here's Hell as a refuge from Bonnie
Dundee!”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


! Write for particulars
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George
Sydney.
of the
electric
Street,
£INEMATOGRAPH EXHIBITORS!
V/ and all who use Cinematograph Machines
and Accessories, should call or write to
HARRINGTONS Ltd.
SSgSfS™
n *^ e,a '^ e > Auckland and Wellington, N.Z.
Our Film Hire Library is the Largest in Australasia.
The Oil Engine
You Need.
We have the exact Oil Engine you need ;
the right power; the right kind; the right
price.
“INVINCIBLE” Engines, made at Wool-
wich Dock, Sydney, are as good as the best
made anywhere, and THEY ARE GUARAN-
TEED FOR FIVE YEARS. Our stationary
engines are as good as our Marine types, and
CARRY THE SAME GUARANTEE.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.
WORKS ; Woolwich.
CITY SHOWROOM : 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Pure*
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
ail aggravated form, and the Acting-Inspector-
General, who drew up the report, is the per-
manent Under-Secretary of a public depart-
ment, and merely gives his spare half-hours
io the penal branch. The proper adminis-
tration of the indeterminate sentence policy,
and the reorganisation of the whole penal
system so as to make it at least self-support-
ing, demand (1) money; (2) the whole
time, brains and energy of a competent man
of the world, not necessarily a penal “ex-
pert.”
The Habit of Being of the Same Opinion
as Wade.
These are times when the ordinary citizen
is almost tempted to wonder if Premier
McGowen, of N.S.W., is a of any
serious value. A plain and honest, but
rather dull man is James McGowen, and
he is a confirmed dweller in a rut. He is
strangely Tory in many things, and in some
things he treats his own party programme
with a contempt that no old squatter could
excel. His great ambition seems to be to
keep his following as purely a pick
and_ shovel party as possible, and to avoid
having any policy of his own on afEairs that
are not exclusively pick and shovel. Where
it is possible, as in the case of the Australian
capital question, to be parochial and anti-
Australian, it is his general principle to
stick as closely as circumstances admit to
the uncouth Gregory Wade. There is a
limitation-of-borrowing plank in the Labor
platform, apparently placed there as a piece
of ornamental hypocrisy, for ex-Minister
Nielsen was allowed to throw mud at this
alleged Labor ideal from the first day of
its adoption, and McGowen himself prefers
his enemies’ habit of gigantic loan-mongering
to his own professed doctrine of economy.
In this matter he treats his own alleged prin-
ciples as if they were dirt, and shows him-
self almost the maddest borrower on the
State s records. Also, there is professedly
\ decentralisation principle of some sort on
the Labor bill of fare, and on this subject
Premier McGowen spoke as follows last
Monday (the reports in the two morning
papers were identical, so there is some rea-
son to suppose that they were for once
threatened with accuracy :
We ought to have nine-tenths of our people in
the interior, growing, or making, or obtaining our
products, and the other tenth in the ONE centre,
handling those products.
After that, and despite the remark about
having nine-tenths of the people in the in-
terior, Premier McGowen (unless he can
explain himself away) had better retire
from the decentralisation business. He still
apparently sticks to the policy of dragging
all the State’s business to 4< ONE centre,”
and that is just the policy which makes it
impossible to get nine-tenths of the popula-
tion into the interior. The reason is that it
burdens a huge proportion of the interior,
including some of the most fertile sections
thereof, with so many superfluous and costly
leagues or scores of leagues of railway car-
riage that it hardly pays to live in these
places, despite their fertility. McGowen
apparently forgets his theoretical belief in
decentralisation, just as he has quite for-
gotten his theoretical belief in economy, so
hereabouts he throws in his lot again with
\Vade in the good old familiar fashion.
Apparently, the habit of throwing in his lot
with Wade has become so fixed as to be
almost incurable.
. . . ♦
IT is time some one took Henley, M.L A
for Burwood (N.S.W.), firmly but kindly
by the coat-tail and urged him not to use
superlatives so freely. Just because he and
his push don t like to see Willis in the
chair he lias been splashing round like the
teet ot an elephant in deep mud, and holler-
mg re the great betrayal” and “an out-
raged Parliament,” and uttering verbal sky-
scrapers like this :
There is no parallel to this that can be cited in
any free country. The sacred rights of hon. mem-
bers have been thrown down, trampled on, and de-
Assembly N * Way unheard of in anl J deliberative
England used to be called a free country, yet
the great Oliver Cromwell had a way of
not allowing any selected member to sit
unless he first received Cromwell’s own
certificate, and no elected member got the
certificate unless he promised to think the
same way as Cromwell. Once at least the
Protector simplified matters by electing the
whole Parliament himself, and it was his
habit to get tired even of the certificated
House of Commons, and to chase it away a
few weeks after it met. When there are
stacks of precedents like that to refer to
Henley s language is either shameful ignor-
ance or premeditated hysterics. Superla-
tives are the last refuge of an inferior class
of mind. Witness the case of the old-time
Queensland editor who started his foaming
leader in this wise:—
An outrage, which for heartless cruelty has no
“? history, not ev«i in the bloodstained
days of Nero was witnessed in the drill-shed last
night, when B company of the Caneville volunteers
was disbanded for inefficiency. This unexampled
crime, etc., etc.
——
A long, cynical column in the Argus is
devoted to an exposure of German “Imperial-
ism in Morocco —an “Imperialism” which
amounts to a Government-backed grab at the
iron country by the Mannesmann group of
noumasters. The relation between cominer-
cial greed and imperial expansion is admir-
ably satirised. But when Britain does the
same thing, how silent are the “Imperial”
newspapers! The Bulletin cannot recall
any similar article in the Argus at the time
when the goldbugs in the Transvaal paid for
the absolutely unpardonable Jamieson raid
Whatever N.S.W. Speaker Willis may be
as a politician, his experience ! arnong the
bigger-inen in the Federal Parliament has
grven him a higher ideal of the Speaker’s
office —as well as a better standard of
Parliamentary conduct. As soon as he took
the chair, the Insulter-General, the Minister
tor Interjections and the Larrikin-in-Ordin-
ary of the Wade party started out to bait
him ; yet inside an hour he had the three
tame enough to eat out of his hand. The
Parliamentary roughs snigger at his quiet
peremptory, schoolmastery calls, but they are
careful to obey first and do the sniggering
afterwards. s
The Morocco argument waxes angry again.
Germany’s might urges her to aggression
Opposing might alone makes her susceptible
to peaceful emotions. Hence political wis-
dom best expresses itself in might. And
might, as the friend of justice and peaceful
progress, is the expression of wisdom in-
spired by that genial spirit of peace, T).O L
the Whisky of the Wise.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Melba Opera Co.
Royal “ A Waltz Dream.”
Criterion “TRe Witness for the Defence.”
Adklpui “ The Angel of His Dreams.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace “The. Christian.”
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Tvitic Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.’
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Clement L. Wragge.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Speckled Band.”
Her Majesty’s “Hamlet.”
Koyal “The Chocolate Soldier.”
King's “ The French Spy.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
♦ 'V
“Trovatore” got the first look-in, with loud
applause, at Rome, in January, 1853;
“Traviata” got the boot at its first appear-
ance in Venice a few weeks later, being
nearly killed by the Violetta of fat Mrs.
Gonatelli, at that time one of the stoutest
women on or off the boards. When the
doctor warbled to the huge Violetta, that her
hours were numbered because she was
wasting away in consumption, the riotous
laughter of the audience extinguished the
mu .® lc - “ Is th e fault mine or the actors’?”
wailed Verdi next day. Tenor Graziani, the
Alfredo of that first fatal cast, croaked like
a frog in consequence of a heavy cold ; and
Rantone v aresi, offended at singing in a
part he considered* top small, was too indiffer-
ent to save his duet with fleshy Violetta.
It was the actors’ fault. “Traviata” tri-
umphed everywhere else, and Christine Nils-
son, who made her debut in Paris in 1864,
as the unhappy heroine, set the city in a
blaze with the charm of its vocal color.
“LA TRAVIATA,” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
The Bad Girl of
the (Grand
Opera) Family, —
Alfredo ( Me Car-
mack) tunefully
seams Ike Bad
Girl Fie let la
( Melius) to
the satis/ac-
tion of kit
father (Scandiani).
Melba showed faultless judgment in choos-
ing the richly-trimmed music of Violetta’s
impassioned part for her first appear-
ance in the current season of grand
opera in Sydney. Six hundred sove-
reigns worth of silver-plate glittered on
the tables of Violetta’s banquet hall when
the Australian Nightingale sent her first
ripple of song across the footlights with
priceless technique. The elixir of youth is
bottled up in that marvellous voice-box. The
velvety roundness of tone is about 18 years
of age—a precocious 18, with the experience
of 20 years added on to give it ballast.
Melba made the sensation of the night, by
walking rapidly across the stage, trilling in
ascending scale as she went off, and disap-
pearing in the region of a silvery top note.
The mere canary stands still on its perch
to give its vocal somersaults a chance. Only
the skylark can beat its wings and send an
ecstasy of song into the heavens at the same
moment. In “Traviata,” Melba’s histrionic
art is only second to her faultless voice pro-
duction. John McCormack shakes a rich,
lyric tenor, and has the added charms of
youth, good looks and a manly stage pres-
ence. A young artist—John isn’t more than
-?“T. e 1S already getting huge dividends out
of his gold-mine throat. Rosina Buckman,
too florid in style for the concert platform,
finds her feet in grand opera. As Flora, the
-A.ustrjlli3.il held her own in the foreign
aviary. Baritone Scandiani made the com-
paratively small part of Germont a triumph.
Magnificently staged, and dressed in gor-
geous plumage, “La Traviata” is unlikely to
be eclipsed by any other production during
the opera season at Her Majesty’s, for Verdi
was master of the Italian school of composi-
tion in its most popular style, and Melba is
the greatest exponent of the Italian art of
musical decoration.
* * * *
“Faust” followed “Traviata.” The former
introduced the second prima-donna, the
fair, handsome Russian, Korolewicz-
Wayda—of course in the role of
Marguerite. She did not lay an in-
stantaneous hold upon her crowded audi-
ence, and the ease of her singing method
seemed to be carried a shade too far; but
she developed the tragic part with such
dramatic power, and the high notes of her
voice were so wonderfully pure, that she had
that section of Pitt-street at her mercy lon°-
before she came to a sudden end in her straw
manger at 11.5, or thereabouts. John
McCormack was the tenor, who, after the
manner of stage tenors, was the cause of
the impressionable lady’s passionate joy and
fatal distress. Again and again he roused
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Is the most wonderful remedy ever discovered for
Coughs and Colds. It will relieve von when all
others have failed. Is. 6d. and 3s.*
the audience to very real enthusiasm —-the
enthusiasm that won’t wait for the orchestra
to finish its music, but bursts out of bounds
at the singer’s last note. The flood was par-
ticularly impetuous after the ardent “Salve
Dimora” solo. With all his opportunities
Mephistopheles can very rarely have pro-
vided himself with a better voice than
Edmund Burke supplies—a fine, ringing,
sonorous bass, full of expression; and in the
only light touch in the piece, where Meph.
plucks the mature gooseberry that threatens
to spoil his plot to put Marguerite at the
mercy of the rejuvenated Faust, he showed
also a rich, sardonic humor. Miss Voluntas-
Ranzenberg, Rosina Buckman, and Zanelli
(as Valentin, the distraught brother of Mar-
guerite), were other highly-satisfactory mem-
bers of the cast. Angelini was the con-
ductor, an anguished Angelini when the
chorus wasn’t where it should have been,
and the brass band that played the soldiers
on for their great chorus got away from the
orchestra. But when the generous Mar-
guerite-Wayda, after being herself called
forward half a dozen times, finally brought
Angelini for her bowing companion, the en-
thusiasm probably convinced the gentleman
with the extraordinary forehead of hair that
he had anyhow the sympathy of an audience
that refused to remember the blot in the
presence of a great picture.
#* * *
Miss Ethel Irving is still playing Stella
Ballantyne in “The Witness for the Defence,”
at Sydney Criterion; and her stage-husband
will continue to die a well-merited death till
further notice.
** * *
“The Waltz Dream” was revived at Syd-
ney Theatre Royal on Saturday night, with
many changes in the cast of the melodious
comedy of erotics. Miss Olive Godwin sings
Fanny Dango’s old part of Franzi, and sings
it well, but dances it indifferently. Reginald
Roberts is as tuneful and strenuous as ever
as Niki; and Miss Florence Young (Princess
Helena) looks regal and sings superbly. On
the other hand, the low comedy business of
Langford Kirby (Count Lothar) and Victor
Prince (Joachim) is somewhat tiresome. For
one thing, there is too much of it; for an-
other, the comedians work too hard —laugh-
ter-making being one of the few things on
earth that is not advantaged by dogged
effort. Frank Green and Max Baur do
sound work, and Miss Dorothy Brunton
makes a delightful little band-girl.
** * *
“The Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe”
is still making the rounds of Sydney suburbs
under the alternate management of “Father”
Liddiard and treasurer Coates. They take
week about, and while one is keeping back
the rush of big audiences that want to
crowd into comparatively small halls, the
other is recovering from the bruises. Coates
reports that at Ashfield the movable ticket-
office and two large, fresh policemen were
overturned in the first rush after the doors
were opened. The policemen must have
been stamped underground out of sight, be-
cause he never saw them again, although he
looked in the nearest bar.
** * *
On Friday night at the Palace (Sydney)
William Anderson discharged “The Man
from Outback” without a caution, and on
Saturday gave “The Christian” a job to
steer Glory Quayle from all the beautiful
and joyous things in life that the Wowser
hates. The packed house passed a unani-
mous vote at the end of each act, and at
other frequent intervals, to the 'effect that
the said Christian deserved his billet, and
ought to be kept at it as long as possible
for the benefit of Wowsers and pagans in
general, and the box office in particular.
Roy Redgrave’s dramatisation of Hall Caine’s
story differs in several respects from former
stagings of the piece in Sydney, and is un-
doubtedly an improvement on most; and his
own long familiarity with the part of John
Storm enables him to hold that combination
of emotions from slopping over. Eugenie
Duggan, too, as Glory, restrained that young
hotblood from galloping at the wrong' turn,
and gave a brainy interpretation of the “kiss-
me-John” episode. Edmund Duggan, as
Father Enderby, and Bert Bailey, as Arch-
deacon Wealthy, could be hired out to any
short-handed Gospel factory as the genuine
article. Indeed, The Bulletin regrets that
the election of the new Bishop of Bathurst
was over before it had a chance of seeing
Bailey as the archdeacon. “The Christian”
may be seen by parsons, pickpockets, philan-
thropists, students of human nature, semi-
drunks, sports, choir-girls, “goofi-night” girls
and even politicians till further notice.
Clement Wragge, the tall, spare lecturer,
thumped the butt-end of his wand on the
darkened stage of Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall,
and the man at the lantern threw a picture
of a heavy snowstorm on the wall. At least,
it looked like a snowstorm; in reality, it
was a photograph of the heavens taken
through the giant telescope of the Lick Ob-
servatory. All the flakes were stars —un-
known worlds that glimmer away in Space
beyond the reach of the feeble human eye
that can’t even read the account of the
tragedy in the Evening Bloodstain unless
it wears spectacles. A lurid slide which
seemed to represent a blowfly in a blazing
warehouse turned out to represent a com-
parison of this earth and the blazing plains
of hydrogen in the sun. Two or three whirls
of smoky vapor were sun spots—terrific-
storms which, according to Inclement, have
a chest measurement of a few hundred thou-
sand miles, and send out waves which dis-
organise the telegraph services, and irritate
the volcanoes on this suspended and heavily-
taxed pill of ours. Wragge himself is 'a
cataract of tremendous facts and theories:
and most of his time he is standing on tiptoe,
pointing up-up-up into Space with a long, thin
arm, and talking reverently in a sharp, high
key of that snowstorm of which we form
one flake. Then suddenly he drops his voice;
the shower of snowflake world is pushed
aside; and a picture bouquet of flowers or
a dish of fruit is presented to the stunned
listeners as the simple, every-day gift of the
magnificent, blazing old sun—whom he
classes lightly as a second-class sky-cruiser.
The lecturer warms up his cold science nicely
on the stove of enthusiasm, and serves it
highly colored. A stimulating and unusual
entertainment which deals with immense
things, and should be attended by all State
I nghters, mayors and aldermen for the good
of their souls.
** * *
Nick Carter, the Detective, will be placed
on the retired list to-morrow (Friday). He
has been in the service of George Marlow for
several weeks, and has done his duty to the
splendidly. George de Gray’s
‘ Angel of His Dreams” will alight on the
Adelphi stage on Saturday.
m* * *
McLallen and Carson, a mixed team of
roller-skaters with a smart act, are the
latest people to show their card at Sydney
Tivoli. McLallen, the male member, does
a clog dance on his rollers while perched on
top of a stage windmill; but he doesn’t take
it so seriously as a middle-aged performer
who appeared some years ago. That artist
clacked slowly and at great length on the
slate roof oTf a small Eiffel tower, wearing
a heavy black moustache, a Lord Fauntleroy
costume, and the proud smile of a conquering
hero. The “Dapper Dandy,” Louie Tracy,
is still imitating naval and military gaits with
great fidelity to life, and singing a couple of
gallery-catching songs in between ; Clarke and
Mostol (comedians and dancers), Alf Holt
(mimic), Sydney Bach (entertainer), and
Carlton Max (ventriloquist) share a heap of
applause between them; and Fred Bluett is
doing good business with a new song.
** * *
The ice at the Glaciarium has been broken,
and the fragments have probably been sent
to the Japanese expedition which is looking
for the South Pole under the lee of Sydney’s
South Head fort; and on Saturday night
West’s pictures move on from the Princess
Theatre, and return to their old home.
“Enoch Arden” is at present taking a - spell
at West’s, after his long travels; and
Napoleon is back on the Isle of Elba. On
Saturday “The Circus Girl,” a pictorial
drama, will begin flicking for a short season ;
and there will be a full programme of mis-
cellaneous films besides.
** * *
The scissoring of the plot takes a little
of the shine off “Enoch Arden,” now show-
ing at Spencer’s Lyceum. But what is left
is excellent, and the effect is improved by
the recitation of excerpts, Lawrence Camp-
bell supplying the necessary voice and other
accessories. The departure of Enoch, his
stay on the island, and his return are ad-
mirably pictured. The programme also in-
cludes “Yachting at Cowes”; a good animal
picture, “The Circus Stowaway”; several
comic films that raise the loud laugh, or the
gentle giggle ; and the usual dashes through
various foreign parts where the dirt, vege-
tables, liquid, etc., are more artistically ar-
ranged than usual.
** * *
The National Amphitheatre treated itself
last week to a new acrobatic team, “Les
Petits Totos.” They do the usual business,
but it is understood to take on an aclded
charm by reason of the diminutiveness of the
performers. Jordan and Harvey, and
Jules Garrison and his Roman maids are
still on deck; likewise the First Part and a
perfect galaxy of brief-frocked female talent.
** X *
Melbourne Royal has been packed with
hungry sightseers since “The Chocolate Sol-
dier” came to pass, but the applause is
peculiarly patchy at this Agricultural Show
time. A translated-German travesty of
“Arms and the Man,” in a high-class musi-
cal setting, is hardly the sort of comic opera
that gives huge delight to the dairying in-
dustry, or tempts “annuals” from the Mallee


STECK.
THE STECK BOUDOIR GRAND is deservedly a
favorite. To encompass the tonal beauty and
sonority of a Grand Piano in a space scarcely
larger than that occupied by an Upright is indeed
an achievement.
Measuring but sft. s 7in. in length, it renders a
Grand Piano of the highest character available, even
for rooms of limited size.
The STECK, njore than any other piano, possesses
a rich mellowness of tone, a sympathetic singing
quality, Which makes it not only the ideal instru-
ment for the great artist in concert, but also the
best piano for the home.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
252 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 QUEEN STREEI,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q.N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
-
New Shipments of STECKS monthly
In Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut,
Rosewood, Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebon /
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
* Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
to call again and note the orchestration. Any
night this week one may see bucolic groups
of anti-Labor parties sitting silently amazed
at “The Chocolate Soldier” in general, yet
deeply unmoved by the grand finale of the
second act, which rouses town “tugs” to enthu-
siasm. Strauss’s work is for the many who
will go twice, or oftener, to hear it —not for
the others who never want to see anything
more than once, unless the principal funny
man makes a special appeal to their under-
standing by rolling downstairs and rubbing
his seat of humor. Nevertheless, the per-
formance continues to make good. Miss
Winifred O’Connor warms to her prima-
donna duties, and in her duets and dialogues
with Leslie Gaze her daintiness harmonises
admirably with the jauntiness of that spry
lieutenant. The scene at the breakfast table
in Popoff’s garden is neatly played by every-
body concerned. The ebullitions of the
chorus are big events, and the story arrives
at a climax of domestic interest when Bu-
merli, who started to woo Nadina in her
sleeping apartment, undertakes to dower his
promised bride with countless blankets,
sheets, counterpanes and costly “nighties.”
It ought to De advertised as the Beautiful
Bedroom Opera.
* * * *
Maybe the unimposing outfit of the royal
Court of Denmark was partly accountable
for the slump in attendance at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) after the first night of “Hamlet.”
The corpse-laden tragedy has been so much
better staged in the past. This revival is
a feast for neither the eye nor the ear, and
what is best in the performance is of least
importance to the largest section of Shaks-
peare’s professed admirers. A magnetic
Hamlet would be excused for lapsing into
incoherency in his long, hysterical rants or
sober-spoken meditations ; but H. B. Irving
has no personal magnetism. He is but an
intermittent reflection of his father’s
individuality, with an occasional echo
of his father’s vocal mannerisms.
Yet in his quiet conversational scenes,
H. B. Irving has great moments. His
dealing with Horatio and Marcellus, after
the Ghost has left him, almost convinces one
of the genuineness of that self-admiring
spectre. In nis talks with Itosencrantz and
Guildenstern the actor becomes the embodi-
ment of Hamlet. On tne other hand, his
“Get thee to a nunnery” outbreak is tire-
some. He weakens as he grows louder, and
his elocution is nearly always bad. For
that matter, the Player Queen —Miss Irene
Browne —speaks and acts her lines better
than anybody else in Denmark, bar Polonius,
whose virtues of diction are strictly Wowser-
like, anyhow. Horatio is insipid, the King
and Queen are uninteresting people, who
show no signs of animation whilst Ophelia
is displaying her madness, and the page,
Osric, needs only a bunch or two of ribbons
to make him pass for Barnaby Rudge. Also,
the ladies of the Court are pathetic in their
cheap finery and demeanor. Viewing it as
a whole, the dismal tragedy does not appear
to this commentator to be well done, nor
half well done. It is worth considering, be-
cause of the gleams of excellence in Irving’s
interpretation of the name part, but popu-
larity wants cause more various than this —
as the Bard might have said.
** * *
“The Speckled Band,” which came on
from Adelaide last week, unwound itself at
the Princess’s on Saturday, and showed all
the successful qualities of the second-rater.
The most vital character is the murder-
planner, who sends a snake to do the job
that less resourceful people do with a pinch
of lead or a grain or so of poison ; and in
Gaston Mervale’s hands this gentleman is a
devil to delight the morbid and appal the
meek. Mervale no doubt overdoes it; never-
theless, his method of corroborating speech
with eloquent hands is often effective and
picturesque. In Rodgers, the butler,_ Athol-
wood presents another and a peevish old
Jaikes; W. Desmond’s Sherlock Holmes has
little personality; and Miss Dix’s portrait
of Enid Stonor suffers a good deal in the
same way.
** * *
“The French Spy”—a Franco-Russian
bellodrama of Cockney parentage —will keep
the Andersonian oof-pot boiling at the King’s
for one more week. It grows depressing
towards the close, when Miss Ross, having
blinded her eyes to keep them from spying
any further, wanders around Paris in charge
of an Irish fiddler, who retires from observa-
tion before starting to play a jig. Luckily,
Baker, from the British Embassy, saves the
poor blind girl’s Honor, which was threat-
ened by a Russian noble during the fiddler’s
absence. But the worst might have befallen
her if Baker had not previously disguised
himself as a holy friar, in order to unnerve
the hated Muscovite. This seems to pave
the way to a happy ending, for the fiddler is
left at liberty to marry a bright young
music-hall maiden (Miss Rae Cooper) with
a sympathetic speaking voice and a figure
that —In tights—amounts to a triumph of
Nature assisted by cotton-wool.
#* * *
Dolores —with her versatile vocal art, her
sweetest smile, and her voice in fine condi-
tion —reappeared at the Tow r n Hall last
Saturday. Two more recitals were fixed for
Monday and Wednesday of this week, and,
presumably, Melbourne will not let her
escape until everybody who heard her of
yore has renewed the delightful experience.
Her programme on included one
familiar operatic number —“Casta Diva
and a wide assortment of the songs she sings
in an unrivalled style.
* * *
Amy Castles will give two farewell con-
certs at the Town Hall before returning to
London, and Saturday (16th) is the date
mentioned for the first of them.
#* * *
William Anderson is getting together an-
other co., to be headed by that clever Aus-
tralian actor, Harry Roberts. It will com-
mence operations at the Kings Theatre,
Melbourne, on September lb, with StrucK
Oil Maggie Moore will play her old part,
and Johnny Forde will once more be Deacon
Skinner.
*# * *
New arrivals at the Opera House last
Saturday were the pretty Saxony sisters,
who come late in the year with their Apache
dance; and Victor Martin, described as a
juggler of note. Prince is back with his
line concertina, and other people happen as
before. Clarke and Hamilton are said to be
in their last week. Their turn is always
the same, and measures 40min. in length, so
the last week of it is not coming too soon.
** * *
There are still some places in Melbourne
where an irresponsible policeman might lire
his revolver without hitting a picture
theatre, but neglected fields for enterprise
are being captured every month. Ihis week
two new picturies are spreading their screens
to catch the public eye. The new Lyric at
Prahran has produced an offspring m the
newer Lyric at Brunswick, and the Amal-
gamated Pictures Ltd. has opened a photo,
playhouse at Fitzroy. There seems to be a
time coming when every street will have its
own flickergraphic establishment, and each
of them will be positively the best.
** * *
Spencer’s star attraction in Melbourne
last Saturday was “Koval England, the
film that narrates depressing events in
Britain’s past, and, taken altogether is
about as dull as a Sabbath meal. in a. VVow-
ser family. “The Smile of a Child is more
interesting, for it depicts Vice, in the shape
of a naughty Prince, chasing Virtue, in the
guise of a peasant lady. Also, Shanghai has
up-to-date interest; it. submits . to notice
some samples of uhina in all their dirt and
inferiority.
“THE CHOCO-
LATE SOL-
DIER,” AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Neel Fleming as
Alexius Spiridoff,
the Great Hero.
The Literary Theatre in Adelaide is grow-
ing more “popular” in its choice of plays.
“The Earth,” for instance, its latest selec-
tion, was announced as the opening piece for
N’York’s sumptuous new playhouse last
month. J. B. Fagan is the author, and he
has built up a romance on politics and
the press. Felix Janion (who started life as
Jahnsen or thereabouts) owns about two-
thirds of the newspapers in Britain, and the
widely-read Earth in particular. He re-
gards himself as a public power for good.
Trevena, a Cabinet Minister, thinks this
domination a public danger. Both men are
allowed to put their view fairly and fully—
mostly over a cigar. The end of it, of course,
is the triumph of (easy) Virtue, and a final
suggestion that some day the country will
resent being taught what to think,' and be-
lieve, and do, by a handful of rich newspaper
owners. Miss Jean Robertson, as a reckless
countess, did the best work she has yet
shown. Douglas Walsh and Wilfrid Neill,
masterly amateurs both, “held” their audi-
ences; and, in a long cast, the only other
chances went to George Whittle, as the
cheerful subordinate who uses the gimlet.
* * * *
Other first-in-Australia shows in Ade-
laide are supplied by A. R. Shepard, who
essays to make the King s a rival to the
Tivoli, and gets his artists straight off the
mail-boat. The Jtoyal is doing its best to
crowd on to its small stage the great scenic
effects of “The Whip,” railway smash, race-
course, and all. At the Tivoli, Harris and
Vernon put in some moderate singing, tair
talking and superb dancing; Francis and
Alfred are delightful comedy-jugglers, and
Arthur Croxon, with a bagful of tricks,
scores most heavily with a falsetto voice-
production. Alcide Capitaine and the Binns
pair (one of these is a fine actor) are near
the end of their stay. West’s Wondergraph
and the Empire have a new competitor; as
though there were not enough picture-houses
already, the only remaining skating-rink has
put away .its rollers and taken to films. And
tne public seems never to weary of support-
ing them all.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“S.S.” : H. B. Irving’s effort as Hamlet strikes me
as an absolute reversal of the legitimate methods of
art. It is not a struggle to adapt a personality to the
Shaksbaconian character, but an heroic and most
painstaking attempt to make Haifllet fit Irving.
Irving is not sunk in Hamlet so much as Hamlet is
sunk in Irving. Then while the actor insists point-
edly on Hamlet’s sanity, this appears quite the mad-
dest Dane I have ever s#en. Hamlet’s very sus-
picions that others doubt his sanity assume the form
of an obsession ; for no one is so confident of his own
sanity as a confirmed megalomaniac.
“Stargazer”: Critics here, there and everywhere
have been complimenting the various gentlemen who
manipulated “Arms and the Man” on their skill in
retaining in “The Chocolate Soldier” the wit and
vivacity of Shaw. I envy those critics their devilish
perspicacity. I have to confess with sorrow that I
could find no trace of Shaw’s sparkling fancy left in
the adaptation. Of course there are some remnants
of the plot of “Arms and the Man.” A soldier
escaping from the foe, invades a young lady’s bed-
room ; but for the rest it is not Shaw, and doesn’t
remotely resemble the whimsicality of the bright
Irishman who is accused of imitating everybody,
and whom everybody imitates, but who remains
unique. All the Shawian characters are vulgarised
in this opera. The adapters have. made Sergius a
commonplace braggart and their Bluntschli is only
an impudent ass, while the father becomes a con-
ventional low-comedy type, and the women are
robbed of all individuality. “The Chocolate Sol-
dier,” may be almost everything else that is
claimed for it, but. alas, it isn’t Shaw.
Randolph Bedford’s season at Melbourne Princess’s,
commencing on September 23, will run through the
racing carnival, and get the patronage of the visit-
ing crowd that can better appreciate the color and
characterisation of Australian drama than Melbourne
residents. Bedford will produce two plays, and each
of them —especially the one to follow “The Pluck
Up”—is said to be much better built than his
“White Australia” of yore. The slap-dash amateur
dramatist has acquired craftsmanship. By the way,
the opening piece is to carry the full length of the
title of the story on which it is founded—“ The Lady
of the ‘Pluck Up.’ ” Bedford had intended to drop
the first half of the title, and leave the picture-
posters to proclaim the presence of a lady in the
case, but it seems that the first duty of theatrical
advt. is to tickle the interest of womankind. “The
Pluck Up,” short and simple, would not have ap-
pealed to the sex. ,
Frank Gardiner, the man with that impassive bit-
ting Bull countenance which is such an asset to the
born poker player, looms up again in the cable news.
A Court at Paris has ordered him to account to
Carrie Swain, once of “The Tomboy” show, for
the profits of their theatrical partnership. The
awful patience of the man with the Sitting Bull
countenance is evidenced by the fact that it was 15
years before he opened his impassive face to tell the
lady that there was a flaw in their marriage contract.
The evening-dress person in the meloscream generally
gives away the show inside 24 hours.
Frank Tyars, now 63 years old, is a relic of the
original Irving Co., and his staid, matter-of-fact
performance of King Claudius in “Hamlet dates
back to 1877, when he played the part on the second
tour which Irving made through Britain in a star
capacity. Previously Pinero had taken the part on
tour.
“Mime”: Concerning imitation. London stage-
managers enforce it. If an actor like Grossmith or
Huntley makes a hit, the touring companies are
made iip. The performers are instructed to see the
originals, and imitate them in every line. There
have been instances in Australia lately of comedians
being spoilt by having to imitate the forced manner
and speech of Huntley rhrough long runs. Very dif-
ferent was Bancroft’s stage-management. When Ihe
School for Scandal” was rehearsed, he said to Hare,
“I don’t want Phelps’s Sir Peter, but Hare s ; and
that actor cursed his unlucky stars for having gone
to see Phelps at all. But Bancroft was an excep-
tion A much more common experience was that ot
Mansfield, the original Col. Stanley in “The Pirates
of Penzance.” Gilbert enforced a Grossmith
(senior) interpretation at rehearsal, and Mansfield
could see what a marionette Grossmith was in Gil-
bert’s hands. So, at the performance, Mansfield,
who was a genius, struck out an entirely different
line. The plan succeeded. But he could not get
any further employ where Gilbert had any influence.
A Sydney humorist accurately summed up the
physical qualities of the visiting opera singers. Said
he: “They’re all half over life-size.”
The Taits’ next theatre is to go up at Geelong,
where the picture craze has been the_ most violent
thing known since the Oldest Inhabitant cut his
teeth.
“The Witness for the Defence,” which was played
for five weeks in Melbourne, is booked for only three
in Sydney, thus leaving five for the bright and festive
double programme of “Lady Frederick” and ‘ Dolly s
Little Bills.” The politely farcical after-piece, by
the way, is H. A. Jones’s condensation of his own
comedyj “Dolly Reforming Herself,” with the original
moral omitted. It was fixed-up in a hurry for a
sketch performance at the London Hippodrome, and
was then called “Dolly Cutting Herself” a mislead-
ing title, seeing that the tempestuous little spend-
thrift neither cuts nor reforms herself. The amended
title is better.
The Melbourne Cyclorama didn’t find a buyer at
auction. The bidders ran dry at £9750, and the
owners reckon upon getting five figures privately.
Brisbane is to have still another open-air theatre
—at Dutton Park. It will accommodate about 1400
people.
“Vulcan”: Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Limited, be-
comes a solid competitor in the Australian vaude-
ville business these days. Already the circuit com-
prises 11 houses, including those in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Hobart, while arrangements
have been made for appearances at the Victoria
(Newcastle), King’s (Adelaide), and on the Fuller
circuit(M.L.). An opening will also shortly be made in
several Westralian centres. With this ramification,
the co. will be able to spread itself considerably in
the matter of engagements, and the management ex-
pects to be soon able to offer every artist worth
while at least a year’s work. The co. has broken
out into a new rule that it will give no engagement
to any artist who has already appeared in any other
vaudeville house in Australasia; and that, following
on the Williamson-Clarke-Meynell amalgamation,
doesn’t make things look less blue for the mummer
and mummeress.
Reginald Wykeham and Co., who carried on Hugh
J. Ward’s clever comedy team when that actor-
manager joined J.C.W., are in Sydney re-organising
for a tour of the Commonwealth, with Maoriland to
follow.
.W. S. Percy, who is not going to London until an-
other contract with the Firm expires, has blossomed
as a constructor of cinematograph plays. He won
the prize recently offered by Wests’ Ltd., for a
canned drama, and the invention is now being re-
hearsed in Sydney and on its harbor.
Bilanderson has been' taking off his hat to the
stage-manager of his Sydney dramatic co., for heaving
scenery into position with unusual velocity. Tran-
shipment at Albury delayed the arrival of the dress-
ing for the drama at the Sydney end. The first
section arrived on Friday at 1.30 p.m., and the
second section, which contained the bigger settings,
was not delivered at the Criterion until 3 p.m. on
Saturday. But there was nothing out of place when
the curtain rose at 8 p.m., no hitch during the per-
formance, and the show was out at 10.45. Furious,
scene-banging has also been going on at the Palace'
since the Anderson Co. moved down there. On
Wednesday and Saturday afternoons “The Old
Woman Who Lived in a Shoe” has the stage for her
panto. Her last curtain is at 5 p.m., and between
that and 8 p.m. the panto, settings have to be fired
out and “The Christian” sets shot in. And, despite
the lack of working room, the big job is done with
unfailing regularity.
Bananaland’s Police Offences Bill gives a policeman
above the rank of sergeant power to drop in and tor-
bid “any cinematograph pictures of an immoral,
grading, or pernicious nature.” Commissioner Cahill,
called in to give light on the subject in the House
of Fossils, opined “that pictures representing busn-
ranging escapades should be considered improper.
In the same spirit a horse-breeder would probably
regard the picture of a motor-car factory as “im-
proper.” The House of Fat thought that the at-
tempt to put down Ikey Noses was pernicious.
There is therefore no telling what a constable above
the rank of sergeant may do if his whims are allowed
to run loose. The time may come when some Repub-
lican copper may, with a good show of reason, forbid
pictures that reproduce some of the Court functions
which encourage people to be worms instead of
men.
Edmund Gwenn, so pleasantly remembered in Aus-
tralia, seems all over the place on the London stage.
In a single number of the Referee, he gets good
notices as a Pett Ridge cockney at a hospital
matinee, as Uncle Peter in a new success, The Girl
Who Couldn’t Lie,” and as clown in Punch and
Judy at the great annual theatrical garden-party.
Oscar Asche has struck it so rich with “Kismet”
in London, that he will not want to change the bill
before he closes the season and leaves for Australia.
Though there is a tremendous outcry about
the “prohibitive” cost of labor, especially in
the manufacturing industries, some figures
just issued by the N.S.W. Government Stat-
ist show that, in proportion to the total
value of the output, salaries and wages have
actually decreased in the past 10 years. For
every £lO,OOO worth of goods produced m
1901, £1928 was paid in wages and salaries,
whereas in 1910 only £1750 was paid. But
if the man on wages or salary got less in
proportion to the output, the man who
supplied the material and the fuel took care
that he didn’t. Per £lO,OOO of output,
materials cost £5903 in 1901, and £63-5 in
1910; while the fuel bill sprinted along from
£194 to £238.
Maoriland’s Commandant recently re-
ceived a challenge from one Robert Hogg,
who has been pouring out a cataract of
words on behalf of the “anti-militarists.’
Hogg wants to fight the General, but only
with his mouth. He defies him to debate,
among other things, “whether any scheme of
compulsory service possible of adoption by
the M.L. Government can be considered ade-
quate compared with the forces that might
be arrayed against it.” If Hogg wants to
be Whole-Hogg he ought to barrack for the
abolition of doctors and medicine, too. Every
doctor and every medicine is beaten at some
time or other by hostile forces; nevertheless,
in the struggle to hold off the victory of
Death as long as possible, even Hogg pro-
bably takes a pill now and then.
The Melbourne policeman is searching,
practically as one man, for the corpse of a
young woman who went to a private hospital
recently, was operated on, and thereafter
vanished off the face of the earth. Dr. Pea-
cock, who has been arrested in connection
with the business, is a well-known citizen,
a man of substance, and a septuagenarian,
the theory of the police is that accused (who is
alleged to have given all his servants a holi-
day about the time the girl is suspected of
having passed out in his hospital) has
macerated, or cut up, or burned, or other-
wise effectively disposed of the remains.
They were strengthened in this view on Sat-
urday by unearthing beneath the dead em-
bers of a fire, on one of the doctor’s farms,
four false teeth and some trinkets, alleged
to correspond with those of the departed.
The thing that baffles the average man of the
world is why any prominent medico, who had
had the misfortune to have the victim of an
illegal operation die' on his hands, should
need to run the fearful risk of secretly
burying her. It is notorious that scores of
“high-class” doctors perform curettes with
the same object as their less-reputable con-
freres perform “illegal operations”—one dis-
tinction between the two operations being
that the latter is a criminal offence, while
the former is perfectly legal. Why should a
well-to-do practitioner bury a patient illeg-
ally. and run the risk of the gravest charge
in the calendar, when he might abandon all
perilous mystery and take his stand on the,
fact that he performed a necessary curette?'
But that is only one of half a dozen myster-
ies that have landed the police in a maze,,
without a lantern to show the way out.
EXTRA DRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MELBA GRAND OPERA SEASON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
PATRONS are particularly requested to be in their
seats to-morrow evening before the curtain rises at
8 o’clock, as after that time the doors will be closed
until the termination of the last act. — Terrifying,
but incorrect announcement in daily paper.
The red-faced man breathed through his nose
And slammed the paper down;
Then like a biplane up he rose
And spluttered into town ;
He sought the plan and tickets two
Cast down upon the board.
“Here! Gimme something else! Do you
Imagine I will see it through
Without a drink? GOOD LORD!!”
The clerk with promptitude remarked,
‘Last’ should, of course, be ‘first.’ ”
“All right!” the heated stallite barked,
And rushed to quench his thirst.
Some people sit ahd drink the score ;
But many blithesome pals
Just tolerate the Crash and roar,
And haunt the costly opera for
The splendid intervals.
N.S.W.
HORATIO THIRSTY.


THE STYLE BOOK YOU WAHT
David Jones’ Spring 8 Summer Catalogue.
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
IT has only been published a few days—a big picture Catalogue, larger than ever before; for
instead of the usual 150 pages, it is increased to 260 pages. It contains a most comprehen-
-, s i vo , ;un ff °i.the New Fashions in every department of Feminine Wearing Apparel, in
Children s Clothing and Men’s Clothing included. Also is a broad assortment of Haberdasherv,
Fancy and Toilet Goods. It also shows you how to furnish your home well, and in excellent
taste. It gives you an insight into the splendid Policy of our House —“Quality always at
the lowest possible prices,” and tells you how easy, how satisfactory, and how thoroughly
convenient it is to order by Mail. This Catalogue has been specially compiled for the benefit
of Country Residents, and it costs you no more to order from the Catalogue than shopping in
person, for °
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
On all goods except Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchenware and Hardware, to anv part of the
Commonwealtli. Only on Toys when ordered with other goods.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O.
sypNcy.
Gout and Rheumatism.
These complaints arise from the poisonous waste
matters accumulated in the blood consequent on the
kidneys, through temporary disorder or through
some disease, being unable to carry out their work.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills rapidly reach the root of
the trouble, and soon afford relief. Price Is. 6d. and
2s. 6d.*
Stewart Dawson’s latest advertising booklet con-
tains admirably reproduced colored pictures of the
various British crowns and coronets —and there are
dozens of them. With these interesting reproduc-
tions there are portraits of the present King and his
.most famous predecessor.-)—as well, of course, as a
little artistic matter descriptive of Stewart Dawson s
own jewel-ware.*
SOCIETY
Aii Adelaide court lias pushed the defini-
tion of an “accident” pretty far. Deceased
was an engine-driver, who had to go down
into a pit for cleaning purposes, and work
in a stooping position, with much heat on
the back of his neck. He staggered out, and
died a few yards away. The Government,
his employer, relied on the admitted and ob-
vious fact that he had a weak heart; hut the
Court held that it was “accidental that the
adverse conditions of the man and the ad-
verse conditions of the work coincided, so
that death resulted.” Verdict for £3OO com-
pensation accordingly, to be divided among
widow and children. The decision is satis-
factory, because, if the job kills the worker,
the employer who put him on to it may
fairly be asked to shoulder the responsi-
bility, even though a stronger man might
have taken no harm. But “stay of proceed-
ings” was granted, and various lawyers are
likely to earn fat fees before the point is
finally settled.
“GRACE BEFORE MEAT”
S. Aus. has been getting thoughtful. Dur-
ing the first eight months of this vear, Ade-
laide had only 9.80 in. of rain, which is over
sin. below its very moderate average. The
pastoral districts expect less, and got it.
Oodnadatta has had but lfin. in 11 months !
The showers in the Far North have, how-
ever, fallen at the right time, so the position
isn’t as bad as the figures ; nevertheless, the
State is beginning to realise that its boom
may not last for ever.
A Ballarat (Vic.) man lias just been fined
10s. because his wife suffers from an unduly
tender heart. The lady has a penchant for
decayed and invalid dogs; she keeps open
house, and they wander in when nothing else
is doing. Then she' nourishes them for a
month or two, and, when they are sleek and
plump, she discharges them into a cold
world. Some, however, decline to be dis-
charged ; perceiving they have a good thing
on, they return persistently after being
heaved out. Lately the dog inspector hap-
pened on this Lost Logs’ld ome, and callously
summoned the lady’s husband, as occupier,
for keeping unregistered dogs. The poor
man explained the circumstances, but got no
sympathy, and it is difficult to see what he
can do without reaping trouble. He might
close his door, but: his wife would probably
re-open it; he might spread abroad some
enticing grilled steak flavored with
strychnine, but the children or even his wife
might consume it. Another plan would be
to speak firmly to the lady, but she might
not be the sort of lady one would naturally
speak firmly to. Looking at the case fore
and aft, The Bulletin doesn’t know what
to recommend, unless the man can come to
an honorable understanding with a sausage
factory.
“Berkeley”: As J. F. Hogan says so (B.
24/8/T1), Cook may have christened the
inlet south of Sydnev “Botanist Bay” ; but
according to the journal in which Sir Joseph
Banks made his notes on the voyage of the
Endeavor —the volume is now in the posses-
sion of the Sydney National Library—the
place was first known as “Stingray Bay.”
In several places Banks has written the
word “Stingray,” and has afterwards crossed
it out and substituted “Botany.” Neither
name is strikingly appropriate, yet both are
an improvement on most of the names given
by Cook to his discoveries. I believe that
Sydney enthusiasts still bear a grudge
against him for his clumsy “Fort Jackson,”
though they can overlook the stupid “New
South Wales.” And what could be more
ridiculous than the name “New Hebrides” be-
stowed on a group of the most gorgeous
islands in the Pacific? Evidently Cook was
so busy pursuing his particular hobby that
he allowed his imaginative faculty to die of
inattention.
* * • * •
From “Palette, Senior” :
The Exhibition of Students’ Work at the Sydney
Art School is a fine tribute to the teaching ability
of Julian Ashton and Mildred Lovett. Here we see
work of the artists who are to fill the centre of
the wall in the shows of 1920-40. The Longs, the
Lamberts, the John Longstaffs, the Streetons and the
Bertram Mackennals. Tom t erry has a back view
of a clerk poring over a ledger—a fine bit of pen
and ink work ; and his charcoal drawing of a girl’s
head is full of, definite and vital technique. Miss
Lovett’s short-skirted kid nursing her elegant ankle
is a better black-and-white than any ever bought by
the N.S.W. National Gallery. Two vases of hers, if
produced in any country but her own, would condemn
her to china-painting for life. Broderick is a name
on a lot of good drawings, and if the students who
tried to visualise Dickens were content to interpret
the history and fiction of Australia, the whole show
would advance a rung or two on the long ladder that
leads to perfection.
In Parramatta, where
asylums, hospitals, gaols,
“h om e s,” etc., are as
thick as wattle-trees,
they must have a very
casual way of dealing
with the superfluous
gentleman whom “no-
body owns,” judging by
the evidence given at in-
quests and inquiries, an-
cient and modern. A
coronial inquiry was held
recently touching the
death at Rookwood of
an inmate who had died,
according to the medical
testimony, while having
a wound in his neck
stitched up. The wound
“had severed the wind-
pipe, but was not seri-
ous.” The coroner, may-
be in some stiff-necked
humor, nevertheless en-
tered a finding to the
effect that death had re-
sulted from those injur-
ies to the neck, although
the authorities of one or
two district asylums
would possibly have been
better pleased if his
Worship had not been
so luridly independent,
and had certified to
“heart-failure” —t hat
blessed term so handy to the profession
when it doesn’t want to be bothered.
The facts appear to be that the man broke
away from Rookwood, and turned up at one
of the Parramatta asylums, where he cut his
throat; but gentlemen have no right to cut
their throats away from their own asylums,
so. after some mysterious delay, he was put
in an ambulance and taken back to his own
retreat, and there he promptly died —not of
“Peart failure,” as he should have done, but
(according to the coroner) from the cut
throat which was so unimportant that it
really shouldn’t have mattered to anybody.
CURRENT COOKERY.
WAITER : “Yessir! We’re
very hup ter date 'ere. Cooks
heverythink with electricity.”
CUSTOMER : “ Oh, do you! Well, just give this steak another shock, please .”
Apparently arriving at the decision that
the teachings of Christianity are of no use,
the Wellington (M.L.) grand jury handed
up the dogger’s lash to Justice Chapman
last week. Thus :
That the grand jury views with alarm the large
number of sexual offences continually : coming before
the Courts, especially against young children, and is
of opinion that these offences-should be treated with
more severity, and by the administration of corporal
punishment where necessary.
Old prophet Job evidently saw that jury in
the far distance when he entered on his tab-
lets: “Ask now the beasts, and they shall
teach thee.”
* * # *
Judging from many recent cases in Aus-
tralia, and especially in Melbourne, there is
urgent need for a Federal law against mis-
cegenation, as in some of the American
States. Not only is the notoriously lustful
Cliow always on the lookout to entice young
white girls, who themselves corrupt others,
but it is becoming a common practice for
women threatened with a charge of vagrancy
to “keep house” for a few days with the dis-
colored filthmonger, who then secures the
woman’s liberty by giving evidence on her
behalf. It would not matter so much if each
degenerate remained with her Ah Muck, but
she doesn’t. She strays and perhaps con-
taminates a dozen or more whites, physically
and morally, before she finally returns to the
dens of Lilly Buck-stleet.
The fight between the doctors and the
friendly societies has reached Adelaide, and
about 80 of the best-known medical men
have advertised that they won’t be on speak-
ing terms with a new “dispensary.” As
usual in these pull-devil pull-baker affairs,
each side swears that it is the Baker. The
doctors say that they are being sweated ; the
societies say that the doctors are a grasping
Trust. The societies say they can get
plenty of doctors to do the work at their
prices and on their terms; the medical
strikers say—“ Very well, get them, and see
how we’ll deal with them!” And, no doubt,
while they are “dealing with” the alleged
blacklegs of their profession, the top-notch
M.D.’s will express their horror at the prob-
ably cruder but far less malignant methods
of the Hebrew Hod-carriers’ Union.
* * * *
Broken Hill has broken out into a union
or an honorable understanding or something
of the kind in the marrying industry. It be-
gan in the old way ; one parson was getting
such a rush of trade that his fellow saints
suspected that his fees were below cost price,
so they formed a union, and drew up a log.
No doubt there will be strikes, and blackleg
ministers, and “scab” brides and bride-
grooms, and secret discounts, and all that;
and perhaps the unionist butcher will refuse
to bring the breakfast steak to the blackleg
couple. But, anyway, the rent-collector will
call whether they are unionist or not. You
can, thank Heaven, always rely upon the
thorough impartiality of the rent-collector!
* * * *
Heath hides in most places, but it is un-
usual to find the grisly old familiar in a
mouth-organ. Yet that was where he waited
for Kenneth Stewart, aged 18, a dentist’s
assistant in South Melbourne. Sucking at a
mouth-organ, Stewart pulled a false tooth
back into his throat. It stuck and tore his
throat; septic poisoning set in, and Stewart
died in hospital. One does not know whether
the moral is against the mouth-organ or the
false tooth.
SPRAINS AND BRUISES.
The right time to treat a sprain or bruise is the
moment you get it, and the right remedy to use is
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm. The quicker you rub it
on, and the more you use it, the quicker your sprain
will be cured.*
Sands’ N.S.W. Directory will show-its fat
red cheeks to the world as usual early in
1912. and the publishers (John Sands, Ltd.)
will be glad to have word of any changes of
address up to the first week in October.
A French journalist of first rank, who
visited Australia recently, is reported to
have said :
You Australians are the strongest national contra-
diction I have yet met. In political progress you
are 50 years ahead of Europe; in religious progress
you are 100 years behind it.
The comment is much more discerning than
usual. The vast majority of Australian
men either do not trouble about religion at
all, or have very broad and vague notions
on the subject. Probably not 5 per cent, of
them subscribe to any definite set of doc-
trines. Yet the clergy are able to bluff the
whole population into acting, in many ways,
as if it were thoroughly religious. It is prob-
able that four-fifths of the male voters favor
a _ sensible 0. D. Act; but the “religious”
minority stands in the way of progress and
cleanliness, and, in the name of snuffle and
cant, manages to prevent a deadly disease
being properly treated. A great majority
of thinking men favor the totalisa-
tor; but, in the two largest States of the
Commonwealth, the book-thumper has joined
with the book-maker to block it. The ma-
jority in favor of a rational Sunday is over-
whelming ; but, though the churches continue
to be. empty, the preacher manages to stop
his rivals from doing any good with their
shows. So it is all along the line of social
reform. The parson apparently feels that
he must do something to hold his job and
justify his existence; so he is always on
the lookout for anything which can be
twisted into being anti-religious. That
much is understandable; why the people put
up with it is the mystery.
* * * *
1 here is quite a boom in lysol-poisoning;
but those who have a mind to try it as a
means to suicide are hereby warned to think
up some other method. Lysol, taken inter-
nally, is a most painful expedient, the doc-
tors say.
“Chloe,” on the neglect of Australian
writings in Australian schools :
I agree entirely with “Cadonia” (B. 27/7/’ll),
that Australian Universities and Education Depart-
ments have hitherto done hardly anything to further
a knowledge of or foster a regard for Australian
writings, either prose or verse. Having coached
pupils for matriculation and teachers’ examinations
Mature for the past seven years, I can assert
that during’ this period not a single mention has
been made of an Australian writer, nor has anv
specimen of Australian work been dealt with. The
anthology mentioned by “Cadonia” as having been
discussed by the lecturer with a grimace, is a volume
well worthy the attention of the Australian educa-
tionist. Not only has the selection. been well and
carefully made, but the introductory sketch —a brief
history of the birth and progress of Australia’s litera-
ture—is a model of style, and is full of interest to
the student of- Australia’s history. If the technique
of the verse is not uniformly high, the work, at
least, reflects the life and color of Australia and
Maoriland, and in many instances a high literary
standard has been reached —in the ballads particu-
larly. The trouble in most cases is that the subject
is handled by the literary prig who only finds it safe
to tackle volumes through which his way has been
clearly marked by the annotator. The English
classics are served out to the students with so many
carefully-regulated opinions that, to be Successful,
one needs neither taste nor intelligence nor critical
faculty. Only memory is called upon. This sort of
person’s alleged contempt for Australian literature
isn’t, therefore, any reflection on the literature. It
means merely that he is a poof loafer, who must
lean up against somebody else.
TO LAGGARD SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You need to come and gladden us
With sunshine-flushed Septembers,
That brought the buds to blossomhood,
And set the land aglow,
While ranges rang with nesting songs,
Ah, well one heart remembers
Your welcome in the songbirds’ haunts,
Some twenty years ago !
Has cruel Winter ’prisoned you,
And robbed you of your powers?
Or have you to the tempests’ king,
Your pleasant sway resigned?
No birds’ love-song is joyous now,
And tender, new-born flowers
Are drooping on the sodden hills,
Torn with the hail- and wind.
We dread the tyrant Winter’s rule,
It baulks us of our pleasure;
Dead blooms sad Autumn brings to us,
And Summer’s reign we fear:
Again in normal glory, Come!
With wealth of floral treasure,
And put stem Winter’s clouds to flight
Queen season of the year !
VICTORIA.
FRANK BELLMAN.


ħ
(Q
o
For all
domestic uses, i
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters
home.
NO. ST. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
" PURE FOOD ACT, 1008,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED.
SYDNEY. N.S.W. NO. 67.
HUNYADI JANOS is the natural aperient water
par excellence. The average dose is a wine-glassful
taken before breakfast. Nature herself has mingled
its chief ingredients, sulphate of magnesia and sul-
phate of soda, in such ideal proportions that this
Water acts promptly without griping or other dis-
comfort, and may be used for any length of time
and at any period of life.*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to.
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
h
Crepe vShirts
for Warmer Days.
WITH warmer days comes the need for cooler clothing
—and these Crepe Shirts of ours fill this need per-
fectly ! The materials wash splendidly, becoming
softer after each visit to the laundry. The designs
are new and exclusively charming, whilst the open weave
makes for cool comfort.
The colors include a wide vaiiety of grounds in Greens,
Blues, Greys and Reds, overrun with stripe effects ; also in
plain colors such as White, Green, Helio. and Light Blue.
Sold either with loose collar and soft cuffs or with stiff
neckbands and cuffs—state which you prefer, and what size
collar you take when ordering.
Price
5|6
Postage 6d.; or 3 posted for is
PEAPES & CO., LTP.
“ Men’s
Outfitters.”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Six times a week the Sydney D.T. re-
minds us of Hosea Bigelow’s “pious editor,”
who was an advocate for Fat at home, but a
fiery democrat in matters “as fur away as
Paris is.” The latest instance is over recent
Labor troubles on two sides of the world. In
connection with the row at Lithgow, which
is by the Telegraph’s own back door, the
“pious editor” sees the position clearly:—
The idea that during a strike people may with im-
punity go to excesses which would involve them in
serious consequences at any other time, is one of the
most pernicious that could get currency, and should
be confuted in the only effective way, by a practical
example of what it means to those who act upon it
in a country of ordered government.
But “as fur away” as London is, he sees
things in quite a different light
They [the employers] may be in a position to ease
the working conditions and make them more re-
munerative, but only under compulsion will they do
so. The effect of that attitude is to antagonise the
workers and to prompt them to excesses quite un-
justifiable in themselves, but explainable through the
animosity that has been aroused in them.
And thus the “pious editor” makes the best
of both worlds —the world of the workers’
pennies and the world of the Fat adver-
tisers’ pounds.
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
HE (nastily) : “I wish you’d talk sense.”
SHE (sweetly) : “ I didn’t want to insult you,
George, dear.”.
AN INTENSE MOMENT.
Baby Willie licks his knife whilst having tea at grandma's.
Sydney Telegraph recently belabored “a
certain section'’ of Australians because they
doubted the motives of a Japanese Polar ex-
pedition, which mistook Sydney for the Pole,
and accordingly camped there, under the
forts, and turned a flock of cameras loose on
the surrounding landscape. Miss Rose Scott,
Bruce Smith and other peaceable individuals
were horror-stricken at the “discourtesy”
which the suspicious Australians had heaped
upon their “luckless” visitors. A few days
ago (17/8/T1) the same Telegraph inter-
viewed a Mr. Darcy, a “commercial” just
bacx from Japan and vicinity, who men-
tioned, among other things :
I have never been in a country before where I have
met with such rudeness. They will not allow you to
take any photos, at all. In fact, a friend of mine
was taking photos, when we were going through the
Inland Sea, and a spy on board informed the authori-
ties, and at the first stopping place my friend was
arrested and taken away. The captain of the boat,
however, said he would not leave without him, but
the Japanese refused to give him up until the cap-
tain threatened to make representations to the
British Ambassador. They gave him up then, but
kept the camera, which was a most expensive one.
When boorish Australians commence to
assault and rob everv Japanese who uses a
camera, the commotion raised by I). Tele-
graph, B. Smith and R. Scott will be so
great that every “wireless” apparatus in the
Southern Hemisphere will be put out of
action.
* * * *
“Small Beer”: An ancient Sydney brew-
ery that has seen some changes is to see
some more. Ruilt at Leichhardt, it was
originally King’s, and, later, the Sydney Co-
operative. Then for years it
was deserted: but now it has
been secured by the Marshall
people, whose old brewery at
Paddington was recently trans-
formed into a picture hall.
The brewer who has been put
in charge is one Truntsclinigg,
an Austrian, who has seen
something of the world. For
five years he was brewing at
the Brasserie des Pyramides,
near Cairo, Egypt; it appears
that the Arabs have acquired a
taste for the. liquor that keeps
Canon Boyce, Worrall and co.
so busy.
* * * *
Judge Rogers, presiding at
the current Quarter Sessions in
Sydney, had the hardihood to
create a precedent. A jury had
been locked up all Thursday
night, and on Friday evening
the case was still unfinished.
Now, as the law is understood
in N. S. Wales, juries in cases
of felony may not separate un-
til a verdict is given. Another
rule is that the law in N.S.W.
must not work on Saturdays if
it can possibly help it. Judge
Rogers was, therefore, faced
with the problem of calling the
court together on Saturday
morning or ordering the jury to
be locked up from Friday evening until Mon-
day morning. The latter alternative seemed
over the odds; the former was, of course, un-
thinkable. So Rogers, J., solved the problem
by allowing the jury to go home to its wife
and beer, and dismissing the Law to its
usual Saturday golf. The prisoner wasn’t
asked what he felt like doing.
The Maoriland Old Age Pensions Depart-
ment, which has just issued its annual re-
port, has dug out an interesting illustration
of the way Uncle Sam has to try to wriggle
out of his Constitutional strait-jacket—the
same strangling garment that has caused so
much trouble to Australia, which took it for
a pattern, to a great extent. Sam’s Con-
stitution confers no power on the Federal
Government to grant old age pensions—-
which oversight, by the way, only narrowly
escaped being repeated in the Commonwealth
Constitution. But it does give power, of
course, to “raise and support arms’’; and,
therefore, Congressman Wilson, of Pennsyl-
vania, framed a measure to organise in the
Department of War, under direction of the
President, an army corps, to be known as
the “Old Age Home Guard of the United
States Army.” Amongst the Bill's provi-
sions -were:—-
(1) That the Guard should be composed of per-
sons (men and women), not less than 65 years of
age, who had been citizens of the U.S. for 15 years.
(2) Provided such persons were qualified under
the property or income limitations, they should be
enlisted for the term of their natural life without
regard to their physical condition.
(3) The pay of a private in the Guard should be
£24 annually, paid in quarterly instalments.
(4) Arms and ammunition to be furnished at the
discretion of the Secretary of War, but no susten-
ance, except the pay, provided.
(5) No private should drill or see service with
the U.S. Army.
The Bill did not pass—except as an amaz-
ingly “slick” idea.
From the Solomon Islands, concerning the
latest murder: —
So poor Daniels has gone. He was preaching to
his “boys” at night, standing near the fire to get
light to" read his Bible, when Bang! a rustle in the
bush close handy, and he dropped, dying a few
minutes later, jimmy Malaita, whom I know very
well, says Daniels married a native couple from an-
other village who had run away. The girl had been
sold to another old buck, but as she had broken the
moral code, and was certain to be found out, she
cleared with her lover. The old buck who paid his
good red money (native shell, in lengths) has no
gun, but a repatriated kanaka, who had been to
Queensland and imbibed some of the blessings of
civilisation, is blamed for the actual shooting. Of
course nobody saw the marksman, and equally, of
course, the missionary boys know nothing about it.
When Queensland was trying to keep its cheap nigger
there used to be a touching yarn that the repatriated
Tommy, having been softened by the refining in-
fluencfes of a white man’s land, would be set upon by
the home-staying savage and put to death. Nothing
of that sort happened; on the contrary, this is
merely another instance of how the savage who
stayed at home is always suspected of turning to his
“refined” and “softened” brother when he wants a
particularly bad crime committed.
****
Though the census was taken over five
months ago the returns are not all in yet.
Statistician Ivnibbs still awaits two —not
from remote corners of Westralia or the Nor-
thern Territory, but from the Ma State —-one
from far up on the Darling, which is perhaps
excusable; and the other from near Yass-
berra, where tbe garden city of Australia is
to be. Apparently the enumerators have lost
themselves in those parched, drouthy districts,
or the inhabitants aren’t sure they are alive,
and didn’t like to fill in cards, or else they are
so scarce that there will never be any return.
Dattilo Rubbo, the Sydney artist, re-
hearses his woes :
“Do not speaka to me ! What tha artist suffra from
in Australia is tha not hava tha model. You will
not believe, so I tella to vou.
“Look at tha chap who lighta tha pipe with a
clean shave in ma peekature. You seea the beautiful
beard ho not got. Why? I scrape it off. That is
why.
“Listen to me. At first he had tha fine redda
whisk’, so beeg, like tha mat at tha door an’ tha re-
flexsion from tha burna match all over it. Beauti-
ful ! But Cristo! the terubble it was. Tha first I
setta heem down, filla tha pipe, lighta tha match,
but- —pouf ! —it is out before I hava tha time to see
tha effect. Then I geeve heem tha box, but it is
strika tha match, strika tha match all tha time. I
theenlc I not mucha tha snapaschott camera nor tha
lightening sketcher notta tha leetle hit ; so 1 getta
tha long taper that bum tha thirty meenut; but tha
pos-eeshi-on is all anyhow an’ I tcarra ma hair, an’
tha model he smoka tha pipe an’ laugh. Then I
getta idea —tha candella end —short, like so—in tha
hand, alight. Splendeed 1 an’ tha ref-lexsion on tha
whisk —bosker! I paint, an’ I paint, an’ I paint,
an’ tha model he nod, when —queek!—tha beeg
smoke, tha burna hair —Sancta Maria ! I joomp ail’
grab at tha flamin’ whisk’, an’ tha model he wake
up, passa me one in tha sto-mac, an’ knocka me
endovatip in tha corna. He tella me tha ‘Dam-
dago,’ an’ ‘what tha helova game you call this —
burna tha beeg hole in ma beautiful whisk, an’
stuffa it down ma neck!’ I say ‘Hold on, ma fine
fellow, you fall of a sleep youself, an’ burna you
whisk’ all to blazes. Whaffor I burn it? I want it,
loaf it, paint it —you no gooda to me witha hole in
you whisk’.
“In tha leetle while we shaka tha hand, an’ I
getta tha see-sor, an’ I say, ‘Ma good fellow, I
maka you looka tha one. I eutta you whisk*. An
he say ‘Lettago!’ But when he look in tha glass, he
send me tha summon for two squid ! •
“But I have tha revenge. I paint heem as 3mu
see, with a clean shave; an’ only it make tha peeka-
ture look lika damfool, I paint heem tha hole in tha
whisk’ —straight!”
Sydney Harbor Trust, pushed for a place
to berth the incoming mail .steamer Ophir
last week, was forced to send her to Pyr-
mont. She had on board 400 passengers for
Sydney and 100 for Brisbane, and they were
landed on the wrong side of the city, with-
out any means of reaching it except by
securing one of the inadequate supply of
taxi and horse cabs offering. To get to the
cabs the passengers had to carry their lug-
gage over railway lines, past snorting loco-
motives, amongst drags, lorries and wharf-
lumpers engaged in loading and discharging
shipping. As the Ophir steamed up to this
back door, she passed a dado of empty
wharves; but they are all leased to rival
companies, and were “not available.” The
whole thing was a glorious advt. for Syd-
ney’s u.nbeautiful administration of its
beautiful harbor.
Writing to a friend in Melbourne, a Cor-
onating pressman tells a passable yarn about
the big press dinner in Loudon. At many of
the Coronation functions, suffragettes—male
and female —attended and interrupted the
speakers, in order to call public attention to
The Cause. Therefore, chuckers-out were
regularly engaged to deal with the dis-
turbers. At the press dinner Louis Botha
was a guest. He started to reply (in
Dutch) to a toast, and his interpreter started
to interpret. Two of the cliucking-out bri-
gade instantly seized the interpreter, and,
before anybody could stop them, they had
bundled him as far as the nearest door,
where a constable was about to hurl him
into outer darkness, when several of the
guests interfered and explained matters.
From the Auckland (M.L.) Herald
(19/S/T1) :
COUNTRY HOME.—£2O a year is offered to
Young Lady who could teach three boys, eldest in
Fifth Standard ; one who is musical and can
milk preferred; urgent. Apply ', Post Office,
Onehunga.
This seems to suggest a new opening in the
cow-slavery line. But it isn’t as definite as
it might be ; ana we are left in doubt as to
whether the music and the milking are to
be kept separate, or whether the piano is to
be nailed up alongside the bail for the
soothing of Strawberry before the pumping
begins.
“Adelaide”: The Sydney “Spitting bri-
gade” (B. 24/S/T1). “Fine them a fiver a
time!” —in italics and with a note of exclam-
ation ! Why italicise? Why exclaim? Just
do it. We do, in Adelaide ; at least, we did.
Nobody spits now —on a pavement, at any
rate. Never was a seemingly-hopeless
habit so simply slain.
* * * • *
The councillors of a northern Victorian
township should consider themselves fortu-
nate in having a president who values his
privileges so highly. One privilege, according
to the explanation he offered, when charged,
the other day, with sly-grog selling, is that of
dispensing hospitality to fellow-councillors;
and that was why he happened to have in
his possession 10 quart and 3 pint bottles
of whisky, 3 of schnapps, 0 of brandy, 5 of
lager beer, 15 of ale, and a demijohn of
whisky. A Bench, which probably knew the
situation of that mayor’s cupboard quite
well, accepted the explanation with much
sympathy.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
STRANGE CUSTOMER: “Is business so bad
here that you can waste your masters time
catching flies, me lad?”
GROCER’S ASSISTANT : “ Cripes , no, Mister!
I'm gettin' these to slick on a new fly-paper
we're advertising in the winder !”
“Australian”: I don't know how it may
he here and there in the Ma State, but in S.
Aus., lest there should be any mistake about
it, the following order has just been issued
in the Education Gazette: “The Union
Jack must be used on every occasion.” That’s
in connection with the dreary daily process
of “saluting the flag.” A deplorable part of
the business is that the order is issued during
the reign of a Labor Government —and a
Labor Government, too, which looked as
though it were good Australian during the
recent Referenda campaign. I expect to
next read in the Education Gazette that
it is a child’s duty to revere his grand-dad,
but to utterly disregard the father who sup-
plies him with his bread-and-dripping.
A WATTLE DAY SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
the skies are blue, the sun smiles down, and I am
feeling gay,
hor Winter's gone and Spring is here and it is
Wattle Day ;
The motor whizzes down the road through groves of
golden trees ;
The posts and rails go waltzing past; I watch them
at my ease ;
Beyond the green-girt, blossomed hills, within the
city’s murk,
Deserted for this afternoon, lies unattractive Work;
A stray regret at intervals flicks past, but —quite
resigned—
I watch the fairy pawnshop-trees all swaying in the
wind.
I\ith eves half-closed, I see the elves —the hook-
nosed elves of Spring—
Small Cohens, drest in gold and green, who on the
branches swing ;
Each bright-eyed gnome beneath a bunch of sign-
board blossom lurks.
And watches o’er our “permanent and reproductive
works” ;
By road and bridge and railway line they do their
int’rest sums,
And chuckle through the golden days when sweet
September comes ;
Each 18-carat tree, I think, is Fairy Cohen’s tent
And only needs to be complete the two words
“Money Lent.”
x.s.w.
PERCIVAL CENT.


No information has been received by
the Department of Public Health regard-
ing the reported discovery of another
in a pie served in a city restaurant.
When a case was reported some weeks
ago, the Department ordered an inspec-
tion of all such establishments.
it" 7) r Hfco"o rjo't' -
e +- ifU SpeclaJt-y "tr^ed
Keep expert"eye on 1
|sie<, ?
%<l cdjaon ■s£_
Count-1$ oj" Gfebje,*-
/v\elbounie -to put'
■jfietr +o^c^ci'
lo 2\
ot- down
the dust'
/ m w*y, ij- re*Uy
•ffje wK t « 1 ' supply >Ch-r 'for Ibe-
(3«r|>o^e
Me had observed in a section of the
press that the Federal Parliament had
neglected its duty in a scandalous man-
ner. They were told that the anaemic
descendants of giant ancestors conde-
scended to give only two hours a week to
their country in return for the many
things it had given them. However, the
objection to the Labor party was not that
it did so little, but that it did so much -
yes t w/hen you ionoeorje elses #ec. <s
Very "to lef" /ie.
“I saw among the
natives individuals
having a distinctly Se-
mitic cast of features.
The aboriginals, as a race, are decidedly
cannibalistic, although it is not so pro-
nounced in some parts as in others.
They often kill and eal one another in
the Never-Never; but Ido not think that
they would eat the flesh of a European.”
I * E
? KeVeK 1 tic's notVuG 1
oj- Shc-m who QeJ~
hnore o uT~ b
Jh>i< 15 +1 cleax^
|r? connector, s * i^ry
Second ne^di yi^/ e
Pkc {•«- r<?
&.U fc* r
were
Secu^
n^t'-i'oW
°("
-fwo
J^urell , Sv/^^'Vb
o»i
'triW C o^lom^
*y
lslao->«*
;- ' B-y c l°s e iSing!
AS THINGS SEEM IN MELBOURNE


Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves anti nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY. r ,
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
Cent.
Discount
.
mmm
JPi
°Jd English or Fiddle Pattern. At Quality.
Table Spoons and Forks, 28/10 per dozen net,
Dessert Spoons and Forks, 22/6 per dozen net,
Tea Spoons, 10/10 per dozen net.
18 *** English manufa <*urers> WHOLESALE catalogue prices for
p 'ofit H but the enormous outU^pa^us" esnecialW us a broker’s commission of
mrd make no bad stock P P > US ’ eSpeClall y as S P°°n* and Forks are easily handled,
We only sell the best possible Spoons and Forks and thev n™ .11 -i , , ,
xs-JFtLsrsjpz. svscr srsxSrJtz?-- -ms sstz
Plain Figures'
Cash.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
* 23 825 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Southern Cross” : Re “Jeroi's” dodge of
tar-soaking maize to stop the kangaroo-rats rooting
it up (B. 27/7/’ll), and “Leo Lear’s” device of
poisoned furrows (B. 17/8/’ll), let me hasten to
•shout that nothing will stop ’roo rats from rooting
up things that are eatable. Once, on a moonlight
flight, I sneaked on to a kangaroo-rat that was root-
ing up a stalk of potatoes. Had an old Enfield rifle
loaded with a bullet 2in. long by Lin. diameter,
r ired, and saw the rat fall; but immediately it
arose and did a death-or-glory sprint down the fur-
row, with me and the sheep-dog in pursuit
We caught it before it had finished its course;
hut I was a bit surprised to find that the bullet
Tiad cut the beggar in halves, and we had run down
•only the hind-quarters. Returning, I was still more
astonished to find that the front-quarters had finished
the job of rooting up the stalk of potatoes. Tar'
Poison! Rats!
* * * *
“Montalex”: I thank “L. 8.” (B. 3/8/’ll).
Like most men who care more for knowledge than
•for the reputation of possessing it, ■ I’m always glad
do be corrected. But some little explanation appears
L.B. says, off the west coast of Ireland, is known
to the Donegal Bay fishermen as the bone-shark;
benee my mistake. Of the other bone-shark men-
tioned by “L. 8.” I know nothing. I will not, how-
ever, have the presumption to say that the creature
Las escaped classification, because it is possible that
the classification has escaped me.
“Mater”: After a gorge of meat, the sta-
tion blacks were suffering from internal cramps. I
cured them all except one with painkiller. He was
very bad, and when I went to see him I found him
being cured by his wife, who was seated by a small
hole, about 10ft. away from him, with a wooden
vessel, known as a boolie-man, beside her. Tommy
was lying under an opossum rug, his face wearing
an expression of perfect confidence. Around his body
was one end of a long string, and the other end was
in the hands of the old woman, and was being drawn
from side to side between her teeth. Her mouth was
filled with water, and she drew the string with such
force as to cause the blood to flow freely from her
gums. She then let the blood, mixed with water,
flow from her mouth into the hole at her side; re-
filled her mouth, pulled again at the string, and so
repeated the performance time after time until the
patient was declared well. I asked the gin the mean-
ing of it. “I’m pulling the debbil-debbil out of
Tommy’s bingy,” she replied.
* * * *
“Waterbag”: Have any of your Abo-rig-
gers ever noticed the attraction or repulsion—l do
not know which it is—that music has for those pets
of the bush, bull-dog ants? Had a visitor to our
camp the other evening, who was giving us a few
verses on a concertina. Suddenly he became aware
of the presence of a few bull-dog ants, and he
stopped in the middle of the tune (he has never
been known to do this before). By the aid of a
lucifer he was found to be surrounded with bullies,
while there were none near any of us. He said that the
only time he remembered being bitten by the ants
was when playing, or just after a play. Suppose both
the attraction and repulsion must depend on the
quality of the player. Some concertina players
would attract the business department of a Black-
hand Society.
* * * *
“Pagin’’: The Abo-gent who said death
adders are found only in rocky country must have
been “our London correspondent” ; and when he lobs
in frantic Australia, I’ll ask him to mount his skates
and glide with me up the Mclntyre, and over the ice-
bound stretches that sweep along the Queensland-
N.S.W: border line. On the run I’m on (Oakhurst,
some 20 miles south-east of Qoondiwindi) we killed
seven death-adders in one day last month, which
isn’t a bad record for mid-winter. And every week
we chop up a few feet of the spike-tailed plague.
These horrors vastly outnumber all the other varie-
ties of snake hereabouts; and the same is true over
a few hundred miles through Goondiwindi, Mun-
gindi, and out past St. George; And this is almost
totally black soil, flat country.
* * * *
“Condamine”: The most effective method
of poisoning foxes is to drag a piece of roasted flesh
—or, better still, a good section of bullock’s tripe—
along a comparatively clear piece of country. Mix
an equal quantity of baking-soda with the strychnine,
and put the dose inside the bait. Distribute the
bait at distances of about 100 yards apart. A fox
striking the trail will always follow it up. The
prepared strychnine acts quickly, and I have known
32 foxes to be got on a trail of one mile in this way.
OUT BACK (FEARFUL LONG WAY).
“No foolin’ at all! I fest turned it into the paddock there, boss, while you was ’avin’ a
drink ; and as soon as the thing got off the road and saw the long grass it lost its
head and went roarin’ mal!”
“Nurse'’: A few Bulletins ago I noticed
that a correspondent wanted to start a Society for
Annihilating “That’s Right” Fiends. I wondered
what he was growling about, but now I know, and
want to join the society. I’ve got the record-breaker
within my clutches, and, though he is indisposed, he
hasn’t got as fatal a malady as he deserves. Bring
him in the paper, and you get “That’s right” for
thanks. “Not much news in it!” “That’s right”
again. Passed a remark on the weather. “That’s
right,” although it wasn’t—it was raining hard.
Told him to ring if he wanted anything, and still
got “That’s right.” The only time he could not fit
it in, in answer to a query, was when I asked him
how he slept. “Like a log,” he said. “That’s
right,” I said, and fled.
AFTER THE MULGA FLAT RACES.
“Here, you larrikin pfellers, you clear. Me and this genleman talken' business.”
“Arcarlo”: William Wagtail is the same
jolly little bravo all over the Solomon Islands as
he is in Australia. Was once asked by a Malaitan
...... ~ .
chief to shoot some hawks which were worrying the
tribe’s poultry. As usual, the wagtails were diving
at the marauders, and a flying shot killed one of
ArsAr? 1 r«." *vr* - we "
as the willv, the chief said there must be no more
shooting, explaining that wagtails are the spirits of
men killed in battle, and, therefore, tambo. The
victim of my gun was carefully and ceremoniously
buried —a tender consideration which was all the
more .MU,, bee.,,,, th, people o, that tribe or,
enthusiastic cannibals.
The possums introduced from Australia
to Otago (M.L.) a few years ago have increased so
rapidly, that in one locality in 10 weeks a trapper
is alleged to have made £lOO out of the little
chaps’ skins. As ’possum is protected, the trapper
has been invited by the police to take his oath that
there is no truth in the allegation.
“Austin Dodd” describes a great bird-
fight :
Abo-liars put up various Australian birds as claim-
ants for the champion feathered fighting belt. I’ll
back the little black-and-white bird which in
Queensland is called the pee-wee. Saw a lone pee-
wee put up the boss bird-scrap of the centuries.
He fluttered on to a verandah, and lodged on the
window-sill, and the pane faithfully reproduced an
image of himself. Apparently he was the boss pee-
wee of those parts, and owned the only pee-wee harem
thereabouts, and, when he saw another cock pee-wee
sitting preening himself inside the window, lie
naturally felt riled. He ruffled up his feathers,
cocked his head sideways, and, in pee-wee language,
said as plain as could be: “Who in the are
you, anyway?” The bloke inside did ditto repeato,
and in dumb-show returned the query. That riled
the bloke outside some more, and he at once threw
down the gage of battle; in fact, both of him did.
Then the two of him went up a couple of feet in the
air, and fluttered for an opening, after which both
of him again sat down on the sill. Then the two
of him puckered out his throat, and the real one
outside threw a lot of horrible remarks concerning the
ancestry of the image off his chest, and the image
of course could only repeat it in dumb show. The
throat pucker must be something deadly; something
like the word “Rome” in a Yellow Pup meeting, for
both of him went fair dilly. Simultaneously both
of him rose and charged the window-sill like two
cyclones. Clash! They met in the centre of the
pane, and, for a full half-minute wrestled up and
down the glass from top to bottom. Then both of
him sat down for wind, and the bloke outside went
just fair mad when he saw the image still there,
and every action being promptly and faithfully re-
peated made him madder. He was up at once, and
when both of him charged this time, it was a case
of “Let her go, Gallagher!” Rip! He struck a
projecting nail in the sash, and a hatful of feathers
went adrift, and blood trickled down his chest. He
sat down and screamed with ecstasy and rage. The
ecstasy because he saw the feathers flying, and the
blood trickling down the other bloke’s breast; the
rage, because the inside bird —instead of chucking
up the sponge and doing a get, as a knocked-out pee-
wee should —still sat there passing out insulting re-
marks in dumb show. This time the both of him
put it all on. Bang! He struck a projecting beam
and went to the boards on his back, two feet below
the window. But even as he was falling he chortled
with joy, for there was the other bloke going down
head-first inside. He lay on his back, gasping,
clawing himself all over to see if he was all there,
and then scrambled on to his feet. Joy! His op-
ponent had vanished, and he was cock of the walk
once more. Then he caught sight of me, and, as
plainly as a pee-wee could, he said: “Fancy that
bloke having the cheek to think he had a chance
with Me ; he hadn’t Buckley’s.” Giving a trium-
phant whoop he darted round the back to see if he
could catch him and give him a few more to go on
with. Half an hour later I saw him exhibiting his
wounds, and telling his harem of the fierce scrap
he had put up with a pee-wee poacher, and how he
knocked him out in three flies. They all believed
him except one old hen pee-wee, and he cuffed her on
the jaw, and forced her to take refuge in another
tree. 1 think she was his mother-in-law. That was
the best bird-scrap I ever saw, and I’ll back the
pee-wee, all styles, beaks, hits, claws, wings and
clinches allowed, against all comers.
“Condamine” : “Saladin” (B. 17/8/’ll)
recalls that historic personage, “Crooked Mick, from
the Speewah.” The old bush legend of Crooked Mick
was a fine effort of the imagination, and would be
worth publishing. It is long since I heard it, but
I still remember that Speewah Bluff was so tremen-
dous a shed that the boss of the board had to ride
up and down on a bicycle. Crooked Mick himself
used to shear his sheep as they came down a shoot;
his best work was to do two lambs with three blows
of the blades. If a man got the sack at one
end of the shed, he would go to the other end
and get put on; sometimes the next season would
be just starting when he got there. A shilling in at
the first pub after cutting-out netted the winner £ 75.
And, as a last sample of the fabulous person’s qual-
ity, he used to take a single-furrow plough in each
hand for a weight, and thus jump rivers where
bridges were scarce.
McPHERSIN AND McCARTHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McPherson was a canny Scot who owned a tidy
farm,
And viewed each small extravagance with very grave
alarm ;
His saving disposition all his neighbors’ wrath in-
curred.
’Twould only take a little loss,” these people all
averred,
“To disturb the mental balance of McPherson.”
He only knocked off ploughing when the day gave
place to night,
Then hurried off to bed at once to save expense in
light;
His kiddies did their “ekker” in the morning, sun
or rain ;
To see them burning candles went against their
father’s grain,
So intensely mean —or frugal—was McPherson.
A “public” there existed, called “The Dingo and the
Bat,'”
And sometimes Mac would wander in to liquefy a
sprat.
He never spent in thirsty haste. Oh, no ! he’d hang
about
In case a friendly feeling should impel a mate to
shout.
He was canny with his drinking, was McPherson.
One evening to the “Dingo,” outside which were
sev’ral drays,
McPherson paid a visit. ’Twas .his first for many
days.
He entered and discovered in the crowded bar a
man
Who kept on saying loudly, “Well, I bet a quid I
can !”
“What th’ de’il does he mean?” thought old
McPherson.
“I have a glass of liquor here, and mean to drink a
drop—
As much or little as I choose —but, when at last I
stop,
There’ll still remain within the glass enough to fill
two more !
A quid to say I do it!” All the others said “Good
lor ! ”
“Oh, he’s daft,” commented stolid old McPherson.
McPherson knew the gambler for a witless loon and
rash,
And reckoned it an easy chance to make a little
cash ;
’Twould be a safe investment, if McCarthy didn’t
bluff.
McPherson chewed it over. Was it reely safe
enough ?....
“Here! I’ll bet a poond ye can’t!” exclaimed
McPherson.
“Ver on! Put up yer money!” said McCarthy with
a grin ;
McPherson showed a sovereign, feeling sure that he
must win.
“Ye’ll drink a bit, but leave enough to fill anither
two ?”
“Quite right,” replied McCarthy, “that’s exactly
what I’ll do!”
“Verra week I’ll see ye dae it,” said McPherson.
McCarthy raised the liquor with a free and easy
pass.
The beer went down—a sixpence made a jingle in the
glass!
“A sixpence fills two glasses,” said McCarthy. “See
th’ sell?”
But Mac saw ruination, and ejaculated “H—11!”
He was very flabbergasted, was McPherson.
“He had th’ sixpence in his mouth,” explained old
Danny Maher,
“An’ sixpence fills two glasses to the brim at anv
bar! ”
At this McCarthy’s visage wore a look of sheer
delight,
And, picking up his winnings, he politely said “Good
night.”
“Aye, guid neit!” replied the furious McPherson.
And now, when it is moonlight (so the neighbors ill
avow),
They see McPherson going hell-for-leather with his
plough ;
He keeps his horses trotting all the weary wav
across,
And cheerful old McCarthy says he’s making up his
loss.
But more taciturn than ever is McPherson.
VICTORIA.
TOM RICHARDS.


Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh—unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure Constipa'
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache,
ħ
Carters
hTTLE•
IVER
PILLS
and Indigestion, as millions know.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
“Just as every French private soldier was said
to carry a field-marshal’s baton in his knapsack, so
every ordinary man bears in his head a possible
patent” says a British weekly. Even aristocrats
(not necessarily the' idle ones) find amusement in
inventing. Amongst these have been Lord Kelvin;
Earl Verulam; Lady Amherst; Viscount Ashbrook;
Lord Montague of Boilleu ; the Earl of Alberinarle:
Lord Ardee, and others. Some most distinguished
personages have instructed Phillips Ormonde & Co.,
the patent agents of 266 Flinders St. (Elevator).*
CALDWELL’S Q S y INKS
Stocked bj’
ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS,
Universal Providers, Brickfield Hill.
PLASMON OATS
Scotland’s Best —“ Enormously increased
in food value by the addition of Plasmon.
4 Minutes Boiling only. Lancet.
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: 5& 7, Barrack St,, Sydney,.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
‘ Gympie Nettle”: Re “Mallarapoonie's”
query as to whether poisoned animals poison the
other animals that eat their flesh (B. 10/8/’ll).
All poisons have a special seat of action. Morphine
acts on the brain, digitalis on the heart, and so on.
When the animal dies the poison is found in a sort
of chemical combination with the part affected, none
remaining in the flesh (or muscles). As regards
strychnine, the seat of action lies in the spinal cord,
and in animals poisoned by strychnine the major
part of the drug is found combined with the cord,
some little being excreted unchanged in the urine.
None of the poison lodges in the muscle, the whole
of it being carried to the spine by the blood. A
harmful effect might be produced on “Mallarapoo-
nie’s”' niggers by eating the cord of their defunct
mongrels, but even then they would have to absorb
18 times as much of the drug as it ordinarily takes
to kill. Combination with the tissue in some Way
attenuates the drug, which fact is made use of by
scientists, e.g., in tetanus, where the bacillus is at-
tenuated by mixing with a monkey’s brain, and then
injected in gradually increasing doses into any other
animal to produce immunity.
» * * #
“Billy Bluegum’s” last yarn:—
As a pastmaster in the art of snaring insects, the
spider isn’t a detail compared with the blue-tongued
lizard. The upper side of the tail and body is
covered with tiny pores, from which the reptile can,
at will, fire jets of a sticky fluid in any desired
direction, and at a surprisingly long range. Watched
one at work the other day, and from the number of
flies, ants, etc., he gathered in this way into his
cerulean gape, I concluded that he can hold his own,
on a tonnage basis, with a fully-equipped Dread-
nought. Offered him some pipe-juice on the end of
a straw by way of a digestive, at which he broad-
sided and fired bow and stern-chasers in a fashion
that decided me on using a longer straw in future.
Under the influence of the “weed” he soon developed
“tobacco heart” in an aggravated form, and lay ap-
parently dead, but after a few minutes recovered,
and declared his willingness to see it out if I would
shift to leeward. I wasn’t having any. By the
way, it is a popular fallacy that snakes and other
reptiles are easily poisoned with nicotine. My clay,
which is strong enough .to shift the sins from a house
and land agent’s conscience, has been tried on reptiles
of all varieties and dimensions from the gohanna
downwards, with the result that, though they go to
by-bye for a time, they invariably recover.
» * * #
“Dick K.”: All previous liars have over-
looked the most truly friendly bush animal. It is a
hairy, wiry biped, of the mammalian order, wearing
a hump on its back and carrying a tin-can in its
forepaw. It generally wears drab monotones, and
has a thirst for beer and a craving for tobacco. It
is a nomadic animal, whose chief habitat is the
bush, though it is sometimes found in city parks.
During the wool season it gathers in large numbers
near shearing-sheds. Farmers detest the animal,
except during harvest-time, when it can sometimes
be induced to work, and its presence in large num-
bers has a tendency to lower wages. It is a pecu-
liarity of the species that the specimens caught are
almost always males, the female being but rarely
seen. I don’t know its name.
* * * *
“Only Me” : Hindruarsh Island (S.A.) now
knows more than it used to about pre-natal influence.
A common or back-yard cat had the misfortune to
have her tail in the way of a door that was closing
with violence, with the result that she lost it. In
the course of time an event happened, and the off-
spring were as tailless as mother. The demand for
tailless cats immediately became great, and exceeded
the supply. Orders were booked ahead, and the
neighbors waited patiently. But when the next
family arrived, tails were the fashion, though they
were nothing for a cat to boast about. The third
lot have just come to hand, again with no tails at
all; and a tote is now being run on future results.
•**.**
“Can-Teen”: I want “Nitellub’s” (B.
27/7/Tl) blood. Having got in holts with a “san-
terpee,” I streaked for the spirits of salts bottle,
put my finger in, and applied the remedy. It cured
the bite all right; that is, it left an excavation where
the bite was. But “Nitellub” never said it should
be the other lunatic’s finger that you dipped in the
acid. The nail is now dropping off, and my tongue
has a small hole in it. The doctor said it served
me right for taking a fool’s advice.
* * * *
“Geofred”: Concerning brilliant snakes.
A party of us, prospecting up at Farmers Creek, in
the Lithgow district (N.S.W.) some years ago, dis-
turbed a chap about sft. long, and colored a bril-
liant blood-red. As he knelt down to quench his
Wowseristic thirst, and the sun shone on his gaudy
back, we were almost convinced that he was a
glorious pink. Unlike the yellow reptiles seen by
“K.P.,” etc., this red snake was quite friendly, and
allowed us to break his back with a stick. He was
bottled and presented to a pub in Lithgow, and he’s
there yet for all I know.
* * * *
“Jeroi”: Which of the Australian bird 3
has the longest food list? Tallawahgs will eat flesh,
fruit, grain, insects and grubs. As to the animal
food, they make a meal of it, whether it has been
dead a day or a fortnight, though I think they
prefer it fresh. They will attack maize crops while
the grain is soft, but are hardly bad enough in this
respect to be called a pest. They also have a
greater number of calls —mimicry excepted—than
any other Australian bird that I know, except per-
haps the oofbird, though none of their notes are
sweetly musical.
* * * *
“Jack Lizard” : For the keenest sense of
smell, I’ll back the fox every time. When Reynard
wants a feed he doesn’t chase the rabbits about or
try to enter the abode by the front door. He selects
a one-room residence, sniffs along till the terminus
is reached, and then burrows down, dropping right
on to the young family, in some cases digging
two and three feet—kittens are never any deeper.
If any Aboliar can produce a sniffer to pull a scent
3ft. below the ground to the surface (must be a
live scent), then new-chum liars are no good on this
page.
THE HANDY MAN.
“Any surgical operations , mowing or
book-keeping to-day, mum? "
“ Why , what on earth are you?”
“Oh, I'm the handy man you read
about in THE BULLETIN
‘ Aboriginalities.'”
“Metropolitan Cat Proprietor”: I don’t
see why this Abo. column should be used solely as
a Bush Liar’s Refuge. Here! lemme in and gimme
room to swing a pen! I want to know (1) what
will make a house cat attend to its job of catching
rats and mice, and (2) is a cat utterly degraded
and useless when it greedily devours the cold, stark
corpses of the vermin captured in the trap set by
its disgusted proprietor? Some months ago a friend
burdened my household with a cat which is a nuis-
ance to me in about 75 different ways. It strews
itself in my path, invites friends round to sing after
hours, secretes itself at locking-up time, and has to
be searched for and thrown out; kills birds; has
vulgar squabbles with the brute next door, and (last
straw!) yells at me in the most insulting way for
donations of milk and meat! I would gladly write
off its sins if it would only catch rats, but it won’t.
Is there any way of curing that animal of being use-
less, or do I just have to treat it with the old re-
liable mixture of brick, rope and river?
A CERTAINTY.
THEATRICAL MANAGER : “No te-r-r-r-rain,
sir? No coach, sir? Then, b' Gad, sir,
the company will walk. ”
THE MELANCOMEDIAN : “The whole company?"
T. M. (emphatically): “ The WHOLE com-
pany!”
T.M.: “Betcher a quid, sir, the ghost don’t."
“Duffer”: Re the Bananaland drover
Broadhurst taking 2065 fat bullocks from Roslyn sta-
tion to Gladstone meat works without losing a single
beast (B. 10/8/’ll). That’s nothing. I knew a
drover who started from a station in the Gulf with
1200 mixed cattle, and arrived at Charleville five
months later with 1235 and a calf. He didn’t buy
any meat, alive or dead, en route either. But he
was one of the old hands, and knew his business.
* * * *
“Pick”: I cannot say at what rate the
death-adder dyes his clothes to match his new sur-
roundings, but, for a lightning-change artist, I can
recommend the jungar or devil-fish. If chased off a
sand bank, whereon his garments will be found the
straw hue of the sand, to the muddy bottom of the
lake, his coat will adopt the greeny-black of the
ooze, with a speed and precision that would do
credit to a Wadeite when his chief fires the gun.
“Mallarapoonie”: That wearisome old
bogey about the ill-treatment of natives in the nor’-
west of W.A. is threatening to bob up again. That
the niggers out there get a fairly rough time goes
without saying; but the saving feature is they are
a mighty tough race. As a general rule, they get a
fairly square deal, and any extra kind of rough time
they may hit against mostly arises out of white
fellows’ horse-play. Race hatred is practically non-
existent. Of course, the white man is severe when
he takes the law into his hand in cases of misdeeds
by natives, and the evildoer is mostly made to wish
himself temporarily dead; but the severity is mostly
tempered by justice. j.n fact, the of justice
meted out to his black brother by a rough but
decent class of white man in North Australia is
rather astonishing when one comes to recognise the
brand of it. It is the'justice of primitive man—the
horse-sense brand that obtained before hair wigs and
silk gowns were invented. As regards a remedy for
trouble with natives in North Australia, I arise to
remark that there isn’t any—none, that is, beyond
the ordinary course of Nature, which points to the
extinction, sooner or later, of the black race. In
the meantime, justice tempered with severity needs
to be handed out to both sides —especially the
white, and it is time the lower-class white got his
share. For a start, miscegenation (combo-ism)
should be declared a crime throughout the North of
Australia, and white men handed penal servitude for
harboring native women. That reform alone would
go a long way towards bettering the status of races
in the North. The usual misdemeanors (such as
cattle killing on one side, and ill-treatment of
natives on the other) can be dealt with as usual, if
usual is looked on in a common-sense light. Other-
wise, seeing that reservations for natives and- other
weird proposals are ’ foredoomed to failure, there is
nothing for it but to wait the aforementioned course
of Nature; but waiting isn’t much of a game unless
one has tucker and blankets with, him.
“K.V.8.” (from Bisjohn’s jarrah coun-
try) : Can any Aboliar tell me how to get rid of
the small red ant which abounds here in millions?
Recently we made jam, cleaned a wooden safe
thoroughly with strong lysol, stood the four legs in
tins of water, and stirred the confectionery. In the
morning the ants were in it—even into the jam
under the paper covers. A Mrs. Aboliar assured me
that they carry straws and float them on the water,
and thus get into the safe, but I haven’t found any
straws, and a million of them couldn’t eat a straw
in order to destroy the clue to their crime. They
seem to come from nowhere —suddenly loom into
existence like “Liberal” ladies at afternoon tea-time.
» * * *
“Eryandei-” : To “X-Burner” (B. 3/8/’ll).
The so-called “pine-adder” is not venomous, and the
effects mentioned were probably due to blood-poison-
ing, which may supervene upon the neglected bite
of any animal—man included. The only venomous
lizard known to herpetology is the Mexican helo-
derma, a repulsive-looking creature, which reaches
about a foot in length. It has a dirty brown-and-
yellow, warty skin, and, unlike the snakes, injects
its venom through an under-jaw fang. Also, the
gecko is a true lizard, and is consequently not
“allied more or less to the newt,” which belongs to
the Urodela, or tailed batrachians—the tailess ditto
being the frogs and toads. The salamander is an-
other tailed batrachian, and takes its name from the
fabulous creature that, according to the classic (not
American-Indian) myth, lived in fire, and died when
withdrawn from the flames.
“Billy T.”: I am old enough to have
learned that all the conventional rules for the judg-
ment of human character are practically valueless, and
would like believers to find a category for Mander-
son. I saw him blubber for 20 minutes when a fire-
bar at the Hand and Band burnt through his boot,
and singed a blister on his heel. But when Jacker,
the engine-driver, derided' him for the blubbering,
he waded into Jacker, and fought him nine violent
rounds. In fact, Manderson was as ready to fight
as he was to weep. He would cry dolorously while
he fought, but he wouldn’t stop fighting. He was
afraid of the dark, and when on night-shift he
walked half a mile round Pinnacle Hill to dodge
the Winda cemetery. He had a mortal aversion to
cats, and ran a wire-net about his bed because of
his belief that a large black cat, with yellow eyes,
would come some night and “suck away his breath”
while he slept; and he fainted like a woman on
discovering a tarantula on his wrist. He beat his
father, aged 78, with a weapon ingeniously devised
out of a cow’s tail loaded with battery sand ; yet he
fought Elliott’s bull with a pick to save a broken-
legged fox-terrier. And when the drive caved on
Bittern’s shift at the Hand and Band, he was first
of the rescue party into the black, broken workings,
and last to leave. He forsook Winda stealthily by
night to avoid a fight with a little fellow named
Hacket, who had kicked him halfway through the
township on the preceding evening ; and 18 months
later we heard of him receiving the Humane So-
ciety’s medal for extinguishing a charge in a mine
at Eaglehawk, and saving life. Where, then, is
Manderson’s niche in the popular gallery of human
sorts ?
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie” meets the Dago under-
ground :
Antonio Superfluous (native of that delightful
Macaroni country which finds such a warm place in
the hearts of Randolph Bedford and others) slowly
finished rolling a cigarette, lit it from his candle,
stabbed the point of the “spider” into the Oregon
bulkhead that supported part of No. 1 plat in
the Great Fingall mine at Day Dawn (W.A.), and
spoke.
“Sefen year I come des Dubbla-u A. country
—fife year I wor-r-k des Fingall mine. Des Dubbla-u
A. country he goodt for-r weges; he no goodt for-r
live. Eetalee man he no stopa des countree for-r
long. Fife, seex, sefen year he worka da mine; he
safe da fife, seex, sefen huntre’ poun’. He go
Eetallee nefer come back.
“Nong, des countree lan’ no goodt for-r settle, no
goodt for-r live. Sefen huntre’ poun’ een Eetalee
ver’ goodt; growa da ongeh, da olive, da grape—
getta da wine shop een Meelan, no more work. Nex’
year I go Eetalee, nefer come back.
“Nong, des companee, da Bewick More, he no lika
da Austrelia-man for-r wor-rk. Eetalee man more
betta. Austrelia-man too much he talka da back-
ansa. By gorry, no more I hava da Austrelia-man
worka for-r me.; Las’ year I getta da beeg contrac’
for-r sheeft da battery san’- —ten tousan’ ton. Da
companee lenda da horse for-r pusha da truck.
Eetalee man he no much goodt for-r drive da horse.
Boss say, ‘Putta da Breetish man for-r drive da
horse.’ By gorry, I trya heem. He no goodt for-r
me. I getta da contrac’ ; I wanta da Eetalee man
for-r wor-rk. My countree man I tella heem pusha
da truck, he pusha da truck. Da Breetish man I
tella heem pusha da truck; he say, ‘Gout yer bleety
Ski ; you pusha da truck youseluf.’
“Nong, mister-r, des Breetish man no goodt for-r
me.”
DISTURBED.
THE BURGLAR: “Gad! I can stand pistols,
coppers and man-traps, but this vermin
beats me!”
“Jack Jay”: Another coincidence. Jor-
kins, after long and wordy koreros, had agreed with
Henare to buy the latter’s bit of earth. The day for
completing the sale came round, but Henare died that
morning. Jorkins, however, behaved so well at the
tangi that he had little difficulty in practically com-
pleting the bargain with Henare’s heir. But on the
morning of the final negotiations Henare’s heir was
also dead. In view of Maori superstition, Jorkins is
afraid to mention the matter again, lest he should be
the next link in the chain.
BAKEHOUSE ENGLISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Why does the baker knead the dough?”
Enquired my son, aged six or sough,
And I replied in accents lough:
“Because we knead the bread, you knough!”
“But then, why do we need the bread?”
The same enquiring youngster sead. ’
“Because small boys have to be fead,”
Quoth I. “Now, off you go to bead!”
K.s.w.
OWEN DEED.


THE ARRIVAL*
Same old congestion id Sydney Har-
bor. The ship is sent to Pyrmont.
A RETROSPECT.
In this respect Australia Is different
from some nigger countries where
you hire two men to carry your
luggage, and at the hotel find It
niggers, all so like the first two
Identification is Impossible,
waiting to be paid.
AN OLD FRIEND.
A “Liberal” acquaintance conveys
the sad new. that owing to recent Labor
■“encroachments” the country has
really gone to the dogs at last.
f Jetting away *’ r °"“ *, t who says
Liberal he , " eet * ha. been doing
the Uibor Government d
- “ n, “
down to haye a look at
EJECTINa A member.
He Is Informed that the decay of Par-
llamentary Institutions I. »o marked
that the freshly-appointed N.S.W.
Sneaker now keeps order with art axe
f„ P stead o. a mace. H. decides tojgo to
the gallery that same afternoon and see
the fun.
JUST SO.
The railway station prove, to be the
game old congested spectacle.
NOT A DISAPPOINTMENT
. Filled with forebodings the
- returned Bulletin man gets
S into a tramcar about 5 p.m.,
“ and finds that the vehicle has
* become no more commodious
| during his absence
A PROTEST.
Tne same old horse and cab are out-
side the suburban station. Demoralised
(perhaps) by democratic government,
the animal makes a remark of his own.
AN ANCIENT EVIL.
The cabman’s desire for ready cash
Is unchanged.
FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF A RETURNED "BULLETIN” MAN.


Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are a safe and certain remedy for Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Liver Troubles, Flatulence, Anaemia, etc.
Sold at lOid. and Is. 6d.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY,
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
20th Century Moleskin.
The Best for Hard Wear.
Registered Trade Mark.
((WARRANTED PURECOTTON?}!
See that the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Garments nan be obtained at all Storekeepers.
PERSNAL
ITEMS
“ FATHER ”
COLVIN,
WHO SUC-
CEEDED
WILFORD
AS CHAIR-
MAN OF
COMMIT-
TEES, M.L.
PARLIAMENT.
Speaker Jenkin Coles (S.A.) is still so ill
that it again' seems unlikely that he will ever
go back to the chair of the Assembly.
Agent-General Kirkpatrick (S.A.), who
was due to retire in March next, has been in-
vited to keep going for another 12 months,
and has agreed to do it. “Kirk,” who was
one of the first Labor members elected to the
S.A. Parliament, was Chief Secretary in the
Price Government. For many years he was
a compositor on the Adelaide Advertiser.
Lewis Cohen has decided to drop out of
the mayoralty of Adelaide, having held it for
(in all) seven years, which beats E. T.
Smith and everyone else on the local record.
John Baker, who was moving up into the
mayoralty as a matter of course when Cohen
made a sudden reappearance in municipal
affairs two years ago, is in England, and the
position seems likely to go without opposi-
tion to Lavington Bonython, a young aider-
man, and son of Langdon Bonython, of the
Advertiser.
Died a week or so back, Charles T. New-
man, Australia’s wealthiest Methodist par-
son. Or, rather, it was the parson’s wife
who was wealthy; she was a daughter of
Sydney’s preposterously wealthy merchant
and coal-mine owner, Ebenezer Vickery—
the old gentleman who once writted The
Bulletin for saying he was going to be
married again in his old age, and then did
remarry within three months. Deceased
son-in-law Newman married his monied lady
in his old age, too, after a pretty strenuous
financial struggle; for the Methodist parson
has to cut things fine to pull through, and
Newman never had the “money sense.” Still
he was a nice, comfortable-looking old gen-
tleman, and, though he had a horror of his
singer-son going on the stage, he didn’t
wowse to any serious extent.
“Adelaide”: “Vagabond’s” pleasant idea
(B. 24/8/T1) of making church popular by
having refreshments in it, recalls a member
of one of S.A.’s best known squatting families
of a generation back. In summer-time, when
a party staying in the house had been driven
over to their country church, the youth’s
habit was to stroll out of his pew during
the hymn before the sermon, and hand a
hatful of peaches round among his friends,
to fortify them against the approaching
trial.
J. Maddern, now living in Adelaide, was
resident at Swan Hill at the time Burke
and Wills crossed the Murray. In the ful-
ness of their enthusiasm the residents a year
or two later decided to build an obelisk to
the memory of the dead explorers. Mad-
dern was instructed to build it, but when
part of the work had been completed, a stop-
page occurred for lack of funds. The monu-
ment was never finished, and the con-
tractor is still waiting tor his pay.
Joseph Vardon, Senator and Saint, has
just returned to Adelaide from the Crown-
ing, with an expression of Christian charity
on his face, and a deadly hatred of the
Labor party in his soul. But Australia made
a mistake when it thought that he was not
representing it as lie ought to do, for Sena-
-lor Vardon, when he was in England, visited
the London City Council, and, as lie says
in an awed voice to the press interviewers,
“sat between two carls!"
A Swedish scientific party of four, now
“doing” Australia, has put in nearly a year
in the north-west corner, and has just come
east. Dr. Mjoberg, the youthful leader, is
paying half the cost, the rest being found by
his Government. He says that European
museums know next to nothing of Australian
flora and fauna, and to help clear up the
ignorance he and his three companions
have secured about 1500 important speci-
mens—many of them quite new to him—and
thousands of smaller beasts. The West-
ralian Government has been very helpful,
and the grateful Swedes are going to see
that Perth Museum profits accordingly.
Sir Herbert Tree (who has dropped the
Beerbohm), speaking of his brother actor-
manager Alexander as “Sir George,” re-
marked in ecstatic parenthesis: “How fit-
ting was the honor the King has done him!”
It was fitting. “Knighthood” nowadays
should be conferred only upon people who
can wear it like a tin crown, and carry it
with artistic stage effect. The serious actors
—such as Tree and Alexander —have a right
to protest against its being given to mere
political performers of the George Reid
and late Tom Bent grade, who wear it like
a circus clown’s cap in association with a
low-comedy circumference and a waddle.
The late J. G. Hornblower, of South
Yarra (Vic.), left behind him a treasure
equal in interest to the old Geelong “Direc-
tory,” picked up lately by J. F. Hogan (B.
17/8/T1), which contained an advt. of
Henry Parkes’s ivory and bone-turning busi-
ness. It was a directory of Birmingham of
1830, in which was a business announcement
of John Holding, of Moseley-street, bone and
ivory turner, in the margin was a note
stating: “Henry Parkes was apprenticed to
this gentleman.” The note was probably
written by Hornblower himself, as he was a
friend 9!' Parkes’s in his boyhood. A letter
from him to Annie T. Parkes is printed in
one of arkes’s books.
“Lex” on a great battle of Costs:—
The Coal Vend case has been, amongst other
things, the triumph of B. R. Wise. His onening ad-
dress, which inspired Professor MacCallum to remariv
that the Sydney K.C. was “among the greatest living
masters of the English language,” looked an easy
feat on the surface, by reason of its clearness anil
simplicity of arrangement. It drew from Anti-Sosh,
which nowadays is none too partial to Wise, the re-
mark that everyone knew B.R.W. to be a brilliant
speaker, and that the effort proved no more than
that. His reply, which lasted 14 days, gave these
carpers their answer. Ten thousand documents were
analysed with meticulous care, and their contents
laid before the Court in the tersest, plainest terms
—an extraordinary feat of industry and physical
strength. Whichever way judgment goes, the Vend
case leaves Wise intellectually the undisputed
leader of the N.S.W. Bar.
J. F. Hogan, from London (16/7/T1) :
Cardinal Moran, at 80, can turn out “copy” with
the facility and smartness of some of the youngest of
us. To the new volume of that colossal Yankee
enterprise, “The Catholic Encyclopaedia,” he con-
tributes articles on St. Palladius and St. Patrick.
The latter would fill six or eight pages of Tiie
Bulletin. Of course the Cardinal has St. Pat’s life
at his finger-tips; still it is a notable achievement
for a man of his age. He says many people suppose
that St. Patrick’s conversion of the Irish to Chris-
tianity was “a series of peaceful triumphs, whereas
it was quite the reverse.” The Irish of 1500 years
ago were just as fond of a fight as they are to-day,
and St. Pat had a dozen fierce scrimmages with the
Druids and other Hibernian pagans of his time. But
he had more courage and determination than Palla-
dius, and he won in the final round. Palladius seems
to have been a cowardly sort of chap, who cleared
out of Ireland at the first sight of danger, and why
he was made a saint is a bit of a conundrum.
Some September birthdays : —Broken Hill
Manager Delprat, 55 on the Ist; ex-Minis-
ter J. A. Hogue (N.S.W.). 65 on the 2nd;
John Warren, M.-u.C. (S.A.), the most
fossilised politician of his State, 81 on the
4th: ex-Premier Jenkins (S.A.), 60, and
Professor Stirling (Adelaide University), 63
on the Sth; Demon Bowler Spofforth, 56 on
the 9th; Cherubic Dr. Bevan, 69 on the
11th; Bishop Frodsliam, 48 on the 14th;
Logan Jack (Q.), 66 on the 16th; Clement
Wragge, 59 on the 18th; Arthur Morgan
(Q.), 55 on the 19th; “Plevna” Ryan 58,
and Sheriff Schomburgk (S.A.'). 54 on the
20th; Bishop Dunne (Broken Hill) 65, Dr.
Elkington 40, and John Carr (Australia’s
oldest politician), 92 on the 21st; Colonel
Foxton, 62 on the 24th; Attorney-General
Hughes, 47 on the 25th; Dr. Strong (Aus-
tralian Church), 67 on the 26th; Senator
Symon, 65, and Education Minister Coney-
beer (S.A.), 52 on the 27th.
M.L.A. Hampson, in Victoria, told another
honorable member the other evening that
when the hon. member was in the South
African war he was court-martialled for
“pinching a bridle. The hon. member in-
dignantly cried “No!” and Peacock inter-
jected that a bridle was of no account in
those days of loot. But what was the story?
Hampson should have told a little more.
THE MA STATE'S NEW SPEAKER ,
HENRY WILLIS, WITH HIS EYE
ON THE OPPOSITION.
“Jimmy” _ Carroll, who has been acting-
Prime Minister of Maoriland while lousepli
Ward crept stealthily after the elusive
baronetcy, turned into the 55th lap on
Time’s track the other day. lie has been
a member of the Reps, continuously since
1887 and a Minister of the Crown since
1894, and he is so well-liked by palceha and
Maori alike that even his recent acceptance
of the cheap title which is thrown to Gaud
Mayors and flag-wagging linen drapers may
be overlooked in time.
Melbourne Argus recently made a splash
with the old story of the theft of the steamer
Ferret in 1881, basing the article on a book
published lately in America dealing with the
adventures of one Captain George B. Boyn-
ton. This book alleged that Boynton smug-
gled Chows into N. S. Wales, and received
150dols. a head from Quong Tart, of Syd-
ney, for them. The indignant denial which
this has drawn from Mrs. Margaret Tart,
Quong’s widow, concludes with the interest-
ing remark that the lady is preparing a bio-
graphy of the founder of the house of Tart,
which will appear in a few weeks.
All sorts of things may happen to a State
Premier in Australia. Verran, of S. Aus.,
with Treasurer Vaughan for a mate, was re-
cently exploring the sandhills of Eyre’s Pen-
insula, when the motor-car ran into a patch
with an unusually strong embrace, and re-
fused to budge. The chauffeur cursed,
Vaughan dug, and Verran pushed till the
perspiration dropped from him like truth
from an “Abo.” writer. But it was no good,
and finally the driver had to tramp 20 odd
miles for a horse, while the parliamentarians
put in the night in the scrub.
Widow Duerdin has just died, aged 93.
Her husband was not the very first Vic-
torian attorney, though he began in 1839,
and so wasn’t beaten by much. Sixty years
ago he built a mansion, with brick wall and
large garden, on the corner of Flinders and
Exhibition streets. There he had a fine
cellar; but he stocked it with law books in-
stead of wine. He and Clark were the rival
prosperous solicitors in young Melbourne:
the well-known firm to which he belonged
became Duerdin, Bronckhorst and Smale.
The fine solid mansion which he built is in
these days a “hostel,” which is Toorak for
hashhouse.
“Jimmy” Chamberlain, the best-known press-
man in Adelaide, has forsaken journalism,
and taken a job in the Tourist Bureau. Too
long ago to be remembered with comfort, he
started his inky career on the Advertiser,
and threatened to grow into its oldest in-
habitant ; but when the Labor Herald
turned into a daily, he sprang a surprise by
joining the staff as night sub. An enthusi-
astic bohemian, with a tenor voice like
cream buns, Chamberlain is pretty certain
to be a success in taking the fleeting visitor
gently by the ear and singing to him about
the wonderful things he’ll miss if he doesn’t
put in at least a month in S. Aus.
The late “Dinny” Keogh, member for Rose-
wood in the Queensland Parliament, was
best known to his intimates as “Shin Fane,”
his usual toast when observing the great
Queensland custom. Though a thoroughly
unreliable politician, “Dinny” was a good
storyteller, and many of his yarns were told
against himself. He was shingling a roof,
and _ had assisting him a newchum com-
patriot. The newchum was carrying up the
shingles. As he placed a bundle handv for
the just-elected member, Dinny said: “Pat,
you’d be a long time in Ireland before you'd
be handing up shingles to a member of Par-
liament.” “Faith, an’ I would,” was the
answer; “but, Mr. Keogh, you’d be a long-
time in Ireland before you’d be a member of
Parliament.”
Melbourne has three more “silks” at the
Bar—Leon, Gurner and Woinarski. And
M . C. Guest, the Commissioner of Titles, is
put up to the same dignity.
At Sotheby's, in London, the other day, a
Mr. Sabin gave £451 for the stray leaf of
the journal of Captain Cook’s first voyage,
m which the navigator mentions that he
gave the place “the name of Botanist Bay.”
George Long, the new Anglican Bishop
of Bathurst (N.S.W.), is a mere boy, as
bishops go. He is but 36 years of age", and
lias been only 10 years in orders; and seven
years of even that brief time have been
spent as headmaster of Trinity Grammar
School, Melbourne.
“B” recalls another case:—
Now that we know all about it, I think
Prime Minister Fisher got oft very well in his inter-
view with “Julia” Stead. Don’t you remember
Stead's description of his interview with Dr. Cook
on that worthy’s return from the North Pole? It
was in Copenhagen, and the crowd was full of
joyous welcome, and pressed close to the explorer.
“I was immediately behind him,” wrote Stead (or
Julia, as the case may be) ; “1 flung my arms round
him under his armpit. ... My face was close
against Dr. Cook’s left ear, and as we swayed back-
wards and forwards, 1 began a series of ‘Talks with
Dr. Cook,’ which I shall embody in this character-
sketch. I was close to him in all conscience. If I
did not hug him to my heart, 1 had a good hearty
grip of him round the chest.” Fisher explains that
Stead pushed into his bedroom for only seven
minutes (Julia stayed outside on the mat, I hope) ;
and as he doesn’t talk of having been gripped or hugged
or talked to through the left ear, he may consider
himself lucky.
The Oldest Inhabitant—still among the
Tombs —
In reply to “Tomaso” (B. 24/8/'ll), let me sav
that I never had the impression that Margaret Catch-
pole and Mary Haydock—afterwards Mrs. Raby (the
original spelling)—were one and the same. The
mere fact that the Launceston lteibeys (new spell-
ing) objected to the “Margaret Catehpole” play, did
not indicate that they were the descendants of Mar-
garet Catehpole. Forty years ago yellow-back edi-
tions of Cobbold’s “Catehpole” book were in circu-
lation, and book-hawkers used to say, “If you take
that book to Councillor I , he’ll give you half a
crown for it.” The imputation was that the learned
Councillor, being a grandson of Mrs. Reibey, was
anxious to buy up the book. But that was a mere
trick of the trade. Mary Haydock was an educated
girl when she came to Sydney ; Margaret Catehpole
was an uneducated woman, verging on middle-age.
There are some students of our history who say that
the woman buried by Parson Fulton, in 1819, was
bribed to personate Margaret, and that the parson
was unaware of the fact. The late George Matcham
Pitt, shortly before his death, at a good age, remem-
bered that his mother often spoke of Margaret Catch-
pole, and told how, when nursing one of the Pitt
household, she caught the infection and died. The
popular error in connecting the two women lies in
the fact that one came from Bury, in Lancashire,
and the other from Bury, in Suffolk, and that both
visited Australia for a somewhat similar trans-
gression. To-day it would be called “horse-sweat-
ing” or “illegally using.” There was certainly a
difference between the two transgressions: Margaret
tried to sell her horse; Mary threw the bridle over
the pony’s head and sent him home.
DR. HAM, CHAIRMAN OF THE
BOARD OF HEALTH (VIC.).
Labor Government or not, the legend in
N. S. Wales is still, “No Australians need
apply,” so far as the Education Department
is concerned. Despite the comparative
failure of the imported Mackie as Principal
of the Training College, and the Imported
Tearne as musical director, the Department
is chancing its luck with W. J. Elliott, M.A.,
Cambridge. This gentleman is to fill a
new position as inspector of secondary
schools; the ordinary inspector of State
schools, being merely Australian, is not
“class” enough. And then, when the good
billets are passed out to imported persons
with poorer qualifications than dozens of
local men possess, the Department wonders
whv it can’t get recruits for the service.
THE OLDEST INHABITANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Barry, of Melbourne, informs us that,
according to an eminent German anthropological
authority, Dr. Otto Schoetensack, Australia is the
only garden of Eden science can recognise. This
country must have been the cradle of the human
race, since it offered primitive man the conditions in
which a weakly, unarmed, comparatively-brainless
human could face the struggle for existence in the
absence of dangerous rivals such as would have beset
him in pliocene times on other parts of the earth’s
surface.
When Adam delved and Eve span,
Declares one Otto Schoetensack,
The couple were Australi-aw.
Within our groves the infant man
Tramped out the first known human track
With baby feet. Here wicked Cain
Put brother Abel out of pain,
And Adam ate that apple snack.
Here man possessed the perfect place,
Until his silly wife went wrong,
Imposing by her conduct base
The sad discomfort and disgrace
Of trousers on the human throng.
When Cain went journeying to Nod—
A course that’s been considered odd—
He humped his bluey to Geelong!
And East—in Eden—says the Book,
A splendid garden did He set,
And from this garden flowed a brook,
For which perchance ’tis vain to look
Where now the dusty yabby strays.
But from these proofs we do unfold
The fact that Havilah of old
Is called Yass-Berra nowadays.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


mt*
i"‘\ \J ■<* 1 rx.r"\ «**. i r"!
*****VA¥4&6&
w,
*■*? vs
ll*
\
W-'
S*"BMFNHk-'£' Mill J
m»
m
m/jttiM ftf/tftuL
53*
£l
y/Wr''''
*smuh*
4^
\»<IIW
no
The Spring Carnival, 1911—The Record Year!
TN a month’s time the “1911 Spring Carnival’’—the greatest Racing Carnival since Carbine’s Cup-will be in full swing Recent
f rains have swollen the full tide of prosperity, and all the world and his wife will be there Everything indicates that this year s
* Derby is going to be the best dressed I The demand for new Suits will be phenomena], and we have made the most carefu
preparations to meet the demand, but we must have orders early to ensure satisfaction. The fullest range of new Suitings has een
opened up by us, and we shall be glad to receive a call, or a postcard will fetch you patterns and self-measurement forms. We pay
zarriage on all orders throughout Australia, and quote: —
1. “The Austral" to Measure 635 " 70s ‘ and 75s ‘
2. “The Austral” Special Hand Made - 84s -
3. The Gowing Special Hand Made, Best Lining - £4 10s„ £4 15s„ and £.5 ss.
4. The Gowing Ideal Hand Made, Silk Lined throughout, unequalled - - £6 6s.
GOWING
486, 488 and 490 George Street; and 7,9, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


WORTHINGTON PUMPS
For
SERVICES.
GAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
Amy 32-34 CLARENCE .STREET, SYDNEY
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.,
» ww. a ... »
MELBOUR * E
and SYDNEY.
<1
P.P.” Grease & "P.P.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
PULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION. Sole Agents for Queensland, E.S.C.A., Ltd., Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney
In Reduc-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
Jail., 1905.. £15,554 4 p.c. = £ll,OOO £4,554 £60,5(3
July, 1906.. 11,842 4 „ ~ 11,000 842 59,661
Jan., 1906.. 9,930 4 „ „ 11,000 60,731
Reserve funds (£18,000) written off; capital
written down from £550,000 to £400,000
(goodwill reduced to £22,500), leaving .. 16,231
July, 1906.. 12,128 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,128 14,103
Jan., 1907.. 11,528 5 ~ „ 10,000 1,528 12,575
July, 1907.. 13,471 5 ~ „ 10,000 3,471 9,104
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Jan., 1908.. 19,964 5 ~ „ 10,000 9,964 860
July, 1908.. 13,977 5 ~ ~ 10,000 3,977 4,837
Jan., 1909 . 18,796 5 „ ~ 10,000 8,796 13,633
July, 1909.. 17,545 5 „ „ 10,000 7,545 21,178
Jan., 1910.. 19,911 5 ~ „ 10,000 9,911 31,089
July, 1910.. 20,025 6 ~ ~ 12.000 8,025 39,114
Jan., 1911.. 22,756 6 ~ ~ 12,000 10,756 49,870
July, 1911.. 20,398 6 „ „ 12,000 8,398 58,268
The co. was floated in 1902 ; and, as Sydney had just
previously been making the Duke o’ York the excuse
for many extra drinks, the figures were so big that
when the two Tooheys asked £85,000 for the good-
will, the public simply rushed the brokers. Soon, how-
ever, the State’s beer began to lose some of its sparkle ;
and then it was realised that properties and other
assets had been valued on a wrong basis. As the
table shows, some very solid writing-down followed.
The Toohey estates came out of the reconstruction
with much credit; they voluntarily returned 50,000
of their £1 shares, and that and the writing-down
of all the other shares from' 20s. to 165., allowed of
the writing-down of the goodwill to £22,500 ; and
other assets were also reduced substantially. Even
then things were on the turn in Sydney, and in the
past five years the pot of prosperity has been grow-
ing bigger and bigger, and the froth on the top of it
has foamed higher and higher. Hence, after writing-
off £4OOO for depreciation of plant, the 6 p.c. div.
is nowadays very comfortably earned; in fact, the
past 12 months’ net profit was rather more than 10J
p.c. on the capital. Certainly, the Wowser is in the
land, marching up and down to see which pub he
will devour next; but, though he may succeed in
closing a pub here and there, he doesn’t seem able to
reduce the public’s appetite for beer. Whereas the
gross profits from brewings, etc., were only £31,629
in the first half of 1906, they were £52,921 in the
past six months—which doesn’t say much for the
Wowser’s success. Nevertheless, the Wowser has to
be reckoned with: and not only the confirmed
Wowser, but the man who is incline'd to vote for pub-
reduction on general principles. In the first place, it
costs the brewing co. a heap of money to fight for
“the trade” ; in the second place, this and other
brewing cos. own many pub-premises which owe more
than half their value to their licenses. It is impos-
sible to tell from the accounts how much of this
pub property the Toohey co. owns, because the man-
agement has the lumping habit, and piles the pubs
on top of the breweries, and buries the plant and the
rolling-stock in the heap. For the same reason it
isn’t possible to even get a hint as to whether a fair
amount is being written-off to cover depreciation.
The comparison probably isn’t worth much ; but this,
anyhow, shows how various items have moved: —
July, Jan., July,
1906. 1911. 1911.
Liabilities, less cash .. .. £55,569 £25,248 £44,596
Breweries, hotels, etc. .. 322,139 345,138 347,475
Stocks 59,945 55,712 72,703
Book debts .. .. .. 100,882 112,767 121,187
Gross profit on brewings, etc. 31,629 56,107 52,291
Rent and interest .. .. 7,629 6,756 8,082
Management, wages and
charges 27,130 36,107 35,974
Book debts are yery heavy; but the growth isn’t out
of proportion to the growth of the turnover. The
brewery business is very profitable—has been so for
very many years, and is likely to continue so for very
many more years. The only doubt of much conse-
quence is as to the probable future value of
hotel properties. If they slump, then, of course, big
bites come out of the profit from the sale of beer.
But, as before mentioned, there is no evidence as to
the quantity of this shrinkable variety of property
which the co. has in its possession.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan,
Gray and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane):—
Added Nominal
Written to Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £10,981 Nil £7,757 £3224 £14,575
1901.. 9,538 Nil 22,863 1,250
1902.. 9,026 Nil 9026 10,276
1903.. 7,499 5 p.c. = £3750 3749 14,025
1904.. 4,311 5 „ „ 3750 561 14,586
1905.. 3,983 5 ~ ~ 3855 128 14,714
1906.. 4,177 5 „ ~ 3855 322 15,036
1907.. 5,025 5 „ ~ 3855 1170 16,206
1908.. 5,106 5 „ „ 3'55 1251 17,457
1909.. 6.369 5 ~ ~ 3557 -- 2512 19,969
1910.. 7,478 5 ~ ~ 3857 3621 23,590
1911.. 7,329 5 ~ ~ 3960 3369 26,959
Like almost every other concern in Queensland, this
one came a cropper over the boom of the early ’9o’s.
The State didn’t get much change out of that boom
except experience, and it is beginning to be doubt-
ful whether the experience did it much good. Any-
way, it is doing now many of the things that it
did then. Fortunately, so far the banks appear to
be keeping their heads, otherwise one would expect
that shortly there would happen just such another
disaster as put the State into sackcloth and ashes
in 1893, and kept it there for about a dozen years.
In fact, some of the old suit is still being worn —
by the Q. N. Bank, for instance, which, in spite of
the State’s prosperity and its own big business, is
still not in a position to pay a dividend. This
brewery co.’s share of the ashes was the writing-off
of one-half of the capital as lost. That cleaning-up
was done in 1902-3, whereupon the co. crept back
on to the div. list with a modest 5 p.c. ; and it
hasn’t felt justified in going beyond that since.
Still, good progress seems to have been made:—
1900. 1908. 1909. 1910. 1911.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. .. 150,075 77,147 77,147 77,147 77,272
Liabilities (less cash
balances) .. 111,613 67,047 64,267 60,751 59,970
Premises, plant,
etc 141,535 90,180 89,857 90,965 83,196
Hotels .. .. 57,165 18,700 18,700 15,700 14,700
Stocks and debtors 76,809 54,797 54.851 59,202 68,333
Revenue .. .. 33,358 25,006 28,868 29,601 29,2«0
Expenses .. .. 22,377 19,900 22,499 22,026 21,950
Or, to put it another way:—
1902. 1910. 1911.
Liabilities £79.101 £63,106 £62.315
Stock and other liquid assets 57,017 59,202 70,678
Excess liabilities .. .. £22,084 £3,904
Surplus £8,363
Thus, in the past nine years (1902 was the last
year before the axe was used on the capital) an im-
provement of £30,447 has taken place in what may
be called the cash position, though certainly stock
and book-debts are hardly cash. It may, of course,
be that the co. has sold some freehold properties
or other non-liquid assets ; but there is no reason to
believe that it is so. “Freehold properties, build-
ings, machinery, plant, goodwill and rolling stock,
etc.,” have come down in book-value from £88,907
to £83,196 in the nine years; but that reduction
probably represents part of the amount written-off
against depreciation. The other part is represented
by new purchases. Assuming that the book-debts are
as good now as they were in 1902 and the stock as
conservatively valued, it seems, therefore, safe to say
that the co. has improved its position by at least
the £30,447 in the nine years, after paying the
moderate dividends. A shrinkage in profits is shown
for the past year as compared with its predecessor.
This is no doubt due to the fact that the three
Brisbane brewery birds haven’t been able to agree
in their little nest, and have been pecking one an-
other in an absurd manner.
* * * *
The Maobiland State Fike Insukance Office,
which began regular business early in January, 1905
(the deficit up to then represents preliminary ex-
penses) :
Ex- Added to De-
Dec., Revenue. Claims, penses. Reserves. licit.
1904.. £1,026 £1,026
1905.. £13,136 £2,418 6,738 £3,980 2,954
1906.. 20,991 10,312 7,215 3,464 6,418
1907.. 23,302 12,701 8,355 2,246 8,664
1908.. 26,909 18,904 10,146 6,523
1909.. 34,038 18,535 10,155 5,348 11,871
1910.. 41,788 18,914 11,478 11,396 23,267
This office had a tough fight, which it didn’t go into
with much daring, but it appears to be winning
through. It began with an actual paid capital of
£2OOO, the amount being advanced by the State;
but, being a State business, every policy it wrote
was backed by the whole taxable wealth of the coun-
try. Probably never before was a policy issued with
such a guarantee behind it. The State had been
driven to take a hand in the business by complaints
of the excessive rates charged by the insurance cos.,
and consequently the excessive profits made out of
what nowadays is really an everyday necessity. As
soon, howeyer, as the State office showed its nose,
the rates were hauled down hand over fist; therefore,
the benefit conferred by this department on the
general body of insurers is enormously greater than
one would judge by merely looking at the office’s
own figures. According to the general-manager,
the reductions “ranged up to 33J p.c. on the greater
portion of the fire premiums for the Dominion.” It
was, of course, expected that that would lay the
babv-office in its little coffin. But the plan mis-
carried ; and the increasing success of the office
shows that very handsome profits can be made out
of the much-reduced premiums—which is the best
of evidence that the old rates were more than a fair
thing. Certainly it can’t be professed that in six
years the office has made a clear profit of £23,267
on a capital of £2OOO, after paying interest on that
capital. As a matter of fact, the greater part of
the £23,267 is necessary to cover unexpired risks.
And, anyway, a fire office —a small one especially—
can’t hope to strike an average of losses every year;
it may have a good run, and then a conflagration
may mop up not onlv that year’s premiums, but the
savings of a dozen others. Nevertheless, though the
office l is by no means in a strong position yet, and
though it ought to have reserves of at least £60,000
to fairly balance the risks it is taking, it is pushing
along famously. This is largely due to its ex-
tremely modest expense rate of £27 9s. 4d. p.c. of
the total income—a rate which shows an improve-
ment of £2 4s. p.c. on the previous year’s, and one
which, considering the size of the business, may be
regarded as extra good.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co.
Dividends on Added Nominal
Gross Capital to Re- Re-
Profits. Actually Paid, serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £7,885 8 p.c. =£3,000 £4885 £113,656
June, 1904.. 12,881 12 ~ ~ 4,500 8381 122,067
£47,067 Reserves written off ; £75,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1904.. 13,374 10 p.c. = 3,750 9624 9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 „ „ 3,750 7017 16,641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 10 „ ~ 3,750 5017 21,658
June, 1906.. 13,674 30 ~ ~ 11,250 2424 24,082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 10 ~ ~ 3,750 5437 29,519
June, 1907.. 18,202 '3O ~ ~ 11,250 6952 36,471
Dec., 1907.. 13,117 15 ~ „ 5,625 7492 43,963
June, 1908.. 15.899 20 ~ „ 7,500 8399 52,362
Dec., 1908.. 14,008 16 ~ ~ 7,500 6508 58,870
June, 1909.. 13,405 14J ~ ~ 6,800 6605 65,475
Dec., 1909.. 13,869 14* ~ ~ 6,800 7069 72,544
June, 1910.. 15,488 14£ ~ ~ 6,800 8688 81,232
Dec., 1910.. 16,749 16 ~ ~ 7,650 9099 90,331
June, 1911.. 16,978 16 ~ ~ 7,650 9328 99,659
The reserves are made up as follows: —
Insurance and General .. ..£29,371
Special renewals reserve . . . . 2,000
Depreciation fund .. .. 58,650
Unappropriated profits . . .. 9,638
Total £99,659
Some of those reserves are not true reserves, though,
and that applies particularly to the Depreciation
Fund. Steamships, tugs, city freehold, works, etc.,
are shown at their cost to this co. ; and these things
can’t be used without losing some of their value in
the process. This paper doesn’t know what the
depreciation amounts to. If, however, there was
even a 21 p.c. depreciation all round, then this
composite item lost £5857 of its value during the
half-year; and the true profit was £16,978, less
£5857, or £11,121. But, again, this paper doesn’t
know whether 21 p.c. is a fair thing to deduct. No
doubt the value of steamships, tugs, engineering
works, and some of the other assets shrink more
than 5 p.c. p.a. ; but, then, city freehold is
thrown into the heap, and city freehold doesn’t
waste to that extent. Then there is the Insurance
Fund, which is really an accumulation of premiums
to cover a risk that hasn’t expired. So that isn’t
the best of reserves either. Still, making a very
liberal allowance on that account, the net profit is
very handsome. The position can be put this way:—
Dee., ’O4. June, ’OB. June, ’ll.
Steamships and non-
Liquid Assets .. £127,118 £187,268 £239,399
Liquid Assets . . 49,052 65,338 61,936
Liabilities . . 12,796 42,344 23,601
In the second half of 1908, £20,000 of new capital
was got in. The excess of liquid assets over lia-
bilities three years ago was £22,994 ; it is now
£38,335, or £15,341 more. Meantime, £52,131
has been added to the non-liquid assets ; .that repre-
sents slightly, but only very slightly, less than the
cost. Thus we get this: —
Spent on non-liquid assets.. .. £52,131
New capital . . . . £20,000
Liquid assets accumulated . . 15,341
4,659
Spent out of revenue on non-liquid assets £47,472
That is 3 years’ record —in addition to the divi-
dends paid, and anything that has been spent on
maintenance, renewals and repairs. And £47,472,
or £15,824 a year, seems a most ample provision
for wear and tear and contingencies and everything
else —ample and more than ample.
The co.’s original capital was £75,000; at that
figure the assets taken over from three shipping con-
cerns were capitalised in 1895. Subsequently the
inter-State shipping business looked up wonderfully
partly the result of Federation, and partly the result
of one of the good old honorable understandings—
and in 1904, on a revaluation being made it was
found possible to put 100 p.c. of water into the
stock. This represented undivided profit, and no doubt
some writing up of assets that had previously been
written down too hard. Subsequently £2O 000 of
new capital was got in at par, making the present
capital £l. 0,000. In the table the rate of divi-
dend is computed on £95,000 ; if £170,000 is taken
instead, the past year’s 16 p.c. is reduced to 9 p.c.
* * * ♦
The Wellington Woollen Manufacturing
Co. (M.L.)
. Written To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £8,791 8 p.c. =£4281 £2500 £2OlO £19,301
1902.. 10,773 8 ~ ~ 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums on new shares .. 1413 23,850
1903.. 9,065 8 p.c. = 5604 2500 961 24|sil
1904.. 9,130 8 „ ~ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
1905.. 3,950 6,, ~ 4800 2000 23,818
1906.. 5,200 5 ~ ~ 4000 1000 200 24 018
1907. 6,708 6„ „ 4858 1500 350 24,368
1908.. 11,190 6 „ „ 5353 2000 3837 28,205
1909.. 6,277 6 ~ ~ 6114 3000 _ 25,368
1910.. 13,653 7 „ 7957 5500 196 25 564
1911.. 11,685 7 „ „ 8074 3500 111 25,675
If a punter at the pony meetings produced a list ot
his annual net winnings, it could scarcely be more
bumpy than that column which shows this co.’s pro-
fits. The big variations appear to be mainly due to
unavoidable speculations in raw material. Thus, in
1904, for instance, there was a sharp rise in the
price of wool. Usually a rise of that kind is passed
on to the consumer, which is perfectly legitimate;
but unfortunately the Maoriland manufacturer of
woollens is up against very keen foreign competition
all the time. Moreover, a lot of those competitors
deal so dargely in shoddy that a rise in wool isn’t of
very tremendous importance to them. So, as a rule,
the local manufacturer can’t put up his price—any-
way, not to make good a sudden jump at the wool
sales. No doubt it cuts both ways to some extent.
Presently, for instance, after the prices of woollen
goods have been gradually shoved up, there may be a
slump in the sheep’s overcoat; and then it usually
takes some time for the price of woollen goods to
slide back again, and while the gradual slide is in
progress the co. is in clover. These circumstances
no doubt mainly account for the remarkable un-
evenness of the profits.
In taking a general view of the profit column, it
must also be remembered that this co. has been
gradually increasing its capital. This shows the
total at various dates (including calls paid in ad-
vance) :
1906 .. £80,240 I 1909'.. £116,515
,1907 . . 94,145 1910 . . 123,204
1908 . . 103,726 I 1911 . . 122,901
This £42,000 or so of new capital has enabled the
co. to reduce its outside liabilities a trifle. In 1906
they totalled £62,724 ; they now stand at £42,543.
The outlook for trade is said to be satisfactory ; for,
though the Customs protection isn’t what it ought
to be, more and more people are patronising home-
made goods as a matter of principle and patriotism,
and that spirit will no doubt go on spreading.
Therefore, the co. feels justified in launching out still
further: over £lO,OOO has been spent in extensions
of buildings and plant during the year. One insect
in the ointment is the reaction which is almost cer-
tain to hit Maoriland and disorganise its trade
when the present borrowing boom stops—especially
if it stops suddenly; and that’s how borrowing
booms mostly do stop, just as Billjim’s jamboree
stops with a jerk when Bung shuts down on the
supply of snakes and other liquor.
* * * *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
'££ £ £ £
Jan., 1904.. 2604 5 p.c. = 2500 104 3,596
Aug., 1904.. 2513 £4/5/6 „ ~ 2500 300 3,309
Feb., 1905.. 245 2J „ „ 1250 2,304
Aug., 1905.. 1639 3* „ „ 1666 —•— 2,277
Jan., 1906.. 2736 6 ~ ~ 2500 236 2,513
July, 1906.. 3577 5 „ „ 2500 1077 3,590
Jan., 1907.. 3956 5 ~ ~ 2500 1456 5,046
July, 1907.. 4542 5 „ ~ 2500 2042 7,088
Jan., 1908.. 4826 5 ~ ~ 2500 2326 9,414
July, 1908.. 5547 £5/16/8 „ ~ 2917 2630 12,044
Jan., 1909.. 4890 5/16/8,, ~2917 1973 14,017
July, 1909.. 5728 5/16/8 ~ ~ 2917 1400 1411 15,428
Jan., 1910.. 6097 6f ~ ~ 3333 1362 1402 16,830
July, 1910.. 6558 7£ ~ ~ 3750 1086 1722 18,552
Jan., 1911.. 6422 7$ ~ ~4025 520 20,429
July, 1911.. 7701 8i .. ~5208 506 1987 22,416
This co. issued 25,000 new shares at par last year,
instead of getting a small premium for them, as it
should have done; and some of the money thus
raised has been used in reducing the mortgage,
which, nevertheless, still stands at £45,000. A
mortgage is a very good thing to get rid of; but as
the co. issued the new shares at par, and as it has
now again sprung the dividend, it means that it is
paying 8& p.c. to get rid of debt which was costing
something no doubt under 5 p.c. The raising of the
new capital isn’t, therefore, likely to hasten the
mortgage off the premises. The simplest way to
hurry the incubus off would be to keep the dividend
modest, and apply surplus profits to the purpose;
but the co. has evidently a thirst for dividends, and
for the fourth time in four years the rate has been
bumped up. As a matter of fact, this isn’t a con-
cern from which big dividends ought to be expected.
The capital is £125,000, and £103,625 of that is
represented by real estate. Certainly there is the
previously-mentioned mortgage resting on that estate;
but even if you deduct the mortgage, there is
still just upon half of the capital represented by city
property; and when you’ve got your money out on
the gilt-edged security of city property, you can’t
reasonably expect to get a high return for it. This
paper, therefore, regrets that the dividend has been
again increased. The co. may be able to earn it
with a fair amount of comfort to-day; but these are
abnormally prosperous times, and when the times of
the other sort arrive there is always a disinclination
to pull the rate of dividend down again, with the
result that depreciation is neglected and a crop of
trouble is planted. The amount shown as written-oif
for the past year is the balance of the money spent
some little time ago on “additions and improve-
ments,” and the writing-off has been a most proper
thing unless the outlay meant the actual production
of increased revenue. Apart from the mortgage, the
co. owes £22,330, mainly trade debts; and its own
book debts run to £30,028.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and In-
vestment Co. (Sydney);—
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1904.. £5748 10p.c. =£3721 £2027 £22,629
Dec., 1904.. 5543 10 ~ ~ 3722 £250 1571 24,200
June, 1905.. 5606 10 „ ~ 3723 800 1083 25.283
Dec., 1905.. 4469 10 ~ „ 3725 94 650 25,933
June, 1906.. 4398 10 ~ „ 3726 672 26,605
Dec., 1906.. 3723 10 ~ ~ 3726 26,602
June, 1907.. 3730 10 „ „ 3730 26,602
Dec., 1907.. 4568 10 „ „ 3733 835 27,437
June, 1908.. 3938 10 ~ „ 3734 - 204 27,641
Dec., 1908.. 4077 10 „ ~ 3740 337 27,978
June, 1909.. 4110 10 ~ „ 3740 370 28,348
Dec., 1909.. 4937 12J „ „ 4683 254 28,602
Premiums on new shares .. .. 19 28,621
June, 1910.. 4687 12£p.e. = 4687 28,621
Premiums on new shares .. .. 3095 31,716
Dec., 1910.. 5858 12£ p.c. = 4859 999 32,715
Premiums on new shares .. .. 12 32,727
June, 1911.. 6081 12J p.c. = 4881 1200 33,927
The paid capital now stands at £78,125, made up
of 75,000 shares fully paid to £l, and a recent lot
of 12,500, issued to shareholders at a premium of
2s. 6d., and on which 2s. 6d. has so far been called
up. The co.’s profits have been steadily climbing up
the ladder, and, assuming that full provision is made
for bad debts and depreciation, the present dividend
is very comfortably earned. Further, though the
co.’s profit is so handsome, there is very little of
other people’s money in the business; total liabili-
ties, including a few deposits, are only £9626.
The risks are, therefore, considerably less than they
would be if the co. borrowed heavily to lend out
again. Of course there are risks even if the co. only
uses its own money ; for the eo. may be making- ad-
vances too liberally. And that is the uncertain quan-
tity when you come to consider this as an investment
Here is a co. with a capital of £78,125, and reserved
of £33,927 ; and £100,625 —or practically all the
capital and reserves—is represented by “advances on
mortgages, pledges and other securities and other
assets ; and you simply have to take the manage-
ment s word that the exceedingly mixed lot of assets
are worth the money. To add to the difficulties of
valuation, there are branches in Victoria, Queensland
and Westralia. Still, the co. didn’t go into the busi-
ness yesterday or the day before, and if it doesn’t
know how much the family jewels are worth, then
the chances are that the knowledge is utterly lost.
* *
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania): —
Writ- To
Dividends and ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 03.. £5132 £B/17/9p.c. =£4620 £512 £6 267
June,’o4.. 5032 8/17/9 „ ~ 4620 412 6 679
Dec.,’o4.. 5192 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 - 572 7’251
June,’os.. 5075 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 455 7 706
Dec., ’05.. 5138 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 - 518 8 224
June,’o6 . 5083 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 463 8 687
Dec.,’o6.. 5242 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 622 9*309
June,’o7.. 5238 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 618 9 927
Dec.,’o7.. 5903 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620£3000 8210
June,’oB.. 5432 8/17/9 „ ~ 4620 812 9 022
Dec.,’oB.. 5690 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 1070 10 092
June,’o9.. 5633 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 1250 9 855
Dec.,’o9.. 6211 8/17/9 „ ~ 4675 500 1036 10’,891
June,TO.. 4571 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4675 10 787
Dec., TO.. 6658 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 500 1568 121355
June, 11.. 6678 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 1500 558 12,913
total amount written-off in the past half-year,
£ooo is applied to an extension of works account
and that might possibly be better added to the re-
serves. The total to the credit of this account, and
not included with the reserves, is now £2OOO. Ex-
tension of works is, however, so far as most gas cos.
are concerned, merely another way of providing for
depreciation. A co. has (say) 10 miles of mains,
which are undergoing the inevitable process of de-
cay ; and instead of dropping some revenue into a
stocking to presently renew that length of pipe, it
uses the money to lay another half-mile of line.
Whether this co.’s extension of works fund is that
kind of depreciation reserve, isn’t certain ; but, to be
on the safe side, the amount is herein written off. The
other £lOOO written-off in the past six months goes
towards reducing the book value of the co.’s pre-
mises. Besides the gas business the co. does a little
—a very little—in the way of electric lighting; but
it professes that the latter isn’t profitable. Possibly it
doesn’t want it to be. Nevertheless, somebody else is
evidently going to try it; for, according to the latest
reports, the capital is assured for the big scheme for
harnessing up the Great Lake’s water power and
turning it into current for the use of Hobart and
other places. This will give the eo. such a com-
petitor as it never before had in its life. Its financial
position isn’t particularly strong. Seven years ago
it had a few hundreds with its bankers; to-day it
has an overdraft of £5219. Thus, all of the revenue
earned in excess of the dividends paid has gone into
plant, etc., and about £6OOO besides. Still, there
certainly is something to show for the money, inas-
much as the sales of gas reached £14,266 last half-
year, and of electric current £3546, whereas seven
years ago the figures were £11,209 and £lB2l.
Albury Brewing and Malting Co., Ltd.
(N.S.W.), whose profits have been going from bad to
worse, hopes that it has got out of its difficulties
by amalgamating with the Beechworth (Vic.) Brew-
ery. The new concern is to be known as the Border
United Co-operative Breweries, Ltd.
* * * *
For the first half of this year Australia
exported to Europe 156,115 tons of lead ore and
concentrates, and 253,889 tons of zinc ore and con-
centrates, a total of 410,004 tons —mostly concen-
trates—representing in all more than a million tons
of crude ore out of the mines. The local producer
received at the rate of £6 3s. 2d. per ton of lead
concentrates and £2 13s. sd. per ton for the zincif-
erous stuff. The 414,004 tons returned Australia
£1,640,200 ( £962,023 for the lead and £678,177
for the zinc) and it is quite safe to say that the
net profit derived from the half-year’s shipment of
zinc alone amounted to £250,000“ Still, the money
Australia got for the goods was little compared with
the extractable value of the metals. As to the zinc
material, at least three times as much would be got
out of the concentrates as Australia received. The
balance goes to foreign smelters’ profit, and in paying
heavy freight on metal and on the dirt that is asso-
ciated with it, and for foreign fuel and foreign
smelter labor, etc. It represents a prodigious waste
of a national _ opportunity; and the sooner some
method is devised of keeping the highly profitable
job of metal-extraction in Australia the better. Just
at present we are merely supplying putative enemies
with the sinews of war, because hardly any of this
stuff goes to J. Bull.
* * * *
Placer tin mine, Germanton (N.S.W.),
had buyers in Melbourne at 12s. the other week,
but was soon knocked back to Bs. or thereabouts.
Yet the original syndicate is professedly confident
that the first big clean-up—-next month —will estab-
lish the character of the property. But the big holders
of Placer scrip are not experienced in the ways of
tin fields, so it may be that their calculations are
based on dreamy assumptions. They have added
another block or two to the original property, and
are issuing new contributing shares, which move is
not likely to inspire public confidence in their con-
fidence.
About the most cheerful remark in the
chairman’s address at the Broken Hill Prop, meeting
related to the expected surpluses from zinc de-
liveries: “If the present high values of metals are
maintained until the close of this year, the adjust-
ment of the old contracts for the sale of zinc con-
centrates—the last deliveries of which were com-
pleted in December, 1910 —should yield us a hand-
some surnlus, as the terms of such contracts provide
for settlement on the basis of the average prices for
the year following that in which delivery of the
concentrates was given.”
The contract made by the Broken Hill
South for the sale of its zinc tailings to the De
Bavay Co. is panning out all right in view of the
fine rise in spelter. When the agreement was made,
4s. a ton was reckoned a very fair thing as a flat
rate; but the co. stipulated for an equal division
of profits after the De Bavay people had pocketed
an amount equal to the flat rate. As the result of
that stipulation, it is estimated that the South’s
tailings are now worth to it from Bs. 6d. to 9s. per
ton.
Broken Hill Block 14 has found a N.S.W.
mine at last. When it struck blanks in its own
deeper levels, it set out to look for properties else-
where, mostly with the eyes of J. H. Fawcett; but
one after the other the options have been turned
down. Finally, the Torrington wolfram and bis-
muth mine, near Deepwater, satisfied the co.’s en-
gineers ; and the co. is paying for it £ 5000 cash
and 27,000 shares in a 150,000 share co. The
agreement stipulates for £20,000 at least of work-
ing capital, and this and the purchase-money are to
be provided by declaring a bonus of 2s. 7d. per
share. If Block 14 shareholders don’t want one
share in the subsidiary co. for every two in the old
one, they can take the cash. The Torrington has
68,000 tons proved, and the engineers agree that
the bulk of the stuff can be mined and milled for
6s. per ton. It is confidently expected that there
are good profits ahead, though few figures are yet
available under that heading. The co. will hold
23,000 shares in reserve.
Though things haven’t been quite so good
lately, the Jembaicumbene continues one of the Ma
State’s consistent dredgers. On a paid capital of
£13,200, the past year’s profits (to June 30) was
£3835, after paying £476 for machinery repairs


To Trustees of
Onerous Estates
Do You Know That
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
The Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia,
will act as
New Trustees of
'Wills and Settlements?
Moderate Charges.
Efficient Management.
«£, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE.,
Booklet on Application. Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Crass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Every engineer in charge of factories krid rfrflls
should give cloSe attention t 6 the p'Ower visited in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings Save 20 per cent, power arid 75 prir cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings oi
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in Ne"'
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint.—Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes arid Victoria Bridges, P. and 0. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 Sq. yds. per ewt. WM.
ADAMS & UO., UtD., 175 clarence Street, Sydney,*
’the undisputed benefit df asbestos Covering fOf
steam-pipes and boilers bris befe'ri exemplified by a re-
cent seifentific treatise df the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made haVe established tile fact
that 1(1(1 square feet df pipe edVerdd With this
material, at a pressure df 2odlb. pef square inch, arid
coal at 16s. pdr tdii, Wiil save £7 per year, and
prevent Ibss df pressure equal to 1.3.84 B. Th. U. pef
square fdbt per minute. Bell’s Asbestds Non-coii-
dudting Compdsitidri; Supplied in tiWt; bags, df
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.-
Bell’s Asbestds, Dtd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The most tnoderh, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “Wilfley.” It is and
Consists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged
in » tank of slimes or material to be filtered, The
drum is covered with a filter cloth supported of)
grooves on the drum, which are connected by means
of holes to the interior *td allow the liquid to be
withdrawn. Through the trunnions at the ends of
the drum the vacuum pipe passes to the interior.
This pipe connects with the interior of the drum,
through which the liquid and air are withdrawn by
means of a vacuum pump. The filtered slime is re-
moved by a simple apparatus placed at or below the
level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly the
cake is removed, the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp
ready to receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the
sucking in of air, and consequent loss of vacuum
between the time the cake is removed and a fresh
one is forming. The residual liquid in the slime
cake is removed by distributing water over the sur-
face of the semi-dried cake. Owing to the fact that
the filter is circular in form, it will be seen that it
is continuous in operation, and has no complication
of valves to get out of order; furthermore, work is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manu-
facturing rights of this filter.* [2
Extract from Assure, Manchester, September,
1910: “The Colonial Mutual —the first Colonial
office to open an establishment in the Mother Coun-
try—-has always had a reputation for being an en-
terprising and progressive institution, and lately
has attracted special attention by enlarging the
scope of its operations, so as to include Industrial
and Accident business.”*
The two principal factors in the success of WOOD
PIPE are its economy and durability. It is eco-
nomical as regards first cost; its lightness makes a
saving in freight, and it requires less labor to lay.
It has no exposed metal, and is, therefore, practi-
cally everlasting. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send full details on ap-
plication.*
* * * *
SIMPITROL AIR GAS—the light that is nearest
daylight and almost as cheap. The Simpitrol Air
Gas System has all the advantages and none of the
disadvantages of other systems. It is simple, abso-
lutely safe, and is the most economical iight you can
nave, costing one-sixth that of electricity, one-quarter
that of oil, and one-fifth that of acetylene lights. It
is not explosive, and does not entail tedious winding
and regulating of burners. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia), Ltd.,
84-88 William-street. Melbourne. Dept. W.*
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [I
*' * * ♦
For driving bands, conveyor and elevator belting
of all kinds, Hopkins Bros, and Odium Prop., Ltd.,
Leicester Street, Carlton, Melbourne. Leading
machine belting manufacturers. With largest stocks
and factory in the Commonwealth. Invite enquiries.
Leather belting (Australian and English) all sizes
stocked. Genuine British Balata and Taylors’
Patent Faced Camel Hair Belting, all widths up to
18in. Conveyor belting a specialty for ore, sand,
metal, coal. Write for price-lists and discounts.
Agents wanted.*
* * # *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets,
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel Gelignite Safety Fuse
Samsonite Blasting Gelatine Detonators
Gelatine Dynamite Dynamite Cartridges
and renewals; £3300 was divided among share-
holders, and at the end of the term there was still a
trifle over £1250 in hand after providing for all
liabilities.
* * * *
When P. W. Tewksbury looked afield for
something to put his dredging experience into, he
and his friend J. C. Watson had hopes of a S'Afri-
can proposition, and the Mynpachts Gold-dredging
Co. was formed. The proposition, however, wouldn’t
stand the acid; so S’Africa was abandoned, and an
arrangement made with an Araluen (N.S.W.) co.
to secure some ground. The new co. that was
formed—the Victorian Araluen Dredging Co.—has
got to work with the dredge intended for the Myn-
pachts Co., and the first nine weeks’ work showed
gold worth £2546. The V.A.D. Co.’s accounts were
made up to June 30, after five weeks’ operations,
and that run showed a working account profit of
£854. The present position is that of the 30,000
V.A.D. Co.’s shares the Mynpachts Co. owns 20,000,
and when the divs. on these have wiped out a
debt of £6547, the V.A.D. shares will be divided
among the Mynpachts’ shareholders, and the old
co. be wound up.
Bull Ant (W.A.) shareholders, meeting
in London, eagerly assented to liquidation and dis-
tribution of assets. Doolette, the elder, said that
the Board had considered the Wisdom of getting
hold of another property, but had ultimately decided
to barrack for winding up. Lionel Robinson fol-
lowed, and said that the acceptance of the offer of
Bullfinch shares in exchange for Bull Ants, made by
Doolette, jun., and himself, was purely optional, and
he wanted it clearly understood that there was no
compulsion about the matter. Neither he nor the
other fellow recommended Bull Ant holders to take
Bullfinches. At the Bullfinch East meeting, held two
days later, it was announced that at least 6s. per
share would be available for distribution by the
liquidator. Although winding up, the co. does not
intend to abandon its Bullfinch holding for the pre-
sent. Arrangements are being made to have it
worked on tribute, and if the tributors find anything
worth having, the first chance of subscribing more
capital for the purpose of again working the show
is to be offered to existing shareholders.
Cheerful item of interest to Bullfinch
shareholders, received by the last London mail:
“The fully-paid shares so far issued number 458,000,
including 8000 of the option shares ‘called’ and paid
up in full. Another 12,000 shares have been ‘called’
and partly paid, and a further 8000 to 10,000 are
likely to be ‘called’ very shortly. The option-holders
agreed to exercise portion of their options in order
to put the co. in possession of funds for development
and plant. If they had not agreed to do this, it is
probable that debentures would have been issued, or
possibly even a reconstruction called for; and that
would have given the public a worse ‘sickener’ than
it has suffered from alreadv.”
* * * *
Gwalia Proprietary (W.A.) has been at
it again. The directors’ report for the past twe
years shows that the amount spent on development
stands at about one-fifth of the sum subscribed at
the last reconstruction. No estimate is given of the
ore developed as a result of such outlay, nor is any-
thing further said about the “large body of ore in
the northern workings,” which some time ago was
reported to “average 525. per ton.” At the last
meeting shareholders were filled up with the old
yarn about the great value of the property; and,
given the money asked for, the directors seemed pre-
pared to take their oath that things would turn out
much better in the future than they had in the past.
About £25,000 was then put up, and the principal
items of expenditure in the accounts now to hand
are: Directors, £1116; offices (two) and expenses
therewith, £1480; consulting engineer and manager,
£1166; development, £4465; shaft sinking, £606.
The question arises, Is it worth while going on ?
Large sums of money have already been lost here in
attempts to carry on the business of gold production
at a profit, and if, after all this expenditure, the co.
cannot do any better than it is doing, it seems like
a waste of money to go further.
Ida PI. (W.A.) has completed its im-
provements above and below, and expects to resume
crushing and mining on a more economical scale
almost immediately. Nothing is yet known to the
public as to what quantity of ore is to be put through
the mill in future, but in all probability a smaller
tonnage will be treated and a compensating increase
made in the grade. Some borehole prospecting was
recently started in this mine, but as no information
has since been published, it may be taken for granted
that the drill hasn’t so far struck anything worth
blowing about.
Oroya Exploration, Ltd. (W.A.), has
issued a circular containing a list of its belongings.
From this it is gleaned that the co. has 150,000
yuanmi, 90,000 Mountain Queen, 60,000 Oroya-
Leonesa, and 50,000 Oroya-Black Range shares; also
it owns the Queen of the Hills and Transvaal
(Westralia), the Babylonia (Nicaragua), and several
other mining odds and ends in other parts of the
world. The directors don’t guess how much the co.
is going to make out of its big share interests, but
in the case of the Queen of the Hills the profit in
sight is computed at £102,000, that in the Baby-
lonia at £60,000, and that in the Transvaal at
£40,000. These three shows will either be equipped
and worked by the co. later on, or floated off as sub-
sidiaries. According to the present price of shares,
the valuation put upon the co.’s miscellaneous lot
of real and personal estate is £215,625. It would
probably be much higher but for the fact that the
co. is heavily weighted down with financial respon-
sibilities, and may want further help at any time.
At last something is being done to see if
Norseman (W.A.) is a goldfield at depth. Hitherto
a deeply-rooted impression has prevailed that it isn’t,
on account of an unfavorable change of country cut-
ting out everything of value at a few hundred ver-
tical feet from the surface. The Mararoa and
Princess Royal cos., however, think otherwise, and
have started drilling to determine whether they are
right or not.
“M’poonie” : The big mining cos. of West-
tralia are laying up trouble for themselves by stack-
ing the newly-arrived Dago into mines in contra-
vention of the law, and to the injury of the home-
gTOwn miner. Presently, when the Australian
miner can’t get a job in Westralian mines, the
A.W.A. will wake up and make the biggest indus-
trial row heard in this State. One of the worst
transgressors is the big B. M. Co., which is absorb-
ing every available Italian or Austrian immigrant.
The firm’s mines are full of Dagoes, and its newest
acquisition, the big Youanme, is being almost en-
tirely worked by Italians. It is a matter of common
knowledge, too, that some Westralian mine officials
are in the habit of abusing their authority and the
rules of common decency by accepting backsheesh
from Dago workers; and that howls in the home-
grown miner’s ear that he isn’t likely to get a fair
deal from those bosses.
* * * *
The same old thing is happening in North
Queensland. The Chillagoe Co. having been em-
powered to buiid the Etheridge railway, and pouch
the profits, direct and indirect, is now pushing ardund
a petition imploring the Government to spend
£15,000 on unproductive roads leading to the
various stations and sidings. The idea is that low-
grade or refractory mines might be opened up with
the help of traction engines. And no doubt some-
thing of the kind will have to be done. The incident
proves over again that the authority which owns
the unproductive roads should also own the produc-
tive rails.
* * * *
The very promising Limestone mine (Q.)
hasn’t been yarded by the Mount Elliott Co. yet; A
hitch having occurred in the arrangements.
* * * *
After prospecting poorly for 136 ft. of
driving, Hampden’s Duchess level, at 550 ft., has
entered a shoot of good ore. The last 21ft., from
136 ft. to 157 ft. north, gave an average assay of 24
p.C., and the face shows even higher grade ore for
a vVidth of 48in. This is a splendid development;
but Hahipden needs it, for the co. is spending a pot
of money On prospecting and development work, and
is also making costly additions to smelting plant.
Last month’s return of 612 tons of matte, contain-
ing 2io tons Copper, 2040 z. gold, and 28450 z., silver,
would Certainly not pieet all the expenses. It may
be easy to issue another hatch of debentures, but all
this borrowing will prove a heaVy burden on future
production. Assuming that the Various mines Con-
tain 20,000 tons of Copper, a profit of over £2O per
ton is required to equal present market Value, plus
the debenture debt.
* * * *
Charters Towers still feels pretty gloomy.
Day Dawn crushings from Mills’ United, Hew Bril-
liant Freehold and East Mexican are all good; but
this alone will not hold the market —reserves of pay-
able stone are essential too. Mills’ United is cross-
cutting from its two deep winzes below No. 14 level.
This prospecting is 300 ft. deeper than the present
stopes. The crosscuts are in diorite, and if any
mineral stone is struck, the market will come to life
again. Mills’ crushing for the fortnight Was 1012
tons for £3163, and its dividend of Is. per share
costs £16,000. The Freehold, next door, crushed
832 tons for £3lOB. There is no important new de-
velopment work there.
* * * *
Mungana (Q.) has got its Girofla mitle
ready for stoping a few thousand tons of silver-lead
sulphides. It expects to be able to supply Chillagoe
furnaces with 70,000 tons, and, in anticipation,
Chillagoe is adopting the Dwight Lloyd process for
desulphurising and sintering the crudes, preparatory
to smelting.
* * * *
No. 1 North Victory enlivens Gympie(Q.)
with a crushing of 211 tons for 9680 z. gold. This
good return is followed by a dividend of Is. 3d. per
share. No. 2S. Great Eastern is not in so much
favor, as it is doubtful how the Inglewood formation
will turn out. Trial crushings have been poor ; still,
there is a good deal to be done in opening up the
1750 ft. level, and driving another crosscut at 2000 ft.,
before a definite opinion can be formed about the
future of the show.
* * * *
Blair Athol, Central Queensland’s biggest
coal producer, whoops in a circular that it is going
to do bigger things on its own account, now that
the southerners have turned it down. Electrical coal-
cutters have been put in, and an endless wire-rope has
been installed for haulage. The co.’s present book-
ings are equal to 8300 tons a month, so it looks for-
ward cheerfully to a monthly output of 9000 tons
when odds and ends are counted in.
* * * *
Local opinion in Stawell (Vic.) is rapidly
inclining to the view that the old place is 'going to
have another life by working the enormous bodies of
low-grade oxidised ores on modern lines. Although on
paper these deposits may appear hardly worth inves-
tigating, yet shillings here go as far as dwts. on
some other fields ; and, altogether, the conditions in
regard to mining, etc., are so favorable that the
record for economical working of low-grade ore may
eventually be held by Stawell. In fact, as far back
as the early ’Bo’s, ore, ranging from sdwt. down to
2dwt. (and more of it approaching the 2-weight mark
than the five), was mined at Stawell, carted a mile
or so to a public battery, and crushed with profit to
the mines. This ore was raised, moreover, by parties
of working miners, in most cases without a penny
of capital to assist them, and neither the dray that
carted the stone to the battery, nor the battery that
did the crushing, was the property of the men who
raised the stone. In many cases also the miners had
to pay tribute out of their crushings. _ Only one
plant is now dealing with this or*, but it is demon-
strating that a payable extraction can be obtained
by a combination of the battery and cyanide pro-
cess; and, though the problem has been tackled in
only a primitive, experimental way, there is good
reason for the belief that an up-to-date _ plant,
thoroughly equipped with the best labor-saving de-
vices from mine to mill, will yet demonstrate that
Stawell possesses a valuable asset in its huge de-
posits of oxidised, un-complex ore.
* * * *
There are a few little Victorian claims
that have a way of piling up profits. The Ajax,
Davlesford, set out about three years ago on what
seemed to be a weary way, but, hitting good stone,
up s:oes a record of £197,866 of gold won. This is,
roughly, 50,000 oz.; and as dividends have piled up
to £90,750, £1 16s. out of every oz. won has
found its way into the nocket of the shareholder.
The wages account is now up to £72,259, so that
it isn’t the Fat miner on this occasion who has
swallowed up profits. Directors’ fees look even worse
than wages, as they tot up to only £780; but then
Ballarat Boards float lightly when a good market is
about. All this has been got on a paid-up capital
of £BBOO. Therefore, the money sunk at the out-
set has come back 10 times over. What’s more, the
Board won’t confess to exhaustion. The average of
the yields has come down, certainly; but Phil Lewis,
the manager, holds out that he is going to strike
something in the No. 7 level crosscut east and on the
west lode at the two bottom levels and the No. 4
Speaking generally, Lewis is hustling along well,
and doing his pioneering without fuss.
* * * *
Bright Star (Vic.) has still the big-
boulder disease ; but that wouldn’t matter so much
if the dirt in between was richer. The half-year s
gold was worth £1929, while exes, ran to £1784,
plus £235 spent in altering the dredge. One div.
was paid during the half-year, and another just
after it closed ; but these things obviously were not
done out of the half-year’s crop. Moreover, on July
31 the co. had only a hundred or so of cash in hand
after providing for outstanding accounts. The co.
has chewed up 17 acres altogether, and has 106
acres still on its plate.
Wandiligong (Vic.), after a dry spell, has
got back on to the div. list, and things begin to look
much more cheerful again; it was just bad luck
that the two dredges got simultaneously into poor
ground. This co., with a paid capital of only
£5400, had divided £14,010 up to the end of
j u ly—for nearly three years the monthly cheque
went out sts regularly as a leaf was tdrn (Iff tile
calendar;
* * * *
Hercules (Tas.) is shipping larger quan-
tities of lead sulphides to Zeehan, but no doubt the
Is. dividend is in consequence of a favorable adjust-
ment of the zinc ore account with European buyers.
A rise of £5 in spelter is Is. per unit, so 30 p.c.
zinc ore nominally increases 30s. in value. Simi-
larly, Broken Hill’s 45 p.c. stuff increases 455. in
nominal value when spelter rises from £22 to £27.
But the smelter only pays for extractable metal, and,
moreover, makes liberal deductions against metal
losses and other things, so the actual zinc-produCef
doesn’t land anything like an extra shilling a unit
from the recent rise.
* * * *
As the years pass roupd, they bring Recol-
lections of fine feasts that have been tOrrt out of
the Pioneer (Tas.). Year in arid year Out Cecil
Byan sends up his tally, till it ribw mounts up as
follows: —
Cub. Yards Costs per Stream tih. Averagfe
Year. treated. ton. Tong. lb.
1900-1908.. 4,312,300 7 277 d. 385§ 2.004
1909- 495,900 7’327d. 362£ 1637
1910- 706,100 4.721 a.: 505| 1'604
The drop in working Crists is the feature Of the
record, and with the price of, tin averaging £l7B
13s. 6d., against £142 6s. 3d. iri 1910, and £133
16s. 3d. in 1909, it may Well be said that Cecil
Ryan’s fat Victorian lambs have had the cold Tassy
blasts tempered to them. Costs have come down
with a big thud, due to a, favorable Winter and easifet
grourid; The did paddock torik up v 274 acres, aria
noW a rifeW orie is being Wdrkerl. As tlib tin goes
down ffom the grass fbotSj this dries nrit mean ii
check to yields; the fcri;’S dividends frit the yerir
were over £26,000, With a nice little bit Of £3ood
cut Off the bank advance rrtade to it, leaving drily
£3OOO due under that head. Truly, a tin mine
like the Pioneer, with tin up as at present, is a gift
from the gods.
* * * *
Not oil from shale —soft* Soothing oil— —
would Taslnanians apply to De BaVay, Monty Coheri’s
cheniist. They would scarify him and rub in vitriol,
biting, burning, destroying. For De Bavay has
kicked their Latrobe oil-drum so hard as to about
burst it, Cohen, De Bavay and their pals put down
£5OOO before they threw up their option ; so they
evidently meant business. They first had De Bavay
out to spy the land and take samples. The next big
gun was D, Currie, Of Briseis, who arranged the
sampling, and they then went in for boring. This
programme convinced them, first, that there Was
more coal than shale on some of the blocks; next,
that there was less money in the treatment of the
oil than in flirting with zinc products at Broken
Hill. So as they are not out to-day to be coal barons,
but to be oil kings, they throw Latrobe On the
scrap-heap.
'The Australian-owned Tongkah (Siam)
produced 1294 tons of black tin last month, making
a total of 4054 tons for the last three months. There
were poorer yields in April and May; nevertheless,
it seems reasonable to expect a total of 750 tons for
the current half-year to September 30. But nothing
is known about the price that has been realised; and
the dredging of tin ore from ? salt water harbor is
such an unusual proposition that it certainly isn’t
safe to simply assume the stuff to be worth 70 p.c.
of metal.
* * * *
The success of the Tongkah Co.’s dredg-
ing in Siam sent numerous prospectors and option-
hunters on the chase over the Malay Peninsula and
the East Indies; but they have had mighty poor
success. In those few cases Where the prospects
were any good, the Wily Chinaman usually had his
finger in the pie, and when terms were mentioned,
John opened his mouth so wide that he could have
swallowed an alligator, let alone a poor, unsophisti-
eated Australian option-hunter. Among the con-
cessions that did look to have a hope was a big
mineral and timber area in Borneo; but the people
who got it, the Kendawangan syndicate, _ turned it
down after sending two people to probe it; and as
subsequent inquiries about other alleged El Doradoes
gave no better prospects, the shareholders got a
little liquidation dividend the other day.
* * * *
A hullabaloo is being raised in the innei’
circle of the Sydney Stock Exchange, because certain
Melbourne firms have cut into sundry preserves.
Sydney abhors the advertising broker: Melbourne
doesn’t care a kick about advertising, but it tears
its hair over “recommending.” But when it comes
to partners opening up in Sydney, and doing biz. on
the barest of corns, allowable —well, that, isn’t either
“advertising” or “recommending.” It is just nip-
ping biz. at cheap rates from the old ’uns. Two can
play at most games, and it would be easy for (say)
Joseph Palmer to send young Joe to Melbourne.
Still, that wouldn’t remove the canker, because the
cutting would merely extend. Then the gentle
public, having once tasted cheap
Wouldn’t want the old scale. And it is the old
scale that keeps up the motor-car.
* * * *
Said the Man from Tanami: “Yes, there’s
gold there all right, and payable, too—though one
must take all the stories of jewellers’ shops with
plenty of sauce. Water ? Tons of it! Beautiful,
clear, cold water, too; just as if it had come
through limestone beds. In fact, I think it has.
There are two bores, and both strike water at about
176 ft. They are sunk between the reefs —which run
east and west, with a dip westward. There area ,
many people there; it’s about the Dead Centre. But
it’ll come, it’ll come. I’m going back there next
week, via Port Darwin.”
* * * *
Burma Mines, Ltd., in which a heap of
Lake View money is sunk, again thrusts itself on
public notice. In six years all the subscribed capi-
tal has vanished, and, in addition, there are liabili-
ties on debentures amounting, with interest, to over
£214,000, besides other weighty indebtedness. Last
year’s revenue from sales of lead totalled £l6l 1,v, 9.
Costs absorbed £149,000, exclusive of Lm-
ciation. Addressing shareholders at uie annual
meeting, F. A. Govett said that a new o i body,
containing silver, copper, zinc, lead, etc.,
had been intersected in the old workings.
As to the financial position, he was pleased
to state that this year the co. had a credit
balance, whereas during the previous years
it had to borrow from its bankers. But he might
just as well have added, while he was about it,
that the co. owed just as much as ever, and that its
credit was bv no means unlimited. When the co.
took over the show in 1905 it had 150,000 tons of
prehistoric slags, a maze of burrowed workings, and
the off-chance of finding the leavings of a payable
lead mine underneath the ancient workings. Ol
course, as The Bulletin remarked on a previous
occasion, the hifalutin prospectus and the inspired
newspaper puffs said something different; but
well, the public had to be got in.
* * * *
Investor: (1) Prospects good. (2) A
gamble. #
In his report for 1910, Government Resident
Milman, of Thursday Island, says that 570 tons of
live mother-of-pearl were obtained from the beds
there last year, being the largest record for the
last seven years, and that the average value, £145
per ton, was, with one exception, the highest that
has ruled for the past ,20 years. The quantity of
bOche-de-mer exported, however, is less than that
of anv of the last five years, but the average value
was £ll per ton higher. Some of it brought £l9O
per ton. » * *


/
Co'iiljrUm!*** l '
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBJB.
World
ħ
Renowned
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W.Lovegrove, London,E.C.
ROBUR
X
There’s not anything in the
world so refreshing and at the
same time so harmless as a cup
of pure tea, and nobody knows
it better than a nurse who has to
sit up night after night.
Of course, there are some
teas nicer than others, and some
teas better for you than others,
but "Robur” is the tea you
should get, it is nice and it is
refreshing, and above all you can
depend upon it at all times being
absolutely pure. Besides, it is
cleanly and carefully packed,
and it is very saving. As a
matter of fact, it is the best all-
round and most reliable tea
procurable and that’s saying a
lot, but it’s true.
The Nurse
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 4, 1011.
My Dear Arini, —
When Melba opened the grand opera sea-
son here as Violetta in “La Traviata,” she
flattered on to the stage like an elegant
balloon, puffed out with the broad acreage
of flounces - that bulged through the Traviata
period. Verdi seized Dumas’s “La Dame
aux Camelias” by her white throat, and
wrung her neck in a swan song. Dumas fils
may have built Camille on the frail struc-
ture of a notorious Frenchwoman; most
likely, as George Eliot said, with violence,
a thousand persons unconsciously sat for
one immortal portrait.
As Violetta, Melba stuck to every detail
of the Greater Clothes-bag epoch in dress,
and wore her hair smacked down on her
head. To modern eyes, “unbecoming” is a
(ame swear-word for this kill-joy coiffure.
The vast circumference of the green skirt,
with a shimmer of gauze and a mile or two
of lace flouncing—Violetta’s first aeroplane
appearance in the great banquet revel —
showed the tragic white camellia caught
with diamond dewdrops, on a front selection
of flounce. The wide, lace mantel-drape on
the corsage was illuminated by a 2000-
candle-power diamond necklet. In this
magnificent first act, Melba’s skylark tx-ills
worked an agitated, herring-barrel audience
into a state of mild frenzy. A few dozen
yards of lace over daffodil silk, and a volum-
inous oyster satin frou-frou, with sparks of
light shooting over its bodyguard of scintil-
lating drape, accompanied Violetta’s silvery
song through the second and third acts.
And, finally, she died with distinction in a
white foam of chiffon, with a cloud of the
same frothy lingerie, edged with darker
velvet, flung over her shoulders.
Tenor John McCormack threw his en-
chanting voice over Violetta’s corsage during
the greater part of Traviata. He’s a charm-
ing stage lover after the Marcus Stone style
—rather more beefy about the waist, per-
haps—and has an instinct for color both in
song and in dress. His swallow-tails —-the
tint of a purple plum—with white lingerie
at the wrists, help the gorgeous color-scheme
in the scene in which Violetta’s friends eat
no supper because Mr. Angelini expects
them to sins- in chorus.
As Flora, in this tearful opera, Australian
Rosina Buckmann has her first big chance;
and she seizes it with a bold, dramatic
grip.
Pitt-street, in the neighborhood of Hex-
Majesty’s seethed with excitement all day
Saturday. The gallery, which paid from
ss. to 7s. 6d. apiece for its roost, tumbled
up to its sky-line early in the afternoon.
Before “Traviata” turned down the lights,
some portion of this enthusiasm got a large
bouquet off its chest, per wire rope, from
gallery rail to manager’s box. The fragrant
vegetables were aimed at Mrs. Grace Miller
Ward. Hugh Ward examined its address
and handed it to the lady, whose bow to the
ceiling was an immediate Act of Grace.
In an opposite box the musical McQuades
sucked up sweet sounds from Melba’s honey
notes, while the hoop of diamonds round
Mrs. McQuade’s black hair flashed a fixed
white light. The Chisliolm-Marks party
was just below, the sleek beauty of Mrs.
Herbert Marks garbed in raven plumage.
An adjacent lady in white was considerably
undressed about the chest, with a film of
glitter supporting the situation. Mrs. An-
thony Hordern’s graceful head reared a nest
of brown curls over a fluff of white ostrich
feather boa, and with her Mrs. Pat
Osborne clothed in expensive elegance,
showed an opera cloak that was some kind
iff modern miracle in white lace and cobweb
gauze. Mrs. Ernest Raleigh wore Queen of
Sheba earrings, long, luminous slabs of
jewel, and other good-looking attire. Mr.
and Mrs. George Tallis were comfortably
wedged into the manager’s eyrie; and dress
circle and stalls looked like slices of female
Resurrection turning its bare bosoms to the
Recording Angel.
John Lemmone made his first public at-
tempt to pipe his lay on the same occasion
that saw Melba’s debut in Melbourne, when
the fledgling songbird sang “Ah fors e lui”
from “Traviata.” It was at a benefit con-
cert given by the Liedertafel to its then con-
ductor Elssaser, who had been ill. Elssaser
has been tuning up his harp for years in a
place where benefit concerts are not adver-
tised. Melba sang “Ah fors e lui,” on Satur-
day night triumphantly; and Lemmone, too
excited to sit still for more than five min-
utes, doubtless scratched the “little doors of
memory” for a dusty glimpse of that other
first night, when waggon-loads of flowex-s
did not pass up over the conductor's back
hair to tlie lady singer’s feet.
Mr. Charlie Mitchell, the Skylark’s best-
known brother, and son George Armstrong
came from Melbourne for the first night,
and scampered back on Sunday.
Tenor Giulio Ciccolini, of the Melba Co.,
is young and beautiful, and was almost in-
nocent of the English language till Sunday
afternoon, when some wild city swans took
him a-motoring. As he neither drinks nor
smokes, they could do no more as hosts
than fill him up with strange sounds, pro-
fane and otherwise. Then they brought the
guileless Ciccolini back to the Australia,
oozing with excited English, which he
worked off on serious-minded citizens. “Does
whisky and soda make you muzzy?” and
“I’m a bosker” are mentioned as now being
in his repertoire.
An ancient inhabitant tells me that the
gallery concert at Her Majesty’s on Satur-
day afternoon was on all-fours with the
efforts made to sneed the hours while Sydney
waited for the first high kick of the Leslie-
Farren co. The recent frivol before “Travi-
ata” sent the curtain up, was an organised
business; a president was elected, and the
incidental piano, which had been hauled up
to the gallery, was exploited with a good
programme. Bert Fahy had memorised the
scores of “Merry Widow” and “Madame
Butterfly,” and did his little bit on the ivory
keys; Hilda Aiken, Elsie Peerless and Syd
McDonald lifted up their voices in song.
Elsie was the last gallery warbler, and her
lilt, with a final E flat, caught the ear of
Melba, who wafted the girl a flattering com-
ment on the range and purity of her music-
box.
H. N. Southwell was handed a Melba pre-
sentation matchbox on Saturday, so he lias
lost any excuse he ever had for carrying
wax vestas loose in his pockets. With the
Melba gold box dangling from one portion
of his person, and a heavy gold case from
Paderewski (also for the necessary match)
climbing down his waistcoat buttons, the
resourceful Southwell is laying up a useful
store of bullion.
KOROLOWICZ- WAYDA, Dramatic Soprano,
Melba Grand Opera Co.
Photo, by Rembrandt , Berlin, Charlttbg.
Sydney’s authority on decoration sends
me this:—
Melba’s colleague, Cisneros, whom you pictured
last week, is the finest woman at present perambu-
lating our continent. She is not wholly culpable.
Art has conspired with Nature to make her so. I
saw her on the day of her arrival in Sydney, and she
reminded me of the Goddess of Liberty, Pallas
Athene, Diana of the Ephesians, and the Spirit of
the Australian Commonwealth. Surely some artist
in frock-structure builds her garbs—this phrase is
just right; “frock,” “costume,” and “ladies’ tailor-
ing” fail to describe the robing of her majestic sym-
metry. She wore a dark picture hat and a fawn-
colored over-garment which reached to her heels, bor-
dered by a broad band of crimson silk. The nine-
inch cuffs on the long sleeves, and the pointed turn-
over collar were of the same material. She did not
walk, she progressed; and the crucial test of her
magnificent ensemble is that I do not remember
what her face was like.
The wattle tossed its golden spray all over
this city on September 1. In honor of the
event the unemotional motor broke out in a
new place, and flaunted nodding plumes near
its front window; the serious cart-horse
waved a bloom that scratched his winkers;
and the Girl got into a lingerie blouse to meet
the first warm breath of early summer, and
perspired gently behind a yellow haze. In
the evening, Acting-Premier Holman exploded
at the King’s Hall in eloquent defence of
national sentiment. Curator Maiden, one of
the fathers of the Wattle Day junketing,
took the chair. Hon. Sec. Mrs. Agnes
Kettlewell, who mothered the Wattle Infant
from its first squeak; Mrs. David, Chief
Hatter Storey, Bruce Smith and other mag-
nates and minors took a hand in the King’s
Hall floral riot.
Carrie Lanceley’s concert to help five hos-
pitals got into the shadow of grand opera;
nevertheless, the Town Hall was fairly well
filled, and the Girl did her best in clear
soprano tones to make an artistic success of
it. The string orchestra, which accompanied
Carrie’s first two numbers, Elgar’s “Plead-
ing” and Amy Woodford-Finden’s “Re-
quest,” gets off with a caution for its inci-
dental efforts to swallow up the Girl’s softer
notes by too-vigorous fiddling.
St. Cecilia Choir (feminine gender) is
young in spots, and fairly fresh in its voices
—also in spots. Some of it has a wilted air,
and seems too tired to open its mouth wide
enough to let the sound escape. One back
row of the choristers at the Lanceley concert
sang through its nostrils, with a slight auto-
matic movement of its upper teeth. The
choir wants whisking up—it’s too flat on top.
At the same concert Percy Herford’s aggres-
sive phrasing of Gounod’s “She Alone
Charmetli My Sadness” had a fist in it; and
Pearl Palmer got through her attack on the
piano keyboard with considerable success.
The Admiralty lady, who lent her ground-
floor to the D.A.D.E. (Depot of Arts and
Domestic Economy) discussion the other
day, met the visitors with a soft smile on
her lips, and a bunch of violets in her hand.
The little daughter hung about Lady King-
Hall’s dove-grey drapery as juvenile under-
study. The problem to be discussed was:
“What are the aims and methods, etc., of the
new Sydney Club?” and the pot-plants near
the dais tottered under the arguments. The
Acting-Gov.’s lady took the chair. Mrs.
Bassett, president of the D.A.D.E., tossed a
long white feather in her black millinery;
Mrs. Moseley dilated on the duty of the
“Working Gentlewoman” towards button-
holes and other tribulations connected with
the home-made stitch; the Calico Knight’s
lady inserted a wedge of praise for the new
Depot scheme; and Mrs. Brown-Eyed Mac-
kinnon put on the pace in the matter of
pickles, hams and other domestic virtues as
practised by the pioneers of New England
(N.S.W.).
The Society of Artists had a mild revel in
students’ work last week. Souter’s cats will
have to earn their living catching mice in-
stead of licking their chops on dados, etc.,
if one girl-student goes on specialising in fur,
whiskers and claws; Miss Josephson’s way
with pussy’s tail is getting up alongside the
expert Souter’s. Miss Lovett, who took Sid
Long’s place, has sold her little lot of painted
ware to an appreciative public. A tall blue
vase in the French style shows a Nymph’s
Saturday night out; another handsome piece
of crockery by this artist is a clever grouping
of attractive damsels taking a sun bath. Mrs.
Ashton exhibits some china of charm, and the
studio walls bristle with ideas in oil, char-
coal, and other mundane mediums. Julian
Ashton, still fighting, has his ears pricked
to catch the clink of the hammers that may
some day get to work on the foundation-stones
of the Beeby Art Palace.
Lieut.-Gov. Cullen was in charge when the
Prisoners’ Aid Association wagged its tongues
in council the other day. The Town Hall
vestibule was the scene of this annual record
of the Society’s efforts to help the bird with
the broken wing to hop out of its cage with
an olive leaf in its beak.
Cards to view a meeting called “The Syd-
ney General Poor Relief Fund” lately flut-
tered across the city. Then a hurried denial
from Lieut.-Gov. Cullen of the statement that
he was “Patron” dropped in to the morning
papers. Gov. Chelmsford is “patron,” and the
Acting-Gov. isn’t going to steal this perquisite
behind his Ex.’s back. An icy postscript now
chases the card-to-view —“Meeting can-
celled.” Sydney General Poor Relief Fund
seems to be suffering from an effusion of ink-
pots to its head.
The National Council of Women nobly
gave the Women’s Conference another chance
to get some of its excess language off its
chest (it had been restrained by a tiine-limit
bell at the regular meeting), by gathering it
together one evening in the Royal Society’s
rooms. Refreshments and remarks were
served up at the same time.
Various Australians with a Scottish Sab-
bath in their parentage have recently
strayed through Edinburgh’s best street in
search of ancient Holyrood. George and
Mary have been temporarily in the presen-
tation business there. Probably Holyrood,
with electric light turned on its moth-eaten
history, had Rizzio’s “blood-stain” spring-
cleaned for the occasion. Having person-
ally inspected this splodge of red paint, I
know it only wants a new lick about once
in 10 years or so, a coat of dust being
rather helpful than otherwise to its occupa-
tion as a Rizzio relic.
The late Chief Justice Darley’s daughter
Sylvia, whose fair thatch was prominent at
Government House when the unattached
Gov. Beauchamp was shepherded by sister
Mary, was among those present at the Holv-
rood pilgrimage. 1 fancy that Sylvia’s first
husband, a Baronet Anstruther, was search-
ing in the Jenolan Caves, or thereabouts,
for longer-life microbes, when he chanced
across the Darley family. He was Heredi-
tary Carver to the King; but nis speedy
demise passed the royal joint, as well as the
family fortune, on to his son Frederick. It
is alleged that when this infant trekked
across Holyrood, George asked him if he
really could carve. Widow Sylvia lost her
title by dropping into matrimony for the
second time, and is now Mrs. Algernon H.
Tracy.
Two ancient Australian commercial
firms will presently break out into a
joint orange-blossoming. Major Richard
George Bright, a son of C. E. Bright,
C.M.G., and the Hon. Mrs. Bright,
of Elstree, Hertfordshire is to be
the bridegroom, and Muriel, a daughter of
baronet Robert Lucas-Tooth, the bride. Mrs.
Bright, the bridegroom’s mother, is a daugh-
ter of Viscount Canterbury, who was Gov-
ernor of Victoria when the Duke of Edin-
burgh was gaining experience of divers sorts
in Australia in tli6 late ’GO’s. She married
C E. Bright, of Bright Brothers, at St.
John s, Toorak in 18G6.
Maoriland is collecting its spare bawbees
for the purpose of giving a new musical find
a chance to make a name for herself in
Europe. This is Carreno’s opinion on the
subject: “All over the Avorld people come to
me and ask that I should hear them play.
I hear them. I say, ‘Ah, yes, your playing
is very fine, very good, all that. I compli-
ment you.’ But I do not say, ‘You have
soul. You have a future. Come home to
Berlin and study with me.’ But that is
what I say to Miss Renee Queree.” And
Miss Renee Queree is naturally feeling very
good about it.
From an old hand in London :
Another vanishing source of revenue for the singe-
ami instrumentalist. is the decay of the “musical
evening in fashionable houses—dry-rotted bv
“motor-cars and the growing habit of week-ending
in the country. So aspiring and ambitious Aus-
tralian maidens who fancy they have unrecognised
Melba voices had better think more than ever be-
fore migrating’ to the modern Babylon.
Lamberti, the impersonator who finished
his season at the Tivoli this week, carries as
a charm a bullet which his sister picked up
on the battle-field of Magersfontein during
the enraged argument between the British
and Boers. The lady, who is Dr. Barrie
Lambert, was the only fully-qualified doctor
on the nursing staff in S.A. during the war,
and anybody who wants to write in appre-
ciation of her services will find her practis-
ing in Maida Vale, London. Inci-
dentally, she is the only lady lecturer em-
ployed by the London County Council, and,
altogether, earns about half as much money
as her brother. If she earned only a quarter
sue could keep pace with the 'fashion in
motor-cars.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Marsden (she was
a daughter of the late Mrs. Mary Thorne, of
Prestonville, Potts Point) and familv left
by the Osterley for Foaland. The Mars-
den eldest son has developed wireless tele-
graphy bumps, dabbles in mechanics and in-
vention, and will inquire into the habits of
modern machinery in the Old World.
St. Vincent’s Hospital ball will occur in
the Town Hall in October race week. The
Denman Excellencies have been borrowed, and
a gilded Government House retinue will
clank its heels through the official Lancers.
Will Shakspeare’s characters have been
snared to give a tone to the fancy-dress sets.
(Shakspeare, by the way, only emerged for
use after several scratchmittee gather-
ings had severely jumped on his corpse.)
Non-fancy attire may also, however, waltz
across the ballroom. Mrs. G. Lane-Mullins,
Mrs. T. H. Kelly, Mrs. Kenna, and Mrs.
John Hughes are helping to push the results
into a fat cheque.
Concord Ball, which is heavily gilded with
vice-regal and Admiralty House patronage,
will take place at Cabarita on September 12.
The Western Suburbs’ Cottage Hospital is
the cause of this outbreak. Hon. Sec. S. A.
Kemp and Hon. Treas. J. J. Shipley are
shoving the ball into the public eye.
Surf-bathing clubs’ vice-presidents sprout
like mushrooms all over sea-side resorts;
and the Bondi Club battled with the growth
in a general meeting last week. It had 110
vice-presidents, and wanted to slay a score
or two, for the annual guinea which is sup-
posed to be a vice-president’s thanks-offering
doesn’t always roll in, and, when it does, it
isn’t compensation enough for the regiment
of hon. officials. After the slaughter, 98
vice-presidents were amongst the missing.
Twelve apostles remain to preach the gospel
of the Bondi breakers; amongst these sur-
vivors are Macarthur Onslow, M.L.A., and
Mr. Oakes.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


mmmm
m
hti
AXX
\m
'm
sy
Wm
i i.<i .n
mm
m
■
.
r,^
ss
&k?3g
| ; :
■'•■■: S- l
:/W:: :
m
1
It
A
II
-..v
B
■
i
i V
n
S-ft M
ifc I
J's«
if
Ax
pfiitifi
|.l H-ftfffl
ff.
lift
"■': r
in
IS?"
B
14111
m
m§>
'■T
tiyt-S'XS
‘mm.
to
/ -
■ - -
¥^£3
iPi
•■ V?
*&£&*
«§| 8 H
■^X.
ASK
•Qjgqfrr.
»
*«SSpI
>'«■■ <^.:u
?iy>r\y<.a
V
Mi
§!
4
pg&SS
si*
*ffi
<m
m
Wk.
< r *
74
>1
i
3. I
:40sm
ms
m
MS
4
sip
w
BSli#
wssgm
%m.
>
m
m
To%'
m
m.
MS
m
W®k
m>
m
m'i
ki&t:
«§ t
m
m
’4>'^sA
■ ‘ • f
sM
181 l
&2
SIS
OR
m i
i
SS
s>s
If
m
54
SM
gs
’wm
Wi4
*„. ■‘-"i
S?fiS
as
2
|f. ' . •<;•'" •' ;
, ■■-' 'v av „ ? -’■
COBRA FLOOR POLISH is as
good as COBRA BOOT POLISH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Polishes the
Floorcloth, too.
Till you say,
‘ For goodness sake
It’s like walking
On a lake ! ”
Cobra Polish
Always use
For the floorcloth
Boots and shoes :
And this maxim
Think upon :
‘ Chunder puts the
Polish on !


LIVER TROUBLES
Are no more than simple stagnation caused by a
lazy liver, due to constipation. Relief is always to
be had by taking a few doses of Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets. Chamberlain’s Tablets are an ideal medicine
for old 'and young. Easy to take, pleasant and gentle
in action, do not gripe or purge, but surely relieve
constipation.*
IHC
UHV.OP
y O rW» l
Cvc\' l 'B
3
TRIE
'CrCIBTJ
“All About
Cycling”
is a 72-page Booklet
THAT EVERY CYCLIST
SHOULD HAVE. It
embraces every phase of
Cycling, including selec-
tion of machine, gears, &c-
Touring, Road and Track
Racing, Training, &c., in
fact it deals with every-
thing that any rider wants
to know about Cycling.
You can obtain a Copy for
the asking. w jjj p OS t
you a Copy upon receipt
of penny stamp.
SEND AT ONCE, THE
ISSUE IS LIMITED.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne,
255 Clarence Street, Sydney
92 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
67 King Street, Perth.
268-270 Adelaide St.. Brisbane
Wellington and
Christchurch,
N.Z.
Ensure
Satisfaction.
<?
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydne*
Adelaide. Pertk.
Brisbane and
CbrisUkurck N.L
Mining
Goods
.are now used on all
the leading Mines on
account of their
Quality, Wear aPrioe
OUR Suction 1
Hoses, Rubber and
Batata Belting,
Packings and In-
sertions, Valve and
Sheet Rubber, etc.,
have no equal.
That’s why we are
now doing over 70%
of the Mining Rub-
ber Goods Trade
of Australasia.
Trader* aid Sample* Satotfite*.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 4, 1911.
My Bear Yarrie, —
MisS “Auntie” Phipps, of State Govern-
ment House, received a mild shock during a
recent vice-regal visit to a country town.
She and a devoted aide wandered off to see
the sights, and went into a small shop to
make a purchase. The lady behind the
counter was inclined to be friendly, and
chatted away as she tied up the package.
“You’re from England, aren’t you?” she in-
quired. Miss Phipps admitted it. “I thought
you were,” said Mrs. Shopkeeper. “I picked
you by your accent. You speak just like
Mr. Thompson, the new man at the butcher’s
opposite. He’s an immigrant, too.”
The Fuller nursery contingent has not
been seen at any public function for some
time now. At the beginning of the reign,
never less than three of the quiverful were
trotted out at a time, with Auntie Phipps or
Aide Awdry as guide. Now it is Auntie
and Aide minus the minors. In many a
suburban household there is a mutual feel-
ing of unrest and a strong yearning to lead
the Fuller life.
Lord Charles Scott, who died the other
day, full of years and medals, created a stir
in our Sassiety circles in the ’Bo’s by marry-
ing an Australian girl—Ada, daughter of
Colonel Ryan. The Ryans had a lovely
country house at Macedon, with a Garden of
Eden attached. Of late years, the blossoms
thereof have been rented to a florist—which
must be rather sad for the garden-makers.
On one memorable occasion, the Ryans gener-
ously gave the flowers of one week to char-
ity, and realised thereby the sum of £5OO.
A distinguished member of the family is
Mrs. Rowan, the flower painter. In her
maiden days she lovingly tended the Eden
and acquired a knowledge of botany.
Major Quilter, the big Grenadier, has
marched across the border and gone on to
Sydney to make ready the way for the Den-
mans, who go north after they have escaped
from the maze of machinery and animals
which is the Royal Agricultural Show.
Last week’s “Chatter” alleged that a top-
paling had to be shifted from the way of the
G.-G. lady in the hunting field. Hunting
may have been made easy for some other
Diana of the chase, but for Lady Denman —
never! The G.-G.’s lady is an accomplished
rider, with an intrepid soul, and if anybody
slipped a top rail off it was a wicked asper-
sion on her horsemanship.
Ethel Irving and her hubby, Gil-
bert Porteous, were invited to tear food
at the Melbourne residence of the G.-G. Den-
mans. Former Governors rarely unbent so
far as to sit at meat with the most cul-
tured or clever on stage or platform, though
one Excellency was not so averse to theatri-
cal or other amusing company under —well,
favorable circumstances. On one occasion
he asked a leading lady to enjoy the pink
lights and privacy of supper a deux. At
another time he smote a visiting singer
with a polished request to come to lunch.
Both invitations were declined —the second,
it was said, in the haughty terms of an in-
jured lady.
Dolores, in a golden gown and a seraphic
smile, sang to a delighted Town Hall audi-
ence on Saturday night. “I am always
eager for new songs,” says the gentle wo-
man. “So much that is exquisite is buried
in old scripts; I sigh because I cannot learn
them all.” However, she has learnt so many
that her repertoire, to which she is continu-
ally adding, is more extensive than any
other singers. She is always searching, and
her happiest way of “resting” is to burrow
into dustheaps for song-gems which have
been forgotten for years. She arranged a
beautiful string for Saturday’s recital, and
told them off in a setting of spring flowers
—pink plum petals, violets and primroses.
Suburban Sassiety has been worrying to
discover the identity of the elegant young
man with a gold-rimmed monocle whose
photo, lately appeared profusely in the pic-
ure papers. The talked-of stranger is Nor-
man Raphael, son of a prodigiously wealthy
Raphael, whose money moves in the highest
English circles. Young Norman is touring
the universe on an allowance of £lO,OOO a
year or so, with his cousin (male sex) for
pal-de-voyage. He is a horsey swell —the
pater is noted for expensive steedflesh —and
some of the time when he isn’t lounging at
Melbourne Club he whiles away in riding
along Alexandra Avenue, which reminds him
faintly of deah old Rotten Row. in his way,
the charmingly-outfitted Norman Raphael is
most impressive.
Herbert Wertheim, son of Hugo, is matri-
monially engaged to Miss Daisy Lucas,
daughter of the late Charles Lucas and sister
of lawyer Hugh Lucas, of this city. She is
a white-capped sister of the Children’s Hos-
pital, which will lose one of its most capable
nurses when she says good-bye to the wards.
Another engagement. The contractors this
time are Dr. Deravin, brother of Dr. Arthur
Deravin, the golfer who figured prominently
in the recent tournament, and Bella Illing-
worth, a big, blond*, country girl, who is by
way of being an heireC?. She was the ac-
knowledged belle of Fleet Week, and dangled
from her belt the scalps of many of Uncle
Samuel’s star-spangled officers.
Two sprigs of Sassiety contrived to wed
last week without any advertisement what-
ever. Ethel Graham, daughter of politician
George, was one conspirator; the other was
a scion of the Hope-Campbell clan. Only
the nearest relatives of the pair got within
shoe-throwing distance. The guests had to
be few or many, as the family connections of
the bride’s people extend to regiments of
Grahams, Wards, Coles and McCraes. The
newly-weds are off to Westralia, where the
bridegroom has urgent business to look after.
Ruby Glover, one of Melbourne’s prettiest
girls, has said “Yes” to Mr. Godfrey Gar-
rick, of Taviuni, Fiji.
Even more imposing than the wedding
march down the aisle is the Block parade by
the bride when she returns from the honey-
mooning. The most recent Toorak wife
promenades, proudly wearing a beautiful
frock, a lace butterfly in her hat, and the
superior air of the newly-wed. As a rule,
she has a double escort, a leisurely brother
sauntering at her disengaged elbow, and
helping her Indian captain-husband to show
her around.
Lieutenant-Colonel C. R. Gaunt, brother
of the two naval Gaunt captains, has been
given command of the Fourth (Royal Irish)
Dragoon Guards. As a family, the Gaunts
are giving Bull valuable help to rule the
seas and govern the land.
The other day, at Buchan, where a Bush
Nurse has just commenced work, a com-
mittee-woman was riding, to a meeting, when
her horse threw her heavily. Nurse Hurnall
hastened to the injured lady and skilfully
patched her. The patient, who is now doing-
some of the mending herself, fervently
thanks her stars that she helped to get the
scheme extended to her district.
The Staughton dame threw open St.
Neot’s to the Swastika Literary and Dram-
atic Circle t’other Monday night, for the
Club’s initial performance. For the occa-
sion the acre or so of ballroom was dis-
guised as a tropical jungle, with palms and
smaller vegetables. Agnes Jansen had
charge of the musical portion of the pro-
ceedings, and sang impressively. Unie
Russell and Beatrice Cox played the French
scene from “Henry V.”; and Mr. A. O.
Nicholson sang some weird love songs, one
of them by Henry VIII., composed, pre-
sumably, during one of his searches for a
new Mrs. VIII. I listened attentively for
the thud of the headsman’s axe, but couldn’t
catch any souad resembling it. Mrs. Jan-
sen evidently does not believe in Sousa
methods; John Philip would have introduced
a sort of wood-chopping contest somewhere.
Another ditty was by Charles No. 1, and it
sounded just like what might have been ex-
pected from that sad-faced Tory.
A cotton-wool snowstorm in a state of
suspended animation hung over the slippery
floor of the Glassy Harem on Thursday
night, when the only carnival of the season
took place. All Sassiety that retains the use
of its limbs struggled into fancy dress, and
glid over the pepper-and-salt surface. The
Frank Madden girls, wearing Dutch caps,
drew a daffodil car after them; Guido Bar-
acchi had the Watson heiress, Marie Hall,
and two other pretty girls on a blue string;
and John Madden’s Beatrice, in an emerald
green dress, and with an old woollen shawl
round her head, looked the real colleen.
The duetting Gregor-Woods and Miss
Hume Black, with her ’cello, gave a pleasant
recital in Beale’s Rooms, on Thursday after-
noon. R. F. Fox tore accompaniments
out of the piano, and, in the interval, the
cheerful clink of teacups and saucers was
heard.
The Victorian Artists’ Mask Ball, to be
held on September 15, promises to be the
most hilarious function on record. An iron
rule has been made that revellers must come
in fancy dress and remain masked until a
late hour. The artists have designed them-
selves alluring posters, which catch the sob-
erest citizen’s eye, and set him yearning for
gaiety. These works of art are to be sold
at the dance by a brisk auctioneer. The grate-
ful Marshall Hall, for whose Conservatorium
the hop is being will supply the
music, and it will be plentiful enough to fill
the vast Town Hall. The Gaud Mayor has
lent the whole pile for the occasion, and the
picturesque balcony will be fixed up with red
livhts and awnings, which will shelter, yet
not conceal, the masqueraders from the curi-
ous eye of the man in the street.
Dutch-Australian painter Scheltema has
a mixed exhibition of paintings at Tnckett
Chambers. The artist’s old, likeable arrange-
ments of cattle and Australian bush are in-
terspersed with some reverential bits of
British scenery. There are pictures of Arun-
del and Stirling Castles, and the beech-bor-
dered walks on the Duke of Argyll’s Inver-
aray estate. The one Dutch item shows
some yards of canal supported by a sky of
lead and scrambled egg. A solitary figure-
subject displays a young lady who looks too
bored to worry over the way she is painted.
The gilded frames of the pictures are very
successful, and four of the Scawtch subjects,
also several of the cow pictures, found pur-
chasers right away. Scheltema did well to
choose Show Week for his display, and, as
an exponent of commercial instinct in art,
he deserves a playful dig in the ribs.
The grey-towered house which frowns over
the Yarra was the scene of a polite battle
last week when the Widow Staughton, who
had secured the Denman lady as chief
patroness for her Try Boys’ dance, arranged
her forces for the first committee meeting in
one of the sacred drawing-rooms. Brand-
new aides and secretaries hovered about, and
longed for a glance or two at an up-to-date
“Who’s Who?” The ha/tted women, ranged
in neat rows, waited and conversed in
hushed whispers till the place seemed like a
prayer-meeting, and the pamphlet-burdened
aides had the air of hymn-book distributors.
At last two tall purple-and-silver circum-
stances strode softly into the room, carrying
a Chippendale table, which they placed near
the fire. Two more purple decorations fol-
lowed with silver ink-bottles and one pen.
Then the leading lady slipped quietly in,
looking slender and anxious in a powder-
blue house dress.
“President’s Day” brought the tourna-
ment of last week at the Royal Golf Club
Links to a sociable end. As a compliment
to the womenfolk, there were mixed four-
somes and doubles, and the daffodil-decked
clubhouse re-echoed the gossipy clatter of
cups and saucers. The soda syphons were
not absolutely silent; but they hissed in a
properly subdued way. Women in garden-
party rig overran the place, while a sprin-
kling in the knitted coat and cap of the
female player sat around and discussed the
games. Scobie McKinnon, big and florid
under a verra Scotch cap, filled the part of
host. Alister Clark, a keen man with the
sticks, and the donor of the decorative blooms,
was also in evidence, ready and eager to
name tne beautiful products of his wilder-
ness-garden for admiring visitors. Depart-
ing motor parties bore off armfuls of daffo-
dils and wild flowers gathered on the links;
hut the floral harvesting is only permitted
by the male hosts on ladies’ day. The Royal
is purely a man’s preserve, and is so closely
barricaded that an outsider could not get in
with a battering ram. Also, it is so well
.stocked with members that after the plea-
sure of being proposed is over, the golfer
has to wait on the mat for about five years
before room can be found for him on the
greens. Its most distinguished member is
the Hon. Michael Scott, who just failed to
land the Irish championship last week. Scott
should be a crack player, for he pitched his
villa at the very gates and golfed regularly
as long as the light lasted. Other members
have done well “abroad.” Recently T. H.
Fitzgerald left his sheep long enough to go
to Cannes in the south of France, and wrest
a gold bangle, donated by the Grand Duke
Michael of Russia, from a herd of other
goffing competitors.
The Stuart Murrays have planted a new
house within sight of the little “Royal” flags.
It is a big, blank-faced, red cottage which
stares from the rising ground fronting the
club’s domain. The owners motor round to
the clubhouse in a new car, which bears
some resemblance to an icecream waggon; it
is pale butter color, and has a double-striped
awming. Dr. Leary is another enthusiast
who cannot live more Fnan a coo-ee away. In
his recreative hours, the clubhouse ’phone is
the likeliest instrument to find him with. The
ancient game never seems to lose its hold on
its votaries. After playing all day, Mrs.
Stanley Riddell, an old golfer, was once dis-
covered playing by herself in the dusk. The
sun had long departed; but the keen-eyed
enthusiast was waiting until night abso-
lutely dropped the curtain.
Those of us who have been praising George
Dancey’s panels at Her Majesty’s may well
spare a word to mention Albert Enes, who
painted the female figures adorning the roof.
Enes is a local man ; with a fine faculty for
handling greys in his decorations.
Minnie Grant Bruce, who wrote “Little
Bush Maid,” is about again, looking very
white and wan after a spell of illness. The
“Maid” has gone off very well, and is still
moving at a hand-gallop. A new book by
the same authoress will be on sale shortly.
On September I (Wattle Day), Mel-
bourne Writers’ Club farewelled Rose Bol-
drewood, authoress of “The Complications
at Collaroi.” “Rolfe’s” youngest daughter
is shortly to sail for South Africa (where
the fashionable novel grows nowadays). She
will live in a farmhouse and gather material
for a book in which all the popular literary
props will be served up attractively. Rose
looks like being the only member of the
family upon whom the ink-stained mantle of
the father may hang without a wrinkle.
Dr. Leary, the young golfing medico of
Sandringham, has gone over to Sydney for
the Medical Congress with a learned paper
in his kitbag. The suburb by the sea re-
cently Suffered a serious epidemic of diph-
theria, and he had the opportunity of study-
ing it closely. It seems that anti-toxin,
though it cures the trouble, does not destroy
the germ, and the convalescent is a source
of danger to others. Leary reckons he has
found a way to destroy the germ, and he
will set out to try to prove it when his turn
comes to speak. Medicine is the family fail-
ing of the Leary family; his father, three
brothers and two brothers-in-law all live
behind brass plates.
The Old Exchange, from which spot The
Bulletin looks at Melbourne, was put up
to auction last week; but the highest bid
was a paltry £90,000, so the propputy was
withdrawn. The Money Millers are the
owners, and they have enough spare cash to
be able to look at £90,000 without getting
excited.
My Adelaide correspondent writes: —
Steeplechase Day on Saturday was a dream of
Spring frocks. Lady and Miss Bosanquet made their
first public appearance after their Queensland trip,
and both looked well. Lady Frederick provided the
sensation of the day, by paying a dividend of £79
10s. in the first race (after which half the women on
the course won.dered why they hadn’t backed her—
“because of the' play, you know”), and The Greek,
for A. P. BfTVvman, and Tadanga, for “Dick” Hawker,
landed some more big stakes where they weren’t par-
ticularly needed.
The Adelaide Hunt Club had its run in the morn-
ing, to leave sporting members free for the races after
lunch. One of the fences brought disaster to Mr. Lang-
don, of Melbourne. Rumor at first made the case as bad
as might be, but later reports speak of “slight” im-
provement.
By the way, the S.P.C.A.’s new purchase, the horse
ambulance, made its initial appearance at Victoria
Park. Its first official act was to remove the slain
Killamey.
Our seven-times Mayor (Lewis Cohen) turned the
gaunt Exhibition building into a “Moorish palace”
on Thursday night, and asked 4000 people to dance
in it. Miles of red art muslin and over 5000 electric
lights (amber, red and green) were requisitioned,
and I was assured, in a hushed whisper, that 100
roast turkeys and 1000 lettuces were to be had for
the eating.
Mrs. Cohen wore her Court dress, shorn of its
train. It was of white satin and chiffon, with crystal
fringe and hand-worked embroidery. Melbourne’s
Mayoress appeared in a dress of oyster satin and
wonderful net embroideries that turned half the
women in the room green with envy.
Mayor Cohen’s “Moorish palace” was again on
view on Friday night, when a public promenade
concert occurred. A fair number attended, despite
the rain. Amongst the crowd were the corporation
employees and their families, and nurses from the
public hospitals.
Philanthropists and “Sunbeams” are having a wild
and woolly week feting Sir John Kirk, who’s devot-
ing his time to urging that more care be taken of
the all-important rising generation, and to visiting
those institutions which keep a paternal eye on the
young. The ungrateful youngster possibly prefers a
visit from some vice-regal, because that generally
means a half-holiday.
The Rev. E. 11. Miller, who died recently, is re-
ported to have paid £29 ss. into the Clergy Annuity
Fund, and to have received from it £3576. And
yet the clergy would deny us a sporting chance in
Tatt.’s!
Wattle Day was all wrong from a weather point of
view, but all right as regards the celebration. The
city looked as if it were waving a giant Chinese
flag. Tram cars sported a spray of the bloom at
each comer, and some of the engines rose to heights
of decoration which did their drivers proud. Bunches
of the emblem were sent to hospitals, etc., and lead-
ing officials were presented with a spray, so they’d
no excuse for not being patriotic! In the afternoon
the committee and its friends met at the May Club
rooms, at the invitation of Vice-President Sowden,
and made speeches and drank tea. Miss Boothby
rose to the occasion with wattle decorations and a
“yellow” table. The guests included our own Mayor
and Mayoress, as well as the visiting Daveys, who
seemed impressed with the way the notion has caught
on here.
Clytie Hine, the pretty soprano song-bird who is
studying at London Royal College of Music, has
caught another scholarship, the third in less than
three years. Present triumph is particularly desir-
able, as it not only pays the damsel’s fees for a year,
but provides for her maintenance in the smoky
village. Clytie is to take the leading soprano r6le
in thfe college opera again this year.
A bush nursing order, to be called the
King’s Nurses, is projected in the Apple
Isle. Mrs. Curly Keating is secretary of the
scheme. At Launceston, a magnificent ball
was recently rolled into shape to help the
bank account, and all the Very Best Fly-
speckers attended. Governor Barron and
his lady danced a set of lancers, and after-
wards fed at a table decorated with local
Beauty’s wreathed smiles. The Boy Scouts
were retained to cheer the vice-regal en-
trances and exits, and generally play the
part enacted by the stage villagers. The
net result of these heroic exertions was a
solid sum, which will not be eaten into by
expenses, the City Council and others hav-
ing loaned and donated pretty well every-
thing needful.
The County Court was filled the other
m °i' ni Dg with agitated members of the Aus-
tral Salon. Mrs. Quinnell, the popular
secretary of the club, was the plaintiff, and
appeared pale but composed under a hat of
pink heather. A mass of correspondence
which made the Court rustle excitedly, was
read aloud by a hard-voiced lawyer; after
which harrowing performance, his Honor
postponed the hearing for a month. If, in
the interim, the other lady in the case wilt
agree to take back all she w T rote, all will be
well. Most of the women interested had
dragged unwilling husbands with them, and
a good many clutched smelling salts as if
they were lifebuoys. Also, every female pre-
sent breathed a silent vow never to touch
pen and ink again except in the w 7 ay of kind-
ness. To hear one’s confidential communica-
tions read in a cold, level voice in open
court, with a dog howling round the corner
and a remote cornet puffing “What’s the
Matter with Father?” is enough to frighten
anyone off the volcanic inkbottle.
Sincerely yours,
JO[?]ANNA.
lhus an American critic, after seeing Sara Bern-
liardt not long ago: “There’s nothing sadder than Co
watch a relic of a former age come limping forth
and make a botch of noble dramas on the stage.
And nothing ever wrenched my heart like poor old
spying Art.” Which is probably why ,T. C.
Williamson did not carry out his threat to bring the
lady to Australia.


lIS
V
/
MB
I wr
m
tm
»
m.
m
m
; v
m
■
/ /
SfeM
■
\ <?
*
■
■
m:f
,2
1
KM
• ■' . • ;
35
arm
'te-
W
S*
SCHWEPPE
Pmiym<£ Mmt « 'fr*imto . I
*•!«* ttAJS ' s f> VKf. *S&Z
«.&« mi cr waue*
. H uvr , ; ?,«. <**, m» *Nt*
ma,u)NDO^;
Hi 1 Hi
iBSW
11 HBB
mmSMm
■;.y
.
Made from Fresh Lemons.
Mixed with Schweppes* Soda Water or Lithia Water,
maKes a most Delightful and Refreshing DrinK.
Purveyors of Mineral Waters to His Majesty the King.
Head Office: 4$ Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World.
SARTO.
THE NEW DRINK.
Palatable and Refreshing. Made from the Best
Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root. A Blood Purifier.
BOTTLED by SCHWEPPES LTD.


Old Ol»Ol»Ol Ol Ol Ol OI*OI'OI Ol*Ol Ol Ot 0101
(g)
01 fti oi oi oi oi oi oi 01 ObOl 01 01 Olfejn 0101
:;V '”T um Kg V:
<rr*ci
i
OVER a quiet game of cards,
with some ripe old friends
gathered together, there you , ll
find the ruling spirits are good
fellowship and
WATSON'S
NO. to WHISKY
About Rheumatism
Treating the Complaint in a
Common-sense Way*
There’s nothing like a little common-sense
in treating Rheumatism. This is the way
to look at it. There is something that
causes rheumatism. The pains, aches and
swollen joints are only symptoms of the
cause. The complaint cannot be cured
until the cause is driven out of the system.
The pains and aches and swellings disappear
when there is nothing to cause them. Many
medical authorities agree that Rheumatism
is in the blood in the form of acid, and this
is why Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have been
so successful in curing the complaint. They
are a blood medicine, actually making new
blood and toning the system to a point that
enables it to throw off the rheumatic poison
through the channels of the body. There’s
another great point in their favor. Nature
always makes a big fight to drive out. any
complaint. The better the health the bigger
effort nature makes. As a general tonic
there is nothing better than Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills to put the body in a sound,
healthy condition. This is how Mrs. Sarah
Nichols, 278 Charles Street, Launceston,
-sured her Rheumatism, and her experience
should be of interest to other sufferers.
“I was only 32 when I was struck down
with Rheumatism,” said Mrs. Nichols. “It
attacked me in all my joints. The pains
were something dreadful, and I suffered the
greatest agony. I could not bear the bed-
clothes to touch me. I got very little sleep,
and lost the use of my left arm from the
elbow to the shoulder. I called in one of
the leading medical men. He gave me stuff
to rub in and also medicine, but neither
did me any good, only easing me for a time.
I suffered the greatest agony for about 12
months. My left arm was paralysed; I
could not move it from my side. Having
read in the daily papers of the wonderful
cures effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
I made up my mind to give them a trial,
but had very little hope. I got a box, and,
after taking half, I felt my arm better.
When I had taken a box I could move my
arm from my side. I improved every day.
and when I had taken three boxes I was
completely cured, and was able to work as
well as ever. In fact, it was wonderful
what Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills did for me
in such a short time.” .
When you want Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
don’t be put off with anything else said to
be just as good. If you have trouble in get-
ting them, send direct to the Dr. Williams
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney,
who will send them by return, post free,
2s. 9d. for one box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
DENYER’S
SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS
OENYER
©
ensures
safety to
t)ie rup-
t.<ured, is
effective,
light and
cool in
wear.
Equally
c o m'f o r t-
able in erect
or reclining
position.
No Springs to
irritate.
Single 17/6;
Double 22/6.
We are Truss Specialists, and will fit you exactly.
All enquiries carefully answered.
IWNVED DDfK Makers of Trusses and
ISKUO., Abdominal Beits,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne—cor. Swanston & Lonsdale Sts.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Argus becomes more snobbish as it
grows older. It has just discovered that
“the itruth is that the Labor party is a new
party, and, therefore, without those tradi-
tions that give stability and dignity to
parties with a history behind them.” The
Argus, of course, uses as a standard that
extremely stable party which calls itself
Conservative to-day, and Liberal to-morrow,
and [Reform the day after, with a few odd
things in between. And it was, no doubt,
thinking also of the tremendous dignity of
Tommy Bent (“guts to a bear”) of Victoria,
and of Wood and Fitzparrot of N. S. Wales.
“Cross” : What about protecting our ship-
ping against the foreigner, as he protects his
against us? A vessel may go to one German
port only and discharge there, but may not
call from port to port for the purpose of
picking up or setting down freight and pas-
sengers. The Germans reserve their coastal
and oversea port-to-port delivery trade for
themselves ; we in our dunderheadedness al-
low foreign vessels to pick up and set down
at all our ports. And then we wonder at
the rapid growth of the armed German
marine, compared with the slow progress of
our Own —which, by the way, isn’t armed !
The failure of any attempt at law to upset
the new Speaker’s election in N. S. Wales
appears inevitable. C. G. Wade is the man
who suggested the appeal.
From the Age of a recent date: —
In the recent engineering trade trouble there had
been a Wages Board sitting leisurely once a week, in-
vestigating matters which were vital to the parties
concerned. The employees had lost patience, because
every week’s delay meant to them a loss of wages,
which the event showed was equitably due to them.
And just as the “law’s delay” often means the rum
of tlie suitor, so these exasperating delays in a
Wages Board tribunal may be the real cause of
trouble.
And the Age which now groans about the
Board’s “exasperating delays’’ is the journal
which, during the Referenda campaign last
March, fluted about the “simple, rapid and
effective mechanism” of those same organis-
ations, and called upon the State to save
itself from the slow horrors of Federal Arbi-
tration. No wonder Andrew Fisher thinks
that if Australia were given the chance to
speak again it would thunder out a “xes-
Yes!”
The Labor party in Maoriland is begin-
ning to view with belated suspicion the old,
threadbare assurance that the objects of the
“Lib-Lab” party are similar in character to
those of the Australian La.bor party, a.nd, in
order to obtain some definite information on
the subject, McLaren, M.H.IL, recently
tabled the following few questions for the
consideration of the Loanly Government:
Would the said Government take steps—
(l) To establish a State note issue and a State
bank ; , ,
(2) A State factory for the production of harness
and saddlery required in connection with the mili-
tary defence scheme ;
(3) A State clothing factory to provide uniforms,
etc., for those engaged in the defence and other
public services ; .
(4) A State cordite and small arms factories ; and
(5) Limeburning and brickmaking works under
the ownership and control of the State?
To these questions Acting-Prime Minister
Carroll gave another assurance of deep con-
sideration, metaphorically shook hands with
them, and ajked them to come back after
work and have a yarn.
THE PROTESTING TIGER.
A tiger for the Sydney Zoological Gardens arrived
in Port Jackson on Sunday from the Malay States
by the steamer Mataram.
THE TIGER (to absent-minded carrier): “ No,
you don't! No, you don’t! I signed on
for the Zoo! No State Parliaments [?]
me!”
It is proposed that the Speaker in the
House of Reps, shall dispense with all his
“symbols of authority.” Yet where is the
democratic reasonableness of abolishing the
Mace symbol from a Commonwealth which
is tinselled o'er with knighthoods and C.M.G.
distinctions? The abolition of one set of
gauds shrieks to Consistency to come and
lend a hand to abolish the other.
The latest scheme of Sydney D. T. is to
divide its pen down the middle; and by thus
providing two versions simultaneously, ac-
curacy is almost within the old party’s
reach. As an instance, the attitude of
Speaker Willis (N.S.W.) is reviewed on
August 30. In one leading article we learn
that:—
Members on the Government side of the House and
their friends in the galleries laughed with glee
when members of the Opposition, zealous to defend
the rights and privileges of Parliament, were arbi-
trarily ordered to their seats or made the victim of
the attentions of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
On the same page the bewildered reader is
informed that far from “defending the rights
and privileges of Parliament,” on the occa-
sion referred to, the Opposition had been
offensive to the Speaker ; but: —
The calm indifference with which Mr. Willis was
able to treat that futile display of ill-temper made
him the meretricious hero of the episode. And so it
will be with all such attempts to badger and bait
the Speaker by members whom he can, and under
the circumstances should, immediately order outside
until they learn to behave themselves in a manner
more worthy of a deliberative Assembly.
Still, the Telegraph would save its readers
time if it printed its bricks in black ink and
its bouquets in red. Then “Paterfamilias.”
desiring bouquets, wouldn’t have to stumble
over a column of bricks.
The best argument for compulsory defence
service that lias been used so far in Maoriland
comes from the Christadelphians, who are
lighting in alliance with the rump of the red-
flaggers on the side of general helplessness.
In an article urging its readers to “defend
their rights” on the question, the party s
official organ shouts :
Let us not be caught disorganised, and so be mal-
treated.
Which shows that even a Christadelphian
has his lucid moments.
IN TOPHET.
WHYUS : “ Who is Ananias bowing down to?"
T ELL US: “Oh, that's Liberal Ins, who has just
made a great hit with his election cir-
culars."
THE APPLES AND THE FOOLISH PER.
SON WHO DISFIGURED THE TREE
IN TRYING TO GET THEM.
THE BOY : “Well, it was a rotten implement,
after all, wasn't it ? ”
The Fisher Government is mustering up
courage to frame new Standing Orders for
the House of Successive Gov-
ernments have been too tired and too con-
servative to sweep out the old anachron-
isms, and the Usher of the Blue Cod, the
Mace, the Major-domo or Sergeant-at-Arms,
and all the other flummery have been al-
lowed to prance round without even a dead
marine being thrown at them. Nqw, it is
proposed to sack a few of them, and Mace,
who isn’t related to the celebrated Jem, has
been given a hint that he is likely to be the
first to go.
DOCTORS BAFFLED. ' ~~
All aged people should read this remarkable letter
from Mrs. Patience Thomas, of, Belmont Road, Gee-
long, Vic. “Last winter I got a frightful cold on
the lungs, and, being 81 years of age, the doctors
refused to prescribe for me, saying that at my age
medicine would be dangerous; but, knowing that
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy bears the Government
analysis, showing that it contains no poisons or
narcotics, I tried it; and three bottles were the
means of giving me back my natural health. I am
so old now that I cannot use my pen, so am getting
my niece, Mrs. E. Wylie, to sign this.”*
With the recent English Revolution fresh
in the newspapers files, Solemn Lee asked
the N.S.W. Gasembly last week what was
the use of our industrial laws, seeing that
they had failed to prevent the Lithgow
trouble. Yes, certainly ! And what’s the use
of the police, seeing that there was a burglary
last week. And Solemn Lee might also ex-
plain what’s the use of parsons, seeing that
somebody was recently supposed to have
gone to Gehenna.
Willy Watt, Victoria’s Acting-
Premier, probably never realised
what q meal of ashes there is on his
plate until he considered the con-
stitution of the “Liberal” crowd
which turned tail on him over the
Preferential Voting Bill. The
nine Ministerialists who exercised
the usual “Liberal” privilege of
selling their friends, were mostly
the remnants of the Cabinet which
rode to ruin along with T. Bent.
They included Argyle, who was
Bent’s Whip ; Bowser, who was his
amiably incompetent Railways-and-
Education figurehead ; Mackey, the
“educated Minister,” who failed in
department after department;
McLeod, the drifting Minister for
Mines; “Andy” Robertson, the
honorary Minister who represented
the squatters in Bent’s Cabinet;
old-man Langdon, Who was a joke
in the Ministry until Bent un-
kindly shied him out; Gray, a
noted sorehead ; and Alec Peacock-
of-the-Laugh, who fled from the
Bent Ministry amid unforgettable
odors. Added to these was Norman
Bayles, the foolish person who re-
presents Toorak, and had his leg
pulled by the astute old hands. Of
such is the “Liberal” party—a
party of fag-ends that never looks quite so
disreputable as when it is exposing itself in
its own sordid quarrels.
If the Law had any sense it would long
ago have declared, once and for all, that the
man who uses any animal or vehicle that isn’t
his, without the owner’s leave, is liable to
punishment; but, instead, it went into de-
tails, and mentioned the particular things
that were not to be used. Hence, in these
days of the motor-car, the cheerful Victorian
youth who goes joy-riding, can snap his
fingers at the owner of the car. Even now,
when Nawman Bayles proposes to put a
patch on the law, he merely particularises
motor-cars, and in a few years probably
another animal or vehicle will be invented,
and then some other Norman will have to go
forth to conquer the new difficulty. It is
all so futile and untidy.
RULE I.—AN ALLEGORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our ridiculous Party System of Government insists
on the constituencies returning a majority for one
side or another, if Parliament is to be workable. —
B. 31/8/’ll.
For years the Pure Merino Club
In peace and order ran.
The Secretary’s name was Brown;
The Steward’s, James McCann.
James died —and in a little while
Sheer Anarchy began.
The trouble that convulsed this club
Of old and fair renown
Arose because the members had,
In searching through the town
For someone to replace McCann,
Engaged a man named Brown.
For by Rule I.—so senseless ’tis,
I mention it with shame —
Unless the Steward’s moniker
(That is to say, his name)
Was different from his colleague’s, all
Their powers were the same.
The Jeremiahs of the club
Had oft, in language hot,
Predicted trouble from Rule 1.,
And d—d it for a Blot:
Their Tory friends denounced such views
As “visionary rot.”
And now the members had a chance
To see Rule I. in use;
And, shortly, all the club was filled
With faces purple, puce
And black with rage; oaths hummed like bees
And blasphemous abuse.
Each time the Steward told a man
Or maid to sweep the hall,
Or dust a chair, or fetch a drink,
Or answer someone’s call,
The Secretary cried, “Desist!
Cease working, one and all.”
The Steward, not to be outdone,
Rejected everything
The Secretary ordered. Steaks
And poultry he would fling
Upon the rubbish-tip, and cheese,
And beer and bream and ling.
The servants, though they rarely worked,
Were in no wise content:
'iV.e Steward drew their wages-cheques—
But ev’ry time they went
To cash the same they found the Sec.
Had “stopped” each document.
The tradesmen fumed to see their goods
Cast scornfully aside ;
They fumed still more when to secure
The cash they vainly tried:
The Secretary wished to pay ;
That boon he was denied.
At last, when Ruin hovered like
A vulture o’er the place,
And ev’ry member saw himself
Involved in black disgrace,
The Pure Merinos took Rule 1.,
And stamped upon its face.
Envoi.
Not Clubs alone, but modern States
Have mad old Rules or Laws.
Whereby Progression’s checked and held
As though with iron claws —
A foolishness designed to give
'•The thinking voter pause.
N.S.tV.
M. SAFRAN.
THE VICTIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mud through which Parliament is dragged
when a Labor Ministry is struggling to preserve its
existence to the last possible minute is knee-deep.—
Argus, 23/8/’ll.
The saints of old—who were martyrs, too —-
They stuck to their creeds till all was blue,
And went, whenever their time was due,
Through fire and boiling water;
And the “Liberal” lamb, as white as snow,
Through oceans of slush is booked to go
(A sacrifice of a sort, you know)
To the Progress-yards, for slaughter.
Through horrible Labor slush, alas!
The “Liberal” lamb to his doom must pass,
No more to nibble the bright green grass
In the sunshine, sometimes skipping
With the joy of life that the seasons bring.
Early or late, the poor young thing
On the skinning-gallows must gently swing
With its dear neck drip.. .drip.. .dripping !
llow sad that the lamb for the slaughter must
Go walloping on in the slush, with just
No chance of raising a decent dust
Along with its bleating neighbor!
But the “Liberal” lamb has got to go,
Whether the poor thing likes it or no,
To the dreadful garden where lamb-chops grow—
Black shame to the butcher, Labor!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


ĥ
m
INSTANT CHANGE FROM
I PIANISSIMO TOh
FORTISSIMO OR ■
VICE-VERSA ■
NON-MECHANICAL
TOUCH
THE.
ABILITY TO
EMPHASIZE
ANY NOTE
ħ
ABSOLUTE
WARRANTY
FOR TEN
YEARS
h
sold for Cash
OR
Easy Terms
Arranged
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson &Co., limited
GEORGE ST. SYDNEY,
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, ORANGE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA & WARWICK.
MR. SHOWMAN!
TO MAKE YOUR
Pidture Theatre Pay,
YOU MUST BUY A
PATHE
PROJECTING
MACHINE
AND
HIRE YOUR FILMS
FROM
Pathe
50 Queen St.,
MELBOURNE.
DfcP° S^
Freres,
51 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY.
fim
'yl\
mm
v
flfW
l :>>
i .
m
:• >.
urn i
Ml I 1
ffn!
? i
Stylish
Summer
Shirts
at
Farmer’s.
THE shirts listed here
are made by Eng-
gland’s foremost
manufacturers. They are
made from exclusive
materials in the newest art tones and designs.
They are made to fit as shirts should fit; the neckbands accurate in
size, and the sleeves just the right length.
The prices are as low as they reasonably can be, quality of materia
and workmanship considered. Instances :
Cotton Crepe Shirts
(as illustrated),
with fancy stripe; splendid wearing material; gauntlet cuffs; and a
detachable double collar. Price O/O.
Neglige Shirts
Soft fronts, with stiff cuffs; linen neckband ; in a host of smart designs-
In Cambric, 7/0, 8/0 10/0.
In Zephyr, 4/0, 0/0, 7/0, 10/0.
In Oxford (double the weight of Zephyr). Prices 0/0, 7/0.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
nH'
\-!rsi
f
s. 0
hsu l r ii price '
wool dip
r
% VacmaiJ^
Itdofesjgt^


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Howland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, Is the best
d essing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
; London.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So'd by all Chemists.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Gorernor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES * CO., PEWTH, MiCOOCLIE awl OOOtCABPtE.
Bnwm akd OrricM:
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Thus the Mclnstoush, who reached Syd-
ney last Tuesday: “If there is a White Hope he’ll
have to be found in Australia, and I’m giving you
an honest opinion when I tell you Bill Lang is a
good hope. When Burns cabled me that he could
not meet Langford in London, Lang was the only
white man who was game to go into the ring with
the black. He had a good chance, too, right up to
the time he was d’squalified—rightly disqualified,
mind you—but the fight between the two in the
Sydney Stadium won’t, end in a disqualification, or
I’m much mistaken. Johnson will fight Langford,
McVea and Lang. If he beats the three he will retire,
after a tour through Japan, China, India, and a few
other round-about places. He wants to fight McVea
first. That McVea is good goods all right; and if
Lang does not get the belt he (McVea) will be the
next champion. He has fought Johnson three times —
once going up to the 20th round with him —and
he fought a draw with Langford in Paris.”
The Melnsplosh doesn’t take the coming Johnson-
Bombardier Wells fight seriously. The syndicate
which is handling the match approached Mac. before
he left London, with the view of matching Wells
with one of the big niggers under his contract, and
Mac. put it to them that he was in a hurry, but that
he would bet a good stout wad that McVea would
stop Wells in two rounds. So, unless the picture
rights get in the way, Massa Johnson shouldn’t be
working overtime the day he meets the ex-soldier.
* * * *
“0.K.” : The overwhelming Mclntosh, who
talks casually of a forthcoming outlay of £50,000 on
the importation of fighters, black and otherwise, seems
to give the game away when he asserts that “Bill Lang
is certainly the best white man living.” If Aus-
tralia is still burning with desire to see the stousli
championship wrested from a colored pusson, why
engage two or three more colored pussons, beside
Johnson, to give performances at enormous salaries?
Is Australia to be the Tom Tiddler’s Ground of all
de greatest niggahs and second-best white men in
the boxing world ? Is this gullible, sport-loving
community going to pay some tens of thousands of
pounds for the joy of beholding white men bite the
sawdust at the feet of their dusky conquerors, or the
ecstasy of witnessing the passing of the champion-
ship from one niggah to another? Public worship
of such hollow gods as Bill Squires (“the Hurricane
Fighter”), and Tahmmy Burns (“the Irresistible
Kidney Puncher”) was saddening, but the assurance
of the astute Mclntosh that Johnspn is to receive
£lB,OOO for revisiting Australia, whilst his colored
friend McVea will be “made quite a hero of,” on
account of his being a nice fellow- - this is worse
than saddening. It’s maddening.
Meanwhile, there is the bare chance that Johnson
will lose his championship to young man Bombardier
Wells, who presumably has at least a good sound
heavy-weight punch to recommend him,. Wells,
thus far, has been so very young' And* 'fresh at the
game that his public form seems less worth consid-
ering than the fact of his having j)eqn! guaranteed
25 per cent, of an £BOOO purse. To a.big 24-year-
old athlete, with some skill in boxing, a lot of rapid
improvement has been possible, what time a lot of
rapid disimprovement was possible to J. Johnson.
The Wells experiment has, the charm of audacity. If
tiie young man goes into the ring with strong nerves
strung up to concert pitch, he, will have one great
qualification which Tahmmy Burns and Jim Jeffries
Incited entirely. They went scared to the slaughter.
Johnson, by this time, must have almost forgotten
how to fight a man who isn’t frightened of him ; and
if, perchance, Wells be such a man, he may even
succeed in removing the golden smile from Jack’s
restless face.
*•* * •
The rough-up at Sydney Sports Ground
last week, between Bill Turner, the heavy-weight
champion of Tassy, and Jack Howard, of N. S.
Wales, ended after 2J rounds. Turner was the
woodened, and his chances of getting a battle with
Lang are up in the clouds. It was hard slugging
from the gong, but the man from Slowbart was not
in the same class as Howard, who is improving
every fight. Next to Lang, Howard is the best of
the Australian talent in the heavy division—which
is, of course, nothing to write a poem about.
* » * *
The Lang-Lester assault and battery en-
engagement, which was billed for Saturday last at
the Stadium, did not reach finality. In fact, it
didn’t start, owing to Billang handing in a certificate
that he had influenza or something. And now not
even the Inclement Wragge could prognosticate when
the fight will take place. The Stadium people have
been unlucky with their fights so far this season.
The first scrap was held up by bad weather for two
or three weeks; the Hill-Elliott event was post-
poned so often, for one cause and another, that it
appears to have been forgotten altogether, or thrown
overboard as a Jonah; and now the affair between
Griffin and Picato (the Yankee I-talian) has been
declared off.
* * * *
Kid McCoy, the clever young lightweight
of Melbourne, will have his first fight in Sydney
against Dick Cullen, an American boy, on October 7.
* * * *
Scanlon versus Carrie was a recent fight
of some consequence at Melbourne Athletic Club’s
chapel. Carrie is the ex-amateur champion welter-
weight of this State, who, since taking to profession-
alism, has not been beaten. Fie was not much put
to it in his scrap with Scanlon, although the latter
had half a stone to the good. In round 1 a violent
right swing connected with the larger man’s left
optic, and put a culvert over it. For the rest of the
mill Scanlon had to get along with one sidelight.
In the third Carrie’s in-fighting flummoxed Scanlon,
who took the worst half of a burst of punishment,
and was put down with a nice hook. On resuming
the erect attitude, he was not allowed time to for-
mulate a policy. When the process of rising and
falling grew wearisome to Scanlon’s corner, it
angrily hurled the serviette into the ring, and Carrie
had nicked another win.
» * * *
“Hacky” is now definitely “ex,” Frank
Gotch having beaten him in the “rastle” which took
place in America on Monday. Gotch won two
straight-out falls, the first in 7min., and the other in
14 min.
Dhobi’s win at Caulfield last Saturday,
with Bst. 131 b. up, was less remarkable in ttie
running than in the betting. He started at 20 to 1,
after trainer Jimmy Lynch and his friends had put
a few pounds on at 40’s and 50’s. They thought the
horse was almost certain to fail “for lack of condi-
tion,” in spite of his being so full of health. The
result suggests that his people have always made the
mistake of getting Dhobi too “fit” for his big en-
gagements. If Lynch can keep the nuggety animal in
steady work without taking any more flesh off him,
he should have a great chance at 7st. 51b. for the
Caulfield Cup, especially if the going happens to be
soft. Dhobi is always thought of as a non-stayer, but
two years ago he won the Caulfield Cup over 11 fur-
longs.
* * * *
Comedy King got beaten by 3-year-old
Flaith last Saturday, even as he was beaten by Eye
Glass at the same meeting last year. The black
crack can do with a little more work, no doubt, but
it is a question whether he also has not been some-
what overdone —like Dhobi —for some of his engage-
ments. When he won so handsomely at Randwick
last Spring, the condition of Comedy King was said
to be “capable of improvement,” yet he managed to
stay to the end of the Melbourne Cup without having
been improved at all.
* * » *
Broadsword's latest performance threw
no light on his Caulfield Cup prospects. In a 9-fur-
long race he led Flaith and Comedy King for a
while, but dropped away towards the finish. Broad-
sword was palpably above himself, but he might be
as fit as he was when he won the Doncaster, and still
want the extra stamina required for a 12-furlong
straggle.
* * * *
The totalisator once again rose to the
occasion at Adelaide, on Saturday, when Ivadlunga’s
win of Tattersall’s Handicap yielded a dividend of
£6l 7s. (with only 12 starters in the race) ; Peal’s
success in the Spring Handicap returned £l9 75.;
while Netherton’s second in the Juvenile Handicap
presented punters with £lO 6s. The continued
liberality of the machine is getting irksome; still, it
appears necessary to keep notifying a “welshed”
public that Moses is an unnecessary evil.
* * * *
After worrying over the trouble for three
weeks, the A.J.C. stipendiary stewards last week
disqualified trainer L. C. Want for five years for
tampering with the girth of racehorse Flavigny at
Rosehill on August 12. Prior to the start of the
August Handicap on that date, jockey H. Gray dis-
mounted and changed the girth, and the stewards
promptly seized it. According to the report, an ex-
amination of the girth presented “extraordinary
features,” and biffing was considered necessary.
Without being inhuman, the stewards might have
been much more severe in dealing with an offence
that might have ended in murder or mutilation.
Amid the cronkness the betting public suffered, since
Flavigny at one time was favorite; )>ut towards
starting time the long nose of Moses smelt a'rat and
the odds lengthened. While Want got the full brunt
of the biff, the stewards exonerated jockey and owner
from having a hand in the shocking business.
* * * *
“Bill” Marion Edwards, the she-male
whom the public only knows in man’s rig, is again
dabbling in “ponies” in Melbourne. The other day
she was called up before Jack Wren at the Fitzroy
meeting, to explain why her “boy” hadn’t been paid
the half-sov. for a losing mount. Billarion’s explana-
tion was that she had given it to a cobber, who had
been swallowed up in the crowd; but as cobber
and coin continued to be swallowed, the she-male
was called in again and fined £2. The lordly way
in which she spurned the Court when it announced
its decision suggests that Billarion is wasting her
time chasing shekels at pony meetings. If she could
turn down the villain’s shameful proposals like that,
there’s a fatter living for her in bellowdrama.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League first-grade
tussle between East Sydney and South Sydney, on
Saturday, was another advt. for Messenger. Before
a crowd of 12,000, Messenger recorded 20 points out
of his side’s 23, and at one time the 15 points
belonging to the club were all his. The first half
ended with East leading 6 to nil; then the tally was
lifted till play ended, amid fisticuffs, with East 23
ponts to South 10. Although referee McMahon didn’t
send any players off, too much yabber went on dur-
ing the game, and at times it got rough enough to
suggest that,the,referee.was losing the reins, especi-
ally towards the end, when Souths played the man
instead of the ball, and Messenger and others were
knocked about. East Sydney will tackle Glebe in
the final on Saturday next, and the League will act
wisely to notify the touch-line judges to keep an
eye on the things that drag the game into the
gutter.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs v. Redfern provided a
clinking game in the qualifying round of the
League second-grade semi-final on Saturday, when
Easts just squeezed out of trouble by 3 points to 2.
It was East’s day out at Rugby League football;
and it is a coincidence that in the final matches
next Saturday, clubs from Glebe and Eastern Sub-
urbs will meet in both first and second grades.
* * * *
Newington College gathered in this Syd-
ney season’s Great Public School football premier-
ship, with nary a defeat in nine matches —seven being
won and two drawn. As it is 11 years since the
College previously handled the title, the success
wasn’t out of turn. Big school football this season
has been the best shown for many years; principally
the result of Rugby Union coaches lending a hand.
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby Union premiership final,
on Saturday, proved a spirited tussle, during which
Newtown trampled University down by 27 points to
10. The teams had previously played three games
during the season, and as ’Varsity had won two with
good margins, it was expected that the Blues would
go down again. A vigorous first half saw Newtown
leading by 8 points to 3, which wasn’t much to
crow about; but in the second section, ’Varsity
crumpled badly. Newtown scored seven tries (three
converted) against one try, a field and a penalty
goal by University—which about represents the differ-
ence in the clubs on the day. Newtown therefore
retain the premiership after a hard season.
* * * *
In the Sydney premiership semi-final (Aus-
tralian rules) on Saturday, East Sydney surprised
Sydney by handing it a defeat —63 points to 51.
The game was an excellent exhibition, and the see-
sawing of the scores provided barrackers with plenty
of reason to stretch their lungs. Y.M.C.A. and East
Sydney will supply the menu for the coming Satur-
day. and if the Good Young Men come out on top,
and also account for Sydney in the challenge round,
the Rawson Cup will get a final resting-place in
their pantry, and a new utensil will be necessary for
future years.
* * * *
The Gardiner Cup is the only Sydney Soccer
trophy whose ownership is disputed. Balmain has
the other two, and has a team in the final for the
Gardiner. In fact, its two teams have to play off to
see which shall meet Powerful, last year’s winners.
Yarraside football enthusiasts crowded
into the little East Melbourne ground on Saturday,
to witness the collision of the two leading League
teams—Essendon and South. Nothing depended on
the result; not even the positions of the “final four”
could be altered. Yet everyone anticipated a strenu-
ous, exciting struggle, and got it. The “marking”
of the two sides was about equal; but the ’Dons were
swifter, cleaner and more systematic, and by lemon-
time they had 62 points to South’s 38. In" the last
term, however, Skinner’s Hirelings, by sheer bogging -
in, added 20 more points, while ’Don’s put on only
one point. So the end was: South 58 to Don 63.
On Saturday’s showing—though, of course, nothing
in football is certain —’Wood should beat South, and
Carlton should do the same for the ’Dons. The other
games were mere practice matches, ’Wood downing
Saints by 101 to 44 ; ’Roy outing Richmond by 57
to 34 ; Carlton upending Melbourne by 62 to 54, and
Geelong dittoing the Students by 107 to 46.
These same Students, by the way, are occasioning
the League much thought. They battled heftily
during their first three seasons; but in this, the
fourth, they have taken little interest in the busi-
ness, and have won but a single lonely game—against
St. lvilda. They have no ground of their own ; and,
on top of this, they have but a meagre following
of “supporters.” Unless the brilliance of their play
can draw the great unattached public—which belongs
to no club, but pays to see the best ’ball —they are
no good to the League. The “gates” in some of their
matches this season haven’t paid the wages of the
attendants (against St. lvilda, f’rinstance, they were
£lO, and against Melbourne £l2 155.) ; but (and
this is where the shoe pinches the League) they
divide the semi-final and final “gates”—worth some
£5OOO or £6OO0 —with the other nine clubs.
Years agone, when they belonged to the Metropolitan
Ass., they overshadowed all competitors; but their
junior team, which now battles in that organisation,
is almost at the bottom of the list, and lately
they couldn’t raise a side to play Caulfield. So the
League will probably pass them a strong hint to do
something vigorous or retire.
* * * *
The only Ass. disturbance was the semi-final
between North and Brunswick on the North Melbourne
sand pit. (The Ass., by the way, has got in early
by applying to the M.C.C. for the big Metropolitan
ground for its finals in 1912, which application the
incoming M.C.C. committee will no doubt presently
find some means of shelving.) This game was spoilt
as a spectacle of over-anxiety on both sides, so that
at lemon-time the scores were: ’Wick 14 points,
North 16. North continued flabbergasted to the end,
but in the last quarter ’Wick recovered its nerve,
piled up another 26 points, and, with a total of 40
to North’s 25, ran into the final. These two clubs
battled out the premiership last year, when North
won, with the aid of five purchased Carlton stars.
Though most of these are still in the team, North’s
dash is done, and it is financially on the rocks, so,
apparently, the purchase of stars is a bad business.
* * * *
During the week the law upheld the appeal
of Carlton ’bailer Gotz, who was fined a “tenner” away
back in May for jobbing Trood, of ’Varsity, the evi-
dence being contradictory. The Law likewise acquitted
Martin, of Essendon, of all evil intent in punching
Holden, of ’Roy, in July, so he saves a “fiver” by
the appeal. Meanwhile the League, which has up
to now postponed dealing with Gotz’s case, has fired
Martin out for the rest of the season, and last week
suspended Holden till October, 1912, for jobbing an
Essendon man the Satuiday before. The tears and
triumphs of these ’bailers are of no great moment
to ordinary citizens, but some persons set great
store by them, like the St. Kilda man, who, when
asked his excuse for uproarious and insulting be-
havior on a recent Sunday evening, told the P.M.
he “had belonged to a football club for three years,
and that they were premiers.” Even then he was
fined 40s.
After duly anointing all creditors, the Aus-
tralian Rulers’ recent football kick-up at Adelaide
(S.A.) yielded a profit of £7O to each of the
States that lent a toe. The S. Aus. League did the
thing well, and the visiting brethren are saying their
thanks in fervent letters.
* * * *
Something like a record football match
was played at Knox Park, on the Tweed (N.S.W.),
the other day. In the first 40 minutes one crowd
(Blues) scored 77 points to the other’s nil; and as
the others (Wanderers) were already utterly ex-
hausted, the umpire stopped the play. A few weeks
previously the t’irates had scored 83 to the same
crowd’s nil. The Wanderers came from a Murwill-
umbah cow-centre; and the fact that the team was
exhausted at half-time seems to suggest that cow-
slavery is getting in its deadly work on the young
Australian.
* * * *
Stevenson turned the tables on Lindrum
in his second match, and, when the game was
ended, the scores stood —Stevenson, 18,000 ; Lin-
drum (ree. 4000), 13,702. The English champion
was at his best throughout, but the youngster was
not in his usual form at any part of the game.
Stevenson leaves for England on the 16th inst. ;
Lindrum, who has now taken on A. S. Williams
in Melbourne, follows a week later.
Hardwick, the N.S.W. swimmer, has been
having a mixed time in Europe. At Gladback he
met Oscar Schiele in a 400 metres race, and was
beaten; but at Leipzig he defeated the same Schiele
in a 300 metres race, accomplishing the distance
(with a standing start in the water) in 4min. 9sec.,
which beat Beaurepaire’s record by 2sec. and the
German record by 3sec. By all accounts, however,
he is finding things pretty dull.*
Warner’s English XI will open their
shoulders at Adelaide Oval on November 10, with
the customary match against S. Aus. The Board of
Control hasn’t thus far fixed up the balance of the
job of sandwiching the “picnics” between the
“tests” and State matches; but it is certain that
the coming band will not have to tackle the heavy
programme which knocked the stuffing out of pre-
vious teams. A request from Maoriland for an ex-
tension of the tour has been refused by the Board of
Control, and the English team will, therefore, roam
through Australia only.
South Aus. loses W. .J. Whitty during the
coming season, and N.S.W. will again have the cham-
pion Australian trundler. Whitty’s inclusion is
likely to make N.S.W. exceptionally hard to beat in
this season’s cricket.
Last cricket year there was trouble over
the selection of Ma’s inter-State team, and the local
Cricket Ass. has already grappled with the problem
for the coming season. The proposed solution will
also include the settlement of the captaincy diffi-
culty. Although the trouble was nominally on
matters of principle, it really centred round Trumper,
who showed a disposition to assume the rBle of
cricket I AM vacated by Noble. Trumper reckoned
that he was Ma’s captain by right of succession or
Divine authority, or something, and should be con-
sulted by the Ass. as to the selection and manage-
ment of the team. The Ass. had a bone to pick with
Victor, and would not bow the knee to him. The
difficulty is to be solved by nominating two selectors,
who are to choose a captain, and the three will then
pick the team. The two selectors will, of course,
choose Trumper ; but then the Ass. won’t have chosen
him. It recalls the time when Britain was a Com-
monwealth. Parliament wouldn’t give Cromwell’s
son right of succession, but it allowed Pa Cromwell
to choose his successor.
A petrol-consumption test, held in Sydney
recently, shows that a big advance has been made
lately in the manufacture of this liquid combustible
and the appliances for utilising it. The winner
drove a four-cylinder 16-h.p. car 16 miles 960vds.
on half a gallon of the goods, equal to over 33 miles
per gallon. The weight of the car with passengers
was 29cwt. The furthest distance recorded was by
a 7-8-h.p. twin-cylinder car (weight 15icwt.),
which covered 18 miles 1573yds. on half a gallon,
equal to nearly 3*B miles per gallon.
An Italian co. is placing a new motor on
the market, with a variable stroke, actuated from
the steering wheel, the same as the throttle lever,
and by which the stroke of the pistons can be
shortened or lengthened, thus affecting the volume
of explosive mixture and the speed of the engine.
The chief advantage claimed is flexibility; for, as
with a steam engine, the power can be increased at
will, thus doing away with all gear changing, the only
gear needed being a reverse. The change speed-bos
is an expensive part of a car, and its elimination
would be a great advance towards the cheap and
perfect machine.
Entries for the Warrnambool-Melbourne
cycle road race close with the Dunlop Co. on Oc-
tober 14. Last year there were 525 entrants and 355
starters, and this year there promises to be still
more.
Dunlop individual road championship—
the tallest honor of the N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union—
was wheeled off on the Ilomebush (Sydney) roadway
on Saturday, when 17 people raised clouds of dust
and pushed the rest of the traffic on to the footpath.
A strong westerly punctured most of the riders, and
only six saw the journey through. The rush to the
tape provided an excellent finish., and S. Edworthv,
in a slashing sprint, won by half a length from D.
Kirk (who also ran second last year), with C. M.
Cutcliffe (last year’s champion) a few inches away,
third. Time, lhr. 47min. 31sec., which, although
smin. slower than the record, was a good effort
under adverse conditions.
The old Victorian League of Wheelmen
has swallowed the unregistered Victorian Cyclists’
Union, which has been a spike on the track for 15
months, and the title will be changed to the Vic-
torian Cyclists’ Club. Trouble may, however, arise
when the other States are asked to confirm the
brotherly attitude of the cyclists down south with
regard to the registration of disqualified riders.
On Brighton Beach, N’Yark, on Satur-
day, Burman, a Yankee driver, smashed the two-
miles world’s motor record. His time was lmin.
37.875ec5., which is about 74 miles per hour.
* * * *
Definite word comes from Anthony F.
Wilding that Australasia will have to battle without
the smashing Maorilander in the coming Davis Cup
tennis struggle. Brookes will, therefore, have to find
another mate.
Irrespective of side-wagers, bets and other
diseases, the contestants in the recent 440yds. cham-
pionship at Sydney were compensated with a share
in the gate by the N.S.W. Rugby League. Yankee
C. E. Holway thus received £74 ss. lid., while
Maorilander W. F. Trembath gathered £49 10s. Bd.
The effort by the ladies on the same day was re-
warded with open orders for £7 and £3. There
seems to be still a little boodle in footracing when
conducted with safe management.
Died at Melbourne, last week, Walter
Bullock, an early bird who supplied the sauce for
the horsey-man’s breakfast, by contributing the
“work” for many Victorian papers. Bullock had
only a short illness ; lockjaw followed the mutilation
of a foot.
N.S.W. amateur champion golfer, O. H.
O’Brien, migrated to North Queensland last week,
and gathered in the championship of that section.
Tippet took 12 strokes more over the trouble, with
Bettington (N.S.W.) third, and R. J. Pope (who
gathered in the title last year) fourth. It was a
long trio to pick up a small bauble ; but possibly it
had a lump of glory sticking to it somewhere or
other. And, anyway, they are good fellows to meet,
those Northerners. t
The remaining Sydney baseball match to
be played is Leichhardt v. Paddington, and, provided
Leichhardt gathers it in, the premiership falls on
that doorstep ; if not, a final match with Lane Cove
will be necessary.
Sydney lacrosse premiership finals on Sat-
urday were productive of good matches. Petersham
defeated Stanmore in a dust-up, which called for
many “cautions” from referee Robards; and Sydney
just accounted for Mosman by 10 goals to 8. The
recent invasion of inter-Staters seems to have put
vim into the game, and the final match between
Sydney and Petersham should produce a fine tussle.
Botany harriers won the N.S.W. 10-mile
amateur teams championship at Victoria Park on
Saturday. The struggle for the individual title
wi jn a surprise win for R. J. Fitzsimmons
(South Sydney),
'** * *
“Mashtun” : Quietly entering the Common-
wealth, in the guise of immigrants, are numbers of
peds. ..of proven pace, who will come to light in rich
Sheffields and sprint events in due course. Watch
the entry list for the next Stawell Easter Gift, and
you’ll probably find a good sprinkle of “imported
nominations. A Scotch batch which struck West-
ralia recently, included one Dave Lawrance, the
runner-up in the rich Powderhall (annual) Sheffield
at Edinburgh three seasons ago. And there are
others.
SICK HEADACHE.
WOMEN SUBJECT TO FREQUENT
THROBBING, BURSTING HEADS.
There’s many a cause. Men are not often
troubled by headaches; when they are, it is
generally due to Biliousness or Indigestion.
But women have headaches which seem
peculiar to their sex, frequent throbbing
headaches. Does it not seem that such head-
aches peculiar to women must be at once
related to womanly disease'? Women who
suffer with diseases peculiar to the sex do
not realise the drain of vital strength and
nerve force they undergo as a consequence
of disease. It is this that causes the head-
aches of sick women. In other cases these
pains and disagreeable feelings are generally
symptoms of some other complaint, such as
Indigestion, Biliousness, and Constipation,
all of which are caused by corrupt, noxious
matter clogging the circulations; hence a
stream or rush of blood to the head, and by
the excitement a great pressure on the
brain. “I was,” writes Mrs. Sarah Ourzon,
of 26 Broughton Street, North Sydney, at
one time subject _to severe Headaches and
Neuralgic pains in the head, which would
cause much distraction, nearly driving me
mad, the shooting and throbbing across the
temples being very distressing, and I seemed
to be completely run down and nervously
prostrated. I could scarcely do any work,
and tried many remedies ; but could not hnd
any to give me the relief that I have re-
ceived on taking your valuable remedy, Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I rarely ever
suffer now, but if indisposed at any time, 1
take a few of these pills, and they not only
ward off the attack, but make me feel quite
well. I think they are splendid, and am
pleased to be able to give you a small testi-
mony as to their healing qualities, whicii
you may use if you so desire.”


THE “CONFOMAT”
(Regd.) a Boon to Australians.
THIS Hat provides the acme of Comfort
and Luxury in headgear. Is unlike
the ordinary stiff felt hat. It con-
forms—as its name implies—to the wearer’s
head.
If you wear a “Confomat,” your head will
fit the hat —rather than the hat your head.
The head, of itself, makes the shape of the
Hat. Nothing could be more delightful, easy
and comfortable. Headaches impossible.
Handmade by special process from choicest
materials. Exceptionally light and durable.
Fast-dved. In all the latest shapes and styles.
Guaranteed to give complete satisfaction.
Price, 13/6 at all leading Stores throughout
Australia. The name “Confomat” is regis-
tered, and infringements will be dealt with
according to law.
If unobtainable in your district, write
direct to
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
ĥ
You get more Fuel Miles
out of
SHELL'
than out of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
HESS°PH°NE
THE
Natural Talking
Machines.
From £3 to £27/10/-
favorlte nvs
RECORDS
5 J- 5/" eac^-
Needles 9d„ 1/-, 1/5,1/6 per box.
PATHE ATTACHMENTS.
Sound Boxes ... 17/6 each
Sapphires ... 2/6 „
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Write to us or our Agents—
J. HESS & CO.,
199 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
IT FILLS ITSELF
ħ
If you use an Onoto
Pen, there’ll be no
filler to break or lose
became the Onoto fills
itself in a hash. It
cannot leak. Suits
every hand and ereiy
style of writing. It is
perfection and It is
British made. Get one
to-day and use It.
It costs 12/- and up-
wards at all stationers,
jewellers and stores.
Booklet abou l it free
from the makers,
THOS D* La Rub & Co.. Ltd , 381 Bunhill Row,
London, R.C., or the Australasian Representa-
tive, Xorman Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney,
Onoto
lelf-Filling- «
Safely fountain
Pen
Important. For those who require a larger
pen with a very flexible nib, a special model-
the new lx—has been put on the market. It is
exceptional value for the money. Try this
new Oat your stationer’s. Also ask him for
Onoto Ink, the best for fountain and all
other pens.
IGNITION TROUBLES ENDED.
The Bosch Magneto adds 50 per cent, to your Motor Cycle reliability
and efficiency.
It supplies a good “fat” spark, that never fails to ignite the explosive
mixture at the exact fraction of a second, for which it is timed.
In the recent “Isle of Man Races,” the first 14 machines in the Junior
Tourist Trophy Race, and the first 21 in the Senior Tourist Trophy Race were
fitted with these famous Magnetos. Such wonderful results are the best
recommendation you can have.
We have full stocks. Will you call and let us explain the working of one
of these machines? Our Pitt Street Dep6t is open till 9 p.m. on Fridays.
h
Bennett 8 Barkeli, Ltd.
Agents for Triumph, Rudge-Whitworth Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers of B. & B. Motor Cycles,
234 PITT ST , and 130-2 CASTIEBEACH ST., SYDNEY.
*WE MEAN YOU!
We want YOU to learn the superior qualities of Rigney
Shoes, because we realise that once you know of their
goodness—their perfect-fitting qualities, smart shapes,
excellent finish, and great serviceability, you will be-
come a regular customer of ours.
The Shoe Illustrated is a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, Circular Vamp, Back Counter, Calf Kid Leg,
Patent Lace Face Perforations; Walking or Dress
Wear.
Price 255,
Postage
9d. extra.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE ST., and
179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR NEW CATALOG.
sBB
fiil
Pv.vSyi'o l -
-
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. F. C. Rigney,
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
00 (doubl.e‘o')
Old Orkney Whisky
E? CT CT Colored an d Artistic
■ It CL CL Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 8 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at < d.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our Bs., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. ny continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with vou again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk, ou
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
ĥ
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district, our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
BOND ST., SYDNEY.
126
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
by the
"ROYAL PACKET.”
m
m
Mill
9
as
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for . . .
Java and Singapore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Dobo and Macassar,
by the Magnificent New Steamers
Van Linschoten and Van Waerwyck.
These Steamers are specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins, all situated on the upper deck, and provided with
electric fans and large windows. No port-holes. No inside cabins.
Spacious promenade decks.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Burns, Phllp & Co., Ltd.
FORTY-SIX REGULAR MAIL SERVICES
throughout the Thousand Islands of the Malay Archipelago. Maintained by 64 Modern
Mail Steamers. Total tonnage, 103,900 gross.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
7 SPRING STREET. SYDNEY.
JOHN SANDERSON & CO., Melbourne; BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane;
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide;
EARP BROS. & CO., LTD., Newcastle.
Put some Power
Machines in
the “Smithy”!
THEY will enable you to turn out
more work at less cost, and in
this way increase your profit.
Besides, if you have Power Machines you
can get a lot of work that goes elsewhere.
Let us quote you for machines that give
results — results that will increase
your income. We have Tyre Shrink=
ers, Benders, Punch and Shears,
Coke Crushers, Bench and Post
Drills, Blowers, Forges, Anvils and
Swages. See the prices in our 256-page
Catalogue, illustrating over 2000 tools.
It’s Post Free, too !
Thos. McPherson 8 Son,
“ Modern Machinery,”
582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Make
your
own
Cigarette
\t\r%
twice '
asgoodj
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BYLST awd VmST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. If 1 ? 255“ George 5? Sydney
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
I
m
morris's i
iree Wtches
) CISA«*TTtB
for
HIGHEST GRADE.
K> per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
■end for our Trade Lists.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
fife
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. 'Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
_ A/O/V
, RU STABLE l
CORSET
Gives
STYLE
and
COMFORT


A. SAUNDERS
FOR VALUE VARIETY DUALITY.
25/-
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, jf-plate, full
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance, JJS/. Guaranteed one
year’s free repair.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls
Rubv, and Turquoise, or all
" Pearls, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Circle BROOCH,
set Pearls and Red or
Blue Stones. 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Bracelet PAD-
LOCK, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT, set
Pure White Pearls and
Rubies, Peridots, or Tour-
malines, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold CIRCLE BROOCH,
set Red and Green Stones,
1 «/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cold, Amethyst, and Heart
CHARM, 10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, set Parisian Dia-
monds, 10/
A. SAUNDERS.
9,ct Gold BIRD and SPRAY
BROOCH, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLORAL SPRAY
Pure Pearls, £5.
BROOCH,
A. SAUNDERS.
loot Gold BROOCH, set 11 Diamonds,
1 Pink and Green Tourmaline,
£5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Special Qua-
lity Pure Double-cut Dia-
-monds, £2O-
A. SAUNDERS,
loot Gold SPRAY and BIRD
BROOCH, Pure White Pearls,
£2/15/..
A. SAUNDERS.
Ort Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, Pearls and Amethysts,
00/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9c-t Gold FORGET-ME-NOT BROOCH,
10/0
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-BIRD BROOCH, Pearl-set,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bet Gold FLORAL SPRAY
Fine Pure White, Double-cut
£l7/10/.
BROOCH,
Diamonds,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Double-case Lever WATCH, Full Chro-
nometer Balance, Ruby-jewelled, Patent
Non-magnetic Time Spring, £
A. SAUNDERS.
Sliver HAT
PIN, Strong
Steel Stem,
I/O-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gild
EAR-RINGS, set
Pearls and Tur-
quoise Drop,
25/-
WE
PAY
POSTAGF
ON
ALL
JEWEL-
LERY
ORDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Doable
BUCKLE RING,
17/6-
18ct Gold, Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond SCROLL
-KING, £2O-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £3/5/.
A . SAUNDERS
40/
40/.
A. b..oiVDERS.
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT, set Ame-
thysts and
Pearls, 40/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 5
Pure Doubj,
Diamonds, £ 5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 5
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond, £7/10/
ħ
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, S-stone
Cross-over RING,
set 6 Pure Double
Cut Diamonds,
£ 10-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and BROOCH COMBINA-
TION, set Pearls and Amethysts, Red Stones, or
Green Stones, £2/10/.
WE
SEND
OUR
JEWEL-
LERY
CATA-
LOG
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
JBct. Gold, set
14 Pure Double 1
cut Diamonds and
Choice Black
Opal, £l5-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 4
Diamonds and
lieu or Blue
Stones, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, set
Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones,
12/<i
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray and Drop
NECKLET, set Fine Pure White Pearls,
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
Engraved
TIE-CLIP, 10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Prince of Wales MUFF CHAIN,
Well Made, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Golu DOUBLE ALBERT,
£3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BAMBOO BRACELET. Safety Chain
attached, £3-
f:
ID
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold WRISTLET WATCH, with Lea-
ther Strap, Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Strong, Secure, Elegant, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDEUS.
9ct. Gold set
Red Stone or
Olivine,
10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACELET, set Pure Double-cut Dia
monels and Opals, Rubies, or Sapphires, £l5
A. SAUNDERS.
9rt Gold BUTTERFLY BROOCH,
i earls, Red or Blue Stones,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Coloured Stones, 10/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold SCROLL BROOCH, set
Pearls and Rubies, 15/-
20/
20/-
/
%
N
AjJBAUJSMXKM
tmOß.Qfc E! BTDUSX
A. SAUNDERS.
Cent.’s Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance.
Non-magnetic Time Spring, Dust
Water Proof Cases, 20/- .
Guaranteed 1 Year’s Free Repair.
and
makers
II
X
}
LEADING JEWELLER.
807,809,811,813,815,817,GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sfafion) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
tO WSUL77/to
CoPTICIAN


Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
To do justice to your skill, you should
use good ammunition no less than an
accurate rifle or pistol. The arm is
often blamed when the ammunition is
at fault. To insure your getting cart-
ridges that are uniform in size and
shooting strength, and sure-fire and ac-
curate, ask for Winchester cartridges—
the Red W Brand. These cartridges
are made and loaded in the most com-
plete plant in the world by automatic
machinery and are always just the same.
Sold by Dealers Everywhere
ASK FOR THE
Red Brand
A
n>
I
r%
r &
The EDISON
Phonog'raph
THE TONE that flows from the Edison is the pure,
real, life-like tone of the golden voices that sing
into it. The Edison is the first and greatest of
all sound-reproducing instruments.
Grand Opera, Ballads
and Sacred Songs
Dramatic selections by Sara Bernhardt;
Operatic selections by Slezak, the world's
greatest tenor, Scotti, Carmen Melis, Blanche
Arral, and many other renowned artists;
old ballads or sacred songs, by the most
famous platform singers, right in your own
home whenever you want to hear them —
when you own an Edison Phonograph.
Vaudeville
Harry Lauder, Maurice Farkoa, Billy Wil-
liams, Tom Woottwell, Ada Jones and other
variety stars make records for the Edison —
Amberols —which means you get full mea-
sure, life-size, money’s worth in every item.
Dancing
A Strauss waltz, a Sousa march or two-
step ; and everybody dances. Nobody left
out because somebody must play—the Edi-
son is your orchestra or band. And Am-
berol Records are a full minute longer than
the average dance selections played by a
“real orchestra.”
Home Recording
This is the greatest of all tile great features
of the Edison—it is the only instrument on
which Records can be made at home, which
is more than naif the fun.
You ought to have an Edison Phonograph in your home
—you can have one at any price you wish to pay
from £2 12s. 6d. to £45. Write for complete lists
and address of nearest Edison dealer.
rrjP'
i.i\
r/
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
What is Behind
this Label.
DO you realise that the Com-
monwealth Government’s
word of honor is behind this
label P Do you appreciate the
truth that nothing but the finest,
purest and truest whisky could
earn such a coveted token P
The mere presence of the
Government guarantee label
means that your own Govern-
ment hands you the bottle you
buy with the assurance that the
Commonwealth’s word of honor
as to its Purity, Age, Strength
and Quality goes with it.
Do you think you could be
MORE completely protected in
your choice of a whisky P
Made in sunny free Australia
—of Australia’s choicest pro-
ducts —by happy and able
Australian labor —for shrewd,
discerning and luxury-loving
Australians —and vouched for
by your own Australian
Government.
Obtainable at the Civil Service
Stores, Pitt Street, Sydney.
n
U
A
«i% : v*JSSs
i.tfßCi- r.r
in
ONVV
$
STAN OARDP®
l*\ MALT /<^
HI SKY
e
&STOS
y iSU nn's
nCLBOUDT*fci
/
» fS" 1 yd
HK
-rV>
rn\
merit
mma
The Whisky, you
will agree, is good ;
and that will agree
with you because
it’s good.


Life gained by
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
during teething, when hope
was almost gone. Mrs. H.
Kennedy, 27, Bridge Road,
Glebe, Sydney, N.S.W. (3rd
June, ’10) writes that:
“I gave Scott’s Emulsion to my son,
Herbert, aged 12 months, when he was
so seriously ill that I did not think he
could live. He had a severe cough while
teething, had no appetite, and I was often
up with him. nearly all night. There was
h
a marked improvement
after the first bottle op
Scott’s Emulsion, so I
continued with it, and he be-
gan to eat and sleep well, and
soon he did not look like the
same baby. He put on flesh
rapidly, and is now in com-
plete good health. Scott’s
Emulsion saved his life. ”
Because of its strength and
purity, Scott’s Emulsion
was able to give that in-
stant aid which alone could
help the child. Just because
Scott’s alone can do this,
Scott’s Emulsion is the
only emulsion with a reput-
ation in all parts of the
world for helping children
reduced to death’s door dur-
ing teething. Any emulsion
bought instead of Scott’s
cannot give you the CER-
TAINTY which you get
with Scott’s. Therefore,
don’t ask for “emulsion”—
ask for SCOTT’S EMUL-
SION.
Of ail Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
OF
ANTI N EURASTHIN
'"PIIE only known effective remedy for nervous
J breakdown or exhaustion, will be sent to any
address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt
of: 2d. in stamps to cover postage.
in nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells
must be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in
tie. 1 form of tonics or sedatives, which give tempor-
ary relief, but cannot effect permanent improvement.
Antineurasthin is a
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD.
11 cures by feeding the brain and nerve cells with
th.-ir natural food element, Lecithin, in an active
organic state, and is the only known means of
effectively doing this. Its value is fully demon-
strated by its rapid and permanent effect upon the
nervous system and health generally; sound natural
sleep, improved digestion, power of application to
work, concentration of thought, and sound vigorous
mentality.
Send full address, with twopence in stamps to
cover postage, to the Wholesale Distributor for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, 3 Eden’s
Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane, or branches,
194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9
to 15 Stock Exchange Buildings, Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Auckland.*
3k
Before
HARE’S
COMPOUND
will grow a LUXURIANT
MOUSTACHE, and cover
Bald Patches when all else
fails.
Price, 5/6 Post Free.
After
London Sne c&alities Agency
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
CONFIDENTIAL Letters
REMAIN PRIVATE
when the Zanetic
N.S. C. Copying
hook is used.
•N 5 C / 200
PATtNT ZANETIC
COPYING Book
!&
• - :
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the copy is made as
you write. Letter shown no sign of copying. The
letter is posted and the book locked up. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSO/100, post free for 3/9; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works,
Welford Road, LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
ii A.ND. It’s swag is a Continent.
What Every
Farmer Needs:
UJ!
The “ Aberdeen ” Tarpaulin,
because of its unvarying excellence
—the serviceability ensured by good
material, careful stitching and
strengthening of seams and good
quality in every inch of it —is with-
out doubt the best for practical use.
“ Aberdeen ” Tents and Water Bags are also
solid value.
If unobtainable locally, send for price list.
Smith, Copeland & Co. Ltd.,
204=6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
VICTORIA : J. Bartram & Son,
King: Street, MELBOURNE.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. Whiting,
Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND : H. I. H. Ross,
Edward Street, BRISBANE.
TASMANIA : Seabrook & Neal,
Collins Street, HOBART.
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon ihe
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating: the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
TootH Paste
it highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
?eniB many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLB AOBNT—
C ARNOLD, 6 O'Connell St, Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS
ĥ
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesq u e 1 y photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin —thin people •
look stout. The|
Laughing Camera”
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a .
focus on passingpedes- ’
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro- '
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit- l
nessad. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price l/=,
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
most
vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
ħ
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
V
ill!!!
| I
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/=.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
h
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
novelties obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Address-
Branches
•BOX 3, HAYMARKET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write .for Price Lists, free upon application-
-111 KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
The Famous 10/6 “Corn Cob” Watch f ° f 3/11
WE want every smoker to know how good our “ Corn
Cob ” Tobacco and King of All Cigars are—and
offer this 10/6 Watch for 3/1 1 on the terms follow-
ing. The tobacco is the finest quality you could wish for, and
the cigars are mild and of fine aroma in light and heavy
weights. (Say which you prefer when you order.)
ĥ
ħ
h
CIGARS : 4 for I/- ; Sample Box of io, 2/6 ;50 for 9/6 ; Box of 100, 18/6. All post free.
King of All Buenos, 6d. each ; 3 for I/- ; 50 for 16/6 : 100, 32/6 post free.
TOBACCO: 20z. “ Corn Cob ” packet, cut, light or dark, iod. ; Watch, 3/1X J Postage
Total 5/3 ; Inter-State, 2d. extra. 40Z. “ Corn Cob” Plug, light or dark, 1/4; tie
Cob” Watch, 3/11 ; Postage 6d. ; Total 5/9. ; Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lb. boxes,
20Z. packets, 6/6 ; Inter-State, 3d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6 post free.
6d. ;
Corn
6/.;
CRAIG and AITREN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BfSSST 1
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
inj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
M. (M.L.) : Sorry neither suitable....
C.V.E.: Not a bad idea ; but the verses would have
to be demolished and built again.... Zoe: You make
heavy weather of it....D.D.: There is a breath of
country air in the verse, but the tide gauge says it
is not up to print level. .. .Jack H.: Smoothly done,
but there is nothing new in it. First, everything
goes wrong; then everything goes right....J. Rudd:
Regret unsuitable Cher: Shock not powerful
enough.... Bellerive: We will revisit the old place:
LINES ON AN OLD HOMESTEAD.
While strolling down a quiet street
An old Homestead met my gaze,
Though years had passed I recognised
The Home of my childhood’s Days ;
Where flowers once in beauty bloomed
Wild weeds did meet my gaze;
Dilapidated by neglect and time
Was the Home of my childhood’s Days;
Yet it mirrored the familiar picture
Of happy bygone years,
Stirred the ashes of the past
And dimmed my eye with Tears ;
Wintry nights when the winds did waileth
Like the shrill voice of the foam,
I’d nestle before the ruddy fire
Within the dear old Home.
. ...W.P.T.: Speaker Willis, of the N.S.W. Gasembly,
has done some very valuable spring cleaning in the
disorderly Macquarie-street establishment. So the
Honorable Member will resume his seat, and his
verses will go in the basket. .. .R. 8.: Sorry neither
gets us... .Nelson W. (V.) : Merely echoes —and very
faint ones at that....P. Lonesome: Idea is not big
enough to carry it....W.A.: “Fate” entombed....
Everard (S-A.) : Refuse to bite at fish poem....
Unknown: Unsuitable. .. .Arhus: The maid of the
beer-pump once more: —
THE DISMISSED BARMAID.
The barmaid took a glass and smiled
And then put on her cuffs,
And looking round the bar she said:
“I’m leaving all you toughs.
I’m going now ; I won’t come back;
I wouldn’t if I could.”
But she’d got the sack
And couldn’t if she would.
Homo: Gallant, but unsuccessful attempt
B-D.: Can’t use the wattle verse. Please attach your
name and address to MS. next time and choose another
pen-name. Another writer has first call on the one
you have picked.... Grafter (M.L.) : Too rugged...
Adelaide P.: Both have grace, but they don’t score.
Blue Duk: Just 50....V01t: Hush! Maybe he thinks
he is one of the Great Powers. Let him dream on.
You should not disillusionise the dreamer if his
dream is pleasant and harmless.... Ralph A.S.: If
that is a fragment, then the Pyramids are atoms;
also the camel may scoot, without further delay,
through the eye of the needle, and not so much as
brush his hump against the high, vaulted roof.. . .
Inchiquin: Good attempt... .E.M.C.: Sorrowfully de-
clined.... Doubleyou (V.): One of the old stock
ideas. All we can say is that you have not ill-
treated it....E.A. (Q.) : Sorry no use to u 5....
Surrey (V.) : You might have cured it in half the
words... .G.L.M. (S.A.) : Verse the work of an in-
experienced writer. No value to us W.S. (Syd-
ney): Sorry neither of these suitable. .. .H.G.: De-
fence poem jolts heavily, and says nothing new....
L. J.V.: N 0... .Bedrock: Par. is credited to y0u....
P. K. Tramp: Paragraphs that are accepted are
printed, and that is the only notification that is pos-
sible. If silence follows, the basket holds the secret.
....Kaneira: Yes, but what became of that bill?..
Bear Up: We don’t recommend him. .. .John Cheke:
Room for a new poet and prophet:—
Church Militant and Triumphant in grand Moran
blended
With the fight that never will be ended.
As a little lad, Uncle Cullen took him on his knee
And asked the fond mother, “What is he to be?”
Says she, “Like you, he’ll climb to the Red Hat,
And prove himself the foremost Pat.”
For this he had to leave beloved home
And go at twelve years old to Rome.
A quarter of a century he remained
And much Ecclesiology he gained.
Then Kilkenny claimed him as a prelate
Further on, superfluous to relate;
And if you a prophet are
Say, the Cardinal’s hat will go to Carr.
....S.P.L. (and 27 or so others): All right; the
Australian flag is put in its proper place at some
schools, in spite of what The Bulletin said the
other day. The question, however, is, What is its
right place? “Rathmines” (and 14 others) yell
that it isn’t in its right place on Empire Day, what-
ever it may be on the common or garden variety of
occasions. So this paper cuts off the hopeless contro-
versy. .. .E. J. Fitz: Sydney pays 3s. 9d. per thou-
sand, feet (private monopoly price) ; Bathurst 2s. 6d.
per thousand feet (municipal price) ... .John V. F.:
Th» Colonel is not worth your heavy artillery.
Politically he is a mere Boy Scout...H. D. McPhee:
Eighteen months or so ago, when you wrote com-
menting on a Bulletin article, we asked whether
the joke was on you for being too stupid to under-
stand, or on us for being too obscure to be under-
stood. Considering that your letter in reply has
just turned up, after being 16 months on the road,
the joke is now on both of us... .W.R.W.: (1) The
fact that Australia, under the voluntary army system,
sent some foolish volunteers to South Africa and the
Soudan is the silliest argument against universal
military training that has turned up this week. ;2)
Supposing “the future army is ordered to put down
those who are striking against an enemy far more
dangerous than the Chow, the Jap or the nigger”—
well, the army is much less likely to shoot in a bad
cause if it is a citizen force than if it is a hired or
mercenary force like Britain’s, and like the one
which Australia has had up to date. (3) How do
you know that the enemy you speak of is “far more
dangerous?” Did you ever see a country that had
been trodden on by the Asiatic ? If you had you
might not talk through your hat so gaily. (4) Why-
all this irrelevance about “conscription”? Nobody
proposes conscription. (5) Your argument, put
short, is that the people can’t trust themselves with
arms for their own defence, lest they should order
the Parliament (which is themselves) to command
them to shoot each other or to fire on inoffensive
strangers. And you back up your theory with tales
of despotically ruled countries where the people have
no voice in the matter. What right have you to
assume that the Australians are the utter fools or
complete blackguards that you imply? (6) The
White Australia policy is a direct challenge to the
adjacent Asiatic States, and there is every probabil-
ity that they will take up the challenge as soon as
they see an opportunity. There are just two classes
in Australia now —the pro-niggers and the advocates
of compulsory military service.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
B. F. Adelaide: Same idea has been used too
often ; and the drawing is scratchy and hopeless.
Labor member Senior (S.A.) has thumped
a pulpit cushion for over 30 years as a
Methody lay brother. Before that he was a
full-fledged parson. In the Assembly he can
make great play with a book. He balances
it deftly in one hand, while he whacks it with
the other to emphasise his quotations. He
pierces a poor Opposition victim with his
eye as he metaphorically hurls a chunk from
a forgotten Hansakd at his head. He is
“rocky” in the matter of aspirates, and the
other day, with great deliberation, demanded
to know, “’ow the Hopposition can marvel
when the Labor party ’urls liobjurgations at
hour hawful Hupper ’Ouse, which ’as hun-
done so much huseful legislation.” The
sentiment was all right, anyhow.


The Elite
Eau de Cologne
w&A&Srs
>l/0
i/iii
m
-'m
erf cm'£
WIWT'
nißmiinmnainDiHiuntiniaion
’ *i»
an
FIDELITAS
> r '
* i wv n \ k '*”•
7
aiW
JV/;
"If JPMW W ’
iy ir.
w
»A*|p
=^27o
F.Wolff&Sohn
-Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modern Science
Urn,..inable Horn all leading establishments
David Braham 8 Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.
RIAR
Icantl PIPES
ALL SHAPES
I/- EACH POST FREE IAI
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS A: TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADEUST
B
BEAT
pr. LECER ERSON,
formerly Hon. Physician Auckland and Broken Hill
General Hospitals.
Also to Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind.
157 Collins St. (Zerco’s Chambers),
Telephone, City 2375. Melbourne.
Specialty 606.
Consultation bv letter, £1 Is.
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
/ A safe and simple remedy for'
Bronchitis, Cafarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, irritations, ulcer-
atlons of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tlio nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Etmi Chemical Co.
Cbdnnati, Ohio.
U.S.A.
Smoßers!
ORDER
BY
MAIL.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” cigars. —A fragrant smoke — 3d. each ; 5 for 1/= ; 18/6 per 1 00.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco^— 40Z. tins, 2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/= ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this —it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI ” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
-FOR THE SKIN.
We are in for a HOT SUMMER —this means that Ladies will find it increasingly difficult to
preserve that beautifully velvet skin which is one of their chief charms. The difficulty disap-
pears “like snow before the sun ” if ladies will only prepare their skin by consistently using
ICILMA FLUOR
CREAM,
the world-famed face cream without grease, which brings the beauty that lasts. A little
rubbed on the skin daily ..especially before going out, prevents the ravages of the Australian
Climate, leaves no trace on the skin, and never grows hair.
2|=
per pot, or
Sample tube
3d. stamps.
ALL CHEMISTS, or
ICILMA DEPOT, i* yorkltbeet. SYDNEY.
ĥ
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Harness d Boot Mending Made Easy.
The MARVEL LEATHER STITCHER
ħ
Enables anyone to do
LOCK STITCHING and
CHAIN STIICHING
Equal to Machine Work
DOUBLE-THREAD
HAND STITCHING
The Good Old
Cobbler’s Way.
Takes up to
Nine-Cord Waxed
Thread, or even
Brass or Copper Wire
Complete for Is. 6d.
or with Special
Awl for Collar
Work 25.6 d., posted
to any address.
*pHE MAUYKTj, STTTCHER, is a patented invention that
A simplifies the sewing of leather, rubber, canvas and
similar heavy material*. The engraving shows three
ways in which it is valuable to farmers and horse
owners. You can repair a horse oollar with it better than
most saddlers. The Stitcher will sew a rip under the harass
with heavy nine-cord waxed thread or with wire,and fnake a
secure job with a perfect lock-stitch, or with a ohain-stitch as
firm as rivets. You can . sew on a strap, taking the stitches
right through the collar, and you can, in a couple of minutes,
form a hollow to ease a sore shoulder. A patch or covering
piece can he stitched on in any position ; in fact, a oollar can
be completely re-covered by anyone. The operation is so
simple that FAILDRB 18 IMPOSBI BI.H. The Stitcher is
equally useful for boot, saddle and harness repairs. Rivets
are good as a make-shift, but they are no use for collars, and
stitching is preferable for most mends. The Marvel makes
double-thread hand-sewing, the real tradesman's stitch, so
epsy that, anyone can re-sole a welted boot, repair a burst
upper, or mend a rip in a saddle or harness, with light or
heavy thread, or with brass or copper wire. Full printed
directions are supplied, and each Marvel Stitcher is sent out
threaded up ready for use, With ft good serviceable awl. The
price is only 1/6, including postage to any address. For collar
sewing a special awl is needed, that makes the price of the
complete outfit 2/6. Fine work, like boot uppers, can be sewn
with a stout Stitcher, hut a neater job is made with a light
Stitcher. If you order both fine and stout Stitches you may
have the two for 2/6. or with the Special Collar Awl for 3/6,
carriage paid. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO.,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
p
<S&
I
/%r
n
■ lilt)' ,
, >n *
!r
M
0
Tyres in the Making.
No. 4. Mixing the Ingredients in the right proportions is essential
if the Tyre is to possess the vital qualities of “ Resilience ” and
“ Durability.”
Too much of this substance or too little of that often gives a result
very different from that expected. Hence it behoves the manufacturer
to pay particular attention to this part of the process. i 6
STOCKISTS:
All the Leading' Agents


BABY’S FACE LIKE
PIECE OFM BEEF
Smothered with Bad Pimples. Aw-
ful to Look At. Scratched and
Cried Terribly. Feared He Would
Always be Disfigured. Cuticura
Remedies Quite Cured Him.
“ My baby boy. twelve months ago, had a
large pimple come on his forehead. It burst
cf
and spread all over his
face which soon looked
like a piece of raw beef,
all smothered with bad
pimples. It was awful to
look at. The poor little
thing used to scratch it
\and cry terribly. I took
Ihim to a doctor but he
! only got worse until I
was quite frightened that
he would always be dis-
figured. Then I sent for
some Cuticura Ointment
and after using it I found
that baby no longer
scratched his face. So I
got in all two large tins
of Cuticura Ointment,
together with Cuticura
Soap, and in two months
the Cuticura Remedies had quite cured him.
Now I always keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment by me in case of anything else coming,
and of course I use Cuticura Soap for all my
children.
“About fourteen years ago I had something
like heat spots all over my arms and shoul-
ders. I scratched and rubbed them so much
that they bled and then I was covered with
little sores. A friend gave me a tin of Cuti-
cu a Ointment, and before I had used it up
my skin was completely clear, and I was
cured. I had had the trouble for nine months
and had tried everything to get rid of it. I
tell all m." friends ».bout my baby’s cure,
indeed they ask what I used for the little
boy’s face, for they all saw how bad it was
before the Cuticura Remedies cured it.”
(Signed) Mrs. E. Perry, 99, Waterloo Ru„
Aldershot, Hants., England, May 21, 1910.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout
the world. Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W., for free Cuticura book on skin
diseases and liberal trial tin of Cuticura
Ointment. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., solf
props.. Boston, U. S. A.
f-
f/
r\ (fO
, «
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
Price, 12/6 Posted, 131'
JUST OUT.
DROVERS’ GUIDE
By P. R. GORDON,
Late Chief Inspector of Stock ana Brands, Queensland
Containing the latest Stock Route Maps of New South
Wales and Queensland, the new Queensland Maps
containing Stock Routes, Tanks and Dams, Main Roads,
Border Crossing Places, Bores, Trucking Yards, etc.
WATSON, PERGUSON & Co. Ltd. BRISBANE
52
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
AllcocK!s
Plasters
World's Greatest
External Remedy.
sr
/
Pains in the Baek
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
For over 60 years it has been the standard remedy for
all aches and pains. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill Puie; y vegetable.
take a BrandretKs Pill CEst - 17520
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
CO.LTD.
kdbbbr
231 Clarence Street. Sydney, ; AND ALL STATES
9Y SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
TO HIS EXCELLENCY
THE GOVERNOR <BERALj
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 * Grand Prize St Louis 1904
KALODERMAE
B PREPARATIONS
F.WOLFF t SOHlUtarlsmhe and London
Knlotfermn Jelly
prepared with glycerine % honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; Is most
agreeable # efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knlodermn Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening# improvingthe skin.
Knlodermn Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Jc/'
Kaloderma Shaving Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the market,
fl refined luxury at a popular price. jcT Jc/' JcT JST
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
*
Food
FOR INFANTS , INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible particles. “The Lancet” describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Qjenger's Food is sold in lins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
KM
The Inky Way.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : The first action for libel
against a Melbourne newspaper was tried in 1843.
The libel arose out of the heat of a municipal elec-
tion. It was a violently scurrilous article in the
Herald, denouncing the candidature of Anthony
Hordern for a seat in the Town Council on personal
grounds. The newspaper soon found out that it had
made a great mistake and had committed an act of
the grossest injustice. A most unqualified apology was
tendered, and all the available copies of the paper
containing the libel were destroyed. A warrant had,
however, been taken out against Mr. Clarke, the
registered printer and publisher of the Herald. He
was committed by the Police Court for trial, but
upon Mr. George Cavanagh, the proprietor, offering
to change places, Clarke was released and Cavanagh
bound over to answer the charge at the criminal
sessions. Mr. Stawell (afterwards Chief Justice)
appeared for the prosecution, and Mr. E. E. Williams
(afterwards a Judge of the Supreme Court, and
father of retired Justice Hartley Williams) was for
Cavanagh, who pleaded guilty, and was admitted to
bail, self in £200 and two sureties in £100 each,
to come up for judgment when called upon. Cav-
anagh had been misled by “swarms of rumors”
during the heat of the elections. In December he
appeared to receive sentence. Stawell prayed judg-
ment. Williams read affidavits, in which respectable
witnesses averred that they had heard and believed
the reports. Thomas Jennings expressed the belief
that the story originated with a meddlesome, mis-
chief-making attorney named Carrington. Jeffcott,
the Judge, took time to consider, and then sentenced
Cavanagh to pay a £60 fine and do three months’
imprisonment. Hordern at once asked that the im-
prisonment part should be cancelled, and this being
agreed to, Cavanagh walked out free.
* * * *
EPITAPH.
(For The Bulletin.]
Bombala, Wednesday.—-The Bombala Herald,
about the oldest newsnaper in Southern Monaro, was
published for the last time on Tuesday, after run-
ning 45 years as a Freetrade and Liberal organ.
The award of the Country Printers’ Wages Board is
given as the reason for winding up.— Doleful news
item.
Here lies the Herald beneath the sward.
Figures and facts it long defied ;
But at the sight of the Printers’ Board
And decent wages, it sank and died.
Weep Freetraders and Liberals gnash!
Order the mourning from far Peru!
The Myth explodes when the terms are cash.
Time has dishonored our I O U.
N.s.w. CLAUDE CRAPE.
“Scribe”: The London Tavern, next to the old
Age office in Elizabeth-street (Melb.), has just been
knocked down. It almost died of grief when the Age
went to Collins-street. In those days it kept Wolf
Isaacs, who seemed to be almost on the staff. Reporters,
of those liquidacious times, saw that the pump was
well oiled. But not the comps. ; they must walk
about a mile, to gather at Charley Benson’s pub,
corner of Bourke and Russell streets. But what has
the Press come to? Reporters of the Argus, Age
and Herald went lately to view a new brewery.
After copious note-taking the boss said, “Now, now
for the XXXX.” All were teetotal! “Then is
Doomsday near ! ” sighed the brewer.
* * * *
Guy Innes, sub-editor of the Melbourne Argus,
having become news editor of the Melbourne Herald,
vice Jack Nish, deceased, a shuffle of portfolios has
taken place in the conservative office. Harry Mad-
dison becomes sub-editor, with R. W. Jones as his
chief accomplice; and A. L. Brient, of a well-known
family of inky wayfarers, becomes cable editor, vice
Maddison.
“Joe”: Women are pushing into the professions
all right. I went up thiee flights of stairs to interview
the editor of a stock and farm paper, t’other day,
about an article I wanted published. The girl who was
in charge of the editorial department pushed back
her tousled hair with an inky fist, and inquired my
business. I explained as briefly as possible. She
fixed me up in a jiffy, remarking that the editor
was out. “Haven’t you got a sub-editor or a re-
porter?” I asked. “Oh yes,” she chirruped; “I’m
them! ”
“Adelaide”: Melbourne Booklover makes the
amazing statement that for an Australian writer to
get his living, “there are but two ways open to him—
the life of the freelance, which ends necessarily in
‘longsleevers’ and a handsome memorial, and the
ordinary journalist’s work, than which nothing could
be more corroding to the finer self. If you want a
proof of this statement, look around you!” Well, I
have tried both “ways” mentioned; and I have
known many who have pursued one or the other.
For myself, I have never drunk more than was good
for me, or qualified for a tombstone, or had my
finer self (if any) corroded to any discoverable ex-
tent. Nor have the others —with a few exceptions
in the longsleever direction, and that weakness is
not confined to journalists. The whole statement is,
in fact, a foolish libel on a capable body of good
citizens.
“Locust”: The descriptive writer on the Sydney
daily press is overdoing his new way of beginning an
article. Suppose he is writing about a fire. He
begins with a line (indented one em, and with a
note of admiration) like this: —
“Ding-a-ding-a-ding! ”
Then follows a description of the rush and roar of
the fire engines, the slosh of the water and so on.
A funeral is prefaced with the impressive word:—
“Dong!”
That opens up the question of church bells, their
muffled grandeur, the body on the catafalque, the
awful instability of human greatness, and the pro-
minent public men who attended the funeral. Or a
political situation begins in this way:—
“Was Mr. Willis duped?”
And we pass along to a consideration of the wicked-
ness of the Labor party; the nobility of Mr. Wade,
V.C. ; the necessity for a dissolution, and the views
of Mr. David Storey. It is reminiscent of the evan-
gel-actor style of the Chapzander people. The best
known instance was the sermon of Spurgeon, of the
Tabernacle, London, beginning—
“Oh, H—11!”
or words to that effect, followed at a long interval
of startled silence, by an explanation that he heard
a man say that just'now; leading up to a disserta-
tion on the evils of loose language and the immin-
ence of ll—l for those who cuss unnecessarily.
OVERTAKEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
George Reid confided to a young Australian in
London: “A man can’t get away from his past.
Mine has followed me round the earth. A York-
shirerrtan asked me at a provincial meeting the
other day: ‘What did Australia send you here for?
Haven’t we got Freetraders of our own to get rid
of?’ And, would you believe it, my only youthful
indiscretion, those Sydney poems, were thrown up at
me in Glasgow?”
The speaker in electric glow
Insanely wagged his arms;
He voiced the nation’s needs, you know,
And spoke of grave alarms,
Because of someone else’s view,
And things the other chaps might do.
He’d reached his highest flight, when, whack,
A missile struck his head ;
He lay upon his good, broad back—
They thought that he was dead.
The weapon was a volume fat
Of verses thin, and poor at that.
In bed he scanned the pages wide,
Then heaved a hollow moan,
And turned him to the wall and died —•
The verses were his own!
The moral’s plain: Though you be fast,
Your sins will catch you up at last.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON


BsHBSSBH
i
m: mmmmmmm
mm g mmM mmmmrn
asm s mmm g i g&sggig s
,
1%
1
f
P
.
■
*S
fcf
•> ;} :
/
'
cs
ax<s
mi
■ ■ ■':
Living' on Koomah Spa
FASTING to secure good health is the newest and most
successful way of making sick people well. Many
remarkable health recoveries have been brought about by
this new system of treatment. In cases where pure natural
water is given to patients the fasting cure has been particu-
larly successful. Here are some interesting extracts from a
patient's diary: —
“Filtered water was the only thing I took for the first week . . .
also KOOMAH SPA water daring the two following weeks."
and again:—
“ Later on pure water became nauseating, and on the 19th I drank
KOOMAH SPA water, which proved valuable in allaying
nausea. This form of liquid was adhered to until the end of the
fast ♦ . . fresh life and vigor were derived from the purification
of the blood brought about by the process/'
Get the habit of drinking KOOMAH SPA (from the Rock
Flat Springs, Cooma, N.S.W.) every day. It will purify the
blood and aid the digestion to such an extent that fasting will
be unnecessary.
KOOMAH SPA
“. {ffltj
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD.. Melbourne and Sydney.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
Tons
Commander.
♦GEELONG ..
NARRUNG ..
WILCANNIA
8000: W. G Simonds
5000 G. A. Millington
500'> W.G. Gingham
| Sails.
.. igept. 23
.. Get. 31
.. I ] )ec. 12
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ons 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private
Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
for 31 years. Repayable by half-yearly instalments.
J. 11. DAVIES', Secretary.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MORTGAGE LOANS FROM 4
TO 5 PER CENT.
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
jjank of llorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital . . . . . . £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sis.
Manager: ,T. I’. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Barns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOYE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking 1 business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) .. £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE —2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Sir William P. Manning, Ivt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. II.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yakwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,494 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland, j
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
Shipping;
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—■
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTEIIMEYER, VAN ROMPAOY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
t New Steamer. b Triple screw. Turbine.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 £IG Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way);
£B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £I2G 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
h
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC. 12,000 Cons, to sail about
September 27.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFUIC and SUEVIC
to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
% YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
QEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
X re
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bri
dge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
h
£2,991,560
£1,969,435
£2,991,560
£7,952,555
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President..
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir No lima rid MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington ’Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 165, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia a, West Australia 11, New Zealand 57, Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua 2!
London 1); and Agentsand Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China',
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,500,000 0 0
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiien, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, lyi.L.G.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N, D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F.. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . . . £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ====i
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial |i)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
■ Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Ihe Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK. BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
'THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP . . .. ..£90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Deben-
tures, Stock, & First Mortgages .-. £41,000 0 0
Directors: R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman; Hon. J. M. Pratt;
J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., 'LL.D. ; Alexander
M'Cracken. JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
The METROPOLITAN
accident, fire
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED
THE COOPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
a. a
Z<3w Points
fi» Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you Whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the. necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply ipay be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ĥ
For First=Class
Results use
Best
ħ
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ay nts for Australia.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Porr.s,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kyarra (7000), Satur-
day, Sept. 30, and Oct.
28. Transhipping at Fre-
mantle to all N.-\Vest
Ports.
BRISBANE
-MAO KAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Innaminoka, Sept. !).
' S.S. .Marion, Sept. 16.
S.S. Grantala, Sept. 23.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, G BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE,
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE.
To 'VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND*
(N.Z.), FIJI, find HONOLULU,
blience by Rail to any part ot‘
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAIL!NOS:
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—-
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.— H.=—s.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “BSSEX,**
11,400 Tons. H. W Robertson, Oommandfer:
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 16th. Sept.
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE ~ 24th. Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships. The
superior third-class accommodation, comprised of two,
four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining-room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Sur-
geon and Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and
(or)Suez routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary & Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: Victoria:
Metropolitan Buildings, 48 Queen St.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane. Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men,
THE
UNITED INSURANCE
UNI I tU co.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,.
CAPITAL - <£500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes o£
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,..
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United ” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
A N Australian’s Two Hands— THE LONE.
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You cant,
do without either, and they both cost the same.


Interest that never
lags; pleasure that
never cloys I
KODAK Photography gives unalloyed enjoyment in every step
from the loading of the camera to the finishing of the prints.
Home studies, pictures of the children among familiar sur-
roundings, scenic titbits, street snapshots, the development of the
films themselves, the finishing of the prints—all in daylight—in each
of these lies the Witchery of Kodakery.
The Kodak Camera is high-grade in appearance, faultless in
construction, efficient in equipment, perfect in use, right in price. It
is equally as satisfactory for the beginner in photography as for
the expert.
'l'here are Brownie Kodaks, from .'5/- to 50/- ; regular Kodaks
range from 26/= upwards. The Kodak Catalogue will be sent free
upon request if you cannot call.
Get a Kodak to-day and start right away in the delightful
pastime of
ROD A R
PRotograp hy
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak Camera is the recognised
best of all folding hand cameras. Takes the full-size postcard picture,
x sj!4m. Provided with every feature for the most serious
work, yet so simple as to be effectively handled by a novice.
Equipment includes double rapid rectilinear lens, Kodak auto-
matic shutter, automatic focussing lock, brilliant reversible finder and
tripod sockets. Price £4/10/- ; Postage extra, 1/3
. ■>: rife
i m
mm
1/
>1 _
Kodak Tai)k PcvdopnKDt.
The Kodak Daylight System of Tank Development ensures absolute uniformity of
results, and a greater percentage of perfect negatives than is possible by darkroom
methods. It saves time by enabling you to develop a roll of film, or a dozen plates
at once. It saves space, as any one of the tank outfits can be stowed handily in a
corner of your bag, ready for instant service on your holiday trips.
The prices of the Kodak Tanks are
Brownie Box, 7/6; Brownie Tank Developer, 14/6 ; Kodak Tank Developer,
£l/7/6 ; sin. Kodak Tank Developer, £l/10/= ; 7in. Kodak Tank Developer, £2/7/6.
The prices of the Eastman Tanks for plates are
sin. x 4in. Eastman Plate Tanks, 15/= (takes also 3X> n - x 4/4^ n - Slze > a^so postcard) ;
7in. x sin. Eastman Plate Tank, £l/2/6 (takes also x size).
Cali in and we will demonstrate the Daylight System of Development to
you free of charge. Explanatory Booklet sent free upon request.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George St., Sydney.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba.
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMGNT CO., LTD., Cinematograph Experts),
“ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78=80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
h
Fiae New Diamoad
and
Platinum Jewellery
at the Treasure House
No. i— Choice Diamond Set Necklet. Set with Finest
Quality White Diamonds in Real Platinum, with Fine
Platinum Trace Pattern Chain. £55.
No. 2 — Exquisite Diamond Set Brooch. Set with
Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum. £45.
No. 3 — Beautiful Diamond Set Necklet. Set with Finest
Quality Brilliant Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum.
£42.
No. 4— Handsome Diamond Set Flexible Bangle. Set
with ii Fine Quality White Diamonds in /Real
Platinum, and 15ct. Gold. £75.
No. 5 —Exquisite Diamond Set Heart Pendant. Set
with Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Isct.
Gold. £3O.
No. 6— Dainty Diamond Set Earrings. Set with 6 Fine
Quality Brilliant Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum and
Isct. Gold. £l7/10/=
No. 7 — Elegant Diamond and Pearl Earrings. Set with
Fine White Diamonds and Whole White Pearls.
£lO/10/=
No. B— A Unique Diamond Set Crossover Ring. Set
with 9 Fine White Diamonds in Real Platinum and
iBct. Gold. £2l.
No. 9— Quaintly Designed Diamond Set Necklet. Set
with Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum, with Fine Trace Pattern Platinum Chain.
£5O.
No. io— Very Effective Diamond Set Ring. Set with
Fine Quality Diamonds in Real Platinum and iBct.
Gold. £lB/10/=
Stewart Dawson
STRAND CORNER, 8 Co. (AuSt.) Ltd.
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


and Coughs
13 Stanley Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs —Eor colds and coughs Angier’s Emulsion is the best remedy
that I have ever tried. lam subject,.to colds on the slightest change in the
we ither, which causes me great annoyance. As a representative of the
Buyers' and Sellers’ Directory of Australia, I am compelled to travel
constantly from one State to another, and it is a great boon to me to have
a remedy such as Angier's Emulsion. One thing I find about it is that,
unlike most emulsions, it does not repeat or make one gel sick which is
greatly in its favour. (Signed) W. E, MASTERS.
ANgier
m
chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4 1C
Aneier's Emulsion is a simple healing tonic that is soothing alike to throat, lungs,
stomach and intestines, an aid to appetite and digestion and an invigorating tonic and
restorative. By its soothing, healing action it relieves the cough, allays soreness and in-
flammation and promotes easy expectoration, while by its tonic P™P erti es it incr^ses
“ A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage; mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO.. Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
ROT. A NT) ELLWOOD TERRY SHUTT
—or TERRY. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of above person, who left
Loughbro’, England. November, 1908, for
Otorohanga, W. T. W., New Zealand, thence
for Sydney, August, 1909, please communi-
cate with
W. A.,
Bulletin, Sydney.
|» AY TANSEY is requested to com-
_lA; municate with
BROTHER L.,
Crosswell, N.Z.
Legal Notices.
IF THOMAS DONALDSON, otherwise
known as Thomas Slade, son of Joseph
Donaldson, late of Otepopo, Otago, New
Zealand, Settler, deceased, will communicate
with THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, WEL-
LINGTON, New Zealand, he will learn of
something to his advantage. Will any per-
son having knowledge of the said Thomas
Donaldson, who left New Zealand in 1878,
kindly communicate with the said Trustee.
Dated at Wellington, this 21st day of
August, 1911.
FRED., FTTCHETT,
The Ptftdic Trustee.
Golfers’
Requirements.
We have everything the
Golfer needs his Clubs,
his Suits, his Boots, every-
thing.
h
And our prices are so much lower
than the other fellow’s that we are
supplying the majority of the players
with all their requirements.
Would you like a copy of our
Sports Catalogue ? No matter what
game you play, you’ll find this book
will make it an inexpensive game.
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big BlocK,
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANALAND
Captain Cloherty, who has been appointed
Harbor Master at Brisbane, has been knock-
ing about Moreton Bay for nearly 30 years,
first as master of the pilot boat and then as
pilot. During the last four years he has
been deputy harbor master and senior pilot.
Passed out, in Mackay Hospital the other
day, Captain John Henry Schluter, one of
the most expert divers of the North. He was
the first to go below and have a look at the
Quetta, after she had sailed to Davy Jones’s
locker and taken her hundred odd passengers
and crew with her.
Although only six months removed from
an inspectorship, and but five years away
from a comfortable pension, Toomey, Bris-
bane’s best-known detective —the only one
of any note —has left the force, in order to
man the beer-pump. He has probably been
inspired by the success of Peter Murphy.
M.L.C., one-time policeman and later pub-
lican, who is now nearly first on Brisbane’s
list of heavy income-tax payers.
Dinny Keogh, of Rosewood, was not a
statesman, but on one critical occasion he
achieved a fame which lasted for a whole
day. It was in December, 1899, when the
Dickson Government was in power. Dickson
brought in a Bill to create a standing rail-
ways committee. The Labor party and the
Independents opposed it, and they were
joined by discontented Ministerialists, headed
by Joey Bell and Janny Leahy. A violent
debate took place, in which every member de-
clared himself but Keogh. Every effort to
induce him to speak on the Bill failed. _ It
was whispered privately that he had promised
Dickson to vote for the measure, and various
dodges were set afoot to smuggle him out of
the building. These failed. At a late hour
the division was taken. When the bells
rang Keogh was not to be seen; but just be-
fore the doors were locked he appeared inside
the bar. He was with a silence
inspired by suspense. Keogh hesitated,
walked down the gangway, and then stood
still, gazing first on one side and then on the
other. Then, after a moment’s wavering, he
sat on the side of the Government. There
was a yell of execration from the Laborites,
and a scream of triumph from the Dickson-
ites. The noise startled Keogh, and for one
moment it seemed that he was going to
change his mind. He raised himself on the
cushions, but sank back immediately. The
division gave Dickson a majority of one. He
resigned, and Andy Dawson reigned in his
stead —for one week.
A Ballad of Puritee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Denham Government is proposing to deal
drastically with the liquor laws, with gambling', with
improper houses, with cattle-stealing, and wickedness
generally. —News item.
It was the State of Digbv D.
That took a fit of Puritee,
And in its fervor did decree
The death of all Iniquitee;
That, first and foremost, Drink should be
Abolished in totalitee ;
And ladies all of life too free
Should mend their manners instantly;
Or else each lax, improper she,
Must leave the land immediatelee,
That naught might soil the sanctitee
Of that sweet State of Digby I).
And wicked wights who will not see
Of sweet two-up the villainy,
The penalties of Law must dree
Like them who venture on the spree.
And they who linger lovingly
Around the spot where bookies be,
Must drop their shameless revelry
And join the cult of Toast and Tea
And spieling gents who prey with glee
On simple you and simple me,
The Law doth sternly now decree
Must drop their thimble and their pea.
And they whose language is too free —
Who fling around the frequent D—,
Who’re never known to bend the knee
(Except to kick a referee),
In one great horde, as we shall snn.
By big John Hops shall gathered be,
And driven fast and furiously
Outside the State of Digby D.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 2, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Fortune-tellers are not mentioned in
Queensland’s new Police Offences Bill, al-
though in Brisbane they do nearly as much
harm as the peroxided barmaids, at whom
the measure obviously shudders. Rumor sup-
plies as a reason for the silence the super-
stitious tendencies of one of the patriarchs
of the Cabinet.
Although Brisbane’s prosperity is a very
real thing for the moment, agents don’t find
it easy to let large private residences. Vari-
ous more or less historic houses have been
empty for many months, and social magnates
cling tenaciously to the seven-roomed villas
of Suburbia. The hauteur of housemaids
is a dreadful thihg to face.
A CONNOISSEUR.
HARASSED PRISONER : “Pray, great chief, why do you keep your servant tiet iup so long? ”
CANNIBAL KING : “ A thousand pardons, dear missionary; but we are waiting for thecon-
signment of paper bags from Sydney
The only Queensland charity named after
Lady Chelmsford is a charity no more. The
Lady Chelmsford Milk Institute, after much
ringing of christening bells and several years
of muddle and mismanagement, was finally
refused a Government endowment, and its
working plant has been sold to. a. milk supply
co. Actually very little free juice was ever
dispensed by the Institute; the bulk of the
daily supply was sold to adult faddists and
hypochondriacs.
By the Zealandia, which touched at Pin-
kenba to-day, came your Premier and Mrs.
McGowen, Mrs. Andrew Fisher and Mrs.
Batchelor; and all was hurry and bustle in
official circles. After telling the press inter-
viewers what a glorious nation old Free-
trade Britan is—as observed from. West-
minster Abbey, the Hotel Cecil and
a railway carriage—Premier McGowen
took the missus for a stroll, while
Wee Macgregor and Denham were ’phoning
frantically for a lost guest, who was wanted
at an official luncheon. That luncheon did
not come on. Mrs. Fisher and Mrs. Batche-
lor were, however, captured early, whirled to
One Tree Hill, fed by Mrs. Denham (who
had the rest of the Cabinet’s better half as
a bodyguard), brought back and escorted
round town per motor-car. Both ladies
are looking exceedingly well, but have little
to say of the trip, beyond that it was “mag-
nificent,” and ti.at the Presentation gowns
were very becoming. Verily, the Presenta-
tion gowns made more impression than the
Suffragette. Mrs. Fisher is among her own
folk here, and was met by an aunt and
cousin from Gympie.
The Mayoress has again been pursuing
hard cash in its accustomed haunts, this
time for the benefit of the Children’s Hospi-
tal; and once more she has shown her quali-
fications to hold a first-class certificate from
the Amalgamated Society of Inveterate Life
Insurance Agents, and the Do-Business-or-
Die Association of Sewing-machine Fiends.
When she opens her collection book to do
business, business has got to be done. Any-
how, the hospital deserves the bloated cheque
which will hit it in the treasury as a result
of the-collection and a young people’s dance.
At the latter* Lady Mac. and the Vision hap-
pened along by design, and smiled vice-regal
approval of the peeresses, poster maidens,
Scotch lassies, colleens and other unoriginal
attempts to make attractive the original
feminine.
Bowlers’ wives have no anxiety as to the
whereabouts of hubby these days, knowing
full well that he is battling on the shorn field
against the determined cannonaders from
Newcastle, and bringing all the tricks of his
deadly art to play in the defence of his jack-
ball. The games have been keen and close,
and, although I don’t know anything about
bowls, except that Drake refused to meet the
Armada till he had had a few, I like to
watch the contortions of the chiefs, or ser-
angs, or skips, or whatever they are. In
honor of the visitors, the Clayfield Club in-
vited not only its friends, but its wife and
mother-in-law, to a euchre and bridge party,
and other city clubs have made the New-
castle men sorry to have to go home.
Another loss to the steadily-dwindling
forlorn hope behind Denham is Dick Cottell,
M.L.A. for Toowong, who met Death in his
sleep, early on Wednesday morning, and went
away with him. Cottell was a follower of
Kidston until that shining statesman retired.
Also, he was the follower and good friend
of all out-door sport, and for some years was
secretary to the Queensland Lawn Tennis
Association. He leaves behind a wife and
three young children.
The redistribution of seats and the death
of two members mean a political shuffle
that will leave somebody in the pack.
Macartney, of the Lands, means to resign
North Brisbane, and again woo Toowong.
He will be opposed by one Lloyd, a foeman
worthy of his best platitudes.
Notwithstanding the fact that Spring
has elbowed the cold to one side, the private
dance continues with the regularity of the
Scotch Sawbath. Dr. and Mrs. Sanford
Jackson, in honor of niece Miss Ruth Jack-
son, of Geelong, gathered in a number of
men and maidens just emerging from their
fiufferdom, and set them chasing the flying
hours with flowing feet. The Jackson lean-
to includes a magnificent ball-room, and sev-
eral miles of verandah overlooking a beauti-
ful garden and the river. A daughter, who
combines looks with brains, assisted her
mother to make everybody wish midnight
would never strike.
Another dance was given by the A. 11.
Websters, at Whinstanes, in honor of
daughter Hilda, a pretty, fair-haired little
girl who has thoroughly enjoyed the delights
of her first season.
The sensation of the hour has been caused
by a pretty Society girl from the South, who
sojourned awhile with the spouse of one of
our future wool-sackers. After dancing one
night or morning till the hour when the
rooster and the milkman hit the dawn simul-
taneously, she breakfasted, wandered forth,
and wedded a small but persistent suitor,
dismissed him and returned home to lunch.
Some days later she apparently recalled
incident, and mentioned the fact of her mar-
riage quite casually. The resultant stir
would have gratified the most hardened
thrower of bombs.
A welcome innovation in the matter of en-
tertaining goes to the credit of Miss
Madge Woolcock, who has affixed the
usual stamp to the usual gilt-edged
card, and bidden the flutters and flap-
pers, both male and female, to a moonlight
garden party. The only thing that worries
the bidden is the correct garment for a moon-
light garden party. What does one wear at
an affair of the sort?
A smart tennis party was given the other
day by Mrs. Arthur Feez and dainty daughter
Myee, the athletic young person who is one
of our most ornamental chauffeurs or chauf-
feuses. Tennis parties are quite the thing.
The Vision gives them at regular intervals,
and on every lawn in Suburbia the habits
of sub-regality are faithfully copied.
The Dorothy Ryder boom is not yet on
the wane, the latest dispenser of _ free tea
in that young lady’s honor being Miss Emily
Beirne, whose own knot-tying to Mr. Tom
Hooper—a pillar of rowing and lacrosse
clubs —is not very far distant.
Yours, affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Dr. Row, medical superintendent of the
lazaret on Peel Island, is satisfied that there
are lots of Bananaland lepers who are never
segregated. All the same, to reward the
State for taking Ah Chow and Tommy Tan-
na to its bosom, there were 85 cases under
treatment at the lazaret last year. Of
these, 25 were whites, 53 discolored (ol
Kanakas, and 14 Binghis), and seven half-
castes.
Treasurer Barnes’s Budget speech was one
long scream of rejoicing about the magnifi-
cent prosperity Queensland has enjoyed dur-
ing the past financial year. Yet, according
to numberless Tory predictions, the past
year, being the first period under the -os.
per capita Commonwealth arrangement,
should have been hung all over with crape
and calamity. As a prophet the Tory is
even more of a failure than he is as a poli-
tician.


l, lr
m
m
m
vm
%
.j>'
f r
£3.
1/7
770
cr-
it*
r
r>^
s
-/ T
r\
£
n
r
r*« •
»
r>
Bom 1820,
still
going
>
'n
strong.
r
c*
Since 1820
D
is
o
‘/‘‘•\'l£ m ‘\ r‘v -.«'S
"**"Tu * 3^J*•v,% *# • •»
has had one steady aim: to deserve
your appreciation.
ĥ
Hence the maintenance, by the distillers of Johnnie Walker, of the largest reserve
stock of pure Malt Scotch Whisky held by any one firm. This vast reserve is perpetu-
ally ageing in bond to assure that unvarying sequence of quality which makes every
bottle of Johnnie Walker the same as every other of the millions of bottles sold the
world over, and makes possible the guarantee: “same quality throughout the world.”
2 2
SQUARE BOTTLES. —Johnnie Walker, Red Label, over 10 years old.
SQUARE BOTTLES.—Johnnie Walker, White Label, over 6 years old.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.
And at SYDNEY and- MELBOURNE.


ħ
GRAND PRIX
PARIS ST LOUIS
1900 1904-
The Celebrated
xhiedmayer^
"Pianos
THE
BEST PIANO
(or tha
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99=101, York Street, SYDNEY.
And all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
mi
rHE
(RECIS
O.ffCPL*
TERED)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C? t -„.
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless and
cumbersome trusses ? Do you want to obtain an
appliance that is not only comfortable to wear
but one THAT WILL HOLD YOUR RUPTURE UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS? Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials regarding
our
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
which is something entirely new, is in fact, THE
BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE OF THE CENTURY. No
galling steel springs or chafing leather undei - -
straps. The pad is made of soft pliable rubber
which presses gently, yet firmly on THE CORRECT
SPOT. To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the reach
of all. Can you ask for more? PERFECT EASE
AND COMFTRT FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE. An
appliance suitable for men, women and children
Descriptive Pamphlet Posted Free.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
The’Standavd Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
m use since 1566.
h
CURES
Austrian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist I'oritshistory—the book is free—or write
S- GRKEN. 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
h
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name
ĥ
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Look manly and
smart by growing an attrac-
tive Moustache. ‘MOUSTA,’
I the True Moustache Grower,
speedily forces one at any
■H ag & like magic. Quite harmless to use.
Boys become men. ‘ Mousta ’is used
all over the world and is strongly
recommended by the Medical Pro-
fession. Entire success or money willingly
returned. ‘Mousta’ produces astonishingly
quick results and is the talk of London.
Full Treatment, sufficient to promote Good
Growth, 5/- (postage 6d. extra!, sent at once
in plain wrapner on receipt of International
Money Order, 5/6. Send now to —
F. DIXON & CO., 42, Junction Road,
London, N., England.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
For general use
The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form.
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
I
DIET
fa)
\
1
i
i
r.
(0
<?«\*
m
£1
VV *
-51 l
%
y
W &U.
The Power of the Great Mogul
Though the power of the Great Mogul was tremendous, it furnished a striking
example of misplaced energy—misplaced by reason of it’s being directed where it did
the least amount of good.
The “1.H.C.” “Mogul” Gasolene Tractor has, like its namesake, enormous power,
but unlike him its, power is developed just where the greatest possible benefits accrue
from its energies, i.e., the Draw-bar.
That’s one great reason for the phenomenal and universal success of the “1.H.C.”
Tractor—it wastes less hauling energy than any other internal combustion engine in
the wide world.
No need to take our word for the above, because the “1.11. C.” has proved it
again and again in open competition against the world’s next best engines.
In the last competition at Winnipeg, Canada, its competitors were nine in number.
Three of these engines were withdrawn from Draw-bar test, and the remaining
six developed at the Draw-bar an average of 59.5% of their horse-power as against
75% developed by the “1.H.C.”
Not content with a 15% victory in the matter of Draw-bar power development,
the “1.H.C.” in the Fuel test at the same competition consumed 33% less fuel per
acre ploughed than the average amount consumed by its seven competitors.
As compared with other engines, buying an “LHC.” Tractor is therefore on a
par with buying several draught horses, that r.ot only haul more than any others,
but cost far less to feed.
Of all the internal combustion Tractors new in use in Australia, 4 out of 5 are
“IH.C.s”— very significant. ~
Literature of a nature both interesting and profitable to engine buyers free on
application to
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Boiirke Street, Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart, General Agent for Southern Tasmania.
GEO. WILLS <£ CO., Perth, General Agents for Western Auslrc.Ua.
(328)


The Chalmers has been
recommended to me.”
h
Day after day, both in Sydney and Melbourne, intending purchasers come to our showrooms to
see the Chalmers—men from the North of Queensland, men from Tasmania, men from all over
Australia.
We take this condition to mean that the Chalmers car has not only now made a good reputa-
tion in our country, but also that the Chalmers Company has succeeded in building cars that
appeal to the careful buyers here.
Out of the 46 cars we have sold since Christmas, 35 of them were Chalmers cars; out of
these 35 purchasers, 12 were experienced motorists—men who had previously owned cars. Again,
there were four repeat orders from Chalmers owners.
From Sydney to Narromine, 300 miles, at an average of 33 miles per hour, and over 20 miles
to the gallon of fuel. From Warialda to Newcastle, 310 miles, in daylight. Seven thousand
miles in 10 weeks, and the front tyres still good. These records speak for themselves.
20-30 H.P. Touring Car
equipped with Five Lamps,
Generator, 880 x 120
fj a An
£49Q
teed
Turn
Cs.
35-40 H.P. Torpedo
with full equipment
gj,” 0 X 120
A'YfkifV
X/9!)
ART CATALOGUES ARE FREE. GET ONE.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
Agent for Chalmers and Thomas Cars and Empire Runabouts,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
ĥ
he World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
TO THE FARMER,
the FERRO ENGINE has
proven itself an inestimable
boon by relieving him of the hard work about the
farm, such as pumping water, chaff and ensilage
cutting, bagging and hoisting, corn grinding, husk-
ing and shelling, sawing wood, separating cream,
driving winnowers or any machine for which
moderate power is required. Also on account of the
increased profit made by their use, which in many
cases has more than paid for the entire outfit before
the f rst season is over.
Drop a postcard to the nearest agent, giving par-
ticulars of machine or plant for which you require
power, and he will advise you of the most suitable
engine for the purpose. YOU WILL REMEMBER
THEIR HONEST SERVICE LONG AFTER YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN THE SMALL COST.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, V/ 2 , 8,11, 12,15, 17, 25 B.H.P.
FERRO ACE.iTS:
Hall Bros., Oruitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co.. Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St, PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moore, APIA, SAMOA.
THE
gUNYI P"
Forest Devil
This One Caps Them All!
“I have owned one of the ‘ Bunyip ’ Forest Devils
since 1909, and have used it in all classes of green stumps
and trees, large and small, and it has given every satis-
faction. I pulled two large trees in the township of
Marong, and plenty of the watchers stated that the
machine would not shift them. They were both pulled in
a very short time and with little trouble. I have pulled
large trees, one being 16ft. Bin. round the girth. The
machine, while in my use, never cost me one penny, and
is still in perfect order. I have used lots of other
machines, but this one caps them all.”
(Signed) E. J. OSBORN, Marong, via Bendigo.-
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
When writing, please mention this paper. (Op. St. Francis’ Church).
ON THE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Hull Bulletin size
Price. 21s
AERATED WATERS
THE REGAL Aerated Water Machine. 1911 Model.
of the very best quality are produced with the
REGAL
at less than ONE
PENNY per dozen.
The most perfect and compact
machine ever offered for the use
of Hotelkeepers, Cafes, etc.
Write at once for Catalogues
and Prices.
Sole Manufacturers:
Eckersley U Sons,
5 Bond Street, Sydney,
and Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA: Auld & Sons,
Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA : L. Samson & Sons,
Fremantle.
Note:—As a warranty for the ex-
cellent quality of the aerated waters
produced by Eckerslev’s machines,
we may mention that they are
used exclusively in the leading hos-
pitals in Sydney, Melbourne and
Wellington.
1
JZT!
S'
*
Alcock Billiard
Tables excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “ Alcock s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the Melbourne match between George Gray
and Fred Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coming
off the red, is another proof of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & CO.Pty. Ltd.
Billiard Table Man,«fadurers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth. t 5
ħ
HORSE GAGS.
Sharpe’s flags are made from American design,
in Sheffield, of Steel.
Are heavily Nickel-plated, and complete with Two
Pairs of Plates and Bridle.
Are the most Practical, Strongest and Durable
flags on the market.
Can be released by hand when horse jaws are
pressing the plates.
Afford ample exposure
for Examinations
and Operations.
Satisfaction or Money
Back.
46/9
POST FREE.
WRITE FOR KNIFE AJND VET. LIST.
SHARPE & SHARPE,
18 Bridge Street, Sydney.


Lyric and colonial theatres,
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OE PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to he seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don't forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but. we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS —EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
* England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “ International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE MELBA GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THURSDAY (7th), SANSONE E DALILA.
FRIDAY (Bth), FAUST.
SATURDAY (9th), LA BOHEME.
MONDAY (11th\ SANSONE E DALILA.
TUESDAY (12th), LA TRAVIATA.
WEDNESDAY (13th), MATINEE—SANSONE E DALILA ;
EVENING-FAUST. THURSDAY (14th), SANSONE E
DALILA. FRIDAY (15th), LA BOHEME.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd
THIS EVENING, AT 8 O'CLOCK,
The Brilliantly Successful MUSICAL PLAY,
A WALTZ DHE A M.
Specially Attractive Cast from
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING.
The Greatest English-speaking Actress on the stage to-day
ETHEL IRVING
AND HER ENTIRE LONDON COMPANY,
Direct from St. James’s Theatre,
in A. E. W. Mason's Compelling Play,
THE WITNESS FOR THE DEFENCE.
Box Plan ELVY’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Chough Marlow, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of NICK CARTER, DETECTIVE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 9,
For the First Time in Sydney, Geo. De Gray’s Interesting
and Intensely Telling Moral Drama,
THE ANGEL OF HIS DREAMS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES —35., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra
A L A C E T H E A TRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THE CHRISTIAN.
EUGENIE DUGGAN as GLORY QUAYLE.
ROY REDGRAVE as JOHN STORM.
PALACE THEATRE.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
«A«ILLIAIVI ANDERSON’S PANTOMIME,
THE OLD WOMAN WHO
LIVED IN A SHOW.
AT THE PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
MATINEES ONLY—WEDNESDAY and
SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
The Old Woman Visits Her Suburban Friends during the
Week. POPULAR PRlCES—Children Half-Price.
George Coates, Representative.
National amphitheatre, Sydney.
Sol" Proprietors—Brennan s Ampitheatres, Limited.
Governing Director—Mr. James Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
THE BEST IN VAUDEVILLE.
AT B—MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
LES PETITS TOTOS, French Equilibristes. JORDAN
and HARVEY, Two Sons of Israel. - JULES GARRISON
and TWO ROMAN MAIDS. EVA MUDGE, Marvellous
Lightning Changes. CAPTAIN WINTER’S EDUCATED
DOGS. OUR GREAT DOUBLE CO. POPULAR PRICES.
AMATEUR TRIALS EVERY FRIDAY.
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction E. J. KILPATRICK.
THE HOME OE EXCLUSIVE
T> I r'TTTD TTQ CONTINUOUS
XJvl U IV/Eo. 10 a.m. to 10.3 p.m.
SOCIAL RECEPTIONS DAILY by
PAT O’CONNOR, THE IRISH GIANT.
PRICES, 3d. and 6d.
HE
EVERY
LYCEUM
EYENING AT 8.
M ATI NECS -WEDNESDAYS. SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 230.
C PENCER'SHaTREXOPE
J PICTURES
rfRE svper/or ro au. otmers. <»
Popular Prices Plata at Palinca.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Hariiy Rickards.
MATIN FES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
First Appearance in Sydney of McLALLEN & CARSON,
Roller Skaters and Novelty Dancers.
MISS LOUIE TRACY, The Dapper Dandy Boy.
CLARKE AND MOSTOL, Dancets Extraordinary.
ALF HOLT SYDNEY BACH. CARLTON MAX.
THE BRIGHT SISTERS. VINCENT & SINCLAIR.
THE TWO McCOLLS. IRVING SAYLES.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Opera house, meebourne.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
CLARK & HAMILTON, Musical Comedy Artists.
ALBERT REES,* Drawing-room Entertainer.
SPISSELL BROS. & MACK, Eccentrics & Pantomimists.
DALY & O’BRIEN, Tanglefoot Dancers.
McLALLEN & CARSON, Roller Skaters.
FRANCIS & ALFRED, Comedy Jugglers.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES —35., 25,, Is.
V .M.C.A. HAH, Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
1 Direction : Walter Monk.
FRIDAY and SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8 and 9.
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
CLEMENT L. WBAGGL,
Astronomer, Author and Lecturer,
presenting 1 a series of
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
Prices 35., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
gYDNEY CLAOIABI'UM
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/. Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
pHINC ESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FOR A BRIEF SEASON ONLY.
CONAN DOYLE'S THRILLING STORY,
THE SPECKLED BAND.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
M EEBOURNE GEACIARIUM.
ICE SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
ADMISSION—AFTERNOONS, 2/-; CHILDREN, 1/-.
EVENINGS, 1/-
IWEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGH Pat 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER ”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous " Mack ” Screen, together with tlie
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafb.
|y| ELBOURNE GLACIABIIJM.
ICE SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
ADMISSION—AFTERNOONS, 2/-; CHILDREN, 1/-
’ EVENINGS, 1/-.
m ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
IN
HAMLE T.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Wili.iam Andkrson.
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Romantic Russian Naval Drama,
THE FRENCH SPY.
WALTER BAKER as CAPTAIN VIVIAN SOMERS.
Box Plan at Allan’s;. PRICES—3s.. 2s. and Is.
■y HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION.
Messrs. CLARKE and MEYNELL’S NEW
OPERA CO. in
Tll K CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
] Plan at Allan’s.
S3T- PRICES AS USUAL,
irths Olympia.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
w
MATINees-Wedhesdays .Saturdays and Holidays at 2 -30
CPENCER'SIirEATREKOPE<?
J PICTURES
rtRE -SUPER./OR TO P/.L OTHERS.
Popular Prices —Plan as Esual.i.
h
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib. left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial .. . • .. • • .. £5
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. .. 8
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial ..3
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial 5
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. ..10
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE.
LIVER ED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
iSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers.
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
2 6 £3 12 6
50 5 10 0
10 0 1 ; 1
10 0 4 IT 0
00 7 10 0
15 0 13 6
Hotels, &c.
George: hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6Si PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
Uhe HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff from 6/- a Day.
JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
HI
IV
*
ACETYLENE
compared
with other illuminants proved
itself the neatest approach to
sunlight—a brilliant steady
soft white light. Is economic
-—5 O candle-power for 5 hours
for 2d. Brandt’s Latest Auto-
matic Improved generators
are simple, durable, safe,'
economic—principles so essen-,
tial in a good generator. Send
for pamphlet. i
BRANDT Bros., Ltd.,
LAM PH OUSE,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Elizabeth St . Melbourne
•II
\er—9
t DIURETIC
KIDM&BMDM
RISiM BDY
A CORRECTIVE OfcJPA
OF THE nms*
URINARY VS A
ORGANS -L hr \3 TO/NIC
Obtainable ell Chemists
ALSO
SPLENDID
HODGSON &C?LT? I
I Sole Auslralc&i&n Agents. 73 YORKST.SYDNEY
“ nriHE Australian thinks .n Continents, because
I he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
BOOT POLISHES
OF RENOWN.
MELTONIAN
KM
Cannot be equalled
for renovating all
kinds of Glace Kid
Boots and Shoes.
ĥ
LUTETIAN
CREAM
For all kind* of
Brown Leather
Boot! Jc Shoe*.
(Made in light and dark colour*).
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES,
E. BROWN & SON, Ltd.. LONDON. Eng.
f^n
Turn
This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
n m
L
Fountain Pen Users.
You eliminate ail possible
danger of soiling the fingers
or clothing in filling the
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
Safety
Fountain Pen
You simply turn the but-
ton at the end, hold pen in
ink, untwist, and the pen
fills itself. There are no
joints, therefore the pen
cannot leak. Every pen is
put through a careful in-
spection before leaving our
factory, and it must give
satisfaction, or money re-
funded. Made in both plain
and fancy holders with a
variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents for
Waterman Fountain Pens.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and safety types.
Dealers will find our entire
line a profitable one. Write
for trade prices. They will
interest you.
If it isn’t an “ A.A.” it
isn’t a “MODERN.”
HEAP,Secondhand 15 Brakeli.P
TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE
214 George Street, Sydney.
jz/fCe^Mcm
ħ
The Accordeon with '
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
j Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30/-, Post Free.
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Pnce 15J-. Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO <St GEELONG.
V
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers. Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINC STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Gastlereafrh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25'- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINES MADE UP.
Countrv orders receive prompt attention.
Makes you look manly
Befoi
flfler
CAPILLARINE, THE SURE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
IF you cannot succeed in growing as fine a moustache as you wish, folio’
I the simple directions on the label and sufcoess is assured you. Pemianen
1 of srrowth is a feature of the CAPILLARINE treatment, and its use s not
detectable in any way, one minute’s application before retiring bem 0
is required. _ ,
30 Years on the Market ana
still the Most Reliable.
PRICE 10/6 A JAR TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE WORLD.
The C. & A Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache.
Worn at night. 2/0, 3/G, 5/6, Post Free.
CRAIG g AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established I
30 Years, j


ft
*• §
l ithSux*&
TKt Original
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Creamy
& Egg-like.
The World’s Daily Delicacy
From 1837 to 1911——
Birds
Custard
Crowns every meal with enjoyment.
Children revel in it; you r’o
right to indulge their liking for
this creamy wholesome dainty,
with its rich sto e of nutriment,
S 5 Insist on BIRD’S Custard.
No substitute can be so pure or
so wboieseme.
Beauty
is enhanced
x
/-
i 1
by
%^rv
(gC0€O
Pure, Soluble, Easily Digested.
Ask your dealer for a gratis
Van Houten Novelty and a free
sample.
?s2> Well, of course
Anything worth doing >s
worth do’ng well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
ROYAL
h
ĥ
EXAMPLE
is a GUARANTEE for every purchaser of Phosferine that
the tonic is the very best obtainable, embodies the highest skill,
and being the most potent remedy, benefits everyone equally
with Royalty. The original and genuine preparation is spelt
PHOSEERINE
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of Russia
H.M. The
King of Greece
This world-renowned restorative medi-
cine has already for many years been
supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To H.I.M. the Dowager Empress »
Russia
H.M. The Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of
Russia
And the Principle Royalty and
Aristocracy throughout the world
SIR <»OHN KIRK
THE FAMOUS CHDEF OF THE
RAGGED SCHOOL US^BON
Photo-
Elliott & Fry,
London .
Honoured by
Commands fro
H.M. The
King of Spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
NOW VISITING AUSTRALIA.
Sir John Kirk (the Famous Chief of the Ragged School Union), writes: "I cannot withhold
my spontaneous testimony to the value of a remedy which, from personal experience, i nave
found to be so efficacious. In the neuralgic and other nerve disturbances consequent on
long, continuous brain activity, Phosferine fulfils its curative functions most successluiiy.
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROYEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Ansemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the neryous system.
SPECIAL WARNING
Insist upon having the original and genuine Phosferine (spelt
Phosferine) as supplied to Royalty, and prepared only by
Ashton & Parsons* Ltd., London. Similar names and styles are
deliberate attempts to deceive the purchaser, so do not be tricked
by appearance and sound into buying worthless imitations of
PHOSEERIN E
The real Phosferine is the Royal Tonic, which fact assures
users that it is highly commended by the greatest living physicians.
Refuse all imitations under names that may be confused with
the original and genuine Phosferine, prepared only by
ASHTON &> PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The S/6 size contains neanly four times the 1/- size.
BOOMERANG ACCORPEONS
ħ
h
ĥ
Each “Boomerang” Accordeon” is the acme of
Perfection; the Reeds are hand-filed, and cost but
255., 405., and 555. Those we specially recommend
ar< No. 105 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, is of
medium size, black mouldings, two sets of wrought
and hand-turned English STEEL REEDS, invisible
Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW PROTECTORS, soberest
workmanship, and highest quality of tone. Price
255., post free. With wooden or leatherct case, ss.
No. 108 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, large
in size, black polished mouldings, bellows fitted with
patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual
rib of the bellows, and three independent stops.
Each Accordeon is fitted with instantaneous Invisible
Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-tempered Eng-
lish STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loud-
ness and quality of tone. Price, in case complete,
405., post free.
ALBERT 8 SON, 137-139 Ring Street, SYDNEY
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original antl Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
tf/itcrtdf*
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a'charm in
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
GOUT
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGAR
TRIAL
tZU/V\.
ALMOST everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar-smoking popular in Aus-
tralia.
My FREE CIGAR TRIAL is this:—l’ll send
you a box of too DIADEMAS for 22/6—equal, as
they are, to any 6d. Cigar on the market; really
worth £2 ss. per 100 —and you can smoke 5 or 6
of them. If they aren’t as good as any Cigar
you have ever tried, send the remainder back to
me, and I’ll refund your money in full, without
any charge for those you’ve smoked.
ħ
Now, I want to prove to
you how straight this offer is.
You might think—“ Why
doesn't he send the box up
without any money, and let
us send the money on when
we’ve tried the 5 or 6 and
found them as good as he
says, or else return the
balance then ?”
I tell you right off, I’d like
to do that. But that would
put all the trusting on my
side —and I've got to make a
living.
I know nearly every man-
jack ofyou would act straight
to me. if I did make this offer.
But you know as well as I
there are some who would
get the Cigars, and let me
whistle for the money.
I know there’d be only a
few who would do this; but
I sell my Cigars so close to
cost—cutting off all the ware-
houseman’s, traveller’s and
retailer’s profits—that these
few would cripple my scheme
altogether. That’s why I
can’t do it and give the same
Cigar value as I give to-day.
I know you’re trusting me
in sending down the money
before you get the Cigars.
But you’ll get the Cigars
right by return post, never
fear, You can smoke sor 6
of them, and if they’re not
as good as you expected,
you can send what are left
right back. I'll return your money every
penny of it, with no deduction whatever—
and even here you needn't only take my word
for it.
I have my banking account at the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne.
The General Manager there knows all about
me and my way of doing business. He'll vouch
for me; and you can refer to him before you
send any order at all to me. That’s proof of my
squareness, isn’t it?
Sit down now and send me 22/6 to-day, and
I’ll forward you a box of 100 DIADF.MAS —
Cigars that I promise are equal to any 6d.
Cigar sold in Australia—made from clean, long,
straight Brazilian leaf, and rolled in the finest
Java wrapper.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.


SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use.
“ SURE CATCH ” is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN. It has stood the Test for Years, thus Proving its ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers of the day, and CANNOT BE EXCELLED.
“810 FISH” TACKLE SPECIALITIES, _____
RODS.
Extra Ouallty Split Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
handed cork grip, st rong porcelain rod and end ring's, best bronzed
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Fish ” Rod. 7J feet, 57/6 each ; 8£ feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A—Very Superior “Big Fish’’ Rod, made of mottled cane, 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with whalebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake rings,
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/= each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B—The “ Queensland ” Rod, 9k feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/= each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as ISTESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
REELS.
No. 3C—Nottingham Wood Reels, aluminium lining and flange,
solid brass star back, movable check, very strong line guard. A
perfect, reel for “Big Fish." 5 inch, 22/6 ; 6 inch, 27/6 ;6J inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “ Lockfast” Tension Big Pish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, optional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 inch, 18/6 j 5 inch, 20/-;
6 inch, 25/= each. , „ _ . . . , , ,
No. 16—Finest Quality Metal “Big Fish” Reels, nickel-plated
rims and bars, mutiplying action, leather thumb brake for checking
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved with aluminium,
which greatly strengthens the reel and reduces the weight,
3* inch, 35/= ; 4 inch, 45/-
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all game fish. Sizes—
-3i inch, 3/3 each ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
and can be had in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6 j 3J inch, 3/« ;
4 inch, 3/6 ; 5 inch, 4/6 each.
No. 3—Extra Heavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red inside, mounted
with extra strong swivels, split rings, and treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 2/- ; 3h inch, 3/; 4 inch, 3/6 each.
No. 4—Best Quality Ring-mounted Devon Balts, xx heavy and
very strong ; specially made for Big Fish.
3 inch, 2/9 ; 3£ inch, 3/3 ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
We hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites.
Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
WIRE TRACES.
“ Tigef ” Traces, made from hand-twisted, flexible steel wire. A Trace
of enormous strength. Size X, 1/9 each; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. I—Steel1 —Steel Wire Traces, lj yards long, 9d. each.
No. 2—“ Hercules ” Big Fish Wire Gimp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yard, 9d. ; yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “ Zenith *’ Plaited Flax Lines, made from best quality material,
and are splendid lines for all “ Big Fish.” To he had in lengths of
100 and 200 yards. No. 3, 6/6 j No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1, 7/-.
No. l/o. 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/= per 100 yards.
CUT THIS OUT.
FILL IN THIS COUPON with your name and address, and
we will forward you by RETURN OF POST a copy of our
AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE, the
BEST AND LARGEST TACKLE LIST EVER PUBLISHED.
The talk of the Angling world. Full of useful information.
Name t .
Address
Bullrttn
MICK SIMMONS LTD ■j The Largest and Most Pog e Hej fa Depot-
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED.—i
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno'S ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
&
s
Prize *„ J alue
£3OOO
8-HOUR
ART union
a „d SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1011.
Ist Prize, value £650. 2nd Prize, value £350.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 34-7 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S. W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades=*Hall, Sydney.
h
r Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of Ml Stores
and Chemists,
%
‘ MAR' 4 *
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
w
0.
t^7
Is the most perfect Preservative -for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted'. Merrib
England, Sd. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horsf., Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All Tiießulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, li s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
pr-BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, 1 s
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Becipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D*“ Established %5 T ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
«
Write tor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OK
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. 1)r. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Madf. East, Is-
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Kin®,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget song
Book, over 300 latest; songs, Is 3d post free. G-vv.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted-
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 ae*
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leatne
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Ryna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Univers.
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, ciotn
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


INDIGESTION
Maddened by Agonising Pain-
Many Treatments Prove Useless.
/
A
THE following remarkable Indigestion
Cure by Bile Beans proves the won-
derful efficacy of this great family
medicine. Bile Beans are of untold value to
the wage-earner who cannot afford to “ lay
up ” when in ill-health. While mild in action,
they quickly restore robust health and buoyant
spirits to the weak and depressed without
making “ lying up” a necessity.
Mr. C. J. Brooks, residing at 352 Abercrombie
Street, Redfern, Sydney, is conversant with the
wonderful curative virtues of Bile Beans, and writes
the following letter for the benefit of fellow sufferers.
He says :—“ Indigestion troubled me for a long
time. ’ I also suffered with the liver, which—
together with the Indigestion —accounted for the
terrible pains I experienced, which nearly drove
me mad. Insomnia also added to my misery.. I
tried various remedies in the hope of alleviating
my sufferings, but without success. I was advised
to try Bile Beans, and decided to give them a
chance, and see if they would do me any good.
The results I have derived from Bile Beans are
most satisfactory. I underwent a course of the
... , 1 1* J .R „ T„ hnrl
Beans to the extent of two boxes, when all the pain had disappeared, the Insomnia
left me, and lam once more myself. This having been my experience with Bile Beans, I
shall certainly recommend them to anyone whom I know requires a genuine Liver medicine.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
BILE BEANS, because of their absolute purity and unfailing efficacy, are the Standard
Eemedv for biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, nausea, pains in the
chest flatulency, heartburn, anaemia, offensive breath, impure blood, loss of appetite, dis-
turned sleep, debility,
and all disorders of
tbe liver, stomach and
digestive organs. Bile
Beans are obtainable
from all chemists and
stores at 1/li, and 2/9
for large size (con-
taining three times
the 1/li size),or direct
from the Bile Bean
Manfg. Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
NATURE’S
REMEDY.
He
eans
FOR
« m «
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day f
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding; day is
have: you used pears* soap ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your shin and
complexion. If, on the other Hand
that is, on both Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s Health and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Yagabond.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"TT 'WAIT, among the rushes
That edge a salt lagoon,
- The coming of the wild duck
To, feed beneath the moon.
Where jovial day, departing,
Drinks deeply as he goes,
From out a golden goblet
Inlaid with pearl and rose;
Like feast-cloths splashed by spillage
Of precious wines, expressed
In vintage old, the clouds are stained
By lees of sunset west.
Each furred and feathered creature
Its ordered way betakes;
As daylight nature drowses,
Nocturnal nature wakes.
In ti-trees densely drooping
Dark shadows on the tide —
With silver mullet glutted —
Sleek cormorants abide;
Wild whimbrels scatter seaward
With protests harsh and lorn;
Sad cux-lews in the gloaming
Their ancient griefs bemourn.
And as the dusk her mantle
Enwraps around the day,
The kookaburra’s laughter
Discordant dies away.
The warm Bush, palpitating
With summer, lies a-thrill
In downward sweep of gully
And upward lift of hill;
And, like a veiled maiden,
With trembling, shy delight,
In woodland tryst awaiteth
The coming of the night.
From startled fish, upleaping
In sudden sport or play,
The ripples circle outward
Along the waterway.
They draw my straying vision
To peer the dark’ning weeds,
And eye again the' shallows,
Wherein the black duck feeds.
Across the scrubby hammocks
Comes, wafted cool, to me,
With recollections laden,
A salt breath of the sea,
From shores of High Ambition,
And ports of Good Intent,
Where once, v 7 ith effort freighted,
My ship of Fortune went.
Where now this vessel bideth —
By Islands of Despair
On fruitful Coasts of Promise —
I neither know nor care.
What care 1 how the combats
Of striving cities roll?
Great health is on my sinews,
Great peace rests on my soul.
No mean thoughts hourly haunt me,
No wolf snarls at my door;
Against my trigger finger
A charge of Number Four
Contains my dinner’s promise,
Nor shall I, waking, dread
The morrow or a master
To dole my daily bread.
No rentlord, stern as Fate is,
Doth mar the glad week’s end;
Nor will insistent trades folk
Their sordid missives send.
For yonder on the headland,
Dove-white a tent is furled,
Which has for its environs
The garden of the world.
Beyond its open doorway,
Along untrodden sands,
The ocean sings for ever,
And ever shine the lands.
Why should I for the freehold
Of acres green aspire,
AVho hold in gypsy tenure
The greenness of a shire?
I know the earth I’ll lie in,
When these short days are o’er,
Than his who lords a parish
Shall not be less—or more.
Why should I riches covet
With treasures such as these
That richen my far-spreading
Estate of lands and seas?
The stars are all my jewels;
The sun is all my gold ;
The silver of the waters
Is mine to keep and hold.
The pillars of my mansion
In carven strength uprise
Where throw the forests splendid
Their arches to the skies,
And, draped with richest arras
Of painted leaf and vine,
Its halls anon re-echo
A woodland music fine.
Here hang my pictures splendid,
In blue-domed galleries;'
Here ring the strains unending
Of songs that never cease.
I pity Sultan Mahmoud
Upon his gilded seat,
I pity Demos toiling,
And Dives at his meat.
For I have found the portal
Through which the sages went,
To tread the gentle highway
Of Infinite Content.
But if ye seek the gateway
Who also would be free,
Be sure it will not open
Unto a golden key.
For yokes that fall the lightest
On rebel necks like mine,
Are borne where no conventions
Like streets in order line.
And road that lies the fairest
To vagabonds like me,
Is by the River Careless
That runs through Romany.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Fool and the Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A SUDDEN flapping of paper ; a rustle ;
a, thump on the floor.
The manager looked round with a
frown, which became a smile as he faced the
first of the sea-breeze. Through the unglazed
windows it had come with a rush that had
blown over a sheaf of invoices, and with
them a small inkbottle.
The sea-breeze had within the last couple
of months become a matter of importance to
Buhner. Bulmer, who, once a burly and
red-faced Briton, had laughed to scorn the
atrocities of the West- African climate.
Deadly? Not a bit of it! The men who
went under were the men who were beaten
before they started the fight. They expected
the place to knock them over, and the place
obligingly knocked them over accordingly.
He had been here ten solid years, and
well, look at him!
And at the time he had been worth look-
ing at. Bluff-built and ruddy, as has been
said, he, had been also clear-eyed, firm-jawed,
and straight as a palm-stem. Now, to put
it shortly, he was none of these things, ex-
cept when for a brief space he was able to
pull himself together. But “pulling your-
self together” means in certain cases only a
greater subsequent shaking of yourself
apart. And Buhner’s was one of those
cases. #
“Can’t make you out at all,” the sun-
dried lath of a doctor said, thoughtfully roll-
ing a black Trichinopoly in his mouth.
“Liver’s a trifle enlarged, but nothing to
speak of. Sound as a bell otherwise. You’ve
no fever, and gastric tonics would be thrown
away upon you in this hell’s brew of a cli-
mate.”
Bulmer wriggled impatiently in his deep
deck-chair. “You doctor-chaps are precious
little use at a pinch,” he said, drearily.
“Strikes me that half of you have never
learnt your trade and the other half have
forgotten it.”
The doctor smiled. “Epigrammatic!” he
said. “Well, I’m not much inclined to con-
tradict the first part of your proposition.
But, tell me”—thoughtfully pulling his grey
moustache —“have you any enemies in the
settlement?”
“Enemies! No. I’m on good terms, as
far as I know, with every man in the place.
There aren’t so many of them, if it comes to
that.”
“Not very many white men.” Dr. Des-
mond looked at the other intently.
“Oh, you’re thinking of the blacks, are
you? Confound the brutes! I have as little
to do with them as possible. No ‘man-and-
brother’ bosh for me. A ‘damn nigger’ is a
‘damn nigger’—and there’s an end of it. But
I don’t know why I should have any enemies
amongst the darkies, or what they could do,
if I had.”
Desmond got up and paced to and fro for
a space before he spoke.
“No; the niggers wouldn’t trouble much
about your abstract estimate of them, so
long as you didn’t take to manhandling
them. But, as to what they could do —
well, that’s another matter.”
Bulmer got up in his turn, and looked
with half-contemptuous smile at the other.
“I suppose you’re referring to ‘jiu-jitsu’,” he
said.
“You mean ‘ju-ju.’ Yes, that’s what I
was thinking of.”
Bulmer laughed uproariously, but it did
not escape the doctor’s trained observation
that there was a note of the hysteric in the
cachinnation. “They laugh best who laugh
last,” he quoted gravely.
“I’m sure I beg your pardon, doctor,” the
other said. “But it certainly was a bit-
amusing to find a' man of your experience
and knowledge of the world”
Desmond checked him. “It is precisely
my experience that teaches me How-
ever, let it pass.” He relighted his cigar
and puffed furiously.
“What does ‘ju-ju’ mean, anyhow?” Bul-
mer asked, after a long pause in the talk.
Desmond avoided his eye. “Oh, it means
a lot of things. Religion, sorcery, ritual,
mystery—in short, anything awful, or horri-
ble, or weird.”
“But, as it affects human beings?” Bulmer
persisted. “Or as it is supposed to affect
them?”
“That’s the way to look at it,” the doctor
said. “Is supposed to affect them.. Because
there’s probably nothing in the notion, after
all.”
His manner was unconvincing. The other
man saw that he wanted to put the subject
aside.
“Well,” Bulmer said, “you seemed just
now to think there was a good deal in it.
Now, look here —has this anything to do
with the infernal hanky-panky you appear
to have in your mind?” He dived a hand
into the breast pocket of his white drill coat
and brought forth a small shark-skin bag,
from which he shook out upon the table,
amongst some dried grass, the skull of a
snake.
The doctor took this up and examined it
as closely as if he had never set eyes on
such a thing before. And his face gave no
sign. “Where’d you get this?” he asked,
with affected carelessness.
“ITound it in my pocket a month ago.
Wondered how it cot there. Threw it away.
Found it in the same place a couple of days
later. Wondered still more, and threw it
away again—this time into the lagoon. In
two days it was in my pocket again.
Pitched it into the lagoon again, and kept
my coat under my head at night. On the
morning of the third day it was in my pocket
once more. Then I smashed the skull up with
a hammer. No use. In three days it, or its
perfect replica, was in my pocket again.
I’ve let it stay there since,” concluded Bui-
(Continued on next page.)


“That Backache Worries Me.”
How many people suffer constantly from lame, aching backs,
and don’t know why ? Backache is kidney-ache in most cases.
The kidneys (located in the small of the back) ache and throb
with dull pain, because there is a congestion or inflammation
within. You can’t get rid of that ache until you cure the cause —
the kidneys. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure sick Kidneys,
and thus drive away backache for good. If it hurts your back to
stoop or lilt —if you suffer sudden, darting pains through the
hips, loins and sides, suspect the kidneys. There will be other
signs, too : headaches, dizziness, scanty or painful urination, too
frequent urination, rheumatism, brick-dust sediment in the urine,
nervousness, or a constant tired feeling. Take Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. Thousands have found quick relief and lasting-
cures through this famous kidney remedy.
A Lasting Sydney Cure.
Mr. George Woodroffe, Roseby Street, Drummoyne, Sydney, writes: —“I derived very great benefit
from the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills. I have been a great sufferer with the kidneys for the
Past seventeen years. My suffering started with a cold, and eventually inflammation of the kidneys and
bladder set in. I have been treated by some of the cleverest and best-known Sydney doctors, and was
for seventeen and a half weeks in one hospital. 1 was also two months in another hospital, where I had
one kidney removed. Though the various treatments eased me for a time, I was not cured, and would
soon relapse into my former ill-health. I also tried medicines advertised to cure kidney complaint, but
they did not even give me temporary relief. My brother was always worrying me to try Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, if I only took one bottle. To please him I got them, and before I had finished the
bottle I felt. extraordinarily well. I had not felt so well for years; the pills were working wonders for
me. I continued taking them, and am now perfectly cured of every symptom of kidney trouble.”
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above: —“My cure has lasted, for' I am still free of every symptom of
kidney and bladder trouble. All sufferers should know about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills”'
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Every Picture
Tells A Story .
v
c
\
Of all Chemists and Stores, 2s. 9d. per
bottle; six bottles, 15s. 3d. ; or P° st
free, direct from Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
mer with a sickly grin, “because —because —I
can’t help myself!”—and the once aggress-
ive Bulmer broke into a miserable whimper.
Desmond strode swiftly into his bottle-
room and returned in ten seconds with a.
draught. “Here, old man,” he said cheer-
fully. “Gobble this, and then go home and
lie down. I’ll come over inside half an hour.
’Fraid you’re in for a touch of fever, after
all; but we’ll take it in time, and pull you
through all right.”
But Desmond knew there was no fever in
the case, and Bulmer knew that he knew.
The doctor, when lie was alone, flung him-
self down into a chair and crossed his hands
behind his grizzled head. “Well, Denis
Desmond,” he said to himself, “here you are,
right up against it again—this damnable
thing that has our boasted Western medical
science beaten to a standstill. ‘Jadoo’ in
India, ‘obi’ in the West Indies, ‘porroh’ in
the interior of this lovely continent, and ‘ju-
ju’ all along this accursed coast. And I be-
lieve it’s all fundamentally the same thing.
And we are absolutely powerless, we pundits
of the West. We’ve just got to sit back
and look on, while what we are pleased to
call barbarism scores a notch above us every
time. As for this poor chap, Bulmer, he’ll
be on t’other side in less than a month.”
Then—with that indifference which, in a
doctor, is at once so natural and so un-
natural—Desmond went across to the Pcrle
d'Afrique for a game of billiards.
And there, when he was on the point of
scoring an easy “in oft the red,” somebody
said: “Queer thing about Bulmer.” Des-
mond missed his shot and turned to the
speaker. The other nodded. “Yes,” lie
said. “Pegged out about ten minutes ago.”
I hen, with tin* carelessness of the dweller
in a place where every white man carried,
all the time, his life in his hand —“Sker-
riek’s pretty sure to slip into his place, I
suppose. He’s not next in seniority, but
lies been coaching himself up in the details
of the business as if he fullv expected to fill
Bulmer’s shoes.”
“He’ll have to go home first, though,”
said another. “Fairland and Coxon won’t
appoint a man to such an important post
without having personal knowledge of him.
Bulmer himself had to make the trip home
and back when Aird went under.”
* * * *
Skerrick, with his heels on the verandah-
rail, smoked and gazed reflectively at the
broad tropic moon, mounting majestically
from the forest-clad ridge at the back of the
settlement. The B.A. boat was due off the
port to-morrow, and Skerrick was a purpos-
ing passenger.
“And the point is,” he said to himself,
“would it be better tc« break off with that
confounded woman to-night, or to leave the
matter till I come back?”
A faint rustle made him turn his head.
The question had settled itself; the “con-
founded woman” was before him.
“Just as well.” he muttered. Then, aloud:
So it s you, Loba. Come to say good-bye,
eh?”
Loba was a half-caste, but the colored
moiety of her wasn t negro. Her mother had.
been an Ibami from the northern Soudan,
and Loba possessed the tall, lithe figure and
bold, aquiline features of the race. Indeed,
she was a determined-looking young person
generally, as she stood there, statue-like in
her long white saka, and made briefly known,
in tolerable English, the purpose of her visit.
Skerrick had kept from her, she said, the
knowledge of his approaching departure.
“Why tins be?” she asked quietly. “You no
meana marree me, as you tell many time?”
Skerrick suddenly determined to take the
situation by the throat. He had never had
the slightest intention of marrying her, and
now was the time to tell her so.
Loba heard it all calmly, though the an-
nouncement was not entirely unseasoned
with the spitefulness so often found in men
of Skerriek’s outward stamp —undersized,
meagre, and sharp-featured.
“So you see, Loba,” he concluded, “the
thing is entirely out of the question now—
whatever it may have been when —when”-
"When you wanta me put ju-ju on Buli-
mah,” the woman slipped in. “Good ! Buli-
mah gone. Now you go, too!”
“Yes. But only ror a little time, Loba.
And I’m sure you won’t bear me any malice
when I come bacK.”
“Malish? What he? Oh, hata you, you
mean. No, 1 no hata you—w’en you com-a
back. An’ now, good-a-bye—l no see you
again.”
“Oh, yes, Loba, you will —when i come
back.”
The woman’s white teeth flashed in the
moonlight.
“Wen you com-a back?” she repeated—
and went, without another word.
Skerrick looked after the gliding white
figure. “Bit of a tragedy-queen,” he said.
“Well, the thing was easier than I expected.
I’m well out of it, at all events.”
lie lit another cheroot and went inside to
pack up.
The big B.A. boat was getting her twin-
screws to work again, after her two hours’
stop outside the bar.
. “Glad to have you on board, Mr. Sker-
rick,” the skipper said. “Going to have
charge out here, I understand. Shouldn’t
wonder if we had you back with us on the
return trip. Know your firm well. They
are riglit-off-the-reelers, and no mistake.
Hullo! —what’s that?”
Skerrick, pulling out his handkerchief to
wipe his streaming brow, had pulled With it
a little sliark-skin bag, which fell on the
deck. lie picked it up and opened it. Some
dry grass, enveloping a snake’s skull.
“Funny little outfit,” said the skipper,
carelessly, but his face was very grave.
“Best heave it overboard.”
“Why, yes,” assented Skerrick. “It cer-
tainly hasn’t much intrinsic value.” He
threw the things over the side. “The puzzle
is how the bag got into my pocket.”
“Some nigger-boy’s trick, 1 suppose,” said
the skipper. But he knew better. He had
been running the West-African coast for 20
years.
“Look here, doc.,” he said to the ship’s
surgeon later on, “d’you know anything of
this ju-ju business they talk so much about?”
The doctor fingered his beard for a few
moments before he spoke.
“Well, of course I have heard plenty about
the thing; but, if you want any explana-
tion of it from me, I tell you plainly I can’t
give it. If any man could throw light on
the subject, it ought to be Desmond, down
there where we’ve just left; but, though he
has been five-and-tbirty years on this devil-
ish coast, lie’s still as much in the dark as
any of us. He knows about some of the
things they use, though. He told me about
a snake’s skull”
“In a little bag, with some dried grass,”
put in the captain eagerly. “Yes; and
there’s a man on board who has just found
the charm, or the curse, or whatever it is, in
Ins pocket.”
“Which man?” said the doctor, and the
captain pointed out Skerrick. “Fairland
and Coxon’s man,” he explained. “Going
home to be made manager, and come out
again.”
“Hum!” said the doctor. “He’ll be lucky
if he ever gets to Liverpool—to say nothing
of coming out again. He threw the thing
overboard, you say?”
“Saw him do it.”
“Oh, well; we’ll wait and see. But if he
keeps on finding the same thing, or some-
thing that can’t be distinguished from it,
he'll never see England again.”
“Good Lord!” said the skipper. “And
can’t we do anything?”
“Nothing,” said the doctor, gloomily, “ex-
cept lock him in his cabin ; and, even if you
were justified in doing that, it wouldn’t save
him.”
* * * *
Skerrick, sitting down to dinner next
evening, found in his serviette, in place of
the customary piece of bread —a little shark-
skin bag! He made no sign, put the thing
in his pocket, and, as soon as he could get
on deck after dinner, flung it overboard.
He wasn’t going to be scared, he bravely
told himself, by any such monkey-tricks as
these. But when, two nights later, he
found the accursed little bag under his pil-
low, he sat down, shivering, and had a bad
live minutes before, with a sudden reaction,
he jumped up, opened the port, and flung
the thing furiously out of it. Then he lay
down and pondered for possibly half an
hour.
“That's it!” he summed up. “Some trick of
legerdemain. Some infernal idiot wasting
his time in trying to frighten Joe Skerrick.
But Joe Skerrick” —a cross-current came
into his thoughts. “There has been nobody
into this cabin since 1 entered it,” he told
himself; “so, of course” — He lifted confi-
dently the pillow—and there lay a little
shark-skin bag!
He sat for a few minutes, paralysed ; then
he seized the bag and tore it open—as before,
a snake’s skull and some dried grass.
Then, suddenly, he knew, and a "voice
sounded again in his ears.
“Good! Bulimah gone. Now you go,
too!”
Double-dyed fool that he had been, to
think that Loba, who at his instigation
had remorselessly done to death a man who
had never injured her, would spare Mm,
who had so coolly broken the promise which
alone had made her his instrument! There
had been no escape for Bulmer. and now
there was no escape for him. His mind—
like that of so many men of hard business
faculty—was but jerry-built in its other de-
partments. It collapsed now like a castle of
cards. He stole out on deck.
The night was dark and thick. A stiffish
nor’-wester was kicking up an ugly head-sea.
The vessel was making noisy plunges; no-
body heard the little splash.
ALEX. B. MONTGOMERY.
Magnificat
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT dewy dawn I heard a Voice,
Whose lute-sweet rhythm silenced
strife;
“Rejoice!” it sang, “O man, rejoice
In all the ecstasies of Life!”
It was an angel’s orison;
And then a soft, mysterious sound
I heard, as ’twere the heavenly one
Passed lightly over grassy ground.
Dawn came, and rosebuds breathed sweet
prayers,
And leaves sighed sempiternal vows
To sun-gods, and fantastic airs
Pert sparrows chirruped to wet boughs.
Far eastward shimmered sea and sky,
Merged in phantasmal purple-grey;
In Heaven’s blue the roving eye
Marked not a single bird of prey.
New-washed with radiant summer rain,
New-lit with Hod’s immortal eyes,
All earth heaved glad and green again;
’Tis only human joy that dies.
Earth hath no visionary grief;
She seemed a sleeper, angel-fair,
Waked by love’s kisses. . .past belief
Ilis bright, enchanted presence there!
While o’er the hills I tramped, a throng
Of birds delighting, scarce above
My breath I hummed a little song—
A little song of peace and love.
The joy of life sang in my heart;
’Twas with unruffled rapture that
I sang my tranquil-dreaming part
In earth’s sublime Magnificat.
Far-off the palpitating town,
In keen, surprising sunbeams caught*
Flashed signals, purple, gold and brown;
Such the entrancements God hath wrought!
About each busy, burnished street,
’Mid showers of gold and silver darts,
Young girls were color-bright, and sweet
As sunbuds their up-lifted hearts.
In gardens, green and blossom-dight,
Pods scattered seed for Spring’s return—
Spring, whose soft language of delight
Young birds and lovers love to learn.
Green-fire stirred the inebriate air,
Earth’s joy breathed life in every stone;
Wild songs were warbled everywhere,
In all creation not a moan!
Where rippling water lullabies
A bank that willows dream above,
With tender homage in her eyes
A true giil brimmed mv cup with love!
The gold sun burned the hours away;
My heart was passionately glad...
“Now, surely in all earth to-day
There hideth not a creature sad !”
N.S.W
W. M. WHITNEY.


W estinghouse
/• Fpr NATION ARY
Oil Engine "
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
■
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
ĥ
atest Standard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
MADE in Sib. and 61b. weights ; in sizes 2f" x s£", and 4" x6£ ;
with a 330, 600 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively.
It has a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move—a glittering mirror finish—and, over all, our guarantee.
Thoroughly efficient for both light and heavy work; simple, yet
strong: clean,,handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 301 b. [
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
W. C. WATSON & CO., Limited,
STREET, SYDNEY.
v-: '6-^-
THE SECRET OF OUR PROMPTNESS
and satisfactory business methods is system. Our plant is so organised that we are enabled to
give the same close attention to the delivery of a small parcel as to the biggest furniture
removal. Our staff is experienced and trustworthy to a man. Will you allow us to serve you
—we will convey your luggage to its destination, remove or deliver your parcels. Our
’phone is City 1290.
SANDERS, SUTTON & WHITEHEAD LTD.,
Storage, Removal and Carrying Experts,
Contractors to N.S.W. Govt Railways.
HEAD OFFICE 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
I DEPOTS: Chats wood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Dulwioh Hill, Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly.
FARMER’S
ħ
GUARANTEED TWO YEARS.
.
% . •
This is our
4-h.p. Portable
Wood Saw
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES.
Get their prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense
sale, and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
h
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit.
Long Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
J5g.,49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in Thhl Lonk Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of This Lone Hand.
£ooK Well Utter Yourself >
If vou consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
vou find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
vour vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them ’ Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
bv means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
TaHc
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Beccham’s pills.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price Hl* (56 pills) <£ 2 9 (168 pills).
BUSINESS MEN and OTHEBS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOUikD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. fri:d. mcWILLIam. Manager.
Dinnefqrds
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford & Co.”
is on every bottle
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Heaaacne,
iaon, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
' \
<1
JUST
IN
The
TIME
Good
Samaritan
i
77
\t
/
1
5i 14
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS and COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
S>cmnd-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL,
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
TELEPHONES.
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices.
Dynamos , Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fireproof buildings of
Fibro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, otc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
build i njr of Fibro-Cemem.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and piaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lfthos and Catalog L to sole importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
WOLFE’S -
FOR MEN —-
FOR WOMEN
APPS
Motor Driven
‘BON ACCORD*
STEEL LINED
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
For PUMPING
SLIMES, TAIL-
INGS, etc. Also
for DREDGING
ORES, GRAVEL,
SAND & STONES
ĥ
“BON ACCORD”
Centrifugal Pumps.
HIGH EFFICIENCY.
For Sand Pumping, Sewerage, Salvage, Condensing.
Irrigating, Braining, DocK Pumping, Mine Pumping, etc.
J. WILD RIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd *2 Pitt St., Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&C.
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
| MEPHAN FERGUSON
(ROBERT SHAND
and Works
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Central
(3236
\5221
ħ
h
ELECTRICAL and GENERAL ENGINEERS,
Quotations given for Electrical Installations
307, 309, 311 Kent St.
(near Erskine
Street),
Sydney
Adapted for All
. : - ' x :■ . .
■ V* ' /•- . y
• 3 , 7m ', * * f
iiSIMSS
Single and Duplex
Piston and Outside Packed
Plunger Type for —
Mine Sinking, Cyanide Works, Battery
Supply, Tank Filling, Boiler Feeding, etc.
aiso ELECTRIC and POWER PUMPS.
SOLE AGENTS
... FOR...
AUSTRALASIA
ma
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ĥ
ħ
JS
X*
&
W*
s°
X*
&
s^
*1
© N
©'
**
*CN
vX®
\\
x>
SO
X**
&
* v
*o°
*\*
s*
©*
fc®
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
263 George Street, Sydney; 525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CONCENTRATOR GV* A( .
AGITATING CYANIDE TANKS.
Sc^eEiv
h
ĥ
ħ
