

THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. G. WATELINS 4C CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney.
' ■ —FOB— m m m
TVTinincr and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES. BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr d? )3r
Herbert’s
Hachine Tools.
Economy in Labor. Increased Output.
535 Kent Street, Sydney*
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne*
B.A. Agent: C. C. PEL AMP, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaida.
HOBART.
jjadley’s Orient fiotel
p
lONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
«S. C« Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
dfg
Take it back,
I must have
Fioc-Ai
h dsf
9
FI
RESISTING
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSENS
tablets
F or INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
aW
Co
&o*u» /SZO • 'Stiff' fPicuy
4
n)
\
s,
sV
v*
$
3
<b
&
o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS DSBRT.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
uiaj
gsd
Cata
FOR
gsd
There is one brand of
Roofing which is the
highest standard of
perfection. It is 8 *"
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY,
. ~< •
1
m
m
m
Be sure to ask your
architect to specify
Malthoid oa your home.
It means satisfaction.
OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
g
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
ECONOMY
sdfg
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDQN SPA WATER
-vSyr ' y|l : *0 - ■"HP" "•* “’'P’" "P ' <•»
T/ie wonderful efficacy of HELIDON SPA
••■*" — 1 St 4
DEWHDRST 8 HAILORAN, Itl.
The Bullrtin
Vol.32.—No. 1614.1
[Thursday, January 19, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS AND NEW SUPPLIES.
Sven Hedin : Overland to India, 2 vols., 30s, posted 37s 6d.
Protheroe : New Ed. Natural History, 7s 6d, postedBs 3d.
Dixon : Edinburgh Book of Scottish Verse, Os, p. 9s 9d.
Peter’s Principles of Copper Smelting-, 255, posted 26s 6d.
Louis : Dressing of Minerals, 365, posted 37s 6d.
Miller’s Mine Examiner knd Prospector’s Companion, 15s,
Hoffman : Magical Tit Bits, 2s lid, posted 2s lOd.
Oetrup J. O.: Stand, Specifications for Structural Steel
5s od, posted 6s. fonstpH 9^sa
Julian and Smart: Cyaniding Gold, Silver Ores 25s
Hoover s Pnnciples of Mining, 12s 6d, posted 13s 3d.
Richards, R H : Text Book of Ore Dressing, in one
volume abridged, 255, posted 26s 6d.
RICHARDS, R. H. s ORE DRESSING, complete In four volumes, price £5, posted ss.
Lists of Books available on any subject sent on application.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP,, LTD,, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young. 1
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
the Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be Of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro longed
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
gsd
O. The Bronchial
Tubes o l a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of'one
o t the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/S post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I 9 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
Oliver Goldsmith —R. Ashe King (Methuen,.6s.).
A well-balanced study which will renew the
charm of the most lovable personality in
Johnson’s circle.
The Poetical Works of Thomas Moore —Edited by
A. D. Godley (Frowde, 3s. 6d.). Complete
edition.
Three Days in the Village and other sketches
written from September, 1909, to July, 1910,
by Leo Tolstoy (Free Age Press, Bd.) —
Mostly conversations, with a dream and some
remarks by Tolstby on peasant life in Russia.
The Girl’ s Head —E. Jepson (Greening). A baro-
net iu London gets a rather nice girl’s head
through the post. He smells a mystery and
tracks it down. Russian revolutionaries and
the Third Section make some excitement.
Light Refreshment —W. Pett Ridge (Angus and
Robertson).
COR CORDIUM.
Sweetheart;, true heart, strong heart, star of my
life, oh, never
For thee the lowered banner, the lost endeavor !
The weapons are still unforged that thee and me
shall dissever.
For I in thy heart have dwelling, and thou in
mine for ever.
Can a silken cord strangle love, or a steel swore
sever?
Or be as a bruised reed, the flow’r of joy fo
ever?
Love is a beautiful dream, a deathless endeavor,
And for thee the lowered banner, O Sweethear
never!
SIITJLE AGRAH!
His face was glad as dawn to me,
His breath was sweet as dusk to me,
His eyes were burning flames to me,
Shule, Shule, Shule, agrali!
The broad noonday was night to me.
The full-moon night was dark to me.
The stars whirled and the Poles span
The hour God took him far from me.
Perhaps he dreams in Heaven now,
Perhaps he doth in worship bow,
A white flame round bis foam-white brow
Shule, Shule, Shule, agrah !
I laugh to think of him like this,
Who once found all his, joy and bliss
Against my heart, against my kiss
Shule, Shule, Shule, agrah !
Star of my joy, art still the same
Now thou hast gotten a new name?
Pulse of my heart, mv Blood, my Flame
Shule, Shule, Shule, agrah !*
(•Move, move, move to me my heart’s love.)
OONA OF THE DARK EYES.
I have fared far in the dim woods,
And I have known sorrow and grief
And the incalculable years
That haunt the solitiudes.
Where now are the multitudes
Of the Field of Spears ?
Old tears
Fall upon them as rain.
Their eyes are quiet under the brown leaf.
I have seen the dead, innumerous :
I too shall he thus ;
And thou, Con gal, thou too shalt lie
Still and white
Under the starry sky,
And rise no more to any Field of Spears,
But, under the brown leaf,
Remember grief
And the old, salt, bitter tears.
And I have heard the crying of wind.
It is the crying that is in my heart ;
• Oona of the Dark Eyes, Oona of the Dark Eyes !
Ooona, Oona, Oona. Heart of my Heart 1
But there is only crying of wind
Through the silences of the sky,
Dews that fall and rise,
The faring of long years,
And the coverlet of the brown leaf
For the old familiar grief
And the old tears.
(From Poems and Dramas by Fiona Macleod.)
William Sharp Artist and Pot-
boiler
The secret of “Fiona Macleod” was let
out in a magazine article shortly after the
death of William Sharp five years ago. A
number of people had already concluded that
William and “ Fiona ” were one person, and
in 1899 The Daily Chronicle compared some
of the writings published over both names,
and asserted the identity of the authors.
Sharp’s persistent denial of anything more
than a cousinly relationship to “Miss
• Macleod ” kept up the mystery, which was
thickened at the time of Sharp’s death by
the suggestion of a strange dual personality
—a pot-boiling Dr. Jekyll linked with an
artistic Mr. Hyde. All this helped to create
an anticipatory interest in the biography
which has just been published by Heine-
mann. (
William Sharp: A Memoir, by his wife
(Sydney Book Club), turns out* to be an
interesting book, although “the mystery”
is not very mysterious. It contains many
letters from well-known writers, and a good
deal of self-revelation in Sharp’s own letters
and diaries.
Born in Scotland in 1855, of Scottish
parents (one of whom had a Swedish an-
cestor), Sharp was “a Viking in build, a
Scandinavian in cast of mind, and a Celt in
heart and spirit.” A Highland nurse fed
him with Gaelic tales and songs, and fairies
became as real to him as the angels were to
Blake. At school, where he said nothing
about his visions, he played games as
thoroughly as most boys, and ran away four
times. From 15 to 18 he sailed a good deal
about the Western Highlands and the
Hebrides; attended Glasgow University,
but did not take a degree ; and at 19 was
placed in a lawyer’s office. His health
broke down in 1875, and he came out to
Australia in a sailing ship. Some impres-
sions of the Victorian bush are recorded in
a story, The Sport of Chance, and in verses
which Sladen quoted in one of his antholo-
gies.
On returning to London he got a clerkship
in the City of Melbourne Bank, made
Rossetti’s acquaintance, and jotted down
lyrics in business hours. One evening at
Rossetti’s lasted till three in the morning—
“ I did not go to the office next day, as I did
not feel well.” On another occasion the
beauty of the morning and a desire to hear
the cuckoo made him deaf to the base call of
duty, and the bank manager had to tell him
that he did not suit the office.
Soon afterwards Rossetti died, and Sharp
was asked to write a memoir. Written
rapidly, and with enthusiasm, thp book
served its purpose, and Sharp decided to
rely upon literary work for the future.
Magazine articles, art criticism, sensational
stories for a boys’ paper, monographs on
Shelley, Heine and Browning, and a quantity
of verse poured from his pen. He also
edited Sonnets of This Century and other
compilations. It was a fairly strenuous life.
Here is the diary for three days in 1890:
Feb. 12th.—In first part of day wrote six
pages of Browning. Short London letter for Glas-
gow Herald. From 5 to 8 I wrote chap. 20 of
Basil Hope (novel). After dinner (between 9 and
12.30) wrote eight more pages of Browning.
13th.—Wrote 12 pages of Browning and chap.
21 of Basil Hope.
14th.—Wrote, in all, 18 printed pages of Brown-
ing, or, including quotations, 21.
One night, between 8 p.m. and 4 a.m. he
wrote eight poems in unbroken succession.
His diaries were kept for live or six weeks
at the beginning of each year, and then
abandoned.
W
Sharp was impetuous, worked or played
boisterously, and was femininely impres-
sionable. His literary career is a series
of influences. Maeterlinck’s early dramas
had a great effect upon him, and he was one
of the first to introduce the Belgian to the
British :
Reading these things of his (Maeterlinck’s) has
excited me to a high degree. It was the electric
touch I needed to produce my Dramatic Inter-
.hides, over which I have been brooding. . . .
When I issue the Dramatic Interludes I shall
send them forth under my anagram, H. P.
Si wa-trmill.
That is a feminine confession. The use of
pen-names was due to an inveterate love of
mystification, and in a slack interval, after a
visit to Walt Whitman in America, he pub-
lished a quarterly called The Pagan Review,
the whole contents of which were written
by Sharp under different pseudonyms. The
motto on the.cover was “Sic transit gloria
Grundi ”; but the Review passed out after
the first issue, and a copy was solemnly
buried in the garden.
As a foil to an ordinary long story that he
had in hand, he began Pharais, which was
to be “ full of the glamor of the mysterious.”
He had a keen interest in psychic pheno-
mena, and for a long time had desired to
work up the dreams of childhood into literary
shape. While writing this Celtic romance he
realised how much the feminine element
appeared in it and decided to issue it under
another pseudonym—“Fiona Macleod,” a
name that “ flashed ready made ” into his
mind Pharais and The JiLountain Lovers
met with critical approval, and by the time
The Sin-Eater and Other Tales was pub-
lished the Celtic clans were stirred to fervent
admiration. The Irish Literary revival was
then in full blast, and this new star from the
Highlands could not have chosen a better
time for rising,
It would not do to let the work of William
Sharp cease altogether, asthat would endanger
the secret of I iona who was soon
earning good dividends in fame and cash.
So, for 12 years, he had to work in two
shifts, as it were—one as William Sharp, the
literary journalist, and a more ticklish one
as “ Fiona Macleod.” It was an extraordi-
nary performance, and it is no wonder
that, in the first few years, “the author
was in a highly-wrought condition of men-
tal and emotional tension, which produced
great restlessness.” The tireless energy of
the man-woman survived two nervous’col-
lapses, and squeezed the utmost out of life
until the end of 1905, when he died in
Sicily—tired out.
Weininger’s theory of the dual sex ele-
ments in each person accounts for Sharp’s
case as it accounts for George Eliot’s. (It is
not reported that Sharp had any children.)
There was justification for the lies necessary
to preserve the anonymity of “ Fiona,” as
there was for those of the author of Waver-
ley. Chatterton, who had the measure of
his time, and knew that in mid-eighteenth
century there was no audience for original
romantic ballads, is excused for the more
pretentious Rowley fraud. s
The William Sharp work was for the day
and is already dead ; but some of “ Fiona
Macleod’s ” prose is of rare beauty, and is
likely to survive. Its weakness is in its
vagueness. The characters in the early
stories are embodied' emotions or dreams ;
sometimes lay figures with a drapery of
myth ; and the most human are veiled in
Celtic Gloom. The style became simpler as
“Fiona” developed, and much of the later
work has the charm of poetry.
On going over the seven volumes of the
complete edition of “Fiona’s” work, one
feels that there is no blood or bones in it;
that it is a tangle of moonlight, gray griefs,
white poppies, blue winds, green waves and
similar things, with here and there a piece
of pure music worth going a long way to find.
The unrhymed ‘‘Passion of Women,” with
other “runes” ©f a similar kind, are
freakish tours-de-force. The rhymed work is
less valuable than the prose, though many
of the lyrics make exquisite music.
“Great poetry,” Matthew Arnold has
said, “is made in the soul.” The best of
William Sharp’s work is not great ; but it
came from the soul of one who had a pas-
sionate love of poetry and who might have
said, in the words quoted by his wife from the
Kalemla :
The waves of the sea have spoken to me ; the
wild birds have taught me ; the music of many
waters has been my master.
tg Chantecler ’’ in English
Ge rtrude Hull’s translation of Rostand’s
bird play, which ran through Hampton’s
Maga., has now been published in book
form (Angus and Robertson).
The translator is already well known in
America for her version of Cyrano de Ber-
gerac, and has published two or three books
of lyrics and short stories. She has turned
the verse of Chantecler into very fair prose,
and attempted in only a few cases to give
metrical, equivalents for the purely lyrical
passages of the original. This is a stanza
from her rendering of the Ode to the Sun :
I praise thee, Sun ! Thou sheddest roses on the
air,
Diamonds on the stream, enchantment on the hill.
A poor dull tree thou takest and turnest to green
rapture,
O Sun ! without whose golden magic—things
Would be no more than what they are !
A good deal is lost £o the reader on receiving
such lines in exchange for :
•fe t’adore Soleil ! Tu mets dans Fair des roses
Des flarmnes dans la source, un dieu dans le
bmsson.
Tu prenda-un arbre obsour et tu l’apotheoses
O Soliel ! toi sans qui les ehoses
Ne seraient que ce qu’elles sont !
Each act of “Chantecler” is preceded by
a lyric which has not been translated at all.
But, in the body qf the work, Miss Hall has
managed to preserve most of the humor as
well as the sense of the original. This
passage from the scene on the Guinea Hen’s
“day,” when all crowd round the vpeacock
and hail him as “ Master,” is almost equal to
the French :
A Chicken': Master, what do you think of my
latest “ cheep ” ? (Suspense. Religious silence.)
The Peacock ( solemnly, Idling the word drop
slowly from his beak) : Definitive. (Sensation.)
Duck (trembling) : And my “Quack?” (Sus-
pense. )
The Peacock: Ultimate! ( Sensation .)
The Guinea Hen ( delighted , to The Hens\ :
I may say that it is at my Days most especially
he throws off these specimens of a verbal art
which might fairly be called——
The Peaco6k : Lapidary !
All the Hens ( rolling up their eyes) : Won-
derful !
A Hen [corning forward, faint with emotion) :
Master, high-priest of taste, what do you think of
my dress? (Suspense.)
The Peacock (after a glance) : Affirmative.
(Sensation. )
The Tufted Hen ( same business) : And my
bonnet? (Suspense.) ■
The Peacock : Absolute. ( Sensation .)
A Hen (to 'The Guinea Hen) : Your guest, my
dear, can fit an epithet!
The Guinea Men : Pontiff of the Unexpected
Adjective I call him !
The Peacock (distilling his words in a discord-
ant, haughty voice) : True it is that
The Guinea Hen : Ah, this is most pleasant,
most pleasant! He is going to talk to us.
The Peacock : —a Ruskin rather more re-
fined, I hope, than the earlier one, with a ta%t
The Guinea Hen : Very true! ’
The Peacock : —a tact for which I stand largely
in my own debt. I have constituted myself
Petronius-Priest and Msecenas-Messiah, volatile
volatiliser of words, and that, jewelled judge, 1
love by my cameos and filigrees of speech to repre-
sent the Taste of which I am the
PAtou : Oh, my poor head !
The Peacock (nonchalantly) : —shall I say
guardian ?
The Guinea Hen (effervescently) : Do say
guardian !
The Peacock: No. Thesmothetes. (Respect-
ful murmur of delight.)
This translation, if it does not give any
idea of Rostand’s poetry, will convey the
satire and the dramatic force of a play which
is above all things dramatic.
Poetry from the Deaf, Dumb and
Blind
Helen Keller is one of the most remark-
able women in the world. Deaf, dumb and
blind from infancy, she has acquired an
amazing amount of knowledge through her
remaining senses, and has written the story
of her life and her views of the world
in books which are amongst the triumphs
of optimism. It is difficult to imagine that
any of the charm of poetry could be con-
veyed to an intelligence deprived of the
principal senses ; yet Helen Keller seems to
have an appreciation of the melody of words,
and has written a poem which would be read
with interest even if one knew nothing of
the author’s circumstances.
The Chant of the Stone Wall (Angus and
Robertson) is in irregular, unrhymed lines,
which look like those of Whitman’s Leaves
of Ci'ass. The blind girl has walked by th
stone wall and spelled out its message:
Leagues upon leagues of sealed history awaitin j
an interpreter.
This is New England’s tapestry of stone,
Alive with memories that throb and quiver
At the core of the ages,
As the prophecies of old at the heart of God
word.
Gracious Time has glorified the wall.
And covered the historian stones with a mantle o :
green ;
The sunbeams flit and waver in the rifts,
Vanish and reappear, linger and sleep ;
Conquer with radiance the obdurate angles;
Filter between the naked rents and wind-bleachec
jags.
She finds the wall to be “ an Iliad of granite,
holding for her the story of the pioneers wh
built it, the Puritan founders of the Re
public, the soldiers who fought at Lexington
and Gettysburg, and of the time when—
Cleansed by tribulation and atonement
The broken nation rose from her knees.
And with, hope re-born in her heart set fort i
again
Upon the open road to ideal democracy.
4 j
Life’s Wallaby , by Sydney Partridge (Yaru
Press,-N. Sydney), is too slight a sketch to
deserve separate publication. Though the
cover design is attractive, the pamphle;
would make a better appeal as a specimen o:
printing if it were without the margina
“decorations.” Ambitious printers are
advised to look at the work of the Riccard
Press (P. L. Warner, London). Their Horace
a copy of which recently came to Sydney
is near the perfection of typographical art.
The severe beauty of the type makes the
pages look finer than the work of,the Kelm-
scott Press.
A ictor Daley’s At Dawn and Dusk having
been out of print for a while, Angus and
Robertson have re-issued it in their “ Snowy
River ” series at 5s. The new issue is
identical with the first—barring the title
page. Wine and Boses is promised within a
week or two.
Rpderic Quinn’s first and only novel,
Mostyn Stayne , has been re-published in
6d. edition. x
♦
Jean Sibi : —Marie Corelli has just pub-
lished an alleged prose-poem, in which
she lashes the Badness of the World and
the betes no ires of Corelli. The Devil’s
Motor is an allegory in the language
of hysteria and the fashion of nightmare.
Through the “ pome'” motors a person who
rushes about like a week-end tripper. Ac-
cording to Marie, this johnny
was clothed in black, and crowned with fire ; large
bat-like wings flared out on either side of him in
woven webs of smoke and flame, and his face was
whiteas a bleached bone. . . . Like glowing embers
his eyes burned in their enotmous sockets, shedding
terrifioglances through the star-strewn space—and
on his thin lips was a shadow of a smile more cruel
than hate, more deadly than despair.
That figure looks like a special pantomime
edition of the Earl of Brimstone. Yet he
is not the mixed god and dandy of The
Sorrows of Satan. He is a sort of Savonarola
with a fortissimo screech. As he honks over
peoples .and nations he cries aloud in this
frightful manner ;
. . . Spread wide the fame of the Anarchist and
the Courtesan, ye printing presses of the world !—
mock and revile the spirits of.the wise and true,
noise abroad the name of the Murderer and treat
the Poet with derision—give flattery to the rich
and scorn to the humble, teach nothing but the
wit of lying, and add venom to the tongue of
scandal—dig up the graves of the great and kill
the reputations of the brave and pure !
In a passage on Modernity’s frolics he howls
as follows ;
Feed and fatten yourselves with the lusts of
animalism till the cancer of Sin makes of you a
putrefaction and an open sore in the sight of the
sun !
The whole effort defeats itself by its over-
drawn anguish and exaggeration.


A
ace
For Guns, Rifles and all Sporting Requisites
try Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices.
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading 1 Gun,
“The Empire,’’ 12-pauge, Damascus Barrels, Choke
Bore, Bar Locks, Pistol Hand Stock £ 6 10s.
Hollis & Sons’ Special Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, Damascus
Barrels, both Choke Bore, Greener Cross Bolt, Engine Turned
Rib, Hammers below line of sight. Chambered for 2§ cases and
proved for all Nitro-Powdfcrs, Walnut Heart Stock, Pistol Grip,
neatly engraved .£lO 2s. 6d.
Scholefield's Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Left Choke, Bar Rebounding
Locks, Plain Hand Stock JB3 7*. 6d.
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading 1 Gun, 12-gauge, Twist
Barrels, Bar Locks, neatly finished ... ~. ... ... ... 775.
The Liege Arms Co. Hammerless duns, £4/18/-, £5/5/-
J. O. Mayne’s 12-Gauge Central Fire Double-barrel Breech-
loading Gun, Top Lever, Back Action Locks, Twist-Barrels, Snap
Fore-end, Solid Strikers, Non-Reflecting Rib, Walnut Stock, 77/-
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Twist Barrels,
Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Walnut Stock, Left Barrel Choke Bore,
Half Pistol, Hand Stock, £5/10/=
Scholefield’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Steel Barrels,
Greener Cross Bolt, Bar Locks, 90/-
Hollis 8b Sons’ Single-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Twist Barrels, Back
Action Rebounding Lock .. . ... 4s.
Blocked Leather Leg
o’ Mutton Gun Cover,
275.
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading' Gun, Top Lever,
12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Back Action, Rebounding Locks, Snap
Fore-end, Solid Strikers, Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock, Hammers
below line of sight ... ... 97*. 6d.
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Steel
Barrels, Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Half Pistol, Hand
Stock 17*. 6d.
Hollis ft Sons’ Hammerless Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
Top Lever, Damascus Barrels, Left Barrel Choke, Engine Turned Rib,
Greener Cross Bolt, Automatic Safe, Neatly Finished Walnut
Stock JBll 17s. 6d.
The illustrations of Guns on
this page are in every instance
drawn from photographs of
the actual weapon, while the
prices are
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
Write for Illustrated Price
List of Guns and Rifles,
posted free on application.
Scholefield’s 12-Gauge Double-barrel Hammerless Gun, B.S.A. Steel Barrels, Extended Rib, Top Lever,
Spring Fore-end, Safety Block, neatly Engraved, Left Barrel Choke, Nitro proved ... ... ... .£8 10s.
W. W. Greener’s 12-Gauge Double-barrel Breech-loading Hammerless Gun, Steel Barrels,
Extended Rib with Treble Bolt on Cross Bolt Principle, Pistol Hand Stock, Deeley-edge Fore-end Fastener,
neatly engraved, both Barrels Choke Bore 10s.
W. W. Greener’s Special Pigeon Hammerless Gun £26 10s.
Small Bore Breech-
Loading Guns.
Useful to Orchardlsts and others
for Destroying Vermin.
SUITABLE FOR LADIES’ USE.
The Tholet Arms Co.’s Collector
Qun, Single-barrel, 410-gauge,
33/6 ; Double-barrel, 47/6.
HOLLIS’ GUNS.
Single - barrel Breech - loading
Qun, 410-gauge Collector, 53/-
Double - barrel Breech - loading
Qun, 410-gauge Collector, Side
Lever, 87/6 ; Top Lever, £6/10/-
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Dreech-loading
Gun, “The Panmure,” Greener Cross Bolt, Sieman’s
Martin Steel Barrels, extended Rib, hammers below
line of sight, Left Barrel Choke Bore, good Steel
Rebounding Locks, Half Pistol Hand Stock, flat file cut
rib. Snap Fore-end, Walnut Heart Stock, Nitro-proof,
and chambered for 2| cases £6.
Hollis & Sons’ 12-gauge Double-barrel Breech-loading
Gun, “ The Commonwealth,” Top Lever, Percussion
Fence, three Pin Bridle Locks, Left Barrel Choke Bore, Half
Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock, Deeley-edge Fore-end, Scroll
engraved, Engine-turned Rib, Greener Cross Bolt ... JB9.
Hollis & Sons’ Double-Barrel Breech-loading 1 Gun,
“ The Stirling,” 12-gauge, Damascus Barrels, Left
Choke, Bar Action Locks, Extended Rib, Greener
Cross Bolt, Deelev-edge Fore-end, Walnut Stock, highly
finished 15s.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
BricK.field Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
v Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
lap
lii
j s&Sai
rr
rc
rr
K
suits
-ffra
S'Pa
:-3«
!V
Sli
Si;
;
fu
im
al iL
I.M , Wfe a&Jl£* -*^-431. , 1WK?
A9B
HURT
r f ,f Y#
3»
nii
-A~x- _ J
ft
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
'2B Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects :
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet "S” and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors). Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors’, or any other examination.
S. SMITH & SON’S
1
/
w-
(LTD.)
“STRAND”
WATCHES
ARE THE
BEST VALUE
OBTAINABLE
Special Terms to
Shippers.
18 ct. Gold English Lever, £l6 16s. Od.; Crystal, £l3 15s. Od.
Sterling Silver „ £6 6s. Od.; „ £5 ss. Od.
■Write for Catalogue WATCHES, Clocks, Jewellery, Speed Indicators.
HOLDERS OF SIX ROYAL WARRANTS.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LAI T LAROLA
Invaluable
for fhe SKIN
in HOT
orCOLD
climafes.
Removes all
IRRITATION
and TAN;
Lait
a/ro
Reg?.
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAIT LAROLA
fg
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND City Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the ®® cl i r ' g .
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the a
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTERto ■ -
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying:
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine. .
Directors—The Hon. A. \Y. Sleeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman :
Short Esq. : The Hon. .lames Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, ,
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary-
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat ?
4- A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
"A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N.S.W. Branch Office : 522 George Street, Sydney.
sfdg
m
Cured after every Treatment Failed
with
CLEMENTS Tome;
if YOU WISH TO BE CURED, READ THIS LETTER.
The medicine that saves and lengthens human life as
this one does; that brings back the health so long
despaired of ; that proves by restored vigor and mental
energy that professional verdicts have not been fulfilled,
and that out of years of pain 'and suffering men and
women recover and enjoy life, surely this is the medicine
for the people in every rank and walk of existence.
People who are ill, sickly, weak-nerved, etc., should read
this letter to a great medicine. The writer can be seen
at Rutherglen amy day, after being in four hospitals and
having no less than seventeen medical examinations.
On 19fch May, 1910, Mr. Downes again writes to Clements Tonic Ltd.
“ I have sent my photo., as you desire. I wish I could do
more to advertise Clements Tonic to sufferers of ill=health, for
scores of men and women came to me the last three months
from far and near to see me, and wanted to know if Clements
Tonic cured me. lam thankful I can assure them all, without
fear or doubt, it has. I can say that also to the hundreds of
people who know the truth, when I was ill in Clunes, Ballarat,
Wangaratta and Corowa, and to those who had no hope for me.
But, thanks to this medicine, I am here before them all this day a
cured man. I wish I could show you in person the look of surprise
many persons have (especially those connected with the hospitals)
who meet and see me alive.
Great Southern Consuls Mine, Rutherglen, Vic. ** (Signed) PATRICK DOWNES/*
The herald of good and lasting health, this medicine must be a part of your home. What Is
better than health ? Therefore ensure it. It relieves indigestion, weakness, constipation weak
nerves, poor sleep or appetite. The Rev. J. Williams, for 11 years pastor of the Woollangabba
Congregational Church, Brisbane, says“ It produces a natural sleep. What can be better
of a medicine than that ? ” ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SEEL. IT


What
About
That
Dandruff?
Pll*
Us
a 3*s33ssS*iis
5r«S
There is just this much about it:
Dandruff is a germ disease, is
most untidy, annoying, and leads
to baldness. When chronic, it
is very stubborn, but surely
yields to thorough and energetic
treatment. All germs must be
destroyed, the scalp must be
restored to health. Here is the
remedy: Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ask your doctor about using it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr, J. C. Ayer &. Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
dsf
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Hays' Free
Trial. Bast British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Keslsting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
1B SA. Free Wheels. Flyer or Brook’s
Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3mlO to £9
I Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient pnslage, for
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dtpt. 280. LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent, 167 Clarenoe St., Sydney.
4
WINCHESTER
Always
Reliable !
As is the case with
all ‘ ELEY * Goods,
the accuracy of the
Eley '44 Winchester
Central Fire Car-
tridge is such as
should commend it
to the attention of
critical sportsmen.
‘ Eley Smokeless pop-
ular low-priced cartridge.
‘Eley 22 Rim Fire Car -
tridge’ - black and smoke-
less powder.
All Eley Cartridges
are made in London
OfGunmakers
See the
name
‘ Eley'
on all
car-
tridges
gs
g
dsf
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
drunkenness cured.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not a vice, but a disease—happily one that is curable.
DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.) is a certain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAW'S ESTABLISHMENTS : 51 Russell Street,
Melbourne; 1161 Hay Street. Perth, W. A. [1
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 Georgt; Street, Sydney.
WIiUMQSS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE—
of “Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, JJROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
44 OXJR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. WO CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
FOR \
\ all\
TIMES\
AND
ALL \
\ CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Hopiic k’s
Malted Milkisan
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
sick-
ness
*
At \
break-
fast
time or
supper time N.
Hot'lick’s.
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking,
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82f, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horliok’a Malted Milk Co. Slouch, Eng.
1004 B
Varicose
Veins
Cured!
EPOR centuries, man —and
woman also, unfortun-
ately—have been sorely
afflicted with Varicose Veins in
the legs, and until the last few
years the only means of afford-
ing even temporary, if painful,
relief has been the surgeon’s
knife.
Now all is changed, the old
methods, give way to the
new, and The Vecsey Method of
Treatment, by external appli-
cation only, painlessly and
rapidly cures even the worst
cases. The success of this
method has startled the medical
world and is being applauded
on every side.
With no detention from your or-
dinary duties, and no necessity to
lay up, this treatment offers won-
derful advantages.
Ulcers that have defied specialists
for years have been rapidly and per-
manently cured by this method.
CONSULTATION FREE.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins,
Varicose Ulcers or Eczema,
CALL, and interview our Chief
Consultant. He will explain the
treatment to you and will advise you
free of charge. Ifyoucannot
call, send 2d. stamp for freeillus- *
trated book giving full particulars.
Hours: 9 a.m. tosp.m. daily. (
The Veesey Varix-arium,
104 Linden Court, Sydney
(corner Castlereagh and Market St*.)
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
GOLCRYST
THE HEALTH SALT
for all
BLOOD DISORDERS
RHEUMATISM
IS SOLD EVERYWHERE IN
y,6°& I ! Pkts.
Agents in N.S.W.—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney.
Proprietors—ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured witho\it c qperation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for -our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
gds
Zaw Points
fi- Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this. WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing' your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA,
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
f,. EYE <
°INTMEHT
CURES
/"'iHEAP EDITION of ON THE HOP.
L Price 2/6. Postage. N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 Georg®
Street, Sydney.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Beach Girl.
Glossed with the rose and gold of day,
A glad warmth on her like the sheen
On wind-blown grass, her mood is gay
And votive ; men all own her queen
Of breathing things, and her obey.
Bare-bosomed as a nymph she lies,
Ungirdled, in the warm embrace
Of sun-gods; mystery her eyes,
Enchantment her wave-wetted face;
All honorworthy, fragrant, wise.
Her songs are freedom and her dreams
True lyric . . . dreams like unto those
Of Grecian maids; her young life schemes
For ecstasy of flesh, and grows
Sweet, lustrous sweet, with summer beams.
Her woman’s heart with glory fills,
Beats fast with mystery of love
Revealed to magic music, thrills,
Loveworthy, with the rhythm of
Brown beaches, green and russet hills.
The queen of breathing things ! Her strong
Tense body beautiful as God
Meant flesh to be ! Destined ere long
To mother race, the wise gods nod
Approval and hark to her song ;
And men, impregned with new spring-fire,
Look on her wild, mysterious grace
With chivalry . . . look, and aspire
To mates!)ip, as upon her face
Shines in full glory, chaste desire !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
Gossamer.
“Will you come into my parlor?”
Said the Lady to the Fool.
“ It’s the daintiest little parlor,
And I’ll keep your heart to school.
You shall have some cakes and comfits,
And a tartlet now and then,
And you’ll not have to be jostled
By the other gentlemen.”
So he went into the parlor
Of the Lady, did the Fool,
And she taught the things they do teach
In that ancient sort of school.
He learned that truth is shabby,
And that lies are fine and sweet,
And that honor is the cheapest
Of the rubbish in the street.
“You are sometimes rather horrid,”
Said the Lady to the Fool.
“To monopolise the mistress
Of a well-conducted school
Is a thing that’s never dreamt of
By true gentlemen—oh, fie !”
Then she wrung his soul with pleasure,
And she hung it out to dry.
So the poor Fool shivered, naked,
In the basement, while above
He heard the honeyed murmur
Of a voice he’d learned to love.
There were kisses in the hallway ;
Some new pupil come to school.
“ Will you come into my parlor ? ”
Said the Lady to the Fool!
MAORILAND.
FKANK MOETON.
King Solomon.
Of old, in his glory arrayed,
Spake Solomon : “ Sooth, I declare
Three things are a wonder to me.
The way of a man with a maid.
The way of a bird in the air ,
The way of a ship on the sea.”
His temple with gold was ablaze,
With sapphires and rubies his crown,
His robes purple-hued, silken-soft;
And ever loud harps in amaze
His glory, his wit, his renown,
In jubilant tones raised aloft.
In gardens he hearkened the dove,
Or the nightingale new from the south,
Or the bees humming low in the flowers,
What time in the arms of his love
(His mouth as red fire on her mouth),
He swooned through the roseate hours.
Oh ! richly his banquet was set,
Midst lilies a-dioop on their stems,
And roses and lights manifold—
Red wine the round rims making wet
Of chalices studded with gems,
And fashioned of silver and gold.
And yet there was woe in the land
Of Solomon, lord of his age—
Even then ... even then ... there was woe !
What to them—to the outcast and banned —
Was the poet, the King and the sage—
His glamor, his glitter, his show?
They craved but a morsel to eat;
He heard them, but yielded no sign
That their cry woke a chord in his breast;
Was himself not as filling as meat,
His glory as warming as wine,
His wisdom as soothing as rest ?
When harps hymned his praise joyously,
And echoing on through the land
Loud laud of his majesty ran,
And he bent not his ear to the plea
Of the poor . . . did he all understand
The way of a man with a man ?
N.S.W.
RODERIO QUINN.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANUED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:-
In Cretonne, £4 45.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
g
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
80 near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent ltotary Celeste Stop.
Price
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Kxtra quality, with 3 sets of Heeds, Celeste and Orjran Stop,
15-fold liellows with steel corners. Price £t 7s, 6(1- 1
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aceord.eona Iroqi 7/4) to IQO/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and qll kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
sdfg
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club ant! Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
WITH THE EADIE COASTER
Altec) to your Bicycle you can ride down the steepest hill in perfect safety
The Radio Coaster is the coaster with
THE SIMPLE BRAKE
The hralce with few parts and no complications, which is instantly brought into
action by the slightest backward pressure of the pedals* The
EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER
PMIINM all the above efficiency with the additional advantage of a variable
Bear Both are manufactured in the famous B.S A. factories and are fully d s-
cribed in the new Australasian edition of the B.S. A. Handbook. Send a Post
Card for a free copy to
D. Y. RENNIE
SADIE
CDASrtt
Representing
B S.A Co. Ltii.
6 Stock Exchange
Building
MELBOURNE
-S.*o-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built ot genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop-Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTL.ES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern (&L S ons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield
Hill, Sydney.
New Necßlets
that must appeal to all lovers
of beautiful jewellery and
good judges of value !
By fa** the most beautiful and extensive collection
o/* exquisite NecKlets imaginable is now at “ The
Treasure House.** Much of tbis rare jewellery
recently arrived, all excelling in quality, design and
werKmanship anything we have yet seen, and repre-
senting the most favored styles at present in London.
Personal or postal orders receive prompt, efficient
attention at all times*
Fia© Amethyst Necklet, two large dark Amethysts
and three Pearl-set leaves on knife-edge bar,
Isct. Gold, £4/10/-.
Dainty Garnet Necklet, Drop design, set five good-
quality Garnets and four Half-Pearls on knife-
edge bar, 9ct. Gold, £2/5/-.
Elegant Peridot Necklet, set five large Peridot
drops and small Half-Pearls, Leaf and Scroll
design, 15CL Gold, £7/10/-.
Exquisite Green Tourmaline Necklet, set three
large Tourmalines on knife-edge bar, with
three Green Tourmalines, Shamrock drops.
9Ct. Gold, £4/17/6.
Exclusive design Necklet, set five dark Amethysts,
two whole Pearls and 16 Half-Pearls, fancy
Scroll and Drop style, 15CL Gold, £5/12/6.
Very effective Malachite Necklet, set seven large
pear-shaped Malachite drops on fine link
chain, 9ct. Gold, £4.
New style throw-over Necklet, set with two Tur-
quoise Matrix Drops and two Baroque Pearls,
9Ct. Gold, £l/10/=.
Magnificent Necklet, set one large Pink Oval
Tourmaline and two Pear-shaped Drops, with
eight small White Pearls between on knife-
edge bars, 15Gb gold, £9/10/=
%#, ... .?vV;
•" v: - r ; '
Mmss&mK
k N Am- *•.
ijyi
srs
u \
: :: ' t >K '4
'■!
i &sr-
,VVS, V* 5 ;
rtS.' .
WMZM
.
i o 1 *
3
y
wmmmm
V •
»• ,
\£>
/,•••
//
\v
Vs
.V
Beautiful Peridot and Pearl-set Necklet, Fern-leaf
and True Lover’s Knot design, isct. Gold, £6.
Very fine Aquamarine Necklet, set seven large fine
quality Aquamarines and seven Half-Pearls
(Drop style) on knife-edge bars, gold,
£5/5/-
Very pretty Green Peridot and Pearl-set 1501. Gold
Necklet, Leaf and Scroll design, £4.
STEWART DAWSON $ CO.
(Australia), Ltd
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1614.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 1911.
Pkick 6d.
SLEEPING AT HIS HOMEWORK.


The Bullrtin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Mnsgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
ler Annum ... ... ' ... £i s 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly' "" 0 7 0
-J'Vdirect to Tiik Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
blnlLmgs sterling you can have. Tiik Bulletin posted
i egularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bullktik would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by takino some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by iiame. “ The Editor, Bullktik,” is the proper
superscription for "ropy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
.7lie contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce, or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby exuressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 8000 xvords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confl-
Thk Bulletin wall return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktik
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White,
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for diiikct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid fur same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The coiulitions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktik is forwarded direct to agents on account
<of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide— at U/G per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Uolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationeiy Co., Vancouvei, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A. —Isserlis A-, Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6‘ftn. * lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired. ~
THU USD AY, JANUARY 19, 1911.
THE FINANCIAL PROBLEM AHEAD.
Assuming, however hard it may be to do so, that
it is absolutely necessary to close the Australian
Parliament for 10 months at a stretch so that a
vain Prime Minister may display himself, first in
South Africa and then at the coronation in
London, there is at least one demand which Aus-
tralia may reasonably make upon the Fisher
Government. It has a right to ask that that body
will think hard over its future programme during
this lengthy spell. For next session, unless it
shirks the situation in a shameful fashion, it will
be up against the,great problems of its life and of
Australia’s history. So far, it has only done the
easy things—the very easy things. To pass legis-
lation of the kind that requires no great cash
expenditure and no grappling with knotty prob-
lems is not difficult, especially when the Govern-
ment has a reliable majority and its programme
has been prepared for it far in advance. The
Fisher Ministry passed a lot of that sort of legis-
lation ; but when it struck a real difficulty it
shirked. It crawled down abjectly over the Aus-
tralian capital, and it pacified the banking interest
and the old Tory brigade by abandoning the com-
pulsory clauses of its Australian Notes Bill. It
got over the trouble of finding money for the final
payments to the States under the Braddon clause
by borrowing part of the gold which it received
in return for notes issued. It got over the diffi-
culty of deciding how to invest the gold received in
exchange for notes by not deciding. It had a clear
and positive mandate from the people to take over
the State debts, but that involves a complicated
Eroblem owing to the widely varying amount per
ead of these debts, and the Ministry which
tackled the problem would require either wonder-
ful ability to satisfy all the State Governments or
sufficient courage to be indifferent whether they
were satisfied or not. The Fishkr Government
hung the business up, neither taking over the
debts nor explaining how it meant to take them
over. It resumed the Northern Territory on
paper, but it did nothing definite with the Terri-
tory’s debt, and it didn’t settle the route of the
railway to Port Darwin, nor did it resolve how to
raise the money either for the Port Darwin
line or the line to Kalgoorlie. So the Fisher
Government has close ahead of it more and bigger
financial problems than all its predecessors met
with in all the time since the Commonwealth
began. The prolonged shutting-up of Parliament
was excused by the plausible Attorney-General on
the plea that the Government had already done a
great deal—that it had ‘‘partially exhausted its
mandate” from the country. As regards the
number of measures passed, that is quite correct;
as regards the importance of them, it has hardly
made a visible dint or impression on its mandate.
* * * *
The amount of money that will presently be
required is enormous, for there are works ahead
that it would be a national crime to postpone any
longer. They must either be built out of loans or
out of revenue. The Fisher party is pledged
against the nefarious borrowing policy, and it has
dropped no hint to the effect that it has changed
its views on this matter. If it has changed its
views, and if it really intends to borrow, its
chance of getting the money is not so gorgeous as
it might be, for the State Governments have
started out on a new loan jag, which is likely
to seriously deplete the market before tlie
much-postponed Australian Parliament resumes
business at the old address. And if it in-
tends to borrow, it will be up against the
fact that it must acquire some control over future
State loan-mongering, lest it should strike a snag
later on and be left with two half-finished trans-
continental lines on its hands, and no cash, and a
money market that wouldn’t even look at Aus-
tralian securities. That matter naturally raises
again the question of the assumption of the State
debts; it is a ghost which won’t be laid and a
matter which obtrudes everywhere. The Ministry
might have made the way much more clear if it
had courageously based its note issue on the
Canadian banking system ; in that case, it would
have had 10 or 12 millions on which to found a
big conversion and redemption operation, and
such a sum would have smoothed away a multi-
tude of difficulties and objections. Having taken
the line of least resistance in the paper money
matter, it has no 10 or 12 millions.
* * * *
If, on the other hand, the Ministry proposes to
adhere to its safe and honest non-borrowing policy,
the fact looms up that it isn’t accumulating any
fund with which to make a beginning with its
costly public works. It will need new revenue,
and it isn’t getting new revenue, nor has it ex-
plained how it means to get it. A revision
of the tariff might have done something,
but as • Andrew Fisher wanted to get
away, first to South Africa and then to
London, there was no time to revise the
tariff. If any new taxation scheme is ready when
the belated Parliament meets, it is likely to be the
beginning of 1912 before it becomes law, and well
on towards 1913 before it begins to yield much
revenue. That suggests that it may be the begin-
ning of 1914 before any serious work is done upon
the two railways on which, a very few years
hence, the very existence of Australia may| de-
pend. If the Government has, at the very last-
moment, to appoint a dilatory royal commission to
find out whether the mono-rail system has really
arrived, and whether the old two-rail line is
really obsolete, the beginning of real work
may be even later. An earnest inquiry into
this matter is more important to Australia just
now than a dozen coronations. And when the
building of the transcontinental lines is really
taken in hand, the whole question of Australia’s
multifarious railway gauges must come up for
settlement, or else the Federal lines will be shorn
of half their usefulness. Andrew Fisher’s views
about South African union were interesting—
almost thrilling, in fact. But if Andrew Fisher
had stayed at home and devised a good working
view about Australian railway disunion, he would
have been a more valuable citizen,
* * * *
It may be brutal to throw the brick of criticism
at a Government which, with all its faults, has
done more than any of its predecessors. But
it was created that it might do more, and the
occasion demands that it should do more. Aus-
tralia is aware that the Anglo-Jap treaty expires
in four years; that if Japan should then join a
hostile combina,tion the empire will almost cer-
tainly lose its supremacy at sea; that Nippon
has already made a treaty of friendship with
Russia in order to guard it from rear attack
if it should be employed elsewhere; that it
seems to be busy clearing up outstanding
problems in Manchuria and getting its hands
free; and that there are bitter complaints
that the vanguard of Japanese settlement,
in the shape of the usual crowds of ex-soldiers
bringing their rifles among their luggage, has now
irrupted as far south as New Caledonia. All these
things suggest the need of haste, and even if
there were no definite'enemy in sight it is ad-
mitted on all hands that the North, in its present
condition, is a danger, and against that danger a
coronation is no entrenchment. And instead of
making haste, a feckless Government sits down
for a longer delay than usual. It would be some
compensation if the extra interval were devoted
to the thinking out of gigantic schemes to meet
the emergency ahead, but the absence of the head
of the Government makes it probable that there
will be even less thinking done than usual. It is
a waste of time which is assuredly precious and
which may be priceless, and the waste is a mere
foolish sacrifice to one man’s vanity.
A LAND OF MAGNIFICENT DISTANCES
Last year was a great time for the building trade
of Sydney. In the course of 12 months more than
£5,000,000 was spent on new buildings, or on .the
reconstruction of old ones, within the metropolitan
area, and within the last four years the expendi-
ture has been at least £19,000,000. These are big
figures, but then the N.S.W. metropolis is swel-
ling visibly. And Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and
Brisbane age similarly on the up-grade, though not
all Of them with the same energy. Unfortunately,
the swelling of Sydney has only aggravated cer-
tain of that city’s troubles. There is still no main
railway through the city, no suburban railway
so far as the principal suburbs are concerned, no
overhead city railway, no underground city rail-
way, no bridges across the harbor, no tunnels
under the harbor, no new bridges or tunnels over
or under any of the inlets of the harbor, and no
widening of the streets that really require widen-
ing—those that carry the bulk of the congested
traffic. The great increase of population which
all this building implies only increases the con-
gestion, and hastens the date when reconstruction
will be inevitable; also, it addsmillionsto the cost of
the inevitable reconstruction. Yet there is no news
of any comprehensive scheme of reconstruction. In
these days “town-planning” has become the
name of a new art. Three kinds of cities are now
recognised. There is the one that grew almost
anyhow, streets and all, like Sj'dney. There is
the one where the streets were carefully devised
on a wide, straight system, and then the town was
left to grow anyhow, like Melbourne. In those
two descriptions of cities the noxious trades may
happen to congregate almost anywhere; the resi-
dential quarters way happen to be any where, accord-
ing to the accident of land sales and the devices
of land-jobbers; the finest site, like the Rocks
district of Sydney, may chance to become a region
of cheapboarding-houses, threepenny barsand push
riots because it is nobody’s business” to interfere ;
and the direction in which the city will grow no
one can foretell. And then there is the planned
city, in which the scheme of construction is always
kept many years ahead of current events. It is
the work of an architectural despot. It knows in
advance which way it will grow, and it doesn’t
expand at the caprice of the jerry-builder or the
speculator. But this is a digression, and has
really nothing to do with the case.
* * * *
4s already mentioned, within the last four
years some £19,000,000 or more have been spent
on buildings in Sydney and its suburbs. The
S. M. Herald reports that during that period
19,904 structures have been erected—ll 26 in the
city proper and 18,838 in the suburbs. The same
paper estimates that these represent accommoda-
tion for 100,000 extra inhabitants, and as, in addi-
tion to all this building, the number of unoccu-
pied premises has visibly diminished, it seems
a not-wildly-uureasonable inference that there are
100,000 extra inhabitants—perhaps more. If this
is so, and if there is a fair semblance of accuracy
about the estimates of the increase of population
for the entire State, it would seem that, m recent
years, somewhere between the half and the whole
of the new population had settled in Sydney.
Certainly there is no other town in the State with
a building boom, or any decent semblance of a
building boom, on hand. Yet Sydney is no more
remarkable an instance than Adelaide, where,
despite energetic building, the rush for accommo-
dation has become so great that fees are some-
times paid for advance information about desirable
residences that are about to become vacant, and
the person who is going to quit his premises sells
the news like any other commodity.
* * * «
For defence purposes Australia is, nominally,
a land of magnificent distances. It is supposed
to be like Russia, which may be weak for attack,
but which, by reason of its vast, gaunt, bleak
mileage, is found almost impregnable when it
stands on the defensive. Unfortunately, just by
reason of such circumstances as the 19,964 new
buildings recently erected in and around Sydney,
Australia isn’t, for practical purposes, a land
of any great distances at all. It is only
necessary for an enemy to capture two or three
scraps of earth which, in the aggregate, wouldn’t
amount to the area of Belgium, the smallest toy
kingdom in Europe, and he would almost own
Australia. That is to say, he would own a huge
proportion of its portable wealth, almost all its
shipping, almost all its commerce, almost all its
manufactures, all its railway centres, and all its
machinery of government. Also, he would hold
as hostages rather niore than a third of its popula-
tion—unless a third of the population took to the
hills and became homeless and hungry. This
Belgium of ours, on which so much depends, has
been carefully planted on the coast, so that
the magnificent distances won’t help it;
they will rather tell against the rein-
forcements which will attempt to come to its
assistance. The enemy must arrive by sea, so
nearly everything we have is planted on the sea-
coast for his convenience. It will be a great
assistance to him if he can take the most valuable
part of Australia without getting out of gun
range of his ships; and in that matter also we
have obliged him. Thus 10,0u0 invaders covered
by a fleet could do more to take Sydney than
100,000, or perhaps 200,000, could to take Lith-
gow ; and, on the other hand, it is quite probable
that 10,000 Australians could do more to defend
Lithgovv than 100,000 could to defend Sydney. In
the attack on Sydney the enemy could use all
his soldiers and all his fleet; in the attack
on Lithgow he could use not a single ship, and
only such part of his laud forces as had not been
lost on the march or were not required to guard
95 miles of road—much of it very difficult road.
And Lithgow could be defended without a fleet, or
after the fleet had been lost, while such a thing is
hardly possible in the case of Sydney—or Mel-
bourne, or Adelaide, or Perth, or Hobart. In the
way of so fixing things that the invader can strike
the heaviest blow, and achieve the biggest success
and the biggest reward, with the smallest possible
force and the least possible risk, Australia has
d one wonders. It hardly begins even now to
realise what wonders it has done.
* * * *
In an island Commonwealth like Australia
foreign commercemust concentrate by the seashore.
But there is no reason why all the machinery of
government, more than two-thirds of the manu-
factures, the great bulk of the cash, all the im-
portant railway centres, and an unprecedentedly
large proportion of the population should also be
there. Still less is there reason why every effort
should be made to concentrate them at one or two
points on the shore so that almost the whole out-
fit of a big State can be captured in one engage-
ment and held by one garrison. A certain un-
pleasant Roman wished that all the human race
had one neck for convenience of execution,
but the human race didn’t oblige him. Australia,
judging by appearances, would have obliged him
to the best of its ability. When an enemy gets
command of the sea and cuts off supplies from
abroad, then the invaded country must depend
for practically all the things that are essential to
defence, from cannon down to boots, on local
factories. And in Australia, if an enemy can
occupy a few square miles of ground —very
much exposed ground, and lying directly
under the guns of his ships—he can almost
wholly stop the supply of goods of local manu-
facture ; or, rather, lie can use the supplies for
his own benefit and leave the Australian army
without. Also, when the coastal cities are taken
an absurdly large section of the Australian army
must either stay at home to look after its women
and children, or leave them as hostages with the
enemy, or chase them into the bush to camp
miserably under trees. What effect that circum-
stance will have on the muster of the Australian
army no one can tell in advance.
# * * *
In time of invasion a dozen far-inland manufac-
ing towns would probably be worth more to Aus-
tralia than 200,000 armed men. Their existence
would mean that, even after months—perhaps
years—of non-success, the country might still
have the means to fit out an army, and
might still have supplies for its civil popu-
lation. They would make for almost inter-
minable resistance instead of early collapse.
Tlie would turn our magnificent distances to
account, for if the places where the back of the
defence could be broken were 300 or 400 miles in-
land, instead of on the shore, the enemy would have
to do an almost hopeless amount of walking to
achieve liis fell purpose. And the occupation of
three or four coastal cities wouldn’t then mean the
capture of two-fifths of the population, as
it is liable to do now. There is no sane
or logical reason why Australia shouldn’t
have inland manufacturing cities —on the
Murrunibidgee, Murray, Darling, Snowy, Roper,
Victoria and other rivers. Other manufactur-
ing countries have such things, and Australia
could do the same. Unhappily, it has always
been the crazy policy of most of the Australias to
discourage, by a nefarious system of differential
railway rates, manufactures anywhere except at
the State capitals. This has been done so success-
fully that few industries save butter factories ever
started anywhere else, and of these few some are
very small and some are very dead. In Melbourne,
the city lias even attempted to absorb some of the
butter business.
* * * * •(
Australia, as already remarked, is a land of
magnificent distances, but not in the sense which
enabled Russia to defy Napoleon I. and many
other enemies, and which helped so wonderfully
to eke out the resistance of the Transvaal. Their
strong point was that an enemy couldn’t even pre-
tend to have conquered until he took Moscow and
Pretoria, and the enemy had to do a heart-
breaking tramp from any possible frontier before
lie got there. Our Moscow and our Pretoria are
liable to be surprised 48 hours or less after we learn
that war has really commenced, and then'it will
be a heart-breaking tramp for our reinforcements
when they try to get them back. The distances
are there all right, but so much depends
on whether we or the other fellows have
to cover them. Australia has spread a table for
the enemy on the shore, and put on it everything
it could raise, and everything he could want. It
has so fixed things that within the first week of
the campaign it may find itself like the German
Empire if Prussia were lost; like the Venetian
republic minus Venice; like “Hamlet”, without
Hamlet and the Ghost. These are the reasons
why The Bulletin doesn’t enthuse so much as
some papers do when it learns that 19,964 new
buildings have suddenly gone up in an overgrown,
undefended coastal city. It would rather hear of
a great boom and a lavish building of factories along
the Darling or Snowy or Murrumbidgee.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tragedy of McGowen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Act 11. Scene I.
An open space before the Castle of Macquarie.
Flourish. Enter McGowen, crowned as King
James 1.. Lords Representative, Knights Re-
porter, Courtiers, Voters, Knaves, Clowns, etc.
K. James:
The airs are pleasant; ’tis a large, full day,
Pregnant with promise of such victory
As soon shall crown with laurels new achieve-
ments.
A Knight Reporter :
My liege, I crave your Highness to vouchsafe
Some private word that shall determine here
Which battle hath your favor.
IC. James :
It is well.
By royal proclamation presently
We shall determine what till now is hid—
Our policy and will.
Flourish. Enter, Herald of Fat.
H. of Fat :
Gracious my lord,
They whose behest I serve entreat your aid
To ward from off their swelling waistcoatbands
The fierce encroachment of the Australian
wolf,
Who howls for larger power. The warlike
hosts
That battle for the small States irritant
Desire your league and counsel.
K. James :
What we will
Shall shortly be made known. Unreasoned
haste
Hath still confusion for her bedfellow.
Remain in peace, and shortly our intent
Shall to your puissant masters be made known.
Enter Herald of Australia.
H. of Australia :
Australia’s Federation greets your grace !
Pledged by strict vows and solemn covenant,
In bonds of Labor and the people’s weal,
My masters claim the aid of all your spears
In the great battle that grows imminent
Through all our borders.
K. James:
To my solemn vow
My high soul still is bound eternally
By close-linked chains of honor. Rest you
fair;
Our royal will shall shortly make you glad.
H. of Fat :
My lord, bethink you of our small State
Frights,
Battered and torn by every referendum !
H. of Australia :
My lord, Australia waft A your present word.
E’en now the trumpet sounds the call to
arms!
K. James :
The call to arms ! My soul within me thrills
As at the war-horse neighing. Arm, arm,
arm !
H. of Australia (aside):
Why, this is well and kingly. I had fears
Some traitor whiteness lurked within his
blood.
K. James :
My lords, our path is clear ; the larger call
Of duty shrills its trumpet in our ears.
Labor hath found a voice and not a groan,
And, like the clamant thunder of the sea,
Our high souls answer make. We will away.
A Voter :
Whither, my liege ?
K. James :
Why whither me with whither ?
I have discharged my vow ; the word is said.


The Hurried Fowl.
Before the end of the month the local government
elections will be upon us, and there is now no time to lose
if municipal affairs are to be kept free from political bias,
and managed on a strictly business basis. The lists of
selections show how determined Labor is to carry out its
threat to sweep the municipal polls as it has shown its
strength in Commonwealth and State affairs. We must
admit that we can see no justification for this crusade,
and if it should prove successful the results could hardly
prove other than disastrous. Wherever power is divorced
from responsibility there lurks a hidden danger. In
Commonwealth and State matters this is not imme-
diately perceived, because the channels of communication
are complex ; and we therefore usually have to wait for
some years before the evils of a doctrinaire Labor Admin-
istration fully reveal themselves. But the case is quite
otherwise with local government. There one’s chickens
come home to roost very soon, and the best friends of
LaborAuight well advise it to pause before rushing in
where ialdermeu fear to tread.—S. M. Herald leading
article (lUlfll).
So it appears that the evil results of Labor govern-
ment are postponed. Time was when they were
understood to be shockingly sudden —so sudden
that capital would not only attach wings to its
carpet bag and flee the country as soon as a
Labor Ministry came into power, but it was
liable to bolt at the first suspicion that such a
Government might come into power. That ex-
plained why capital sometimes bolted during a
Tory Administration ; it didn’t flee because the
Tories were in office, but for fear that they
wouldn’t remain in office. Which was a remark-
able case of foresight, like that of the head canni-
bal who planted some extra mustard, parsnips
and horse-radish when he heard of the opening of
a new training college for missionaries. Now, it
seems, all that is changed. The evil results of
Labor government don’t appear for “ some years”
—number of years not specified—so if, by
any ill-cliance, Wade and Cook get back into
office in 1914 or 1918, and things State and Federal
go suddenly to the dogs, the paper will be able to
explain that the evils created by McGowen and
Fisher have just shown themselves. It is driven
to this bald and unconvincing explanation because
any new evils have so far refused to turn up.
But there is consolation —there is a set-off and a
redeeming feature ; there is still balm in Gilead.
In municipal affairs, it seems, the hurried accursed
fowl-comes home to roost early, and the evils of
Labor control show themselves at once. Sup-
posing the Herald to have the slightest faith
m its own foolish tale, one would natur-
ally expect it, at this point,, to urge every
municipal elector to vote Labor. The country
wants to know the evils at once, before it is too
late. If Labor, by making a fearsome muddle of
the local drains and so on, would show us what to
expeef; if large public affairs were not snatched
from the hands of such leaders as Fisher, Vkrran
and MgGowen it would be the greatest, cheapest
blessing that ever fell upon Australia. It might
save us finding out, five years hence, that the army
is rotten,- the navy mere scrap iron, the finances
burst, the great industries decayed, the population
diminished, and an overwhelming enemy.clamoring
at our gates. These are the sort of things, it
seems, that are liable to happen in course of time
if the McGowen variety of Ministry is left in
office, yet the Herald wants to sit down hard on
the evidence that would bring the fact to light.
As it happens, there was never until 1910 an Aus-
tralian Labor Government, with a majority of its
own and power to carry out its own policy, barring
the one-year Ministry of Henry Daglish in
Westralia, and though that passed out 5J years ago
no dreadful consequences are yet alleged ; so it is
difficult to know how the Herald learned
that we have “usually” to wait some years
before the corpse floats on the surface. There
seems to be a lack of data; possibly the
paper invented the yarn. Anyhow, the fact
remains that two classes should vote solidly
for Labor aldermen : (1) Laborites, because they
believe the said aldermen will govern well; (2)
anti-Laborites, because they believe the said
aldermen will govern badly, and thereby give
this country a most valuable warning at the
cheapest possible rate. Unless the second class
regards the Herald as a complete liar, the muni-
cipal Labor candidates should get a unanimous
vote.
♦-
The Tory Notion of “ Good Business.”
The Tory press has two firmly-established ideas
as to what constitutes “ good business ” in connec-
tion with land. When speculators get hold of
land, and pass it on at a big profit to farmers, it
is first-class business from the point of view of
the Tory press ; and, when a moneyed city man
adds to his fatness by buying more city property,
this same addle-headed press again loudly
applauds the operation as good business. It may
be good business, too, for the city man and the
speculator; but the trouble is that it is bad busi-
ness for the community. In reviewing last year’s
dealings, the Argus says that, though they
were pretty good, things are rather quiet now.
Owing to the land tax (of course) —
The flow of business has been checked. That can be
understood when it is remembered that the principal
purchasers of city properties have been large property-
owners. The heavier tax that would have to be borne by
those who wished to add to their holdings has caused
them to button up their pockets.
And then, in the next sentence, the artless paper
gives the whole show away :
Certainly some buildings have been disposed of at high
prices ; but they have been bought by firms so that they
can be sure of remaining in the premises they now
occupy.
Also: —
In the suburbs large areas have been cut up. ... On
these blocks hundreds of houses have been built.
That is, the land tax has made it less profitable
for rich men to gather huge blocks of expensive
city buildings, and has made it a lot easier for in-
dividual firms to buy their own premises,
and escape being rack-rented in the future.
And this, of course, is exactly what the
tax was intended to do. If the Argus ex-
pects anyone to weep over the unfortunate
lot of the city magnate, unable to add to his large
possessions, it is the most optimistic paper on
record. Regarding speculation in country land,
the tax is having an excellent effect. It was
common until lately for the big landholders to
smother the small men at subdivisional sales, and
then unload to the same small men at a big profit.
This vicious system has had, in a manner of speak-
ing, both its hind legs broken by the land tax.
There may not be so many “ sales at satisfactory
prices” recorded by country auctioneers this
year; but what there are will be nearly all
genuine.
The Tory Shriek for Organisation.
In Tory press babbling nothing is more humor-
rous than the persistent decrying of Labor
organisation as being immoral and subversive of
good government, while at the same moment
similar organisation is being recommended to the
party for which this same Tory press goes bail.
The methods of Laborites are quoted as an
example to be followed, yet the results are said to
be essentially iniquitous. Melbourne Argus, for
instance, says:—
We do not advocate the ruthless discipline of the Labor
party, which is founded on rigid principles of unionism and,
in the ultimate issue, to prevent a man from earning his
daily bread who does not conform to the party standards.
By-and-bye it will produce an odious tyranny. None the
less, it is necessary for the Liberal party to learn some of
the organising methods of the Labor party, and to volun-
tarily adopt some of the discipline which the party
enforces.
Which of the methods make for the benefit of the
disciplined party, and which of them inevitably
lead to “odious tyranny,” the Argus doesn’t
attempt to point out. It merely alleges that dis-
cipline founded on union principles must have the
effect of preventing non-conformists from “earn-
ing their daily bread,” and in the same breath
advises undisciplined “Liberals” to voluntarily
adopt the same pernicious principles in order to
meet the foe on equal terms. The truth is that
opponents of Labor politics and Labor methods of
party discipline are for ever trying to evade the
fact that the party owes its success at the polls to
tens of thousands of people who are not trades-
unionists, but who have voluntarily adopted union
principles in preference to the anti-union principles
of Tory capitalists. A considerable measure of
this support is only negative, to be sure. What
the Tory press calls “the inertia of careless, un-
organised, undisciplined Liberals ” is due to a lack
of conviction that the “aims of the Labor party
are delusive,” as stated by the Tory press, “ and
its methods unsound and dangerous.” Conse-
quently the swarm of Liberal-Laborites who have
no connection with the Trades Hall are unmoved
by Tory exhortations to combine against combi-
nation and unite against unionism. They are
content to give the tactics and policy of the Labor
party a fair show. If its aims are delusive and “its
methods dangerous,” if its legislation tends to
prevent any man from “earning his daily bread,”
Labor government will wipe itself out. But any
serious organisation of “Liberal ” forces to wipe
out Labor rule on the strength of Tory predic-
tions is out of the question. The history of
politics for ages is strewn with the debris of shat-
tered Tory prophecies, and the avenues of time
are haunte'd by spectral Fat Men wringing their
worm-eaten hands in anticipation of awful social
calamities which never eventuate, or are found to
be blessings if they do eventuate.
♦
Concerning a Matter in Which the “ S. M.
Herald” May Possibly be Somewhat in
Error.
Commenting on the impressions gathered by
Beeby, N.S.W. Minister for Labor, during his
recent visit to M.L., the S. M. Herald made the
following remarks: —
Mr. Bekbyls very much struck with the business enter-
prise of the Dominion in various socialistic undertakings
that come in collaterally with its Labor legislation ; but
he must be aware that many of these undertakings have
been most severely criticised by the Maorilanders them-
selves, and that they are often only saved by the small
scale on which theiroperationsareconducted. To attempt
to transplant such institutions would be to court disaster.
. . . For instance, Private Enterprise is here quite com-
petent to deal with insurance under the Workmen’s Com-
pensation Act.
Similarly, in M.L., Private Enterprise was quite
competent to deal with tire insurance—so compe-
tent that it was making some hundreds of thousands
of pounds a year out of M.L. insurers for the
benefit of largely-absentee shareholders. That
kind of competency is apt to offend respectable
citizens and lead to recriminations, and in this case
the recriminations took the shape of a State tire
office, which opened its doors in 1905, starting
business with premiums 10 per cent, less than
those accepted by Private Enterprise. At the
end of the year insurances to the extent of
£3,000,000 had been put through the State
office, and P.E. was beginning to read
the “ Wanted ” advertisements in the morning in
case it needed a job pretty soon. Meantime it
reduced its rates to the State’s level, excepting on
dwellings and similarly rated risks which it low-
ered by per cent. This sudden swoop was made
in the desperate hope of putting the first of two
bullets into the opposition and leaving it for dead
on its doorstep. The second bullet was the refusal
to take reinsurances from or to give reinsurances
to the State, or to accept any risk on which the
State held a line. Both bullets went wide,
so wide that they travelled in a circle, returning
in something under a year through the front
window of P.E.’s office and embedding themselves
in P.E.’s fat. The State promptly reduced dwell-
ings and similarly rated risks by 33£ per cent., and
made satisfactory arrangements for re-insuring
heavy risks, although there was no need for it to
make any such error. Anyhow, business began to
move along briskly, until one day the office was
nearly overturned by Private Enterprise rushing
in to announce that it would accept risks on which
the State held a line, and that it had also
abandoned some of its other objections. That
didn’t look like failure. Nor do the figures. In
1905, when the State office first nailed up its sign-
board, the income was £13,137. If Private Enter-
prise could do the thing better, that income should
thereafter have shrunk. Instead of the income
doing anything so unreasonable, the State office
has gone on making a wider and still wider
appeal until, in 1909, in spite of the tre-
mendous concessions to the people which
it had wrung from competing offices, it
had an income of £34,038. That is the
most practical criticism that the Maorilanders or
anybody else can offer to any scheme. If the
S. M. Herald regards it as “severe ” criticism, it
must, of course, be allowed to have its own ideas
of severity, but nobody else is likely to share
them. Probably the Herald doesn’t trouble to
really think about the matter one way or the
other. It reckons that it is giving Private Enter-
prise a lift, and nothing else matters. It might
for once, however, seriously consider whether it is
worth while giving one sprout of Private
Enterprise a lift if that involves giving
a thousand sprouts of Private Enterprise a
kick. In short, it might seriously consider
whether the State Fire Office of Maoriland, for
instance, isn’t a far better friend of Private En-
terprise than the S. M. Herald itself and the
companies it barracks for. The State Office at
least freed perhaps 50,000 samples of Private
Enterprise from a cormorant; while the Herald
is obviously very anxious lest the same sort of
good service should be rendered to Private Enter-
prise in N. S. Wales.
+
Made by Black Labor—Duty Free.
Attention is again being drawn to the absurdity
of a Protectionist country like Australia, whose
affairs are administered bv a Labor Government,
continuing to allow the free importation of jute
goods. Australia draws practically the whole of
its supplies of these articles—cornsacks, branbags,
etc. —from India, where they are, of course, made
by black labor. While it shuts the door against
Sujee Bagii himself, it opens the house to his pro-
ducts, regardless of the fact that it could do the
work better and, in the end, perhaps cheaper itself.
In 1909 Australia paid £1,220,812 for imported jute
goods ; last year, from January 1 to November 30,
it accepted £1,730,174 worth ; this year it will
probably take £2,000,000 worth. The imposition
of a duty would not raise the price permanently,
and probably would not raise it at all; on the
Contrary, the experience of other countries with
this and other articles shows that, with a duty,
the trade would be steadied, the supplies become
more regular, and the prices lower. Of
course, the farmer, who uses most of
these bags—but by no means pays for all
of them in the long run—wails that a duty would
ruin him, and that he must have all his tools
of trade admitted free, because he “has to com-
pete in the world’s markets.” The plea is hollow,
also it has no feet, because Canada, Argentina
and America also compete in the world’s markets,
and do it successfully, in face of the fact that their
duties on jute goods are respectively 35, 40 and 45
per cent. But the farmer doesn’t pay these duties,
because Canada now makes most of its own bags,
America 90 per cent, and Argentina 100 per cent.
To its disgrace, Australia makes only 6 per cent.!
Does the Labor Government propose to continue
giving the larger half of two million pounds’
worth of employment a year to Indian black
labor? If it does, the only thing to assume will
be that its White Australia policy is a mere misty
idea.
♦
For a few hours one evening last week Sydney
sat around by candle-light and wondered how
long the trouble was likely to last. It didn’t last
longer than one evening, but that was bad enough ;
if it had endured a week, it would have been plain
horrible. The darkness arose out of the dismissal
of an employee. The Private Enterprise gas com-
pany said he had been dismissed for good cause;
the men said it was done out of malice, because
he was secretary of the union. So far as the public
was concerned it didn’t matter which it was ; the
public simply wanted gas. There was, it seems,
an arrangement for arbitrating on such matters
by a sort of joint tribunal, but in this case
the co. refused to arbitrate, so a strike
ensued. It was only by the most strenuous
intercession on the part of some members of the
State Government that the matter was tempo-
rarily patched up and the gas-stove set alight for
the cooking of a late breakfast chop. The business
looks miserably unsatisfactory. There is, as
already mentioned, an agreement for the settle-
ment of such disputes, but there is no agreement
that the parties will stick to the agreement, and
when they don’t stick to the agreement it
is not much use having an agreement. Appar-
ently, too, there is no official machinery which, in
such a matter, can grab the combatants instantly,
inform them that the Court will consider the
merits of the row inside a week, and require
the men to return to work and the employers
to either reinstate the person about whom
the dispute arose pending the Court’s decision or
let him take holiday on full pay. Yet that sort
of machinery is wanted. In a case like that of
gas or electric light or water supply the law
requires to be so swift that if the trouble begins
at 11 a.m. it can have work resumed or all parties
comfortably in prison and bail refused by 4 p.m.,
and the emergency Court should be ready, if the
event happens in a large city, to sit next morning.
Unhappily, things don’t work like that, so Sydney
sat round under the sickly glimmer of a stick of
crease, and spoke with scorn about arbitration,
*
The Tory press strives hard these days to per-
suade the public that there is something absurdly
inconsistent in the fact that certain Laborites
advocate Home Rule for Ireland and the Unifica-
tion and Reconstruction policy for Australia. To
anyone who isn’t wilfully obtuse, the two things
seem to go together very well. It is proposed in
Britain that there shall be local Parliaments
enjoying powers bestowed on them by the central
Parliament at London. That is exactly what
the Unification party-proposes here: it aims at
abolishing the present order of things and
creating a new set of State Legislatures with
powers bestowed on them by the Central
Parliament. At present some of the State
Legislatures are too fond of posing as if they had
created the Central Parliament, and it enjoyed
powers conferred bn it by them . Just by way of
ending a trouble that has grown wearisome, and
in order to decide which is to be boss when the
need for a boss arises, the Unincationists advocate
Hopie Rule on the exact plan which Britain con-,
teiuplates. Then the British Liberals suggest
the establishment of local Legislatures in England,.
Ireland and Scotland because the United King-,
dom (121,301 square miles) is an unwieldy
unit, even though the management of rail-,
ways is not included in the Government’s duties..
The Unification and Reconstruction party de-.
sires to subdivide Australia into smaller States,,
because Westralia (075,920 square miles), Queens-,
land (070,500), S.A. (380.070), and N.S.W..
(310,372) are unwieldy units, especially with
railway control added to the other troubles of
government. The British Liberals, in fact, have
done the Australian Unification and Reconstruct
tion party the honor to adopt its programme cn
bloc, or else the U. and It’, party has adopted the
British Home Rule programme* Anyhow,, the
two are the same programme*
« -
“Chloe” : Now that the Northern Territory is
itt,the hands of the Commonwealth, there is a tine
opportunity for experimental legislation ; and the
first step should be to deal stringently with the
native race. There must be sequestration unless
the Australian tropics are to be a hotbed of dis-
eases for the future white settler. It is, as others
have remarked, a “tough proposition”; but it
only cries for a strong hand. Above all, it is the
work of legislators, not of missionaries, with their
narrow and positively s.lly ideas of thrusting our
religion on a race which will never assimilate any
such creed, and whose native beliefs have pro-
duced in them the best results of our own
or any other faith. For blackfellow to black-
fellow is perfectly honest; lies are hated and
despised, and the moral code is most stringent,
until there is contact with civilisation. Drink
and the missionary combined have wrought whole-,
sale deterioration; for while the household gods
of this primitive race have been displaced, the
minds of the natives have been, and will continue
to be, incapable of absorbing the new dogma..
Hence the fall. I except from this condemnation
the work of the Beagle Bay Mission fathers, who
are men of the world first and doctrinal priests
after. What they have made of the native,
through their practical organisation, is a lesson to
the Commonwealth. If the Commonwealth re-,
served large areas of suitable land, and thereon
grew cotton, tobacco, sugar, and, combined with
this, cattle,, sheep and pig-raising, a source of
revenue would be established; and apart from
any weak and puling sentiment, an excellent
piece of moral legislation would stand to the credit
of the young country. But the missionaries must
stand out.
♦
“ Boswell ” on legal reforms and methods: —
While N.S.W. Attorney-General Holman is exciting
himself over the burning necessity of supplying Crown
Prosecutors with stronger legal ammunition wherewith
to slay their victims with greater certainty, he would do
well to take a look at the other side of the picture.
This assumption that Crown Prosecutors haven’t a
ghost of a chance against an undefended accused, dragged
into the dock from a subterranean passage, seems to be a
fetich with Holman. Probably he is aware that people
ostensibly “detained" for dearth of bail have the whole
of their inward and outward correspondence rigorously
censored by gaol officials. They are even obliged
to write on paper which describes them on
the printed heading as “ prisoner ” so-and-so*
A previous Attorney-General, as Mr. Holman knows,
went so far as to have a jury “ drummed ” beforehand,
to which Mr. Holman took violent exception, although
in that particular case the accused was out on bail, and
could thus conduct his trial correspondence free from the
prying nose of the “ Crown.”
Holman should also curb the frantic enthusiasm of
some of his finger-print fakirs. Recently, on the North
Coast, a herbalist was committed on the usual serious
charge. While he was awaiting bail the police de-
manded his prints, which were refused. They then
brought him up before the beak on a charge of
“disobeying orders.” He was lucky enough to have
astute legal assistance, and the magistrate ruled that he
was right in his refusal. During this last Christmas, afc
Mudgee, the Law saw some boys run. It promptly-
lassoed half a dozen on a charge of breaking and entering
a house which the owner declared had never been vio-
lated. After being detained all night and duly finger-
printed, five of the lads were let loose without any charge
being preferred against them. Their solicitor demanded
that the inequitably obtained prints should be handed
over for demolition, and his modest request was refused.
Arthur. Griffith, colleague of Holman’s, barracked
for, years for a Public Defender in the higher courts.
Eventually a shoddy measure of the kind became law
under the “ Liberal ” Government Its provisions are so
excessively “liberal” that during three years fully 25
persons have been defended under it. Will theMcGowKN
Government “Laborise” the measure somewhat? It re-
quires some better remedy than “ Liberalising.” Finally,
will Mr. Holman keep step with England in one respect
by establishing the grandest of all reforms in criminal
law—a Court of Criminal Appeal ?
♦
“0.K.”: An elderly philosopher writes from the
Cold Country:—
I dare say you have been amused at our elections. I
am more and more struck with the unreality of politics
in England. The real question ahead of us now is an.
economic one, and it will be a battle of Armageddon be-
tween the haves and the have-nots. The latter are grow-
ing poorer and naturally fiercer every year.
The placid lookers-on seemingly see no possibility-
of the outbreak being averted by a sudden
stitution of Protection for Freetrade. When,
Freetrade was substituted for Protection by the?
CoBDEN-ites, the old industries were not imme-
diately killed. They perished by degrees, and the-
men whom they employed and who would vote-
Protection are no longer available to vote any-
thing. On the other hand, the tens of thousands,
of half-starved men who exist precariously by the-
shipping trade, and the other tens of thousands
who depend wholly on Freetrade, would be at
once converted into a howling mob by a Tariff'
revolution. And the “Tommies” of the army,
being recruited mainly from the poorest class,
would be more likely to help the revolution
than suppress it. So an abandonment of the
Freetrade position is improbable at present*
Home Rule for Ireland may come; but that won’t,
affect the economic question in Britain. The
abolition of the House of Lords will nodoubt clear-
the way for reasonable Labor legislation in thg
Advance our banners to the outward wall
And bid the scullion vassals of the foe
A loud defiance I
Second Voter :
But which foe, my liege?
K. James:
Which foe? Great Labor, art thou fallen so
low
To eat the dirt of question ? Which, quotha !
Are there a dozen foes to lick the dust
Beneath the boots of our triumphal name
That one will not suffice thee? Dost thou
fear ?
Hence, lily-livered traitor, from my path !
We will away.
First Voter :
But, good my lord.
Knight Reporter :
Gracious my lord, the path your banners
take
Is still the way of honor ; but some word
We lack that shall determine presently
If you will lend Australia potent aid,
Or countenance the small States irritant
That fume against her sceptre.
H. op Fat:
Yea, my lord,
We wait your puissant answer. Shall I bear
Your honorable word to them I serve,
And cry, McGowen marshals all his spears
To check the ravening Australian wolf,
And hold the o’er-reaching Commonwealth at
bay?
H. of Australia :
My lord, in-honor's name I claim your aid
For great Australia!
K. James :
Why, there, there, there, there !
How ye beset me with your prating words.
Am I not king ? Am I not master here ?
HaVe I not wealth of spears enough for use
In either battle ? Let the trumpet sound !
Forth to the tight! Let him who strikes for
Fat
Have honor on the swelling tongue of fame ;
Anil in the mouth of all this continent
Be his renown who for the Commonwealth
Breaketh a lance to-day.
A Lord Representative :
Then are we free to serve which side we list,
And e’en take arms against our brother
knights
Who lead the Labor hosts to battle ?
K. James:
Free as the winds that tuft the tinted wave
On Bondi’s yellow sands. Kingly I reach
To each embattled host a warlike hand.
Dear to my heart are all States irritant
That swell the fatted waistcoats of the great,
And dear the watchwords of the warrior
throng
That march for young Australia. On, on* on!
Advance our banners; set upon our foes;
Quit ye like men in Labor’s holy cause.
Out on the traitor hearts that sag with fear !
March ! Bid the resolute trumpets forthwith
sound !
Divided victory mix your conquering helms !
Flourish. Fxeunt omnes.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


HARRINGTONS LTD.,
TTh e Sup,"u c p , "f y m S aph
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
When You Are Kept Awake
At night with that troublesome Cough, remember
that it can be speedily relieved by Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
gsd
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEJ ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lilyof the
Valley
Natural.
NigS\t-
Scented
stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes char m
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature wild,
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
fg
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD ,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
House of Commons; but, then, the House of
Commons is hardly less Conservative than it was
20 years ago. For the rest, there is the national
danger which is always vaguely said to be
“ ahead ” ; and the recent election brought the
country no nearer a serious consideration of that
matter. Wherefore, if Germany struck a well-
directed blow at England it might knock her into
the soup. On the other hand, an ill-directed blow
might do her a bit of good ; and, as Germany
knows that, too, the fact saves her—for the
present.
»
Certain big landowners of N.S.W. have resolved
to do battle in the High Court with a view to
having the Federal progressive land-tax ruled out
as unconstitutional. Presumably they propose to
nght on the old ground which the anti-land-taxer
has always taken up, i.e., that section of the
Constitution which gives the Commonwealth
unlimited powers of taxation “but so as not to
discriminate between States or parts of States. ’’
That clause has, up till now, been the sheet-
anchor of the anti-land-taxers, but the anchor
showed signs of dragging when it was first thrown
out, and it has been dragging ever since.
In fact, there have been times when it looked
more a Jonah than an anchor. (Of course, it
must be remembered that an anchor may drag for
years and then find good holding ground in the
law courts at last ; so that doesn’t necessarily
mean anything.) Long ago Senator Gould
declared proudly that a Federal graduated land
tax would be illegal, and The Bulletin, feeling
interested, offered him publicly every week for a
long time thereafter a large sum of money if he
would show just cause for his statement. The
silence of Mr. Gould was, and still is, the silence
of the deep, deep sea-bottom where the deaf
marine adder sits and adds all day in his sunless
caves. Then a single-tax gentleman rushed in
and claimed the money on the ground that it
was unlawful to discriminate “ between States or
parts of States.” The matter was referred
to two barristers, and both The Bulletin’s
barrister and the single-tax gentleman’s bar-
rister rejected the single-tax gentleman’s conten-
tion with enthusiasm. If the law reverses their
opinion of the case they will be two much-
surprised barristers. Their view was that a pro-
gressive land-tax law would naturally make no
mention of States or parts of States. It would
the value (and possibly also the area)
that "a property must possess to make it.
taxable; and then it would be taxable no matter
what State or what partof a State it was in. They
considered that the law isn’t held to discriminate
between States or parts of States when it levies
an excise on sugar, though sugar is only grown in
one State and part of another ; it simply doesn’t
inquire where the 'sugar, grows or where the big
property grows, but makes them dutiable wher-
ever they may be found. One matter at least is
certain : if the protesting crowd wins its case, the
Government will require to do something mighty
sudden in order to raise money, and the fact of
the Prime Minister being away helping Geo. V.
to put on his golden and jewelled lid will be a
very bad difficulty. The matter will probably' be
tried in March, and if the Commonwealth is
blown out it will require another amendment of
the Constitution to put things right. That is a
long process, and if Parliament remains shut up
till September the process won’t be made any
shorter.
An Australian meat trust has been mentioned
during the last few days. As a matter of fact, if
there hasn’t already been actually a meat combine
there has been in almost every State for many
years past an arrangement to prevent the
public getting cheap meat; but, as the
new combine is American in origin, the
public has been told to look out. As long as it
was the Australian meat-grower and handler
who squeezed the public, evidently the squeezing
wasn’t supposed to matter, and the State had no
call to interfere. But when it is a foreign
squeeze, no steps can be too decisive. Even the
S. M. Herald can in such a case look upon nation-
alisation, not only without a shudder, but even as
something quite desirable. At any rate, it men-
tions that “some years ago an attempt was made in
Maorilarid on the same lines ; but Joseph Ward
promptly threatened nationalisation, and it
failed ’’—which is a pretty plain hint that the
Herald is prepared to embrace the Socialistic
tiger. The point that isn’t being stressed is that
any one State might find the job of fighting the
huge American meat monopoly a tough proposi-
tion; yet the Commonwealth can!t take a hand
unless the people vote “ Yes ” in the coming anti-
monopoly referendum. And the State Frighter
is busy whooping to the public t 6 vote “No.”
Put in another way, he is whooping to the public
to insist on each of the six little States taking on
its own separate little fight against, any foreign or
other monopoly, no matter how vast, that may
happen along. No wonder the vast foreign
monopoly says. “This is my chance,” and wants
to push in before the Commonwealth has the
power to take a hand and knock the intruder
clean off the continent.
»
From Henry Chinn, C.E., of Adelaide
The Bulletin (21/12/T0), dealing with the invention o
Mr. Angus and the treatment meted out to him by the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, was less severe than it
might have been ; for the conduct of these and similar
highly-paid servants of the public throughout the Com-
monwealth is doing a lot to prevent the man of small
means, but possessed of the inventive brain, coming forth
with ideas that would prove a benefit to his native land.
To these imported and inflated individuals nothing
emanating from the mind of a local individual can have
merit ; but should an invention bear the stamp of a
foreign name, it will be taken up with zest and run for all
it is worth or not worth. 1
The opposition recently shown to Mr. Angus in con-
nection with his proposed demonstrations is on a par
with my own experience in connection with a compound
invented by me for welding tramway and railway
rails or any metal pieces, though perhaps I had
got a little further with my invention than
Mr. Angus had reached at a similar stage in the proceed-
ings. In my case, innumerable demonstrations had
proved beyond a shadow of doubt that my compound did
all that I claimed for it. All these demonstrations were
nude at my expense, and at the special request of the
responsible officer of the Adelaide Tramways Trust. The
demonstrations proved the welded parts to be equal in
tensile strength to the standard test for steel rails, viz.,
30 tons to the square inch, showing that train rails can
he weldefi with the Australian article as well as, if not
better than, with the German and imported product,
thermet,. at about half the cost. The use of the local
product would, of course, also mean building up an in-
dustry from a small beginning with the native iron ore of
which we have in the Commonwealth such vast quantities.
After giving the utmost proof of the efficacy qf my
compound (kalipsite), and fixing a price that meant a
saving of over £llOO to the country, I was simply told
that it was not in the power of the Trust to compel the
contractors to use it, notwithstanding that before the
contract was let I was assured to the contrary. In fact,
I am credihly informed that the contractor actually ten-
dered alternative prices for thermet and kalipsite, and
was entirely in the hands of the Trust as to which com-
pound should be used There were no obstacles of any
kind which prevented the Trust using my compound or
a better one if available, and hence I am convinced' that
nothing but the cursed Australian brand was the cause
of it being turned down for this Australian work, which
is being paid for with Australian money.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs.”
Criterion “Tom Jones.”
Palace “The Girl from Rector’s.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum.. Spencer’s Pictures.
Clontarf Maori Village.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Bad Girl of the Family.”
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Gay Gordons.”
Kino’s “ The Christian.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
St. Kilda Esplanade .. The Follies.
+—
The last days of “Miss Gibbs” are in
sight at Sydney Royal ; that is to say, those who
see far enough can perceive them. The hairs of
the lady’s head are numbered, and if one only
knew the number one could tell how many hairs
she had. In which respects she resembles the
house which the active agent declares to be a
stone’s throw from the railway station ; it is a
stone’s throw if only the stone is thrown far
enough. In a roundabout sort of way these re-
marks are intended to imply that “ Miss'
Gibbs ” will end some day, but what day
that will be is quite unknown. In the
meantime “ Yip-I-addy-I-ay ” ought to be
made an indictable offence. It is the evil,
disreputable descendant of a family of lunatic
choruses which included “ Foll-01-iddy-li-do ” and
“ Di-a-rumshy-doodle ” and other mad noises
which are now dead and sleeping with their
fathers. Already strong office boys have been
sacked because they couldn’t avoid saying “ Yip-
I-addy ” inbusiness hours, and horses have bolted
because their drivers never let up on the dreadful
thing, and dogs have fled from home on accountof
it, and left not even a note of explanation behind
them.
s|f s|£ £|£
“ The Whip,” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney),
is evidently out after the scalp of “Miss Gibbs” as
a record-breaker, but the light-heeled lady is still
far ahead, and is likely to remain so. Still “The
Whip ” is going strong, and its railway smash is
very realistic, and the great horse-race scene
shows how, when the horses stand still and the
scenery bolts past them, the horse that is bolted
past by most scenery wins the event. The diffi-
culty is to find out why anybody should take the
trouble to stiffen the horse when the real problem
is that of squaring the scenery.
** * *
At the Criterion Peter Doody will have
no further use for his motto after Friday night,
when “The Arcadians” will go and “Tom
Jones ” will come. Tom, who was invented by
Fielding, isn’t as well known to as many
moderns as he ought to be, his author being
out of fashion ; but, according to the people who
have first met him in comic opera clothes, he is a
good sort, and Edward German has supplied him
with an abundance of dainty music.
* * *■ *
Just when the public had come to the con-
clusion that “ The Girl from Rector’s ” intended
to monopolise the Hugh J. Ward season at the
Palace (Sydney), the announcement was made
that she had been given notice that her services
would be dispensed with after January 27. She
was a nice girl, too, if she did have somany fol-
lowers that often there wasn’t enough seating
accommodation to go round. Those who have
not yet met the lady will find her any night at
the old address in Pitt-street until Saturday
week, when a new comedy entitled “Seven
Days” will take over the premises. It hasn’t
been seen before in Sydney, but it brings excel-
lent references from New York and other well-
known people.
** # *
Miss Yetta, a dainty lady who dances on a
wire, has come along to make the Tivolian
feel young again. Wire-walking is one of the
things that the jaded critic enthuses about with
difficulty, It has been going on for so long; ever
since there was wire there have been wire-per-
formers; from the almost elderly man with the
tremendously-long balancing-pole, who glided
step by step on trembling feet from one plush-
-covered roost to another, to the pantomime Star
who bounced and frolicked on the gleam-
ing thread of steel like a spider that
had just won three flies in a raffle.
Miss Yetta, a graceful performer on her line,
seems to be able to do everything on the wire ex-
cept fall off. She makes a jest of the law of
gravity, and cakewalks on the swaying silver
thread in a manner that suggests that the Sydney
footpaths are really quite wide enough if people
would only go to her for lessons. Julian Rose,
the Six American Dancers, the Blessings, Quealys,
and Fanny Powers are the other performers who
help to keep the attention of the audience on the
right side of the footlights. Fred Bluett, who is
doing his valuable best to undo the work of Bar-
num-Powell, is having an attack of last nights.
m* * *
Two or three differing productions of
“ The Christian ” had been visited upon this
country for its sins ere Roy Redgrave’s version
was let loose at the King’s (Melb.) last Saturday
night. This one differs exceedingly from the
others. It is, in fact, a jingling fantasia on Hall
Caine’s, popular dirge. You get the sombre
prurient theme with profuse variations. From
a strictly Andersonian point of view, the
first two acts would probably be reckoned better
melodrama than they were in the versions which
showed more respect to the novel; but from any
point of view the last two acts are comparatively
foolish. Whereas the Foyer of the Frivoli
Music ,Hall (Act II) is a scene constructed
by one who knows the theatrical “ropes,”
the following scene—the Alexandra Home of
Refuge-—is a glaring example of the adaptor’s
ignorance of his subject. In the Refuge for back-
slid spinsters John Storm figures as a beauteous
kind of young cardinal who runs the show under
Ned Duggan’s papal blessing, and they both wear
hats of the biretta shape. In the fourth act
.brother John comes along in a demented state, as
of yore, to murder the capricious Glory Quayle,
having received word from Polly Love, who lives
on the premises, that her dear young mistress is
disposed to lose her soul to Mr. Drake. Where-
upon Glory, as of yore, lets down her back hair
and persuades John to kiss her, after which
they kneel together before a little altar and vow
eternal matrimony. Thus John finds the Light
and concludes the disturbance. Glory, of course'
pretends that it is she who has found the Light •
but nobody, save John, is deceived by her
assertions.
* * * .
The Anderson Co. has done many worse
things than “The Christian.” Its dullest epi-
sodes should be easily removed or condensed.
Lolly Love (tolerably well acted by Miss Wilton)
is permitted an unnecessary recrudescence of emo-
tion after she has parted with her illicit infant,
and from the same third act a lot of discussion about
souls and bodies could be cut out, for there has
been just about enough of it previously. The
performance has some merits. Harry Sweeney
is a very well-conducted Mr. Drake, and Bickett
is a cheerful, cynical sinner as Lord Robert Ure.
The unpleasant fanaticism of John Storm is not
even suggested by Redgrave until he talks of
murdering his girl. All the rest of the time his
attitudes are pleasing and his demeanor theatri-
cally business-like. Miss Duggan, as Glory, gives
a somewhat modified rendering of her usual self in
a series of characteristic gowns, not to mention a
large hat or two. She is perhaps most earnest
when she is ordering a presumptuous male person
to leave the room, and her diction is least open to
exception when it isn’t supremely skittish. But
Miss Duggan compels a measure of interest in the
matter-of-fact uniqueness of her methods. She
always acts like a practised batswoman on a good
wicket, so to speak. Knowing that her chances
are many for making boundary hits, she never
wastes strength in running singles. Miss Bryer
and Max Clifton make useful little contributions
to the score ; Duggan has some irresistible gallery
speeches concerning public morals; Bailey is
chippy in the make-weight character of a serio-
comic archdeacon ; and a note of perfect natural-
ness is struck by Liza (Miss Cosham) when she is
unjustly suspected of harboring a follower in the
kitchen.
+KJC.H
WARP
' AS
PROFESSOR
MABOON
REUNALP
WYKEHAM
V\\
coj.oNtr '
A (N DREW
TANDY
“ THE GIRL FROM RECTOR’S ,” AT
THE SYDNEY PALACE.
At the other theatres the old bills were
renewed once more on Saturday. Nothing has
happened to the Williamson panto, of late
except the restoration of Sam Elton to the
matinees. Elton is the man who drops hiniself
about the stage without breaking the pile of
crockery he carries in his hands, or the eggs con-
cealed in his pockets, and for a while he appeared
only at nights. Now he perpetrates his strange
speciality on matinee occasions also, and the roar
of many children rewards liis efforts. It would be
a louder roar if he were to smash all the plates
by accident and sit upon the eggs by design—but
no matter, It is stated that Elton’s performance
“ made the Shah laugh,’’and the Bulletin doesn’t
blame the Shah’s sense of humor for retaining its
youthful freshness.
** * *
“The Gay Gordons” continues to be a
musical play of infinite variety at Melbourne
Royal. Furthermore, some of its variety is
charming ; and the general effect is elusive.
** * *
At the Princess’s there is a steady demand
for the “sensational bedroom drama,” owing
partly, perhaps, to an unfounded rumor that the
Bad Girl of the Family needs to have a blanket
drawn over her proceedings. Which, of course,
she doesn’t. False hopes to that effect are hardly
warranted by the ad vt. It would be different if
the entertainment were entitled “The Loosest
Girl of the Lot,” and billed as an exciting bath :
room play.
»* * *
This is the last week of the children’s
afternoon panto, at the King’s.
. ... *- * * *
Barnold’s Dogs and Monkeys are still the
central attraction at the Opera House, and
Barnold gets a “call” when his animals have
hopped through their task. Their perfbrmance
says much for the trainer’s patience and ingenuity
in staging the show. Also, it indicates that the
old established Beer joke will die hard. Moralists
may denounce it, but the world persists in
thinking it funny. Barnold’s animals are mostly
required to hop across the stage to a mimic
pub, and the “star” performer is the dog that
goesoftenest to get a beer. The idea of a dawg
appearing to have a human thirst and being ulti-
mately run in for intoxication is the idea that
appeals to the audience. Having lost all taste for
the venerable Beer joke, this scribe has never
been able to raise a smile on account of Dan the
Drunken Dog ; but can see matter for hilarity in
the turn of Cooper and Lait.
** * *
At West’s Melbourne Palace “ Patricia of
the Plains ” is taking a constitutional across the
sheet. It is a story of fury and fighting men,
made familiar through a Belasco drama. The
interesting “Scenes in Colombo” film the life of
the black brudder who gets the first chance to rob
the Australian on his way to Europe. As for
“The Man Who Learned.” it is such a beautiful
sermon on sanitary milking that it would be pro-
fane to praise it in less than Miltonese.
** * *
Manager Marcus is giving some imported
artists their first Australian experience at Adel-
aide Tivoli, and Rickards promises a steady suc-
cession of stars. Ethel Loftus is that rare bird, a
feminine low comedian. Face, hair, voice and
sturdy figure are all put to their full use, art
triumphing over vanity; the hair becomes a
mere thatch, the smile a grin, the song a bellow
when such things are required to ram home a
joke. Also, the lady has personality. She grips
an audience from the start, and leaves it yelling
for more. The other new arrivals are three
“ bounding navvies ’’ with the improbable names
of Wild, West and Willie. Assault and battery is
their strong suit. Bricks and pickaxes are used,
but the plain mishandling is more effective. To
carry a man in one’s arms and drop him suddenly,
to take him by the chin or the skull and throw
him over a low wall, and still leave him unfrac-
tured and fit for further use, is an art that must
have required a lot of steady practice.
* * * *
Adelaide Royal has seen . the close of
Maggie Moore’s remarkable tour cle force as the
girl in “Struck Oil.” Woods and Miss Williamson
have come in with the latter’s “Deemster” adapta-
tion. Branscomhe’s Dandies, at. the Exhibition,
are the best of the open-air shows ; to make a
possibly invidious selection, the humorists Claude
Dam pier and George Morgan have a personal
appeal that would make them shine in any com-
pany. The Empire Pictures have a lamentable
convict drama, and West’s have a neat novelty in
some views of Reece playing billiards.
“R.D.’s ” picture of an island winch believed
with Bruce Smith that the best way to handle a
semi-tropical country was to let the cheap yellow
man come in :
Struck Papete (Tahiti) again after an absence of seven
years. It makes an old South Sea rover weep to compare
it with what it was. Formerly Papete was the town of the
Pacific, a place full of life and activity, with plenty of
money, and the rendezvous of ships of all nationalities
and sizes—a “ sailors’ paradise,” possessing a fascination
few could withstand. Traders were doing well, even the
smallest of them ; there was scarcely an empty house
to be found in the whole of the town. This was
before the advent of John Chinaman. Now. one looks in
vain for the old familiar English names. The houses are
there, but they are empty, falling to rack and ruin for
the want of care, crying aloud in their nakedness for a
coat of paint. The people are gone. Some have died,
others have disappeared ; some have hung on till bank-
ruptcy, and then given up in despair, existing on what
pittance they might have saved from the general wreck.
And as the white trader went down the Chow sprang up,
and spread and flourished like the prickly pear and other
noxious weeds, until to-day there are scarcely half a
dozen businesses run by white men, while Chinese
stores are to be seen on every hand. There
are 14,000 of the yellow scourges in Tahiti. Another
consequence of the flooding of the island with
Chinamen is the spread of foul disease , among the
native women, so that to-day there are very few who
are not tainted one way or another. The motal stand-
point was never high in Papete, and now it does not
exist at all. As in Papete, so it is in the Lee Ward Island.
Chinese stores predominate, white traders eking out a
bare existence. The Government, in its wisdom, puts a
tax on any poor beggar who ventures a few thousand
francs in starting a plantation—cotton, coffee, etc.—in-
stead of encouraging him by subsidy for a little while.
The group should be self-supporting, instead of which
the French Government has to spend somewhere about
170,000 francs every year. But the Chinese still send
away many boxes of gold and silver They’re all'
right, even if everybody else is All wrong.
The Call of the Surf
TAARK young lady (surfer) Wishes to meet gent,
(surfer pref.), view mat,; genuine. , Herald.
Apparently nothing else really matters. / lie,may
be tall or squat, ,as equatorial as 6.. Reid or as
polar as a bear or a beanstalk, red or black, flush
or stony, a 255.-a-week clerk or waiting on
nothing a week for something to turn up—it is
only the surfing that counts. On the other hand,
it looks as though, as an aid to matrimony, surfing
isn’t what it was. Venus once - only had to take
to the surf and there show more of herself than
usual to make a capture ; now evidently the rpale
surfer is so used to Venuses that Ven.us has to pay
“Mr. James” half a crown to throw out another
hook.
Melbourne has discovered a girl who has
the unpleasant-story disease in a recurrent or epi-
demic form. The other day she gave the force a
detailed description of a man who had entered
the house at Newmarket where she was boarding,
had invaded her bedroom, and misconducted him-
self most grievously. She desired that he should
be immediately hanged. The particulars she
gave were so exact that the law was beginning to
be impressed, when it was advised to turn up the
reports from Malvern of a few weeks back. It
did so—and straightway lost all interest in the
matter, for the damsel had been bowled out in a
similar narrative in that suburb. The reports
curtly conclude : “No arrest will be made.” Of
course. The girl, in such a case, ho matter' how
dangerous she may be, never is arrested.


PICTURE SHOWMEN should send to-day for a
copy of our latest Catalogue. Brimful of infor-
mation and useful hints. Also send for our Film
Lists—they are right up to now.— JERDAN’S, 393
George Street, Sydney.*
The best way to achieve good luck for the
new year is to meet it half way and urge good
judgment to its best behavior by a little.coaling
with D.C.L. Whisky. The best of good luck
comes to the man who is lucky enough to be
inspired at the right moment by the right brand—
D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.
A Help in ...
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Another Australian drama is hovering over Anderson’s
theatre, Melbourne. Ned Duggan has written this one “on
his own,” and it is said to read well, which is a first recom-
mendation, anyhow, though a play that looks all right in
the MSS. isn’t certain to catch the ’bus. Duggan’s pro-
visional title is " M.v Mate.” The plot differs from that
of previous Australian melodramas in being confined to
one district, a short space of time, and not more than a
dozen characters in all. If the rehearsals are promising,
Anderson will produce it, within the next two months,
probably.
“ Busk ”: The mystery of the new Colonial Picture
Theatre, Bourke-street, Melbourne, is dissipated. There
is, it now appears, plenty of time to change the name to
National, Australia, Victoria, or something else reason-
able. Even the George would be better. “ Colonial ”is
like a flabby, damp, secondhand fish. Why handicap your
playhouse ? The place is that time-honored (or otherwise)
establishment known through the ages as Tilke’s Music
Hall, the Colosseum and Queen’s Hall. Charley Memmott,
erstwhile billiard champion, is just carrying his tables
out of it. I presume the hotel license in front goes, as the
bar is shut, and a pump license dies if you stop working
the handle. The hall is to be rebuilt at a cost of £5OOO.
The ostensible proprietor is J. D. Williams ; behind him
is a co. registered in Sydney, with anything up to £lOO,OOO
to spend. Tilke’s Music Hall opened in the early Gold-
fields Rush. Its yet older rival was the Canterbury Music
Hall, a few doors farther west, beyond the Bull and Mouth
and Hosie’s.
“ Melb " : The Queen’s Hall, in Bourke-street, which is
to come down to make way for the vilely-named Colonial
Theatre, runs back to 1845 ; it is only a couple of years
younger than Melbourne’s first-born theatre, the Vic-
ria, a?terwards the Canterbury Hall. The Queen’s used
to be called Tilke’s. Then Charley Wright bought it. He
had been a waiter under Spiers and Pond at the Bourke-
street Caf6 de Paris and at Cremorne Gardens. The first
elephant brought to Melbourne, after being shown at
Cremorne, was housed at the back of Tilke’s. I don’t
think it was the elephant; but, anyway; something
enabled Wright to rebuild Tilke’s, and then it was
re-christened the Colosseum. Wright made a heap of
money ; and his executors still pay over,a considerable
amount every year to the Melbourne charities, the only
other payment of the kind being the larger one from the
estate of Wilson, of the Argos. The Colosseum, having
acquired an unsavory name, was turned into the Queen’s
Hall. Among many others, May Yohe gave her Melbourne
performances there.
A new concert hall, to accommodate 2000 or 2500
people, is to be built in George-street, Sydney, near
Bathurst-street, on or about the spot where Goodlet and
Smith’s timber-yard used to be.
“ THE GAY GORDONS."
AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
The Leading Lady
(Florence I meson)
dons her brother’s
uniform.
Recently BeerbohniiTree presided ata dinner in London
given by the Council of the Actors’ Association to cele-
brate the institution’s 21st birthday. Its,founders were
invited as guests, and the guest of honor was Robert
Courtneidge, who has made a large fortune'out of “ The
Arcadians,” and is still working his goldeti reef at the
Shaftesbury Theatre. Twenty years ago, when Court-
neidge came to Australia as a member of a Gaiety Burl-
esque Co., he was said to have done the profession some
service by starting the A.A. aforesaid. Seemingly he de-
served the credit he got at the time, for the Association
—whatever its objects may be—has proved its usefulness
by achieving a 21st birthday. Meanwhile, Courtneidge
has ceased to be an actor himself, and gives his
brains to the business of theatrical management
and the art of “ producing ” shows. His last
appearance as a mummer was in Melbourne, when
he played the Scotch professor in “On Change”
for one consecutive night, at the time of his return to
Melbourne for the friendly purpose of staging Geo ge
Musgrove’s beautiful productions of “ Midsummer
Night’s Dream ” and “As You Like It.” He had then been
out of practice, as an actor, for some years. The wisest
comedians are content to be managers rather than actor-
managers. They don’t begin to lag superfluous on the
stage if they can turn their experience to profitable
account behind the scenes and in the office. With men
like Robert Courtneidge and J. C. Williamson, acting is not
a passion, but a means to an end. There are others who,
if they dropped into a legacy of £20,000, would sacrifice it
to their vanity by producing poor plays which offered
them fat parts.
“ Hiphen ” : In B. 28/10/’O9 I wrote that an amalgama-
tion, trust, combine or honorable understanding had
been arranged by J.C.W., the Clarke-Meynell firm and
B’lAnderson, whereby they would work 'hand in hand
instead of fist to fist. I further stated that there would
be only one panto, in Melbourne this year—at Her
Majesty’s—and that generally the fierce competition
would come to an end. That par. produced a storm of
curses and denials. Quite a number of persons said un-
kind things of me in “Poverty Point.” J.C.W. s people
wrote a denial and derided me to 10 places of decimals.
To all of which I maintained a dignified and eloquent
silence. But I now wish to call attention to the present
state of the theatrical market in Melbourne. There is one
panto.—at Her Majesty’s. There is one comic opera—
Clarke and Meynell’s. B’lAnderson has his usual mur-
derama—and has gone out of panto, apparently. William-
son did not oppose C. and M.’s “ Arcadians ” and ‘ Gay
Gordons ” with a counter comic opera, as had always
been the case,, but launched out into an entirely new sea,
viz., Drury Lane sensation plays, such as “ The Whip.”
Most significant of all, Clarke and Meynell, in spite of
theirrecord breaking, coffer-filling panto., “Cinderella,’
have not sought to repeat their extraordinary success,
but are apparently content to leave this lucrative Christ-
mas shekel-snarer to J.C.W. I don’t know anything—•
but I think a lot.
“Snell": “The Bad Girl of the Family ” is about the
worst “ Girl,” I think. Never was villain more persistent,
never wasvillainy more easily foiled, never was hero more
sublime and fatty an ass, and never did the low comedian’s
part more nearly approach the ideal of spontaneous and
effervescent gaiety represented by the monkey on a stick.
Yet “ The Bad Girl of the Family ”is something of a rage in
London, where it has been going at a gallop for over a
year. It is drawing big bunches of apparently sane
human beings at Melbourne Princess’s, and makinglumps
of money in a score of English-speaking centres scattered
over Earth. Why? I know many plays almost as bad
that have failed utterly, and believe I could write a worse
one. But where’s the use? You cannot rely upon a
managerproducingyourplay no matter how bad it might
be.
“ Not-at-All ” : “ The Whip ” wasn’t long out before it
was “ potted ”by Pelissier and his “Follies.” Pelissier,
who weighs almost 20st., took the part of Lady Di, and
rode a horse of the draught species. The railway scene
showed the train standing unblushingly still while the
scenery moved slowly and shamelessly backwards. There
was no optical illusion about this. The collision between
the train and the horse-box was also slaughtered. Stage-
hands could be seen pushing the train against the paste-
board horse-box, and the shock of the collision caused
the engine to stand on its perpendicular, and stay there.
The humor of the “potting” lies in the way the tricks
of the original"plays are dealt with. It’s not a bad sort of
humor —taken in moderation.
“Stargazer” (B. 5/l/’ll) has put his finger on
the spot when he credits habit with the loud laugh in-
duced by a local allusion. In Adelaide, no panto, used to
be complete without a mention of the horse trams, and
the perpetrators of the book probably view the installa-
tion of an electric service with regret. But there still is
Bowden. Hundreds of alleged comedians have caused
hundreds of Holv City audiences to roar with
joy simply by mentioning that they had been or
intended to go to Bowden. If an earthquake should
demolish that delectable suburb panto.-makers will be
forced to provide the principal comedian with real jokes,
and the strain upon them will be fearful. Strangers who
know not Bowden must be mystified at the joyous howl
the word produces, and really intelligent people ac-
quainted with the bricky suburb are both pained and
mystified. “ Stargazer ” says it is a habit; he might have
added, a silly one.
The latest one-act thriller at the Grand Guignol (Paris)
is right up to date. The hero has to leave his sufferingchild
to attend a strike meeting. The child gets worse. A
doctor is hastily brought. Operation is necessary at
once, he says. In the middle of it the light goes out.
The operation is spoilt; the child is dead. Enter the
father, proud of the evening’s work. “We have decided
on an electric-light strike ; Paris is in darkness,” he says.
And his wife comments simply—” Murderer ! ”
“0.K.” : In a Lone Hand article on “ Australian Mum-
mers at Home and Abroad ” there were two notable
omissions. Something more than a passing mention of their
names was due to Nellie Mortyne and A. E. Greenaway,
who are probably the most-travelled of all the locally-
born and bred artists. Both were members of W. J.
Holloway’s co. at one time or another in the long ago,
and both of them have been to England, Africa or
America and back again several times tince they first
broke away from their Australian moorings. Just now
they are hereabouts. Nellie Mprtyne went right through
the'dramatic mill before she got on to her present line of
character-acting in such plays as “ The Hypocrites” and
“The Passing of the Third Floor Back.” Greenaway has
ranged in the “legitimate,”' from Romeo to Julius
Caesar, made his mark in a round of romantic dramas and
“costume plays,” and done pretty well everything short
Of painting his nose red and calling himself a low
comedian.
Tottie Bennett, one of the smartest of the Williamson
chorus girls, has booked a promising engagement in
India, and sails this month for Calcutta.
Miss Johanna Redmond, th,e 22-year-old daughter of
the Irish leader, is showing promise as a playwright. She
is a granddaughter of the house of Dalton, of Orange
(N.S.W.). > fh,
Lord Dudley, having given earnest attention to the
panto, turned his patronage to the drama in Melbourne
last week, and devoted an evening to “The Bad Girl of
the Family.” One supposes that he went to the Prin-
cess’s with his vice-regal tongue in his cheek, prepared to
shriek at the “thrillingly realistic bedroom" scenes ” of
the melodrama, and shed tears for its comic relief. His
august Majesty the King did likewise in London when
the “ Bad Girl ” first came to light, so Dudley’s taste in
entertainment has official approval, as it were. All the
same, the fact that a notoriously absurd melodrama can
command the patronage of a bored aristocracy is a
deplorable sign of the times. The first British atrocity of
the kind that attracted the “Smart Set”—which, of
course, drew the snobocracy after it—was “The Worst
Woman in London.” Then for a while the lords and
dukes and their womenkind lost interest in dramatic bal-
derdash. Their roars of merriment had exhausted t hem.
“The Bad Girl of the Family” seems to have revived
their jaded notion of a “ good joke, bai Jove 1 ’?
Strange news comes drifting at times along the cable.
An item supplied last Monday was to the effect that two
Bohemian sisters, who are joined together by a ligament
like the famous Siamese Twins, arrived at London on a
single railway ticket, and the officials declared them to
be two women, and demanded two tickets. Apparently
the inseparable pair didn’t pay, and anyhow the position
of the officials was weak. They couldn’t lawfully detain
the Bohemian Girl who paid, and yet they must do that
if they detained the Bohemian Girl who didn’t part up.
Yet the fact that they are two separate girls seems to be
borne out by the fact that Rosa has a baby while
Josephine hasn’t. And their separateness is further shown
by the fact that Josephine, who has never been away from
Rosa in her life, expressed the greatest wonderment at
Rosa’s conduct in having the baby.
After five months’ illness, Beatrice Holloway resumes
stage work at Newcastle next week, rejoining Max Max-
well’s company for the season in the coal city. After
finishing there, the co. will move on to Adelaide and
Melbourne with its portmanteau of Bland Holt’s plays.
The English elections in December did not damage the
music-halls as much as usual. In London and the big
provincial cities every variety house turned on some form
of cinematograph, and election results were shown on the
screen as soon as known. There was, in fact, no place
where the public could depend upon getting the latest
news so quickly. “ Results ” were among the most popu-
lar turns, and all the halls did big business.
“ Lud ” : Irving’s statue has just been unveiled by John
Hare, with a first-rate speech, before a great crowd, in
Charing Cross-road. Hare seemed to aim at counteract-
ing a rather disparaging estimate of Irving given by
Ellen Terry. She exalts him to the skies as an artist,
but pictures him as a narrow sort of man, too much
absorbed in his profession, and not sympathising with
her desire for general knowledge and her exalted ideas
of citizenship, which have even led her into the Woman
Suffrage movement. Hare, unveiling the statue, made
an appeal for Irving all round. Of course, there have
been actors as great, or greater, and managers more
clever in making money; but Hare declared he"had never
heard of a manager so generous. He had the most pro-
found and unparalleled consideration for humble em-
ployees. H. B. Irving was at the unveiling, and followed
Hare with an emotional speech in praise of his father—
the more weighty because of the estrangement there had
been for years between Irving and his family.
The faithful dog has been at it again. Miss Lessmann
used to be the idol and boss dancer of Moscow. She
greiv old and her job fell from her. Apparently she
hadn’t saved any money, and, grievous poverty became
her lot. Still she managed for a while to support herself
and five very large unemployed dogs. She became a
slave to her dogs. Then one day she fainted, probably
through lack of food, and the five devoted animals ate a
good deal of her.
“ Harrison O.”: I’ll admit that Alexander Prince is
“the fling of Conceitina Players.” This Prince chap
differs from most Rickards artists inasmuch as he is not
a maniac musician ; he does not play six instruments at
once, or one while standing on his head ; and it is owing,
no doubt, to his lack of accomplish merits in thisdirection
that he is only given medium type and a comparatively
subdued shriek on the bills. But Alexander is a sound
artist, nevertheless. To hear his playing of selections
from “Tannhauser” is worth a long journey on a
gradual Melbourne tram. At first Prince did not meet
with an enthusiastic reception from ’Arry’s patrons ; but
he has now established himself as a favorite, although
has had to make concessions in the way of playing “ I
Love a Lassie,” etc., after he has finished with Wagner.
"Theorbo”: The daughter of Mario, the great tenor,
in a biog. just published, has something to say on the
interesting subject of stage beards. Mario never allowed
a. razor to touch his face. He would only clip the beard
gracefully. And is it not the right thing for a really
magnificent man ? Don’t the women relish it most ? Far
more beard ought to be, at all events, stuck on for stage
biz. ; but actors are too lazy, or falsely vain. Bourchier
wears his own trimmings in Tree’s Henry VIII. Most of
the truly handsome French and Italian leading actors
wear beards, as with Mounet-Sully, Damala, and Majer-
oni. Certainly there is trouble at times. When Mario
was in St. Petersburg, Czar Nicholas I. commanded
him to shave. He wouldn’t—went instead and knelt to
the Czarina, with : “ Take my life, but spare my beloved
beard.” (Possibly he had an ugly mouth.)
said: “ The beard goes or you go.” Mario: “I go.” He
went.
“Char”: Thomas Beecham, musical conductor and
entrepreneur, though armed with the hereditary gift of
advertisement, finds he can’t sell his new line of boxes at
a guinea a time. He essayed three seasons of opera in
the vear, and though fairly successful in the summer at
His Majesty’s, his attempts at Covent Carden were dis-
astrous. Accordingly, he rails at the Great British Public,
which is absurd, because the G.B.P. has nothing to do
with the case. Grand opera is not a matter of music, or
art, or public taste ; it is solely a Society affair. Melba
was ill, or indisposed, one night of the season. The
charming and artistic Lalla Miranda sang the part, and,
according to the critics, sang it exceedingly well. But it
was no go. When Society learnt that its Melba was in-
disposed it simply emptied itself out, and wouldn’t empty
itself in again until she returned.
»@J. Bull, or Bullstein, has spent £200,000 on the Pal-
ladium, which occupies the site of old Hengler’s Circus,
in the English capital. The theatre is magnificently
appointed, and contains all manner of conveniences,
from the ordinary waiting-rooms to special tape-machines
conveying the latest news. The prices of admission will
range" from ss. to 6d., and the fare will be good and
varied. Millionaire Beecham, for instance, commences a
long season on January 30, staging a series of modern
operas ; and subsequently Lewis Waller, senior, Martin
Harvey, Isabel Jay, R. G. Knowles, Harry Lauder, etc.,
will be seen on the premises.
At Derbyshire (Eng.) four children were knocked down
and killed by a train as they were crossing a railway line
on Christmas Eve. The youngsters were singing carols
at the time. Still, all things considered, their punish-
ment seems a bit too severe.
The boiled-down essence of melodrama, as played at a
music-hall charity matinrie in London last month. Scene,
a happy home. Stranger walks in, and shoots owner and
wife dead ; then looks round and remarks: “ Well, well;
the wrong house ! ” Exit. Curtain. Time, Imiri. 30sec.
At the same show—which realised over £4OO for theatrical
charities—a skit on “ The Bad Girl of the Family” was
played by Wilkie Bard, Seymour Hicks and others. The
Referee says: “The players made use of slices of the
original script, perhaps because it is so difficult to bur-
lesque a Melvilleo drama; they are so funny in them-
selves, aren’t they ?”
Lawrence Campbell, who is in Maoriland giving a
series of recitals, has been telling that Rev. Charles Clark,
of delightful memory, did not glue himself to the truth
when he used to sav": “ I recite ‘ A Midnight Carol ’ in its
entirety. It is so human that if it were cut it would bleed.”
Campbell’s idea is that Clark cut the Dickens fantasy
considerably, as he used to finish it in an hour and three-
quarters, as against over two hours occupied by Camp-,
bell, who admits cutting “as judiciously as possible.”
It seems a depressing argument, anyhow. Hundreds of
people who heard Clark recite the poem are quite satis-
fied ; hundreds of others are so dead that it doesn’t
matter whether they are satisfied or not.
“ Star ”: The mummers’ favorite drinkery is a quaint
place of resort if you have a sense of humor; i)f
you lack that sense you may be aggravated to
the edge of homicidal mania within an hour. Trie
scene is usually a dim, dank back bar in a shabby,
unobtrusive pub, easy and accessible, and there
the small and early pros' congregate out of the sunlight
and exchange news, opinions and samples. The samples
are spots of effort out of this splendid part or that magni-
ficent creation, thrown off for the enlightenment of the
company, with lowering brow and awesome gestures. On
occasions as many as five rising or lowering actors will
be displaying samples simultaneously in one bar I wot of.
Trie barmaid is always pale and depressed, and she loathes
actors. Said she to me the other afternoon, very sadly :
“ That’s the worst of these actors ; they’re always working
at it.” For half an hour seven Hamlets had been engaged
in a pleasing exercise, each going through various
actions, accompanied by facial gymnastics, the others
guessing the idea he intended to convey. It must have
been very stimulating, for meanwhile seven half-pints
lingered "on the counter—the same seven half-pints all
the time.
“Harrison O.”: An item of absorbing interest is to
hand from , America. It appears that certain cats
alleged that Annette Kellerman, of the divine figure, was
padded. So Annette undertook to prove it was all
Kellerman. Therefore, at the Orpheum Theatre, Kansas
City, in the presence of 1000 women and 0 men, she
cut a long slit in her black silk tights, from her right
shoulder to its companion hip, and then took hold of
each side of the cut garment and spread it open. Where-
upon a tremendous cheer fractured Kansas City. Or, if
it didn’t, it would if the audience had consisted of 1000
males and 0 females.
“ Melb ” : The Lyric Picture Theatre, in Prahran (Vic.),
challenges the globe, in its line, for 1 beanty. The decora-
tion, in pale blue and pale pink, is most admirable. I
think even West and Spencer will admit it is a leetle
handsomer than their very handsome and larger theatres.
But it is large enough—it holds 2000. An entrepreneur
in this line tells me that Melbourne has the three largest
picture theatres of the world when West, Spencer and
Tait are all going in their cheek-by-jowl rivalry. The
reason is that first-class picture shows in America,
Britain and Europe are usually run in connection with
vaudeville, and not in exclusively picture theatres.
“S.S.” : Why is it that all the smartest acrobatic turns
are the work of foreign devils? Rarely do you come
across a really first-class team of English or even English-
speaking origin. The Pantzers, showing in Williamson’s
Melbourne panto., bill themselves as Americans; but
when the dominating Pantzer pants a few sentences at
the crowded and appreciative audience, he is found to
have an incriminating mid-European brogue, and his
English is broken into monosyllables. Even when a
striking acrobatic turn by British performers comes
along, it will generally be found to be of European
origin, “ done into English,” pirating being even more
common among tumblers than other vaudevillains.
“XXX”: Forgive the fogeys, with their talk of the
palmy days of the drama. To them the stage never is
what it was. I turned up a book 100 years old, when
Mrs. Siddons, Kemble and Kean were acting. It, too,
regretted the palmy days of the drama, with such as
Garrick and forgotten worthies like Betterton and Hen-
derson. When I was young-I went to see Brooke, and
thought him very bad—not a patch on Coppin as Jack
Robinson in “ The Cataract of the Ganges” and “The
Burning Wood of the Himalaya.” Barry Sullivan, whom
they quote to us so often, had a husky voice that went
regularly up and down like the switchback railway.
Then his walk, with the hinges on the knees, was a fear-
ful exaggeration of Atholwood’s. Irving seemed to copy
it. Still, in spite of it all, lam sorry for a disposition to
regard the latest acting as the best. There is no gloze,
no glamor, about it.
“Early Door”: Bernhardt, according to “advices re-
ceived,” recently had a wonderful reception in Chicago,
at the start of her six weeks’ American tour. One
frenzied interviewer exploded to the effect that a 68 year-
old Sarah isn’t a bit older than she was 50 years ago.
The only possible retort to that is a loud shout of
“ Fire !” —or something that rhymes with it. A week or
so back I met a returned voyager who saw her lately in
London. His emphatic verdict is “Awful!” Her old,
old voice in the long “L’Aiglon” speeches was a trial,
and drove him out of the theatre. It is very hard to get
critics to write sense where an elderly genius is cpn.
cerned. '
The Bleeck-Love battery, the Australian
invention which The Bulletin talked about some
time ago, is now on the market; theN.S.W. agency
is at 40 Clarence-street, Sydney. Professor Lyle,
of Melbourne University reported that it “ has a
much larger useful current capacity than that of
any cell I know of,” and that tallies with every
other account given of the remarkably useful and
handy invention. Every power-user—especially
every small power-user—should at least get infor-
mation about the Bleeck-Love.
Something that looks like the Limit in
compensation cases has been tried in an Adelaide
court. Mother sued father for the loss of her son
(and his), employed by him and accidentally
killed. It appeared that the youth and his
brothers paid a pound a week each into the family
treasury, and she wanted damages for the loss of
this. Husband and wife were hying apart, the
Judge assumed. Not a bit; they were a united
and happy family. Then what on earth could be
the good to her of a verdict against him? Then
counsel coyly explained that father was insured
against all compensation risks. It was really the
insurance co. that was defending the case, arguing
that a man could not be liable to his own wife in
respect of his own son. The Court settled, after
a long talk, that he could ; so husband and wife
are separate business propositions these times.
Verdict for £l5O accordingly.
“ Shipwright ” stops calking to remark
The evidence of one Pinel, who had been carpenter’s
mate aboard the lost ship YVaratah, that the lifeboats
were made of green wood and opened out in the tropics,
is not extraordinary. I have had to do with the life-
boats of many ships, and it is my experience that very
few new boats on new steamers can stand the fierce
heat of a tropical voyage. I’ve seen them arrive in
Australian waters in a state quite beyond the powers of
“ Chips ”to remedy. As a matter of fact, lam a pros-
pective witness in a threatened law suit concerning the
condition of the boats of a recently-arrived passenger
ship—a condition that horrified people at this end of the
voyage. - Practically they were split to bits. The trouble
is that the British boat-inakers, like the British bat-
nnkers, can’t get seasoned timber for their requirements ;
and, although a test match can be stopped while Victor
Trumper goes home for a fresh bat, a gale won’t even listen
to a suggestion for a postponement while another lifeboat
is obtained. Instead, it rages arid becomes more unrea-
sonable than ever. On the other hand, if you make the
trip in an old ship the boats may be rotten with age, and
you get drowned just the same. Of course, a person is
not necessarily bound to go upon the sea at all, but if
he stays ashore he might be run over by a butcher’s
cart, and there you are again. It is very difficult to keep
alive nowadays.
George Reid and his little brethren, the
States’ Agents-General, are “endeavoring to
secure from the Imperial Government a stand
from which Australians in London may view the
Coronation procession. The prices are to be
reasonable compared with those to be charged for
similar accommodation.” By the exceeding little-
ness of which idea the political services of the
High Commissioner and the half-dozen provincial
agents may be measured. The question that
occupies their minds now is how to effect a bargain
sale of seats for the benefit of Australian residents
and visitors in London who have got “ Corona-
tion” on the brain. Nominally, these official
frivollers are the representatives in Britain of
the interests of Australians in Australia ; but, as
a rule, they are mostly looking after the interests
of a few Australians in England. Their,applica-
tion for a special allotment of cheap seats is not
even Imperial in sentiment. The Imperialists’
complaint is that the inhabitants of Britain don’t
really know that are an English-
speaking race, with nothing foreign in their dress
and manners. Yet the same people who make
that complaint form an “Australian colony” in
London, and want to herd together on a bargain-
sale coronation stand. A Cockney crowd, gazing at
the stand reserved for “ Australians only ” would
naturally wonder what particular brand of
language had bound them in a bundle.
“ Henry Horsecollar ” writes :
The Yarra isn’t a large river—in fact, it is a very small
and muddy one. Yet—so it was stated at the Science
Conference last week—it carried down 207,000 tons of
tnud in 12 days during the flood of 1891. And it is carry-
ing down mud, though not at quite so great a rate, all
the time. And every' other river is carrying down mud.
In that brief story the end of the world can be foreseen,
for the mountains are being washed down into the low-
lands, and the lowlands into the sea. First of all, there is
the gradual loss of scenery as the big, airy hills disappear,
and with them go Highlanders, brigands, kilts, romance,
illicit whisky mills and most of the world’s art. It
is reckoned that there were mountains 50,000 or 100,000
feet high where Kalgoorlie now stands, but they have
weathered down and become of no account. As the earth
flattens out and grows brown and miserable, the rainfall
diminishes, and the inhabitants diminish, and in place of
the old legends and the old gods of the hills there are
dust-storms and roly-poly. But still the weathering-
down process continues, though more slowly because of
the lack of rain, and the earth gets nearer and nearer to
sea-level. The washings fill up the harbors with mud-
banks, and unwise men dredge these mudbanks,
and instead of trucking them back inland drop
them out at sea, and thus hasten the vanish-
ment of the only thing we have to stand on,
and our only basis of argument. In the end it
seems that every place will disappear except Holland, the
Dutchman having had sense enough to build a
wall round his country to keep it partly dry.
Possibly even it will go, and there will be half a
mile of sea on top of everything. The last man will
be up to his knees in water for some days before he finally
disappears, and his last bitter words will be to the effect
that things are a darned failure. But there will be
thousands of years of dull flat monotony before the end-
years of little rain, few people, no natural landmarks
except bushes and cows, endless straight flat roads, end-
less vistas of the nothing that lead through great dust
and waste of boot-leather to nowhere—years when
there will be no lights and shadows on the hills, no
waterfalls, no mists, no tunnels for trains to go through,
no Alpine Club except so much of it as can balance on
the kitchen chimney or walk on the roof, and no poetry.
In those slow horizontal ages even the risers will have to
be shoved to keep them moving over the slow horizontal
ground, and man will feel so very flat himself that he
won’t be sorry when it is all over. The very last book
will probably be a treatise on how it could all have been
prevented if people had only known.
A PRIM PASTORAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miles of winding paths disclosed numerous secluded
nooks wherein elves might fittingly disport themselves.
—Descriptive writer in weekly newspaper.
I wandered sadly,by myself 1
I wandered by myself. Ah me 1
I met a lonely little elf;
His costume was from neck to knee.
The time was dusk ; ’twas almost dark ;
He glanced at me—then glanced again.
A sign above bore this remark :
“ The elves sport here from 8 till 10.”
I questioned him without a qualm.
I said : “ What do you do, young elf ? ”
He softly said in some alarm :
“ I fittingly disport myself! ”
I fixed him sternly with my eye ;
Then from my purse a coin I drew.
“Here is threepence,” I said. “Good-bye.
And mind 1 Be careful that you do ! ’
n.s.w.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


OUR GREAT SUMMER SALE
Commences on Monday, January 23.
FNURING this Sale we intend to clear our surplus Summer Stock by marking the
VJ goods at positively astonishing price reductions. In addition to this we reduce
the price of everything throughout our house, except a few Proprietary lines.
WRITE FOR OUR SALE CATALOGUE.
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
tv ™ S R CatH,ogu ® is representative of our Sale. It is of immense importance to
Distant Buyers actually bringing the numerous advantages and sure economies of our
Sale right into their houses. We send it post free to any address upon application
le prices quoted in it are exactly as we would charge if you visited us personally, for
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all goods except Furniture Floor Covering, Kitchen and Hardware to anv part of
the Commonwealth. Only on Toys when ordered with other goods. '
DAVID JONES LTD.
• • •
SYDNEY
HOLIDAYS <&. the CAMERA
NO HOLIDAY IS COMPLETE WITHOUT A CAMERA.
If you desire to obtain the full enjoyment from your Holidays you should purchase one of
Harringtons* Cameras
gsfd
(which are selected from the World’s Leading- Makers).
YOU CAN PURCHASE A RELIABLE DAYLIGHT LOADING
CAMERA FROM 5/- UPWARDS.
A Pew of onr Specialities
£2 10s.
THE “ ENSIGN ” Model 000 Folding Pocket Camera,
for Daylight Loading* Roll Filins or Plates. Rapid Aplanat
Lens, Simplex Auto Shutter, etc. ; takes pictures 4£ x 3J.
£1 Is.
THE “ ENSIGN 11 3£ Box-Form Camera (beats all com-
petition out of sight). Takes Day/ight Loading Roll
Films, size 3£ x 3J. Achromatic Lens, Time and Instan-
taneous Shutter, Two-View Finders, Diaphragms, etc.
10s.
THE “ENSIGN” 2JB, similar to the
takes pictures 3£ x 2£.
3J “Ensign,” but
Send for our Fully Illustrated Catalogue {over hOO Pages).
Harringtons ltd.,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney. And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
® ' 1 Adelaide.
SOCIETY
Old Timer ” : “ Puketapu ” inquires for
the origin of the derisive word “Joe” used on
the Australian diggings in the early days. I was
on the N.S.W. diggings as early as January, 1852,
and although “Joe” was not in use then there
was a word ‘ Lamp-oh ! ” which meant the same
thing, it was used in the first place to give
notice of the coming of the Commissioner and his
mounted police to collect the monthly fee of 30s.
V a miner, when he was bailed up, had not his
license in his pocket or enough money to pay for
another, lie was run off to the police camp, put on
the chain (there was no lockup in those days),
and kept there till his mates could turn up with
either his license or the 30s. to pay for one. 1
although only a boy, had this experience. Natur-
ally the treatment was abominated ; so, as soon as
the Commissioner and the police were sighted,
the warning L unp-oh !” was passed from claim
to claim. It was the tyrannical manner in which
the fee was collected that led up to Eureka. When
I got to Victoria in the beginning of 1853 I found
•Joe used instead of “Lamp-oh ! ” but how it
originated I could never learn. In the first place
it was used in derision of the police. Later on it
was broadened, until if anyone was seen with any
peculiarity in his dress—for instance, a new chum
wearing a stove-pipe hat—he was “Joe’d.”
THE CANDID CRITIC.
THE DAUBE R: “I intend to make a good thing
of that. I’m yoiny to call it Beauty and
the Beast.’ ”
THE CRITIC ( a sportsman, dog-fancier and woman-
hater): " That's good! He is a beauty,
isn’t he ? ”
“Sr ” : I want to hear of 50 kindred souls
who will join me in a lawsuit against the Mel-
bourne post office clock, on the
ground that its alleged chimes
are a public nuisance and con-
trary to Section 1976 Z of
the Bad Sounds Act and
not necessary to its busi-
ness of keeping and re-
cording the hour o’ day.
Haddon, of Arma-
dale, recently got a
verdict against a
neighboringchurch
bell; so an injunc-
tion against the
post office chimes
ought to be easy.
At every hour, just
before the gong
strikes, the chimes
get to work—a sort
of cake-walk pre-
face. This intro-
duction is out of
tune ; in fact, if it
met tune it wouldn’t
know the goods bj-
sight. It misses
about three notes,
frightens horses,
and distractsdrunks,
business, and the
harmony of a big
city. Thehourchime
is bad; but the three-
hour musical con-
cert, just before 3, fi,
9 and 12 o’clock,
ante-meridian and
post-meridian, is too
bad. At these times
the clock goes in for
a verse or so. Some-
times it is “Home,
Sweet Home some-
times “Oh Where
and Oh Where Has
My Highland Lassie
Gone”; more often
than sometimes it is a
hymn. And such a blas-
phemy of song does the P.O.
clock perpetrate that 1 blush for its respectability.
Jiiven P.M.G. Thomas has been known to swear
at the hymn, it sounds so razzle-dazzley; and I
wish I could get his exact words for use in my law
case.
* * * *
A sab-committee of the TJ.S. House of
Representatives has decided that Commander
Peary really got to the North Pole. It had to
decide that he did, or give up the country’s claim
to an honor that has been hunted after for cen-
turies, for the other claimant—Dr. Cook—had
been so cursed and blithered and denounced and
blown upon by Peary and others that it was im-
possible to put him forward again as a serious
I ol.ir discoverer. If the sub-committee resolved
that the North Pole still awaited a finder,
the chances were that in the rush of British,’
French, Norwegian, Italian and other adven-
turers the honor would presently be snatched on
such good evidence that the matter would be
settled for ever. Moreover, if the verdict had
been returned that two U.S. Polar discoverers
were utter frauds, no Yankee explorer would ever
again be believed unless lie took with him a J.P.
and a Commissioner of Affidavits. There are, so
far as the writer can estimate, only four very’big
honors available in the exploring line—to be first
man at one of the Poles, first man at the bottom
of the deepest ocean, first man at the centre of the
earth, and first man to visit one of the adjacent
planets (it being understood in each case that the
first man must get back alive). So the sub-com-
mittee of the House of Representatives, being
asked to decide whether or not its country
had scored a stupendous and unique victory
decided that it had. All the same the
evidence is against Peary. There are five
points that require heaps of consideration:
(1) Ihe only reliable white witness—the only
scientific man of the party who could have verified
Peary’s claims—was carefully left far behind.
Peary alleges that this was done out of meanness
and jealousy, but it may have been done simply
because a gross fake was intended. Anyhow a
man who accuses himself of what Peary does
looks mean enough to do the thing that
some other people accuse him of (2)
Peary couldn’t have got to the Pole unless
he travelled, when away from his only
reliable witness, at the rate of some
oO miles a day, and he never managed
to do more than nine miles a day when with his
rehalfie witness. This is a horrible discrepancy
(d) He was a man well on in years, and was prob-
ably making his last attempt; it was time to win
or to say he had won, and get out of the game.
® declared oefore starting that lie would
reach the Pole this time, and even fixed a date
about which lie would be back at his base. That
represented either sublime self-confidence or a
resolve to say he had got there whether lie had or
not. (5) Ihe tribunal which tried him had every
inducement to be biassed. Still, all this sordid
row has dirtied the North Pole and made it hardly
worth discovering. The next man who gets there
will feel as might a knight of old if he had found
themoly grail and there was boded pork in it.
SHE KNEW
WILLIAM.
SALVATIONIST ( to young widow): “ Your husband
is so happy now-beating cymbals with the
angels all day long."
WIDOW (doubtfully): “ Bill's more likely beating
one of the any els."
Beautiful description of Socialism ascribed
by London Daily Nkws to Justice Grantham at
the Surrey Assizes :
Henry Harris, convicted of shooting at Frederick and
Harry Gray, at Mitcham Fair, was sentenced to 10 years’
penal servitude. Mr. Justice Grantham said it was a
example of what would prevail under Socialism.
There would be no ownership of property, everybody
would be seizing the first bit they could get hold of, and
then somebody else would come along and shoot them or
fight them for it. What would be the result? General
disorder throughout the country.
Ihe Bulletin noticed the same
thing only yesterday morning. A
man rushed up to the State rail-
way station.- “Here,” he said
to the station-master, “what’re
you doing here?” and stabbed
him fatally in 11 places with
a soldering-iron. He hadn’t
been in possession more
than two minutes before
somebody else came up.
“ Hello,” this one said,
“nice bit of property this,”
and battered the first one
with a waiting-room. Some-
body had unfortunately
wanted the 8.20 train for a
fowl-house, so The Bulletin
had to wait 10 minutes ; and
by the end of that time the
bleeding corpses were 11
storeys high. However, this
\yas an unusually busy morning. If Justice Gran-
tbam called in on an ordinary morning he wouldn’t
find the corpses more than nine storeys high.
But there are always a lot more at the G.P.0., it
being so much more valuable a block. One day
last week the Judge wouldn’t have been able to
tell the time by the clock in the tower, the bleed-
ing remains were piled so high against it.
* * * *
It isn t all beer and billiards showing new
immigrants round and pointing them out the lay
of the land and the general hang of things. One
of Victoria s new citizens was taken up to a
northern district lately, and next day told the
“local correspondent ” that, though climate and
people were all right, he wasn’t favorably im-
pressed with the land. “The place should have
been made more homelike by planting trees and
putting up brick houses, covered with ivy for
shelter, thus giving the settler a home to hand on
to his children.” That poor man doesn’t seem to
ic&iist/ what he is wanted here for.
“ Ben Telbow ” : When “Henry Horse-
collar ” has got his Minister for Grace and Ele-
gance, I want him to help me to get a Minister
for Tone and Harmony. This officer should have
power to abolish motor horns, and replace them
with silver bells; to have all newsboys and
barrow-men taught singing, and to fine them
heavily if they go sharp or flat. For this pur-
pose it would be necessary to arm the police with
tuning forks. Then, too, the unnerving rattle-sf
trollies and drays could be eliminated if all hoife
and vehicles were shod compulsorily with rubber.
(I bought in at the top of the rubber boom, and'
want to get my money back.) It should be within
the provinceof the Minister for Tone and Harmony
to arrest all German bands, bagpipers, barrel and
mouth organists, cornet players and .second-hand
piano dealers. They could be profitably employed
in ridding the Northern Rivers of’alligators and
in blasting the prickly pear. All pianos contain-
ing over 35 per cent, of tin sho.uld have their
innards removed, and cracked church bells caught
in the act should have their necks wrung. Thus
would the hideous jar and clang of the city be
stilled ; the air would vibrate only with sweet
sounds, and nothing distracting would remain but
the aroma of the fried fish shop and the odor of
stale beer. To deal with these effectively it would
be necessary to appoint a Minister for Scents and
-Perfumes.
* * * *
Apparently, the same poor little spirit
which blocks Greater Sydney is ready to be
a fly on the wheel of the Australian National
movement. Thus the Redfern Municipal Coun-
cil recently received a request from the Common-
wealth for the occasional use of a room in the
local Town Hall to enrol men for the defence of
Redfern and other parts. Some of the aldermen
were enthusiastically in favor of granting the
application, on the ground that defence was the
first duty of everybody in the country ; but the
best they could get the majority to agree to was
to grant the use of the room for ss. a week.
Some big-minded alderman, however, insisted on
Shylock s pound of cash, and successfully raised
the point that the council hadn’t the power to
reduce the fee of 10s. a night nominated in the
bond. At latest, Mayor Leiteh, a good Aus-
tralian, had given notice of his'intention to kick
the bond to the nearest rubbish tip, and allow the
Australian Defence Department all the facilities it
wants free and for nothing. If the council weren’t
a poor little parish-minded, insect it would also
throw in three cheers and its best blessing.
* * * ,
Said the Maoriland labor-union official:—
Never aspire to be a union secretary, sonny ; his is the
fives of Judas and Cain and a Maori kuri rolled into one.
Your unionists are always suspicious of you ; your rivals
intrigue to get you the sack at the yearly election ; and
the public regards you as a long-haired Anarchist with a
scorching desire for the explosion of the peace. If a
secretary buys a new hat or a brass collar stud or
appears with a clean face, his fellow-laborites swear
(behind his back) that he is exploiting them, or has been
purchased by the plutocrats; if he presses a dilatory
member for his subscription, the member announces
with a great noise, that the secretary is no true demo-
crat. And all the time there is the other aspirant indi-
cating your weak points and extolling his own virtues.
It sounds a good deal like stinking fish. All the
same; there is a deal of suspiciousness, and its full-
brother, petty jealousy, and it alienates from the
Labor cause in Maoriland many able men who
are not manual workers, and thereby assists J.
Ward to indulge in his perennial trips to the
pawnshops of Cold Kingland.
THE SOLUTION.
LADY CANVASSER : “ And what do you think of
the Temperance question, Mrs. Jones ? "
MRS. JONES : “ Well, as I says to Georye only
yestiddy, they'll never do no good till they
shut up all the publichouses and make all the
barmaids barmen."
Some of the young rapscallions who have
to interview the Sydney Children's Court know
enough scripture to lay out the L)evil in an argu-
ment. One, the other day, was up for being an'
incorrigible wanderer from home. The Court—
always paternal—talked to the boy earnestly. He
had been to Sunday-school, he said. “Now, what
is that Commandment which refers to your
parents?” the Court asked, and waited for—
“ Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days
may be long upon the land.” But the kind" court
waited in vain. Instead, the incorrigible 13-year-
old promptly Quoted—the seventh.
LONG LINES AND HARD ONES, CAMERADOS !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Written immediately on receipt of the news that 1200
Sydney gas employees had struck. (The men returned to
work soon after.)
Let us make rhymes, camerados. The gas man has struck
for some reason ; but we need not mourn, camerados
at least, 1 will not mourn nor upbraid him !
For why should I mourn, camerados t I have gas enough
to go on with ; and though I won’t light, camerados,
this outburst (who knows?)may persuade him
That we who are walking in darkness are willing and
ready to meet him and call him our own, camerados.
He may take the compliment badly
And deal out a full pack of stousli. Oh! but what
matters it, camerados, if afterwards he feels relieved
and returns to his gas-making gladly?
Sapristi! (That’s Greek, camerados.) My English runs
out when I’m writing! Consomme! Hoch! Cafi
au Lait! Yes, it’s handy to know all the meanings—
The menu cards help me a lot, and the novels (cheap
paper editions) are full of cheap foreign remarks. In
my scrap-book I've pasted such gleanings.
The gas-man I would have assailed with these words so
suggestive of travel and places where food is served
hot, to the scuffle of waiters and chatter,
But I really could not fit them in, as the poem was ordered
with rhymes. But I hear, camerados, a faint voice
and far, saying, “ It doesn't matter ! ”
N.S.W.
TONY ICK-CREAMA DE WHIT.


N
a
/
10,000,000
tabletsof
light Soap are
sold every week
this is the high* ,
est possible proof
that Sunlight
Soap comes up
to expecta-
tions.
/
\
NO. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 67.
Hunyadi,
Janos r
Is the Best «
Natural Aperient Water 1
Bottled at the Springs J
k Used the World Over i
I Drink on arising a wineglassful for M
INDIGESTION and
nrcrciTT
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
If you want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can.buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade ; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
This Black Box Calf Boot 25 -
(Posted 1/- extra).
This is a boot we guarantee will give
you every satisfaction —it has extended
medium round toes, rope stitched, with
wide welted double soles, and is lined
with leather. Sixes 5 to 10.
We send to every buyer of this boot
a pot of Dressing that makes it easy
to keep the boot clean and the leather
flexible.
»r®“
I
PEAPES (& CO. ETD.
“ Men's
Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The amazing allegation of “ Regent
Re the wonderful improvement that has taken place in
Australian railway management during the last few
years, The Bulletin will, I’m sure, be glad to know that
the engine which brings the train from Mount Gambier
to Wolseley (S.A.) on the narrow-gauge line, has to pro-
ceed to Bordertown (18 miles) in order to be turned for
the return journey.
* * * *
The sort of horrible death that a wowser
might invent, if a wowser could be a brilliant
short-story writer, actually occurred near Tanunda,
in the S.A. wine district, the other day. A
gardener, over-full, left a friend’s house one
night. Then, going down hill, he stumbled and
fell, with his face in his soft hat. After that he
was sick, and when they found him he was dead
from suffocation.
SUMMING UP THE MISSUS.
SHE: "Is your wife entertaining this season?"
H E : “ Um—not very.”
In regard to capital punishment,
it is a question whether the English or
French fashion of treating the con-
demned is the more cold-blooded. In
England and Australia he is told the
exact hour and day on which he is
to be passed out. In France he is left
in ignorance till the morning of the
fatal day. Our condemned can confine
themselves to thinking what it will be
like; the French criminal devotes his
attention to the query—when ? Pro-
bably the bitterness of death is past
with the average English victim when
the actual morning arrives; anyway,
there is much press assurance that
the “condemned man ate a hearty
breakfast” and was “apparently re-
conciled to his fate.” In the case of
Doilin, who was guillotined at Le Mans
(France) in November, here is what
happened (Le Petit
Journal) : At five
past six on the morn-
ing the procureur of
the republic, with
other officials, found
the prisoner lying
awake, having just
finished eating some
apples. The pro-
cureur said: “Doilin,
your appeal for
mercy has been re-
jected; your punish-
ment must now be
exacted.” But Doilin
did not understand;
so his counsel, who
was present, flogged
his recollection with:
“Your execution
takes place this
morning. Buck up!”
or words in French
to that effect. (Aytz
du courage!) Then
“ prisoner trembled convulsively,” and asked if
he wag “going to have his neck cut.” When
assured that,he was, he devoted himself to religion,
sent messages to his relatives, made a parole will,
heard mass, refused breakfast but took a glass of
white wine, asked for and received coffee apd
cognac, smoked two cigarettes and demanded a
pipe, and gave directions for his interment; and
at 7 o’clock, muttering “I always thought that I
would come to the guillotine ! I have never had
a chance in my life ! ” he kissed the crucifix,and
in three seconds his head had rolled into the
basket.
* * * *
The third quarterly number of Isidore
Kozminsky’s Antiquarian Gazette, published
in Melbourne, opens with an editorial plea for the
protection of amateur antiquarians from the im-
porters of fraudulent “old” china, pictures,
brasses, silver, etc., which come through the Cus-
toms without warning marks or labels on them.
Some of the pictures even bear the bogus signa-
tures of Old Masters; and bits of china are
stamped with forged symbols. Seeing “it is
from places oversea that almost all of this
stuff comes,” the Antiquarian thinks there
should be some means of checking it at the
Customs. It seems a fair proposition too.
A Government whose Commerce Act de-
mands the honest description of goods
can’t very well swallow a faked picture
with a forged name on it. The one object
of the fake and the forgery must be to
swindle some Australian, and the present
Government, at any rate, isn’t in league
with swindlers, and especially foreign
swindlers with designs on Australians.
How these men love to picture themselves
in fancy dress ! The presentation made to Wat-
son, the new Clerk of Yic. Leg. Council, by his
late colleagues of the “lower” House, was “a
large and handsomely-framed photographic
group” of themselves, clothed in all the buttons,
braids and other fal-de-rals pertaining to the
officers and staff of a State Parliament establish-
ment. Watson, C.M.G., will be expected to hang
this trophy on the wall of his official sitting-rbom
or domestic dining-room, and gloat upon the spec-
tacular effect of his former comrades in livery. ’The
same thing happens to all sorts of citizens in
figure-head positions. A “Master” of Free-
masons, Oddfellows, Foresters, or what hot is
presented with a large, gilt-framed photographic
group of a lot of other officers in the aprons,
sashes and etceteras sacred to the order. The
president of a football, rowing or cricket club
gets a photographic group of flannelled heroes
pressed upon his acceptance sooner or later.
Even a boss warehouseman is likely to be
afflicted with a collection of portraits of
the staff arrayed in their Sunday suits. The
personal vanity of human male-kind is seem-
ingly the inspiration of these presentations.
When women conspire to buy a souvenir for an-
other woman it takes the form of something use-
ful or ornamental, as a rule. But the men clutch
at any flimsy excuse to offer their portraits, in a
framed group, where solid goods would be gladly
received. And if they can see their glorified
selves smirking in a shop window before the pre-
sentation is made, their happiness is complete.
IN SYDNEY'S NARROW WAYS.
HAWKER (to motor-man): “Hey, Guv’nor, d'yer
want all the road?”
r _.
The poor old Waratah—it is difficult to see
what else it could do than go to the bottom !
Judging by the cabled evidence at the inquest on
its missing bones, it was built of contradictions,
and its cargo consisted chiefly of anomalies ; also,
it carried 200 tons of discrepancies on the spar
deck, the bunkers being full. The Waratah was
a rigidly upright boat which rolled heavily.
It was a slift craft—that is to say, it was
slow and swift at the same time. It went
backwards and forwards simultane-
ously. Everybody on board was
horribly pleased with it and filled
with miserable admiration. In a
metaphorical sense the vanished
ship was a tall dwarf, a drunken
teetotaler, and a truly Chris-
tian devil. The captain didn’t
1 ike it, judging by the
things he said to men whom
lie never met in his life ;
but, on the other hand,
his letters to persons who
died before he was born
expressed the most pro-
found confidence. Some
witnesses held that the
Waratah was too high,
but ethers testified that
the Waratah itself was
all right—it was really
the water that was too
low. If the sea could
have been raised with a
crowbar everything would
have been correct. A
vessel which passed the
Waratah shortly before its
vanishment was immedi-
ately torn by internal dis-
sensions. Most of the crew
almost wept through admira-
tion at the vessel’s amazing
steadiness and were unable to
eat any dinner owing to their
emotion, while the ship’s boy
reckoned it was almost lying on
its side and looked like capsizing
any moment. It was pointed out, by
way of rebuttal, that the ship’s boy was on
bad terms with the officers; but then the
officers were on equally bad terms with the
boy, so things were even. Anyhow, the poor old
contradictory ship is gone—vanished amid a whirl
of testimony, and anchored in David Jones’s grave-
yard, where all the drowned kedge anchors lie
awaiting the day of resurrection. Excessive
stability appears to have been its ruin.
■*•***
The Murray State railways have to swallow
another bushel of trouble as the result of Judge
Moule’s decision that the Department is respon-
sible for some bush and grass fires which broke
out soon after the Benalla to Melbourne train had
passed, and did damage to the extent of about
£20,000. So far, 55 claims have been lodged,
totalling £15,000, and up to date 35 have been
settled for £6500. Of course, it isn’t only this fire
that worries the heads. The thing happens al-
most daily, and the Department would give the
price of two bush fires for a reliable spark arrester.
The story of the bomb-throwing Anarchists
who were burnt to death in a house at White-
chapel, London, is boiling down to a tale of police
panic. What time 1000 policemen and a detach-
ment of soldiers were besieging their place of
refuge, the alleged Anarchists were said to be
throwing bombs out of window. Now it appears
that the mysterious missiles were not bombs, but
“ merely tubes of the kind used in the making of
buttons.” Probably the occupants of the besieged
premises were some terror-stricken Russian Jews
in the tailoring trade, who happened to be
acquainted with somebody who was suspected of a
murder. They are now much too dead, how-
ever, to tell any tales or make any explanations—
which, as likely as not, is very fortunate for the
police.
* * # *
Now it turns out that the Three Kings,
where the Elingamite finished, are wrongly placed
on the Admiralty chart, and that the error is big
enough to be dangerous. The officers of the
Powerful made the discovery during a recent call
at the famous danger-spot, and the matter was
considered important enough to be promptly
attended to. The flagship at Wellington had a
wireless talk with the Cambrian, lying at Auck-
land, the result of which was that the little
cruiser got up steam and left hurriedly to re-
survev the rocks, and put them on the chart
where they ought to be.
INCONSTANT FBED.
ALICE : “ Yes, I heard of Fred's marriag e
Wasn’t it mean of him ? You know our
engagement was never really broken off. He
just went for a trip to America, and I
married another man.”
Realistic touch from the prospectus of a
new aeroplane, published, the Other day, in
Sydney: \“The machine has been tested, and
proved successful beyond the most sanguinary
expectations.” The exact amount of bloodshed
is not, however, stated.
THE MORNING’S MILK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No person shall keep, or carry, or place any milk for
sale or in course of delivery to any customer so as to have
it exposed to flies or dust.” This regulation is, however,
very much neglected. The measures in which milk is
carried from the cart to the house are often without pro-
tection of any kind, and become coated with dust. So
much is this the case that, on one occasion, an inspector
endeavoring to take a sample, the pint measured out to
him was so filthy with dust that the vendor voluntarily
threio it dway, remarking that it was too dirty !—Com-
forting city neivs item.
The dawn has given place to the Day,
And the cock has sung his roundelay,
As the merry milkman goes his way,
With rattle and clink of can ;
And the weary copper on his beat
Wakes in the quiet, little street
And stamps his dusty, frozen feet—
(’Tis his alarm, poor man !).
All night the westerly has boomed,
And half the State has been well broomed,
Apd the city’s atmosphere is gloomed
With dust and smoke and filth ;
Ten trillion germs are on the wing
To work the will of the Typhoid King,
This rollicking, frolicking morn in Spring—
But where shall they find their tilth ?
The roofs are cold and the pavements hard ;
There are better spots than a clean, bare yard.
And a copper’s boots don’t win regard
From germs that desire to mate ;
A few,-by luck, may get to the mains,
But only germs of inferior brains
WiH'make a start in suburban drains.
Now, where can they propagate?
Milk 0 ! Fresh Milk ! And the joyous cry
Appeals to the trillions swirling by ;
Ah ! now they will be as right as pie—
In ! In to the open tins !
And long ere the copper for home has steered,
Like the oil that ran down Aaron’s beard
The trillions have softly disappeared. . . .
’Tis thus the great world spins !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
THE VERY SENSIBLE WU-TING-FANG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vancouver, Wednesday Night.— Acting on a message
from the Wu-Ting-Fang, the Chinese in San Francisco
will cut off their pigtails on January 30.— Cable.
When the heathen.get a message from the Wu-Ting-Fang
They all amputate their pigtails where the Blamed*
Things-Hang;
By this cutting revolution
This Celestial institution
Shows how sensible and useful is a Wu-Ting-Fang.
Let us form a Branch Australian of the Wu-Ting-Fang,
And draw up a little message for the Hat-Pin-Gang ;
Let us tell each savage ladyi
That to pin her hat so shady
With a spear is not agreeable to the Wu-Ting-Fang.
To preserve our precious eyesight let us Wu-Ting-Fang ;
It is brutal and inhuman, but I Feel-No-Pang ;
Though I know the thing Will rile ’em,
Still I hate the Blind Asylum.
So Whafforl and send your names in for a Wu-Ting-
Fang !
N.S.W.
Ah Too Soon.


PERCH IN THE YARRA.
A number of Murray perch have been
liberated in the River Yarra lately, it is
very desirable to obtain information re-
garding the growth and movements of
the fish, several of whom were labelled.
The label used consists of a section of
fine silver wire, having on one end a
plain circular silver disc, and on the
other end another silver disc bearing
a number and some lettering.
- if' Would be befftr
me 'fb m&Kft a, 11 Ibe , -
- JL for you 'to Comc di^oui s«cl 'to tfe i
Poctof ' v/lit"W2v>3*^"
'fishbone a^ffcr
or* ly a, _
•s c •
OPPOSITION ||||"'“
An important conference took place
yesterday at Parliament House between
the leader of the Opposition in the _
Federal Parliament, Mr. Deakln, and
>his colleague, Mr. Joseph Cook, with
: reference to the organisation of the cam- ,
: : paign in connection with the constitu-
: tional referendum. 5
TiCcr Am* , t7ON/
prr, e*|3io<le<i "V 1 *? .
])^] ones 0 ne5 .A
- Beer. Knoci<»H2M^g<
xVoa'T
»t Iff*
any „ j-
SbvK —' T?*r e $°
sOrr?C re^'s>°^ m O-
e <
«V 1
LOSS OF THE WaRATaH.
QUESTION OF HER STABILITY
REASSURING EVIDENCE.
gd sdfgsdf
• ui », *<, moTSrmo V»“
Vo«"? Vic i - H's *> S M‘ ' J -ri,iKop SO"? "*»
y Vr nr^^irJ fr “ q
v.i» *»« t'y IW ® •
WE*:- 'AW\ More
oT'
gooelNVill lty<£
>*r, ' S°J>f7o^e
At the maternity hospital his
Excellency was introduced to a
three-hours-old infant, which,
he remarked, was the youngest
Australian he had yet met.
’ A m <
I«fercs'itnp Cu/»o . 1$ *'f"~
for S^>«
The Premier (Mr. Murray), in an>
nouncing the step yesterday, said that it
was essential that all those who are in
opposition to the Labor Government
proposals should fall into line for the
fight that is coming on.
Ql\y W b ere "trie^
'Yo frem»Gi'^l »**
tfrjf "f* 11, ’>2 ;) "’ ,to
line. ~^> e
of/ t>U*< 7 'Y/fft
vn| p^« wt %*4j
-itfe. of 'ttje ~
dull, V c Ke.»> , “t6u4
SHARKS, TIGERS AND OTHER VICTORIAN CURIOS.


GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and bearing's.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. l 2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
Whole Pearl and Choice
Diamonds, £l2/12/*
Diamond* and Emerald,
£l4/14/-
1 Sapphire and Rest
.Diamonds, £lO.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and Pendants, and Jewellery generally, at pi ices
never before attempted in Australia.
WHY? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have
to live up to it, and so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the actual st.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House iu Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Austra ,r : I’ll back the ’possum I have
to be as unlike the ordinary ’possum as the ordi-
nary ’possum is unlike a sheep-dog pup. Caught
the mother in a trap, and, as joey was too young
to skin or to let go with a hope of earning a living,
I kept the little lady till such time as she could be
safely entrusted to make her way in the world.
When that time came, however, she refused to
leave. I put her on a tree and tried to poke her
up the branches with a stick ; but she merely
raced back to my shoulder. Frequently I tried to
desert her, with as little success. She made straight
for the house every time. Tucker? Anything but
gum leaves. Porridge and milk are first favorites ;
after that bread, brownie and lean meat. When
I was at school I was taught that ’possums could
not see in the,■sunlight; this one will play about
in the light with the children until tired. A. S.
Le Souef, of Sydney, asserted recently that
’possums could be confined by a galvanisd iron
fence 3ft. high as they cannot spring upward.
This poss I’m speaking of, although quite a
youngster, and despite constant discouragement,
hops from the floor to the table, a height of pre-
cisely 2ft. 9in. If she can’t do the even yard by
the first of next month I am going to pull her to
the top of the highest gum tree hereabouts with a
forest devil and then run. Then we won’t be
disturbed from three to 13 times during our
few hours of rest, nor have the milk bucket and
camp oven robbed nightly, nor the flour bag
burgled between meals.
THE RIVAL.
Penny for the blind man."
[?]lin' man ! Bet yeh sishpensh he ishn’t blinder
n I am.”
“J.T.T.”: lie “Mimosa’s” inquiry
(B. 8/12/TO) for instances of Australian animals
or birds that are naturally able to count. The
crow can count up to two, but not three. Budge
was an expert crpw-slayer, and erected a bush
shelter near a dead jumbuck, upon which a school
of crows were busy. The guileful Budge then
went that way ostensibly for a load of firewood;
and after sending off his mate with the wood, he
took cover. But the crows declined to venture
near the remains of the lunch, and Budge had to
depart without getting a shot. Next trip for
wood, Budge was accompanied by two mates in
addition to the gun. Again the sportsman se-
creted himself and waited while the other two
went off with, the cart. When they were well out
of sight, down came the crows with a full head of
confidence, and two barrels from the hidden gun
dropped nine.
UP TO DATE.
Steps are now being taken to give a higher education to the aborigines in Queensland.-Darii Paper.
SQUATTKK’S WIFE: “ You bin wuntit washin, Mary !"
MABIE (icily): “Excuse me, madam, I was under the impression that your husband required
a typist.”
“ Puketnpu ” : I suspect this yarn to be a
rotten lie ; but Pll tell it just as the ex-assistant
hangman told it to me over a bottle of rum in a
small Maoriland pub on the northern gumfields
It’s as true as gospel. Bound I was, as I tell you, for
five vears to the hangman in Manchester (England). An’
why not? There didn’t ought to be nothin’ dergradin’
about that. Auy’ovv, dergradin’or not dergradin’, 1 was
'is bound apprentice, and I’ll say this fer ole ’Urrv
Up, as he was known to one an’ all, a cove
couldn’t wish fer a more considerate boss.
Fer the fust year I didn’t have nothin’ interestin’
to do but keep ’Urry Up’s favorite ropes supple
with grease-rags, and small jobs like that; but in the
second year I got er lift to oilin’ the trap-’inge and lever.
In the third year I was the reg’lar assistant. The wust
part I bated was pullin’ down the cap when the bloke
looked at you as much as to say, “ Whin I git you in ’ell,
old cock, I’ll give yer rope and soap.” No, I never
cottoned to that part of the craft, and as a matter
er fact it was the means of me losing me job.
There was a young piece to be stretched—a
nice quiet bit o’ goods—and everything went as slick as
lard l ill I goes to pull the white bag over ’er head. Then,
like a ’ungry cat she lays ’old of me thumb with her
teeth and heid on like death. Y’ can take it from me I
performed, but it were no good ; but presently old ’Urry
tip gives her a squeeze on the gullet, and she lets go.
Then ’e starts fixia’ her toilet, and what with being narked
and one thing and another, I pulls away the bolt too
soon and the whole gang goes shootin’ down t.her pit.
’Urry Up goes first, and lobs the bottom, but the priest
grabs the rope and the young piece grabs him. That
saves her life outter the jawrs of death, as the sa.vin’ is.
Well, I got the bullet and the young piece got a parding,
an’ the public passed the ’at, round and put in a ’undred
quid fer me and the piece. Substequently we got spliced,
so things wasn’t too rotten, was they ! After that, they
give us a free passage to ’ere, anil ’ere we are. You
oughter come up and see us while you’re ’andy. The
missus wouldn’t mind.
“ Konini ” : Up till yesterday I thought
the Abo discussion, concerning the Maori’s misuse
of English, was being conducted by a number of
intelligent persons who had travelled as far as
Maggie Papakura’s show at Olontarf, and finished
the excursion at a Dago fish-shop in the Strada
Georgio. I was convinced of the truth of this by
the assertion and sworn declaration of several of
the writers that Henare hitched “a” to the
tail of a number of his words, such as
“hava,” “ belonga ’’ and a few others.
That, said I, is a libel on old Henare;
because I’ll bet my family mere that he’s no
Pedro. And, having lived with Henare for
the past considerable number of years, I thought
I knew. Apparently I do not, for I find that
A. A. Grace, a Maoriland pakeha who has written
a great deal on the native race, and has nrnde a
more or less careful study of it. is on the side of
“ Kowhai ” and a few other Abos who charge
Henare with using the language of the steaka-da-
ovst territory. In his latest book, “Hone Tiki
Dialogues,” Grace writes such sentences as these :
“T'e pfeller belonga t’e hotel tell me I miss t’e train.”
“T’ey takee t’e land, I tskee t’e money.”
“He no t’e capiten any longa.”
“One night heimakee t’e play wit t’e girl, nex’ night
he trinkee t’e peer.”
“ T’e plenty hat, t’e plenty petticoat!.”
“I bring Makareta into t’e towna.”
I’ve never met the Dago Maori, though that is no
proof of his non-existence. Perhaps he hangs out
on the 90-mile beach with Garibald’ and some
of the other boys, playing the mandolin and eat-
ing da macaron’ bv night and catcha da feesh by
day. If he’s not there, I’m hanged if I know
where to find him.
“Snell” : There was a great old row in
front of the fine stucco home of Yacob Picklestein,
at St. Kilda, on Christmas Eve. Colter was go-
ing home at about midnight, with his wife and his
sister-in-law, when a dispute arose concerning the
shocking unfairness and pitiful lack of Christian
sympathy which Mrs. Colter’s elder sister had
shown in distributing a small supply of beer in a
billy. Mrs. Colter’s elder sister saw at a glance
that it was not a matter that would bear talking
about, and slapped Colter in the jowl with a
shoulder of lamb. Colter took it in bad part, and
struck his sister-in-law with 12 eggs in a fruit
bag. The pair got into holts, and squealed and
yelled and protested. Mrs. Colter gr.pped
her sister’s back hair with her left, and
battered Colter
over the head
with a dead hen,
an impartial pro-
ceeding for which
she received no
thanks. Her hus-
band bit her and
her sister kicked
her. Mrs. Colter
swelled the
chorus with
bleating and re-
current screams.
The row raged
fearfully for
seven and a half
minute s, and
then Yacob
Picklestein did a
flat-footed two-
step down the
path, thrust half
a crown in Col-
ter’s hand, and
said: “See here,
mein friendt, go
avay and sing
and dance someveres else, for Heaven’s sake.
You’re the ninth lot of Chrismis vaits I’ve paid
off this blessed night! ”
* * * *
“Grand Slam”: “ Minaritchee” (B.
1/12/10) puts his foot still further into the mire
when he denounces “Leo Lear’s” assertion re-
garding shade-distributing trees. He ventures
the opinion that the evil-smelling gidya, of the
interior, casts a shade impenetrable by sun-ray.
If he ever humped Matilda in the backblocks of
N.S.W. and Queensland he should know better.
The wilga, supplejack and kurrajong come in
lengths ahead of the obnoxious gidva, and afford
a shade as good as any to be found in the Austra-
lian bush. I would camp in the shade of a wire-
netting fence as soon as doss beneath the lattice
of a gidya. “Minaritchee” goes still further.
He boldly asserts that the vicinity of his beloved
tree harbors no ants. Why, the busliman’s most
reliable forecast of rain is based on the fact that
ants ascend these trees before a downpour.
“A. William-Cann ” : “Jimmie Panni-
kin ” asks me (B. 29/12/10) to throw a light on
(1) “the way to dodge bugs in neglected bed-
rooms”; (2) “the best means of defeating mos-
quitoes.” To the first task I must frankly own
myself unequal. Ido not frequent “ neglected ”
bedrooms. My wayback home, though humble,
is clean. If one of the Norfolk Howard
breed appeared in my humpy, it would be
slain on sight. How naively “Pannikin”
betrays his city upbringing and habits by
the suggestion that the Norfolk Howard should
not be exterminated but merely “dodged” ! In
regard to the misleading of mosquitoes, various
schemes have been tried. The subject recalls to
me an early memory. In a sweltering Merrivva
bar I came suddenly upon a Bulletin bush
expert. In his right hand he held a sprig of
wattle, in his left a glass of beer. His bugle re-
posed symbolically on the counter near him. He
was dogmatising on bush lore to an audience com-
posed of Birtles, the late Ernest Favenc, old
Maher (who has run Collaroy station for the past
25 years), Jimmy Governor (then regarded as
the most knowledgable bushman within 200
miles of Cassilis), a couple of hard-bitten,
elderly swaggies, seven dogs, and about
8,000,000 flies. Noticing that the orator’s face
wore a mottled look, I spoke a few words after
the manner of Judkins. “It isn’t beer,” he said,
curtly, “ it’s mosquitoes.” One of the company—
I fancy it was Favenc —suggested that the suf-
ferer should disguise himself as a bushman. No
sooner said than done. Reft of his bowler hat,
umbrella, boiled shirt, patent-leather boots and
other accessories, the George-street wattle-hunter
looked the part fairly well. The local mosquitoes
were baffled. In a few days the bush-expert’s
visage went back to normal. Perhaps it was as
well. Had this experiment failed there was a
feeling in the town in favor of burying the top
half of the expert in the pub tank for not less
than 20 minutes, with the object of misleading
the mosquitoes into 1 the belief that he was a
corpse. Mosquitoes don’t attack corpses—a tip
which is hereby presented to “ Pannikin ” as a
New Year’s gift.
*'* * *
“ Strathnaver ” : So far as I know, the
Westralian gold rushes of the early ’9o’s never
had a lynching ; but two fellows at Kurnalpi,
back of Hannan’s, only missed it by a few minutes.
Roughly, there were 2000 men on the rush, and a
fair percentage were on gold, which was mostly
got round the roots of trees. Generally we
knocked off at about 5 p.m., and then to the
gaffimr “school” we took ourselves, “heading
them” till dark. Well, at supper that night, 16
years ago, we heard a rattle of tin dishes, which
meant a roll-up; and we knew someone was in
trouble. I guessed what it might be, as I had
handled a few notes at the “school’ and
noticed they were not signed or initialled,
so, in case of accidents, had got rid of them
for gold before clearing home to camp for
supper. At the roll-up they had two chaps
with ropes round their necks under the biggest of
the “payable trees,” and all was ready for a
journey ; but several of us objected (you see, we
had got rid of our “ crookics’ ). Altogether, it
seemed, £l5O had been “put” into the school by
these gentlemen. The idea of lynching having
been out-voted, it was proposed that the couple
should be branded for identification ; but a few of
us managed to get the sentence reduced to 24
hours’ notice to quit; and as they were “dry-
blowing ” to the tune of loz. per day, they seemed
to think even then that they had been badly
treated. I reckoned myself they should have
written to “ Tatt.’s ” before their luck changed.
PREHISTORIC SURF RATH! NO.
“ Condamine ” : The scrub turkey builds
its nest and lays its eggs in much the same way
as the mallee hen. The nests are usually about
4ft. 6in. high at the centre, with a diameter of
about 10ft. at the bottom, and are composed of
sticks and leaves raked together during successive
seasons. It is wonderful the patience and labor
put into these nests. Just now the nests
in use have around them a cleanly-scraped
space of as much as 30 yards’ radius. Every
leaf and stick not too heavy is scraped with
great pains over last year’s decomposed nests. The
eggs are laid just under this year’s building, and
the fermentation hatches the young. The chickens
are born on their backs, and in due time com-
mence to kick, thus dislodging the dirt, which
gradually works its way underneath and raises
the chick the surface. Arrived there, the
immigrant shifts for himself.
ON THE LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a lanky country youth,
Know as “ That cove of Bess’s" ;
For lie her sweetheart was, in truth,
Anti paid her his addresses.
He dined at her place once a week
(That way the thing: commences);
And there for hours he’d sit and speak
About the crops and fences ! .
In vain Bess tried to lead his feet
In pathways more romantic ;
He’d talk about the blight in wheat,
And nearly drive her frantic ;
He never thought to squei ze her hand
Bike men of courting habits,
But spoke about the tax on land,
And how to poison rabbits.
Bess thought the matter out alone,
With this determination :
“ A Bush-bred girl should hold her own
At rural conversation."
Next time he came, she let him talk
Until her dad forsook him ;
Then “Come,” said she, “we’ll take a walk,”
And river-ward she took him.
“ Since you’re so fond of talking shop,
I’ll show you my selection ! ”
Upon the brink she made him stop
And view his own reflection ;
He grinned a grin that lined his face
With many, many creases,
“ By gum ! ” said he, “ if that’s the case,
Let’s talk of Homestead Leases! ”
N'.S.W.
E. F. CHRISTIE.


Hotel
A ustrati a
TARIFF:
From 13 - per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Make the Liver
Do its Duty
Nine times in ten when the liver is right
the stomach and bowels are right
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS
gently but firmly com-
pel a lazy liver to
do its duty.
Cure Con-
stipation,
Indiges-
tion,
Sick
sdfg g
Carters
Kittle•
IVER
PILLS.
Headache, and Distress after Eating.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
Weare Born to
offer Benefits
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
1 OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 George St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly against
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Stockfeld \ Joint
K. S. Doherty / Managers.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0, Robinson, Proprietor
“Foe”: The only bush fire I ever
attended was really more of a social gathering
than a disaster. I was spending a blistering
Christmas with a friend who lived in a pictu-
resque but remote village in the hills beyond the
Melbourne suburban radius. It was the dead
centre of the molten afternoon, and we were
yarning listlessly in the darkened sitting-room,
when a small boy blew in with the news that a
fire was raging two miles away. 44 Come on ! ”
said my host, with enthusiasm, “we’ll go and
help! ” I grabbed my hat and followed him
reluctantly into the blinding heat. We walked
rapidly up seven hills, and down 14 gullies,
climbed 23 fences, jumped 153 logs, and crossed a
dry stony creek bed at 15 different points.
Finally, after accumulating much dust and pers-
piration, we came upon a few chains of charred
fencing, an acre or so of burnt scrub, and
a group of about a dozen superheated farmers
sitting round on upturned kerosene-tins and
logs. A light haze of sweet-smelling wood-incense
hung over the scene, and an aged man was chant-
ing like a priest some figures re the cost of fencing.
The rest of the group listened reverently to him
until he had finished, and then one by one took
up the theme. As they talked a quiet bush boy
went the rounds with a black bottle, a pannikin
and half a kerosene-tin of water. We watched
the bottle anxiously, and when our turn came our
best suspicions were confirmed—it contained
whisky. By this time the conversation had got
round to cows, and the quiet boy, having
emptied the bottle, went off to a house hidden
somewhere in the scrub for a further supply.
While he was away, two more thirsty-looking
men had hurried up from nowhere in particular
and joined the brigade amongst the ashes. Before
he got back with the whisky reinforcements, a
third man with tumultuous whiskers and a gum
sapling was lingering round with a look of parched
expectancy. I recognised that the affair had de-
veloped into an informal reunion, and laid myself
out for drink and entertainment. We spent the
whole afternoon on the hilltop, drinking and yarn-
ing ; the congregation at one time numbered quite
24. The topics ranged from cows and No License
to Freetrade and artificial manures, and the
session dragged on until the daylight and the
whisky gave out. We dispersed with the compli-
ments of the season, and strolled home beneath
the cool, silver stars. When No License has the
land in its grip, I’m going to take a supply of
liquors out to the hills and start a bush fire. It’s
the best way I know of gathering people together.
* * * *
“ Ossian ” : I was fishing lately at De-
ception Bay—a mu 1-strewn patch at the mouth of
the Caboolture River, in Queensland —when I
struck some large oysters growing on a sandstone
boulder. At the time the tide was dead-low, and
the oyster colony had about a quarter cf a mile of
sand and mud between it and the shore line. In
getting the eatables I broke off pieces of the sand-
stone, and was surprised to find several live
fish buried in the boulder. They were about 2in.
long and very like rock-cod ; were nicely speckled
and well-conditioned. Their retreat in the sand-
stone — to which there was no inlet or outlet—was
just large enough to gently envelop them. I
placed a few of the curios in a pool close by, but
they immediately wormed themselves into the
nearest cranny in the rocks. In all other respects
these fish behaved themselves in accordance with
the best traditions of their family ; but it struck
me that an ichthus which could thrive through an
idle existence in the bowels of a rocky substance
as barren as a politician’s promise had just about
solved the housing and unemployed problems, to
say nothing of the food and drink worry. How
NEAR BRIG ALOW.
The Brigalow cream-cart —running a bit late.
does the fish get there ? And how does it stay
there after it has got there ?
* * * *
“ Snooker”: Is “Condainine”(B.B/12/TO)
trying to pull our legs, or is he a plain liar about
those 2000 rabbits which existed and thrived on a
rooky, sandy hilltop? Every bushman knows, or
ought to, that the vegetation that would flourish
on a hill of that formation, even in the best of
good seasons, would not feed a parson’s horse, let
alone 2000 gluttons. Therefore those rabbits
must have “thrived ” for seven months without
either food or water. Of course, if “ Condamine”
gives his word that they did thrive, I’m bound to
believe him ; but I know people who wouldn’t.
AS ONE GENTLEMAN TO ANOTHER.
DERELOT : “ Givers a tray, boss. I wanler yet some modercine f[?]r me cold.”
TOFF : "No. Go away, follow.”
D ERELICT: “ Oh, well, lend's yer and hcrchief fer a minit. I wanter blow me nose.”
As a safeguard against the introduction of
rabies, the Commonwealth Customs Department
has prohibited the importation of dogs from
any part of the world except the U.K. and
Maoriland. But hydrophobia is sufficiently com-
mon in England—quite as common as in France,
which is one of the • interdicted countr es—to
make the U.K. an interdicted country also.
Apparently the idea- is that a mad dog from the
dear old country is not so mad as a mad dog from
any other country.
* * * *
“L.H.”: Agree with “Lang” (B.
29/12/TO) that squirrel fur is very handsome,
but “Yalgun” is right about its uselessness.
The hair is uneven in length and distribution,
and only a small portion of the pelt' is
worth preserving. I believe, too, that
the skin, which is fine and parch-
ment-like, is too thin to stand
tanning. Hence its lack of com-
mercial value. It is a good job
it isn’t a commercial asset, or
the little chap that owns it
would be hunted out of exist-
ence. And anybody who has
delighted in watching the
little sugar-squirrel float-
ing from tree-top to tree-
top in effortless fashion,
with hardly any perceptible
fall, will agree with me. Those
who don’t agree with me are
soulless hogs. I could put it more
politely, but I don’t want to.
* * ■ * *
44 S.S.S.” : Every now and then lonely
Hammond, of the Torres Strait isles, holds a
canoe contest with baby boats—replicas of their
full-sized high mat-sailed prototypes. The eligible
bucks call each play-canoe after a brown beauty,
and when the contest begins they draw lots to
decide who shall be first to sit out in the village
canoe, which is the flagship, and is located half a
mile or so from shore. The girls then start the
canoes towards the flagship, and if the craft
named after Neg’ele, for instance, reaches the
flagship first, Neg’ele becomes the bride of the
brown lad on board. When the old queen,
Waidore, died, her husband, the Mamoose,
left it to the cnnoes and currents to elect
her successor. The Ninu (she was an ngly
old widow) was winning, when Mamoose exercised
his royal Derogative, and said he would take the
last, which was Rarde, a young girl of much brown
loveliness.
“ S. S. Severn ” : Kelt, king of the Koko-
mundi, a coast tribe in the Carpentaria country,
gave me. a tribal totem—a sun-shaped piece of
pearl-shell tethered to a string of human hair.
With much ceremony, he told me its name was
“Sun,” and that word I must never speak or
assuredly I would die. I frequently forget the
old monarch’s ad vice, and mention the Sun ; then
I tremble, thinking to drop dead; but I sel-
dom do.
BARGAIN DRIVING.
1ST COCKT : “ I’ll give yer a price for that heifer ! ” 1st Do. : “ How much do yer want ? "
2ND Do. : " How much'll yer give ! ” 2 ND Do. : "More’n you’ll give for her."
IST Do: " Then I won’t buy her!”
“Kwinnie”: Be par. (B. 24/11/’10) re-
porting the intention of a manager of a station on
the Moonie River (Q.) to sool 100 Chows on to the
prickly pear. There was a specimen of the pear
growing for some years in my back yard, and the
story of its demise may be of benefit to the
Moonie manager and others. The potatoes here
(M.L.) during the past two seasons have been bad
with Irish blight, consequently the affected part
is cut off and shot into the rubbish bin. When
our bin was shifted one of the affected pieces of
spud dropped and rolled unnoticed against the
prickly pear. The results were fatal to the csc-
tus; it wilted and rotted right away, although
the potato could not have been breathing on it
more than 10 days. I may add, as a warning,
that the potato affected with Irish blight held the
record in the Dreadful Smell competition until
the prickly pear was affected, when the potato
handed in the belt. Still, I doubt if the two of
them combined would be as bad as 100 Chows.
“ Tullach Ard ” : We had camped on the
Victorian north-east road between Seymour and
Benaila, near a one-time pub, when we were
joined by a veteran Matilda-carrier. After tea he
said, pointing to the old place: “Afore you was
born that crib was one of the busiest between
Melbourne and Beechworth. Cobb’s changed
there, while the passengers got their tucker at
three bob a time. And it was always brought in
red hot, and before it cooled off the coach was
ready and the driver was yelling: 4 All aboard.’
I remember once when making back to Bendigo
we pulled up there, and eight or nine of us sat
down for a feed. As usual, time was up
before we had a decent bite, and on the
call we all scrambled into our places on the
coach, except one cove who went on quietly
eating. 4 Come on,’ sung out the driver ; but the
cove said it was all right; so away we went.
After we had gone about three miles a man on
horseback came yelling like Old Nick after us.
‘What’s wrong? What’s up now?’ asked the
driver. ‘You’ve got to come back to the
pub—all the spoons has been shook.’ Then
there was a row. When we got back
to the door the chap we had left sitting
at his dinner came out and climbed on
board. Just as lie got on the steps he
said : "It’s all right, boss ; you’ll find them
spoons in the teapot on the cheffonier,’ and then
he took his place. It seemed that when we had
gone he grabbed an opportunity to hide the
spoons. Then he raised a hullabulloo for a spoon,
and the discovery was made that all of ’em had
gone. Said the cove : 4 1 did see one of them
fellers on the coach sneaking round the table,’and
at that the slushy was sent Sheol-for-leather after
the vehicle. The coach-driver didn’t swear—he
wept for want of words—but the pub-keeper
swore terrible. It was the first time anybody had
ever got a square meal out of him.”
* * # •
“Cross Nibs’s ” letter from Hell:—
I departed this life on the morning of January 1, and
(regretfully I admit it) was wafted to the portal of
Sulphurville, where a commiserating glance from the
janitor afforded me cold comfort as I entered. Passing
down Immortality-street, I paused beneath a large phos-
phorescent sign bearing the inscription in letters of
forked lightning: 44 Welcome 1 Free Beer Within 1 All the
comforts of a First-class Brewery ! ” Following the crowd,
I soon found myself on the ledge of a mammoth rock,
from which several grinning demons, wearing sweaters
inscribed with the monogram of the Slieol Pastime Club,
were tossing scions of the noble race of Snuffle into a
turbid lake. "From edge to edge was dotted an infinity of
heads rising above a sea of sour beer upon which
floated a thick scum of tobacco leaf. Presently a terrific
thunder-clap reverberai ed, and the semi-submerged
gazed with wide-eyed affright towards a dark
cavern that opened into the great rock. As the
rumbling died away there appeared in a blinding
flash of fire the Reaper of the Damned, followed by a
retinue of imps bearing an immeasurable scythe. Snatch-
ing it from his myrmidons, the boss whisked a whetstone
fiercely along its edge what time his sardonic laughter
pulsed high above thegeneral lamentation. Advancing to
the edge of the lake, he swung the blade back ; then, in
clarion tones, across the head-studded sea rang the com-
mand : “Duck your heads, you Wowsers, duck 1” With
a sibilant scream the great blade swept upon its journey;
but back to the far horizon I could see naught but a
seething surface. Crash 1 I awoke to find the cat had
knocked my remaining bottle of ale from the dressing-
table in her efforts to secure the lobster I had brought home
the previous evening ; and the crustacean had only saved
his life by climbing on to the bracket and pushing his
front harpoon into the cat’s eye.
“C.S.A.”: “Pick” (B. 10/11/’lO) says
rabbits quickly succumb to thirst. “Pick” may
be an authority on the keeping qualities of
“rabbo” on a hand-cart in a disembowelled and
negotiable condition, but he knows nothing of the
beast in its native environment. Rabbits will live
indefinitely without water, provided there is a
fair percentage of moisture in their edibles. Any
bushman knows that they will thrive on saltbush
while that vegetable remains green. Same with
sheep, which are badly addicted to liquid refresh-
ment —they have been known to subsist through a
summer without water, and come out in fair con-
dition. Should other Abos proclaim me a plain,
variegated or other brand of liar, I hereby threaten
to produce affidavits from several boundary-riders
and one serang that my facts are right. As
further proof of bona-fides, I assert that I wasn’t
one of the rescue party at the Kembla smash, nor
have I ever kicked a football goal in my life.


THE CARDINAL AND THE LABOR PARTY.
According to the S. M. Herald (17/1/11), “Mr. McGowen and his colleagues have allowed a new issue to be raised [in connection with the Education
question] ; and as they meet Cardinal Moran, or refuse to meet him, so will they be judged and dealt with.”
THE CARDINAL: “Submission or Death?”
THE L.P. : “ But you’ve forgotten one alternative.”
THE CARDINAL: “ What’s that?”
THE L.P. : “That I’ll merely wish you good day, and go on with mv work.”


GAELI C
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
r nr
M
j Cooling? Refreshing! Thirst Quenching!
PERSONAL
ITEMS
M Clelland, the new Victorian Railway
Comm’ssioncr, is a native of Eehuca, horn in
180 J. He joins the triumvirate after the com-
paratively short service of 22 years.
Inclement Wragge, who has had no
official weather-making job since he left Queens-
iand has bought some land at Northcote, on the
northern su e of Auckland (M.L.) Harbor, and
intends settling there.
“ Nick ” Lockyer succeeds Dr. Wollaston
as Controller-General of the Australian Customs.
1 hanks to the little doctor, the Department has
survived a trying birth, and Lockyer finds a goino-
concern ; and his ability to carr'v it on was well
enough proved when he was collector at Sydney.
He is a son-in-law of his former boss.
EX-JUDGE AND THRICE-PRN[?]llER
JAMES PENN BOUCAUT (S.A.).
The Clarence River (N.S.W.) lost one of
its ancients recently, when the patriarch of the
Small family died, aged 78. This Small’s father
was John, of Hyde, Parramatta River; he
went to the northern river 70 years ago, and the
son had lived on the land ever since. The original
Small came with Phillip in the First Fleet, and
was sergeant of the first Governor’s bodyguard.
First Governor-General Hopetoun was
born again to the advanced dignity of Marquis of
Linlithgow when he quitted the Commonwealth
before his term expired. Now, though it is per-
sistently denied that Lord Dudley will announce
his early retirement, it is very probable indeed
that he will be shoved up the ladder of titledom.
f lb 1 " 6 at fa w ly Precedent for it. His grand-
father, Mr. Ward, was fervently Whiggish in his
sapling days. As he grew older, and came to the
title, he became a Tory. It was then that Byron
was asked what it would take to re-whig’ Dudley?
■ur replied : “He must first be re-
Ward-ed. ’
Ifc is proposed in Maoriland to appoint the
haloed Peter Bowlin" as organiser for Labor
through the volcanic land. The leaders of the
two main sections of Laborites are none too
friendly, and the idea evidently is that Peter
would be an angel of sweet peace.
“ B. Jove ” : I think I have found the job
to suit Premier John Weary, of Victoria. The
1400 citizens of the Principality of Monaco (3 x
miles or inches, I forget which, and all built
oyer) have been granted a Constitution which pro-
vides for a national council. If Weary could
master the language (which, if I remember rightly,
is Roulette or Two-up), he ought to get himself
appointed Minister for Agriculture, and have a
clinking time.
Don Miguel of Braganza, the official Pre-
tender to the broken-legged throne of Portugal,
remarked the other day from a safe distance that
“ if Portugal desired a return to monarchism, and
jf the country called him. he would accept the
crown, but he would not force himself forward.”
Three days after that, monarchical flags were
hoisted in Lisbon and a republican crowd
promptly showed its opinion of the rags by
wrecking three newspaper offices. Miguel has
not since been heard from. When in doubt as to
your welcome, it is wise to (1) throw in your hat;
(2) send in your card ; or (3) get a friend to hoist
your flag. Don Miguel is evidently one of the
wise.
Percy Hunter, Director of the N.S.W.
Tourist Bureau, goes on still another jaunt—to
Honolulu, this time—where he will attend a Pan-
Pacific Congress with the idea of promoting
travel to the Pacific Ocean and attracting Ameri-
can farmers to Australia. The Congress is organ-
ised by America, and if Percival expects the
gathering to assist in a scheme of Australian
immigration at the expense of America, then
Percival is as cheerful an optimist as ever. Mean-
time there is talk of altering the name of the
concern of which the optimist is director. The
idea is to call it the Tourist’s Bureau.
Mrs. Rutter, who died the other day at
Parramatta (N.S. W.), was the widow of a doctor
who practised in the ancient borough over half a
century ago. Before that she was a Miss Taylor,
and the Taylors go back to the earliest days of the
place with the perpetual doze. The father, 010
Hughie, was in business there; and young Hughie
represented the borough in Parliament for years.
This latter Hughie was henchman and general
supporter of Henry Parkes, and was “ best man ”
to the hairy politician on his third marriage. The
original Hughie represented the Sydney Herald,
which in the ’3o’s ran this advt.: “Notice. —Mr.
Hugh Taylor, agent for the Sydney Herald, is
authorised to sue in the several Courts all parties
who do not immediately pay their respective
accounts after having been called on for the
same.” Ward Stephens, of Gloucester-street,
Sydney, was then the proprietor of the Herald,
which was published m Lower George-street.
The place is now occupied by an ironmongery.
Concerning a lady who has been hired to
shako up Victoria :—■
Miss Eleanor Cameron, daughter of Angus, deceased,
succeeds Miss Grace Watson as organising sec. of the
Women s National League of Victoria, which hopes to
put the Fisher Government out at next general elec-
tion. Miss Cameron is more interesting than the com-
pan.v she 11 keep. Both her father and mother were keen
politically, so politics are hereditary with her. Amois
Cameron was returned a Radical to the N.S.W. Assembly
for West Sydney, in December, 1874, and sat for that seat
continuously for 11 years. Out of Parliament for two
years, he was, in 1887, elected for Kiama. Five more
years out of the House, and he reappeared for Waverley
which he represented till his death, in 1896. Cumula-
tively, he had a long innings as Oha.rman of Committees
and was one of the best. He succeeded Richard Driver
m 1878, and called “ Order” till 1885. Then there was a
1889’ bUt be fol '°" ec * Tom Slatte,, y again from ISB7 to
A party of British scientists comes to Aus-
tralia in 1913, so the Australian Association for
the Advancement of Science had the ticklish job
of picking the Commonwealth’s top-notcher in
order to make him president for that year. It was
the Melbourne men who practically made the
choice: they unanimously decided on Professor
David—the delightful old geologist and geographer
to whom Sydney students fall down in worship.
His last important work was with Shackleton.
When he suggested that he wouldn’t mind
going part of the way with the South Pole expe-
dition, the enterprising young man who was
running the show jumped at the chance; and
when, having started, the old scientist—he had
turned 50—decided to go on, nobody felt big
enough to tell him not to. So he not only went,
but nominally, at any rate, led the little party
that reached the magnetic pole—though whether
he would ever have got back if it hadn’t been for
Douglas Mawson is another matter. Just at pre-
sent he is in England helpingto put on permanent
record the scientific results of the expedition, of
which he has already given a charming, popular
account in Shackleton’s book.
Concerning Tait’s successor :
If Fitzpatrick, of Vic., raked over the exciting mo-
ments in bis railway life he would probably mark some-
thing that happened at Elphinstone as No. 1. He was
S.M. at that hamlet in the early ’Bo’s, and had a porter
whose hobb}' was a neat train-book. Every entry in it
had to be copper-plated. There was an exhibition shivoo
at, Bendigo, and specials were running from Melbourne.
Elphinstone is at the top of a climb from Castlemaine •
then there is a fall. One packed excursion train had’
climbed up this gradient, and passed ; and the porter
kept on at his copper-plate. Fitzpatrick wasn’t well, and
was taking a few minutes off duty when, hard on
the tail of the packed excursion, he heard another special
thundering the track. He knew the driver couldn’t
see the train ahead on account of a curve, and he knew
there would be a smash in a few seconds unless No. 2
pulled up. He pushed his head out—and saw the signal
‘‘ Line clear ! ” The porter had forgotten everything in
his copper-plate. Just how many things Fitz did inside
the next 20sec. he probably forgets ; but he stopped the
train, and when he got up to the engine, a few hundred
yards along the track past the station, the driver(who had
done splendid work) was in a state of collapse from the re-
action, and could only jerk out: “By , Mr. Fitz, I
just bumped her.” They held up that special to give the
crawler a good quarter-hour’s start, and then Mr. Fitz
went in to have a few earnest words with the copperplate
porter.
Henderson, of Adelaide, was the orator
among the professors at the Science Congress in
Sydney. He started working life as a pupil-
teacher in N.S.W., and climbed up on scholar-
ships. History is his speciality; he was an
Oxford University Extension lecturer on that
subject for some years.
THE NEEDED REFORM.
MR. PHATMAN : “Now, Mr. Jones, I don't see
how, with pour salary, you can afford to
smoke such expensive cigars !”
UNDERPAID CLERK: “ You're right, sir; I can't.
I ought to have a bigger salary."
A. F. Goclley, Maoriland’s newly imported
military commandant, is a nephew of the Godley
who was associated with the founding of Canter-
bury province. He has started on his job by
holding an instructional camp for officers.
For some time one Dr. Soper, represent-
ing a drink-cure institute in the land of stars and
cocktails, has been wrestling with Adelaide’s
worst cases of chronic thirst. One bright feature
about Soper is that he doesn’t pretend to be a
philanthropist, but charges as much hard coin as
he can get for his goods. Chiefly through the
influence of Labor Chief Secretary Wallis
who habitually sports the blue ribbon, the Verran
Government is lending a hand, and every drink-
sodden individual that can be captured or per-
suaded is sent along to a hospital to be Soperised.
The treatment has the advantage of being speedy
—three or four days at the outside—so that a sub-
ject has not to fabricate a foreign tour to account
for his absence from his customary haunts. After
being afforded the opportunity of compress-
ing a week’s jag into one day, a drug
is administered and the patient is busily
employed during the succeeding two or three days
in turning himself inside-out. At the end of the
period he has nothing left in him but a firm
resolve to become a follower of Jud. Wallis is
convinced that the secret of perpetual dryness has
been discovered. But the average sinful citizen
is still laying a shade of odds on Time.
Of the 78 members of Victoria’s third
Parliament, 1861-4, only one member is known to
remain—John Dennistoun Wood, the author of
the shocking example of bad verse quoted in a
recent Aboriginally par. Wood, a lawyer, and
one-tune Attorney-General, lives nowadays in his
native Tasmania.
The story of the loss, in the ’Frisco ’quake
and fire, of Dan O’Connor’s priceless and pictu-
resque “Life” of himself, and,
incidentally, of a thousand and
more other Australian and visit-
ing celebrities, has been vari-
ously told. This, on the word
of an impeccable personage,
is the true version of the cal-
amitous happening. Daniel
presented himself, with the
browri-paper-bound-all- round
and silk-ribbon-tied MS., at
the office of his distinguished
friend. John D. Spreckels,
millionaire ship-owner, San
Francisco. The potentate
was somewhere, a thousand
miles or more off, in the
States. His son, however,
was in the office, and Daniel
grasped him by the hand and
congratulated him on being
the son of fame, fortune and
finance. Casually, but none
the less eloquently, he intro-
duced his MS., and assured
Spreckels the younger that
he had only to read the
parcel diligently to become
the first American authority
on Australasia. At length—
at eloquent length, of course
—Dan quitted the office and
enhanced the architecture of
’Frisco with his magnificent
personality. Spreckels the
younger deposited the MS. in
the safe. Then, naturally, the
earthquake happened, and the
fire. Dan inevitably escaped
destruction, but the fierce heat
melted the safe, and the MS.
dissolved into undistinguishabla
debris. Dan subsequently re-
marked—but there’s not space
available in this year’s issues for
what Dan remarked.
Joseph Cook, M.H.R., last week
discoursed in Wesley Church on the
subject: “Is the World Growing
Better?” Possibly it is, and possibly
it only looks better by comparison with
Cook. Cook, by the way, is an optimist
—a miserable optimist.
J. Drysdale Brown, the Vic. Attorney-
General, has smashed all records in the manu-
facture of Jay Pays. He has been making them
at the rate of 250 a year, and his power to add to
their number will not be exhausted, seemingly,
tmtil the Murray Government meets its doom!
There are now 2600 honorariums in the State ;
and their births are so greatly in excess of the de-
mises that the strain on the Bench accommodation
points to the necessity for appointing only thin
men this year.
BEEBY, MINISTER FOR EDUCATION
AND LABOR (N.S.W.).
Henry Priestley, a Sydney ’Varsity gradu-
ate who has just departed for the Big Smoke, is the
first Australian to be awarded a Beit Memorial
Research fellowship, one of the valuable founda-
tions instituted by the S’African diamond man.
Priestley wants to track the organism of diphtheria
to its lair. At present, medical science has only
maimed the little beast with anti-toxin. Priestley,
the son of a Sydney accountant, wants to kill it.
THE COOK AND THE BROTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am convinced the world is growing better. The more
I investigate this subject the more I emerge from its
study a thorough believer that the world is swinging in
the right direction, and that eventually it will become
quite right.—,/ os'eph Cook, at a Wesley Church
‘ Pleasant Sunday Afternoon."
For many years the people here
Have scoffed at Joey’s sentiments,
And he and other Freetrade gents
Have all sufficient cause to fear
A future desolate and drear ;
And yet he chortles with delight:
“The world is good, the world is right! ”
He slyly fought the people’s will,
And strove by Parliamentary schemes
To foist his blighted Tory dreams
On this fair continent, and still
To that bad end devotes his skill.
Though beaten sorely in the fight,
He ups and sez : “ The world is right! "
It moves on its appointed tack,
Though Joe is hanging on its tail,
And hopes his pressure may avail
From Socialism’s flowery track,
And Labor laws to hold it back.
But Cook and all the fiends despite,
The world runs on, the world is right!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
THE AMEER OF BOKHARA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The death of Sayid Abdul Ahad, the Ameer of Bok-
hara, is announced in a cable message from our London
correspondent.— Daily paper.
Have you heard the bad news?
Very sad !
The kindly Ameer, Sayid Abdul Ahad,
Fourth son of the gay Mir Muzaffir-ed-din,
Who revelled in hyphens and lived in sin,
Has gone to his rest I
He is no more !
Among the Blest
On the Golden Shore,
In pearl-studded sandals shodden with Para,
He waddles—the heathen Boss of Bokhara. '
Did you know him at all—
The Ameer ?
No ? Never knew he existed ? Dear, dear !
In his way he was just as good as a Guelph....
But I never heard of Sayid myself
Till the day I read
In cabled prose
That he was dead.
Which only shows
That a sheepskin coat and a brass tiara
Don’t cut much ice if they’re out in Bokhara.
“•
FOE.


THREE CASTLES
CIGARETTES
(Heavy Weights)
sweeter
Jhere’s no . .
ZToOa.cco comes from Virgin!la
and vo better brand. tha,n
VIRGi NfANSfo
rn£.
"THAC t<E
am
V
£fe
n/
2\
j?
IV,
H») n
h ms- 1
-w*
sCPMf
n
■ /
,u
74
7*
V
V
x>
o
V
In Packets and Flat Tins of lO
and Air-Tight Tins of 50.
The famous brand of W. D. H. O. Wills.


“ WILBERFORCE ” Sluicing 1 Pumps For Sale.
1 10fn. Gravel Pump. 1 10in. Swivel Gland and Bend. 1 Ejector and Cock complete
1 12in. Water Pump. 1 11in. Delivery Flap Valve and Bend. 1 11in. Giant Nozzle.
N.B.—These Pumps were selected by Experts and they are perfectly new, and can be inspected in our
Sydney Stores. Will sell 20 per cent, below cost, owing to a Sluicing' Company, for whom they were
intended, going into liquidation. If required, we can offer 2 “Robey” Portable Steam Engines to
work the above Pumps, viz., 25 Nominal H.P. and 30 Nominal H.P.
Appiy-ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER 8 CO., Circular Quay, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
bet “no connection with any combine.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Bank of North Queensland :
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
June, 1903.. £2153 2£ p.c. =£1313 £B4O £16,022
Dec., 1903.. 2408 21 „ „ 1313 1095 17,117
June, 1904.. 2251 21 „ 1313 938 18,055
Dec., 1904.. 2421 2J „ „ 1313 1108 19,163
June, 1905.. 2262 2| ~ „ 1325 937 20,100
Dec., 1905.. 2310 21 „ „ 1326 984 21,084
June, 19C6.. 2461 2£ ~ ~ 1330 113 1 22,215
Dec., 1906.. 2644 2J „ „ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 „ „ 2113 905 24,429
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 „ ~ 2122 £4OOO 21,678
June, 1908.. 3677 4 „ ~ 2129 1548 23,226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 ~ ~ 2652 4500 20,144
June, 1909.. 4314 5 „ „ 2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909.. 4641 5 „ ~ 2666 1975 23,775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 „ ~ 2668 5000 20,824
Dec., 1910.. 4838 5 ~ ~ 2671 2167 22,991
That is a good climb. Probably, however, the real
profits made seven years ago were greater than the
accounts showed. This bank had passed through the
bad time that fell upon all Queensland banks; and,
though three-fifths of the capital had been written off, it
is certain that the deficiency wasn’t even then wiped out.
But as the bank couldn’t very well reduce its paid capital
below £lOO,OOO, and as it wasn’t a good time to get in
any more, the management decided to go ahead and trust
to the future to give a hand. The future was very good ;
and as no div. at all was paid for some years, and when a
start was made it was on a very modest scale, something
substantial was left over towards the cost of removing the
old dead horse. There is no way of telling for certain
whether the job has been completed ; though, judgingby
the fact that a profit of over 8 per cent, is now shown on capi-
tal and reserves combined, it looks as though not only the
capital is intact, but the reserves are real as well. The
business shows a big expansion :
Liabilities.
1900. 1909. 1910.
Deposits .. ..£242,140 £640,703 £773,003
Bills, etc .. .. 94,105 72,026 41,005
Assets.
Liquid assets ... 142,394 272,910 345,826
Advances .. .. 285,561 526,180 548,758
Premises ... .. 20,351 40,081 45,086
The bank clearly has no difficulty nowadays in getting
all the money it wants. The trouble is more likely
to be to. get satisfactory securities; at any rate
nearly 43 per cent, of all the deposits and other
liabilities remain with the bank in the shape of
coin and other liquid assets; and that is more than
safety demands. If the deposits, etc., grow much larger,
there will be need to get in more capital. At present, for
every £1 of capital and reserves, the bank is favored with
about £6 13s. of the public’s money ; and it isn’t advis-
able to stretch the proportion much further than that.
The bank is authorised under its articles to issue
up to another 50,000 shares, of £7 each. The
present issue consists of 50,000 shares paid to
£2, with a liability therefore of £5. The idea
pay be to wait until the management believes it is
in a position to pay 6 per cent.; that would probably lift
the shares a few shillings above par, and give the bank the
chance to add a small premium to the reserves. As pre-
viously mentioned, the present capital and reserves show
profits in excess of 8 per cent. Recent figures have been :
June, 1906 .. £4 1 4 p.c. Dec., 1908 ..£6 12 1 p.c.
Dec., 1906 .. 4 6 7 „ June, 1909 ..7 3 7
June, 1907.. 417 9 „ Dec., 1909 .. 712 5 ”
Dec., 1907 ..5 8 4 ~ June, 1910 .. 712 5 ”
June, 1908.. 6 0 10 ~ | Dec., 1910 ..8 0 2 ”
Undoubtedly the tendency of Queensland’s borrowing
policy is to inflate property values ; and that is the time
when a bank is liable to get into the soup—though for
the time being it mistakes soup for clover. There is no
sign that this bank is rushing things ; on the contrary
the big proportion of liquid assets hints loudly that the
management has learned its lesson and is going slow.
* * * *
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
A«encv Co., Ltd.:—
Full Paid on
Interest account
on Ist and Interest Divi-
Sross 2nd Deben- on 3rd De- dend Re-
June, Profits. turesPaid. bentures. (5 p.c.). serves.
1901.. £100,859 £100,594 £265 £51986
1902.. 101,195 100,659 536 51’986
£101,060 100,658 - 3921
1903.. -f Suspense account (£51,213) V 103,199
| added to reserves J
1904 -( 122 - 775 100,657 16,901 1
" \ Written off, £4459 / 103,957
IiOOO 1 121 •952 100,653 16,901 \
100 ' \ Written off, £3548 / ~ 104,802
1906.. 177,104 100,965 17,160 £6,423 157 358
f 180,416. 93,953 17,259)
1907. Suspense account (£100,000) V 6,429 315,133
\ added to reserves j
none. J 157,703 98,953 17.2591 „
“ Surpluses on sales, £50,000 / 0,429 400,195
1909.. 177,747 98,953 17,259 6,370 455,360
(7 p.c.) (7J p.c.)
1910.. 180,885 98,953 26,84 S 10,147 500,297
Third debenture-holders, like third mortgagees, often
have a bitter pill to swallow ; but a spoonful of jam some-
times comes their way. Those with whom this co. has to
deal are just smacking their lips over this rarity.
It is a tale of disaster, though, as tales with
third debentures or mortgages in them usually
are. The original co. was formed in 1865 and prospered
for many years. Then excessive borrowing on one hand
and the locking up of so many estates on the other bloated
the price of land ; and as this co. financed purchases on
the basis of the bloated values, there was grave trouble
when the tide turned. In 1894 the co. had to go into the
furnace and be recast. ft happened nearly always
in those days that the full extent of the disaster
wasn’t at once realised ; or, put in another way, they
couldn’t make up their minds all at once that they
had been such fools as they really were. Three years
later they decided to make a clean breast of it, and then
cut off all the dead wood : no less than £1,042,142 was
written off the share capital and £1,448,325 off the deben-
ture capital. That was admittedly very rough on the
debenture-holders ; and to temper the wind to the shorn
lambs, the purse was tied up so tight that it was
thereafter almost impossible for the shareholders to
get a dividend, no matter how full the purse
might become. An Act of the British Parlia-
ment was passed in 1903 to alter that. Part
of the arrangement was that, if the shareholders ever got
more than 5 per cent., the third debenture-holders (who
are entitled to 4J per cent, as a regular thing, and pro-
vided there is the profit to pay it) should also get as
much per cent, in excess of 4J per cent, as the share-
holders got in excess of 5 per cent. Hitherto the share-
holders have never had more than 5 per cent.; but for the
past year, as they get an extra 2£ per cent, (or 7£ per
cent, altogether), the third debenture-holders also get an
extra 2£ per cent, (or 7 per cent, in all).
The holders of th'rd debentures, who, in 1904,
saw their £lOO pap r worth only about £52, must smile
the broad smile of satisfaction when they look at the
rapidly-increasing- reserves. For those reserves are the
things that will anchor them to good fishing grounds,
and enable them to make a regular haul of interest.
Their interest, as remarked just now, is only payable out
of profits ; and £500,000 of reserves, even if it only brings
in 4 per cent., means £20,000 more profit a year. So a
season that would only yield enough to just pay the first
and second debenture-holders a few years ago would now,
with the help of the reserve fund, give enough to pay a
full 4J per cent, on the third debentures. The co. has
put a good deal of its accumulated profits into its own
debentures. This shows the whole position in that
regard:—•
Total Held by
Amount. 00.
Share capital .. .. £135,302
First debentures .. .. 2,350,000 £387,554
Second debentures .. 540,766 29,380
Third debentures.. .. 405,575 22,035
In addition to the holding of its own debentures, the co.
has nearly three-quarters of a million of liquid assets
(cash and public securities).
The position is further set out below, along
with the figures for 1904—the first balance after things
were arranged on th.eir present basis :
Liabilities.
1904. 1910.
Debentures .. .. £3,309,531 £3,296,341
Other Debts .. .. 565,888 896,897
Assets.
Liquid Assets .. .. 378,46 S 831,817
M.L. Land Association .. 552,659 552,659
Co.’s Debentures .'. .. 471,461 438,969
Advances 1,981,438 2,378,138
Properties and Stock .. 210,131 156,308
Premises 290,722 345,281
Other Assets .. .. 229,619 145,400
Note the much larger increase in liquid assets than there
has been in liabilities. Properties and stock have been
reduced, either by sales or writing down. Premises
stand for more; but large amounts of profit have
been written off this item. Last year, for instance,
£20,000 not shown as profit in the table came off this
item. Advances have only increased moderately. In
short, the profits have grown without an apparent
growth in the risks. Certainly you can’t fully tell the
extent of the risk by merely looking at the figures ; but,
so far as you can tell, the risks, represented by advances,
have increased very little ; and the position altogether is
much more solid than it was six years ago.
There is an item among the assets—M.L. Land
Association. This is a concern owned wholly by the
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. Its assets used to
be chiefly land. Now they are chiefly cash. The whole
concern is shown in the N.Z. L. and M.A. Co.’s accounts
as worth £552,659. But the Land Association’s own
balance-sheet shows that it has £453,712 of cash, and
£209,455 of other assets net. Thus, besides the
£552,659 shown in the big eo.’s accounts, there
is a reserve of £110,50S; and the whole of that
belongs to the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. too ;
wherefore its actual reserves, instead of being the
£500,297 shown in the table, are £610,805. The cash is
on deposit with the big co. ; so of the “other debts”
(£896,897) shown in the comparison above, £452,895 is
really money lent by this co. to itself, which further im-
proves the very cheerful situation.
* * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria since
its last reconstruction :
Profit on
Profit on Property Total Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. serves.
Dec., 1907 .. £661 £661 £30,562
June, 1908 .. 1118 £1899 3017 33,579
Dec., 1908 1386 1050 2436 36,015
Loss.
June, 1909 .. 1897 698 1199 37,214
Profit.
Dec., 1909 .. 1700 1044 2744 39,958
June, 1910 .. 1934 1328 3262 43,220
Loss.
Dec., 1910 .. 3523 574 2949 46,169
When this writer was in Java once he called on a native
potentate, one Raden Mas, who was a sort of Lord High
Architect to the Sultan of Solo. It was an interesting if
weird palace that Raden Mas occupied—a sort of maze
and katzenjammer castle combined. When the Lord High
Architect, a most courtly’ Javanese, had taken us over the
show, he ied us up to a sort of attic, and into a wretched
room, furnished, they told us, just like the home of the
peasant who is passing rich on about threepence a day—
-15/cents Javanese money. Then he handed on the infor-
mation that, every day, so that he should be duly thank-
ful and not get swelled head, he went up to this room
and passed a few remarks full of gratitude to Allah. It
wasn’t a bad idea, and a lot of English-speaking people
would be all the better if they kept a peasant’s
home, so to speak, on the premises. For in-
stance, what a splendid one the history of this
concern, neatly printed, would make for the manager’s
office of every concern which deals in land and advances
on land ! In 1893 it had a paid capital of £250,000, and
it owed £994,764 to debenture-holders. But all that and
some more had been put into land whose value had been
inflated by the wild public and private borrowing of
the Victorian boom era; and when that borrowing
stopped; when the lender not only refused to lend
any more, but wanted repayment of a good deal
of what he had lent ; and when, to meet the pay-
ments, forced sales began, the whole wretched house
of cards collapsed. The shareholders who had put up
£250,000 were liable for another £1,000,000. The liability
was an awful nightmare. But it had to be faced. Call
after call was made. Tne last was payable in 1907; but
so badly had the shareholders already been bled
that it was arranged to extend payments over five
years. The period will expire on December 31 of the
current year; and £5804 remains to be paid. This is
about one-sixth of the total of that call; so, on the
whole, it has been got in remarkably well. Of the
original 250,000 shares there are now 145,770 alive; the
rest have been forfeited. This lot, when the present call
is all paid, will still be liable for £1 10s. each. So it
stands this way Paid originally, £1; two calls of £1
each, the last payable by instalments up to 1899, £2 ;
third call (the one just referred to), 10s. ; still callable’
£1 10s.; total, £5. As previously hinted, this doesn’t
mean that £3 10s. on the whole 250,000 shares has been
got in. The weakest holders have fallen out by the
wayside at various stages on the weary journey.
And what are the prospects? Well, look at
these figures for a start: —
Liabilities.
1907. 1910.
Capital .. .. £113,567 £139,966
Debentures.. .. 318,703 Nil
Other debts.. .. 1,663 2,648
Assets.
Advances .. .. 298,629 129,901
Properties .. .. 124,579 44,583
Cash, etc 38,798 14,299
The last of the debentures went in the early part of last
year ; so the co. is now entirely out of debt except for
the £2648 owing on open account, and not bearing in-
terest. During the last few years the properties have
usually brought something more than written-down
book-values ; but, on the showing of the past half-year,
that can’t be always relied upon. Still, the reserves are
equal to 25 per cent, of the assets ; so that, if the assets are-
only worth 15s. in the £, the capital is intact. There is no-
reason to suspect that they are not pretty well worth 205..
in the £. The advances ought to be good ; and the cash in.
hand is good. Properties are the doubtful item; and
they are not now large—they total less than the reserves.
The gross return from the lot, on the average, has been/
lately a shade under 6 per cent, per annum.’ Fees, sala-
ries and office expenses absorb nearly one-third of the-
total income. The shareholders will therefore have to-
decide before long what they are going to do—whether
they are going back into the*mortgage and finance busi-
ness or will make a deal with some other institution and.
pass out.
Australian Kodak, Ltd., which began as from
June, 1908, with a small deficit representing preliminary
expenses
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
June, 1908.. £478
Reserves.
Mar., 1909.. £22,038 9 p.c. = £11,250 £596 9,714
Sept., 1909.. 12,984 10 „ „ 7,500 358 14,840
Sept., 1910.. 25,273 10 „ ~ 15,000 3869 21,244
An interim Is. div. was paid ; another Is. per £1 share is
now payable, making 10 per cent, for the year. The
capital is £150,000. The public took 75,100 shares and
paid cash for them ; the other 74,900 were represented
by actual tangible assets passed over by the vendors—
Raker and Rouse—to the co. The amount subscribed by
the public was left in the business; consequently the public
paid not a penny for goodwill of any sort; and the public
which got in on those terms is entitled to go out and buy
itself a new hat on the strength of having taken a chance
which one does not often get. There certainly was one
point which might have made a man think before he
rushed to the expense of the previously-mentioned
hat. The first balance-sheet said: “Shares in
other companies at cost, £90,105.” That w'as
among the assets, and was very nearly one-half
of the total. Now it was quite possible that, while
Baker and Rouse charged the public nothing
for goodwill, somebody else had charged B. and R. a very
large sum for that intangible substance, or gas, or ghost,
or whatever it is ; hence, after all, the public might have
been paying a great deal for the substance, gas, or
ghost which it wasn’t supposed to be paying anything at
all for. However, six months later it was announced
that “ between March and September some sales of in-
vestments were made at prices showing a handsome pro-
fit.” Also—“ Since the accounts were closed further sales
were effected at equal satisfactory prices.” That showed
that at any rate somebody else was prepared to pay more
than this eo. had done. “Shares in other cos. at cost,”
after the sales mentioned, stood at £70,052, as at Sept. 30
—viz., Baker and Rouse Pty., Ltd, £50,000; Eastman
Kodak Go., £20,052. As to the former of these, the very
satisfactory statement was made by the directors, 12
months ago, that “ the value set upon the co.’s holding
in Baker and Rouse Prop., Ltd., is also arrived at upon the
basis of that co.’s actual tangible assets only being
valued.” That only leaves the smaller holding (Eastman
Kodak, Ltd.) in which there is any goodwill ; and it is
part of this stock which has been realised at a profit.
The profit on the sale of investments last year
was £3919; and the investments (book value) were re-
duced by £7019. A clinking premium was evi-
dently got; yet, notwithstanding • that, the income
from investments was only about 7J’ per cent, on
their book-value, which was rather disappointing.
The profit from the co.’s own manufacturing
and trading has, however, been excellent. Yet
in running the eye down the short column of profits in
the table which serves as a coping stone to these few
bricks, it ought to be remembered that the profits from
the sale of investments are included. And you can’t sell
your investment at a big profit and thereafter have your
big interest earnings too. Hence to sell your very profit-
able investments at a premium, and to pass that premium
to profit and loss, is much the same as discounting your
future profits. The co. has gone in largely for manufac-
ture. Freehold land and buildings represent £58,614 ;
plant and tools, etc., £29,155 ; and stocks, £46,174. This
building campaign drove the co. to the bank ; and its lia-
bilities on September 30 were £38,833, as against £28,015
twelve months previously. Increase of stocks is mainly
responsible for this fairly vigorous growth of the over-
draft weed. However, it hasn't got out of hand yet, by
any means, though it will be just as well to keep an eye
on it. The time may come when bad seasons will blunt
the hoe and make the removal of even a moderate weed
a much tougher problem than it is to-day.
* * * *
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney), which began
in 1905 with a deficit of £BB2 representing preliminary
expenses:—
Dividends.
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1906.. £10,758 .£lO5O 6 p.c. = £4500 £5208 £4,320
1907 .. 12,891 1050 6 „ „ 4500 7341 11,667
1908 .. 14,573 1050 7 „ „ 5250 8273 19,940
1909.. 14,490 1050 8£ „ „ 6375 7065 27,005
1910.. 17,208 1050 8i „ „ 6375 9783 36,788
The Metropole was built and originally owned by the
Australian Coffee Palace Go., of Melbourne. Subse-
quently this co. passed its affairs over to the Hotel Metro,
pole, Ltd., which had a pretty poor time, especially
during the depression of 1903-4 ; so it decided then to recon-
struct. The present co. was the result. It took over the
freehold at £lOO,OOO, though with fixed machinery the
property had stood in the old co.’s books at over £138,000,
and cost the original co. much more than that. The
new co. had a capital of £17,507 in 6 per cent, cumula-
tive pref. shares and £75,000 in ordinary or “ B ” shares ;
total, £92,507. As this wasn’t sufficient the co. acquired
a mortgage of £25,000 ; and it was part of the agree-
ment that this debt had to be wiped out before the
ordinaries could get more than the 6 per cent, to which
the other class of shareholders were entitled. Things
changed for the better almost as soon as the new co.
started ; and it soon put itself into a strong position.
After paying the present divs., there will be reserves of
£36,788. Having got rid of its own debt, the accumula-
ting cash began to burn a hole in its pocket, and it
looked around for an investment in which its special
knowledge, etc., might be turned to profit. The
search happened while the reconstruction of the Austra-
lia Hotel Co. was in the wind. The Metropole Co.
reckoned that this was just what it was looking for, and it
took up £40,000 worth of pref. shares, and invited its share-
holders to come in also. It didn’t have £40,000 in cash,
having recently made some small purchases of land adjoin-
ingits own caravanserai; so it borrowed another £25,000.
It is doubtful, however, whether this £25,000 debt will be
wiped off as fast as the other one was. For one thing,
divs. are no longer restricted to 6 per cent. ; for another
thing, it is now proposed to increase the capital by trans-
ferring thereto £26,000 of reserves. The management
certainly has some excuse for the latter transaction. A
capital of £llO,OOO in the first place would have
been quite reasonable. Instead, the shareholders—who
had the good luck to come in on a very low
valuation —resolved to overdraw, and agreed to limit
the div. till the loan was wiped out. Yet, while the
proposed transaction isn’t therefore as unwise as such
transactions often are, it might have been better to post-
pone it till the new debt of £25,000 had been wiped out.
Still, unless the leopard has changed his spots, there will
be a resolute attack on the debt, and until it is re-
moved the divs. will be kept strictly moderate.
**’■**•
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) : i
Dividends.
Pref. Written
Profits. (6p.c.). Ord. Off. Deficit.
Mar., 1904.. £3750 8 p.c. = £5OOO £164,131
Sept., 1904.. £13,873 3750 8 „ ~ 5000 £720 159,728
Mar., 1905.. 14,887 3750 10 ~ „ 6250 701 155,542
Sept., 1905.. 15,306 3750 10 „ „ 6250 706 150,942
Mar., 1906.. 13,846 3750 10 ~ ~ 6250 722 147,818
Sept., 1906.. 16,012 3750 10 „ „ 6250 724 142,530
Mar., 1907.. 15,600 3750 12 ~ „ 7500 962 139,142
Sept., 1907.. 15,666 3750 12 „ ~ 7500 979 135,705
Mar., 1908.. 16,579 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 989 131,365
Sept., 1908.. 17,436 3750 12 ~ „ 7500 4085 129,264
Mar., 1909.. 15,485 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1287 126,316
Sept., 1909.. 18,773 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1568 120,361
Mar., 1910.. 17,987 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1338 114,962
Sept., 1910.. 20,870 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1403 106,745
It will be noticed that there is a Deficit column instead
of one devoted to Reserves. This is due to the existence
of a goodwill or paper item of £198,000. The capital of
the co. is £250,000 ; for that money shareholders got
£52,000 of property they could see, or feel, or smell;
the other £198,000 was represented by goodwill—which
consists mainly of the habit that many people have of
buying the Herald to read about the bloodstain or
Trumper’s score. From the co.’s point of view it is a
valuable habit while it lasts ; but it is much too nebulous
and uncertain a substance to remain in a balance-sheet.
Therefore in the table it has been disregarded. Though
there is still a deficit of £106.745 —that is to say, that
much of the capital not represented bv tangible assets—
the co. in its nine years has made £91,255 more profit
than it has paid away in divs. ; and that too is after allow-
ing for depreciation of plant, etc. In the past six years
the position has improved in this way
, 1904. 1910.
Freehold and fittings £31,243 £50,542
Machinery 25,146 26,660
Stock .. .. .. .. .. .. 9,281 14*631
Debentures, deposits, book debts, etc.,
less liabilities 33,352 62,674
Book debts included in the last-mentioned lump are
5ma11—£12,253. Except for the big goodwill item, the
position is therefore very good indeed ; and, unless the
co. is struck by very strenuous opposition, another 10
years, at the outside, should see the reserve funds big
enough to clear out paper make-weight and show
the shareholders 20s. of freeholds and practically liquid
assets for every £1 of their capital. The capital is repre-
sented by an equal number of pref. and ordinary shares,
all fully paid to £l.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Co.
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £1395 6p.c.= £9OO £495 £15,743
June, 1904.. 986 6 „ ~ 900 86 15,829
Dec., 1904.. 1269 6 „ ~ 900 369 16,198
June, 1905.. 881 6,, ~ 900 10,179
Dec., 1905.. 1069 6,, ~ 900 169 16,348
June, 1906.. 806 6,, ~ 900 16,254
Dec., 1906.. 1316 6,, ~ 900 416 16,670
June, 1997.. 739 6,, ~ 900 16,509
Dec., 1907.. 1186 6 „ „ 900 286 16,795
June, 1908.. 896 6,, „ 900 16,791
Dec., 1905.. 1261 6,, ~ 900 361 17,152
June, 1909.. 1161 6,, ~ 900 261 17,413
Dec., 1909.. 1464 6,, ~ 900 564 17,977
June, 1910.. 1792 6 ~ ~ 900 £lOOO 17,869
Dec., 1910.. 1740 6 „ ~ 900 500 340 18,209
That £5OO shown as written off is a sum set aside to pro-
vide for alterations and repairs about to be made ; but it
is probably just as well to wipe it out at once. The
co. owns the Bridge-street building, of which even a
Minister for Grace and Elegance would probably approve.
At least it owns most of it. The book value is £70,000 ;
and, as capital and reserves couldn’t provide the lot,
£20,437 has been raised by a plaster upon the building,
secured by debentures. The money was borrowed 10
years ago to put a two-storey cap on the premises. No
depreciation has been written off since then ; on the
other hand, numerous additions and improvements,
including some storeys put on top of the Aarons’
Exchange Hotel part of the property, have not swollen
the book value, so at present the property is no doubt
worth book value. Before the money was borrowed the co.
paid divs. ranging from 7 to 10 per cent. ; and the profits
have lately been again capable of something better than
6 per cent. When the present overhaul is completed
another morsel may perhaps be added, though for every
£1 that goes that wav £1 ought to go towards wiping out
the debenture debt. Sentiment alone ought to be
enough to decide the co. to get the official headquarters
of Sydney’s commerce out of pawn.
*#*•*
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (Sydney)
Net Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits, , Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1901.. £3Ol 6p.c. =£4s £256 £256
1902.. 1,528 6 „ ~104 £1,262 162 418
1903.. 2,957 6,, ~ 253 2,583 121 539
1904.. 2,778 6 „ „ 320 2,147 311 850
1905.. 4,958 6 „ ~ 368 4,188 402 1252
1906.. 4,206 6 „ „ 432 4,126 900
1907.. 4,352 6 „ ~479 3.873 900
1908.. 8,010 6 „ ~535 7,285 190 1090
1909.. 9,924 6 „ „ 704 9,186 34 1124
1910.. 10,144 6 „ „ 865 .10,403
Sept.,
1910.. 5,649 _ 5649
The accounts no\v published are interim ; the appropria-
tions are made after the jVlarch balance. The size of the
reserves at present, therefore, means little or nothing.
Six months ago the co. made the deplorable mistake
of mopping up the whole of its reserves and distributing
them. It even went to the length of transferring its
little reserve fund back to profit and loss so that it might
swell its bonuses and continue its 6 per cent. div. The
bonus to consignors actually amounted to more than the
profit for the term. That means that the people who
supplied the goods during the term were paid more than
the value of the goods after deducting working expenses ;
they were not only paid for their own goods, but they got a
little of the proceeds of the goods supplied' (pro-
bably by other people) in previous terms, and re-
tained at the time in order to strengthen the business.
If the suppliers practically insisted upon a bonus of this
size—if it was necessary to pay such a bonus in order to
stop the business front going to non-co-operative con-
cerns—then they are wretchedly poor co-operators.
True co-operators, instead of sucking the co. of every
penny, would take a pride in building up a great and
strong concern ; and obviously a great and strong con-
cern can’t be built up by grabbing every penny that is
made. It is no use saying that the business is
big. That is admitted ; the turnover this year will no
doubt exceed £1,000,000 ; for the past six months alone
it was £521,137. Instead, hou'ever, of being a source of
strength, the size of the business actually is an element
of weakness. For the bigger the business, the bigger the
risks ; and the bigger the funds ought to be to meet those
risks. Genuine co-operators should therefore set their
faces against very big bonuses ; and if they have been
pressing the management to pay them they should drop
the foolish practice, and encourage the directors to
strengthen the foundations of the business and put it
almost beyond the possibility of collapse, even though
some at present unseen disaster should happen along.
S. Australia is giving its State Bank some more
good work to do. Under the Advances to Workers Act
lately passed and now in operation, anybody in receipt of
less than £3OO a year can get an per cent, advance to
secure a home. That is to say, if the property is valued
at £5OO the bank will advance £4OO. Payments on
account of principal and interest are to be made monthly
or quarterly ; interest, 4£ per cent, for prompt payments,
5 per cent, otherwise. A man can borrow for 42
years in certain cases; but a shorter term —though
not so short as to make the repayments irksome—
is recommended. Say a man borrows £5OO and makes
the term-20 years. To borrow'that much the property
must be worth £625. He may borrow to build ; and he
may put his own labor into it, to count towards the
value. On the borrowed £5OO he will pay £3 6s. 3d. per
month for the 20 years. Thus a man who has £125 cau
get a home valued at £625 for about 16s. 6d. per week—no
more than, on the average, he would pay as rent. If
he paid rent he would go on paying till he pegged
out a mansion somewhere else, and the landlord
would still own the earthly tabernacle and pro-
bably turn the widow out for failure to pay the
first month’s rent after the previous tenant’s funeral. In
the other case, after paying the 16s. 6d. per week for the
20 years, there are no more payments to be made, no
more landlords to cajole or curse, no more danger of the
widow being turned out on to the pavement. Of course
a man needn’t own £125 to make a start. He can get at
least a roof over his head on £25. It is the best and
most practicable scheme yet introduced for enabling the
city worker to get rid of the landlord ; and the sooner the
Labor Government introduces it to N. S. Wales the better.
That Government already has the machinery in the
Advances Department of the Savings Bank.
*■»■**
“ W.C.Gr.” : When Mort’s Dock and Engineer-
ing Co. (Sydney) issued its preference shares, a few
years ago, it was with the idea that some day
it might be able to buy Up the shares in
the market or else extinguish the preferential
rights. The co. is generally suspected to have done well
during the past few years ; in fact, ever since the blight
of Federation arrived. Although the blight hasn’t yet
fallen with sufficient thoroughness to impose a stiff duty


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Hoard has its own offices
at 40 Huntrr Strkkt, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
, At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked'“VlA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
BETTI N CTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
on foreign-built vessels, and thus encourage Mort’s
Dock and other place’s to produce a local article,
-till the elusive shoal and the gay barnacle have
done their best towards bringing in repairing business,
and the co.’s big docks have been working overtime,
Purin" the past five years the co. has undertaken a number
of extensive improvements out of revenue (such as the
lengthening of Woolwich dock), no hint of which has been
liven in the accounts. In fact, there are no accounts to
speak of, and the first admission that extra profits have
been made will come in the shape of a proposal t,o deal
with the preference shares. Obviously, some compensa-
tion will have to be given to the preference shareholders
for the conversion, and probably it will take tbe ° f
increased dividends. At present prefs. get 6 P e^ cent-
and ordinaries get the same. The market values the
former at 235., the latter at 225. #
Having settled its troubles at Broken Hill in
advance, the Sulphide Corporation has struck some at
the Cockle Creek smelting works, over the old union t).
non-union business. The management probably hasn t
been worrying much about the shut-down. Unfortunately,
it pays just about as well to send concentrates to
Europe for smelting as to do the work here ; in fact,
several of the cos. say it pays better, and even the Sulphide
Corporation sends off the greater part of its output to
foreign furnaces.
* * *
The cable mentioning that the Sulphide Cor-
poration had declared a 15 per cent. div. has been fol-
lowed from London by the annual report. The years
profit to June 30 was £204,800 net. After paying the
div. on £962,500 and making other appropriations, there
is £127,525 to carry forward. There are 550,000 pref.
shares paid to£l, and the same number of ordinaries paid
to 15s. The co. has done splendid work for itself and Aus-
tralia in connection with zinc-concentration ; and more
than half of its profits come from that process, though
the lead mill would no doubt beat it if the metals pro-
duced at those works had the improved market that has
been so long looked for.
* * * *
Kyloe (N.S. W.) is now almost friendless. At
any rate its friends are no longer able, if they are willing,
to support it ; and, robbed of their market prop, the
shares are down to about ss. It was in the hands of an
over-sanguine crowd who wouldn’t look at the matter on
the basis of hard figures, and talked the stock up to
over 20s. when there was no more than about Bs.
visible in the mine. The delusive argument in such
cases is that, as the second level was better than the
first and the third better than the second, there-
fore the fourth might be expected to be better
than the third, and the fifth better than the fourth.
People who are prone to argue that way with themselves
had better go to the nearest Donizetti Peanutto and
buy a pear—a plain, garden variety of pear ; one of the
long, tapering-sort for choice. Then, putting it on end,
with the stalk in the air and the butt-end on the desk,
they will be reminded of what may happen to a lode.
The peargoes on increasing in bulk until it reaches its
maximum ; and then the way it peters out is sickening.
Lodes often behave in the same inconsiderate manner—
copper lodes especially. Perhaps share-market troubles
have knocked Kyloes down too far, nevertheless ; and
there may yet be money iff the property for somebody.
* * * *
The Golden Mile mines depend almost entirely
on local firewood for their fuel supplies. These supplies
are in the hands of certain companies which have built
long light railways through the forests, and contract
with a horde of Austrians, Italians and others to cut the
wood. An agreement expired with the Yew Year, and,
led by an Irishman who laughs at arbitration, the
choppa-de-wood man has taken a holiday, and, drawing
his money, has made a stir in the hotel business.
The leaders say the Court has no jurisdiction over con-
tractors, and they want their full schedule of demands
or nothing. Some of the mines can’t go on beyond the
middle of the month.
* * * *
Though it would be a good thing for the parties
to submit the matter to arbitration, the Kalgoorlie
timber-getters can’t be accused of flouting the Arbitra-
tratiou law by refusing to arbitrate. They don’t sell
their labor; they sell wood. Consequently, in
a recent case, after a party had worked for
weeks, and then had its stack of firewood burned,
the cutters didn’t get a penny. The trouble will
no doubt give a lift to the agitation for building the
Norseman-Esperance railway. If that work were done,
coal could be landed from the eastern coalfields at a
reasonable price. But if Perth and Fremantle and the
coastal farming districts can block it, they will. A port
at Esperance won’t make things any better for Fremantle
and Perth, however much better it might make
things for the country. Their strongest plea is that,
though a few thousands might build the line, it would
take hundreds of thousands to make a safe port; and
Perth and Fremantle want to know whether that’s worth
while in view of the fact that Kalgoorlie is a shrivelling
proposition. Something authoritative ought to be avail-
able on the question of the alleged costliness of turning
Esperance into a safe harbor.
* * * *
The Transvaal, Southern Cross (W.A.), is one
of those propositions which the modern metallurgist loves
to get hold of. The shoot of ore is 1200 ft. long and of
good width. Down to 80ft. the ore was oxidised and
tractable, but below this the lode is heavily charged with
arsenic. The ore is 3ft. to 15ft. wide at 140 ft., and worth
60s. plus the arsenic. Bewick, Moreing and Co. have
taken the problem in hand on an option of £7OOO. If
they make a deal, it is likely to cost £40,000 to build a
plant and get decent returns. If a plant is put up, there
will most likely have to be arsenic arrestors, for it is con-
sidered the fumes would be so great as to blight even
the flamboyant optimism of those connected with the
Bullfinch. However, in this there is a chance of a new
industry, for Australia imports a lot of arsenic, and
orchard work promises to call for a great deal more.
* * * *
The latest in connection with the Golden Horse-
shoe (W.A.) is to encourage the idea that the lodes should
only be stoped when showing a good profit. This is sound
enough in some ways ; but in the Golden Mile lodes one
never knows when a rich shoot is coming in where the
country is a little broken. And, besides, what is to be
done with the elaborate new plant to treat 30,000 tons a
month? Looking at it all ways, the Horseshoe seems to
have run amok, and either Germany or France will take
possession if the present management cannot redeem
latest promises.
* * * *
The bottom levels of the Great Boulder are not
showing much improvement as far as the nature of the
country is concerned. There seems to be a general dis-
turbance hereabouts, and some diamond drilling down-
wards may be done to find out whether the lode makes
within reasonable distance.
* ** *
Gwalia South (W.A.) is facing a bad drop in its
stoping values. It is likely the recovery in future will be
nearer 325. than the 425. so far given out in annual
estimates.
The Ivanhoe (W.A.) will decrease its monthly
profit this year, making it (according to present inten-
tions) £lB|ooo instead of £20,000. The directors state*
however, that the gross profits (including interest front
investments and so forth) will be £220,000. This will
give £1 per share, provided the profits are distributed.
The present rate may thus be maintained without a
bonus.
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.) has again been getting itself
talked about in the local paper. According to “ Share-
holder,” the stopes are in a bad condition, and things
generally, both above and below ground, want seeing to;
Anxious inquiries are also made as to the whereabouts of
the consulting engineer’s report, and an urgent invitation
is given shareholders to awake, arise! In view of previous
indebtedness, losses sustained during the current financial
year, and the way in which the co.’s affairs have been
conducted, it is amazing that shareholders have not
kicked before now,
* * * *
Burbanks Main Lode (W.A.) has now got evert,
and hopes to pay a dividend before long. Last year’s
revenue totalled £31,885; ahd, if the co. hadn’t paid all
its debts, the report says shareholders would have got
something. No doubt. But then see how much more
there Would have been to play up if the year’s operations
hadn’t cost anything, and how much more still there
would have been if the co. had got into Bullfinches on
the ground-floor and out again on the top.
* ■* * *
Bellevue (W.A.), the refractory proposition
which J. Bull has bumped his nose against, has issued
accounts for two years. To June 30, 1909 (12 months), a
loss of £15,460is shown, including depreciation (£11,461);
for the next 12 months the loss, including depreciation
(£2671), was £10,286. Finances are in a bad way, and the
outlook is rotten. The co., with a paid capital Of
£146,407, is now pottering along with a few tributors.
* * *
Queensland Government has appointed a Com-
mission consisting of Dr. Elkington, Commissioner of
Public Health, Chief Inspector of Mines Jacksofl, and
Murphy, of Croydon, to investigate the causes of miners*
phthisis in Bananaland. The disease is said to be more
prevalent at Croydon than on any other field in Queens-
land.
* * * *
Charters Towers can look back with a fair
amount of satisfaction on last year’s total harvest of
£657,789. Indivs. the year gave £101,854-—New Brilliant
Freehold, £45,000; Mills’ United, £22,500; and Brilliant
Extended, £18,750. After settling for calls, the northern
goldfield had a surplus of £44,081. Brilliant Extended
may get into first place this year, for its reserves are
60,000 tons, valued at over £2 per ton, whereas last year’s
two largest are restricting their output and have a lot of
development on hand. In the share market East Mexican
has climbed into first favor. Yet the Mexican hasn’t paid
a dividend, and mine development will take a slice
out of the revenue for some time to come,
•
East Mexican has the shaft nearly down to
No. 5 level. A widening of the reef at the eastern end of
No. 5 has painted the future a still rosier hue. A big
area close to a payable reef always appeals to the imagina-
tion. Besides, there is no doubt that the Mexican
has the Day Dawn formation for some hundreds of feet
above the highly payable reef developed in No,
6 level. Some time since Mexican shareholders
were very down-hearted because No. 6 had been driven a
long distance with very poor prospects ; but the reef
made again to the east, and it is hoped that No. 4, which
will shortly be opened, will have the same luck and im-
prove as it is driven on. There are certainly instances on
Charters Towers where a payable shoot of stone appears
to be confined to deep levels ; but even if that proves to
be the case here, the Mexican has a big area ahead of
No. 5, which is barely half-way across the lease.
* * # ' *
Treating 3550 tons of stone and 3500 tons of
tailings, Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, produced
£8650 worth of gold, from which it made a profit of £1685
for a month’s run. This mine is now the largest pro-
ducer on the field. There are 250,000 shares, on which
Is. 6di was paid last year. Reserves are estimated at
60,000 tons ; so if the profit made last month is main-
tained right through the reserves, shareholders may ex-
pect about 2s. 3d. during the next 18 months.
* * * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, has been
driven to make a call. From a crushing of 371 tons £919
was recently obtained ; but the Bonnie is up against an
expensive prospecting campaign.
Encouraged by Bendigo experience, Charters
Towers speculators are searching old shows a few miles
out. Occasionally they meet with a good thing like the
Stockholm or the Cumberland.' Blucher’s Victory, at the
Broughton, also crushed 186 tons for £lO2O just before
the holidays ; but it is still doubtful whether this reef
will be picked up in No. 4 level. * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) has had a develop-
ment of dense pyritic ore in a winze sunk from the sur-
face at the southern end of the lease. But as good
developments of this kind are often patchy and due to a
leaching of the porous gossan, the brake had better be
kept on. No satisfactory arrangement has yet been made
with regard to the building of a railway to the Duchess
mine. The Queensland Government is splashing money ;
but there are no less than three copper mines—the
Duchess, the Macgregor, and Mt. Cuthbert—all trying
to make out a case for a railway at State expense. So
the Government is sparring for wind.
* * * *
Oaks Rush Co. (Q.) has had to make a call.
There Was a profit from the rich crushings put through
last year ; but the purchase and transport of the battery
cost a deal of money. Most of the machinery is now on
the lease, and its erection is well in hand. The Oaks
Rush, to make sure of a supply of stone, has purchased
an adjoining lease, which contains a big reef of medium
value. Whatever the prospects may turn out to be
below the 100 ft. level, the battery is sure of payable stone
at the start; and it is to be hoped the mistake won’t be
made of playing up all the profits.^
Oswald’s North British is again the boss-cocky
at Maldon (Vic.). When the South German came along
under W. B. Gray, Oswald’s fell under a cloud and re-
mained there till its rival met with trouble on the
German Deep boundary. Many Maldonites of the practi-
cal mining order shook their heads with mistrust
when what one of them described as an “overgrown
slab” named Oouchinan took charge of Oswald’s,
with R. A. Moon, ex-Government Geologist, as adviser to
the controlling Oswald brothers. Since then, neverthe-
less, the mine has moved on steadily. At times expenses
have been met; at others, nice divs. have come to the
estate that has held the claim since the days when
“Jock” Mclntyre and the Oswalds were the kings of
Maldon. Parkin’s reef runs through the claim, and there
are big chambers in the upper levels to show how
the stone was gouged out in the days of the
rich stuff. Parkin’s reef now is mostly less than a
2dwt. proposition, but here and there are droppers,
or saddles, that carry gold and help things on.
Over a million pounds’ worth of gold has come
from Oswald’s. It is worked as modestly as a
fantan shop, so that nine out of every 10 mining men, if
asked, could not tell where the North British is.
Government mining returns every quarter let out the
secret that good yields are being got, but are silent as to
the total wealth that has been drawn from this vener-
able pioneer by an estate that lives as much by mining
as does Lansell’s.
Talking of Lansell’s estate* the story is out that
some of the mining interests have passed from the hands
Of the trustees into those of two sons of the famous old
Bendigonian. £BO,OOO is the bit of oof they are
Credited with having paid to get possession of the claims.
Now the further secret is out that the North Red;
White and Blue and the Little 180 are to be put on
the market, each in a 40,000-share co. at £2 per share;
If old George Lansell was a good miner his boys appear
to be good dealers, for, provided the pdbiic smiles on the
floats, then a clear £BO,OOO will be netted over the pur-
chase. Little 180 is the forerunner of the Central Red,
White and Blue; and for many a day has been adding up
profits from a nice shoot of stone, supposed to be the
Continuation of that worked by the Central Blue. North
Red has a position interest. So there is no fear in the
market that the Sheepshead line boom will merely mean
the passing of a big sum into the pockets of the Lansell
pair.
* * * *
Still Creek, alias Korweemguboora, is giving
the Victorian peggers some occupation. A little knot of
prospectors* nosing about, have come upon a vein that
pans out anything from soz. to 20oz. to the ton. But an
indicator vein exposed by a 12ft. incline shaftisn’t enough
to build up a Bullfinch boom in Victoria.
* * * *
North Mount Lyell has several rich stobes
above the 1100 ft. level, and the impending development
at the northern end of the deepest level is giving a fillip
to Lyell shares. The last three monthly returns have
been" 540, 666 and 619 tons of copper. The electrolytic
works at Port Kembla recover about £l2 or £l3 worth of
gold and silver per ton of copper ; but, of course, the whole
of it isn’t profit. That could only be the Case if elem
troly tic copper commanded a premium over ordinary sorts
equivalent to the cost of refining operations. On very
rare occasions that has occurred, but the tendency is
rather towards an over-supply of electrolytic, because
of the very large present production of blister containing
silver or gold. Fully three-fourths of the Australian
copper—about 30,000 tons a year—goes through the
electrolytic process.
♦ 4 * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) is prospecting the
deeps down to the 2430 ft. level, where a penthouse has
been installed. There is a fairly large ore body at the
2190 ft. level, carrying 5 per cent, copper across the full
width of the western face. Ore carrying 5 per cent, at
present prices is worth 58s. per ton, aiid most big copper
mines consider themselves in luck if they get a furnace
extraction of half that much. The other deep levels
carry from 4 to 5 percent, ore, so, taken as a whole, these
developments, at more than twice the depth of any
other copper mine in Australia, are encouraging. The
Wallaroo and Moonta has, however, very little to say
about reserves; hence the market value is only £350,000
for 160,000 shares, as against Mount Lyell’s £1,800,000
or more for 1,200,000 shares. Mount Lyell has paid
£2,436,574 in dividends. Wallaroo and Moonta has given
£2,075,250. But, as remarked above, Wallaroo has scooped
the metal out to nearly twice the depth of the Lyell; and
you can’t pay a div, from the level that is past.
* * * *
N.B.E. : Can’t advise as to mining 5pec5,,...,,
Wander : (1) Neverseen a balance-sheet. (2) In existence
about 12 months. (3) Can’t say anything about their
stability.
* * * *
For December Waihi (M.L.) got £64,446 from
33,591 tons, making £916,081 for the year—a drop of
£43,500 from the previous 12 months’ total. Waihi Grand
Junction won £11,326 from 7000 tons, making £133,522
for the year—an increase of £33,600 on the output for
1909.
* * * *
Big Jim Wilkinson would be a very annoyed
man if he were alive. After long, perishing exploration
and wearying negotiation, he sampled the Ashmore
Islands for guano, thought well of them, and secured a
long lease from Bull’s Government. He floated a co. in
Adelaide, and six months after his death the co. got a
belated move on and chartered a windjammer, which
was alleged to be good for 1000 tons of freight. The co.
appointed a manager, and he took a gang with him, and
the windjammer reached the Ashmores, and loaded at
the pace of an excited snail. By the time the loading was
done the ship had eaten half the value of the guano in
demurrage ; and after that she floated into Spencer’s Gulf
instead of into Hobson’s Bay. She didn’t carry 1000
tons, and her owners said they wouldn’t take the guano
anywhere else, and, meantime, that able-bodied ruffian
Demurrage worked three shifts and ate up all the value
of the cargo and a bit over. After that there was nothing
for the co. but liquidation. So another good thing
passes into limbo at the hands of neglect and rotten
management somewhere.
* * * *
The men who rushed Bullfinch prospects on to
the London market overdid it; and, when he had got his
breath, J. Bull’s remarks were bitter enough to dis-
courage even a company-promoter. The British Austral-
asian called the Golden Bullfinch (capital, £lOO,OOO, in
400,000 shares) the Painted Sparrow, and remarked acidly :
“ The lease was acquired less than a month ago for £5OOO,
and is now resold to the Golden Bullfinch Mine, Ltd., for
£40,000 (payable as to £15,000 in cash and £25,000 in
shares), although it is admitted that ‘no development
work has yet been carried out’ on it. This is promoting
pour vivc, and it is to be hoped that the particulars in
the prospectus themselves (and especially the fact that
the enterprise is brought out under the auspices of the
Murchison Associated of six-times-reconstructed noto-
riety) will have proved sufficient to have warned off the
most unsophisticated mining investor from applying for
its shares. There might have been some justification for
the venture as a prospecting concern with a capital of
£5000.” Also the refusal of the Chaffinch people to allow
the option-holders to “dig a hole or sink a costeen” was
received with a pretty unanimous guffavy.
* * *
Canterbury (M.L.) is rejoicing over the alleged
discovery of great seams of good coal at Broken River, on
the route of the Midland Railway. The Land Board has
o-ranted leases covering 1000 acres ; and if the rejoicings
are not too previous Christchurch.should be getting its
coal at about half the present price in the near future.
* * * *
Taranaki Oil Co.’s bore (M.L.) is spouting oil
freelv, and the co. has notified the Government that it is
goin" to claim £2500 bonus on the production of 250,000
gallons of crude petroleum. The Gisborne bore is still
going down, and is emitting a lot of gas, but little oil as
yet. The boring syndicate hopes the present results are
not to be taken as an omen.
* * *
“Red Tape Junior ”: I see that demi-Minister
Carmichael (N.S. W.) announces that, as local loan money
isn’t coming along as fast as the McGowen Government
can spend it, it has been decided to raise the interest rate
from 3J to 3J per cent. As this is a confession on the
part of the Government that it isn’t a fair proposition to
ask the public to lend money at 3£ per cent., we in the
service are anxious to learn the Government’s candid
opinion of itself in offering | per cent, more to wealthy
three-balldom than it pays on the superannuation money
taken by force from its penurious clerks. The Govern-
ment has coolly hung on to all the money paid in before
1896, and has had the use of it for over 14 years at 3 per
cent, simple interest. Yet I haven’t heard that McGowen
has told Carmichael to treat his officers as well as he
treats the pawnbroker. In fact, the only remarks con-
cerning the pawnbroker that have reached my hearing
since the State Labor party took office is that a fresh
supply of him should be obtained forthwith at his own
P rioe -' *
No doubt as the result of the disastrous
smashes that have happened in the Mt. Morgan
mine, two Mt. Morgan electricians, H. W. Lee and
G. H. Weedman, have invented a mine alarm. The
simple contrivance was tried lately at Gympie, and now
has the favorable mei*ion of several mining men. It
consists simply of a fork on a tripod. This fork is ad-
justed until it touches the roof, and the least crush
operates an electric alarm. It may be of value ; it cer-
tainly is simple and inexpensive. The lion in its path
seems to be that probably not one creep in 50 happens by
eighths of an inch at a time. The stuff forms the roof one
second; the next it is on the floor.
New RaVeristvood (Q.) did not hold its last
Annual meeting: ih London without one oh two questions
about the office expenses. A Queenslahd shareholder
made sdme vigorous remarks ; but nothing-happened. A
reduced quantity of lower-grade stone put through the
mill is the co.’s other trouble; and the second is just
about as easy to abolish as the first.
* # * *
Once again Ah Sin wears the smile that is
childlike and bland. Amid a blare of trumpets, the
Bewick-Moreing-Govett brigade told the world they had
found tens of thousands of tons of silver-lead ore in Burffidh
oidy waiting means of communication to yield great
riches; A railway has been built and other plant put in.
but it is now found that Ah Sin, who left tile heaps 6f
tailings on top and the ore ip the levels, knew a bit, and it
is not likely that a dividerid of nuich in the pound' will be
declared. It is now practically Certairi that the take
View shareholders; who allowed the directors to j>ut up a
great bunch of cash; will never see their money again.
So bad is the situatioh that most of the staff want to
quit, and if they are not relieved soon they may relieve
themselves;
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil< so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are In continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc* Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourrie ; or E. \V. Hursthouse & Go,,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
« * • «
“Ferrodor” Paint,—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort's
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbitry, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc. 1
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
♦ # # ♦
It takes a long period of success to justify Con-
fidence in manufacturers, but for niany years the product
of The Farnley Iron Company Limited, Leeds, has been
recognised by engineers as the highest class of iron (best
Yorkshire), safe under the most onerous tests. For
Rolling Stock, Ship Building and General Engineering
Work it is indispensable, being used by all Australian
State Railways. To be obtained from Sole Agents, Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency Limited, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, and Fremantle, W.A. ; also Reid Brothers and
Russell Prop'y, Ltd., Melbourne ; and Oiias. E. Bkrnays,
Brisbane.*
* * * *
The most modern* simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “ Wilfle.v.” It is continuous, and Con-
sists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged iff a
tank of slimes or lnaterial to be filtered. The drum is
covered with a filter cloth supported o,n grooves on the
drum, which are connected by means of holes to the
interior to allow the liquid to be withdrawn. Through
the trunnions at the ends of the drum the Vacuum pipe
passes to the interior. This pipe connects with the
interior of the drum, through which the liquid and aw-
are withdrawn by means of a vacuum pump. The filtered
slime is removed by a simple apparatus placed at or
below the level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly
the cake is removed the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp ready to
receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the sucking in
of air, and consequent loss of vacuum between the tiipe
the cake is removed and a fresh one is forming. The
residual liquid in the slime cake is removed by distribu-
ting water over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing
to the fact that the filter is circular in form, it will be
seen that it is continuous in operation, and has no com-
plication of valves to get out of order ; furthermore,
work is being done continuously during the whole revolu-
tion of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* [2
* * * *
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 9-H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets. In
large size, Bft. 2Jin. x 4ft. x(about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and
581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [1
• * * *
The Financial Times, London, in its issue <>'
9/10/’OB, comments as follows upon the last report of Tl>
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ Y\ «
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in 12
months can secure proposals for more than a million and
three-quarters, and issue 4853 policies for £1,278,000.
However vigorous the driving may be, such a result could
not be attained if the Society did not offer what many
people want.”*
* * * *
Where acids and minerals are potent in spil or
water there can be no question that Wood Pipe is the
most satisfactorvpipe to instal. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send catalogue on appli-
cation.*
• * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting
If so, write to Griffiith and Hassell, registered Patent
Attorneys for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives ofallgrades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks onhand.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, whicli is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica.
tion [and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
+ it * *
One of the oldest and best-known engineering
concerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary compan v with a capital of £150,000, and will
now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, the
governing directors being Mephan Ferguson and Robert
Shand. The head office and works are at Gordon Street,
Footscray, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* • ■* *
Assayers, Mink Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bpurke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh • hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgans crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


R
Csiab
1818
R°BU
1 say, deah, i< n’t this weather
something awful? It really
isn’t fit to be about come,
let’s go and have a cup of
tea. What nonsense 1 why it
has been proved without a
shadow of doubt that women
who drink tea have better
complexions than those who
don’t—just look at the English
and the Russian girls, what
lovely complexions they have,
and they drink a frightful lot
of tea I’m told.
Of course, one should be
careful as to the sort of tea
one drinks whether it’s pure
and cleanly packed and freshly
made and all that sort of
thing but for goodness sake
don’t let us worry, life’s too
short, deah besides, we’re
alright, we only drink Robur,
and it’s pure tea, and pure
tea will harm nobody all 1
know is that if l miss my
afternoon cup l get a Splitting
headache, and mother’s just
the same as 1 am. We used
to use the No. 2 Grade, but
lately we’ve been taking the
No. 1, and we like it so much,
it’s simply lovely!
The Block Girl.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, January 16, 1911.
My Dear Arint,—
This one evening the Battenberg Prince will
have in Sydney, and he will spend it at the
“Gibbs” musical farce. The news must surely
affect the chorus and send its tempera-
ture up. In a London paper portraits of
chorus maidens are published over the label
“Prospective Peeresses.” There’s no time now,
or the names of the chorus at the Royal might be
printed over the conundrum : “Find the prospec-
tive princess.” The Prince is young, and said to
be uninteresting; but his doctor, Mcllroy, who is
well known to many Sydneysiders, has conversa-
tional and personal attractions sufficient for
many. He doctored on one of our liners,
and it was by chance and in Egypt he
first met Prince Leopold and ministered to him,
The Mills (the Union S.S. Mills, of M.L.) were
fellow-passengers of the Prince from London, and
the two parties got quite chummy. His trip to
Maoriland—he leaves day-after-to-morrow—is a
breakaway from his originally-planned route, and
is probably undertaken on the invitation of the be-
knighted James Mills, seconded by a striking wife
and a pretty daughter.
Rain and the Science Congress descended upon
Sydney together. Both visitations have been
singularly depressing. I asked one of the gal-
lant secretaries of the Congress to put me on to
the trail of a “juicy” paper. He coldly replied
that he couldn’t presume to say that any of the
five or six hundred papers would prove juicy, and
handed me a soup-ticket, admitting me to all the
sections and any old function, in connection with
the riding of the very wooden hobby-horses.
Too late I learn what I’ve missed ! Whilst
wandering about looking for the University
kitchen (I wanted to make some use of the ticket)
these papers were being read by Mr. Tomkyns, of
Charters Towers (I like Charters Towers : it has
sent me several donations for the Hospice) :
(1) “ A Direct Method of Establishing the Converse of
a Proposition." The author explained that it was pro-
posed to call a. proposition of which the subject and pre-
dicate were the negative of the subject and predicate of
another proposition the complementary of that pro-
position.
(2) “An Inductive Method of Deriving Formulae.”
Holy Frost! No wonder the sec. declined to
commit himself about “juicy ” papers !
Professor Benham also read a paper on “The Affinities
of the Invertebrate,Fauna of the Kermadecs.”
. -£• quite-cultured gentleman came a considerable
distance to hear Professor Henderson, of Adelaide,
on “ The Mutation Theory of Evolution in
History.” He said that “Henderson was the
best orator of the lot, and would be most worth
heading.” Asked later how he liked the paper,
he replied that he had to miss it because he went
to Idanly.
An ungallant discussion on the age of the earth
seems to have aroused considerable interest.
Twelve years ago, as soon as radium was dis-
covered, the scientists sent the age of the earth
up to 300,000,000 of years from Kelvin’s 40,000,000.
Prof. Laby was wise, learned and respectful in
dealing with the planet’s past and her private life
—the life inside her crust. Three hundred million
years makes an Awful Past. But when we heard
of it 12 years ago none of us felt any different
towards Mother Earth.
“ There is not a piece of science but its flank
may be turned to-morrow.” All the great names
and discoveries of mankind are at the mercy of
anew generation. Astronomers and geologists
have had to revise their beliefs and theories
through the discovery of radium. And the woman
who (with her husband) was responsible for it was,
according to late cables, refused fellowship in the
scientific tribunal of France ! Well, if the earth
is very old, men are pitiably young.
The papers were all of the recondite, abstract
order. The deep-down and the far-off have had
a good show. No one arose and told us the
truth : that we have no talent for living, and that
we don’t know good food from bad, or we wouldn’t
tolerate most of our restaurants, and that it is
next to impossible, save at two places, to get
decently-cooked fish or vegetables. One of the
women paper-readers might have taken up for
censure the question of the exposition of meat in
butchers shops—exposition to all the horrors of
infection of phthisis, typhoid and the rest from
flying dust. A paper on “ How to keep the city
clean ” would have been popular. But evidently
no one had any ideas on street cleaning. The
subject was too near home.
Conversazione with which the Congress curled
its tail and closed its labors was a brilliant success
in spite of the failure of gas in the Great Hall of
the Uni. When responsible parties heard of
the gas strike they hurried away, and
must have bought out several shops’ stocks
of kerosene lamps. There were some elec-
trics, but they winked like the bold, bad baron
in melodrama. Prof. Laby ran a model of the
Brennan monorail in the Engineering school, and
some other demonstrators showed and discoursed
on radium. These were the most popular facets
of the conversazione.
Mrs. George Bestnc, who, report says, was the
first to wear a hobble-skirt ip this lately rained*
upon city, was the cynosure at a tea symposium
just now. (It must be very soothing to be a
cynosure when you are wearing a Doucet model.)
The lady’s enclosure was mainly a coat, skirt and
bodice of fine cloth and satin of a dull peacock (or
paon, if you understand it better in Gallic) shade.
The satin revers were of the Napoleonic order,
huge and flapping loose. On the back of the
neck of the coat was a wide military-looking
ornament, like a glorified epaulette in the wrong
place, of tarnished gold, with a circular opal in
the centre. The bodice was a sweet thing in
satin, with young-rose tulle and cream lace in
the sleeves, and manoeuvres in rose, royal-blue,
flame and milk-white beads on the front.
The way foreign designers have mixed their
colors for the coming season ! Saw a few of the
new season’s hats last week—the shows are not
yet and those I saw were exhibited stealthily as
if the exhibitor should say, “ Hist! We may be
seen, and all is lost!” Royal-blue, cerise and
emerald-green rioted in the models. There was a
toque of musquash and tangerine velvet, and a
rather big hat of pearly stretched satin, with not
a blessed bit of decoration but a tight little
bouquet of hand-made silk flo.wers near the front.
Under the brim at the back was a deep frill of
gold lace —just as if they’d sewn in a gold collar.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan has gone to Tasmania for the
remainder of the summer. She is brooding on a
fascinating idea—the delineation by brush and
pen of the wild gardens of Australia. Not neces-
sarily the wild-flower gardens, but the tame
flowers-run-wild patches. The artist knows of
many such gardens. They, with descriptive
letterpress, even of “ the short and simple annals
of the poor ” kind, ought to make good seeing and
reading. A few months ago, while searching for
a lost bird amongst the primeval gum-growth
near my home, I came on a “volunteer” minia-
ture garden that gave me great joy. For a back-
ground it had a grey paling fence, and a
matted tangle of purple sarsaparilla. One long
tendril of passion vine, winding around a
waratah stem, had two grey flowers, and a
mass of violet-plants grew on the vine’s
feet. _ A group of fragile white and scarlet
poppies in flower, some tall spears of grass,
and an outpost of stiff, white native heath
were trying to ignore the yellow peril of a horde
of marigolds. From the other side of the grey
paling fence had come one long arm of arose bush.
It reached an incredible distance, and bore on the
extremity of the limb a single great pink over-
blown rose which might have been an offering to
the passion vine—or the spirit of the bush. The
time was early dusk; a thin moon was over
the gum tops, and, to finish the picture, a brown
owl came on to the fence and looked at me with
sombre, short-sighted, coppery eyes.
But I don’t suppose that garden had any his-
tory worth recording. Perhaps the man who
threw the tame plants over the fence could supply
what there was of it.
Countess Morner’s return to Sydney was neces-
sitated by the demands of the Land Tax. As
Mrs. White, of Havilah, she was a well-known
big land owner. In the intervals of sectioning or
selling her lands she is studying Swedish—her
Count’s native language.
Mrs. Malcolm Ross, an M.L. writer, passed
through our rain and wind to-day on her way
back from England to M.L. Mrs. Hugh Ward
saw to it that the stranger was not washed or
blown away.
At the Australia these last few days have been
the Vincents, the ex-Mayoral people of Perth,
waiting for the Mantua to take them on to Maori-
land and shivery Rotorua, where the ex-mayoral
lady will try to soak out some rheumatism. The
ex-mayoral man himself won’t stay long in soak,
for he has to hurry back to fight the man who
is now sitting in the chair. Not in the
Marquis of Johnson berry manner, of course; but
in the courts. There were less than a dozen votes
between them; and there’s some doubt whether
they shouldn’t be wiped out and anew election
ordered. T’othersiders say that Perth got a
splendid lot of service in one way and another out
of Mayor Vincent; but he hasn’t the soft answer
that turneth away the wrath of the ratepayer who
has been commanded to pay up —and also, in
some cases, clean up.
Miss Eily Keogh, a Melbourne nice-girl,
daughter of a former Coonamble sheep-owner who
was killed while riding in the Picnic races, has
been in Sydney saying “ till we meet again ” to
friends before departing for Hongkong and matri-
mony with one Captain Mearns. Miss Keogh is
an R.C.; the bridegroom-elect isn’t. But he was
willing to come here to be married anywhere the
lady liked. The Church, however, would
not accept his vows before the altar. It
would only take them in the porch or
some such precinct or environs, and the bride-
to-be wouldn’t abide precincts or environs.
The halter right in front of the altar, or nothing.
In Hongkong the Church evidently makes con-
cessions, and the pair will be married in the best
place on the premises. Captain Mearns is stationed
at Agra. The loss of six hundred pounds’ worth
of her clothes and trinkets in the Pericles Miss
Keogh took to be a broad hint from Providence,
so she has insured her trousseau for the trip to
Asiatic parts. Even the wedding cake is with her
luggage, so it looks as if she won’t have much to
buy in Hongkong.
Friday saw Norman Lindsay back in Sydney
fromhisEuropean trip. Physically he is no stronger
than he would like to be, and less strong than his
friends would like him to be. The fogs oppressed
him ; and the dinners he had to eat—he is a
shrinking mortal—became a nightmare to him.
He wanted sunlight, and came back to get it—
and stepped into about Ift. 3in. of rain. It
was a nasty trick for Australia to play on one of
its brightest and most patriotic young men.
Lindsay, who couldn’t last 24 hours without
work, was in harness within that time.
A death notice in Sydney’s papers has given
a heartache of sympathy for the stricken parents:
DE POSSEL DEYDlEß.—January 14, 1911, Armand
Louis, beloved son of Henri and Helene de Possel
Deydier, aged 26 years. R.I.P.
Mr. de PdSsel Deydier is the general manager in
Sydney of the Messageries Maritimes. The
deceased lad was the only child of the Deydiers.
Another child died at Marseilles some years ago.
Mrs. Deydier was one of the Gerbers, a well-
known local family.
Driftword blown hither from the city that sits
by the Thames is to the effect that Mr. Julius
Knight will organise a company of his very own,
and return to the land that treated him so well!
Knight was the thriftiest member of a usually un-
thrifty profession; and, unless the bank in which
his savings are stacked breaks, or he loses them
on, say, a mumming venture of his own, there are
doors and doors and yet more doors between him
and the wolf. In short, he is Quite Rich.
A man in Adelaide remarked to the de-
parting star of the combination he had lately
quitted: “It is rotten, old man, without you.
You were the whole show.” Promptly he had
a drink and a shilling cigar forced upon him. An
instance of the wasteful and ridiculous excess into
which a fat enough compliment may plunge the
most frugal.
Speaking of surprises: A revival of “Ben
Hur ” is quite probable. Its resurrection after
death by fire some eight or nine years ago would
be a popular renaissance. Sydney will remember
that the Hebrew drama had been running a week
at the old Her Majesty’s, when the chariot races,
miracles, desert caravaning, galley-slaving and
the rest of the wonderful production went up and
out in fire and smoke. Cassandras and Jeremiahs
say that something always happens to “ Ben
Hur.” Whenever and wherever it has been
played Providence has dealt out stoush in divers
forms to the responsible parties, and brought their
devices to nought.
Maorilanders are showing good taste and judg-
ment by the kind of welcome they are giving to
Miss Katherine Grey. There is considerable
warmth and money in it—a Grey and rosy boom
that quite atones for any vacant chairs at her
Sydney performances.
Miss Lucia Collins, eldest daughter of Lottie
Collins, of “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay ” fame, is at
the Tivoli with some new songs. She is a good-
looker, and so is her husband, Dr. Cargill, of
Adelaide. Then there is the little girl Cargill—a
better-looker still. As a triumph of the unusual
in sound, color and luxuriance of language, the
phrase “Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay” exceeds “Yip-I-
addy-I-ay.” No doubt the artistic finish and
intense simplicity of the older wheeze is responsi-
ble for the Yip imitation now raging in Sydney.
Miss “Tot” Gill, who plays a grande dame
part in “Gibbs,” has got a new hat to suit her
own taste. It is of the toque persuasion in velvet,
with a satin crown, and has four large black
willow feathers at the back. It is worn low on the
tall Tot’s head, aud is said by expert hatters to be
the equivalent of peach.
Victor I itzherbert, a young Maorilander, who
plays the Messenger in the very latest “Message
from Mars ” eo., was first intended for the army,
and afterwards for the Bar; but when nearly
through his law exams, he found the call of the
stage too loud to be resisted. He is a son of Mr.
H. S. Fitzherbert, of the M.L. judiciary,
and a grandson of the Fitzherbert who was
Speaker of the Upper House in M.L., and Gover-
nor of Wellington in the old days of Provincial
Government. YoungFitzherbert is the first of the
family to be a professional actor; the other
members have been keen amateurs. There was a
production of “Our Boys” in M.L. some years
ago, in which every member of the cast was a
Fitzherbert.
One of the Royal staff, speaking jocularly to a
constable on Saturday night during the "Gibbs’
performance: “I’ve no doubt the two men vou
want are inside”—meaning the two men who
clambered out of Darlinghurst Gaol at broad mid-
day. As it turns out, they were.
Another Hordern engagement is that of Hug hie
Hordern, a sprout from the Pitt-street branch, to
si Chatswqod girl. Groom-elect is studying
divinity with a view to establishing himself 'in a
cure of souls.
A matrimonial engagement exists between Miss
Pansy Malcolm, of Brookvale, and Mr. Gus Try
(with a name like that one deserves to win some-
thing good), an officer of the Lands Depart-
nient. ±110 Girl in the Case is the possessor
of many assets in and around Manly, and
is posterity to a prominent parly settler of
the same name. The engagement comes to ful-
filment under the Easter moon. Brookvale, along
the ocean past Manly, figures largely in Spencer’s
film of “John Vane, Bushranger,” pictured not
so long ago, wherein the feminine “comic relief ”
is pantomimed by Miss Watts-Phillips, who
“gives way” under the influence of a loaded
revolver held at her head by the hero-villain, a
thing most of us would be guilty of in the same
circumstances.
Three births, two weddings and a crop of
engagements (one to an officer of the ship) hap-
pened on the emigrant ship Mamari, just arrived
here with 500 new-Australians aboard.
Miss Ella Caspers (who, by the way, was to be
married this month) has been selected by conduc-
tor Dr. Cowen to sing the contralto part in a
quartette at a concert to be given by him in the
Queen’s Hall.
Visitors to Medlow Hydro include Mrs. Sydney
Burdekin, Mrs. Alec Hay and her children, and
Mrs. Arthur MacArthur ; Mr. and Lady Graeme
arrivals from the U. Kingdom ; and some legisla-
ting Kidstons and O’Sullivans from Queensland
parts.
Mrs. Fred Aronson, who returned from Mel-
bourne some months ago, has, with her husband
and son, taken up her quarters at Beulah Flats.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd., have issued their
Christmas magazine—“Xmas Chimes, 1910.” It
is a splendid collection of melody, and will keep
your musical temper merry arid bright for 1911.
Invitations to a brilliant ball to be given to the
officers of the visiting Japanese warships at Los
Angeles ha.d to be cancelled because the invited
women intimated that they would not dance with
the guests of honor. The officers retaliated by
declaring “off” the return ball that was to be
given on board their flagship.
Minister of Education Fowlds, his wife and two
daughters, who had been staying at Petty’s
returned to Maoriland Ihst Saturday. Thither
also went Miss Shena Potter, the upcotnmonly
good-looking Girton girl who has,a/mission from
the London School of Economics. She has been
working at the collection of Something in Mel-
bourne and Sydney for some time, and how her
job takes her to M.L. She won’t be side-tracked
by tikis, big salmon or water-spoil ts either.
The mistress of the house welcomes her guests
with “ that indelible smile which hostesses share
with coiffures’models and the Christian martyrs.”
. . . As the majority of the guests are hungry
during the first quarter of an hour of dinner, an
atmosphere of sincerity prevails about the table.”
... “She belongs to a society that has performed
the feat of lifting itself off the ground by its own
purse-strings.” These are sparklets from Ralph
Pulitzer’s “New York Society on Parade.”
Yours affectionately,
AkENEHI.
While S’Africa is trying to forget the
war unpleasantness as fast as possible, and the
British Government is burying the memory of it
under titles to ex-Boer leaders, some blundering
Victorians are making another effort to raise a
“National memorial ” to the local men who had
the bad luck to be killed while helping in the
mischief. There is already a sandstone heap on
St. Kilda-road, commemorating something or
other; but apparently it isn’t large enough or
loud enough, so the Cohentingenters propose to
pass the hat round. The public .may respond,
though this paper would advise the-eolleetors to
use an old hat.
Some years ago, when Sydney’s big Cata-
ract Dam was proposed, Keele, now of the Harbor
irust, was president of the Water and Sewerage
Board. He recommended a dam of 18,000,000,000-
gallon capacity, while the Public Works Depart-
me,nt said 7,000,000,000 gallons would do. After
a ■ )1 8‘ fight, Keele won; but things were made
unpleasant for him, especially in the Works
Department, and he was side-tracked by Wade
to the Harbor Trust. Since then various Works
Department officers have amused themselves by
jeering over Keele’s dam, which was “not only
“ I J r ! ec ) e ssa r y but useless, as it was impossible to
fill it.” Then last week’s rains happened, and it
did fill; and the Works Department was suddenly
smitten by a silence as profound as that which,
many years ago, happened to Mrs. Lot, deceased!
“The Prodigal” on a verbal mystery
The latest files of the Dublin Freeman give a report of
a trial, with a solicitor as plaintiff and an R.C. cleric as
defendant, in which £2OOO was claimed as damages, on
account of a remark that the solicitor’s wife “put the
comether” on him. The case mainly rested on the
meaning of putting “ on a person. Volu-
minous evidence was given on the point, some contending
that it mean t "not only fascinating a person by one’s mental
and physical accomplishments, but also that it frequently
was used to imply immorality between parties” ; whilst
others as strongly contended that it was used only in the
first sense, and was merely “a joke.” The Judge agreed
with the latter view, and the jury finally put “the
comether” on the case by dismissing it with Costs against
the party who tried to impute a bad signification to a
lovely Irish word. The jury’s decision, some thought
was a vindication of the purity of the beautiful old Gaelic
language—the best in which to pray and curse in the
world.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
©Y appointment
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
BRACELETS
Gem Set Flexible Bracelets,
Plain Gold Flexible Bracelets,
Plain Gold Armlets.
The Largest and Best Btock in the Commonwealth to Choose from.
Fine Gold Flexible Bracelet, set with Five Green Tourmalines,
£lO/10/- in Case.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Selections of the Newest Goods forwarded on Approval.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
!I ARDATH
LONDON
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
A good cigarette being one of the
most enjoyable things in which
a man can indulge, our whole
time is occupied in producing
the finest it is possible to make.
No particular price is our aim ;
our first attention is the quality —
then we fix the lowest price we can
•"^*s
m
m
i
m
Types of
British Manhood.
The CRICKETER
finds his consolation for a
“ duck” in the speedy return
to “Winfred” Cigarettes
10 20
6d. 1 1=
Plain or Gold Tipped
Obtainable of all leading Tobacconists,
Stores, Clubs, Hotels, &c„ throughout
Australia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
500,000 Copies Already Sold of the Popular
Bookstall Series of Australian Novels.
WRITTEN, ILLUSTRATED AND PRINTED IN AUSTRALIA. Price I 1 I- each, post free 1/3
“THE HEART OF THE BUSH.”
By BRODA REYNOLDS.
Illustrated by H. Carter. Price 1/-; postage 3d.
"The Heart of the Bush" shows conclusively that the people of the cities hold no monopoly of the human
passions, for the story teems with incidents in which love and jealousy and revenge, weave in and out of the web
of Destiny in such a way as to enthrall the reader from cover to cover. That this gifted author has an intimate know-
ledge of the affairs of the Bush as well as the affairs of the heart, must be apparent to the most casual observer, and
those of us who have either memories of Bushland or just "that touch of Nature that makes the whole world km"
will revel in the absorbing atmosphere that pervades these pages. The episodes that culminate in the duel in Dead
Man's Gully are depicted in language that leaves no doubt.
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
A New Racing Novel. By F. AGAR.
Illustrated by Percy Spence. Paper Cover 1/-; postage 3d.
" Eros," be it known, was the Greek god of love, and, as love generally wins, it was thought a good name
for a horse But even a good horse is not always allowed to win, and many of the doubtful methods of preventing
him are exposed in this book. Both the upper and under sides of "The Turf" are depicted here, the aristocratic,
straight-going owner, and the low-down swindler who lives on the game ; but the little Greek god has also an interest-
ing innings, as there is a fascinating society love story running side by side with the racing yarn, and the outcome ot
the plot and counter-plot is that again Eros wins.
To those who don’t know much about racing this book will be an eye-opener ; to those who do, it will be a treat.
BOOKS BY THAT PRINCE OF AUSTRALIAN WRITERS,
STEELE RUDD.
“Bookstall Series.” Price, 1/- each; post free, 1/3.
A laugh in every page.
BACK AT OUR
SELECTION
STEELE
RUDD
THE POOR PARSON.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
DAD IN POLITICS.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FOR LIFE.
ON OUR SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
sULJ
BY
STE
HUD
BUSHRANGING BOOKS.
John Vane, Bushranger.
By CHARLES WHITE.
Short-Lived Bushrangers.
By CHARLES WHITE.
Three Years with Thunderbolt.
By AMBROSE PRATT.
Übique, The Scientific Bushranger.
By CLARENCE MARTIN.
Lists sent post free to any address.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
And all Branches and Booksellers.
SARGENTS’
Wedding Cakes.
'C
V 7
%
i
3
fes
SARGENTS’ WEDDING
CAKES are distinctly
superior in quality.
The ingredients used in their
making are the best ob=
tainable, and are scien-
tifically prepared and baked
by the most modern appli-
ances. Sargents’ Wedding
Cakes, besides being beauti-
fully designed and decorated,
have reached a point of
excellence In both flavor
and purity that is unsur-
passed. ij*
Prices, quite moderate, on
request.
fdgd sdf
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone —Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering, 4250).
(’Phono— City 1344).


QALPWELL’S
riigh Quality INKS.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Brickfield Hill, Sydney
YOU MAY HAVE TRIED
“This, that, or the other,” but for permanent
relief and pleasurable action you will never find
anything to equal Chamberlain’s Tablets for
indigestion, constipation and biliousness.*
“P.D.”
Corsets
Promote
Health.
Badly designed,
crudely con-
structed Corsets
may be “advance
; gents for the
surgeon’s knife,”
but that is no
reason why all
Corsets should
be condemned as
unhealthy. Pro-
perly designed,
on scientific,
hygienic, ana-
tomical lines, as
are the famous
French
Royal
' • •••
t m
i
H I
rd
P. D.
Rustless Corsets
they tend to promote health rather than
Injure it. They do this by imparting a
comet figure, allowin ' to every organ
it, proper freedom, which is impossible
when your skirts have not a firm support
from which to depend. The graceful
carriage resulting from the wearing of
“P.D.” Corsets is as beneficial to health
as it is desirable from the artistic stand-
point. Ask your Draper to show you the
New Season’s Models—and refuse any
substitutes.
TRADE
£T
MARK.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 16, 1911.
! My Dear Yarkie,—
Victoria’s State-Agent Taverner has been talk-
ing of trying to get a stand erected at Coronation
time for '‘Australians Only ” ; but if the crowd
that is pouring Londonwards ostensibly for that
event is to fit on the stand, the premises will have
to extend from Marble Arch to High Holborn.
The experienced gadder carefully keeps out of
the big town on an occasion like this ; for, being
merely one of millions, yon see but little, pay
treble for your living, feel much less important
than usual, and get horribly squashed all the
while. Probably the big majority of the crowd
will do what they did at the time of the King’s
funeral—stand up from the night before for a
peep that lasts about one minute ; for the London
crowd is a strange circumstance, and sufficient
newspaper puffing will work it into a state of
hysteria which makes a twelve-hours’stand quite
ordinary. And then it will think it has enjoyed
tself.
Another bazaar! The new Mayoress (Mrs. T.
J. Davey) called together the elect to consider
the organisation of a monster f£te in aid. of the
Alfred Hospital. Everybody said, “Very well.
What’ll we do?” The chief point decided was
that the suburban mayoresses be asked to take
charge of and round up their own districts. As
in the Women’s Hospital Bazaar, there will be a
mayoress heading every stall. Johanna has “an
’orrible suspicion” (like Ganymede Walls) that
there are heaps and heaps of left-over goods from
last year’s heavy crop of bazaars hidden
away in spare rooms and disused stables.
(Only the garage is in daily use nowadays.)
The things that “ took ” best at recent raids were
the racy games and the competitions called
Throw-a-stick-and-get-a-tin-of-jam-or-pincushion-
all-for-a-penny ! ”
On account of the disorderly weather, seaside
revels have not been very numerous this year ; so
the Sassiety darlings clamor for a new bazaar.
The incidental tableaux, private theatricals and
rehearsals—especially the rehearsals—appeal to
their unsatisfied appetite for frivol.
Melbourne is still talking of the mixed-bathing
tragedy that nearly happened at Portsea lately.
It seems that a conspicilously-ornarnental matron
and her cavalier had got out of their depth and
were struggling on the brink of a watery grave,
when a newly-married Leander—who is a jour-
nalist, by the way—swam out and rescued the
pair.
So vigorously is the “ Beanstalk ” flourishing at
Her Majesty’s that it is almost lifting the building
off its foundations. Just prior to the commence-
ment of last matinee, Exhibition-street was
sprinkled with howling children who, with
their gloomy escorts, had been turned away
by staring “House Full” placards. The
“Beanstalk” is a great children’s pantomime,
judging by the shrieks of approbation. But there
are plenty of grown-ups who are just as keen.
Saw Marshall-Hall cheerfully taking what was
alleged to be his twelfth dose the other afternoon.
Dudley has been dropping in quietly; but, of
course, he is always found out. He was obviously
uncomfortable when the orchestra Gor-saved him
at his fifth visit. • He had escaped the red carpet
and fuss ; but the conductor heard of his arrival
just as he reached his stall, and the trombone
hurriedly uprose and published the news. Cham-
pion, the enthusiastic worker for the Repertoire
Theatre, the other evening scored his sixth
attendance.
Devoted parents take their children along time
after time. One kindly dad had his small son in
the orchestra stalls the other evening. Small son
complained repeatedly of severe pains, and seemed
to lose interest in the show. His father tried to
soothe him ; but the boy subsided in a miserable
heap, and asked pathetically to he conveyed home.
Dad at last uprose and towed the youngster to the
cloak room ; then he wrapped him hastily in his
overcoat, deposited him in a quiet corner, and
fled back to his seat. He wasn’t going to miss the
fun if he could help it.
Pantzer, the chief acrobatic man in the “ Bean-
stalk” pantomime, is a good boxer. He claims to
have taught the Czar how to use his hands, and
wears a superb diamond ring which is generally
understood to be a mark of the Czar’s gratitude
for instruction received. It is hard to imagine
how anyone could teach that frail, bomb-haunted
monarch how to uppercut a Terrorist, or what use
the knowledge would be to him if he had it. Pos-
sibly, though, the tutor devoted all his time to
showing Nicholas how to duck and sidestep glove-
fuls of dummy explosives.
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, has annexed a new
manager—George Smith. He comes from Sydney,
and has been with the Firm for years. The
H.M. theatre folk are jubilant at secretary Ted
Tait’s recovery. He is now out of Surgeon
O’Hara’s private hospital, where he left his
troublesome appendix.
You measure smart weddings now by the taxis
in attendance, and 10 was the toll of a
Toorak happening of a recent day. The affair
was served up mostly in blue and white, and
all the guests were such intimate friends of the
principal two that they were included in
the pretty color scheme. Dr. Gardner, of a
Geelong family, and Engineer Wilson’s daughter
Nell were the contracting parties. The bride, who
is a Desdemona-like blonde, shone in her dazzling
white raiment, like a Christmas-card angel.
Sister Mrs. Wallach, who is also , a fair lady,
and one of Toorak’s prettiest matrons, was
arrayed in a symphony of blues. Sister Merrin,
another budding beauty, put up her hair for the
occasion and covered it with a Marie Antoinette
cap. The bridegroom has a practice at Ballarat,
which he is leaving in charge of a locum tenens
while he trips round the world with his wife.
They go first to Japan, and then to England, and
afterwards inspect various other countries of the
earth.
. For a country medico the doctor, has
wings; but they are not altogether surges®;
grown. Gardiner, sen., when he departed this
life, left a comfortable pile of money and vacated
a directorship in the big Ball and Welch drapery.
Miss Wilson trained for a Nightingale, and suc-
ceeded in winning the cpveted red cross. Her
first private case after leaving hospital work was
also one of Dr. Gardiner’s. The consequence was
orange-blossom.
A man who makes three meals a day on early
Australian history sends me this :
Como, in South Yarra, cut up tor Mr. Runemup, is re-
ferred to as the ancesiral home of the Armytages. It has
been so for a food while, since Fortune ceased to smile
on the founder, one Octavius Browne, a rich squatter.
The Svdneyite, Wentworth, was the inventor of legal
facilities for banking liens on squattages. Victoria
adopted them; and Browne was one of the banks’pets.
That was over half a century ago. He made Como the
grandest place round Melbourne, outshining Toorak
House, built by Jackson, the ironmonger, whofounded the
business of M’Ewan and Co., Elizabeth-street. And then he
burst. Como is another illustration of the impossibility
of establishing an ancestral home in Melbourne. The
second generation won’t have it. Other examples are
O’Shanassy’s Tara, in Hawthorn ; Sargood’s Rippon Lea,
at Elsternwick; McCoy’s Maritima, at Brighton; Mat
Mitchell’s fine place facing the eastward ocean in the
same suburb; Squatter McMillan’s sumptuous Landcox,
Brighton, inhabited for a while by Bent; Dr. Martin’sCha-
teauof Banyule, Heidelberg; Moore’s Charn wood, St. Kilda;
Bart. Clarke’s Cliveden, East Melbourne ; and Joe Clarke’s
mansion, at Toorak. At one of the above places the
owner was disgusted because, after wreathing every
luxury around his wife, she bolted with the stable groom.
At another the owner was broken-hearted because of his
eldest son’s suicide, and the inquest was held in the ball-
room 1 The great ones of the earth build solitary places
for themselves.
“Trumper! I told you so !” This is whatyou
get when you run against a cricketing enthusiast
nowadays—and there are still a few left, in spite
of the captures made by golf. Which reminds
me: During the visit of the last English team,
Englishman Braund, of the silvery, waving hair,
remarked to an Australian follower of the game:,
“You fellows don’t half appreciate Trumper.
In England the crowd rises to him. He is the
finest bat in the world ; I ought to know ; he
has hit me miles ! ” Also, I remember reading
somewhere that Mrs. Fry, wife of C. B. Fry, the
English cricketer, said : “Sargent should paint a
full-length portrait of Victor Trumper in white
flannels, pads and bat in hand, with the deep
green of the Lord’s Oval as background ; and the
picture should be hung in the British National
Gallery.”
G.-G. Dudley is an enthusiastic cricketer. He
is frequently discovered at the nets in the M.C.C.
ground defending the three upright bits of timber
from the hireling ground-bowlers. We scarcely
realise the importance of a ground-bowler here.
Of course, the local Church of England Grammar
School and the Scotch College have their ground-
bowlers, like the Fogland schools; but the
average Australian schoolboy has to pick up the
holy art of cricket without the professional’s aid.
The ground bowlers at the M.C.O. get a salary
and, in addition, half a sovereign an hour;from
practising amateurs, and sometimes something
extra for each wicket taken. It is said, though,
that with the G.-G. they rarely do get a wicket
down.
Dr. Burnett Ham, the vigorous chairman of the
Board of Public Health and a whale for sanitary
reform, has laid his plans for a whole year’s cam-
paign. The enemy-in-chief is the fly—just plain
house-fly. Though it is still but the early dawn
of the year, there is already prepared and
printed and ready for distribution throughout the
length and breadth of the land an elaborate poster
on “The Deadly Fly,” drawn by a black-and-
whiteist whom Ham harbors on the Health pre-
mises. Surrounding some pithy remarks from the
chairman’s pen, advising the public how to best
protect themselves and their tucker from the
depredations of the pest, is an illustrated shuddery
border showing the blastiferous insect on
his daily rounds doing a look in at the dead
dog and other unsavory items. Anon he is
depicted disporting himself in the milk jug,
sampling the baby’s feeding bottle, and cavorting
around the various dinner-table edibles. Alto-
gether it is a production calculated to have more
effect than a wowser’s sermon, and it won’t be
good to dwell upon it too soon after dinner.
The latest food fad is the Hot-or-eold-is-it?
The puzzle may be described for the information
of the Coroner as an ice pudding with hot sauce.
The difficulty of keeping the pudding part frozen
and the sauce part hot is said to be ruining the
tempers of cooks, maids-in-waiting and cafd
managers. The damage it is probably doing
elsewhere is too awful for anything but a Medical
Congress to think about. Sipping ice-water
alternately with hot cafe noir started the craze
some time ago. “ Must give them something
new,” say the fashionable caterers in extenuation.
So the destruction of digestions continues.
Justice Isaacs’s mother is a wonderful woman.
Though she is nearly 90, she has a fine way of
reciting lengthy passages for which the ordinary
Shakspearian student has to fly to the works.
Her memory is flawless, her voice rich and strong,
and her hearing and sight as good as a healthy
girl’s. Lately bachelor son Jack has been
having phonographic records taken of her recita-
tions. There is one of a strong passage of Byron,
and at the finish the sweet voice of the old lady
adds: “There’s not much of the atheist in that.”
Justice Isaacs rings up “home” every night,
even if he is in Sydney. He probably inherited
his fine declamatory style at the Bar from this
clever mother.
The future of poetess Jennings Carmichael’s
three little rescued boys seems promising. Geof,
the eldest, has been articled to Mr. Russell, who
has taken a great interest in the children all
along. The second boy, who has lovely eyes and
sings like a thrush, has been adopted by a stock
and station agent in New South Wales. And
Keith, the baby, is being mothered by a good-
hearted soul.
Nothing now remains of the late L. L. Smith’s
Collins-street mansion but the columns; the wreck
suggests pictures of Roman ruins. The downfall
of the old house has knocked a big, ugly hole into
Upper Collins-street; but, with the moon shining
and a sapphire sky behind the pillars, one pauses
in the midst of dentists’ brass plates and mutters,
“No, I believe it improves Collins-street to lose
one of its upper front teeth.”
Draper Treadway, deceased, possessed a third
daughter, in addition to the two mentioned last
week. She married Charles B. Kelly, a baritone,
well known on the Block. He was something in
Collins-street until he married into the softgoods
family and followed papa into the business.
A Melbourne man sent a copy of Hugh McCrae’s
“Satyrs and Sunlight” to a friend in California.
The acknowledgment says: “It’s a joy for ever.
Never heard of McCrae before. Let us have
some more of his verse if he is still versing. Nor-
man Lindsay has done some wonderful work in
it. He seems to have caught the spirit of those
golden days—the abandon of creatures with red
blood and the youth of the world in their veins.”
In the same letter the Californian enthuses over
the opening of the new club house of the Bohemian
Club of San Francisco. This club is unique. One
of its annual forest plays was described and
illustrated in The Lone Hand some time
ago. The members have been living in tempo-
rary quarters since the earthquake. They
took possession of the new building with much
joyous ceremony. A “ pot-luck ” dinner was laid
in the old club house for over 700 members, who
afterwards walked by torchlight to the new
premises. One of the features of the new Club
is a theatre, in which a play on Grecian
lines embodying Bohemia was performed.
Valuable statuary and paintings saved from the
fire which followed the earthquake decorate the
premises of the Club, which started in 1872 with
a handful of writers and is to-day one of the finest
in the U.S. The Club mottj- is “ Weaving
spiders come not here.” The owl is its emblem,
and its own particular toast is, “May the Lord
love us and not call for us too soon.”
San Francisco continues to build at top speed.
In 1915 the Californians are to hold an exhibition
to celebrate the opening of the Panama Canal,
which historic event may mean almost as much to
Australia as to the Pacific Slope.
Women in London are finding the cigarette-
habit injurious. Nevertheless they are not swear-
ing off. A big tobacconist in Fogtown lately
showed some long slender-stemmed pipes with
small exquisitely-carved bowls, and marked them
“For Ladies.” A few women have started'the
craze, and smoke cigarette tobacco in the tiny
bowls. Perhaps the fancy toy-pipe will later on
be relinquished for the good substantial calabash
of the smoking man. About that time, I guess, the
scandalmongering char-lady will be luxuriously
puffing a short clay, and the private life of the
lady over the way will go up in smoke.
A girl lodges her protest against a fashionable
fallacy :
Women writers all over the world are howling about
the dislike to home-life that they say is growing and grow-
ing. Haven’t noticed it in our suburb. The men and
women about are painfully domesticated. Every one has
a garden, and fowls, and children ; and, if you are a lone
woman and possess none of those things, you are out of
it. Every wife has her “ day at home,” and all the other
neighbors rush to call on her—even if they have fallen
over each other at the butcher’s in the morning. They
give each other washing recipes and crochet patterns in
shrill soprano voices—and call it conversation. The men
folk of these excellent housewives wear a tamed look ;
one is not supposed to address light conversation to
them. Their job is to mend the fowlhouse and bring the
children home from tea parties occasionally. They have
no time to read, no inclination to think, and conversation
is with them a lost art. One neighbor woman attracted
me lately. I asked in a hushed voice what her “day”
was. “ Haven’t got one,” she laughed ; “ come to break-
fast any morning.” But she is new to the Street. Other-
wise there is no decline of the domestic virtues our way.
I met such a beautiful hero in a novel I found
in a bathing-box the other blissful day. The
heroine has been lured to the same old inn. After
supper, it strikes the lady that; there is not as
much population about as there might be. She
asks that the innkeeper may be called to remove
the dishes ; incidentally, she has also made up her
mind to ask his protection. “ ‘I sent him away
two hours ago,’ said the hero, arising as if to
come to her. She shrank back, but he only
leaned across, gathered up the four corners
of the tablecloth, and, twisting them to-
gether, carried the whole thing out, the
dishes crashing and jangling as he threw’
them into the kitchen.” Later on the lady-captive
tried to ring up help. “ Helen had stepped to_the
telephone and taken down the receiver. He
leaped, snatched it from her, and then, tearing the
instrument loose from the wall, raised it above his
head, dashed it upon the floor and sprang towards
her. ” . . If Helen had tried to send a telegram, her
strenuous admirer would doubtless have torn up
the telegraph poles with one hand and wrecked the
post office with the other. I’m sure that’s the
overcomer of obstacles that Mawson ought to
take with him when he goes to find the South
Pole, and I introduce the interesting couple
accordingly.
A sweet small matron of Melbourne returned
recently from foreign parts. When she left, her
hair was a soft brown ; it now suggests Mount
Morgan. “Isn’t it a nuisance?” she remarks
plaintively. “I went in for a shampoo in Paris,
and when I got up out of the chair my hair was
this color. I was so annoyed j ”
Two Coronation jaunters who left by last week’s
mail boat were Cyril Winter Irving—beauteous
youth ! —and George Armstrong de Melba. Mrs.
Henry Cornish goes with the Hammond Cleggs—
mornmer and her two pretty girls.
Nenufar, according to the published lists, is the
baptismal name of a girleen who has passed the
examination of the Royal Viotorian Trained
Nurses’ Association. As a front name for a lady,
Nenufar (which is more or less Anglicised French
for a water-lily) is something precious. Yet it is
easy to imagine that the day is not far dis-
tant when the interesting Nenufar will be just
plain, unpainted Lily to some really desirable
convalescent.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
Rumor is threatening to hand over our pretty old
Residence to the University, and transplant the vice-
royalties outside the City of Culture. The authorities
are “considering” Barr Smith’s place, out between
Hawthorn and Mitcham ; and if the purchase is made
Adelaide will have to meander four or five
miles when it wants to call upop the visitors’
book. The present residence is a peach in the
matter of position, half a minute or so from every-
where in the city, and with a view worth having. But
North Terrace is becoming crowded, and the University
is getting too big for its clothes. It was at first pro-
posed to uproot it, and plant it in some suburb ; but it is
found cheaper and easier to move something else.
The vice-regal motor has been towing an enthusiastic
cargo to the Test match with great regularity this week.
One day the Excellent Admiral had luncheon with the
other champions, but mostly he wandered in and out in
a friendly, informal way and kept a private eye on the
game.
Mr. Henry Dutton, having finished entertaining an
earl or two on the ancestral acres at Anlaby, has un-
moored his steam yacht Adfele and gone a-cruising. He
is hunting whales in St. Vincent’s Gulf. The Adfele is a
gorgeous little craft—not so little, either, having braved
the voyage from Britain to Australia without a leading
string. Yet it lives most of its life leaning up against
Port Adelaide, and rarely wanders beyond the tame Gulf
waters.
Dr. and Mrs. Wells, her twin sister, his pretty sister
and a girl chum, left for the Jap trip on Friday. They
went laden with messages for the S. J. Mitchells, who
are still guiding the Territory which no longer weighs on
S. Australia’s conscience. The Mitchells’ fair-haired
youngster, Jean, by the way, has gone to Port Darwin to
join her people, after being schooled in Sydney for a year.
Monotony, large and unsmashed, dwells with us, and
we haven’t even a scandal we can call our own. Half our
earth is reddening its nose at Port Victor and Kangaroo
Island ; the other half is buying things it doesn’t want at
the bargain sales. However, two engagements are an-
nounced to cheer us up. One concerns that pretty,
fluffy, Genelg girl, Dolly’ Tolley, and Ewart Stow, a son
of one of S.A.’s pioneer folk. The other conspirators are
Miss Britten Burden and Mr. Wilkie. Latter belonged
originally to Melbourne, but Adelaide captured him and
has him tied securely to its chariot wheels.
The good Chamber of Manufactures, hitherto housed
and offieed in the Exhibition Building, has taken a dwell-
ing of its own in Pirie-street, and will open the new
premises with an evening party on January 27.
Some poor conscience-pricked mortal has sent our Col-
lector of Customs a little present of one florin all the way
from the British Speck, because, 24 years agone, he (she
or it) smuggled a shawl into South Australia.
On Saturday the Adelaide Rowing Club had its annual
splash at the Glenelg Baths, and asked the nicely gowned
and hatted to come and see it swim. A stiff breeze of polar
character was also present, but there were no vacant
allotments where the fully-clothed wheat sat to regard
the swimming tares and races. Afternoon tea, and the
farcical behavior of people who obli<rinj;ly fell into the
sea at intervals, occupied rhe afternoon.
There are now 265 medicoes busy on the (treat germ
(and guinea) quest in South Australia, and 10 of them
wear petticoats and other frills. Adelaide’s first woman
doctor, Violet Plummer, has a large and able-bodied city
practice, which she will shortly drop for six months,
while she and a sister go to Europe.
Our syndicated maiden, Clara Kleinschmidt, Limited
has been taking the contralto part in Sullivan’s “ Martyr
of Antioch,” at Reading, Britain, and there wasn’t a nice,
unused adjective in the dictionary when the critics had
done with her. According to one of them, she scored a
striking, popular and artistic success. Another talked of
her fine contralto voice with its wide range and resonance.
Bv the way,’tis said that the Adelaide’cellist, Elford"
Mack, will shortly join the fame-and-shekel hunt in the
Large Smoke.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
The butcher’s bill for the Richmond (Vic.)
railway horror has crept up to £125,000, or £5OO
more than the cost of Sunshine. The responsible
officers of the Department expect it will climb to
at least £130,000. That record will probably
stand till some future importing Government
engages a person who has stage-managed Arme-
nian atrocities to run the lines economically.
“ The Federal Land Tax Review,” a book-
let of instructions for those fortunate people who
come within the radius of the Commonwealth
Act, has been published by Frank Hayes and
Co., of the Old Exchange, Melbourne. For the
poor farmers and other real estate owners who
are alleged by the Tory press to be incapable of
estimating their improved and unimproved values,
this shilling booklet should prove a simple bles-
sing. It teaches them how to calculate their
returns for the taxpaper without perishing in the
attempt.*
The howling easterly gale that leaped at
the thickly-populated coast of Australia last
week made things uncomfortable even for the in-
land, brick-villa people. But the person who got
the full benefit of the blast was the notoriously
luxurious South Coast (N.S.W.) coal-miner, whose
dwelling clings to the ocean cliffs. Before the
storm, the comfort in which he dwelt was known
only to his devoted but misunderstood friend
the Coal Vend and a few others; after the
storm the news leaked or spouted out that
avalanches of mud and uprooted trees had
fled through two palaces. The representa-
tive of a Sydney Sunday paper hurriedly
put on his oilskins and went out to investigate.
He found that -the worst had happened ; one
place was half washed away and the other was a
total ruin. The total ruin had been constructed
throughout of worn-out coke sacks. Now, what
would a member of the Vend do if a dead tree
weighing 30 tons and five lighters full of sodden
earth and rocks tore away half his coke-sack villa ?
He would say that Socialism was rampant in the
country and that there would certainly be blood-
shed within five years.
Gold may be going down in value, but
bones are on the rise. So, therefore, is bonedust;
also dissolved bones and bone-and-superphosphate
mixtures. Australia, as was mentioned some time
ago in The Bulletin, imports a lot of its manure-
bones from India. The supply there is. however,
failing, and all over the world the bone supply is l
not wbat the manure-maker would like it to be.
In consequence, bones is riz, and all the assorted
bone manures as well. These are simple facts;
yet the anti-Labor farmer, fresh from the manure
shed, plunges his furious pen into boiling ink, and
writes as follows to the press :
I have to pay dearer for practically everything-1 require
on my farm, including manures, which have just been
advanced about 10 per cent., in order to subscribe to the
policy of artificially forcing wages up by means of Wages
Boards.
Yet the Australian manufacturer is in a position
to inform the complaining producer, if he wants
to know, that superphosphates are the same price
this year as last —the local breed of super., that
is. Wages are up a bit, of course ; but wages
haven’t affected the price of his smelly goods to
the whining farmer. And even if they had
affected the price the farmer ought to be the last
man to growl about it, in view of the extra price
he has lately been getting for the wheat that the
laborer chews.


Your Government
says it’s pure.
ABOVE everything else the
label on the JOSHUA
bottle is a Government
guarantee that the whisky
is pure and that you run no
risk in drinking it. While
the seal is on the bottle, the
collar round the neck, the
cork (with Joshua’s brand)
inside and the capsule over
that, you are absolutely safe.
The Government protects you.
Joshua’s
Government guaranteed
WhisKy.
A
m
m
7 l /nsgt. OTm c»% c r
*
<
r\\A
07 g
AUSTRALIAN STANDARD]®
MALT
&stos
jjodum^
rrs
fICLOOUON
qai l
✓ .
.A
HZ
ttVEWOT
0 i\Wa
COUNTRY RESIDENTS!
WHY NOT
Have the Great Don Summer vSale brought to your doors ?
Tf Why not have The Don empty some of its vast stores of Household Treasures
on your doorsteps ?
If Just fancy! THE DON COSTUMES of first-class, wear-well, washable
material sent anywhere for 10/6 ! And made to measure at that.
But best to send for THE DON SALE CATALOGUE.
1 The D on, mind you, gives most of its time and attention to supplying Country
Residents with its highly desirable goods at desirably low prices.
The Sale commences next Thursday, January 26,
If and during its currency vast stocks of everything that everybody wants vanish
like a field of grain before the harvester.
Write for THE DON STORE SALE CATALOGUE—a complete and
fully illustrated epitome of Bargains in everything appertaining to Mens,
Women’s and Children’s Wear. Write right now. H ave a Sale Cata-
logue. Select your orders. Well do the rest.
THE DON STORE,
GLENFERRIE,
MELBOURNE.


fg
CHERRY BLOSSOM is the
Boot Polish for the British
Empire. It will polish your
boots and shoes quickly and well,
preserving the leather, softening
it, and doubling the life of your
footwear. Get a tin of Cherry
Blossom Boot Polish to-day.
It is supplied in tins at 3d. and
6d. each —Black or Tan —the
largest tins on the market at the
price. If your dealer cannot
supply you, do not accept a substitute, but write direct
to us, and we will see that you are supplied immediately.
Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THE CAUSE OF CONSTIPATION.
The most common cause of constipation is a lack
of exercise necessary to keep the muscles of the
bowels active. That is why constipation is often
brought on by too frequent use of purgatives.
They act violently, performing the work of the
bowels for them, and so weaken them that they
will not act without assistance. Chamberlain’s
Tablets will cure constipation because, instead of
doing the work of the bowels, they gently
stimulate them to voluntary, action. Their fre-
quentuse will notinjure the most delicate person.*
Kidney Disease
And all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Fills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them
a trial. Price Is. Gd. and 2s. Gd.*
The picture cover of a book issued bv Messrs.
Thos, McPherson and Son should commend itself to all
lo.vers of Australian Art; while inside the book is to be
seen represented a multitude of tools and machinery
sufficient in number and variety to build half a dozen
Federal capitals, or stock a new continent with dwelling
houses, shops and factories. Those interested in
mechanics should write Messrs. Thos. McPherson and
Son, of Collins-street, Melbourne, and revel in the feast
of constructive, locomotive and transmissive possibilities
which their catalogue offers.*
In connection with the scarcity of timber at
present existing for general building purposes, wharf
construction, etc., it is announced that a Melbourne Syn-
dicate has secured in the Scottsdale district, North-
eastern Tasmania, an option over 21,000 acres of valuable
timber country. A company is to be formed with sufficient
capital to undertake operations on a large scale, includ-
ing the construction of 18 miles of railway to the port of
Bridport, on the north coast of Tasmania. All necessary
concessions for railway building and port accommodation
have been granted by the Tasmanian Government.*
I
II lONIC TO
CURE INDIGESTION
Treatment That has Given
' Good Results in Many
Cases*
Persons with weak stomachs who suffer from
indigestion need a tonic that lias no laxative
action. Purgatives may lielp to move a meal
along, but they weaken. What the stomach needs
is strength to digest ordinary food. Now Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are a tonic without any
laxative action whatever. Their mission is to
make, strength, and experience has shown that
they have cured many severe oases of indigestion.
The following typical case shows how good they
are.
“ Bit by bit I was attacked by indigestion,” said
Mrs. Jane Smith, 66 Regent Street, Richmond,
Melbourne. ‘‘First I noticed that my appetite
was falling off, and at last I could hardly look at
the meal table. Often I could not keep down
what I forced myself to take, and I would have
bilious retching and feel as sick as could be. As
sure as I took a bite of anything I would get a
lump in my chest, and I would feel sore and tender
inside right to my shoulder blades. My stomach
would swell out with wind so that I would be most
distressed. I always had a nasty taste in my
mouth, and such a thick coating on my tongue. I
had no energy left, and I would feel sleepy all
day ; yet at night the least noise would waken
me. Violent, sick headaches would set in. All
the top of my head would ache, and then the pain
would spread down to my eyes. I dare not stoop
at these times ; for everything would go black for
a space. For a couple of days, perhaps, these
headaches would come on, and many a day I could
not cook the dinner ; I would have to go and lie
down. My heart would beat violently and I
would feel quite faint; but I started Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills and they eased off all the symptoms.
Before I started them I used to be as sallow and
pasty as could be; but my color began to get
healthy as myjrppetite improved. Now I can eat
anything I fancy, and feel brisk and energetic,
thanks to this remedy.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by chemists
and storekeepers, or sent by mail, post paid on
receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d.,
by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia,
Ltd., Sydney.*
- :
DENYER BROS
THE LOSS b
OF A LIMB
need not mean the loss of
your activity. Large num-
bers of people to-day are
comfortably pursuing their
avocations by wearing skil-
fully-constructed Artificial
Limbs. We are Makers
and Importers of the most
perfect that up-to-date
skill can produce, i Deluding
those with Rubber Hands
and Feet, which have
proved such a boon.
Artificial Limbs, Trusses,
i & Deformity Appliances,
281 GEORGE ST. (Opp. Hunter St), SYDNEY ;
& Cor. Swanston & Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
M’Cutcheon, of Victoria, declared to a
recent meeting of Women Leaguers that if Aus-
tralia says “Yes” to the referenda on April
26 he will “no longer care to occupy a position in
the State Parliament.” From which it looks as
if an affirmative vote will improve the State
Parliaments as well as the National Parliament.
It is an interesting item of news that 39
miles of breakwater and training wall have been
built at the river mouths of N.S.W. The bill is
an unknown quantity, but it is very large. Yet
all this cash and struggle haven't produced one
single first-class harbor. There are several first-
class harbors, but they haven’t any breakwaters,
or any population worth mentioning, or anything
in particular except water and fish.
AT THE FEDERAL CAPITAL.
The Minister for Home Affairs (Mr. O’Malley) has been
engaged preparing a scheme for the establishment of the
Federal capital at Yass-Canberra. Among the works to
be undertaken at once will be the following : To reserve
a suitable location of the acquired lands for working men
and their families, the reserve to be provided with un-
limited water supply and perfect sanitary arrangements.
—News Item.
Housewife: “ How much water can you spare
me to-day ? ”
The Federal Waterman: “’ Smuch as yer like.
There’s an unlimited quantity in the Cotter.
In fact, 1 wouldn't be exaggerating if 1 said
there was enough to fill the hogshead.”
Maoriland’s new Municipal Corporations
Act extends the franchise to all adult residents of
cities and towns after the elections of April next.
This should give the Labor party a chance to do
some practical work.
This paper doesn’t expect much from the
Commission that is to inquire into the alleged
leakage of Customs in Tasmania; wherefore it
notes with all the more sorrow a considerable and
preventable leakage of language, ink, time, paper
and cash in connection with the announcement
that George the Fifth, by the Grace
of God, of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland, and
of the British Dominions beyond
the Seas, King, Defender of the
Faith, Emperor of India,
greets his trusty and well-
beloved Representatives,
of whom Jens August Jen-
sen is Chairman, etc.,
etc., etc., and desires
them to bog in. There
is a further leakage
in connection with
the information that
“ our Right Trusty
and Right Well-
beloved Wi 11 ia m
Humble” (here fol-
low half a yard of
titles) is an unneces- *
sary witness of the
above statement, t
Wouldn’t the Com-
mission be of effect
if the mere names
of the members were
mentioned, and they
were asked to get
busy ?
The selection of a
Labor Candidate for
the Batman seat in
the Representatives
was a strenuous busi-
ness ; for there were 30
candidates and some-
thing like 3000 P.L.C.
members entitled to vote.
The day is pretty well
gone when a dozen or so
pals could secure a man’s
nomination as the party’s
representative ; arid the, time
when some bumptious, talka-
tive nobody could bluff out a
trustworthy, well-informed per-
son possessed of valuable ideas
is also almost as dead. Of the 30
Batman candidates only half a dozen
had a hope from the start, and, in a
general way, the preferential system
of voting ensured the selection of the-
man with the best chance of winning the
seat —lawyer Frank Brennan. It isn’t an ideal
method of choosing a statesman or even a politi-
cian; but it is miles ahead of “Liberalism’s”
habit of selecting its men in a city cellar.
Having prepared the way by passing along
500 borrowed sovereigns to J. Bull’s Pretoria mine
disaster fund, Joseph of the Free Hand and the
Corpulent Wad of I O U’s, is off for his usual
jaunt to the Cold Country ; presum-
ably to see whether Cohen is good for
additions to the recently-borrowed
£5,000,000. As his absence will delay
the opening of the M.L. Parliament
until the end of July, and, as mem-
bers will want to get away by Octo-
ber to inform their constituents, be-
fore the general elections, why they
did not filch more gonce for the
renovation -of the village pump), and
as members always fritter away at
least two months in wrangling over
nothing, the next session will be a
barren farce. Meanwhile the worried
elector casts his eye over Massey and
his team of political wrecks, and
wonders why the Labor party does
not announce its birth. There was
talk of Tommy Taylor becoming the star
of the "Labor bunch, but lou has ham-
strung the one-time virulent Christchurch member
with a prospective portfolio.
A Sydney paper reports that a woman,
stopped from going to a picture show by the gas
strike, declared she would never vote for the
Labor party again. Apparently the dear lady
wants to be broken of the habit of going to picture
shows, and will therefore support the party that
takes four months to settle a strike, instead of a
mere 24 hours. Anyway, that was the Wade
Government’s record in connection with the coal
trouble.
The “right-thinking” public is fond of
howling about “paid agitators,” and declaring
that there wouldn’t beany strikes if it wasn’t for
the Peter Bowlings and other “ hired mischief-
makers.” The Sydney gas trouble the other day
and night will probably suggest to these people
that there is another side to the business; for
there wouldn’t have been any strike in this case if
there had been a paid agitator. In fact, some
Fat gentlemen forgot all about their hostility to
“hired mischief-makers,” and declared that it was
time these unions paid their own secretaries, in-
stead of practically forcing the employers to em-
ploy them whether they were worth employing
or not.
The out-of-date methods of the States’
lighthouse service and the enlightened arguments
of the wowsers received a joint advt. last week
when the valuable steamer Everton Grange went
ashore through the officer of the watch mis-
taking the light on the pub at Kingscote (S. A.)
for the lighthouse on Cape Jervis. Apparently if
the pub had not been in existence, and if theS.A.
Government had made provision for a moving
light, in keeping with modern requirements, the
big steamer would not have wandered off her
track and stubbed her toe on a rock. The
Australian coast is dotted with stationary lights
that should be flashing ; but as the Commonwealth
Government has not yet taken the service over
from States whose idea of coastal illumination is
on a par with Mr. Public House’s idea of brighten-
ing the entrance to his beer department, improve-
ment seems a long way off. In fact, it is so far
off that, after 11 years, it hasn’t even mentioned
its whereabouts. And all the time the State
Frighter keeps yelling “Federal encroachment”
if the Commonwealth dares to take a step for-
ward.
RETURNING TO THE SUNLIGHT.
Some more of Bull’s much-travelled break-
fast loaf was claimed by D. Jones last week, when
the ship Ardencraig, with 38,000 bags of Aus-
tralian wheat under hatches, hit the Scilly Isles
in a fog. After giving the crew just sufficient
time to get into the boats, the weatherbeaten
craft rolled over and foundered within sight of a
large, hungry crowd. Even when there isn’t a
whiff of gun-smoke about the seas, Mrs. Bull-
Britannia’s husband has an anxious time looking
out for the bread on the waters. And when it
isn’t lost at the doorstep, as in this instance, it
generally loiters on the way till the wall-calendar
that was fresh and plump in January is half-way
to the wastepaper basket. Last year one wind-
jammer took just on six months to reach the
country that has given up feeding itself; and
somebody has to pay for the interest that was
consumed by the capital represented in that ship-
ment. Also somebody has to pay for the ship-
ments that are lost. If Mr. and Mrs. Bull don’t
have it added to their baker’s bill, Mr. and Mrs.
Australia have it knocked off their wheat cheque.
WE DON’T WANT TO SUITE, BUT BY
JINGO IF WE DO
The next time Great Britain is bailed up by
two alleged Anarchists it is suggested that John
Bull should merely wind up Mr. Kipling, and
let an Australian contingent do the rest.
A young Yankee house decorator has in-
vented a machine for papering a wall quickly and
with a minimum of mess. The machine consists
of a small carrier for the roll of paper, which un-
winds and feeds across a paste container, while a
set of knives trim it accurately. The invention is
mentioned here so that it may come under the
notice of various State Premiers, who are mani-
festly bent on papering a whole continent. The
Bulletin is sure the thing will appeal to John
Murray, anyway.
“Where Does Old Age Lurk?” asks a
Sydney evening-paper headline. Easy! In pub-
lic gardens in summer, in public libraries in
winter, and in the Liberal and Reform cellar all
the year round.
Federal Attorney-General Hughes has de-
clared with emphasis against elective Ministries.
The old Party Government dodge is good enough
for him. It is all very like Attorney-General
Hughes. Within the four corners of the Labor
programme he is an advanced Democrat; that is
to say, so far as he has to be an advanced Demo-
crat in order to avoid losing his job he is an
advanced Democrat. And where his party and
his job are not concerned there is no more notable
Conservative than Attorney-General Hughes.
One can get a good deal of amusement out
of the Tory press these days. Nothing pleases
Fat so much as the mention of riches, prosperity
and increase. He has a human desire to be told
that the country which he honors by investing his
capital in is wealthy and prosperous. Yet as a
Tory and anti-Labor, he expects his press to
make out a good case for desolation and ruin,
fleeing capital and blasted homes ; so the poor
press has to turn Catherine wheels in the endeavor
to pat the stomach of Fat and smack the hinder
part of Labor at the same time.
Failing to get the municipal councils of
Melbourne to even consider the proposals for
improving and beautifying the Yarra so as to turn
its approaches into a national park and its upper
reaches into a sizable lake, Premier Weary has
decided to pass the scheme on to the Board of
Works. Between the councils and the Board at
one end and the Commonwealth Government at
the other, there presently won’t be a day’s work
per annum left for poor, tired Weary, and then
he’ll be able to have a real restful time.
In noting the fact that Labor is already
selecting its candidates for the next Victorian
State elections, the Argus declared, the other
day, that “there is no concealment about the
Labor Party’s methods—no working in the dark.”
Now, what was that remark which the Argus
made on at least two (or was it two thousand ?)
occasions prior to the 13th of April last, concern-
ing Labor’s pernicious “secret caucus”? What
was it the Argus said about “ closed doors” and
“ star-chamber procedure ” ? Has Labor changed
its dark spots ? Or is it simply that the Argus has
taken to telling the truth ?
“Red Tape, Jun.,” on two of his shop-
mates :
I know two chaps in the Chief Secretary’s building, or,
rather, I don’t know both of them. One has five kids
and four quids a week. Last year he was cut open for
appendicitis, and got a month’s sick-leave to get well.
He didn’t get too well, and this year he applied for his
annual leave, due under the Service’s printed regulations,
in order to fix himself up with a change of air. Thirteen
months had elapsed since he got his ’dix extracted. But
his leave was refused on the ground that, having had one
month’s sick-leave, his next ensuing recreation leave was
forfeited. This after a very long term of service. The
other chap gets £lOO a week, and has had about 13
months’ service in his present billet. He gets six
months’ leave on full pay after six years’ total service,
and he isn’t to hurry hack if he’s enjoying himself. His
name is Chelmsford. I daren’t tell you the other’s name.
THE MAN WHO WAS CALLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With suspicious unanimity, and apparent sincerity, the
S. M. Herald, D.T. and other “ Liberal ” organs, are im-
ploring Premier McGowen to go to London “ to represent
ttie Mother State at the coronation ! ” — Strange fact.
McGowen is off to London Town —
“ The Empire calls ! ”
To see a King don a golden crown
, In tlie Abbey walls ;
They’ll take McGowen by the hand
An’ lead him up to a crimson stand,
An’ deafen him with a big brass band
“ The Empire calls !”
McGowen, perhaps, will be made a knight—
Hip ! Hip! Ilooray!
(When the bait is fresh the fish will bite,
So experts say.)
As just Plain Jim he is off to roam ;
But a lot may happen across the foam,
And Sir Jimmy may yet come marching home—
-Ilip ! Hip ! Ilooray !
McGowen has heaps of things to do—
But “ the Empire calls ! ”
! I There are works a-many and loans a few
At the Old Three Balls ;
And there’s Wood to sneer; and there’s Wade to
laugh,
And the vengeful Herald and Telegraph—
And a majority of, say, one-and-a-half.
But “ the Empire calls /”
N.S.W.
PETRONIUS EARBITER.
FOR STOUT PEOPLE TO READ.
A REMEDY NOW IN THEIR OWN HANDS.
In reproducing the recipe in full of an extraor-
dinarily successful remedy for over-stoutness it
was thought that many readers would like to make
up the prescription themselves. The ingredients
can be obtained at any chemists’s, and are as
follows : —One ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., one
half-ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract
of Glycvrrhiza 8.P., and Peppermint Water to
make six ounces in all. Shake the ingredients
together in a largish clean bottle. The dose is two
teaspoonfuls, to be taken after each meal. Obesity
has always been an obstinate complaint to deal
with, and it is pleasing to record that the above
remedy is becoming better known every day as
the most efficacious of treatments, which does not
involve any fasting or exercising or other weaken-
ing auxiliaries. The person so treated gets rapidly
stronger as fast as the superfluous fat is being ex-
pelled. In severe cases of corpulency the reduc-
tion amounts to many pounds a week.


FOUR FAMOUS PIANOS
BecHstein Pianos,
Lipp Pianos,
Ronisch Pianos,
Victor Pianos.
Search the World over
and you will not find
a better quartette of
Pianos, each a leader in
its grade.
* *
Every one of them is fully
guaranteed.
* *
Catalogues post free from
the Sole Agents—
W. H. PALING <& CO., LTD.,
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at . . .
Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba.
¥
2
S
~
IB
BROOKES
TBroofes Lemon Sy<M
neafhashady free:
[ And f/< fiery Wrrid
hath noftrefor me.
Brooke's demos"
wAereer Y rriay he
eoo/s He a Wafr
l from the Southern
V sea
-
FARMER'S HATS
CROWNED WITH QUALITY
BRIMFUL OF STYLE
FARMER’S Feature HATS.
We illustrate the three most favored Hg.t Styles in Sydney
to-day—each a renowned manufacturer’s masterpiece, full
of Character, Style and Quality !
First —The Alpine Felt
In nice new soft shades of grev, with self, navy or black bands. Farmer’s
well-known reliable qualities, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6.
Price, as Pictured, 12/6.
Second —The Panama
A superior make and the Coolest Hat for Summer Wear ; small, smart shape,
with narrow, brim, as pictured, or with wider brims'up to three inches.
18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/=, 35/= to 42/=
Price, as Pictured, 21/-
THird —The Lounge Felt
Bound or unbound brim, can be worn in a variety of shapes ; colors —green,
fawn, grey, beaver, brown, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6.
Price, as Pictured, 12/6.
STETSON HATS, 25/-, 27/6 and 36/-
| OUR MEN’S WEAR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE ON REQUEST. |
FARMERS COMPANY
SYDNEY.
Limited,


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., tos. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
1 London.
Always merry and bright, eh ! Yes, if in
the hot weather you drink “ Montserrat ” Lime
Juice. It cools and purifies the blood.*
Laxo-Tonic Pills,
The combined Laxative and Tonic Pills, leave no
unpleasant after effects. Sold at IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
RESCN’S SELECT
. . sJJii- \ ■>
& LASER
E. HESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General,
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESER\tMM£S.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLgAR^IE,
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The swimming world was considerably per-
turbed last Saturday, especially the Sydney portion of it.
The Swimming Association kicked itself hard for having
(ixed the price of admission at the humble bob, for long
before the carnival started the fact that close upon
to,ooo people were squeezed into the limited space avail-
able compelled the officials to close the gates on the
surging crowd. And, worst of all, and most horrible to
relate, the elite and the affluent stood outside
vainly offering half and whole sovereigns for stand-
ing room only. For was not the great question
of Beaurepaire versus Healy to be decided that afternoon ?
The balance of opinion favored Beaurepaire. They said
he would juggle Healy into bursting his boiler. There-
fore when word came that Beaurepaire had scratched for
the 100yds. the Healyites rejoiced loudly, saying, “ He’s
not too sure of himself, anyhow. Whoop!” Healy dis-
dained to haul out. Three ’Walers and one Queenslander
faced the starter in the 100 Yards Championship of the
continent, and Cecil Healy was looked upon as a cer-
tainty. They struck the water simultaneously; butL.
Solomons (N.S. W.) was the first to appear on the surface,
and he streaked off, closely followed by Healy. They
were all wearing colored caps, or hats, to make it easier
to distinguish them, and Healy’s was a carmine. The
infernal thing got down over his eyes, and then slipped
right down over his face; but Healy held on des-
perately. It was that hat that settled his hash, in this
writer’s opinion, and Solomons won by a touch in 58 l-ssec.
There is little doubt that but for the interference of the
cap Healy would have cut out the distance in 57sec., as
he has done before both in public and private.
That was a shock, for the great bulk of the
spectators did not see the cap trouble, and, the press
table being insanely placed near the starting end, the re-
porters who kept in their own places saw but little of the
actual struggle. The excitement was intense, and the
Beaurepairites, ignorant of the cause of Healy’s defeat,
rejoiced accordingly at the omen. The great bathing
structure fairly quivered with excitement when the com-
petitors came out for the 1320 Yards Australian Cham-
pionship. Three were from N.S.W., and one each from
Victoria and Queensland. Among them was W. Long-
worth, champion of the Eastern Suburbs, son of one
of the wealthy Cobar Longworths—a youth of appa-
rently exceptional strength, with a bull-like neck
and a jaw that spelt determination in capital letters.
But he was an outsider, and the cognoscenti laughed at
the suggestion that he would have to be reckoned with.
“ Wait till you see little nuggety Bogey shearing
through the water like a needle through silk, and you’ll
suddenly realise that a double-barrelled neck doesn’t
make a swimmer,” scoffed one. Healy and Beaurepaire
bad eyes only for one another. Longworth came up and
suddenly crawled away to the front. Nobody noticed
him, all eyes being glued on Healy and Beaurepaire.
Fdrl2 long, weary laps of the great baths they watched
one another, and 'then, with a sudden rush, Cecil Healy
overwhelmed the struggling Beaurepaire. Down in the
water they heard, when fully 20 yards from the finish, a
mighty cheering, and wondered dimly, as they tore
through the fluid, what it was for. Both were under the
impression that Longworth, who was ahead, was a lap or
two behind. That he had won the race and beaten both
of them, and smashed a world’s record in doing it,
never occurred to them. Healy climbed out of the bath
with the light of victory in his - eye, only to find that he
had been done brown, walloped by 20yds. by this swim-
ming kid —this new-comer of yesterday. And his reins
Were consumed within him. Beaurepaire’s heart was too
full for words, and he declined to talk. Longworth had
oovered the distance in I7min. 42sec. The world’s record
was smashed. No paltry fraction of a second chipped
off, but smashed. Daniels had 17min. 45 4-ssec. to his
credit. And this unknown Australian boy had ripped
3 4-ssec. off it. Beaurepaire’s Australian record stood at
ISmin. 4sec., and it had dropped out of sight in the glory
blaze of Longworth’s performance. Healy had covered
the distance in 17min. 4Ssec. on January 6, but the time
had not been passed by the Swimming Association ; and
even it was far behind the new man’s amazing perform-
ance. And such a doing, a fully 20 yards’ gap between
the winner and the great swimming gods ! No wonder
they could hardly believe it.
Apparently, Beaurepaire is not well. Cer-
tainly, he is not at his best. The Beaurepaire who flashed
through the English and Continental baths was not the
same Bogey who swam so indifferently on Monday night
in Sydney Domain bath in the 440 Yards Australian Cham-
pionship. Longworth went off at the same terrific bat
with which he distinguished himself on the Satur-
day, and the crowd howled his name ecstatically. It
was in the second lap that Beaurepaire suddenly
gave up, at a time when it was obvious that
he was not in it. Neither was Healy, and
the race had become a duel between the streaking Long-
worth and the fast-finishing Hardwick. With 12 yards
to go Hardwick seemed to suddenly dive and come up
level, and with a few strokes kicked himself right in
front and won by less than a yard. It was a tremendous
finish, but it was not a record-breaker. Hardwick’s time
was smin. 35sec.; the English time is smin. 26 2-ssec.; and
the world's best the smin. 19sec. of the dead but mighty
Kieran, made in Australia on January 4, 1905.
# * * *
“Sardonyx”: What a “boil-over” it would
have been if a .big horse-racing event had resulted
like the three-quarter-mile championship swim.
The two hot favorites clean out of it, and
an outsider an easy winner! Longworth, who
looks more like a weight-lifter than a water-cleaver,
created a bigger seaquake with his feet than any
other aquatician I’ve seen. But he went ahead like a
destroyer; and, though some people are saying that
Healy and Beaurepaire waited too long, the wonderful
time makes it evident that earlier sprinting wouldn’t
have helped them any.
* # * *
William Henry, of life-saving fame, carried
back to Britain a profound admiration and full details of
the Australian methods of “surf life-saving,” to coin an
expression. The surfers raised a fund, and presented
him with a reel life-line and belt to take back to the Old
World with him to enlighten the benighted t’othersiders.
Henry solemnly declared that he could not find words
with which to express his admiration for the system
which has been evolved.
* * * *
The yacht races for the Northeote Cup, which
were to have happened on Port Phillip Bay last Friday
and following days, came to an inglorious end before they
started, in a manner of speaking. W. M. Marks’s Cul-
wulla 11. had been brought over to wrest the utensil
from the defender, Killara; but when Friday came a gale
was sweeping the landscape, and from St. Kilda, where
the committee stayed, the bay looked as stormy as
the Horn in midwinter; so the first race was post-
poned. What it was like over at Williamstown,
where the affair was to start, could only be
guessed; but Mr. Marks reckoned the conditions
suited his vessel all to pieces : so when the decision was
announced he first entered a protest and then declined to
interest himself in the matter further, and took himself
and his ship back to the harbor. Whether the committee
was wrong in postponing is arguable ; but having entered
his protest, Marks is pretty generally blamed for with-
drawing altogether.
Whatever may be said against the R.Y.C.V.,
It must be admitted with admiration that the St. Kilda
Club fellows are sportsmen. They immediately suggested
that the Killara—which belongs to their club —should
lose the first heat by default, and stake her chance of
holding the Cup on the second and third races, and noti-
fied the R.Y.C.V. to that effect. But the R.Y.C.V. kept
a stiff upper lip, hardened its back, and steeled its heart.
If Mr. Marks liked to chuck Up the race—well, let
him. It was his own funeral. It had the right to
postpone the race, and it wasn’t going to be bluffed by
Mr. Marks or anybody else ! And there the matter ended,
and the races for the Northeote Cup fell through for one
year at least. Among Victorian sailing men quite a large
section is loud in its indignation against the R.Y.C.V.,
while another equally large section is prepared to shed its
last word in defence of the club’s action. All that can be
said just now is, that the ability of the R.Y.C.V to get
into the soup amounts to positive genius.
* * * *
Conditions were unpleasant for the four-oared
championship of Victoria on the Lower Yarra last Satur-
day. The wind was treacherous, and ruffled the water
until it was almost as billowy as the screen of hair you
sit behind at the theatre. Essendon led from the start,
and concluded an exceedingly sloppy event with Albert
Park a length and a half behind. Time, 15min. 7 3-ssec.
It was Essendon’s first win.
* * * »
A new thrill for aviators is suggested by the
case of John Moissant, who fell out of his aeroplane at
New Orleans, when it was turned over by the wind. The
machine appears to have been in perfect going order at
the time of the accident, so it is pretty certain that
Moissant had lost the power of driving it before it turned
turtle. Probably he was paralysed, insensible or dead of
heart failure.
* * * *
From B. C. Skidmore, of Caulfield (Vic.): The
cricket record (B. 5/1/11) goes out first ball. Thirty years
ago I captained Forest of Arden C.C. (Warwickshire)
when we disposed of Whitacre for 0. Details were pub-
lished in “ Lilywhite’s Annual.” This cake may be rather
stale, but will keep a bit longer with all those eggs in it.
Ben Wardill, of Melbourne Cricket Club, for
whom the big testimonial is being worked up, started his
connection with leather and leaden balls more than 50
year ago. Before he left England in 1861, he entered
a volunteer brigade, and also acted as secretary
of a cricket club in Lancashire. On his arrival in Mel-
bourne be joined the original Richmond battery of field
artillery; and when he took command of the Harbor
Trust battery he was gazetted as majah. Though he
has long been out of the military game, he continues to
look the part. Once a majah always a majah. Wardill
has bossed the M.C.C. for 32 years. Three years before
he became secretary he went to England and America
with a team of Victorian riflemen, so he may be said to
have shot himself into a position where his reputation as
a good old sport strengthened his popularity with the
boys. Cricketers are the most boyish of boys, and a club
secretary must be one of them.
* * * *
Seeing that the Australian Eleven wants a new
bowler (or two, or three) the selectors might give a
thought to young Bell, of the Prahran (Melb.) team who
took seven wickets for eight runs against Fitzroy the
other Saturday. He seems quite capable of taking any
wickets by surprise whilst the bloom is on his novelty.
Novelty in the attack is apt to be terribly fatal to bats-
men, and when they’re out they stay out till next innings.
* * . * *
It has happened at last —a Test match won by
Sundries. In the S’Africans’ first innings that old reli-
able player amassed 38, the very number by which the
Springbbks won the Test. But that was not all. In the
Africans’ second innings the same player totted up 12, or
a total of 50 in the one match. On the Australian side,
the sundries were five and six, a total of 11 in an aggre-
gate score of 804. Leaving Sundries out of it, Australia
made 793 runs against Africa’s 792, so but for the runs
given to the Africans, Australia would have led by one
run. Let the boiling oil be prepared immediately !
What showing Australia did make in the third
Test was, undoubtedly, due to Trumper. But for his 214
(n.o.)inthe firstinriings the Kangaroos’ exhibition would
have been poor indeed. The rest of the team got only
254 among them, with the result that Africa led by 17
runs. It also led by 21 runs in the second innings, so Aus-
tralia was beaten fairly and squarely in both innings.
The Australian bowling averages for the Test
were truly deplorable : Cotter, two for 164 ; Armstrong,
four for 193; Kelleway, three for 136; and Macartney,
one for 77. In fact, Wfiitty was the only bowler who
shone at all, and, with only eight for 218, verily he did
not coruscate either. Then add to these shocking figures
Cotter’s two wides and nine no-balls, Kelleway’s three
wides and 13 no-balls, and Macartney’s one no-ball, and
then blush your darnedest. We are put to shame.
Occasionally passengers work their passage, but
Macartney has been in the saloon right through the
African tour. His batting average is three—ls runs in
five innings. His bowling figures alsosuggestaluxurious
passage, as they work out to one wicket for 143 runs. It
is time he walked the plank.
* * * *
Of course, nobody would dream of accusing an
Australian XI of throwing away a Test match in the in-
terests of the Gate but what a fortunate thing for the
game generally, and this tour in particular, that,
by a lucky and happy coincidence, the Austra-
lians should lose the game the winning of which
w'ould have destroyed public interest in the rest
of the tour. There are vile, unbelieving hogs
who remark that the Lord helps those who help
themselves ; but in this case the Lord, or Fate, or what-
ever mysterious Power it is that decides cricket matches
—especially Test or international matches —w-as on the
side of the “sports,” and safeguarded the gate. By
taking no risks, combined with strict attention to
business, Africa piled up 482 in the first in-
nings (Zulch 105 and Snook 103). Australia re-
sponded with 465, and Africa started the second
stage with a credit balance of 17. Faulkner got
loose and bashed up 115, and the side ended with 360.
The Australians thus required 378 to win. But they suc-
ceeded in making only 339, so South Africa won by 38
runs. The aggregate score, 1646, is said to be a record,
but it isn’t, as 1941 were made in the N.S.W.-Victoria
match at Sydney, January, 1909. Probably the Test
was genuine enough. Anyhow, if it was a schlenter it
was a well-managed one. First of all, the game was spun
out for six days, and to end it up with 842 to 804 shows
excellent stage management.
* * * *
Bell and Beath are two youngsters of 20, both
playing for P’ran (Vic.). Previous to the round that
finished last Saturday, Bell had taken seven wickets
—two for four runs against Melbourne, and two
for 14 and three for six against Carlton. For
some reason P’ran’s skipper usually turns on his
regular but none too successful trundlers. As they
didn’t come off against ’Roy on Saturday week, Beil
was tried at one end and Beath at the other, and in half
an hour the pair had polished ’Roy off—Bell, seven for
eight runs ; Beath, three for 22. It was a batsman’s
wicket too. P’ran went in and smacked up 233 for five
wickets, and “declared.” Even at ’Roy’s second attempt
P’ran’s captain didn’t put the youngsters on at first; but
Bell ultimately annexed three for 18. He howls a fastish
ball with a varying pace and a deceptive delivery.
Last Saturday Melbourne Pennant cricket pro-
ceeded to the music of falling bails. The bowling ranged
from cruel to deadly. Carlton, for instance, walloped
St. Kilda by an innings and 176, McLean, Bowes and
Warne getting respectively 5 for 28, 6 for 33 and 6 for 9.
Bell, of P’ran, collared three more sticks for 18 runs,
and assisted his side to defeat Fitzroy with an
innings and 89 to spare. Other trundlers whose
attacks were particularly violent were Pitcher, 7 for 63,
for ’Wood against South ; Hart, 6 for 66, for North against
Richmond ; and N. Brown and Plant, 9 for 49 and 8 for
60 respectively, for Northeote against Essendon. Very
few of the batsmen were difficult to shift, the most asser-
tive being Smith of South, who first carried his bat for
52 and later contributed another 50.
* * * *
“Hermes”: Last week I took a motor trip
through the Blue Mountains when they were thoroughly
soaked, and .precipices were changing their shapes, and
the everlasting hills were crumbling to dust faster than
usual. Rain may bb» nuisance in the city, and may even
have its disadvantages in the country, but as a beautifier
of our mountains, it is peerless. Last time I frivolled, about
eight months ago, I found myself running in the track of
a bush fire, and what had once been bush was a wilderness
of naked black poles. But this time those blackened
poles were festooned with wreaths of tender green
shoots, and the little plain between the rolling hills
looked like a tremendous theatrical scene. And such a
green—the tender, delicate, yellowish green that one
sees in the western sky when the first star bursts through
and swims lazily in the failing twilight. But the Sight of
All Sights was the Capertete Valley, where the Mudgee-
road makes its first plunge out of the mountains. The
wandering Englishman in the car held his breath. Then
he threw away his cigar, and passed his hands through
his hair: “There is nothing else in the world like
it. I have been round the globe twice, seen all
the places they rave about, but never anything like
this! ” It was Elysian. For the first time I saw
blue clouds. They were piled up in great rugged
arches, and through the vast rifts poured streams of
pale-blue light on to heights and mountains of ultra-
marine. The bush that draped the feet of these splendid
heights ranged from deepest purple to violet and ame-
thyst, according to how those wondrous shafts of blue
light fell. In the car there were four cameras, and not
an unused plate in one of them ; all had been spent on
the lesser splendors, and when Elysium, Paradise, Val-
halla was unveiled before us, we could not take even one
picture of it. We’d have sold our souls for one color-
plate. But no bargain-hunting fiend appeared. It made
me think we must be lost, anyhow. That night, when we
drove back, the blue clouds had gone. The arches had
vanished, and where they had reared their splendid
pillars was only a thin, gossamer like veil of finest spun
mist that drifted and swayed in the noiseless breeze.
And as it swayed and lifted and opened it gave momen-
tary glimpses of a vast mass of cloud, burnt with dull
carmine, that glowed through and gave the impression
that the western world was on fire and smouldering
redly to its doom. Any motorist who can get away
should hie him to the mountains and gaze upon these
things while they may be seen. It may be years before
they are staged so splendidly again.
* * * *
The motor racing cyclist is an uneasy animal
who is always surpassing himself. J. De Rosier, the
Yankee crack, recently perpetrated a well-planned and
executed assault on all existing records on the new fancy
track they have at Los Angeles, California (U.S.A.). It
was a movement that swept up everything, from one
mile to 100, inclusive. This is how it worked out: —
1 Mile Flying Start .. 41 l-ssec.
5 „ ~ ~ .. 3min. 37 4-ssec.
10 ~ ~ ~ .. 7min. 20 3-ssec.
25 ~ ~ ~ .. 18min. 36 2-ssec.
50 ~ ~ „ .. 37min. 16 l-ssee.
100 ~ ~ ~ .. 75min. 24 2-ssec.
De Rosier, who did 79g miles in the level hour, put up
these times on a 7-h.p. twin-cylinder Indian, running on
a circular wooden track —the Motordome, one mile per
lap. All the times were officially clocked, checked and
Verified. Still, it is worth remembering that this is
a Yankee “ sports” item.
* * * *
The big motor-car races have died out one by
one ; but word comes that the Grand Prix, the one-time
premier motoring race of France, and also of Europe, is
to be re vived this year. The distance, is to be 360 miles,
over the ancient Sr.rthe Circuit, and the race will
be run off in May or June. Cars will be divided into two
classes, those with four cylinders and those with more.
The tendency of the motor-bike is to grow
lighter, and now in the fulness of time, at the English
Olympia Show, one has been shown which, all complete-
powerful little two-stroke engine, magneto, everything—
weighs only 551 b. When ready for the road the makers
guarantee that it will not be more than 601 b. Presum-
ably the idea is that in case of breakdown the rider will
be able to paddle it home with the hoof. But hasn’t the
day for that sort of thing gone by? Nobody
ever has trouble with the engine these times.
All that a man on a modern machine has to
guard against is a general smash-up in a dust-
filled hole or a V-shaped watercourse across the
track, or a puncture at the point of a rusty nail or broken
bottle. Seems to writer what we require in a motor-bike
nowadays is strength to withstand the shock of the rough
country road, and a spring arrangement that will reduce
the bumping to the irreducible minimum. And that
means a certain amount of weight as distinct from a cer-
tain amount of lightness.
When he first got back from his round-the-
continent jaunt, Birtles was loud in his assurances lhat
he would not cross Australia again, nor venture into the
wilds thereof, unless on an aeroplane. But, like the
cricketer who has retired, the actress who has left the
boards, and the pug who has chucked the ring, Birtles is
nibbling at the forsworn cake. If certain negotia-
tions, which are now being conducted with great deli-
cacjr, come to anything, Birtles will once more adventure
forth, this time at the head of a Gaumont(of Paris) expedi-
tion to Centralia and the Far North to cinematograph
unknown Australia. The local agents for Gaumont and
Co., of Paris, are Australian Kodak, Ltd., with whom
Birtles has already been associated. On his last trip he
took one of their Kodak cameras with him, and many of
the pictures he brought back will figure in the forthcom-
ing exhibition of the firm. If Birtles does lead this ex-
pedition, it will start from Northern Queensland and
work in a country which, so far, has been innocent of tfie
sight of a biograph.
* * # #
A. J. Clark and E. A. Pye, both cyclists wlio
originally hailed from the south-eastern corner of Aus-
tralia, recently beat all comers in a big six-days’ team
race. They covered 1251 miles, and broke the hearts and
burst the boilers of every Yankee who stood against
them, averaging slightly over 17 miles an hour for all
that dreary time. It w»as a great feat, but was it worth
the strain?
* * * *
In rough round numbers there are about 8000
motor-cars in Australia; and, averaging them at £4OO
apiece when purchased (which is not by anj’ means an
extravagant estimate), they represent £3,200,000. And,
except for a small amount spent on bodies, every bean of
it has gone out of the country, because the fat-headed
idea is that Australia could not keep one decent motor-
factory going. Australia at present is spending,
roughly, £30,000 per week on cars, and if that
trade isn’t worth having, then we are bloated
millionaires beyond work indeed. There was a time
when, owing to lack of standardisation, the starting of a
new industry was seriously handicapped. But that day
is past. If the Australian Government would only look
into the matter it would discover that this is an industry
worth having. For, when war strikes Australia, the
armed and armored motor-car is going to play the devil.
And the side that has most of it will probablv win.
* * * *
One of the contestants in the recent Mel-
boUrne-to-Sydney Motor Bike Reliability Test has
declared that, if the military authorities desired it, a
dispatch could be carried by motor-bike from Melbourne
to Sydney in 36 hours. And there is nothing impossible
about it, either. It means only an average of
16 miles per hour, and as long as tracks are
at all decent that can be maintained easily enough.
But it is not for carrying dispatches from Melbourne to
Sydney that the motor-bike will prove efficacious. Think
of the mobility of a force mounted on these machines.
Imagine a picked force of, say, 2000 riflemen, mounted on
3£-h.p. motor-bikes. How could they harry a force march-
ing on foot, or toiling along on horses ! The more one looks
at it the more he must admit that Shanks’ pony, as a mili-
tary conveyance, is a played-out vehicle. When one consid-
ers that the ordinary bike relay carried a despatch from
Adelaide to Sydney in 69hr. 35min., the blessed continent
grows small. The point is that when war strikes this
country we are a small force, and must make up for our
diminutiveness by extra mobility, coupled with ability to
hit extra hard.
* * * *
Recognition of the fact that young George Gray
is practically the champion billiardist of the world has
directed general attention to the difficulties in the way
of his meeting Stevenson under the accepted champion-
ship conditions. Gray is bound by contract to play only
with “ crystalate ” composition balls on a certain make
of table, i.c., on tables made by a certain firm. Appar-
ently the cloth used by this firm is not quite the same
material that covers the slate bed of a table such as
Stevenson and Inman played on a year ago ; also the
cushions may be a trifle more or less “ lively ” than those
fitted to other tables, of the same standard measurement
in all respects, which have hitherto been chosen for
championship matches. But, anyhow, the firm that en-
gaged Gray to advertise its tables by always playing on
them would hardly object to giving him a permit to go
and win the championship title on a table of different
brand. The difficulty as to the sort of balls he tvotild
have to play with is apparently insuperable for a while.
Rivalry between the manufacturers of various composi-
tions explains why “ivories” are the fixed rule
in championship matches. The elephant has no
commercial advantage to gain by providing the
material for “ standard ” billiard balls. Moreover, a set
of perfect ivories is more suitable to the delicate method
of Stevenson or Roberts than even a set of perfect crvstal-
ates, which are the most resilient, perhaps, of all the
composition balls. Practising always with crystalates,
Gray might “ throw the game away” if he were to meet
Stevenson in a match with ivories—at present. His
ability to adapt his unrivalled skill in the losing hazard
game to slightly altered conditions is not questioned by
unprejudiced critics, but he may need a little time for
doing it. Or it maybe that he is already prepared to
give anybody the choice of balls, cloth, table, time and
place in a match for £lOOO a side.
* * « *
Some of the early English comments on George
Gray’s billiards must have “ tickled him to death.” One
writer was good enough to think that, with care and
practice, the youngster would “have a billiard future.”'
Another complained that “ his pose and style are in-
elegant, and his habit of rushing to another part of the
room might well be improved upon,” as though his wild
excursions were calculated to prevent him from rushing
back to the table to make another break of 1000 or so.
* ■* * *
If beef counts for anything in future sculling
champions, there are two aspirants who will make an
impression, Albert Jackson, who is being buttressed
with much Maoriland boodle, weighs 14st., and,
from socks to hat-top, stretches over 6ft. The
other huge aspirant on the horizon is Ike Good-’
win, a 15-st.one sleeper-cutter, brought from the
N.S.W. bush by Harry Floyd, and being schooled by
Dick Arnst and supporters on the Parramatta River.
From thedaily congregation of scullers on the Parramatta
River it is evident that this season will either boom or
“ bust ” the sculling fever.
* * * *
Dick Arnst’s intention to some day have a
smack at the world’s boxing championship still rankles
’neath his waistcoat, and he seldom misses his daily
training lesson in the Yankee camp. Arnst is
a big supporter of the Yankee section of bruisers;
though doubtless accounts are balanced by the “ sup-
port ” which Arnst’s presence secures. But the fault
with Dick is his shortness of arm. There is plenty of beef
about him; but the thought Of a short-range fighter stand-
ing up to gorilla-armed Johnson is awful. Unless Arnst
can get his arms lengthened he would be wise not to
venture beyond the training shed.
* * * *
The totalisator in Maoriland continues to shock
its enemies. At the recent Auckland race-meeting
£94,791 was handled by the machine in four days—the
tallest one-day total being £29,542. Also, 38 “ books ”
flourished in opposition to the machine. The “books”
are now squelched in M.L., and in future the public will
have the opportunity of getting a full return for its
money from the machine, and the loud bray of Mr. Bag
will not be heard in the land.
* * * *
F. Merton, who is dubbed the “plunger”
amongst the racehorse owners of Sydney, has fashioned a
new path by ladling out a retainer of £5OO per annum for
first call on jockey W. H. Smith, in addition to which
the jock will take his customary “ cut ” of winning
mounts. So far as is openly known, the retainer is a
record for Australia. As Merton’s gee-gee Roseen was
carried first past the post by Smith on Saturday, perhaps
the philanthropic owner got some of the boodle back
early.
BILL’S PUNCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a story around Tannvorth that Bill Squires has
recovered his punch. In a disturbance there recently
seven coves, blokes and cobbers attacked him, and were
smashed up in short order but with great thoroughness.
Only one escaped.—The Bulletin Sllj’ll.
It bided of old a fearsome thing,
Of a mythical quantity
In my bare right arm, and it swept the ring
In a way that was sweet to see ;
And a roar would shatter the smoke-blue air,
And the gravelled ground would crunch
'Neath hammering boots, to the bulging door,
As I cornered my man and he smote the floor
, At the kick of my pristine punch.
Then the bitterest draught that life affords
1 I drank, and the world went hang
When I bowed to the Yankee, and bit the boards
At the mitts of William Lang ;
My frown kept all its impressiveness,
My shoulders their old-time hunch,
I butted and ducked convincingly.
Yet something I cherished had gone from me,
And I knew it at last—my punch !
Seven there were in a Tamworth bar,
Brimming with mirth and beer ;
Yet a joke may travel a trifle far
1 When it lands behind the ear.
So I lowered my head in the ancient style,
And I tackled the closing bunch.
And the new-found strength of a friend long-gone
Leapt to my shoulders and drove me on.
What more ? I had found my punch !
VICTORIA.
J. ALNY. ALLAN.


LOOK FOR NAME IN SHOE
Now
the question reduces it-
self to just this: Are
you willing to trust to
chance in buying Shoes,
or are you going to
assure yourself of get-
ting the Finest Shoes J
ever made in Australia— |
|
(never so Id without J
name on strap) ? j
II
HALF & QUARTER SIZES II
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in Stock, i
If yours don't , write and we will send you
address 0/the nearest Dealer, with Catalog “
Marshall Shoe Co
Hi
II
m
RIGNEY
SHOES
for ...
MENK
of leather is used
in the making' of
Rigney Shoes. The
workmanship is posi-
tively the highest
grade. The styles the
very latest.
The Shoe illustrated
is a choice Tan Rus-
sian Calf Oxford Shoe,
Back Counter afi d
Perforations, Fin e-
Stitched
Welts,
25)6.
Also Dark Tan Shoe, 18/6,
In Lace Boots, ditto. Also Black, 2.1/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Send us your name and address for a copy of our
New Catalogue.
The RICNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Exclusive Men's High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is
under the personal management of Mr. F. C.
ltigaiey, the sole and only proprietor of the above
firm.
((
The Waybacks Again,
joy and laughter about the famous
it Another
1 stack of
familv. Is.
THe “MOTA” (Regd.).
The “ Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking, driving or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “Mota” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses thr ugh-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED.
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
SHELL 9
GIVES
BEST
ALL-ROUND
RESULTS!
UNDER
ALL
CONDITIONS.
AMD THAT'S WHAT YOU NEED.
T-t*-
■
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h p. Chalmers
£,490 Touring Car.
40=hp. THOMAS,
6=Cy linder 7=Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
Wanted.
Wanted Firms or
Reliable Men
to represent old-established Sash and
Door Factory, to sell Millwork. Best
material and workmanship. Careful
packing-—rock-bottom prices square
dealing. Chance for bright business
men in different 1 sections to double their
money.
O. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
1943 Ist Ave., Seattle,
Washington, U.S.A.
sdfg
TX7"E make no exaggerated
statements concerning the merits of the
"I WAN” Post Hole Auger. With a 10 inch (the size
most used for fencing) users find that a good days
work is to sink 120 holes; at the same time, users of
smaller sizes sink upwards of 200 holes in a day. In
addition to the fast digging the hole is cut just right for
the post, and by extending the pipe handle the "IWAN’
Auger will BORE TO 35 FEET. EMPTIES WITH A
SHAKE AND HAS NO ADJUSTABLE PARTS-a
most important feature—for nothing can possibly get
out of order.
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 inch dia.
71- 71- 71- 71- 718 8/6 9/6 10/- 271- 34 1- each.
"Get the Reliable Fast Digging “Iwan.”
SOLE AGENTS:
Thomas McPherson & Soil,
(Established 50 years).
582-588 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
.
-ft.!.! 'V';;
~a rsv
life
fp
M
£•;
JV‘7
E
»f:l 8
,
•tS
jr,fiz&ij&r '■:■! <fri£g.
fy&s£-
ffi::
HP
.
EITO- .•
lawp .• • *.
£4 ”
Our 256 page Catalogue Illustrates 2,000
modern Tools and Requisites for Farm
and Workshop. Write for it.
Reasons Why
You should Sell Your WHEAT through us.
1. We have over five acres of floor space in our Warehouse, and can handle a very large
quantity without overcrowding and the attendant danger of mixing brands."
2. Each owner’s consignments stacked and sold separately.
3. The basement floors being of concrete and the ceilings unlined, there is no harbor for
rats and mice.
4. We allow you three or four months’ free storage, if required.
5. We give the most careful attention to every consignment, no matter how small.
6. We guarantee accurate weighing, full market value and prompt returns.
7. If required, we make liberal advances on goods in store awaiting sale.
8. Remember the delay and annoyance occasioned last season through scarcity of
railway trucks, and get your wheat down as early as possible in order to be in a
position to take advantage of any sudden rise in the market. Your wheat is- ■
fully covered by insurance whilst in our stores, and it is much better to have it
stored with us than lying at some country siding where it is not effectually
protected from the weather.
9. Our charges are as reasonable as we can make them, consistent with reliable agency,
which it is our intention to maintain.
SELLING CHARGE, 2\ Per Cent.
Cartage from Railway to Store, 3/= per ton. (This charge is avoided
when the Wheat is sold ex Trucks.)
Insurance at ordinary rates when stored for any length of time. (This
charge is avoided when the Wheat is sold ex Trucks.)
When Wheat is sold ex Railway Trucks, the only charge to the consignor is per
cent, commission.
EXPERT VALUATIONS FURNISHED WHEN REQUIRED.
Sample Bags and Addressed Envelopes supplied on application to THE MANAGER,
WOOL and PRODUCE DEPARTMENT,
A. M. L. <a F. CO. LTD.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Wool, Produce and Grain Salesmen.
Also at MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
“Triumph” Endurance Proved.
sdf
The dependability of the “Triumph ” Motor-Cycle was conclusively proved
on December 31st last, when two of them dead-heated with another
make for first place in the Melbourne to Sydney Reliability Trial,
These machines ran throughout the three days’ strenuous trip without
either one losing a single point, and this in spite of the fact that, over
210 miles were covered during the last day.
If you had any doubt before as to “ Triumph ” superiority this severe test
should have removed it. Call and let us show you duplicates of the
machines which finished.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Sole A*rent.s for the “ Triumph ” in N.S.W.,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagli Street,
'jyoncy.
the:
MELBOURNEtoSYDNEY
MILES)
u
• *
t^VC?
resulted in another SWEEPING
VICTORY for the DURABIL-
ITY and RELIABILITY of
mr
w
f
m
✓’
&
&
rtf?
<-•?<
SK
n|:|
ms*
mm
***«»TS
Jf ;♦#
V *T*
91
■
Five
Riders
Of
20
out
competitors started on
“ Dunlops,” and they fin-
ished in the first five places.
THE QUALITY and THICKNESS
of our Motor Cycle Covers pre-
'■ eludes their being cheap-priced,
but the wear and satisfaction
they give makes them easily the
Best. Most Economical, and Most
Satisfactory Tyre for use on
Australasian Roads.
IF YOU want the Best, you must
specify “ Dunlops.” Obtainable
all leading agencies.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All Staley* N.Z
John S. Maley, who died recently in
Westralia, was one of the pioneer engineers of the
big State, and the first man to use the now-
universal silk-dressing machinery in a western
flour mill. In his early years he was associated
with old Solomon Cook, who ran the pioneer
steamers on the Swan by the grace of Providence
and the “puffing Billy” type of engine. But
Maley had a fixed desire for the independent life,
and moved out to Greenough, the then wheat
centre of the State, where he erected his flour
mill. For many years, he wrestled with hard
luck; but finally broke it in seven pieces and
chased the fragments over the sky line. He died
prosperous and happy, and no man can do more.
The inevitable row- happened in the
Westralian Assembly when the Rat-catching
Government proceeded to bullock through its
electoral jerrymandering scheme ; and before the
row ended the Speaker had sent for the Sergeant-
at-Arms, and the Sergeant-at-Arms had been
told to run away and play, and a con-
stable had been sent for, and J. B: Hol-
man, of the Murchison, had told the chair
that it was a hired tool, and the chair had
told Holman to take the rest of the evening off,
and five more Labor-Oppositionists had been sent
out into the cold world, and the Bill had then been
thrown at the Government with the remark that
it could have the political swindle all to itself.


WONDERFUL VALUES.
Beautiful Goods The Newest Ideas Unsurpassed in Quality
and Value for the Prices asked Just Read the Descriptions.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Fancy
Floral China, Silver-plated
Mounts,
7/C.
Other Styles, 9/6, 10/C,
12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Silver-plated Frame, Fancy
China Dish, size 6 x 4J in,
. 4/6.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4 Bottles, Pressed
Glass, Silver-plated Frame,
14/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 17/6, 21/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Silver-plated
Frame, Floral China,
10/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS. .
INKSTAND, Silver-plated Stand, Crystal -Glass Bottles,
12/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 15/6, 17/6. 20/.
jm
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Silver-plated, Handsomely Fluted and
Embossed, 207-
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
-Jiliiar
£
%
s^l
Aly
A. SAUNDERS.
DOUBLE EGG STAND, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, with
Spoons to match,
10/6.
Embossed Base, 12/6.
BREAKFAST cruet,
Pure Silver-plated, Crys-
tal Glass Bottles,
12/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 14/6,17/6
TEA STRALnEK, Silver-
plated, Nickel Silver,
2/6-
Other Styles 8/6. 4/0, 5/6.
xl.BE, Pure
Silver-plated, Crystal
Glass, Bin high,
10/6 per pair.
Other Styles, 8/6, 12/6,
15/6.
wm
sK C>’S?*£
551
55ALS
BUTTER DISH, Silver-plated Lid and
Base, Crystal Glass Dish,
5/6.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6. 12/6.
BREAD FOiuv,
Silver-plated
Stag Handle.
ALL GOODS SENT
POST FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS,
CLOCKS and CHINA
WARE EXCEPTED.
FLOWER STAND, 4-Branch, Eure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, with Rubv,
Opal, or Neutral Tinted Glass Tubes,
B£in. high. 15/t». 3-Branch, 10/6.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
SENT POST FREE
TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
WRITE FOR A COPY
jti&uznd&ZJ.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS,
Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Embossed, in
Silk-lined Case,
12/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 15/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
SOUVENIR EMU EGG-STAND, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Hand-carved, Ebonised Wood
Base, 10£in high,
20/-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 35/, 40/.
SERVIETTE RING, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed,
3/6.
Other Styles, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6.
CUTLERY SET, comprising Half-dozen Dessert
Knives, Finest Sheffield Steel, with Square Xylonite
Handles, and J-Doxen Solid Nickel Forks, in
Leatherette Case,
15/-
Table Knives, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY or JAM JAR
and SERVER, Silver-
plated Frame, Fancy Flc*
ral China, S/({.
Other Styles, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLAR, Pure
Silver-plated Stand and
Spoon, Fancy Rainbow
Glass,
8/6 per pair.
JAM DISH, Silver-plated
Frame, Ruby-tinted Glass,
9/6
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
12/6, 16/.
SPECIMEN TUBE, Silver-
plated Nickel Silver,
Tulip Design, Gilt-lined,
6in high,
4/6.
Other Styles, 6/6, 6/6, 7/6.
TEA-POT STAND, Fancy China Base, Silver-
plated Frame,
0/6.
Other Styles, with handles, 7/6.
gsd
BREAD KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed,
Fine Sheffield
Steel Blade,
S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEPPER MILL, Highly
Polished Nickel throughout,
Nicely Finished,
3/6.
Other Styles, 1/, 1/9, 2/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, Fancy Floral Clnna,
Pure Silver-plated,
20/-
Otlier Styles, 15/0, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE DISH, Fancy Floral China, Silver-
plated Frame,
7/0.
Ditto, Double Dishes, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Silver-plated,on Nickel Silver, Richly Engraved,
17/0.
Other Styles, 20/, 22/6, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, Silver-
plated Frame, Full Hob-nail Cut
Bottles,
25/-
Othfir Styles, 30/, 40/, 45/.,
life
tro
33s©rit
SSI
'
■
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Al
Quality, Richly Engraved, with Knife to Match,
257-
Other Styles, 30/, 32/6, 35/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


•V
: 4
1 a'"„
I
v : v,,
SL \
1 >1
a*
®Sp
fe V $
m
SmraF
SB
m
I
c
T 4 V.
M
t
I*/
&; ■■ ; - .'l&v
>\ Ai 4;
4l v s
-■■V v ■
■
X
1 *.. . J
%r.
i
.
ISIS
if!
1 I !
4
*
nnHHnnnH
IS^BBi^BSSBSiSSSSSS^SBEESgS
«
Hj Bft
jjH - .4249 j
TIME -TESTS -OLL-TniNCS
SIMONIDES’ truism, “There is no better test of a man’s work than time,” applies with
special force to motor tyres. Because Continental Tyres have won so many honors
in time tests, we do not hesitate to give the best of all guarantees—complete
satisfaction —with every tyre we sell.
Length of service is a most important point to consider when buying motor or cycle tyres.
The tyres fitted to new cars by manufacturers are not always the most suitable for the car’s
requirements-very frequently they are too small to carry a “full load ” over the rough roads so
frequently encountered beyond the city area.
Before finally purchasing a car obtain full particulars of the size of both front and back tyres,
and ask us if they are large enough. A word of advice before you buy may save you a big tyre bill
later on, and much trouble and inconvenience in the meantime.
The new.l9ll Model de Course Square Tread Continental Tyres have arrived. Jn quality and
workmanship these tyres show further improvement of the kind that will minimise tyre troubles.
Continental C. & G. Rubber Co.,
Sydney Melbourne —Brisbane —Adelaide —Perth —Launceston —and New Zealand.
. H JSE


An Interesting 1
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of tiie above portrait. The Grey
“ half ’’ will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of—Alfred Ardley (Registered n the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Ladies’ Stylish
Summer
Footwear.
fg
PRICE,
Stylish Shoes give any woman a well-bred
and up-to-date appearance.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the finest im-
ported models, and is eminently suited to the
present fashions.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Cazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Brown,
large tin, 6d.
Write for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
LEXMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. [
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
tJOHRiSS
ree Witches^
•^SShn
fir for' 10
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ks per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
08
mm
I »»—eg""**
K
to
VIII WILL RELISH FOOD
AND HAVE NO MORE PAINS
AFTER EATING
“It is a far, far better thing ” than most people
imagine to be able to relish food and have no pains,
no headaches, no biliousness, no constipation to follow.
It means that your digestion is sound and that your
stomach, liver and bowels are in working order. It
means that you are fit and well —fit for your daily
work —fit for the battle of life—fit to fight disease if
ever it should come near you.
On the other hand, if you have lo.st your appetite,
if you don’t relish food, if you have headaches, biliousness,
constipation, sleeplessness and a “ run down,” “ fagged ”
IF YOU TAKE THE DIGESTIVE TONIC
feeling, your stomach and liver are out of order, You
need the gentle aid of the herbal tonic, Mother Seigel's
Syrup —the greatest stomach and liver tonic in the world.
The Syrup will restore your digestive organs to
working order, give you appetite and relish for food,
and prevent any digestive troubles. In short, it will
give you health, strength, and “ fitness.” Try it to-day !
Mr. R. Jones, 222, Roma Street, Brisbane, Queensland, writes :
“ I was in misery with indigestion for eighteen solid months. 1
endured a gi-eat deal of pain and discomfort in my stomach after
every meal. Also I had a feeling, beneath the breast-bone, as if
there were a heavy stone lying there, and I felt heavy, sluggish and
uncomfortable. 1 often went without food, when 1 was really
hungry, to save myself from the pains it produced. At last 1 was
recommended to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and by the time 1
had finished the second bottle, 1 was cured for good.” 9/4/1910.
MOTHER
SEIGELS SYRUP
MADE OF ROOTS, BARKS AND LEAVES.
Take a dose of the Syrup immediately after your next meal.
The Only Manufacturers of the Genuine “WEDGWOOD ” CHINA
Josiah Wedgwood 8 Sons Ltd.,
Etruria, England.
Established 1760.
Our Trade
Mark
is not
II
HP"
Wedgwood
Ltd.
OUR REGISTERED TRADE MARK IS
<1
WEDGWOOD
(ONE WORD ONLY)
Our Trade
Mark
sdf
is not
Wedgwood
& Co.
Sole Australasian Representatives —
WH. HODGE 8 SON,
91a YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
29 ELLIOT ST., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Hans Sourkrout is already a mighty man on the
sea ; at the end of 1909 his Hamburg-Amerioan Co., with
570.000 tons of shipping, was the biggest steamship owner
in theworld ; and his Norddeutscher Lloyd, with 752,000
tons, came next (the biggest English co. had 461,000
tons). Also, Hans owned five out of the 30 steamers afloat
that did 20 knots and over. Now he is making a fresh
splash, for his Hamburg-American Co. is building a
60,000-ton leviathan (if the cable hasn’t gone mad) and 14
smaller vessels, and it intends to be the first owner in his-
tory with well over 1,000,000 tons of steam-driven shipping
on the seas.
* * * *
The Duke of Abereorn, chairman of the Char-
tered Co., was telling the shareholders things about one
of their Rhodesia mines at the last half-yearly meeting-of
the co., when one Elliot, a typical “Colonial,” uprose
and asked whether it was intended to send a Derby driller
to this mine. Abereorn intimated acidly that the
directors had no intention of wasting the shareholders’
money on the purchase of Derby winners, besides which,
horse-breeding was in no sense one of the objects of the
Chartered Co. Amid the profound hush that followed,
each man brooded hard on the usefulness of having a
peer at the head of a business concern.
1 * * * *
The announcement that Auckland (M.L.) is to
be a naval base has given the city swelled head and a
land boom. Suburban and city blocks are selling at
fancy prices, and speculation is even brisker than it was
in Wellington some time hack. Wellington is now
nursing its head ; but, as usual in such cases, Auckland
swears there will be no sore head for it to nurse. It
swore to the same effect in the ’Bo’s ; but still it had a
mighty sick and sorry feeling afterwards.
“T.T.” : A correspondent in a recent Bulletin
mentioned that some N.S.W. storekeepers draw pension-
monev for O. A.P.’s. It is as well they should know that
this is entirely against the law. I got a paper signed for
an O.A.P. by a storekeeper, who was willing to draw the
old chap’s money for him and thus save him a journey,
but the application was sent back with the cold remark
that the law did not allow storekeepers to draw O.A.P.
money, and asking to have the paper signed by some
friend who didn’t have sugar and soap to sell.
* * * »
“Vulcan”: British shipowners’ grievances
against the Bull Government over the extra-healthy size
of the Suez Canal dues have some substance in them.
Bull’s shar. s were originaily bought in 1875 for £3,976,582.
In 1909, in interest and dividi nds, he received the trifle
of £1,056,207. For the previous five years, interest
totalled a mere £5,349,758; while the original four-
millions’ worth of shares have, in 40 years, soared to a
present-day market value of 32 millions ! Even Doolette’s
Bullfinch looks a poor fowl alongside that! About three-
fifths of the tonnage which passes through the canal is
carried in British bottoms; so Bull, as the biggest indi-
vidual" shareholder, is thus mostly putting himself
through the squasher. The figures explain why the
Egyptian Government recently threw out the Canal Co.’s
request for a further 40 years’ extension of its concession.
The concession terminates in 1968, and the Coffee-
colored Government, through whose territory the canal
runs exclusively, and whose mostly-unpaid nigger did
the digging, reckoned it could do with some dividends
itself about that time.
* * * *
“Foe”: I understand there are 5000 estate
agents in N.S.W. alone. I have tried to count how many
there are in our nice, new, red-tiled suburb, but have
collapsed through over-exertion. If somebody told me
there were 83 I would not call h'm a liar Horatio B.
Slump, the latest man to put up a signboard, has abso-
lutely nothing to do. Before he established himself at
all, there were at least three other agents with absolutely
nothing to do ; but they must have private means, or else
they practise piracy after dark on the harbor, for they
manage to keep their waistcoats from sagging. The
wretched Slump, however, is trying to live on the game
or tragedy, and is sliding down the road to ruin.
He is a harmless man with a broad grin, and would be
a general favorite, only he is up to his signboard in debt
to the tradespeople, and their daily round is embittered
by seeing him loafing for 12 hours out of every 24 in front
of his useless premises. He only disappears at meal times
to eat the food reluctantly provided by his raging
creditors ; then he hastily returns to smoke his peaceful
pipe in their faces. The struggling young butcher
opposite, to whom he owes pounds, is his most savage
critic. The butcher spends laborious days throwing dead
animals about, and every time he dumps the hind leg of
a bullock in his shop he gasps out a curse on the placid
agent, who spends his days like Patience in a main street
smiling at insolvency. Some day lam afraid the butcher
will rush across the street and hit him with a complete
sheep. Then there will be one less than 5000 estate
agents in N.S.W.
* • * *
“Vic”: The children of this world give points
to the children of light. .The £6OOO rental drawn from
warehouses on the “ consecrated ground ” of St. James’s,
Melbourne, has been referred to. This suggested a simi-
lar move at St. Luke’s, South Melbourne. Opposite St.
Luke’s there was until lately a dingy little Presbyterian
Church, on the corner of Clarendon and Dorcas streets.
It must have been almost insolvent. Ronald, the Harper-
ite, tried in vain to make it gee. But the gee-genius
came along. He turned the Clarendon-street frontage
into shops; the little church around the corner was
knocked down and carted away, and a splendid new
church and manse were built—and there they are, doing
prosperously ! Similarly, the North Melbourne Wesleyans,
desperately hard-up, have pulled through by building a
terrace of houses.
A LAY OP THE PERFECT GENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
yERY gentlemanly young man (21) would like Em-
* ployment with auctioneers, view to learning
business ; would start low salary. Intellect, Argus
office. — Melbourne Advt.
Now, this is a lay of the Perfect Gent, whose manners are
something pure ;
A lay, this is, of a jobless one who’s modest and mild, I'm
sure.
Oh, he is of gentle birth, indeed, and a kid-gloved soul is
his
Who wants to toil, on the learning lay, at the auctioneer-
ing biz.
Avery exceptional sort of gent., a rare and attractive
bird
Is now on the hunt for a decent job—a gentleman’s job
preferred ;
His collar and cuffs are white as snow, a triumph of
laundry art,
And he is a model, a Perfect Gent, who’s willing to
“scab” for a start.
An intellectual, brainy, brisk, unusual youth is this ;
To him a salary neat and small in no wise comes amiss ;
His hands are lily-like, cornless, slim ; his manners are
excellent,
With a chaste address that is just the thing for an
auctioneering gent.
His own opinion of him is high ; his voice is a lovely
bleat;
His shoes are small, like his smug, young soul, and his tie
is a perfect treat;
His socks are “ hot ” and his hat is such as a gentleman’s
son might wear,
And he takes some pride in his new-born mo, and his
carefully-plastered hair.
His own opinion of him is high, though his salary-value’s
low ;
And he’ll sell his services coolie cheap, as a gentleman
can, you know ;
His manner is cultured and soapy-smooth, and his
modesty takes the bun,
And he’s willing to work at the sort of work a gentleman
need not shun.
So this is a lay of the Perfect Gent., of the smug soul,
polished and prim,
Of the thin-bread-and-butter-fed, pale young man, and
the manners that go with him ;
f the beautiful blighter inside whose chest a longing
for labor lurks. . .
He’spining to toil, for a lady’s screw, at an auctioneering
works.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


THIS WILL SATISFY YOU
that you can Have every confidence in buying' a
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANO.
We are the largest distributors of pianos in Australasia.
We have sold over twenty-six thousand pianos in Australia, and of that number more than fourteen thousand
are our own make— Beale High-Grade Pianos.
There is nothing to prevent us selling any style or make of piano in the wide world, for we can easily
import them —but we sell only Beale High-Grade Pianos, because they are eminently superior.
Our factories are the largest in the British Empire, and the most complete in the whole world.
Every detail of the piano-builder’s art is carried on in our own factories, and we thus have absolute control
of the quality of all materials and workmanship, and of the design throughout.
Our sole aim is to make pianos of high quality for discriminating buyers. We have no desire whatever to make
cheap—and shoddy—instruments.
At the same time, our prices are not as high as those of the best imported pianos, for we sell to you
direct from the factory, without the intervention of any middlemen, and avoiding 25 per cent, duty,
as well as importing charges.
Beale High-Grade Pianos are built specially to withstand extremes of climate.
They contain improvements which are not to be found in other pianos, and which are the outcome of
years of close study and heavy expenditure.
Our patented steel tuning system really is the acme of simplicity and efficiency, and is the very thing
which every piano-maker has been seeking ever since the introduction of the iron frame.
Our cabinet-work is constructed on a patented system of many cross-plies of timber, with the grain running in
opposite directions. With this construction it is impossible for the woodwork to warp or split in any climate.
The timber used throughout is specially selected , and is seasoned for many years in the open air, being
finished off in up-to-date drying kilns. It is then quite free from sap and perfectly inert, so that
climatic influence thereafter is reduced to a minimum.
Our sounding-boards are entirely unaffected by the severest atmospheric changes.
We have made a thorough study of the practice of the best European and American piano-makers, and we
do not neglect a single lesson to be learned from them. Where our methods differ from theirs —
it is solely in the direction of improvement.
We can show you hundreds—even. thousands— of testimonials from buyers who daily use Beale High-Grade
Pianos in their own homes.
The directors of the Strand Palace Hotel, the largest and most luxurious hotel in London, express their entire
satisfaction with the Beale High-Grade Pianos installed therein, and have ordered more.
We were awarded the Grand Prize and three Gold Medals at the Franco-British Exhibition, London, 1908.
~ ■ r, . - %**
But the best proof of the high quality of Beale High-Grade Pianos is this : the better
they become known, the more we sell of them ! Give this a moment’s thought.
J o
Four times in ten years we have had to largely increase the capacity of our factories, and we
are now engaged on the greatest addition yet made.
In the casework, we can give you a choice of very beautiful Australian timbers, if desired, without extra charge.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G.P.O.— our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue f or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


Mm
. . . ■ -
Sill Ililiss ■ 811■ 1 fSSp|
MB
■
1111
- :
■
■
lllliilillß
m
■
'
m
i
i
ml
m
V
SK
a
i
m
I
i
m
S
l
«
1
r r
m
m
1
,
i-W
m
In
i
im
‘{ : '
mmm
■■■.:, _
■
■
WM
1
.^r-<rt r ■
r« M
i
WKt
1/
m :
■
m
m
Biiiii
IICI
mm
I
.
■
'
■■■
s i
REGULAR &
X
AUSTRALIAN
STATE
LJ
-
.
'v/T,
tmg - ■*' - - 7'% , x
S?.'
: ADELAIDE; ;
HOWARD SMITH C°L T P HUDDART PARKER &C? PIT Lt?
S. mhiwraith,
i 18111 l 1 IMliilN ■


Latest
EDISON
Records
gsdf
The New Edison' Records will be on sale at all dealers to-morrow, Friday, January 20.
The lUts for February contain many particularly choice items, including some of the
finest Grand Opera Amberol Records we have yet issued. All the old popular
favorites are represented. One of the best of the Records is that which renders
favorite airs from “ The Arcadians,” by the Edison Comic Opera Company. It Is sure
to command a large sale.
You should call on your nearest dealer and get him to let you hear these new Records.
We can give you his address if you do not know It. And we’ll send you complete
lists of Machines and Records, too.
Amberol Records for February
(FOUR-MINUTE).
475
476
477
478
4SI
482
483
484
485
487
488
489
490
492
8017
12183
12184
121&5
12186
Who Will Care for Mother Now?
Oakland and Chorus
Favorite Airs from “The Arcadians”
Edison Comic Opera Co.
The Moonlight, the Rose and You
Stanley and Gillette
The Post in the Forest (Cornet and Post Horn)
Heim and Waldhorn Quartette
Blue Danube Waliz
American Standard Orchestra
I’m Afraid of You
Manuel Romain and Chorus
Sunshine in My Soul .. Edison Mixed Quartette
Ballet Music from “ Le Cid ” (a) Aubade ; (b)
Navarraise .. .. Herbert and Orchestra
Call Me Up Some Rainy Afternoon
Jones and Chorus
March Religioso—Gospel Hymns
Edison Concert Band
The Morning After the Night Before
Murray and Chorus
“Pals” .. .. .. Jones and Spencer
The Voice of Our Nation Medley—Part I.
U.S. Marine Band
A Night Trip to Buffalo Premier Quartette
I,a Sopimpa (Guitar Solo) .. Jose Ramirez
The Last Rose of Summer .. Amy Evans
The Pilgrims George Form by
The Broken Melody (’Cello) .. Jean Schwiller
The Arrow and the Song .. Peter Dawson
12188 La Czarine, Mazurka (Concertina)
Alexander Prince
12189 The Promise of Life .. Violet Oppenshavv
12191 With Sword and Lance, March
National Mil. Band
Amberol Records in Italian.
5001 Del tempio al limitar—“ Pescatori di Perle ”
Daddi and Reschiglian
5004 Ah ! —lo vedi —“ Cavalleria Rusticana”
Avezza and Daddi
5005 Verranno a te sull’ aure—“ Lucia ”
Avezza and Daddi
Grand Opera Amberol Records.
40018 Tannhauser —Romerzahlunsj (in German)
Karl Jorn
40019 Thais—Alexandria 1 (in Italian)
Giovanni Polese
40020 Torna a Surriento —Neapolitan Sonjr (Suny in
Italian) (Dialect) .. Carmen Melis
40021 Le Cid—Pleurez mes yeux (in French)
Marvuerita Sylva
40022 Proph&te—Ah ! mon fils (in French)
Marie Delna
Standard Records for February
(TWO-MINUTE).
10395 Knights of Columbus March . .N. Y. Mil. Band
10397 Kerrigan’s Bachelor Dinner .. Len Spencer
10398 Austrian Army March
U.S. Marine Band Orchestra
10399 Daisies Won’t Tell .. Manuel Bomain
10401 Mack’s Lullaby Will Oakland
10404 There is a Fountain Edison Mixed Quartette
10406 If Yon Love But Me Herbert and Orchestra
10407 Mr. Editor, How Do You Know ? Ada Jones
10408 Dear Old Moonlight .. Peerless Quartette
13978 The Druid’s Prayer, Waltz
National Military Band
13979 Within a Mile of Edinboro’Toon. .Amy Evans
13981 Stirling Castle (Accordion) .. Peter Wyper
13982 I’ll Take You Home Again, Kathleen
Pike and Kirkby
18983 Rip Van Winkle.. .. .. Florrie Forde
13984 Mister Blackman (Concertina)
Alexander Prince
13957 The Rifle Quickstep National Military Band
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
g
CHICAGO
sdfg
UNDER VICE-REGAL,
sdf
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth * Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
Tbey glide
over the paper as
a skilful skater
skims over the
ice. No sticking-,
spurting or splut-
tering, Isn't this
what YOU are
looking for ?
BALL-
POINTEP
PENS!
They write
with the ease and
comfort of a lead
pencil* The little
ball on the point
is a real wonder
worker. Try a
6d. Sample Box.
Obtainable from
all Stationers.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains. N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made bv the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during 1 the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideg,l resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to stjirt from the City Office —or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superh, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Horel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Moior trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, of from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
ILLARINE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCE
\
t=>
LOOK MANLY!
DON’T have everybody remarking- about the few white soft hairs on
your upper lip—the cricket match eleven-a-side apology for a
moustache you have. They say you are a mere boy—and argue •
some physical weakness from it. Grow a manly moustache—a real long,
strong, shapely growth—and remove your reproach.
CIA PI! I AIMNTF* will srrow it for you—it’s proved it with
thjs 30 vearS) and never yeD failed
The C.&A. Moustache Trainer makes the moustache
a nice shape. Worn at night. 2/6 post free.
CAPILLARINE costs 10/6 a Jar. Post free anywhere in plain package.
CRAIG & AITKENi 654 George St*, Sydney* a y e ars ed
r
A
WORTH £lO
to any
Stomach and Liver.
KEEN, BRAINY, MONEY-MAKING BUSINESS MEN DRINK
"ALOR”
BEFORE IMPORTANT ENGAGEMENTS.
Non - Intoxicating'.
TAKEN WITH A SLICE OF LEMON IN SODA WATER OR APPOLLINARIS, “ ALOK ”
MAKES A MOST CHARMING AND REFRESHING DRINK.
unequalled for the appetite.
TAKEN BEFORE OR AFTER MEALS, THE GREATEST AID TO DIGESTION.
MADAME ALBANI, the Queen of Song, when in Australia, constantly drank “ALOK,” and
wrote praising its virtues for all who had FATIGUING WORK TO DO, and also stated it
was of great relief in cases of SEASICKNESS.
Kola
& V
Paw Paw
THE
great
DIGESTER!
Weak, shattered physical systems are built up and made robust
through a course of “ALO'K.” The prematurely aged are made
young again.
F. H. MOLES WORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S., Public Analyst,
reports as follows :
Dear Sirs, —
I have carefully examined the
composition of your preparation known
as “ Alok,” and I find that it contains Kola
Nut with all its well-known tonic properties,
and in addition there is present a soluble extract of
the Fruit, which is now so firmly established as
a great power for the restoration of diseased tissues to a healthy
condition, and also a good anti-dyspeptic (aid to digestion). The
combination, as prepared in Alok, has all the good qualities
of both these plant products perfectly preserved, resulting
in the yijeld of a really powerful tonic restorative
stimulant. “Alok” is a most wholesome
drink, which may be drunk as freely
as tea or coffee, and complies
with the regulations of
the Pure Food Act.
In the world, there is only one “ALOK.” Remember, take
nothing else but “Alok.” Don’t ask for Kola; insist upon having
“ALOK,” the Original and Registered DRINK. Chief ingredients—
KOLA NUTS
FOR STRENGTH, AND
PAW PAW
(RICH IN DIGESTIVE POWER).
“ALOK” is a wholesome, palatable Drink in itself, and one
that makes other beverages better.
“Alok” steadies the NERVES and restrains INTOXICATION.
A spoonful taken in whisky or brandy makes a drink fit for the
gods. All Clubs and Hotels, with Soda Water, Gd. per glass. All
Chemists, 2/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
With the valuable addition of PAW-PAW. “ALOK ” now pours
out a rich ruby liqbid. Kindly see that you get this.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS :
FISHER & COMPANY,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
337 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite General Post Office.
Grey Hair is a Sign of Age.
McGee’s Celebrated McGee’s Moustache
Hair Stain
is being used by hundreds of ladies
with satisfactory results. Stains grey
hair brown to black. Natural colors—
won’t wash off. Easy to apply.
Harmless and effective.
Prices 4/6 and 8/6 a bottle.
Posted 9d. extra, N.S.W. ; Inter-
State, 1/2.
Dye
has won its way on the grey mous-
taches of men by sheer force of its
sterling merit. Gives a nice brown
or black color. Cleanly to use.
Odorless. Won't rub or wash off.
Price 3/=
Posted, N.S.W. free ; Inter-State,
3/2-
ANDREW McGEE,
Gentlemen’s
Hairdresser,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
GUNS.
Specially
made for
DUCKS.
WE can execute any order for these at once. We keep a
larye and well-assorted stock of special LONG RANGE
and HEAVY CHARGE 12-gauge GUNS, by every maker of
repute known in this country.
PRICES :
BOSWELL.— Hammerless, £22 10s. ; £3O ; Hammer, £l7 10s.
0. and S. HOLLOWAY. —Hammerless, £l7 10s. ; Hammer, £l5.
COGSWELL and HARRlSON. —Hammerless, £25, £3O.
CASHMORE.— Hammer, £8 10s., £lO. ,
HOLLlS.— Hammerless, £ll, £l2, £l4; Hammer, £7 10s.,
£8 10s., £lO, £ll, £l2.
All the above are Heavy-weight Pigeon or Duck Guns,
nitro-proofed for the heaviest charges, and chambered for
either 2fin. or Sin. cartridges, as required. They are made
expressly for the purpose we offer them.
Postage—Victorian, 2s. 9d. ; Inter-State, ss. 2d. extra.
Catalogues sent Post Free.
Alcock & Pierce,
318 Little Collins Street,
.. . MELBOURNE.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Carrying one class of passengers only.
I .ON Do{> .'. •• £16 > £ lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN .SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA—ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-'uxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Room', Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
.1. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp &Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE.
Australian gank of gommerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAP OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONl ON OFFICE —2 King William Street, E.C.
DIR1 JTORS— Philip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt.; Hon.
Sir Francis 15. Suitor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Dccrer, Esq.; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
TheTT!
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock ...8,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. r ■ -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
fhe Colonial mutual gife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116,154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
<ravelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hor.. O. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
Nord Oeutscher L/loyd.
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “Wireless” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The bulletin post cards-Now
Series. IV., V.. VI, Packet' of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
gsdf
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
| January 18.
■ MEDIC, 12,000' tons, to sail about
| February 18.'
f AFRIC, SUEVIO and PERSIC: to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agenis in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
h Calls Hobart. a One class only.
Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. _ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
*
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Jan. 27, Mar. 10 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Feb. 24, April 7. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Commissioners have MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS and SETTLERS from £5O to £2OOO, repayable by
instalments extending- over 30 years. Low rates of interest and special repayment priuleges.
The Savings Bank Department accepts DEPOSITS from 1/- u,J to £5OO. Interest paid on the minimum
monthly balance.
THE SAFETY DEPOSIT BOX (Price 6d.) is the latest idea for savings. Try one.
ADVANCES MADE UP TO £25,000 at moderate rates of interest on City or Country Freeholds.
Full particulars and forms of application at anv Branch, Post Office Agency, Crown Lands Office, or at the
Head Office, MOOIIE STREET, SYDNEY. J. 11. Davies, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
g
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Tliomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norniand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, S rath Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells &. Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and island Curia Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY. Central 2106.
And 605 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. Cit.v 2374.
All Purchases Packed Free and Labelled.
urge Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow.and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
I’et Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals-in Large Variety.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS !
Temperature mild ; Atmosphere exhilarating; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfield Hotel, Hokrt.
The Leading Hotel—the Fashion ible Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished; Excellent
Attendance ; First-class Cuisine ; Kosher Meat; Telephone ; Electric Light; Select Billiard
Room, etc. Central Situation; close to River, Rail, Trains, G.P.0., Tourist Bureau, etc.
Rooms now being bojked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfield Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
-THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 CollinB-Bt, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Dirkct,ors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; lion. j. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esu., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M‘Cracken.
JAMES BURROW .MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. 0.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A.; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COOOWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Feb. 4 and
Mar. 4
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing- with Koombana
in Fremantle for North-
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Olirns.
S.S. Yonprala, Jan. 21.
S.S. Innamlncka, Jan. 28.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-screw Steamer.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United Slates
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
Fur full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
•Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F. — Ii. iS.
f'ederal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET,”
11,300 Tons. B. 6. Hayward, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - - 31st Jan.
„ „ „ SYDNEY .... 4th Feb.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - - 8th Feb.
,, „ ,, ADELAIDE - - - 13th Feb.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth e&bins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins arid spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
Liverpool'!. [ £4 ° 10s - £ ' 1313s - £1515s - £1717s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
I51RT & CO., Ltd., Svdne.v and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO., 1 Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACIiARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
m
Georoe. hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
n
nggaia;agg
BIRDS
Custard
*vvifr>
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.


ir>
,c*’
dLCOCK’S
SPORTING
REVIEW
Now on Sale at
all Newsagents.
4255
Monthly Magazine Devoted
exclusively to Sport.
3d.
Here are some of the special features of the first number :
BILLIARDS.
Genre;e Gray's Record Breaks.
Will Gray Beat Stevenson ?
Interviews with A. Williams, P. Lindrum and
C. Memmott.
Portraits of George Gray, H. W. Stevenson and
M. Inman.
SWIMMING.
“ With Beaurepaire Abroad,” by R. M. Collins.
Portrait of the World’s Champion.
WANTED, A WHITE CHAMPION.
Mr. H. D. Mclntosh’s Search for a Boxer to beat Johnson.
No. 1
Now
Ready.
TENNIS NOTES, by “ Footfault.” GOLF NOTES, by “ Clubman."
BOWLS NOTES, by “ Discobolus.” Portrait of F. F. Robinson.
CRICKET NOTES, by “ Wicketkeeper.” BRIDGE NOTES, by “ Deuce-Ace.”
Motoring, Cycling, Swimming, Boxing, Rowing, Rifle and other
Seasonable Sporting Notes, by well-known contributors.
Get No. 1 from your Newsagent.
PUBLISHING OFFICES :
7 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY; and 414 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
df
PICTURE SHOWMEN
ET the name for having an up-;o-date
show, and you’ll always draw full houses
—-the same people will come again
and again !
We can give you everything you require for
the business—get a copy of our 1911 Catalogue
and see how fully we cater for your wants.
There are lots of useful hints in it, and
prices of everything you need in the Picture
Business—appliances and the latest films and
Programmes.
Get our Latest Film List—
we’ll send it to your request.
JERDAN’S,
‘ THE LEADING
CINEMATOGRAPH
SPECIALISTS,”
393 George St. Roy ( af
Hotel), Sydney.
UTIES
™ oruY/
TYRE ..
BUILT 01\\
/cimrcX
PRIACIPLL/
&
V
iz
<«
03
**w
hy
Jh*
Cy
:w
£>
<r
o
&
\ "IIIIIIIIIIIIIIBI" *£s-!'
x oi * >
x
m
j /ILVERTOWh
/ CUBBED e
279 GEORGE f r
) /YDf\EY
X
gsd
Shave with a PLUM !
The blade of a “ PLUM ” is the finest silver steel,
and we put the right shaving edge on every one
before it goes out to the buyer. Being practical
hairdressers we know how to.
10/6
Post Free.
The C. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at night.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
Uhe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
TOOK OOT EVERY WRINKLE
IN THREE NIGHTS.
London Woman's Remarkable Transformation. Other Women Try the
Same Plan. One Lady says Her Skin Is Smooth • H
as a Young Girl's, and Adds,
“I AM 50 YEARS OLD.”
1
'mm
' • 'v.v-r ..- JfpOjS
BEFORE TREATMENT. AFTER TREATMENT.
1000 TREATMENTS ABSOLUTELY FREE.
These photographs clearly indicate the awful change that wrinkles wake in a woman’s face. Notice how, with
wrinkles gone, years seem to roll away as though under the power of a magic si ell.
From wrinkles, ugliness to fair, soft beauty in three I
nights. Such was the marvellous transformation
wrought when the hand of modern science touched the
wrinkled face of Harriett Meta. From a humdrum exist-
ence she is, to-day, the talk of two continents. She is as
famed for her beauty on the fashionable and exclusive
resorts of Paris as on the quiet streets of her own town.
It was Harriett Meta’s rare good fortune to make a
wonderful discovery for which others have long been
seeking in vain. Previously she had tried everything
that Science and ingenuity could suggest, in a desperate
effort to rid herself of the defacing lines, fnrrovvs and
wrinkles that were steadily robbing her of all youth and
beauty.
Beauty Specialists, Face Massage, Masks, Creams and
Steaming Pots had all failed in rapid succession, and her
wrinkles seemed deeper than ever.
One day she took matters in her own hands, and
evolved a simple process of her pwn. ; The effect was
startling. Even one night brought astounding results.
Two nights found wrinkles practically gone, and the third
treatment—three nights in all—and her skin was as
smooth and clear as a child’s.
From what this discovery has done for Harriett Meta,
and from what other ladies say it has done for them, it
would seem possible that almost any woman, no matter
what the extent or depth of her wrinkles, might have
been removed entirely and for ever by means of this
lucky discovery. For women without number testify to
the marvellous results this simple process has wrought in
their own case.
Mrs. F. G. Ledon, of Portland, writes:—"l am more
than pleased with the results obtained from the use of
j’our Triplex Beauty Treatment. It is most wonderful,
as I have completely removed all my lines and wrinkles
by its use. I cannot thank you enough.”
Mrs. S. Holmgren, of North Duxhury, writeslt
actually seems as if my face had taken another shape.
It has made me look so much younger, and my skin is as
smooth and fair as that of a young girl—and I am 50
years old.”
Three years have passed over the head of this plucky
and lucky woman, and to-day finds her famous as one of
the world’s most noted Beatify Specialists. Women by
the thousand, and of every class and nation—even ladies
of the European nobility—have consulted her to learn'
her marvellously simple and ingenious method by which
she made her wrinkles go and youthful charm return.
Many hundred thousand women have written to her
about her discovery, and despite her social obligations,,
prompt attention is given to every letter. She is making
thousands of women happy by helping them regain the
charms they have lost through trouble, worry and
ill-health.
We are glad to announce that arrangements have been
made with this famous Beauty Specialist whereby, for the
next-ten days, 1000 of her Beauty Treatments for the re-
moval of wrinkles will be offered absolutely free to ladies.
Readers of the Sydney Bulletin should not hesitate to
take prompt advantage of this generous offer. It may
never be repeated. Thousands of her treatments have
been sold in every corner of the globe for 21s. Simply
use the Coupon and YOU may obtain it free. Do not
delay, but write to-day and address your letter to Harriett
Meta, Depart. 5110, 143 Great Portland Street, London
W., Eng. Your letter will receive prompt attention.
Wrinkles Full Guinea
Treatment
FREE;
Cut out this Coupon to-day and mail it to the
noted Beauty Specialist, Harriett Meta, Dept. 511 C,
143 Great Portland Street, London W., Eng'. You
will receive full plan for obtaining her world-famous
treatment for removing Wrinkles, value 21s. ABSO-
LUTELY FREE. Good for next 10 days to the
Sydney Bulletin readers.
Insist on your dealer supplying you
with socks, stockings, and underwear
marked
jQvgg
Then you have the finest unshrinkable all-wool hosiery that
can be bought. It isn’t a matter of greater cost.
cost no more than ordinary all-wool wear.
“Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear, for Men. Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock
he can obtain it from his
wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for
“Jason" Booklet and
name of nearest Agent,
to
Jason Hosiery Co„
Leicester, England.
Aas <l>
r
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING


HOTEL DANiELL
(Late imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.TKS
PiKe Brothers, Limited,
fg
Splendid Value in GENUINE
HAND-PLAITED
PANAMA HATS.
Delightfully Cool and a Luxury to Wear.
The Plaiting and Color Perfect.
215., 255., 305., 355., 425.
Write for our COMMONWEALTH CATALOCUE.
BRISBANE,
Townsville, Toowoomba and London.
dfsg
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
APPOINTMENT
dfs
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
gd
IN BANANALAND
The Tory is the worst prophet in the
world, and when he prophesies disaster if the
world gets out of the old, deep rut, he beats his
own record. The Brisbane Courier lately fore-
told a huge deficit and frightful embarrassment if
the State didn’t get better terms from the Com-
monwealth. But already it begins to hedge.
For instance : “ With the help of the Lands
and Railway Departments, which show a healthy
expansion, the Treasurer will be able to face the
shortage from Federal sources much more calmly
than was exp. cted.” That represents the second
stage. When the third is reached the Courier
will say that it was always in favor of the present
arrangement, which it helped to carry into effect
in the teeth of bitter opposition.
“Gidgee” on the wisdom of trying to live
“ white ” :
“Prodigal” and “Magee” are right about the dis-
appearance of the Chinese cook from most West Queens-
land towns. I have known Charleville for years, and can
vouch that all the “labor" pubs there employ white
cooks, leaving the “champagne swilling palaces” to the
yellows. At the same time, the owners of the “cham-
pagne ” pubs are probably as much in earnest with regard
to the “ white ” scheme as the labor people themselves.
These latter boycott Chinese cooks. Yet in Charleville,
in Roma and Cunnamulia the Chinese, Hindoo and
Syrian storekeepers and hawkers wax fat through the
patronage of the white workers. And I take it that they
patronise these discolored storekeepers b' cause, living
like pigs and employing no hands, the latter can afford
to undersell the “white” stores. Mr. Bung must not
encourage the yellow cook ; but when they can save a
few pence themselves by encouraging Ah Chow or Ahmed
Dam, White Australia can look after itself ! Can they
wonder that the people who patronise the “ champagne ”
pubs guffaw at their inconsistency, and sa v they would
just as soon be all black as piebald any day?
“ Itan ” : It used to be first the timber-
getter and then the settler; of late years,
especially in North Queensland, it has been the
timber-getter first and then the devil whose other
name is the speculator. The fine belt of table-
land country has been most unfortunate in the
men who h ive rushed it. First, there was the
timber vandal as well as the genuine getter ; then
came the bird murderer ; then the land-grabber,
who was allowed to take up land carrying timber
of great market value when it was officially sup-
posed to have been cut out. After some agitation
the Government consented to this land being
settled —which meant grabbed indiscriminately.
In one place there are 30 blocks, which are being
deliberately held till the railway snorts at the
holders’ impudence. The trouble is that the idle
grabbers are benefiting by the easy terms
which were designed for the industrious poor
man. Payments are one-fortieth of the purchase
money during the first 20 years and the balance at
the end of that period. They need only spend
about £5O on their blocks, and they can get a
transferable lease at once, and, by paying up the
remainder of the purchase price, they can free-
hold the land. All they actually need do in the
direction of improvements is to get 25 acres of the
scrub down ; then they can leave it to become a
mass of undergrowth and breeder of pests, and
wait for the unearned increment to fatten them.
It is time the Queensland Government seriously
looked into the scandal. The unconditional selec-
tion is as rotten as Jack Robertson’s Free Selec-
tion Act was in N.S.W. ; and the stench of that
law can still be smelt.
“Politicus”: Be par (B. o/l/’ll) con-
cerning certain Queensland Labor members having
“jettisoned their anti-borrowing principles.” The
Queensland Labor party has never had any real
anti-borrowingprinciples : the Northern men have
for years past supported every loan bill brought
forward even under the disastrous financial
regime of the old Philp crowd. The only section
of the platform bearing on the question simply
restricts the use of loan money to “reproductive
purposes,” and approves rather vaguely of a sink-
ing fund. The party is just as loose and careless
on financial matters as the McGowenites in
N.S.W., and its interpretation of the “ using of
loan money for reproductive purposes ’’ will prob-
ably prove just as broad, not to say sloppy. It is
deplorable that no member of the party ever talks
finance on the platform, there being a kind of con-
sensus in the party that finance is one of those
things that don’t matter much. So if the Kid-
Philp proposes to borrow £20,000,000 and spend
it in Labor districts, the Labor protest against
the borrow wouldn’t disturb the slumbers of the
most wakeful wild-cat.
A DEAL.
MCTAGGERT : “ Hoo much d’ye charrge for your new teeth?"
DENTIST : “ Ten shillings each."
MCTAGGERT: “ Awed, I ha’e twa second-hand ones that Ah want talkin' oot — an’ ye can ha’e
the twa for twa shillin’.”
Prickly pear has spread about as far north
in Bananaland as it cat; get. There is now a fine
patch of it at Somerset, on Cape York Peninsula.
Brisbane has.just knocked out its town-
hall loan proposals ’ by a respectable majority.
The Mayor, who was grievously disappointed, has
since announced that “a wave of remorse is now
sweeping over those who voted against the pro-
posal.” Remorse is a new name for what the vic-
torious rooster does when he gets on a fence and
crows his hardest.
The Bananaland Railway Department has
been wrestling with a nightmare. For 12 miles
the Cairns railway, which cost £1,400,000, climbs
up the mountain side whenever it isn’t busy
creeping around the cliffs which overhang the
Barron River, 700 ft. or so underneath ; and always
there are portions of the mountain slipping away.
This wet season the falling portions have been
larger and more frequent'than usual. The other
day one of the lumps of falling mountain took
with it a part of a permanent and reproductive
tunnel, and the efforts of a large gang of men to
remove the debris have been mostly unavailing
because they have been interfered with by other
portions of the peregrinating Alp. It is re-
markable that no serious accidents have yet
happened on this length". Fate, or chance, or
luck has so decided that when portion of the per-
manent and reproductive line dropped into the
Barron Gorge the train was standing at.the pre-
vious station, or had just gone by, or had not
arrived, or had stopped to cool a hot box, or had
pulled up to let the passengers view the panorama
or something. Anyhow, the train was always
somewhere else when the mountain let go, which
was a good thing for the train. And now Paget,
Minister for Railways, has concluded that the
deputationists who asked him six months ago to
build a railway from Port Douglas to Mount
Molloy, as an additional means of egress for the
Chillagoe-Etheridge-Herberton district, were not
the extravagant asses he took them to be.
When the Bottom Drops Out.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the Froth’s on the top of the Boom
We live like a lord in a palace ;
With never a sigh on our soul
We’d dance up a jig on the gallows;
The thunders may threaten and roll.
We’re daunted no particle by them,
In musical revels we troll,
And debtors and duns we defy them ;
Our Care’s “up a tree,” and our Life is a spree.
And we worry no whit for the shadows that
loom—
Till the Bottom drops out of the Boom !
When the Froth’s on the top of the Boom
The liquor flows freely and kindly ;
There’s cash if you will, and there’s “ tick ” if you
choose,
And things ripple gaily and blindly ;
The World is a Basin of Booze,
We care not a curse for Hereafter ;
The gods of our day are the Jews
Whose loans are the springs of our laughter ;
And he who will tipple may see the red ripple
Of Joy in the Land that is stranger to Gloom—
Till the Bottom drops out of the Boom !
When the Bottom drops out of the Boom,
The Land that was chirpy and cheerful,
It holdeth its bibulous head,
And tasteth the cup that is tearful;
With Sorrow and Shame is it wed,
In sackcloth and ashes it weepeth,
And bitter.and black is its bread,
And hard is the bed where it slecpeth ;
For headache and sorrow will come on the morrow
To him who forgetteth the coming of doom
When the Bottom drops out of the Boom.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbank, January 14, 1910.
My Dkar Thargominoah,—
At the meeting of the congregation of All
Saints’ Church last Thursday evening the resigna-
tion demanded of the Rev. Douglas Price by the
Archbishop loosed the flames of wrath. A pro-
test is to be handed to his Grace by a deputation,
which appears likely to consist of the entire con-
gregation. As far as I can learn its form will be
of the stand-and-delivjer order. In fine, it will say
this : Either we will sit in the English Church
as we conceive the English Church, or we
will form a free church of our own where we can
hearken to practical Christianity in accordance
with modern intelligence, and you can go hang ;
also you can go minus the loaves and fishes which
your digestion demands. The gathering of the
congregation had the true Australian feeling.
“Why,” asked an elderly churchman, “should
the time not come [perhaps it has come] when we
shall be able to found an Australian Church, in
which we may, if we please, do away with the whole
of the 39 Articles?” (Gigantic applause.) I don’t
know what the 39 Articles, are ; but, judging by
the cheering, they are 38 too many. As an ordi-
nary, every-day heathen, it seemed to me, my
dear, that if there are many more similar meetings
in the diocese the main wrangle will concern the
position of the tenant of Bishopsbourne rather
than that of All Saints’ rectory.
Someone suggested that if his Grace had looked
upon the action of the rector with his theological
telescope to his blind eye, the slight absent-
mindedness would, like Nelson’s, have saved
much trouble and done good rather than harm.
Anyhow, he will now be called upon to read
through the longest church petition ever pre-
sented in this State, and listen to a deputation
whose arguments are not likely to err upon the side
of lukewarmness.
We are promised another pleasant happening
this year in the shape or form of the Sheffield
choir, which will raise its glad hosanna at the
bidding of the baton of Dr. Harriss (two s’s or
there will be murder). The choir will come to us
by way of America.
The Foxton couple, having shaken the dust of
the Priory from their soles, are busy getting
Bulimba House (the first stone residence built in
Queensland) into shipshape. There is enough
land for the Colonel to drill his men when he isn't
pruning roses ; and when he is pruning roses he
can still keep his mind on drill by recalling the
old convict days with which the house was asso-
ciated. It isn’t a pleasant thought, of course ;
but, then, even a colonel has no right to be joyous
all the time.
Professor Gibson and his missis have taken
Hinemoa, at New Farm;; and from there the lady
can look down upon the seats of the mighty what
time hubby hammers wisdom into the under-
grads.
While I am on the subject of our most exclusive
suburb, let me break it to you gently that Haw-
stead the mighty is fallen from its recent high
estate, and will, at a not-far-off period, open its
doors to the hash-house client.
According to letters received from Mrs. Jim
Robertson, who, with son and daughter, is in the
land of Stars and Stripes, the top-notch item in
the way of fur along Boston way is our good old
Queensland grey ’possum, worn as stole, toque
and muff, upon dark green and brown cloth. For
the rig-out as much as £2O is cheerfully paid.
Mrs. Jim declares it looks fine. Here, where
’possum is to be had at so many shillings, we turn
up our noses at him.
A local Mary Ann has made a record for a
day’s flitting. Starting overnight with a slight
difference of opinion with “the missus,"’ she
arose with the dawn, and departed to another
place, where she was received with open arms
and morning tea. Here she graciously cooked
the breakfast, but afterwards announced her
determination to leave, owing to the complexion
of the cat, or something. Dropping into a regis-
try office about 11 a.m., she was fought for by two
frenzied women, and, choosing one. went home
with her to lunch. Half an hour after the meal
had been disposed of, her old habit overcame her,
and, without giving any reason for her sudden
dislike to the mansion and its occupants, .she
just went. With much forethought, she had kept
the second would-be employer’s address, and
dropped in there in time to peel the vegetables
and prepare dinner. As no bell rang at the pre-
scribed hour, however, the family went to inves-
tigate. Selina Jane had vanished.
How our good-looking men do fall away from
us, to be sure ! Colonel Reade, of whom we are
vastly proud, leaves for Canada next week, where
he is due for some anti-Japanese training, and
where he is like to be in great request. He plays
a masterly game of bridge.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
There is one thing, anyhow, that Private
Enterprise can do better than the State —make
profits. The Government took over the Mount
Elliott railway recently, and the first thing that
happened was a 50 per cent, reduction in fares.
The Northern Tories who run the Kid-Philp
Administration don’t altogether lack humor.
When the Assembly broke up, the other day, the
Government Whips were presented with sundry
ornamental trifles, and the Premier also received
a presentation of a pipe. The decoration con-
ferred on Kidston was made by the hands of
Robert Philp !
Western squatters, who got one extension
of lease on account of the big drought, have just
tried to use prickly pear as a lever to raise
another. They promised they would tackle the
pest—where it wasn’t much of a pest. “ Thanks,”
said Denham—“thanks for mighty little. But
we’d rather trust to closer settlement.”
Died in Sydney last week Walter Reid,
founder of the Rockhampton firm of Walter Reid
and Co., Ltd. Anything from 30 to 50 years ago
he was one of the best-known men in Central
Queensland ; then he.left off the personal chase of
the customer’s elusive sixpence, went to England
and married, came back to Australia and squatted,
and finally settled in Sydney and died vety
gradually.
State Blights is making -the usual hash df
the cattle-tick trouble. The Ma State has been
uppercutting the disastrous parasite very well.
But, meantime, the northern State is pretty well
letting the tick have a free run ; so, no matter
what is done in the South, there is a constant risk
from over the border. Cattlemen are now beginning
to realise that, if the plague is ever to be bumped
effectually, the work must be done on a concerted
—which is to say, Federal-plan. So, despite the
continual cursing of the Sydney press, the demand
for more of “ Fisher’s tyranny ” is getting keener
—which is a healthy sign.
“ Niser Orga ” : Evidently there are
women doing just about every kind of strenuous
toil in Australia. The lady I add to the list has
a sugar farm near Mackay (Q.). I got an intro-
duction to her about the middle of last crushing
season, while I was having a stroll along a cane-
girdled road. Matilda, Billy and Sore Feet were
my particular chums at the time, and the castles
I was constructing in the air were shattered by a
feminine shriek inquiring whether I was looking
for work. Of course I was, and said so. On
accepting an invitation to approach, I was sur-
prised to see that the lady was cutting
cane. After a little parleying, I agreed to
cut with her for 355. a week and found.
The only condition I had to fulfil was that I had
to keep level with her when cutting. I lasted till
the following night, when I told her that I was a
cane-cutter, not a cutter and foot-runner com-
bined.


mm
mm
.
'
* • •'
p——
r \ ,
M
€
/.
ii ■' .
mi
m
mm
r
m.
Up
tvp
'
K
.
ms
r>
■*
m
■
it!
,
. ' v
*
* *
r;
si
ill
i
■
. !
lIS
V>>
m.
earns
■ ...»
• I 1
t t
V~7
A
\' v - ! ‘ ' . • \ - ,
■#.
; ...
1
in
&
:
w m.
«*V Li
$# e-
‘ H
0 f'l
; i
e «
results
* •
You fill fn\i neighbours, frieq&s, aijd relative everywhere iestil
A \a
• 09 *
£?
3
* *


CLEANSED
WITH
5F5
t
CUTICURA
SOAP
Means skin health and bodily
purity in infancy and childhood
and freedom, in the majority of
cases, from torturing, disfiguring
affections of the skin and scalp in
after life. Those who value a
clear skin, soft, white hands, a
clean, wholesome scalp and live,
glossy hair will find that Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment, realizes every expectation.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la Chaussee
U’Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India,
B. K. Paul, Calcutta; China, Hong Kong Drug Co.;
Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Tokio; So Africa, Lennon,
Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., 133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
03~ Post-free, 32-page Cuticura Book, "How to
Preserve, Purify and Beautify the Skin and Hair."
THE FOLLY OF DRUG
TAKING.
Do not take tonics for nervous breakdown. They will
spur your already-exhausted nervous system to further
effort —but as they give no compensation for the further
consumption of nerve force, you must suffer a reaction
which will leave you in a worse condition than before.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown can
be repaired, and that is by feeding the brain and nerve
centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form. Auti-
iieurasthin does this, and actually builds up the nervous
system by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
neuralgia, headaches, languor and irritability, send to
the wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane, Q., enclosing
9d. in stamps, and a sample of Antineurasthin, with
pamphlet dealing with nervous troubles, will be for-
warded to you by return of post. [1
MAKE MONEY
EASILY.
T\7"E can show you how to start a
“ " profitable business in your spare
time at home, without interfering with
your ordinary pursuits, and gradually
develop it to
such an extent
as to warrant
you putting
your whole
time to it. Suit-
able for either
sex. No ex-
perience or
capital neces-
sary.
Send stamp
to-day for free
particulars.
SUCCESS
CERTAIN
THE
THE WENFORD CO.
1 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
BY PURCHASING The Lone Hand each
month you encourage Australian Art and
Literature. It costs Sixpence.
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying 1 since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. KLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
S Wynyard Street. SYDNEY*
F:
Mil
mm
n
mm.
m
pr
Hi
»*
or w
In Every Home
constipation is a recurring complaint that comes sooner or
later,; and visits more or less often. It is simple, yet
dangerous if allowed to continue, or the habit be permitted,
for most irregularities have their origin in constipation—
and many diseases too.
California Syrup of Figs is the natural remedy, and one
that should find a permanent place in every home —ready at
the right moment to help in the right way.
It is suited to all the family, children as well as adults.
The former like it because of its pleasing taste. It is not
a purgative that weakens, but a laxative that cleanses,
soothes, strengthens, and leaves the organs in a fit condition
to perform their necessary functions well. It has already
found a place in millions of homes throughout the world, and
has been endorsed and approved by the medical profession.
No home should be without it.
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP OF FIGS
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE”
You must ask for California Syrup of Figs and look for the
trade mark in blue, also name of the California Fig Syrup Co.,
which appears on every package of the original and genuine.
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION. 1910
O. & Q. 8002
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on
Face-plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
SMOKERS!!
Have you ruined your nerves,
enfeebled your heart, destroyed
your brain with tobacco poison ?
If so, regain health & strength
by taking
“SMOKURE” TABLETS.
1 Every medical man condemns the vice of
smoking because they see the destruction
of life through tobacco or nicotine poison.
The number of youths aud men diseased
in mind and body through excessive
tobacco and cigarette .smoking is fearful.
“ SMOKUBE’ ’ Tabb-ts are the antidote.
They destroy the craving for tobacco,
health follows. Send stamps for free par-
ticulars to the
Nicoto-Manla Tablet Co.,
75 Wentworth Court,
Elizabeth Street
Sydney
fsg
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Famous Schublcr Carburetor
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Aoetylene Burner House).
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
&
n
-zrftni
mam
-
rIDELITAS
mm
01
A« APdwl'lSli ft'- 1 %i»
9S
"/A, >*•'
’J?
•“?* £>-
r?
Oi <5 .7 r»
WMfcgZi]
r.WOLFFaSOHN
•Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modern Science
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insuflciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on l7o’S. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Y.D. A.C. : “ Pauper’s Lament ” is just the old,
old teaching- b.v which the Church has for ages helped to
keep the poor contented : “It will be made up to you in
Heaven." And the Church apparently doesn’t know the
address of Heaven. At early morning service it points
upward when it speaks of Paradise, and downward when
it mentions Tophet. At evening service, the woild
having done a half-turn in the interval, it should point
downward for Paradise and upward for Tophet. But it
doesn’t Bellerive : A legal one this week :
KING’S EVIDENCE.
In the slums of London
Four evil men
Conspired together in an
Old time-worn den ;
One who declined in treason
To play a part
Was denounced a traitor
And stabbed thro’ the heart;
A poor coster who rented
A room in the Den
Put the officers of Justice
On the trail of the men ;
When the assassin who
Dealt the fatal thrust with the knife
Turned king’s evidence
And saved his own life.
Kowhai: Not going to throw any clods at Overell
for advising Brisbane against getting a town hall on
pawnshop principles.... Marcus Flabiass: Try A. C.
Kowlandson, Bookstall Co., Sydney. The idea looks
pretty good Ivan Drew: Address, please Watch-
man : Now look on page 9, B. ii9/12/’lO, and you’ll see
what kind of a liar you are.. ..B.R. (Q.): Here it is, with
two trilling alterations:
A LABOR POEM.
The sun glints on the green leaves,
And the breezes shake the boughs,
And in the meadows browsing
Are our old milking cows;
They’re fat and old and lazy,
And their eyes look weird and hazy,
And they almost drive me crazy,
And I call them d d old sows;
For I have to milk them early
As I squeeze the drops so pearly
From their old forms so burly
I can hear old Hayseed rouse ;
So yoke up Pet and Spot and Mate,
And get the cream away,
Or it will soon be out of date
And he’ll stop it off my pay.
....Ben T.: Humor of “Monday" too forced Marcus
F. : Inferior N.A.J.: Sorry both unsuitable N.L.
(V.): No E.B. (S.A.): The lady had false teeth—in seven
verses. Right! Equine: The Religious Editor shied
at it, and hurriedly borrowed threepence and took to
drink F. McK. (V.): Four lines will be sufficient:
He ran to the fowlhouse and swearing most frightfull
He struck at and knocked out an innocent hen,
And dragged out and kicked at the rooster so spitefull,
Saying : “ Curse you, you’ll soon be as lazy’s the Men.”
G. : Unsuitable. Can you explain why the poet, when
he strikes a nice, restful locality, invariably fires off some-
thing like this:
O fair Wahoo ! I fain would rest
When earthly span is run
Where the fleecy breakers surge and roll
Beneath the setting sun.
It is an pdds-on chance that, in years to come, a red-
faced man in a fancy vest will buy the spot and put up a
summer hotel. In that case, the buried poet’s bones will
be dug up by a prosaic laboring person, given a gruesome
paragraph in the Evening Bloodstain, and classified by a
doctor as the property of an aboriginal or convict. It is
safer to be buried in a large cemetery and lie comfortably
under an immense tombstone with your virtues and
honors carved on it T.E.S. : You are the most pas-
sionate patriot to date. One whoop:
Australia! Australia ! I love you ! I love you I
I kiss your dear soil in my passion asthoie ;
Oh God that my arms could encircle around you
And keep you, my love-land, from harm evermore.
Fortunately you cool off in the following verses. No
poem could go on like that for long without flying to
pieces and hurting someone. So far as we know, you are
the only contributor who has expressed a desire to hug a
continent. Why not practise on something smaller for
astart? TryTasmmia M.E. (V.): The sundowner is
only interesting when he gets this off:
All places are alike to me,
For none of ’em I fret;
If any’s better than the last
I haven’t found it yet.
Through life the top dog’s worryings
Is making others blue ;
But the bloke who carries his own swag
Is the best man of the two.
... Rally: The verdict is guilty M.O. : Even the
singing of the Murphys can’t save them .. .G.A.H. : Too
monotonous Wonbobra : “The Mountains Shall Give
Peace ” is a kindly poem, handicapped by your difficult
fist. The best we can do with one line is “ Freedom from
Uncle that canoes strife.” It might be translated thus :
“ Strict avoidance of the pawnshop ferries a man out of
trouble.” Can’t make either version fit in, so the whole
thing goes overboard... .Dido : Hopeless M.P.: Sorry,
unsuitable I.S.M. : Cheerful little rhyme, but too
slight Esme : Waiting-room sketch too discursive....
C. W.: “ This effort being my first, you are at liberty to
make such corrections;as you think fit.” Have read the
effort and had the fit F.E. (Sydney): Unsuitable
E.M.L. : You appeal:
Accept these verse even now
And I will evermore bless thee.
Inspected the verses and decided that the bribe wasn’t
big enough.. ..Budgeree : Very pathetic and unsatisfac-
tory. Needs to be told briefly in two or three bars with
a whisky and soda accompaniment... Bungee : Rambles
too much.. ..Swan : Slab of obviously counterfeit grief.
. .J.K.M.F. : Tripe to hand ; send along the onions....
Joe B. : Reserved prose sketch for second reading. Verses
unsuitable The Outlaw: The cattle poem is rough,
but we have cut out two verses :
For what I have got I once had to graft,
And my bank account now shows a big overdraft;
I’m watched by the auctioneer now in the town
Since I bought up a big mob and cattle went down.
When you meet the Bank Manager there isn’t a doubt
If you have a big overdraft you look down your snout,
You’ll fix it no doubt, so be of good cheer ;
But you can’t wipe it off by living on beer.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.C.C.: Drawing was left at the post. The joke had a
run for its money, but was beaten bv two noes .. .Alfred
A. : You “ cut it out of a trade journal,” and had a block
made of it (without acknowledging the trade journal, we
expect), and now you want to sell it to us. If somebody
stole your goods, and we bought them knowing that they
were stolen, what sort of remarks would you pass?
“ Giddap ” : Is the wood-mouse a mar-
supial? He has all the characteristics of the
species—the powerful hind-quarters, long heavy
tail, short fore-legs, and the sharp-pointed coun-
tenance with its short, horny ears. Furthermore,
he doesn’t, as a rule, travel on all-fours, but pro-
ceeds in small hops or jumps, standing erect, like
a miniature kangaroo. Met him frequently last
winter, whilst splitting “hull” oak in the Melton
(Vic.) district, and I was much struck with his
warm winter garment, a thick furry coat. Have
heard him called a kangaroo-mouse. Whether a
marsupial or no, he’s the gamest thing of his size
I’ve run across in the bush ; and I’m willing to
back him to the extent of a full demijohn. I bar
nothing—bird, beast or bunyip.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD."
MU,\
Aoua^i
YXTERY "A
■ , ■ And
1 IIRT/i
g<ra
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each.
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers of Mirth and Mystery.
LIQUID
PISTOL.
37-
Post Free
Ten liquid shots at one filling'. In many circum-
stances as effective as a revolver, and not so
dangerous. Will nonplus a savag-e dog, and drive
off a persistent man. Useful for unprotected
women, cyclists, cashiers and nightwatchmen. Just
as amusing as a toy. Solidly made of polished
nickel, well finished. Very reliable. Easy to load.
THE
“JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, closed, and,
to the amazement ot your friends upon re-opening,
the matches have disappeared. A great joke on
those always begging matches. Show them the
box “ empty." The next moment you may help
yourself to a match. Strongly made of polished
nickel. Price, with full directions, 7d. Post Free.
THE GREAT COIN
TRICK.
The coin vanishes at will in the
most puzzling way, yet turns
up again in unexplainable man-
ner from any part of performer’s
body, or even among the audience.
Bcf. Post Free.
“ PICKITOUT.”
The New Three-Oard Trick. The
performer can always spot the
ace, yet the same card, if pointed
out to the audience, is always the
wrong: one. 7d. Post Free.
New Folding Razor sirup.
Superior quality leathers. Splen-
didly compact for travelling-. The
famous “Lion’’brand of Torrey
& Co. (America). Write for this
grand line. 1/11 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOYEITY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
Also at 111 KING STREET
& 25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
oonocj
NES7ER
LEAK.
RO OFING*
CONGO stands unrivaled as the most durable, complete and satisfactory Ready
Roofing for all kinds of buildings and for all purposes.
Its peculiar and special coating on both sides makes it absolutely non-decaying.
Congo is unaffected by climatic changes, weather, heat or cold. It will not
leak nor rust, crack, shrink or swell.
It is as pliable after years of hard service on your building as when laid.
It is easy to lay, inexpensive and satisfactory.
A Sample, will give you a good idea of what Congo Roofing 13 like.
We send it free on request.
Use Congo Damp Course to damp-proof foundations and cellar floors. Sample free.
*nvv.™- C 'w DELM ? R ’ Australian Representative, P.O. Box 1740, Sydney, N.S.W.
Biabant'&Po y R^K OS ' (S ; v ,? r ! e '' ) ’ Ltd " Sydney ; Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd., Melbourne }
AHeUbU • Mui B r is £ a,le > Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton ; Harrold, Colton & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide , Millar s Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ; William Hart & Sons, Launceston.
■
%
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
And Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. 14^
THE RIGHT RIFLE FOR THE YOUNGEST BOY.
Parts attached to action itself, making it very simple. Weighs 2%. pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will also shoot .22 Long
R. F. and .22 Short R. F.
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens - Pope Cata-
logues. [6
Don’t be a ‘Wisher
Some men keep on wishing they had an Onoto Self-filling
Pen so hard—that if the pen grew with the wish they
couldn’t see it all.
The Onoto does not leak. It FILLS ITSELF in a flash
without any filler. A perfectly-balanced fountain pen—British
made throughout.
Quit wishing—Get an
Self-Filling - . n
Safety Fountain 11 wll
Brice 12/- and upwards at all stationers,
stores, jewellers, etc.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free
on application to Thos. De La
Rue & Co., Ltd., 259 Bunhill
Row, E.C., or the Austra-
lasian Representative,
Norman Baker,
50 York Street,
Sydney.
sdfg
IMPORTANT
For those
who requiie
a larger pen
with a very
flexible nib,a
special model
the new G
—has been put on the market.
It is exceptional value for the
money. Try this new Gat
your stationer’s. Also ask him
for Onoto Ink, the best for
fountain and all other pens.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Cable Address : RUSPOLI, LONDON.
Amethyst arv
rings, £2 15
• Peirl Ear-
per pair.
Gold Art Locket, set
4 Diamonds, £1 is.
Pearl and Amethyst
Brooch, £3 3s.
Amethyst & Pearl or Coral
and Pearl Brooch, £1 Is.
sfd
-Amethyst & Diamond
Pendant, £lO 10s.
Same price with
Opals or Peridots.
Ruby ci
Sapphire &
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
£1 15s.
New Pearl
and Peridot
Earrings,
£2 lbs.
per pair.
Gold charm Crystal
Bowl, 12s. 6d.
FROM ENGLAND. Pa y your Duty and purohs se Cheaper and
Belter than you are now doing. Write tor Catalogue containing 6.000
lllustrations, Post Free to any part of the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
Will Rn drape ™ BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, 1s-
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Kelly Gang, True Story.,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Prank
Goteh, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, J/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3,6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin. .
Above prices include postage to any address.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
»
/.
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !"
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling- the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another, start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
•no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2,6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne ,


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
The Illawarra Steam
Coal 8 Coke Company,
LIMITED
(To be Incorporated under the New South Wales Com-
panies Act. 1899, whereby the liability of a shareholder
is limited to the amount of his share).
CAPITAL - - £ 150,000
Divided into 150,000 Shares of £1 each.
FIRST ISSUE - - £lOO,OOO
OF WHICH
25,000 Shares will be issued as Fully-Paid-Up to the
Vendors (the present members of the Avondale Mining
Syndicate) as Payment for the Assets to be sold to the
Company as hereinafter set out.
THE BALANCE OF 75,000 SHARES ARE NOW
OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION, PAYABLE
2s. 6d. PER SHARE ON APPLICATION,
2s. 6d. PER SHARE ON ALLOTMENT,
AND THE BALANCE AS REQUIRED IN CALLS NOT
EXCEEDING 2s. 6d. PER SHARE, AT INTERVALS
OF NOT LESS THAN THREE MONTHS.
50,000 Shares are HELD IN RESERVE.
The Company may proceed to allotment when
25,000 Shares have been applied for.
Provisional Directors:
SIR JAMES GRAHAM, M.D.
HENRY HOWELL (Director and Sydney Manager of
Howard Smith Co., Ltd.).
THEO. J. MARKS (Messrs. Robertson and Marks,
Architects, Sydney).
A. W. GILLES (Merchant, Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney).
ROBERT CHEVIN GUEST (Shipbroker, Bridge Street
Sydney).
Secretary: CHARLES E. BIRD.
Bankers: BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Solicitor : FRANCIS G. CLARK.
Auditors : McKENNY, TAYLER & CQ._
Registered Office:
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The Company is being formed to acquire certain
j valuable coal properties on the South Coast, and to carry
I on the business of Colliery Proprietors and Coke Manu-
facturers. \
Very favorable reports on the Company’s propertie s
, have been made by two leading mining engineers,
i Copies of these reports may be perused at the office of
the Provisional Secretary.
Copies of the Company’s Prospectus may be obtained
at the olfioa of the Provisional Secretary,
or from any Registered Broker, or at the office of the
Company’s Solicitor or Auditors.
Applications for Shares may be forwarded to the Bank
of New South Wales on the forms accompanying the
Prospectus.
For Sale.
£HEAP, SECOND-HAND 9-H.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
Ee JOSEPH HASKINS.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
the 31st day of October 1910 made in the matter
1 of Joseph Jarrett Haskins deceased Haskins v,
Haskins 1910 H. No. 1055. An inquiry is directed
'in tiie following terms namely An Inquiry
j whether Joseph Haskins one of the children of
1 the Testator Joseph Jarrett Haskins is living or
dead and if dead when he died and if .he died
after the death of the said Testator (which
occurred on the 29th day of October 1895) who
by bequest as next of kin or otherwise are now
entitled to the share of the said Joseph Haskins
i in the said Testator’s Residuary Estate and in
what shares and proportions and who are his legal
personal representatives.
NOTICE is hereby given that the said Joseph
Haskins if living or if he died since the 29th day
of October 1895 bis legal Personal Representative
and all persons claiming under the above
! mentioned Inquiry is or are by his or their
I Solicitors on or before the 31st day of March 1911
to come in and prove his or their claims at the
i Chambers of Mr. Justice Joyce and Mr. Justice
j Eve Room 689 at the Royal Courts of Justice
! Strand London or in default thereof he or they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Monday the 17th day ,bf April
.1911 at 12.30 o’clock in the afternoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and' adjudi-
cating upon the Claims.
Dated this 30th day of November, 1910.
RICH. JOHN VILLIERS,
Master,
■ for Master Hewlett.
NOTE. —The abovenamed Joseph Haskins
went to live in Australia in 1883 with his wife
whose maiden name was Lily Phipps and infant
, daughter and his two brothers Edmund and
1 Hartley Haskins. They first went to Gympie in
Queensland and lived there for six months. In
or about October 1887 the said Joseph Haskins
went to Sydney and lived there or at Camden for
about 14 months. In the years 1888 or 1889 the
said Joseph Haskins returned to Gympfie where
Ihe had “to go into hospital for cancer. He was
discharged from the hospital as incurable and he
then left Gympie with the intention of making
liis way to the Gulf of Carpentaria. He has not
been heard of since this date and it is believed
that lie died soon afterwards in the same year.
GRIBBLE, ODDIE, SINCLAIR, ROWLATT ;
& JOHNSON, v ; 1
88 Bedford Row, London, Englartd,
/ i .' Solicitors for the Plaintiff. I
Y°UNG AUSTRALIA, and Bo’ys and Gfirls’ own
I ■ Newspaper, invites the Submission if STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. “FARMER AND
j SETTLER” OFFICE, <Jp Kent Street, Sydney.
GHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
) States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Public Notice.
MILLET. MILLET. MILLET.
MELBOURNE, 20th December, 1910.
WE, the undersigned manufacturers, desire to notify
the buyers, growers and broom millet business in
general that, owing to the serious loss during the past
three years through the excessive length ofstalk, we will
refuse to accept as proper value any millet in which the
length of stalk exceeds six (6) inches.
(Signed) THOS. MITCHELL & CO. PPT. LTJD.
ALBERT OATES & CO.
JAMES DALGLEISH.
DAVID DALGLEISH.
Missing; Friends.
IF ERNEST HAYTER HANNAM (JOS.), who left
England in April, 1884, for Adelaide, and who was
there or subsequently known as FRANK HANNAM,
will communicate at once with Commissioner Hay,
69 Bourlce Street, Melbourne, Australia, or to his brother
(DICK) JAMES VICTOR HANNAM, 73 Grove Lane,
Stamford Hill, London, N.E., his father and stepmother
being dead, he will hear of something very much to his
advantage. It is of the utmost importance that, if he is
alive, he should without delay communicate with his
brother.
Should any person see this notice, and can give any
information as to his whereabouts since the year 1889,
when he was in the neighborhood of Singapore (and now
may be in Siam, or back in Australia), perhaps they will
kindly communicate with the aforesaid JAMES VICTOR
HANNAM at the above address.
MARK KEENAN.
IVIARK KEENAN, formerly of Ardgaeneen, Drum-
griffin County, Galway, Ireland, will hear of some-
thing to his advantage by communicating with Messrs.
HOSKING & COOK, Solicitors, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Any information sent to them enabling proof to be made
that the said Mark Keenan is alive or dead, and if alive
which would lead to his discovery, will be appreciated
and recompensed.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: .1. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
AN ABSOLUTE SENSATION,
BIGGER THAN THE BIGGEST PANTOMIME.
The Wonderful Drury Lane Drama, by Cecil Raleigh
and Henry Hamilton,
THE WHIP.
Interpreted by A COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY
Specially Selected by Mr. J. C. Williamson.
PLAN AT .PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLI AMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE IIOYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OU It M rSS GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Palace theatre, Sydney.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEES WEDNESDAYS.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY OF
COMEDIANS,
including MISS GRACE PALOTTA, presenting
THE GIRL PROM RECTOR’S
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28,
The Greatest Comedy Hit in Twenty Years,
SEVEN-DAYS.
Prices—s/-, 3/-, 2/-, ]/- PI in at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE. ARCADIANS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 21,
THE CLARKE and MEYNELL COMIC OPERA CO. in
tihe First Production in Sydney of
T- 0 M JONE S,
A Comic Opera in Three Acts, Founded on
Fielding’s Novel. VV
Box Plan now open at ELVY’S.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station —Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICT U RES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
-[* H E MAORI VILLAGE,
CLONTARF.
('•
MAGGIE PAPAKURA.
WEIRD HAKAS, GRACEFUL POI
DANCES, DELIGHTFUL SINGING.
I W A.
PRICES—ONE SHILLING and SIXPENCE.
STEAMERS—FORT MACQUARIE, 2.15, 2.30, 7.45.
SPIT WHARF (Adams’ Boatshed and Manly side),
AT FREQUENT INTERVALS.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mil, Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
“OUR HEBREW FRIEND,” JULIAN ROSE, Humorist.
SIX AMERICAN DANCERS, Stylish Steppers.
MDLI.E. YETTA, Sensational Queen of Wire Walkers.
THE BLESSINGS, Equilibrists and Balancers.
Continued Success of MR. FRANK HARWOOD,
GODFREY JAMES, HARRY LINDEN,
THE QUEALYS, HILDA LANE,
Anda GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. llarrv Rickards.
BARNOLD’S ANIMAL ACTORS.
COOPER &, LAIT, Musical Comedy Artists.
WOODS & FRASER, Comedy Sketch Artists.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
BABY COPPARD, Clever Child Artist.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —35., 25., Is.
HS
HE LYCEUM ~
.EVERY EYENING AT 8-
imels-Y/edmesdays. Saturdays a«d Holidays at 2 -50.
C PENCER'SIHEATREKOPt <?
J PICTURES
« /?/?£ SVP£K.rOK TO /JLL OT/f£JZS. -a
Popular Prices Plata at Paunos.
MELBOURNE.
-pH EATRE ROYAL,
AN UNDOUBTED POPULAR SUCCESS.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S ENTIRELY NEW
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE GAY GORDONS.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Plans at Allan’s.
Amusements.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
will present the New Version of Hall Caine’s Novel,
THE CHEIS T I A N.
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN as GLORY QUAYLE.
MR. ROY REDGRAVE as JOHN STORM.
" Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3B., 2s. and Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC CO.
in Frederick Melville’s-Great Bedroom Drama,
THE BAD GIRL of THE FAMILY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Reserved Seats, 4/-
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Funny
Pantomime,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
For which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS,
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been organised
such {is has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
UfEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE best WEST’S PICTURES, XHE BKST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterimusb in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
An v Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.4.N.TAIT S
PICTURES
ALL TfIE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices-2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matin6eST-Wednesdaj’, Saturday, All Holidays.
A & N TAIT’S
0 PEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. HILDA.
EVEItV EVENING AT 8.30.
TII E POLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, 1/-, 6d.
IRTHSOLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
w
M ati hees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2.30
CPENCER-SIHeaTRESCOPE(°
J PICTURES
/&> rfßli 3UPER.rO&. TO fU.L OT/fEftS. o
Popular PricesPi.am as Usual.!*
M
AX MAXWELL'S
DRAMATIC BOOM.
EXTENSION OF BRISBANE SEASON.
NEWCASTLE FROM JANUARY 2Sth.
Re-appearance of MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY.
Business Announcements.
ARTISTS. Why mot Exhibit in
| The World’s Art Market
Fourth Annual London Salon,
CORONATION YEAR?
Membership (10s. enti’anceand £1 Is. p,a.) entitles artists
to show three works, one on line. Frames need not ’he
Sent. Particulars from ALLIED ARTISTS’ ASSOCIATION,
LTD., 68 Chancery Lane, London, W.C.
W/i
t r -
S 3
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10/-
| Black, White,
r Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Aroade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [5
** A WL-YOU-WANT.’*
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, BeltspStraps, Harness, Boots, Shoes; Sew*
r> _ w
<-S. Posted.
(Awl, 2
z reel cotton.)
CaTprts, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
gd
I Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and jn
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etp: ■
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout of Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post'tree. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 lor 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), ltd.
| We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
i LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Seasonable
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
L&CHardtmuth’s
KOHINOOR
PENCILS
sfg
sdf
The ‘ Koh-i-noor ” Diamond is no
longer the premier gem—-it has been
outrivalled. But the “ Koh-i-noor ”
Pencil has suffered no such eclipse.
It still stands to-day as superior in
cjuality to other, pencils, as the
Koh-i-noor” Diamond did in its
day to other gems. Try a “ Koh-i-
-noor " Pencil—note how long it lasts,
note ts silken smoothness of touch !
From SUiticmrrs r-c. througlio ■ t
the Wort t.
L & r.. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House,
Ss L;ND3N, ENCIANO.
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
FITS
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Niblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently,
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of recommendation from
Doctors, Clergymen and other persons of the
highest standing-.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE. —Send for very interesting booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. Rocke,
Tompsitt & Co., 292 to 298 Flinders S.t., Melbourne.
THE INKLESS PEN
Writes with Plain Water
gsd
Six Penca
Each
The Inkless Pen with one dip of water will write 200 words.
The nib is of special construction and does not corrode, so that
it lasts very much longer than an ordiuary pen. The writing
is copyable YVheri not in use, the pen turns into the holder
and can be carried in the pocket without risk of leakage. Six
Pence each, 2 for Nine Pence, 3 for One Shilling, posted any
where. The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth Street,_Melb
cyclone ROTARY HAND FAN
CREATES a continuous current
OF COOL WIND
Tho Best' Fan Ever Invented
No trouble or fatigue, as with ordinary
fans. You merely press your thumb and
the bright aluminium blades revolve rapidly,
producing a refreshing stream of cool air. Fan
is strongly made, will last years with ordtuary
care The Union Company,
299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
fg
Prico 1/6 E«ob
Two for 2/6
we pay carriage J
THE MYSTERIOUS PLANCHETTE
PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE
REVEALED
Astonishing Results Unexplainable
Deeply Interesting. Truly Wonderful.
Replies to questions on all subjects, offers
good advice, warus of impending danger.
Well made and packed in a nice box, com-
plete with pencil, printed directions, fortune
chart, &c., for Half-a*Crown,
we ppy carriage. THE UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Mclb.
THE CRYSTALLINE PEN
Only 2/6
sdf
Mover Corrodes Will Wear a Lifetime
Made entirely of Hardened Glass. Writes smoother and more
pleasantly than a metallic pen. A long letter can be written
with one dip of ink. Price Six Pence Each, posted to
*jny address, or Pens for 1/3.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING COMPANY
299 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE.
WHY SUFFER FROM ASTHMA?
ASTHMATITE, the Great Asthma
Remedy, will immediately ease all the
distressing symptoms, stop the choking, dis-
perse the phlegm, build up the system and
ensure sweet sleep. 2/- and 4/- post free. Trial
packet posted for three penny stamps.
H. YOUNGMAN, Witmott Street, Sydney.
r¥IHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
1 HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.


v AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLO BY STATIONERS ANO DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
t MELBOURNE s
TO-DAY
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO, 1,
From birth to 3 month*.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
Menburys Foods
Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., 3sonion, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A MONTHLY GUfDE for everything Aus-
tralinn. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
nitirvellous sixpenn’m th ! ”
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—IV.. V.. VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd.
“ Montserrat
LIME JUICE
is a drink with an interesting flavour ; it is a pure
natural product—not a cbem eal concoction.
Fresh ripe cultivated limes are alone used in
the manufacture of
“MONTSERRAT” LIME JUICE.
SUPPLIED IN TWO FORMS-
Unsweet' ned i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened, Lime Juice Cordial.
gsdf
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF 1 PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
BOONHR J\
31,344
Acres.
Queensland’s Greatest Agricultural Proposition.
O ITUATED in the famous Kingaroy District, at Goomerri Railway Station, right on the Kilkivan Railway Line,
eight and a half hours rail from Brisbane.
Described ,as a plateau or steppe, on the coastal side of the Main Coast Range, about 60 miles from the sea,
807 feet above sea level, with a delightful,climate, well sheltered in winter, yet cool and breezy in summer.
Excellently watered by numerous ever running creeks and large lagoons. Level roads throughout. Free from
pests. Proved drought proof. Ample rainfall of 35*14 inches. The home of the rich Queensland blue grass. Nearly
43% of first-class agricultural land and less than 1% of inferior land, certified by a Government expert. The best
potato, onion, and lucerne soil in Queensland.
Large new hotel on the estate. Butter factory in course of erection. Reserves for school, church, and show
grounds. Motor cars meet every train for inspection. Fares paid from Brisbane to the Estate when inspecting and
when attending the sale, if you purchase.
Subdivided into 172 Farms from 32 to 423 acres •
EXPERT OPINIONS
MR. W. D. LAMB , who was one of the Agricultural Pioneers of the
Darling Downs, where he lias been fanning for 48 years, says:—“The average
quality is exceptionally good. . . . The soil is specially adapted for producing
large crops of lucerne and potatoes. ... I can conscientiously recommend this
country, <fcc.”
MR. DAVID McCULLOCH of “ Roseneath,” Parkes,
N.S.W.f a prominent agriculturist, who will harvest 4,1,00 acres of wheat this
season, says: “ Ridges and flats alike will compare favourably with the richest lauds
of Victoria and N.8.W., and the potentialities for dairying and lamb raising are
practically unlimited,"
MR, PHIL, McGRA TH, Srtr,, who has been 44 years lucerne farming
in Laidley, says:— "l consider the Boonara Flats are exactly similar lucerne soil
. . . The ridges are exceptionally good soil.”
MR, H, RAFF, Surveyor, with 30 years experience of
Queensland, says:—“ I have subdivided many large estates in Southern, Western,
and Northern Queensland . . . Boonara leads them all. Its physical features
combine to make it the finest farming and dairying proposition I have ever seen.”
Mft, J• W, WALDRON, who has had considerable farming experience
on the Tweed Itiver and elsewhere, says : —“ So adaptable for fauns . . . plenty
of permanent water . . . rich alluvial deep soil fiats for lucerne, potatoes, etc.”
To be Sold by Auction at TllC HOTEL (on the Estate) on
TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, 7th and Bth MARCH, 1911, at 2 o’clock p.m.
Write TO-DA Y for Illustrated Plans to —
ISLES, LOVE & CO., Auctioneers, Brisbane. 6. W. MARTIN, Sworn Valuator, Bourke St., Melbourne.
E. C. Y. BROUGHTON, Auctioneer, 113 Pitt St., Sydney, YOUNG BROS., Auctioneers, Horsham (Yio.)
ENLARGED PHOTOS of the Estate may be seen at Spencer Street Railway Station, Melbourne; Ballarat,
Geelong, Hamilton, and Warrnambool; Central Railway Station, Brisbane; Wallangarra Railway Station,
Queensland; and at the offices of the various Agents.
MAGNETIC TERMS
20 Years at 5 per cent •• with one-tenth Cash Deposit
and no payment except interest for 24 months •


TRODT TACKLE!
We are the LARGEST and LEADING Wholesale
g
and Retail Distributors of Fishing
Tackle in Australia.
We have
Just Opened up a
Magnificent Range
of New Season’s Trout Tackle.
We can supply you Cheaper and Better than any other House.
Give us a Trial and he Convinced.
No. 2.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lilt, and 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, best fittings, lock joints, etc., £4/4/=
THE M.S. SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, best fittings, £2.
No. 4.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 101 ft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, best winch fittings and snake rings, bronze mountings, 25/».
No. B.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, snake rings, welted ferrules, solid fittings, 22/6.
No. 9. —SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, finely finished rod, 30/=.
No. 10S. —SHORT-JOINTED SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, 101 ft.,
5 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, solid reel plate, double-brazed welted
ferrules, 21/-.
No. 18.—OREENHEART TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork-
grip, lock joints, graduated winch fittings, 25/-.
THE M S. GUINEA GREENHEART ROD, 104 ft. and lllft., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed winch fittings, snake lings, stained olive
green ; splendid value, 21/- ; other rods from 7/6 to £7/10.
M.S. PERFECTION TROUT REELS, with tension screws and con-
tracted drum; the best Trout Reel on the market; 3in., 25/-;
Slim. 30/- each.
M.S.‘VENTILATED EBONITE BACK ROTARY CHECK REELS,
with wire drum for rapid winding; 2Jin., 13/6; 2fin., 15/6; 3in.,
17/6 each ; other reels from 2/- each.
M.S. PERFECT COLLAPSIBLE TURNOVER
the very best quality and highly finished,
Landing Nets from 3/6 each.
TROUT NET, all of
17/6; other complete
We ars always pleased to receive Reports
from the various Trout Centres.
TROUT LINES.
We carry the finest assortment of Trout Lines to be found anywhere.
“ KINUFISHER ” PLAITED SILK LINES.
Highly Waterproofed.
30yds., Sinjrle Tapered .. No. 1, 7/6 No. 2, 8/6 No. 3, 10/= each.
40vds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 10/ - No. 2, 10/6 No. 3, 12/“ each.
30yds., Double Tapered.. No. 2, 10/- No. 3, 11/6
40yds., Double Tapered.. No. 1, 11/6 No. 2, 12/6 No. 3, 13/6 each.
42yds., Double Tapered .. No. 4, 22/6 No. 5, 25/» No. 6, 27/6 each.
“PERFECT” WATERPROOF PLAITED SILK LINES.
Splendid level lines, made exclusively for us.
No. 40 .. .. 25yds., 2/6 60yds., 5/- each.
No. 30 .. .. 25yds., 3/- 50yds., 6/- each.
M.S. WATERPROOF THREAD LINES.
Made from best Thread, and waterproofed by a new process.
No. (iO .. 50yds., 1/- No. 40 50yds., 1/3 each.
No. I.—PALLEY’S CAST BOOKS, with parchment pockets, 4/-each.
No! 2.—JAPANNED ROUND CAST BOXES, 1/6 each.
No. S.—ALUMINIUM ROUND CAST BOXES, very light, 2/- each.
No. 3.—TAN CANVAS FLY BOOKS, sin., 2/6 each.
No. 6—BEST QUALITY PIGSKIN FLY BOOKS, with xylonite leaf
fitted with liu Spring Clips, 8/6 each.
Other Fly Books from 1/- to 17/6 each.
No. I.— BEST QUALITY JAPANNED EYED FLY BOXES, fitted
with Steel Spring Clips, mounted to xylonite.
51 Clips, 4/6 ; 85 Clips, S/6 ; 119 Clips, 7/- each.
No. 3.—LOCH LEVEN EYED FLY BOX, fitted with Steel Spring
Clips. 2/» each. ,
SPINNING HEAD TROUT FLIES, 1/6 and 2/3 each.
ROUKE TROUT SPINNERS, 9d. each.
RINGED DEVONS, lin. and ljin., 1/4 ; ljin. and lfin., 1/6 each.
BEST QUILL PHANTOMS, lfin., 2Jin., 2|in., 2/- each.
FISHING BROGUES, made of Good Quality Leather, with Canvas
Uppers, all sizes, 22/6 pair.
Trout Casts, Creels, Spinners’ Gaffs, Bags and sundries in endless
variety.
For a comprehensive description and illustrations of all goods, see
our “Australasian Fishing Tackle Catalogue ’’—the finest book of its kind
ever published—a copy of which will be posted you immediately upon
request.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
“THE House That Sells the Best Tackle,”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
Schute, Bell & Go.
4— | LIMITED
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituent*.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre ct Solution of the fcllcving luzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subieot to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our TICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
Method of advertising, with the object of maki lg our name mere widely known, and to introduce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS!
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S # R*L*A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co., Hunter-
street. Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodg ed in the BankofN.S.W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for ‘ /6,
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is co 'rect, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
accept this reward for your services for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Cempetition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (Bank N.S.W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 108 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct atswers in the orderin which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach ue before the closing date, and be co-rect according to our conditions, and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady's or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B.—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POSTCARD CO., H^,? N S P T Y REET ’
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows :
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding.
Signed
Address
Date
What You Get —Not What You Pay— COUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Built l>v men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PBODUCT of
practical experience.
dsfg
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Black i.
“LUTETIAN
CREAM.
For all kinds of Brown
Leather Boots and Shoes.
Has a world - wide leputation.
Made in light and dark colour*.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated [1
« MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON ( B,ack^ n f,^®""- Po,ish) LTD - LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get ltiou, Is posted. Dit. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Molt,
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
S eluding Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
orse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyboor, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series!.' ; Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Ausr. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
sdf
BOOKSELLER
TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. "Wi
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
tf-urs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Llgmtning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements op Social
Science, 3s 6d. How MoDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL I DBA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OE ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Saptiio, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. l>it. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Bancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit'Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, lfiOO illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


MISS ROSINA BUCKMANN
THE NOTED AUSTRALASIAN PRIMA=DONNA,
tells how she was cured by
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Miss Rosina Buckmann is the noted Australasian Prittla-Dohha: of whoto tlib fteiv
Zealand Iriad (10/9/10) said :“ As Suzuki in ‘Madame Butterfly ’ | WilliaiftsOn’S OtUhd
Opera Company) she had to subordinate the patt of Sliquid to the part Of Chb Cho Sab-
and she did this very delicately Miss BUbkniahh .justified the TRiAb’S good opihioh of
her t and made a genuine attistib Success.” 8 F
Ih the following letter MisS feuckmahn tblls libw t>r. Sheldon’s New Discovery cured
her after trjnrig various other remedies in vain, and her words will carry conviction to
all sufferers from coughs and colds, and
point the way to perfect relief through
the use of Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery.
4
fa®
mmJmm
m#'
“Corrina,” McMahbh'b boint,
SytiHey, Be|>t. M, ibid
Wie Manager,
Sheldon Drug bo., Ltd.
Bear Sir,
It Is with gratitude that
I Write to tbll yoU of the
Wonderful benefit I have de-
rived frbtn the usb ftf Dl\
bheldon’s New Bisbobery.
I was frbW a cßld
Which I was Unhbib to get rill
bf, and which IMb most ihcßrt-
Venient to WVe When Singing
I tried vdrioiis things; soHrie of
Which helped hie a little; bUt
It was not Until I was recßtti-
hibnded to Dh. Sheldbn'B
hew Ciscovety thtit I obtained
hehfect relief dhd hn hbsßliite
bure. Sidce tdkirig this remedy
Irhy throat has Been quite Wall;
land I have not suffered the
slightest from a cough.
Wishing Or. Sheldon’s New
Discovery every success,
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) ROSINA BUCKMANN.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs
and Colds is an unequalled preparation for the
immediate relief of all diseases of the Throat,
Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including- In-
fluenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult
Respiration and Pains in the Chest. When used according to directions is a sure preventive of Pneu-
monia and Consumption. Every bottle guaranteed to give satisfaction, or money refunded.
Sold Everywhere. Prices. Is. 6d. and 3s.
MISS ROSINA BUCKMANN (Talma photo.).
D» Sheldons
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
FO
gsd
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating on ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin. Alcohol, Benzine. I istillate. Naptha
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out-
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse .ears Sizes 2-h.p. to zoo-h.p One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE
Write for our proposition to agents and users o power. Bank references given
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, Ii.S.A.
fgsd
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning' Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
A Ballad of Eureka.
( Told by grandsire to grandson.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STAND up, my ydiiYig Australian,
In the braVe Tight of the sun,
Ahd hekV how Freedom’s battle
'Was ih Plcl days lost—and won.
The bhvod burns in my veins, boy,
As it did in years of yore,
Remembering Eureka,
And the Men of ’Fifty-four.
The old times were the grand times,
And to me the Past appears
As rich as seas at sunset,
With its many colored years ;
And like a lonely island
Aglow in sunset light,
One day stands out in splendor—
The Day of the Good Ifight.
the Golden
her throne sits like a Queen,
'tlVtt thousand ttents were shining
In the htave days that have been.
dwelt the stalwart diggers,
When our hearts with hope were high ...
The stream of Life ran brimming
In that golden time gone by.
They came from many countries,
And far islands in the main,
And years shall pass and vanish
Ere their like are seen again.
Small chance was there for weaklings
With these men of iron core,
Who worked and played like Giants
In the year of ’fifty-four.
The Tyrants of the Goldfields
Would not let us live in peace 5
They harried us and chased us
With their horse and foot police.
Each man must show his license
Wheh they chose, by fits and starts :
They tried to break our spirits,
And they almost broke our hearts.
We wrote a Declaration,
In the store of Shanahan,
Demanding Right and Justice,
And we signed it, man by man,
And Unto Charles Hotham,
Who Was then the Lord on High,
We Sent it; Charles Hotham
Sent a regiment in reply.
There comes a time to all men
When submission is a sin ;
We made a bonfire brave, and
Flung our licenses therein.
Our hearts with scorn and anger
Burned more fiercely than the flame,
Full well we knew our peril,
But we dared it all the same.
On Bakery Hill the Banner
Of the Southern Cross flew free ;
Then up rose Peter Lalor,
And with lifted hand spake he :
“We swear by God above us,
While we live, to work and fight,
For Freedom and for Justice,
For our Manhood and our Right.”
Then, on the bare earth kneeling,
As on a chapel-floor,
Beneath the sacred Banner,
One and all, that oath we swore.
And some of those who swore it
Were like straws upon a flood ;
But there were men who swore it
And who sealed it with their blood.
We held a stern War Council,
For in bitter mood were We,
With Vern, and Hayes, and Humffray,
Brady, Ross and Kennedy,
And fire-eyed Raffaello,
Who was brave as steel, though small—
But gallant Peter Lalor
Was the leader of us all.
Pat Curtain we made captain
Of our Pikemen, soon enrolled,
And Ross, the tall Canadian,
Was our standard-bearer bold.
He came from where St. Lawrence
Flows majestic to the main ;
But the River of St. Lawrence
He would never see again.
Then passed along the order
That a fortresss should be made,
And soon, with planks and palings,
We constructed the stockade.
We w’orked in teeth-set silence,
For we knew what was in store !
Sure never men defended
Such a feeble fort before.
All day the German blacksmith
At his forge wrought fierce and fast;
All day the gleaming pike-blades
At his side in piles were east;
All day the diggers fitted
Blade to staff with stern goodwill,
_ Till all men, save the watchers,
Slept upon the fatal hill.
The night fell cold and dreary,
And the hours crawled slowly by.
Deep sleep was all around me,
But a sentinel was I.
And then the moon grew ghostly,
And I saw the grey dawn creep,
A wan and pallid phantom,
O’er the Mount of Warrenheip.
When over that fountain
Rose the ved 'of the sun,
fegWt ShkVply /it the stillness
our picket’s warning gun.
iXirtdl scarce had died the echo
Ere, of all our little host,
Each man had grasped his weapon,
And each man was at his post.
The foe came on in silence,
Like an army of the dumb;
There was no blare of trumpet,
And there was no tuck of drum.
But ever the5 r came onward,
And l thought, with indrawn breath,
The Redcoats looked like Murder ;
And the Blackcoats looked like Death,
Our gunners, in their gun-pits
That were near the palisade.
Fired fiercely, but the Redcoats
Fired as if upon parade.
Yet,, in the front rank leading
On his men with blazing eyes,
The bullet of a digger
Struck down valiant Captain Wise.
Then “ Charge ! ” cried Captain Thomas,
And with bayonets fixed they came.
The palisade crashed inwards,
Like a wall devoured by flame.
I saw our gallant gunners,
Struggling vainly, backward reel
Before that surge of scarlet,
All alive with stabbing steel.
There Edward Quin of Cavan,
Samuel Green, the Englishman,
And Hafele, the German,
Perished, fighting in the van.
And with them William Quinlan
Fell while battling for the Right,
The first Australian Native
In the first Australian Fight.
But Robertson, the Scotchman,
In his griping, Scottish way,
Caught by the throat a redcoat.
And Upon that redcoat lay.
They beat the Scotchman’s head in,
Smiting hard with butt of gun ;
And slew him—but the redcoat
Died before the week was done.
These diggers fought like heroes
Charged to guard a kingdom’s gate.
But vain was all their valor,
For they could not conquer Fate.
The searchers for the wounded
Found them lying side by side.
They lived good mates together.
And good mates together died.
Then Peter Lalor, gazing
On the fight with fiery glance,
His lion-voice uplifted,
Shouting : “ Pilcemen, notv advance ! ”
A bullet struck him, speaking, _
And he fell as fall the dead :
The Fight had lost its leader,
And the pikemen broke and fled.
The battle was not over,
For there stood upon the hill
A little band of diggers,
Fighting desperately still,
With pistol, pike and hayfork,
Against bayonet and gun.
There was no madder combat
Ever seen beneath the sun.
Then Donaghey, and Dimond,
And Pat Gittins fighting fell.
With Thaddeus Moore, and Reynolds ;
And the muskets rang their knell.
And, staring up at Heaven,
As if watching his soul’s track,
Shot through his heart so merry,
Lay our jester, “ Happy Jack.”
The sky grew black above us,
And the earth below was red,
And, oh, our eyes were burning
As we gazed upon our dead.
On came the troopers charging,
Valiant cut-throats of the Crown,
And wounded men and dying
Flung their useless weapons down.
The bitter fight was ended,
And, with cruel coward-lust,
They dragged our sacred Banner
Through the Stockade’s bloody dust.
But, patient as the gods are,
Justice counts the years and waits—
That Banner now waves proudly
Over Six Australian States.
I said, my young Australian,
That the fight was lost—and won—
But, oh, our hearts were heavy
At the setting of the sun.
Yet, ere the year was over,
Freedom rolled in like a flood :
They gave us all we asked for—
When we asked for it in blood.
God rest you, Peter Lalor !
For you were a white man whole ;
A sword-blade in the sunlight
Was your bright and gallant soul.
And God reward you kindly,
Father Smith, alive or dead ;
’Twas you that gave him shelter
When a price was on his head.
Within the Golden City, j
In a place of peace profound,
The Heroes sleep. Tread softly;
’Tis Australia’s Holy Ground.
And evermore Australia
Will keep green in her heart’s core
The memory of Lalor,
And the Men of Fifty-four.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


v.*A
VA
§
mm
%
slf/A!
W/SSSSSSSJjJ-
HMM
vx
i
THE EVER-READY HEALER
I AND PERFECT SKIN-CURE.
IN the course of her duties the nurse is
I brought into contact with every descrip-
tion of skin disease. She is also brought
to fully realise the need for a reliable healing
balm which can be applied to diseased and
wounded skin with every confidence that
I only good will result.
The fact that hundreds of nurses use
Zam-Buk in the course of their
duties is further proof, if such were
needed, that in Zam-Buk the public
is furnished with a reliable healing
balm and skin-cure, the purity and ,
power of which cannot be denied. ,
Below we quote the opinion of three
of the many trained nurses who have written in praise
of Zam-Buk.
■
i
I
C'
8
wM
NURSE SMITH
NURSE SMITH, who resides in Underwood
Street., Paddington, Sydney, writes After exten-
sive experience I can confidently affirm that Zam-
Bnk is tiie best healing balm I have ever used. In
professional work I often have urgent need of it,
as, on account of its great antiseptic virtues, I find
it unequalled for use in cases where dangerous
symptoms threaten, as in the after-effects of child-
birth. I would not be without a pot of Zam-Buk in
the house.”
NURSE LAWSON, of Evelyn Street, Balaclava,
Melbourne, says:—“As an all-round healer for all
descriptions of home hurts, 1 consider Zam-Buk
invaluable. I have used it in connection with my
nursing cases, and have pleasure in testifying to its
sterling antiseptic and healing qualities.”
NURSE SHAW, of 7 Gibbs Street, Balaclava,
Melbourne, Vie., says “ For 25 years I have been
a resident of Balaclava, and most of that time I
have devoted to nursing. In my experience I
have found Zam-Buk of very great use. I have
used Zam-Buk for cuts, sores, and all des-
criptions of skin disease, which have been
brought under my notice, all with mar-
vellous success."
Bilk
am
fVEP V HOME NEEDS A*p or
Zam-Buk Is a
proved remedy
for eczema, bolls,
sores. bruises,
cuts, blackheads,
pimples, sote
feet. etc. From
all chemists and
stores at la. 6d.
and 3s. 6d. per
pot.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion* If# on tHe otHer Hand
tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe sKin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years*
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
fcersonally conducted
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
British tourist in Italy is perhaps
more deadly in earnest than the American.
All lady tourists are buck-toothed. If one
or two happen not to be buck-toothed, they must
be considered to be untrue to sample and a vari-
ation of type.
Most women tourists hunt in couples, regarding
their Murray or Baedeker as divine revelation,
. reading from the guide-book words of awful
praise of some ghastly attempt at sculpture, or of
some shocking Byzantine daub pretending to be a
picture. In their most exaggerated form the
tourists hunt in parties, conducted by a local
guide, who speaks English to his own admiration
-and to everybody else’s torture. These "10-
guinea inclusive ” tours are rushed, so that they
must be bewildering to the tourist.
I mind me of one personally-conducted tour of
Florence which I followed as small boys follow
barrel-organs from street to street, enjoying to
the full the confusion of the tourists and the mar-
vellous quantity of misinformation provided by
the self-satisfied guide. He bustled them from
■ church to church, bidding them admire the little
shrines where you can’t see the Lord for the scores
of muddy-eyed saints.
He met the Personally Conducted on their
arrival at the Florence railway station, and before
he packed them into a drag he addressed them
seriously :
“Forenze very much makea the improve in
duodieci anni (twelf yearse), but ol’ treasure still
’ere for makea revealment of the beauty. So!
The galleria of Art are not unclose on’Pipp’ny,
S’rove Tuesday, on the a’ las’ two day of the Car-
nivale, Asuncion, Pentecost, Corpus Domini,
Birth of Virgina Marra, on Settembre 20, All
Saint Day an’ Chrisnuis Day. Las’ a year rain-
fall was-a-un’ mille e lasette millimetre, one
thousand an’ seven. Municipio now makea verra
fine water—acqua potabile—an’ the ol’ wells not
use now. 50!... You will now stay with me
like-a the wax. So ! ”
He bustled them into the four-horsed drag,
cried “ Avanti ” to the driver, sprang on the step,
and they rattled away over the cobbles, but only
for 100 yards or so, to the church of Santa Maria
Novella, and then his loud “ Ferme ” stopped the
horses, and the Personally Conducted alighted,
“ This Piazza belong to Florence five ’un’red an
sizty yearee for play ground. The Gran’ Duke
■Pietro Leopoldo hold here great feast to honor
discovery America by Amerigo Vespucci. No—
No—no Colombo not discover America. Ker!
■ Ker ! Ker ! Avanti!”
'The bewildered tourists entered the drag again,
. and the horses clattered over stone-paved streets
for another hundred yards or so.
“Ferine!.., This is Catted rale II duomo di
. Santa Maria del Fiore. Arnolfo di Lapo begin
to build in year mille due cento novaut’otto—
-1293. Then Brunelleschi makea the dome in
mille quattro cento quarante qnattro —1444. The
mosaic on fa9ade is not finished till 1886. It take
six ’undered vearce to build it. Florentine not
in hurry. No.”
Then he contradicted himself by breaking off
quickly and ordering the drag, on another drive
of 10ft. Gin., with a strident “Avanti.”
“This is Giotto Tower. Giotto great man.
He was sheep boy—he makea the very circular O.
So! This verra beautiful—four undred steps up
—cost cinquantecentesimi, five pence, for go up.
Man pay five pence go up, trow over himself, kill
himself from tower. No time go up now.
Avanti.” . . .
More galloping by the horses.
“This Baptistery, budded in year seexundered.
Before that he is Temple of Mars. Look at
beauty of doors, bronze door of Ghiberti, ah, bella
porta ! Mars is god of fight. Other side of street
is colonna of marble with tree of bronze. One
time there is tree there —it die —then great saint
he die too. They carry dead saint past the dead
tree. He dead hand touch dead tree. Dead tree
live again—grow leaf and bud. So—is it not true?
But tree not bring saint to live. That not fair.
Tree dead now; saint dead now; all dead—
Avanti! ”...
Wild performances by the horses.
“This Church di Or San Michele. One time
orchard there, very much fruit grow here—eight
undered yearee ago. Not now. Orcagna design
him. Arnolfo di Lapo an’ Taddeo Gaddi build
him. Avanti.” .. .
Great effort on the part of the equine outfit.
“ Piazza della Signora. This place see many
great trouble. In year one tousand tree undered
forty tree, the Duca of Athens get himself ex-
pulsed. Tirty-five yearee after that is great
fighting of the Ciornpi. Sixa year after Amerigo
Vespucci makea the discovernment of America.
In year 1498 Savonarola get himself brucciarsi-
consumarsi burned away to ash. More better
than fifty yearee past we makea here the pro-
claime of vote for all men in Tuscany. This is
Palazzo Vecchio, and was made in end thirteen
century when all great things an’ great men
begun. ... It is very beautiful. It is Town
Hall now. .. . We hang Archbishop Salvaati
an’ all the Pazzi from top finestra—window.
Archbishop very high, window very high, so
Archbishop hang very nice ; con molti conforti!
“ Verrocchio makea that statuario of boy mak-
ing embracement of the fish—very good—very
nice. .. . This is fount of Neptune by Amman-
atti—four undered tirty-tree yearee old. . . . This
Loggia de Lanzi; much bellezza—Orcagna make
him designed. .. . This Loggia of the Uftizi very
magmfico. Vasari build him year 1560. Very
fine libreria nationale in old theatre here—fine
sculpture ... no time to go up to see. Twenty-sei
statuaries of great Florentine—Petrarca, Dante,
Boccaccio, da Vinci, Machiavelli; e altri. Letters
di Galileo and Bible of Savonarola inside. First
copy of Homer also ever printed, Eccolo qui! So
is ! ” . . .
Speed performance by the horses.
“Greatly magnifico the Uffizi Gallery; much
picture—no time see now. Piccolo Gallery over
Ponte Vecchio take you to Pitti Gallery. Piccolo
Gallery very secret over bridge, behind many
house. Secret J/Quiet! One time murder ! Much
killing! Secret! Quiet! Sssh ! Over bridge,
behind many house! Secret! Quiet! Sssh !. . .
Here is carriage. Avanti! ”. . .
Resumption of velocity by badly-remunerated
steeds.
“This is house of the Via twenty-seven of
Aprile. Vente cinque centesimi twopence
’appny—for to see. Fresco of last supper. No
time now. Avanti!” ...
More hurry performed by team.
/‘.Berme f i’lus. ifiasfza ..Sgp./flrinita,,,
Rolonna of Justice ; orientale granite f/om,
pf Antoninus. Papa Pio the tourt’ give him to
Casimo Medici! .. . Avanti! ” ...
Horses going like perdition. . v
“Ferme ! This Ponte Vecchio—very old bridge
build in twelve century. Benvenuto Cellini had
goldsmith shop on this bridge. Benvenuto very
quick, nasty man ! One time he pray in church
other artist pray too —other artist sneeze. Ben-
venuto say. ‘Le fare per me corleoni eosi.’ Other
artist is dined very nice, and he hiccup. Ben-
venuto leavea the prayer and kill the man who
make hiccup at church door. Benvenuto very
religious man. . . . Avanti !” . . .
Further effort on part of fast-decaying horses.
“ This bridge of the Carrara, builded year
In fourteen century they play drama of Hell, an’
bridge with the lost souls on rafts. The bridge
break ; kill plenty; make Hell veramente, truly
. . . Avanti ! ”
Horses run for their lives.
“ Here Boboli Gardens ; very beautiful; made
by Tribolo. Grass here 10 century old, very
beautiful. No time go in now. .. . Avanti ! ”
Horses again on the move.
“This Porta Romana, Roman gate; not stop
here. ... Avanti ! ”
More distance devoured by horses.
“This Piazzale Michele Angelo; very magni-
fico view. No time to see. Train go Siena very
quick. ... Avanti!”
Horses almost break in two trying to reach rail-
way station.
“You take food here—two franc, wine include;
not much time. Florence very beautiful. No
time see more palace, more chutch. Not time see
Torrigiani Gallery—San Niceolo, Bargello, San
Firenze chutch. Not time for Via Ghibellini,
Santa Croce, Piazzo Riccavdi. No time Palazzo
Strozzi ; Cascine. No time Michele Angelo
house. No time Fiesole —Certosa. No time Val-
lombrosa. No time Bellosguardo. Here is
stazione of railway. Time for train. Give me
two francs—each voyager! Eccoli qui ! So is !
. . . Avanti ! ’’
The train guard’s trumpet blows, and is answered
by the signalman. The large deputy-captain of
the station cries “ Partenza ” for the last time.
The Personally-Conducted patrons of the “Italy
for Ten Guineas in a Fortnight” tour are off to
Siena, bewildered by glimpses of beauty, arises-
thetieised by historical facts, gorged with infor-
mation, stunned by the rapidity of the thing. A
nightmare of sight-seeing, broken only by a dinner
like to that of the Israelites’ last meal in Egypt,
standing up and with their loins girded. Benve-
nuto Cellini and spaghetti, tomatoes and Cimabue,
Giotto’s O, and eggs. The Bargello mixed with
roasted goat flesh, the Boboli suggesting in their
minds something to eat, Savonarola confounded
with Gorgonzola, and the name of a watermelon
with that of an early Christian martyr.
It’s a mad world, and the maddest things in it
are sheep and Personally-Conducted tourists.
Eccolo qui! So is ! Avanti !
RANDOLPH BRDFORD.
A NIGHT’S LODGING,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS I rode up to the front of the selec-
tor’s house, a big, fat-faced man, whom
I took to be the owner,- walked round
from the side and looked very hard at me.
I said : “Good afternoon.”
The fat-faced man grunted something in reply,
and came two or three paces nearer. I still sat
on my horse, and explained: “I am the new
missionary for the Presbyterian Church in the
Last Tank district, and I am making a prelimi-
nary visit to all those ”
“We don’t take no stock in religion, nor mis-
sionaries, back here,” said the man.
“ No,” I resumed. “ Still, I thought no harm
could be done by just calling round, you know,
to”
“Anyways,” he broke in, “if we’re anythin’,
we’re Methodists.”
“Of course,” I assented. “But the difference
between the two religions is so small ; and, as
there is no Methodist minister about here, I—er—
that is, er ”
I came to an end, as I saw that the fat-faced
man was not listening, but was looking at my
horse. My horse was tired, and so was I. We
had come 40 miles, and it was another 20 to the
next house. The long distances of the back
country were new to me, and I badly wanted a
rest, so I had determined to put in the .night here.
I knew the selector had a family. So, as he
presently finished his inspection of the horse, and
looked at me again, I continued :
“You won’t mind me going inside and seeing
the family, will you ? ”
“See’em if you like,” he said; “but they’re
busy. Don’t hang your horse to that pepper-
tree.”
I hung him up at a stunted belar, and went
in, the fat-faced man leading the way. As we
entered the kitchen, he got behind me, put a
hand on my shoulder, and pushed me up to where
a woman was standing near the fireplace.
“Missus, here’s a parson for you,” he bellowed.
The missus looked me all over without moving
even an eyelash, and said : “Umphm !”
I explained again who I was.
Still she said nothing, and her husband went
out. I could hear a couple of girls giggling in the
next room.
I remarked that it was very hot, and that
travelling through the scrub and sand was very
tiring.
Again she grunted, and slowly remarked: “I
s’pose you’ll be wanting a cup of tea—before you
go on.”
But I had no intention of going on. In as off-
hand a manner as I could manage, I replied :
“ Oh, no ; I’m not very thirsty. I’ll wait till tea-
time ” —it was after 4 p.m. “ There’s no hurry.”
The woman began to think, and wrinkled her
brow as if she were negotiating a deep problem.
Suddenly light dawned on her.
“You’ll be wanting to stop all night then?”
Her tone was distinctly discouraging, but I was
desperate.
“ Well, yes. You see it’s 20 miles to Cooper’s,
and the track’s soft. I’m tired, and so is the
horse. So if you could put me up for the night I
would be very thankful. Any sort of a shake-
down will do.”
The woman gave a deep sigh, right from her
boots, and drawled: “Oh, well; if you must —
you must.”
FRANK RADCLIFFE.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murrays English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated W aters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Oriainal and Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
£lor<>qr
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup. Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
D/ARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
fg
I
OTHER MODELS
From 7/S to 40/-
The Accordeon with
1
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ.like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
c
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30/-, Post Free,
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 15/-, Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
dsf
276 Cotlins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.ii
Works s Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
H
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
gsdf
g
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
neuralgia.
S
GOUT and
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fait. 111 C
They Aiuiays Cure. It 1110
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/is& 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
sdfg
sdf
GfIIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Sold by all Chemist*.
CANT
B^
BEAT
>
REAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
POST FREE 1A
A Quality Not Better
jH m a
Ira Guinea Pipe
FM!CK SIMMONS
fr SYDNEY.
STORL
SEOUL
STOREKEEPERS 4 roBACCORTSTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
£5
Big G
Borated GnMenseal
Compound
r A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tho nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
IVky noi cure yourself
i Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request,
i Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio, S A
d.s. l yyx
“ fTIHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
JL he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
azine that caters for a Continent.
AND
CARBIDE.
For First=class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take ;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion ‘of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quit 6
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Heariie &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
Whe'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
if..;:
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
« sk „ y^ur £li emist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, En-.
gdsf
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
—— 1
gsd
Superior to
i INJECTIONS
IcUBEBS and
■COPAIBA.
I Cures the same
* diseases ■without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name 1W"
m
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature’s Gift.
fIAV*
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Engineers’ Rubber Goods.
F=>. R C“
THE manufacture and
sale of meebanical
rubber goods is an
important feature of our
business.
We can supply promptly
anything in the way of
Packings, Hose, Sheet
Rubber, Valves, Linings,
Tubings, Washers, Rings,
Springs, Buffers, eto y and
can make to order any other
rubber goods required. We
are also sole agents for the
celebrated “TITAN”
Leather Belting.
Ask us for estimates on any lines you may require,
or write for a copy of our Mechanical List.
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 58 of our Motors.
Australasian Agency!
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
sfgsdfgdf
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every 'few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Go.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
The bulletin post gards-Ncw
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
fg
CRUTCHING MADE EASY
WITH
THE
HAND-POWER MACHINES.
VARIOUS MODELS.
Send at once for Catalogues and Prices to—
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland; also for TANGYE’S and CLAYTON and
SHUTTLEWORTH MACHINERY.
Tangyes Oil Engine.
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
NGINES FOR THE FARM U STATION
•' ..' . ':■ " \ ' ■ ' - ' ..' s '. * ' '
TANGYES Oil En gfine —Works on Ordinary Kerosene,
Very simple to operate—Thoroughly Reliable.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable
Steam Engine-— Superior in every detail t© any
other Engine of its class—Very popular for Sawrnilling.
The MOST WONDERFUL BATTERY KNOWN to SCIENCE.
Volts 2-6 to 2’7—
Capacity 60 amp. hours.
HIGHEST VOLTAGE OF
ANY CELL KNOWN.
Something New in Electricity.
(AN AUSTRALIAN INVENTION.)
PRINCIPAL USES:
Driving Electric Fans.
Driving Sewing Machines.
Electroplating and Typing.
Wireless Telegraphy.
Domestic Electric Lighting.
Lighting Photographers’ Darkrooms.
Charging Accumulators.
Dental Motors.
X-Ray Coils.
Surgical Cautery.
Inspection Lamps.
Exploding Mines and Blasting.
Sparking Motor Boats and Internal
Combustion and Oil Engines.
PPLIED BY
Bleeck-Love Primary Battery
40 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
dfs
ftr l, w
Size—Bin. x 4|in. x 4fin.
I—Porous Pbt, 2—Carbon
Cylinder, 3—Zinc,
4— Glass Vessel.
DRINK
#
gdsf
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
7 Pirie Street,
PERTH.
ADELAIDE.
gsfd
Air- K. •
'-v..;
g
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney; 525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Send for particulars of Practical Tests of the
CARD CONCENTRATOR.
Made in two styles—for COARSE SANDS and for FINE SLIMES.
The Model “C” Pattern,
Ask for Bulletin Wo. 9,
