

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION-
'
R. Q. W A.TK.IIVS «s£. CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR — .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
-
Sf
McLaren’s
Road Locomotives
The Mighty Hauler.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
ECOBAEtT,
as**?—-
fiadleys Orient fjotel.
PI O N££D
LEATHER BELTING *■>.
Guaranteed.
«/. C. Litdowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
*
" Take it back,
I must have
HUTTONS
fine-Apple Brand I
MAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB'S NEW BOOR
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
NANSEN’S
unket,
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
V*
279 George Street Sydney .
%vV y/ y
&
\
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
ih
The Roofing of Quality.
MALTHOID possesses every quality that is not only
desirable but absolutely necessary to ensure a perfect
roofing. MALTHOID is so satisfactory that it is speci-
fied by the leading Architects all over the world to give
the utmost satisfaction to their clients.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER.
TJ O
O fIJ
BLACK
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Would be, could be ” Spa’s, drawn from coal measures, limestone
regions, or saline cordial room inventions, only perform ** Gas-bag ”
duties for the seller and for the buyer too.
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 1653 ]
[Thursday* October 19. 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.&.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
ROBERTSON'S
238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Gammon, J. C.: Reinforced Concrete Design, 12/6;
posted, 12/10.
Stevenson, R. L.: Life of. By G. Balfour, 1/3;
posted, 1/4.
Dawson’s Accountants’ Compendium : New edition ;
Indispensable to an up-to-date office, 30/-; posted,
Greene, H. I.: Barbara of the Snows, 3/6; p., 3/9
Watkins, A.: Photography, 7/-; posted, 7/10.
Wymper, E.: Andes of the Equator, 1/3- n n*
Luther, M. E.: The. Sovereign Power, 3/6 ;'pv 3/9.
a 3l/° nlplete encyc *°P ae^*a °* the Accountants’ Profession
Coalfields and Collieries of Australia, by F. Danvers Power. 440 pares, 229 illustrations nr!n» ok/ . „ , ,
20-page prospectus, containing, specimen pages and index, posted to any address. ’ P 25 ' ’ ppsted > •
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
Tiie Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
O ft
< «
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
Ijife s a cigar” : tlie wasting body glows ;
-The head turns white as Kosciusko’s snows;
And, with the. last soul-fragrance still in air,
The ashes slowly sink in soft repose.
VICTORIA.
G. G. McC.
A Big Horse to Ride —E. B. Dewing (Mac-
millan). Rose Carson, to whom danc-
ing had been a passion as well as a pro-
fession, tells the story of her life —the
Big Horse she had to ride. The early
part is slow, but the reader is led on in
expectation of events. After Rose is
married she falls in love, and gets into
a matrimonial tangle, which is at any
rate curious. Dewing brings out char-
acter very well, but the yarn is too big
tor a Horse which is not extraordinary.
The Bolted Door—George Gibbs (George
Robertson and Co.). The uncle’s will
said that if his niece and his wife’s
nephew shall marry, they can have his
millions; if not, the said millions go to
the Home for Lost Dogs. Now, She
was a very elegant and fashionable
young lady, whereas He was no class,
and almost unknown to Her. Neverthe-
less, the millions suggest a marriage in
name, wherefore the bolted door between
the sleeping apartments. There are
some nice people in the yarn. Of the
Yi, e . i lt is s , aid •' ‘.‘Her set was rotten.
All its men had histories, all its women
mysteries—a set, in short, in which it
twk unusual cleverness or unusual
virtue t° be virtuous.” The style is good
slick American.
Irish Plays
The Irish literary revival has proved to
be no temporary outburst. When the maga-
zines were busy about the Celtic renais-
sance 12 or 15 years ago, it was feared that
the whole Irish movement depended upon W.
Yeats. Then came the establishment of a
national theatre, the appearance of Lady
Gregory as a comic dramatist, and the dis-
covery of a first-rater in J. M. Synge, whose
early death was a big loss to literature at
large. New writers, however, sprang from
the ould sod, who have carried on the work;
and, as a result of the heroic efforts of the
pioneers, they found ready for them a
theatre and an audience—also a publisher.
There has been nothing finer in recent liter-
ary history than this late re-flowering of the
national spirit of Ireland. The poems of
leats had been appreciated by the elect
wherever English is read; other Irish writers
of less degree had made their mark; but the
clear-sighted patriots amongst them knew
that nothing in verse would appeal to the
mass of their countrymen unless it dwelt on
their ancient wrongs, or stirred their hatred
of the Sassenach. A literature of revolt or
protest could not be enduring, and its occa-
sion had departed. To get to the people,
and to represent the true character and sen-
timent of the nation, drama, the democrat
of literature, must be employed. So, at it
they went. Yeats led the way; wrote plays
himself, encouraged others to write, started
a magazine as organ of the movement, se-
cured actors and a. theatre, and a beginning
was made with his Countess Kathleen in
1899. They struggled through heaps of
difficulty until 1904, when a generous ad-
mirer gave the use of a theatre free of
charge. Since then the way has been easy
and great progress has been made, not only
in the quality and number of plays, but
m the art of stage production and acting.
Yeats, however, devoted so much to art
and his country, that he had to accept, the
other day, a pension of £l5O a year from the
British Government.
Not the least of his services was that of
stirring John Millington Synge into literary
activity. Synge’s work is of greater moment
than anything done in English drama for a
hundred years. He evolved a dramatic
style which built up a mbving tragedy or a
comedy of mischievous humor out of the
living speech of the people. He broke away
from dramatic conventions; and put a new
kind of life on to the stage; the contrarieties
of Irish character, the wilful exaggeration
and the essential poetry of the peasant’s
speech.
Maunsel and Co., of Dublin, who are pub-
lishing. nearly all the plays and poems of
the Irish group, have issued the complete
works of Synge, in four volumes, at 245. net.
Most of the plays have been printed separ-
ately _ (2s. 6d. each), and were mentioned
on this page some time ago. Deirdre of the
Sorrows has now been added to the edition of
single plays, and, though it has not the ad-
vantage of the author’s revision, it is inter-
esting as an attempt to tell an old story in
modern language.
The distressful Helen of old Ireland had
been the ward of Conchubor, King of Ulster,
who intended to marry her. She, however,
married Naisi, and, some years after, Con-
chubor sent Fergus to bring them both to
him. Lavarcham, Deirdre’s nurse, begs her
not to go; prophesying woe:—
Deirdre : “I’ve dread going or staying
Lavarcham. It’s lonesome this place,
having happiness like ours, till I’m ask-
ing each day will this day match yes-
terday, and will to-morrow take a good
place beside the same day in the year
that’s gone; and wondering all times is
it a game worth playing, living on till
you’re dead and old, and our joy is gone
for ever.”
Lavabcham : “If it’s that ails you, I tel
you there’s little hurt getting old
though young girls and poets do be
storming at the shapes of age. (Pas-
sionately.). There's little hurt getting
old, saving when you’re looking back
the way I’m looking this day, and see-
ing the young you’ve a love for breaking
up their hearts with folly.
I’m late so with my warnings, for Fer-
gus’d talk the moon over to take a new
path in the sky. You’ll not stop him
this day, and isn’t it a strange story
you were a plague and torment, since
you were that height, to those who
hang their lifetimes on your voice.
(Overcome with trouble, gathering her
cloalc about her.) Don’t think bad of
my crying. I’m not the like of many,
and I’d see a score of naked corpses
and not heed them at all, but I’m des-
troyed seeing yourself in your hour of
joy when the end is coming surely.
The student of drama would find it useful
to compare this version of Deirdre’s story
with that in conventional style by “A. E.”
(George Russell), also published by Maun-
sel and Co., at Is.
The younger playwrights have followed
Synge in the path of realism, and one of
them, Padraic Colum, is also a poet of
some accomplishment. The two latest arri-
vals are T. C. Murray, author of Birthright,
and St. John Ervine, of Mixed Marriage.
Both these folk-dramas grip the reader as
true and vivid representations of life; and
in the case of Birthright the story is one
that should move any audience.
Lady Gregory has turned three plays of
MoliSre into English with a touch of the
brogue for the Abbey Theatre; for they mix
a little imported drama of intellectual in-
terest with the native products. If you read
The Kiltartan Molidre (3s 6d.), you may be
surprised to find how modern the French-
man is, and how faithful to the spirit of the
original is this queer-looking version.
Price Warung
The late William Astley, who wrote as
“Price Waning,” had a more intimate know-
ledge of “the System” than any man of his
time. For nearly 20 years before he began
to write stories he had been reading and
absorbing all the available material relating
to the prison history of Australia. He had
a flair for the dramatic interest which some-
times lies hidden in bald records, and he had
a habit of order. Actual episodes from the
blood-stained history of lagdpm were
trimmed artistically, and set forth in a
clear, nervous style for The Bulletin, as
Tales of the Convict System. Published in
book form in 1892, they at once took a place
next to the -magnum opus of Marcus Clarke,
and still remain the best of Astley’s work.
The following passage from one of the
stories _ shows Astley striking the pathetic
note with a sure touch before introducing a
tragedy:—
The organ pealed out its opening volun-
tary. How the prisoners loved that organ!
There was no reason why they should not,
for, being the Itev. Mr. Taylor’s private
property, the System had nothing to do
with it. Of small volume, and a not very
copious variety of sound, the instrument
had a rare, sweetness of tone that awoke in
its convict- auditors an infinity of soul which
their gaol surroundings could not altogether
cramp. Touched by Mrs. Taylor’s sympa-
thetic fingers, its notes spoke to them of
another world than the one to which they
were moored, like Lucifer in Hell. It gave
bodily shape and substance to the color and
beauty which Nature spread over their prison
isle, and which, so debasing was the influ-
ence of their prison associations, they could
hardly believe was true—r-could scarcely re-
gard as aught but an entrancing mirage.
Smiled on daily by the softest and bluest of
skies, its witchery never stole into their
hearts till the organ proclaimed their kin-
ship with the eternal world, that other
sphere where spirits out of prison lived,
and moved, and had their being. When the
instrument sang, it filled sin-stained breasts
with unutterable aspiration. When it
sobbed, subtle ideas, embassies of “words
not quickened by the sun,” stirred brains
dulled by routine. When it sighed,
The silence that is in the starry sky,
The sleep that is among the lonely hills,
became audible to embruted ears. Its mas-
ter-chord called up to some men visions of
dear home faces and cherished English
scenes; and to others, as the melody faded
into the key of the sub-dominant.
The silent spectre—the gleam —
The shadow —and the peace supreme
of some great cathedral minster where they
hau worshipped— once! Once, but ah! so
long ago, so long ago!
Mrs. Taylor swept the keys on that Com-
mission Sunday with more than her usual
depth of passion. Perhaps some fore-reach-
ing filament of the impending horror touched
her, for she played as she had never played
before, and, as she ended, a peculiar sound
that was neither a sob nor a sigh, but like
unto both, arose from the grey and yellow
ranks, as an echo to the dying chord.
“It seemed to me,” she said simply to her
husband that night, “like an angel’s heart-
break.”
Three further collections of stories —Tales
of the Early Days (1894), Tales of the
Old Regime (1895) and Tales of the Isle
of Death (1898) did not exhaust his
gleanings from Norfolk Island and Port
Arthur records; but the public had had
enough. In Half-crown Bob and Tales
of the Riverine (1898) he drew upon
an acquaintance > with the Riverine
district made in early journalistic
days. He was anxious to write a
novel; but it seemed to be beyond him. A
long story was commenced in The Aus-
tralian Workman (which Astley edited for
a time), but never completed, and the pro-
mising beginning of a history of “Bush-
Outlawry in Australasia”
( Bulletin , August, ’92) was not continued.
As a journalist, Astley did a large amount
of valuable work for Federation, of which
he was an enthusiastic advocate. One of his
special articles' is remembered, an esti-
mate of Henry Parkes, printed in this paper
just after the old man’s death, and called
“Within an Ace of Greatness.”
New French Books
The Arabian Nights, <i in the form that we
know them, d|te from the Fifteenth Cen-
tury, but there were previous collections,
with a similar frame, as early as the tenth
century. One of these Prof. Gaudefroy-
Demombynes thinks he has discovered in the
work he translates as Les cent et une nuit
(E. Gmlmoto, Sfr.). It includes nineteen
tales, with others inset, notably a score tha
begin, “Doubtless you have heard of- the cun
ning ot womankind; here is another instanc
of it. A few tales, like the Ebony Horse
are common to both collections, and in sue
cases the editor gives the variants of th
later. The earlier series is noticeably mor
primitive, it is “Arabic, with very little ac
mixture of Persian influence”; the storie
are not yet literature like the Nights, bu
tales that are told. There are crude smoke
room stories of the period, awaiting thei
Armand Silvestre, folk tales, and tales o
marvellous adventures; but in each case th
telling is more direct ; the hero does not cal
a halt while he recites certain verses, bu
attacks the “Cleaver of Skulls,” or embrace
the “Miracle of Beauty” without many words
Equally with the Arabian Nights, there
an absence of morals, at least of the morals
that are ours.
Plenley preferred to read the Nights in
the elegant Eighteenth Century translation
of their first translator, Galland, who gave
the. stories without the pornographic diva-
gations of the 'original; the English transla
tion known as Forster’s is a rendering of
his version. A reprint of Galland’s first edi-
tion has just been published by Flammarion
Mille et une nuits, trad., par A. Galland,
4v015., Sfr. per vol. Those who want the
whole may have the French translation of
Dr. Mardrus, at a much lower price than
Burton (Sr-^Payne— Mille et une nuits, trad,
du Dr. Mardrus (Fasquelle), 16vols. at 7fr.
per vol. There is a dispute about the texts
he used, but his style is highly praised by
Andre Gide.
* * * *
Fraugois Villon, Oeuvres, ed. par Un
ancien archiviste (11. Champion, 2fr.), partly
replaces the excellent edition of Longnon,
now out of print. The editorial work in-
cludes the facts of the poet’s life, with
authorities and a bibliography; the only
objection is the glossary, which is too scanty
for the wants of “ung pauvre escollier,” and
needless to a great clerk. The few notes are
chiefly textual; but a helpful feature is a
cqmplete list of proper names. There Archi-
mades ( Dames* du judis) is identified
with Alcibiades, whom Boetius had men-
tioned as* a paragon of beauty, and the
Middle Ages toox for a woman, and “La
Grosse Margot” drops personality and be-
comes “enseigne de plusieurs mauvais lieux.”
The text is Longnon’s, with some corrections
of Gaston Paris. The publisher announces
that the notes and documents, collected by
Marcel Scliwob, on Villon and his com-
panions, will shortly be issued in his Biblio-
theque .du XVe. sidcle.
• * * *
UAmour masque (J. Gillequin, 45c.), the
unpublished story, which Balzac presented
to the' Duchess de Dino, is a mediocre
nouvelle, with an ingenious plot, that should
have yielded better results in his hands. A
passage from lleny Duvenois’ preface is
worth citing, as a half-truth: “One may say
of Balzac, that he understood men, but
revered the mystery of woman. I-Ie did not
vfenture to attack her. till he had given her
chin a beard and had left her toothless ; he
even desired the salvation of that delightful
monster, Madame Marneffe. Ever he as-
crioed the wickedness of the wife to the vil-
lainy of the husband, as the Creator made
Eve from Adam’s rib. He wished to behold
his_ heroines, by the taper’s milky light,
which gave youthful beauty to the woman of
30, and cast a glamor of simplicity over the
gossip of a drawing-room.”
V.V.V.
A Collector of Moons
Dear “Red Page”— /
I have the collecting mania. As a boy, I
tried tops of matchboxes, postage stamps,
birds’ eggs, and perhaps other things for-
gotten now. I remember those three be-
cause the first lot earned me a good hiding at
school—the story is too long to tell; my
beautiful eggs were smashed on the furni-
ture van when the family was a-moving—a
habit it had, and my heart was broken for
nearly a week. I swapped the stamps for a
pin-fire revolver, which, I was assured, had
seen service in the Franco-Prussian war. I
was proud df that weapon, and with it
played “Buffalo Bill” out Cook’s River way,
I was doing finely in the name part when a
“copper” gave chase, and, in my fright, I
threw the shooting-iron into a gutter.
Books accumulated in my room from the
beginning of memory, but I did not regard
them as objects for collection until I picked
up at Skinner’s the first editions of Enoch
Arden, In Memoriam, and a few others, at
3d. and 6d. each. For many months I
haunted second-hand bookshops, until my
luck went dead out, and then I gave up all
thought of .competing with Pierpont Morgan.
Still, the hankering for some definite aim,
some tangible hobby-horse to tide, has re-
curred frequently. Pictures, china, pewter,
Chippendale furniture, and other obj&tg-
d’art were beyond me, and of late years all
I could collect were prescriptions and re-
ceipted bills, until I dropped upon a virgin
field. I discovered some objects of in-
terest which I believe I am the first
to collect. I cannot lose or brea c
them; no one could buy them from me
they cost next to nothing to collect, am
they occupy little space 1 am collectin
Moons —I mean, of course, the moons of th
poets.
My first moon was Rossetti’s, in “Th
Blessed Damozel”:—
. . . the curled moon
Was like a little feather
Fluttering far down the gulf.
And immediately afterwards I came acros
his sonnet —“A Match with the Moon”
Weary already, weary miles to-night
I walked for bed: and- so, to get some ease
I dogged the flying moon with similes.
And like a wisp she doubled on my sight
In ponds; and caught In tree-tops like
kite;
And in a globe of film all liquorish
Swam full-faced like a silly silver fish;—
Last like a bubble shot the welkin’s height
Where the road turned, and got behind me
and sent
My wizened shadow craning round at me,
And jeered, ‘'So stop the measure —one,
two, three.” —
And I faced on her, looked innocent.
But just at parting, half-way down a dell,
She kissed me for good-night. So you’ll not
tell.
That started me on the Quest in earnest.
Soon I found the new moon in the ballad of
“Sir Patrick Speus” :
I saw the new moon late yestreen
Wi’ the auld moon in her arm
which inspired Coleridge’s “Dejection, an
ode”:—
For, lo! the new moon winter bright
And overspread with phantom light
(With swimming phantom light o’erspread,
But rimmed and circled by a silver thread)
I see the old moon in her lap, foretelling
lhe coming on of rain and squally blast.
The last two are bad moons for a collection,
not being definite images. There are lots
of similar moons, such as Ben Jonson’s
“Goddess excellently bright,” and Philip Sid-
ney’s—she of the “long-with-love-acquainted
eyes”—very beautiful, but not pictoriaL
Coleridge’s “Rime of the Ancient Mariner”
yielded nothing more concrete than: — *
The horned- moon with one bright star
Within the nether tip.
and "the star-dogged Moon,” Shelley has
some mad moons, one in a fragment pre-
served by Mrs. Shelley :
And like a dying lady lean and pale
Who totters forth, wrapped in a gauzy veil
Out of her chamber, led by the insane
And feeble wanderings of her fading brain
lhe moon arose up in the murky Bast
A white and shapeless mass.
I don t care for that one much; the Moon’s
Song to the Earth in Prometheus Unbound
is better:
L a most enamoured maiden.
Whose weak brain is overladen
With the pleasure of her love,
Maniac-like around thee move
Gazing, an insatiate bride,
On thy form from every side,
Like a Maenad round the cup
Which Ag;ave lifted up
In the weird Gadmean forest.
I have not gone far into American verse for
moons. I have that well-known one of
Longfellow’s in “The Bridge,” and this one
of Frank Dempster Sherman:—
Within this silent palace of the Night
See how the moon, like some huge phantom
moth, 1
Creeps slowly up across the azure cloth
That hangs between the darkness and the
light.
There are some Australian moons in my
little lot —E. J. Brady’s “When the moon a
silver bugle,” in The Earthen Flow,” ’Rena
\\ allace s “When the moon a silver sickle,”
in A Bush Girl's Songs,” and the best yet,
Sidney Partrige’s “slim silver boomerang” in
Life's Wallaby (which is a prose book, with
passages close to poetry).
From your Page I have appropriated
Frank Henty’s:—
The first lone thruppence in the plate of
night—
A far faint moon lies on the evening blue.
There are others, but perhaps you’ve had
enough.
N.S.W.
LUNATIC.


xute
Anthony Horderns’for Silverware Satisfaction
No. 1007—Butter Dish, Elec-
tro-plated on Nickel Silver
Frame and Cover, Crystal
Glass Dish, pretty design,
7/9.
No. 999—Dinner Cruet, EieC-
itr'oplate on Nickel Silver, 0
'Cut Glass Bottles* 60/-:
3
No. 1020—-Sugar Basin and
Scoop, Electro-plated oh Bri-
tannia Metal, handsomely en-
graved, 19/-
mmz.
No. t)9&-=-DihtoCr Cruet, Elec-
tro-plated on Nickel Silver,
Cut Glass Bottles —4 Bottles,
33/6; 6 Bottles, 46/6,
No. 976 —Single Jam Dish,
Electro-silver plate on Nickel
Silver Frame, rich Ruby Glass
Dish, 7/6.
m
yp.
No. 1056—Napkin Rings, two
in case, E.P. on Nickel Sil-
ver, 14/-. Similar Designs,
in silk-lined cases, 9/6 to 21/-
We are Family Drapers
and Universal Providers,
and the New Palace Em-
porium, with its immense
Stock of the World’s
Choicest Commodities,
offers attractions not to
be found elsewhere.
Tilting Kettle, Electro Silver-
plate on Britannia Metal,
richly chased. 4 half-pints,
37/6.
No. 986—Double PICKXE JAB, Electro-plate
on Britannia Metal, Glass Jars, 18/6.
Electro Silver-plated Flower
Stand, on Britannia Metal,
prettily chased opal Glass
Vase, 32/6.
Other'designs, 37/6,42/-, 48/6.
No. lO'i'2—Flower Vase, Elec-
ttfo-plated on Britannia Metal,
Engraved Glass Vase, 8/-.
No. 1071—EPERGNES, Electro-Plated on
Britannia Metal, Engraved Glass Vase and
Dish, height about 18in., 40/-.
N«, 1049—0 b 1 o n g Entree
Dishes, Electro-plate on Nic-
kel Silver, 10in., Elegant de-
sign, 75/* pair.
No. 1032— Mounted Nap Kin
Bings, Electro-plated on Bri-
tannia Metal, Handsome De-
signs, 3/9 each.
The Electroplate illus-
trated on this page is of
the Highest Quality;
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
assure absolute economy.
Postage must be added to
the price quoted. We pay
freight on E.P. Ware of
the value of £2/10/- or
over, to any Railway
Town in N.S.W.. or Sea-
port in Australia.
No. 983—Single Pickle
Jar, Electro-plated,, on
Britannia Metal Frame,
Cover and Tongs, Cry-
stal Glass Jar, 12/6.
urn
No. 1013 —Single Jam Dish,
Electroplated Frame and
Cover, Crystal Glass Dish,
chased design, 10/6.
Dinner Cruet, Electro-plated
on Nickel Silver, 6 Cut Glass
Bottles, 30/-.
No. 1061 —E lectr o-p 1 a t e 4
Mounts, 3 Bottles, 58/6; to.
lock, 2 Cut-glass Bottles, 38/6,
53/- to 76/-; to lock, 3 Cut-
glass Bottles, 58/6 to 95/-.
I A"
Oak Biscuit Barrel, Electro-
plated on Nickel Silver
Mounts, 13/-.
No. 981—Handsome CAKE BASKET, Electro-
Plate on Britannia Metal, 26/6. Other de-
signs, 21/-, 22/-, 23/-, 25/-.
ANTHONY
HORDERN & SONS,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. 17, except Fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write lor Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [5
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. NIORLEY and GEO. BRETiuc. «. co., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
JA.Y
F/-V
COUGHS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds, clears
away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the respiratory
organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, Throat Weakness and more virulent forms ot colds
immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses taken in the early
stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
SANACINE
NATURES LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and-Tablets 1/14 and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c., in Australia,
ProprietorsASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON. E.C., ENGLAND.
<
3.
o
THE
I
A
RUNVI P‘
J Forest Devil.
This One Caps Them All!
“ I have owned one of the ‘ Bunyip ’ Forest Devils
since 1909, and have used it in all classes of green stumps
and trees, large and small, and it has given every satis-
faction. I pulled two large trees in the township of
Marong, and plenty of the watchers stated that the
machine would not shift them. They were both pulled in
a very short time and with little trouble. I have pulled
large trees, one being x6ft. Bin. round the girth. The
machine, while in my use, never cost me one penny, and
is still in perfect order. I have used lots of other
machines, but this one caps them all.”
(Signed) E. J. OSBORN, Marong, via Bpndigo.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
When writing, please mention this paper.
(Op. St. Francis’ Church).
Will Andrade
FOR
BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest St"ck in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
also Supplementary Cata-
logue of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight, Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “ How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvo.vance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Wm-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
CATALOGUES
FREE.
Nervous Breakdown
CURED IN THIS CASE BY
CLEMENTS TONIC
Nervous Breakdown or Nerve Debility often baffles the best medical skill, and
is often pronounced incurable. Here is a case cured by Clements Tonic. Read it.
No. 6 Post Office Place,
South Melbourne, 2/7/’! i.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ Your tonic is one of the quickest Nerve and Brain cures that
ever was known. I tried all kinds of doctor s medicines, and got no
relief but I have from your tonic. I was that weak at times a child
could push me over. I couldn’t sleep ; I used to listen to the clock
striking hour after hour ; now I can sleep at once. I think my case is
one of the worst I ever heard of. lo tell you the real truth, I CAN
HARDLY MYSELF BELIEVE THE RELIEF I HAVE GOT
FROM THOSE TWO BOTTLES YOU SENT ME. Before I
got your tonic I was going twice a week to the Melbourne Hospital,
and there were a lot of people there with the same complaint. I went
to the Hospital to see them; they all told me HOW WELL I WAS
LOOKING, and asked me what I was taking. I IULD IHM
CLEMENTS TONIC, and strongly advised them to try it. They all
promised to get it and try it. What a relief the sufferers will get,
judging by myself. “ (Signed) W. G. SIMPSON.”
—
Those persons who suffer from An*mla or Poor Blood, Constipation Indigestion, Sickness
after Eating, Irregular Heart Action, Nervousness, Sick or Neuralgic Headache, Nervous
Breakdown caused by over-study or business worries, Kidney Irregularities, should use
Clements Tonic— because it acts at once upon inactive functions and gives them new nerve
forcT U rapidly makes men and women healthy. The mission of this medicine is to create
health ALL STORES and CHEMISTS SELL IT, so that all may obtain it.


We Ask
“WHY I
COUGH?”
Q. What is good for my cough?
A. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Q. How long has it been used?
A. Seventy years.
Q. Do doctors endorse it?
A. If not,we would not make it.
Q. Do you publish the formula?
A. Yes. On every bottle.
Q. Any alcohol in it?
A. Not a single drop.
Q. How may I learn more of this?
A. Ask your doctor. He knows.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co,, Lowell, Mae*.. U, S, A.
THE
IDEAL APERIENT
si
hi
ih
I*
p
in
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
li
J&D
PA
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in alt countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
An
English Doctor
says he never goes
abroad without a tin
of Cerebos Salt, be-
cause he could always
rely on its perfect
purity, goodness and
fineness.
Cerebos
Salt.
Agents—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
■
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, o/o Sydney Agents.
BE, SURE YOU GET
BOIMNINGTOIM’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bonnington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS,
[i
Try it the next time you have a cold, and you will be satisfied.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
(1404.)
M
lit 1
“Salt-Cellars” and No Bust
do great harm to a woman’s appearance. You can increase
vonr vitality, build up your strength, develop your bust to
normal, and fill out the unsightly “salt-cellars.”
A thin woman is not necessarily plain; in fact, many thin
women are admittedly pretty, but the admission is always
qualified with—“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Palliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenua-
tion and development, and will send same and a Free Sample
Treatment to you free of charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp.
All communications private and confidential. Write or call
for full particulars.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
£2O FREE
EVERY WEEK !■
Try to Solve
this Puzzle.
EVERY WEEK we give away Cash Order Prizes that
average over £lOOO a year—or its equivalent in high-class
jewellery—to persons who are willing to use their brains
and talents. If you can find the “boss’ in this picture,
mark it and send it to us. If correct we will send you a
Cash Order for your portion of this week s allotment, and
full particulars of our conditions. Under them you can
win manv articles of jewellery— Gold Watches and
Chains, Rings, Bangles, Guns, Cuff-Rinks, etc., etc.
This offer is made to advertise our famous Electine
Pills four kinds, for which successful contestants may
become our agents. Eight packets sent with Cash Order.
No successful contestant ever received less than a Pour
Shilling Order. This offer open for limited time only.
This farm hand is diligently work-
ing because his Employer is near,
though hidden. Find the. Employer.
ELECTINE MEDICINE CO., 203 ELECTINE BUILDING, SYDNEY.
iiUi
r FOR all ages,
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
-1 pensable to invalids and the aged, and
provides a full diet in sickness.
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
> Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
| Horlick's Malted Milk
I Co.,Slough,Bucks,Eng.
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN -would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Kb CO.,
DEPT. Q VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.
use
BOVRIL
and your food will
FEED YOU MORE.
BOVRIL is a high
class standardized
BEEF-FOOD.
Do not accept
cheap substitutes.
Nothing else is “ just
the same.”
By
Appointment
H.M.
the King:.
CONFIDENTIAL Letters
REMAIN PRIVATE
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is used.
** 3 C / 200
*ATtNT ZANETIC^
COPYING r
l&
&
is
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the copy is made as
you write. Letter shows no sign of copying. The
letter is po-ted and the book locked up. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9 ; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works,
Welford Road, LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Early Spring.
I love the days this time of year,
When Spring, half frightened, shows her head,
And willow trees that long seemed dead,
Their hair with tender green have dressed.
When in the golden-crested morn,
The wonder-things of earth are born.
The river faintly hung with mist,
Is tranquil, save a bird whose wing
Dips down and stirs it ring on ring,
Then shaken are the purple flowers
That crowd the bank, and startled rise
Tremulous gold-winged butterflies.
VICTORIA.
G.J.
A Painful Interview About Nothing.
I sang my hymn to the morning star, and I swore
the forthright vow.
(I’m not quite clear as to what that means, but it
sounds well, you’ll allow.)
I lifted songs to the Brave and True, and supplied my
own applause;
When, out of the fresh-turned, frosted mould came
impudent, loud hee-haws.
I stopped and looked at the blushing rose; then I
said: “Come out of that!’’
The frightened voice of the cringing worm said:
“Wait till I get me hat!”
The earthworm scuttled out, hat in hand, and
trembled in front of me;
I looked him straight in the eye, and said: “Come,
answer me truthfully!
Who mocks my hymn to the morning star and snig-
gers behind the rose,
When out of my spangled, pulsing heart, the echoing
anthem flows?”
The earthworm fumbled his grimy hat, and fidgeted
in his seat;
Then he dropped his eyes, and loudly sniffed, and
shuffled his guilty feet.
“Vile thing of the earth!” (A deep red blush went
billowing down his spine.)
“Ho! What do you know of ‘lifted’ songs and
planets that shove and shine?
I lift my songs to the Brave and True, and I swear
the forthright vow,
But what has it got to do with youf” Then the
earthworm mopped his brow.
“I didn’t mean to offend,” he sighed. (A smirk on
his features played.)
“I thought that I’d have a joke, that’s all, and hide
by the garden spade.”
He blew his nose in a mournful way, and looked at
his blucher boots.
“You lifted that anthem well, and 100k —I’m sorry
for those few hoots !
You know how it is—worms will be worms! I was
born, of course, to crawl,
And here I’m walking about and mocking your forth-
right vow and all!
I don’t know what has com e over me!’’ (A silence
and then a sniff.)
I turned, and gave him a chance to use his sixpenny
handkerchief.
He cleared his throat in a little while, when he felt
himself again,
And said that the garden did me proud, and he rec-
koned we’d soon have rain.
His corns, he told me, were troubling him, and his
jaws were one big ache.
“I think I’ll toddle, if you don’t mind, in case the
weather should break.”
“Oh, no,” I said. So he seized his hat, and rushed
like a thankful soul
Out of my presence and house august, to his mean
suburban hole.
N.S.W.
THE EXTRAORDINARY GARDENER.
Bedtime.
The trees are sleeping, and the sky
Is one soft vague that holds the moon ;
The elves of night fluff whispering by,
The fays have donned their silvern shoon,
The wrinkled gnomes from Nowhere creep
To bid good people go to sleep,
And soon
The fairy folk will come and peep,
And pipe and croon
To keep all naughty dreams at bay
And guard us sweetly till the day
Let in the light,
And Mother Night
Goes gravely o’er the hills away.
So close your eyes, so deep, so blue,
And let the world slip out of sight.
The fairies, sure, are calling you,
Out there beyond the candle-light.
They’ll lead you gently by the hand,
Up and away to Slumberland,
And so
Sweet secrets you shall understand,
And you shall know
Such things that joy in glad surprise
Shall blossom, dearest, in your eyes,
And I, who ’m here
To hold you, dear,
Shall have my share of Paradise.
i. aoRIIiAND.
FRANK MORTON.
A Cycle of Wet Roses.
Blush roses of the time of dawn and dew,
Clear airs of Spring that sprinkle all the blue
With cloudlets gay;
In life’s large udder all the milk is new —
Drink while you may!
Lush yellow roses, of the glowing noon,
Wakeful, while languid lilies lie a-swoon
In the hot sun;
The world’s large cask gurgles a carel-ss tune —
Let the beer run!
Red roses of the sunset. Day is o’er,
The brown dusk draws her chariot to the door,
The first stars shine;
Let glasses clink; life has not spent her store
Of heartsome wine.
White roses, shining in the quiet night,
Breathing all sweetness of the old delight
And joys that fled;
Sweetheart —the words we speak are somewhat
trite —
Toddy, and bed!
N.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH,
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 I Os.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seueri
Prize Medals^
Works s Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
330 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 24 Bond Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills Stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
WELSBACH
Electric Light
Metal Filament Lamps.
m i
“ Far -
V Quality Jjj
Far ‘ *
Strengths
Tine life of tine lamp is in tine strength
of the Filaments. Hence the instant
success of the WELSBACH LAMP.
Write—NOW —for particulars to
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Brisbane and Perth.
Solid Silver,
2916
POST
FREE.
fi
/
PAVIt
rfOI
Stunt
N>
WM
IT BN I*
@=S
This Solid Silver Keyless Open-faced Lever
Watch is a real tip-top timekeeper—strong
and doubly reliable. Full jewelled move-
ment, warranted for 10 years, and kept in
order free of charge for three years.
Send for a copy of my Large
Jewellery and Silverware Cata-
logue—it is a Money Saver.
JOE DAVIS,
The Money Saving Jeweller,
26 Park St., Sydney,
One Door from Pitt Street.
WONDERFUL!
You get wonderful watch service in
these two watches illustrated.
They are beyond all doubt the best
watches in Australia at the price.
Remember my guarantee: Satisfaction,
or your money back.
21
POST
FREE.
The Joe Davis Double-case Oxidised Steel'
Lever Watch, fully jewelled, with all the latest
improvements. This is, indeed, a wonderful
watch for the money—strong, well made, and an
accurate timekeeper. Warranted for 10 years,
and kept in order free of charge for two years.
ABDULLA
CIGARETTES.
If you would enjoy the subtle charm of a soothing
and stimulating smoke, try ABDULLA Turkish, Virginian
or Egyptian Cigarettes. Highest award—and only Grand
Prix— Festival of Empire Exhibition, London.
ASK \ OUR TOBACCONIST FOR THEM.
BSUfiEIYxCC
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA
gpl
kl.
[sswww^l
THE first step to complete Motor Car satisfaction
is to ask for the Dalgety catalogues and booklets.
Thus you will secure accurate and dependable
information concerning the foremost triumphs of
automobile construction.
The powerful Silent Knight DAIMLER (15, 22 and 38 H.P.);
the luxurious DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE (17 and 19 H.P.) ; the
admirable AUSTIN (10, 15 and 18/24 H.P.) and the popular F.N.
(10/14 and 16/24 H.P.).
These are the cars—each a veritable example of work-pride and
skilled manufacture—which represent the highest ideals of British and
European designers. ' 1 £
We are also sole agents for THE HALLEY MOTOR LORR\
—the simple, accessible and remarkably efficient commercial motor.
Full particulars on application.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.
Motor Garage,
136-8 Phillip Street, Sydney


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voii< i!2.—jSo. 1G53.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1911.
PIUOH GIJ.
HONEST FINANCE IN ASIA.
It is reported that the Chinese rebellion was hastened by the proposal of the Government to float a large loan for railway-building purposes.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleou,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . . . ft 0 0
Half-yearly 0 13 6
Quarterly 0 7 0
liy sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc-., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and. to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters {with regard to subscriptions 3 ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. "The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official aluays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
dhe Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Perse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially o cept-
Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
niitECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch {wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and lligby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at li/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/.'il Hastings Street;
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A.■ —Golden Gate News Co., 789 Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — ll. John and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x Ujin., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) :—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, ldoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz. to
lOoz., Sid; lOoz. to ISoz., 3d; elsewhere, 1/oz., Id.,
und id. each additional Soz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1911.
FREETRADE AND THE MINIMUM
WAGE.
The shortest and simplest explanation of
the recent annoyances in the British Isles is
the discrepancy between food and wages.
That explains most annoyances. Chiozza
Monev, a notable Liberal, recently published
a series of calculations on this subject,
though he apparently missed the natural
and obvious inference to be drawn from his
own figures. He estimated that between
1895 and 1910 wages in Britain rose, on the
average, 12 per cent., while the price of food
went up to 18 per cent. Therefore, the toil-
ing J. Bull —on the average, the worst-paid
worker in Western Europe—found him-
self (5 per cent, hungrier than before, and
in a perfectly natural way, he grew angry.
There were many fluctuations in the 15
years, though the final result was as shown
above. Wages rose from 1895 to 1900;
dropped from 1900 to 1904; rose again in
1905-6-7; and fell after that. On the other
hand, in the last years during which wages
were dropping, food prices were rising faster
than usual; between 1907 and 1910 the
workman’s pay fell per cent., and the cost
of his victuals went up 3 per cent. The
wonderful Tom Mann, well-known in Aus-
tralia, and one time keeper of the Beer and
Water Hotel somewhere in England, pro-
poses, as a remedy for all this misery, a legal
minimum wage of £2 per week. But that
remedy hardly applies in Freetrade England.
There wages reached the summit —the very
humble summit —in 1907, and straightway a
slump set in, because the manufacturer, with
enormous taxes to pay, and the competition
of all the cheap races of the world to face,
couldn’t stand the racket. The non-produc-
tive landlord —especially the city one—may
be on a brilliant wicket, but the man who
actually makes things has rather chequered
luck in many instances. Coal-mining reached
the top and started downhill in the latter
part of 1907; ditto the export of coal and
coke; ditto the production of iron, woollens,
cottons and linens; and out of 309 blast fur-
naces 51 closed up. The fact that the Ar-
gentine person in South America charged J.
Bull, the toiling iron-worker, more for his
imported loaf didn’t endble J. Bull, Esq.,
the owner of the iron works, to get any more
for the pig-iron he sold (say) to the Dago
in Italy. Rather he got less for the pig-iron,
because the Russian, who grows his own loaf
and thus saves the freight which J. Bull
has to pay on his loaf, is starting to make
iron and compete in the Italian market.
So food prices and wages bear no fixed ratio
to each other in England. Tom Mann, of
course, saw tfie minimum wage idea at work
in Australia, and he annexed it; but, with the
natural dulness of a man who used to run
the Beer and Water Hotel, he annexed it in
a badly mixed condition. Victoria, for in-
stance, which devised the minimum wage
idea, did not enact that hoots should he made
at Melbourne with white labor exclusively,
and that the white labor should be paid a
minimum of 50s. a week for 48 hours, while
providing that similar boots might be made
at Ballarat by imported Hindus working 72
hours for Bs. a week. It was not so mad as
to pass a law which, under pretence of giving
the Melbourne white bootmaker a steady
wage, would leave him no wage at all. Yet,
that is exactly what the British Freetrade
advocate of the minimum wage proposes to
do. Under the British system the cheap
colored worker at Bombay' or Canton has the
same access to the London market that the
Ballarat worker has to the Melbourne mar-
ket, and while that state of things endures
the highest wage the British worker can pos-
sibly get is simply the highest figure at which
it is possible for him to compete with the
foreigner—the cheapest foreigner. The fixing
of any legal minimum wage which is above
that figure, whether that figure is 12s. or
lGs. or 30s. or 7s. 6d. a week, must simply
deprive the British worker of his job and
leave him to starve, as he began to do when
the slump happened after 1907.
Thus it comes to pass that if the price of food
goes up so high that the British workman
can’t live on his wages, he may simply have to
die on his wages. The price of his food is the
biggest amount that some wholly unsympa-
thetic Argentine or Russian or Canadian can
charge for wheat and beef in a world where
the demand for wheat and beef is growing-
faster than the supply. (As a side issue, the
world’s wheat crop for this year is estimated
as being over a million tons less than in 1910
and less than in 1909, so, with a large increase
of population and consequently of de-
mand, the foreign supplier should be
able to shove the price of the loaf
up a bit higher still). On the other
hand, the wages with which the British
toiler and moiler buys this variable loaf arc;
ruled by the selling value of his goods, and
these are fixed in open competition with many
countries which grow their own victuals and
are not at the mercy of foreign suppliers—
some of them countries where rents are low,
and clothes and fuel almost superfluous.
Supposing the wage figures and the food
figures happen to disagree so widely
that the British worker is unable to
exist, no mere minimum wage law
can help him. That device is good
enough in a country which raises its own
provender in its own paddock, and shuts out
foreign goods made by foreign cheap labor ;
but it is of no earthly value to one that has
destroyed its local agriculture and opened its
doors to all the cheap labor manufactures of
the globe. All Bull, the toiler, can hope is
that one foreigner, perhaps a rice-fed
foreigner in India, won’t be making cloth
very cheaply just at the time when another
foreigner, perhaps a foreigner with a huge
Panama hat in Argentina, sees a chance to
sell wheat and ox-meat very dear. A great
deal may be done to ease the strain by im-
proving social conditions and wiping out the
rich and unproductive class of parasites, but
no social reform is likely to affect the basic
problem. It represents a trouble that will
recur while Freetrade lasts.
THE NECESSITY FOR KICKING JOHN
WEARY.
When John Mukbay, State Premier of
Victoria, slouched home from England the
other day, long after his contemporaries had
arrived, he found an item of news awaiting
him. The compilation of the census figures
has advanced far enough to show that one
progressive State is entitled to gain a mem-
ber in the House of Representatives, and one
unprogressive State has lagged sufficiently
to be qualified to lose a member. Queens-
land makes the gain, and Victoria stands the
loss. A similar event happened at last re-
adjustment ; then, it was N.S.W. that
gained, and then again it was Victoria that
lost. Tasmania, which is the worst case of
all, is prevented from losing members by
that proviso in the Constitution which gives
every State a minimum of five Representa-
tives. It doesn’t fall, because it is down on
the cellar floor already, and it can’t get
down further unless it digs a pit. Victoria
not being protected in the same fashion, is a
chronic loser. It sinks lower and lower in
the scale of political importance, and be-
comes, by comparison, of less and less ac-
count. It is hampered, of course, by the
fact that it is far the smallest of the main-
land States, being only a quarter of the
area of the least among its neighbors It is
further hampered by the fact that it doesn’t
get anything like the trade that naturally
belongs to it. It is the outlet devised by
Pbovidence for a large section of Riverina,
but N.S.W. wont allow railway communica-
tion except at one spot, and would rather
keep a most valuable part of its own territory
a howling desert than allow it to prosper ■
and ship its goods via Melbourne. Victoria
is retarded some more by the circumstance
that it includes a larger proportion of pic-
turesque, but barren and almost inaccessible.
mountain country than any other mainland
State. Also, it is already by far the most
thickly peopled of all the States, so it has
less room for expansion than its neighbors,
let, with all these drawbacks, it need not
have commenced, for many years, to
drift downward from its proud position as
the second member of the Commonwealth,
but for the insane policy of its rulers, as
typified by Bent and Weary, and but for
the crazy jealousy with which Melbourne
tries to grab everything, and the vinamous
hrck of patriotism which makes that big-
city prefer to see half Victoria a wilderness
man see it prosper by trading through any
Victorian port that isn’t Melbourne.
The eastern part of Victoria is very
empty, because it consists largely of beauti-
ml and picturesque rocks, extending up to
(1500 ft. or more above sea level. The rich
and magnificent western section is very
empty, partly because of the State’s de-
ranged anxiety not to disturb the huge land
monopolist, and partly because a great part
of the district is too far away from Mel-
bourne to do business profitably with that
bloated metropolis. The west has, at Port-
land, a better harbor than Melbourne, but it
isn’t allowed to do its commerce'there be-
cause the place isn’t Melbourne. JMelbourne
arrived first, for the reason that, in the
days of the State’s beginnings, the few feet
of water in the Yarra were sufficient for
all the shipping that wandered round the
Australian coast, and, having arrived, it
would rather kill Victoria quite dead than
give any other port a chance. So there are
no direct railways to Portland, to bring
thither the trade of the north-west. The
lines which reach that fine harbor are wildly
circuitous, and devised to turn 100 miles
into 200, and the charges are specially high,
in order to turn the 200 miles into 400.
There is no big city at Portland, by reason
of these drawbacks, and no great array of
deep-water wharves. Melbourne makes very
little out of the north-west, because that
region is almost empty, while Portland
might make millions, because, with direct
communication to a handy, deep-water port,
the north-west would cease to be empty.
The north-western lines drag a fragment of
goods to Melbourne, at a loss, while they
might carry immense quantities to Portland
at a profit. The rise of Portland wouldn’t
happen at Melbourne’s expense, because the
old city would still serve the same district
as at present. By opening up the west, and
giving Portland every possible chance to be
another Melbourne, a vast amount of immi-
gration might be diverted to a region which
now gets no immigrants. Then Victoria
would have two ports of call for big ocean
steamers, in place of one, but, apparently,
it doesn’t want two. Its banks and insur-
ance offices and mercantile establishments
might double their business, but it would
seem that they hate the idea of doubling
their business. And Victoria wouldn’t be
steadily losing its membership in the House
of Representatives. But then, perhaps, it
prefers to lose its membership, and is rather
pleased than otherwise to find itself dropping
from its old pomp and importance.
* * * *
There are large experiences ahead —and
not very far ahead—for Australia, the coun-
try which keeps its first-class ports mostly
closed, and its very inferior ports mostly
open. The day of the Big Ships is coming.
The Big Ships are wanted, partly because
of the growing taste for luxury and partly
as a matter of economy, for one 40,000-ton
vessel can be worked much more cheaply
than four 10,000-ton vessels, and very much
more cheaply than eight 5000-tonners. In
the Atlantic, the passenger ship that is
45,000 tons register and 850 ft. long, ar-
rived a while ago, and the 50,000-ton
vessel is coming, and the 60,000-ton affair
is threatening to come. These monsters can
get into very few places, and the places they
can get into have a notable start over all
rivals. Australia has , already the 7000-ton
coaster, which can onlysget into a few of the
ports in actual use, and the 12,000- or
13,000-ton oversea vessel, which can get in
at still fewer. The original curse of Aus-
tralian coastal cities was that the site for
a new settlement was generally selected be-
cause it was far enough up a river to make
fresh water obtainable, and because, at the
place where the settlement was pegged out.
the river was so shallow that it could be
forded with safety. The secondary curse
was that the cities which were put in these
ill-selected places, used, and still use, all their
influence to prevent new cities being founded
in better-selected places. Thus, Townsville
dreams alongside the shallow Ross Creek,
while a much better harbor lies neglected a
few miles awa.v. Rockhampton is located
far up a hot ditch, which even the small
Queensland coastal vessels have mostly out-
grown, while another good harbor lies almost
unknown at its back door. Maryborough is
an unsuccessful sort of place, a long way up
a still worse ditch than Rockhampton’s
ditch. Brisbane is Rockhampton over again,
located on a narrow section of an ill-con-
ditioned stream that all the cash in Queens-
land couldn’t qualify to receive a first-class
modern vessel. Newcastle is on a lament-
ably difficult river mouth. Sydney will only
rank as a second-rate port when really big
vessels come here. The channel is tortuous
and much blocked by islands. Most of the
shores are precipitous, and quite unfitted for
wharves, and the most useless and precipi-
tous parts are those where the water is
deepest. The comparatively small stretch
of low-lying shore, where there is fairly
deep water, is already congested. Mel-
bourne, with its miles and miles of possible
wharfage, would in the end beat Sydney out
of sight but for the lamentable fact’ that
there isn’t enough money in Victoria to
make a channel across the wastes of Port
Phillip deep enough for the biggest type of
steamer. Adelaide isn’t a patch on Port
Lincoln, just as Melbourne isn’t a patch on
Portland. As for Perth, it has given up
professing to be a port, and depends on Fre-
mantle. Yet even Fremantle doesn’t com-
pare with Albany for possibilities.
If Australia does not realise the fact that
it ought to make use of the easilv-accessible
deep-water ports, which have been so care-
fully kept closed through the jealousy of
badly-placed cities, it must alwavs be a
back number in shipping affairs. Thanks to
the lamentable shortsightedness of the Oldest
Inhabitant —a person who now dodders
around in spectacles, and tells strange tales
of the amazing ouantity of wood he used to
chon in his bovhood —almost every first-class
Australian harbor has no city upon it, and
hardly any .business facilities beside it.
There is a great prospect ahead of the State
which is the first to realise that it will pay
to put its best harbor foremost, quite irres-
pective of the frenzied jealousy of some big
town, the site of which was selected
in days when a 1000-ton ship was
a rarity, and a 1500-ton vessel a
leviathan. John Weaby, of Victoria,
should think especially hard over this
matter, for his State is the smallest on the
continent, and the one that can least afford
to throw away chances. It is the one State
which is dropping steadily from its high
position. It entered the Commonwealth with
a rank and dignity that far exceeded its visi-
ble resources, and, as a matter of pride,, even
the tiredest Premier might do something to
preserve that rank and dignity. It is up to
some State to set an example by abandoning
the ruinous policy of congestion, and Premier
Weaby has an inducement to lead the way,
inasmuch as his State is the first to fall into
contempt and disrepute by reason of the con-
gestion policy. Whether the contempt and
disrepute will move Weaby to action is a
question which no one can decide as yet.
People who know Weaby are of opinion that
nothing would move him to anything. Man
is of three kinds —the kind that moves with-
out being kicked ; the kind that moves when
kicked; and the kind that is kicked, and
doesn t move. There is a suspicion abroad
that the present Victorian Premier belongs
to the third variety.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Child of the Bulldog Breed.
Ihe A.M.P. Society has been digging into
its mortality experience for the third time
since it was born, in 1849, and the results
hit two or three people in the eye. They
hit the society itself, to begin with. Two or
three years ago, it decided to lose its purely
Australian character by hunting tor busi-
ness in Britain and elsewhere; and now it
lias to admit that its own Australian mor-
tality experience has been far more satis-
factory than that of the British offices. On
son.> ex P enence of the latter, from 1803 to
18J3, it would have had 10,713 deaths to
pay tor, whereas, as a matter of fact, it
only had to pay out on 8259. That applies
only to insurances of “healthy males’’; but
in the other classes the result is the same,
and explains why the Australian office can
pay bigger bonuses than the one that in-
sures the Britisher. But an even more vio-
lent knock is given to the person who tells
the Australian that he is a decadent, and
not half the man his Dad of the Bulldog
V r t> ased to be. As a matter of fact, the
A.M.P. s experience, which covers 101,871
male lives, shows that, whereas the Austra-
hanyonth of 20 might expect to live another
io^o years , on tlie societ y’s experience up
to 1878, on the experience up to 1903 (when
the inquiry ended) he may, nowadays, ex-
pect to live another 47‘376 years. Even
ItiCHARD leece, who doesn’t always whom
tor Australia as he might, flips ’ out this
comment on those figures:—
wi fhsfa ruhrur h scl ? ses the , remarkable fact that, not-
IthJ ” the lnc / eased duration of the assurances,
selection t t < ? rlse< t lient , wearing-out of the effects of
selection, the expectation of life has increased at
each investigation at almost every age. Th s
would appear to be fair evidence of increasing-
vitality among the members of the society.
And as, somewhere else, Mr. Tlkce says
that the results may be “safely relied upon”
fne a h, l by a ?, y office trausact-
!ow« b fW S V n fl be Commonwealth,” it fol-
vAolit!, 4 tle indicate increasing
wS t f wl° ng the Cl l xze ? s or ' the Common-
wealth. Whereupon, the Dad of the Bulldog
Breed may come down off the pedestal, and
the Boy may go up instead as a sample of
a race which has succeeded in bettering the
oia man s record.
How an “Unbearable Position” Suddenly
Became Bearable; and tlie Moral Thereof.
Foe over a fortnight, now, the N. S. Wales
Assembly lias been a decently behaved bodv.
the D ?/ sslles hay e bee n thrown at anyone by
the flower of the Liberal” party; there
has been no blasphemy or obscene language
or mule-headed holding-up of the country's
business by the crowd that used to claim
that it represented law and order; and as-.i
result, the Speaker has not been forced ,o
from fi be ii GXpUl i- on of fading “Liberals"
tiom the House for quite a while. Yet the
conditions are identically the same as tliev
were throughout the discreditable period
when Wood, Onslow, Fitzpatbick and the
rest daily and nightly trailed the good name
of the N.S.W. Legislative Ass. in the mud.
McGowen is still in office; Willis is still
Speaker; Wood is still firmly squelched so
often as he attempts to obstruct business or
insult the Onalr under cover of LarlicLiuent-
ary privilege. What is the answer to it?
YVhy does Liberalism,” which pleaded, only
the other day, in extenuation of its disgrace-
ful conduct, that “human nature could not
i k* n dure the situation created
by the Will ±a- Holman compact/’ now en-
dure that same situation without a curse?
The simple explanation is that the Speaker-
baiters have been “called off.” Sydney Tele-
bapii fomented the campaign of insult, slan-
der, assaiut, etc., the object whereof was the
ejection of Labor from office. The thing was
a failure, as abject as the Dreadnought sub-
scription, or Anti-Sosh, or any other of the
two or three dozen reactionary efforts that
sheet has made of late years. Realising that
fact, the Telegkaph, on October 4, delivered
the following ukase :
The members who persist in moving these motions
of dissent x:an do no good to their own party and less
than none to the Parliamentary rights that they are
trying to vindicate There have been no less than
five abortive votes of censure moved within the few
months of this Parliament’s existence, and most of
them, by their want of tact, proved distinctly bene-
ficial to the Government. A prolongation of this
futile conflict with the Speaker can only serve the
same purpose, and as a matter of common-sense, it
is time that it stopped. No principle is vindicated,
for in these cases protest stands for nothing. The
Opposition must see that it is now only aggravating
the evil it is trying to cure.
It acted like magic. Next morning, the
paper was able to say :
There were no questions for the Speaker when the
Legislative Assembly met yesterday, neither was any
ruling of his subjected to formal scrutiny by way of
motion of dissent. The House took qaite an extra-
ordinary turn, in fact. Questions without notice,
which have always consumed from half an hour to an
hour each afternoon this session, were disposed of in
about 10 minutes, and by a quarter to five members
were engaged in the consideration of the first motion
on the business paper. But what the House gained
in the way of orderliness and respect it lost in in-
terest for the public.
And a week later: —
Yesterday, as last week, the Assembly was a most
orderly place.
There are several useful lessons to be learned
by the N. S. Wales electors from the above.


CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1911.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations, by “Hop,” Alf Vincent, Nor-
man Lindsay and other leading representative
artists, will be the finest Black and White work
obtainable in Australia, and will reflect the
natiunal humor.
Tiie Bulletin Christmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates, but,
in consequence of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 18th NOVEMBER to ensure
supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
One is that the policy of “Liberalism” in
Parliament is evidently directed from some
back office or other in King-street, Sydney;
and another is that, however illegal and dis-
graceful and imbecile the said policy may be,
“Liberalism” may be relied on to cheerfully
adopt it. The astounding abruptness with
which the Wade party stopped persecuting
Willis, upon the order to “cease fire” issu-
ing from the demesne of “Whiskers” Ward,
argues, either that the “Liberals” were liars
when they said that they could not help riot-
ing “because they were only human,” or else
that they have now ceased to be human. The
general impression will be that the truth
was not in them when they denied that the
whole uproar whereby N. S. Wales has been
rendered a jest and a byword, of late, was
part of a carefully worked-out plot. The
coming by-elections will give at least two
constituencies the opportunity of saying that
they don’t want Parliament deliberately de-
graded for party purposes; and that, in par-
ticular, they don’t want it degraded on the
say-so of an irresponsible anti-Labor editor.
The elector who omits to lodge this badly-
needed protest deserves all that is coming to
him in the way of misgovernment.
F.A.Q. Wheat and the Men Who Grow It.
Of late, certain wheat farmers of Australia,
especially in Victoria, have been exercised
over what they call the F.A.Q. standard and
other matters pertaining to the grain that is
turned into the staff of life, and the Vic.
Assembly has appointed a committee to inves-
tigate the matter and recommend improve-
ments, if it can. l’robably that committee
will discover some surprising facts, but the
circumstances surrounding the wheat-growing
industry are so well known, and the remedies
so obvious that no inquiry is really needed.
The F.A.Q. (fair average quality) standard
of wheat, which purports to represent the
bulk of the merchantable wheat crop—a
mixture of all the grain grown in the State
that is fit to be turned into flour —is fixed
by the corn trade section of the Chamber of
Commerce through a sub-committee consist-
ing of two millers, two shippers, and one
grower! This standard is such a fool of a
thing that the wonder is the farmer hasn’t
chased it into oblivion long ago. Neces-
sarily, it penalises the progressive agricul-
turist, who tries to raise the quality of his
wheat at the expense of the quantity, and
advantages the man who studies quantity
only, even though he lowers the standard by
doing so. As for the method by which it is
fixed, only a mild lunatic would have en-
dured it for more than a season. It is as
though a fruit-grower took a case of plums
to the city, and there met two fruiterers
and two jam-makers, and the five put a
value on the plums. The grower is in a
minority of one to four every time. An even
worse folly is the system of “free storage,”
under which a farmer who stores with a
miller or shipper gets gratis board and lodg-
ing for his wheat during a period of six
months, provided he agrees to sell to the
storer. This latter person agiees to buy the
goods at current rates on a basis of equal
merit and weight to that declared at the
time of delivery. If the farmer declines to
accept the then price, and sells elsewhere,
the storer may charge for storing, insurance,
etc., any old price he likes. The pffint of this
piece of humor —or rascality—lies in the
fact that the wheat is milled, just as butter is
milled ; its identity is destroyed, and, as no
detailed certificates are issued setting forth
the number, brands and weights of bags, if
the farmer takes “his” wheat back and sells
it elsewhere he doesn’t get his own wheat,
but merely so many bushels out of the bulk
stock. This means that the storer —whether
miller or shipper—can sell, mortgage, manu-
facture or otherwise manipulate the farmer’s
wheat and use the proceeds for further
deals. He doesn’t store the wheat free for
six months; he borrows it free of interest
for six months. Also, as wheat notoriously
gains in weight at certaimtimes of the year,
the farmer makes the storer a present of this
additional weight. Another trouble, which
is no fault of the farmer’s, is that the cabled
London quotations for wheat, as published
in the Australian press, don’t correspond
with those of even dates, given in the Mark
Lane Express, the standard trade journal,
and in most cases the cabled prices are lower
than the journal’s figures. This latter ir-
regularity could easily be corrected by the
Agent-General; but the other troubles call
for energetic action by the Government. In-
stead of the Chambers of Commerce —of all
bodies —fixing their absurd F.A.Q. standard,
the State agricultural authorities should fix
standards for first, second and third grade
wheat; the State should erect storing sheds
at railway stations, and certificates should
be issued showing the «nftmber, brands and
weights of bags stored and the grade of the
wheat, the farmer being charged the trifling
sum necessary to cover cost of storage,
etc. That individual would lose his precious
“free storage,” and the system wouldn’t suit
the careless, dirty grower who puts quantity
before everything; but the painstaking, pro-
gressive man who exercised skill and energy
in selecting and improving his grain would
get a good deal more for his wheat than at
present; he would get the value of the full
weight of it, and he would get the cash for
it as soon as the miller bought it and took it
away—not six months or more afterwards.
The wheat-buyers would probably disapprove
of the new system, but then Australia has no
urgent need to study wheat-buyers. It could
do without them, but it would have some
difficulty in getting along without the
growers.
The Australian Pressman Gets a Move On.
Probably the most rapid and complete or-
ganisation of any body of workers in the
Commonwealth, since Federation became an
accomplished fact, was that which resulted
in the recent formation of the Australian
Journalists’ Association, and its registration
under the Federal Arbitration Act. Hur-
riedly formed in Melbourne, in the first
quarter of 1910, by the working pressmen
on the city papers there, the enthusiasm then
engendered has swept round and over the
continent, until, to-day, branches have been
formed in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Bal-
larat, Bendigo, Adelaide, Broken Hill, Perth,
and Hobart. And, in each of those places,
practically every working pressman has
joined his branch. Since the registration of
the A.J.A. (May, 1910), in the Federal Ar-
bitration Court, as an industrial body, an
enormous amount of work has been done, all
of it voluntarily and in the spare time—
what there is of it —of the officers who guide
the movement. The most significant sign
of the strength of the new body is to be
found in the last issue of the Australasian
Typographical Journal. In its leading
article that paper says:—
The moving spirits of the Australian Journalists’
Association were not long in coming to the conclu-
sion that their organisation would gain greatly added
power if they could form an alliance with the organ-
ised typographical sections of the Commonwealth,
which are so well welded together in the Austra-
lasian Typographical Union, and the A.J.A. execu-
tive officers have . been in consultation with the
typographical officials in an endeavor to consummate
an entente cordiale. It seems to be the desire of
the journalists to bring about the establishment of
a uniform set of conditions that will be consonant
with the high-class duties which devolve upon them
generally, and in their endeavor it is not likely they
will look in vain for support from the typographical
section. If the spirit of unionism which at present
appears to pervade the journalists continues to be
exercised in the future, there is no reason why a
close affiliation of the two sections may not eventuate.
In the formation of an alliance between the two
bodies great mutual benefits would undoubtedly re-
sult.
It is an extraordinary transformation. Up
till yesterday, or the day before, the average
Australian pressman excused his acquies-
cence to hours of duty that would have made
a blackfellow fight, and wages that were a
miserable recompense, by the frequent and
free use of the gag “loyalty to the paper” ;
and if the manager was a person, with the
hide of a sawmill boiler, and the soul of a
pawnbroker when the question of rises in
salaries was mooted, the pressman merely
cursed under his breath and slogged on with
(1) energy that was expected to have steam
turned full-on from sun-up to sun-up. if
necessary; (2) ability to meet and handle
any and every emergency from the explana-
tion of a local or political tangle to a
reasonably intelligent article on the right
of the ancient Jews to occupy the land of
Canaan; (3) ox-like patience that made him
appear content to see his family only when
they were asleep; (4) resource, tact, per-
sonal fearlessness and any other article of
equipment that the occasion called for; (5)
a sufficiently asinine temperament to stand it
all. But in a puff of sudden intelligence, the
Australian pressman has decided that the
old game is not good enough, and that it is
urgently desirable that new rules should be
provided forthwith, or as near to forthwith
as possible. Twenty-four hours a day won’t
do any longer as the time within which a
reporter shall be liable and ready for duty,
the holidays in a year will have to look less
like the plums in a workhouse duff, and the
pavment for services rendered will be re-
quired to put on a bit of weight in order to
make a fairer fight with the grasping rent-
lord and the fat food rings. And if the
wealthy papers of Australia say they cannot
afford to make the required improvements,
there doesn’t seem to be much doubt that
they will be invited to prove it. Which
will be a job of some magnitude.
How Good Men Are Made Criminals.
As a general thing, the legal principle that
an embezzler deserves gaol is sound enough.
But there are exceptions to the rule: in fact,
cases crop up from time to time, where the
man who is technically a criminal has a
claim on the sympathy of the community,
while his “victimised” employer merits
naught but the brick of scorn. Such a case
was advertised at the Adelaide Criminal
Sittings, the other day. According to the
Register (4/10/T1), William Gods-
maark pleaded guilty to having embezzled a
considerable sum. In the words of the prose-
cuting firm’s own counsel: —
Accused had been in South Australia for 30 years,
and until recentlv had enjoyed a first-class character,
and the confidence of his employers. He had ex-
cellent testimonials to hear that out. . . .He had an
invalid wife, whom he had been regularly support-
ing, and a comparatively young family. Accused’s
wife was 63 years of age, and suffering from heart
disease, which might prove fatal at any moment....
Godsmaark was paid £1 a week, and allowed 15
per cent, commission on his sales. The wages had
averaged £3 16s. 9d., and accused stated that the
maintenance of two horses used in the van for hawk-
ing the goods, and his own travelling expenses
totalled from £2 to £2 10s. per week.
Here was a middle-aged man, in one of the
most prosperous States of the most prosper-
ous country on earth, who was asked, in a
manner of speaking, to keep himself, an in-
valid wife and four children, on a wage
which works out —after deducting the cost of
horse-feed and travelling expenses—at fl
11s! 9d. per week. It was tantamount to
expecting a trainer to get a Cup favorite into
hard condition on a quart of water and two-
penn’orth of chaff per diem. The most as-
tute of financiers, the most resolute of econo-
mists, would be baffled by such a problem.
When it is understood that the half-starved
Godsmaark had over £lOOO worth of goods
to handle at a time, the question arises
whether some law ought not to be framed
making it a criminal offence for big business
firms to deliberately manufacture criminals,
as in this case, by rendering men desperate
and then putting them in the way of temp-
tation. Europe elevated its hands in pious
horror the other day. at the following de-
scription, by a German authority, of the
wav the Brazilian rubber-collectors live
The seringueiros (rubber collectors) of the Amazon
district, Brazil, are mostly recruited from the States
of Ceara and Maranhao. The wastage from death,
sickness and desertion is very high. The serin-
gueiro’s profit never amounts to more than £5O or
£6O, which, as a rule, is barely sufficient to cover
the living expenses of his family during his absence
at the seat of operations, and very often he remains
in debt to the owner or sub-owner of the seringal.
Thanks to the soulless methods of Private
Enterprise, in those commercial byways
where our industrial laws have not yet
penetrated, there are Australians to-day
whose lot is no better than that of the
rubber-collectors of South America. The
Brazilian’s family is liable to starve while
he is away working. So is the family of
the South Australian of 30 years’ standing,
with “a first-class character and the confi-
dence of his employers.” It is the per-
sistent recurrence of cases like Gods-
maark’s which causes “Anti-Socialism” to
look not merely futile, but vile and immoral
and unclean.
*
The Yell for Artisans.
The N.S.W. Commission, appointed to in-
quire into the alleged shortage of workmen,
reported, the other day,'that there was room
for 3000 more artisans; and, almost simul-
taneously, the president of the Master
Builders’ Union implored young men to
come along and learn to be masons and car-
penters and bricklayers. There probably is
a considerable shortage of labor in the build-
ing trade at the moment —to this extent,
that various people want to rush things, and
there isn’t the labor available to meet the rush.
The State Government alone is raising the
wind at the rate of about £5,000,000 a
year, and a great part of that money is going
in wages. Nobody supposes that that wild
loan boom can last; to continue to borrow
£5,000,000 a year is unthinkable. And
when it stops, and the artisans and others
who depended on it are sacked, there won’t
be any scarcity in the building trade —there
probably will be a superfluity. A country
that deliberately encourages booms, by bor-
rowing madly, and thus creating an arti-
ficial but quite temporary demand for labor,
must expect to suffer from shortage of sup-
plies ; and if it does any equally wild thing
in the way of importing men to meet the
boom demand, it will inevitably have an un-
employed surplus when it wakes up with a bad
head in the morning, and finds that it can’t
put its lOU on the market any more, and
that the bottom has dropped out of the
wonderful prosperity overnight. Australia
wants population, and wants it worse, per-
haps, than any other country in the world,
but it doesn’t want its lads turned on to the
building trades, for instance, in quantities
sufficient to meet the demands of master
builders who are working under inflated
conditions. There was the same disastrous
inflation in the late ’Bo’s, and the Sydney
brickworks had an annual output of over
225,000,000 bricks. The master builders
yelled for apprentices to the building trades.
But the Great Drunk ended ; the State’s ac-
commodation from Uncle, which had reached
£4,750,167 in 1891, shrivelled to about a
million, and there was such a slump in the
building trades that, whereas 225,000,000
bricks didn’t meet the supply while the
bubble was growing, the total output was
only 92,113,000 in 1894. The fact is, this
country hasn’t yet learned how to grow
steadily and rationally. It depends so much
on “the great primary industries,” and “the
great primary industries” are so erratic,
that it is either a feast or a famine. When
it is a feast, and money is plentiful, there
is a boom in buildings and other construction
works, and the Government mostly makes
matters worse by fleeing headlong to the
pawnbrokery, and spending wildly. When
it is a famine, the construction boom stops,
and a big part of the population finds that
it has been seduced by big wages into trades
and other callings which, to a great extent,
only exist during booms. Under the circum-
stances, the best thing to do is to disregard
the howl for more artisans in the building
and allied trades. There may be buildings
hung up for want of labor; but, even with
the present supply, it is just as certain as
anything can be that presently there will be
a whole lot of labor hung up for want of
buildings. There is certainly an urgent and
permanent demand for very many thousands
of skilled workers—to make here, under de-
cent Australian conditions, the immense mass
of goods that this country now imports : but
until there is a very large repairing of the
tariff, the importation of unlimited artisans
would only mean wholesale reduction of
wages, or the manufacture on wholesale
principles of an unemployed class. And it
is a long and weary job waiting for that re-
pair of the tariff.
The 4ft. B&in. Railway.
A few lines from “Henky Horsecollar” :
If the last week’s Parliamentary debates count for
anything, the 4ft. 84in. gauge is going to be ac-
cepted for the transcontinental railway to the West.
Apparently, it will be accepted without investiga-
tion, simply because it is the British and United
States gauge, and because the infallible Ma State
followed their example, and adopted it. The broad
gauge isn’t likely to be even inquired into, and, as
for the Brennan mono-rail, which may yet relegate
all the gauges to the scrap-heap, it doesn’t get so
much as a mention, because it is new, and all new
things are accursed. The proposed arrangement is
rather rough on some of the States, when the history
of Australian railway-building is considered. First,
the 4ft. 84in. gauge was agreed upon by N.S.W.,
Victoria and S.A. Then N.S.W. ' lunged its mind,
and clamored for the Irish (sft. 3iu. 1 gauge—clam-
ored so bitterly that the other Stale! 1 assented. And
when Victoria* and S.A. were hard at work building
according to the 6ft. 3in. gauge, which N.S.W. had
insisted upon, and Victoria had got one line com-
pleted and working, N.S.W. changed its mind again,
went back to the 4ft. 84in. idea, and, without even
the empty politeness of an apology, started the dis-
crepancy which has cursed Australia ever since. It
was the same old story as in the matter of the Aus-
tralian capital and other instances—the story of
N.S.W.’s utter inability to keep faith. Meanwhile, it
is a notable circumstance that the 4ft. 84in. gauge
isn’t gaining ground throughout the world to any
great extent, though it is still far ahead of its rivals.
In 1885 it represented 74 per cent, of the world's
lines, while narrower gauges stood for 14 per cent.,
and broad ones for 12 per cent. In 1910 the 4ft.
84in. gauge stood for only 71 per cent, of the world’s
lines, and broad gauge railways had increased till
they represented 14-J per cent. The 4ft. 81in. gauge
is really the standard in only two countries of great
importance. These countries were the first railway
builders, so they had no experience to guide them,
and were thus extra-liable to make blunders. And
they are countries which stick solidly to private
railway ownership, so unless Prime Minister Fishf.r
believes in private ownership, he can hardly profess
to believe that Britain and the U.S. are infallible.
He may be right, but it is a pity that he doesn’t
take a little more trouble to make sure that he is
right.
The Old Men and the New.
“G. 11.” offers a few observations: —
The Sydney Worker lately rose to the occasion
with a series of anti-immigration article by one
Newton Wanliss, and gave a considerable amount
of space thereto. Newton Wanliss was solid all
through on the necessity for keeping Australia empty
as long as possible. This particular item struck me
as the keynote of his policy:—
“To admit indiscriminately to the full rights of
Australian citizens, hordes of assisted immigrants
who have done nothing towards building up the Com-
monwealth, is about as equitable as to ask a man
who has spent a quarter of a century in arduously
building up a lucrative business to receive into that
business on equal terms a partner who is not paying
anything for the privilege.”
Now, I rather admire that attitude ; still it is best
to leave off generalities and come down to details.
The early Australian settlers used up most of the
gold—especially the easily-won gold—and had a
fairly good time on it while it lasted. Nowadays,
the gold output is less than it was in 1856, and it is
no longer mostly alluvial metal that the casual
person can dig out single-handed with a pick and
shovel. Then, the best of the land is sold. The days
of free grants are over. The new arrival no longer
gets a few acres just outside Sydney or Melbourne
casually thrown at him. And all the millions that
were obtained by land sales have been used as rev-
enue, so that there is little or nothing to show
for them. The debt is enormous, and while the
remunerative public works are mortgaged up to the
eyes, there remains a very considerable amount of
debt which is represented bv no remunerative public
works whatsoever. Taxation is higher than it ever
was before, because the interest bill must be paid,
and the simple, lazy, easy process of living on the
proceeds of land sales is nearly at an end. The new
arrival doesn’t come here merely to collect a divi-
dend, like the man who is “received into a lucrative
business on easy terms.” He comes to pay heavier
taxes than ’did *the early settlers ; to carry the rifle
which they didn’t carry, because Australia is now up
against a danger that the early arrivals never had to
reckon with ; to help pay off the loan money which
they used for revenue purposes ; and to find that they
have consumed the best of the sudden-wealth chances
in the shape of free land and easily-accessible gold.
So, though this is a much better country than the
one he left, there is something to be said on the side
of the desirable immigrant. The old hands shouldn’t
put on too many airs about what they have done in
building up the Commonwealth. Digging up surface
gold was easy. Selline- ownerless land was easier.
Borrowing money was easiest of all. The old hands
were on the easiest wicket in all history. Anyhow,
unless many more white men come here to defend
Australia, or are willing to defend Australia without
coming here, there is a poor prospect ahead. Let
the world be informed that this “lucrative business”
has no defenders, and will have no defenders, save
its present owners, and the “man who spent a quar-
ter of a century in arduously building it up” is
likely to find the whole thing taken from him very
shortly. The congestion policy has planted so much
of the business in two or three handy places beside
the sea-shore that it is altogether too accessible.
Lastly, I would like to know where the line is to be
drawn between the people who are rightly here and
the people who wrongly want to be here. A consider-
able proportion of the people arrived here rather re-
cently, and were taken into the “lucrative business,”
and some of these now object to anyone else coming
in. Attorney-General Hughes, for instance, arrived
in 1884, when other people had been toiling about a
century in building up the “lucrative business.” I
arrived earlier than that. Premier McGowen
(N.S.W.) got here in 1855. When did Mr. Newton
Wanliss happen along?
The Fisher Government has introduced, an
Electoral Act Amending Bill, and Fat gives
himself away badly by being very angry
about it. Mainly, the Bill aims at securing
a genuine expression of the electors’ opinion
—to which end the measure proposes to re-
peal voting by post (which often meant vot-
ing bv an interested proxy), and allows the
elector, in place thereof, to vote personally
anv time after the writ is issued. Also, it
stipulates that every organisation, associa-
tion, league or body of persons, or any per-
Song of the Cow Slave.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Past four o’clock, the stars is up, an’ like-
wise Dave an’ Joey.
Oh! Holy Smoke, there’s little Sue ! —she
might ’ave slept a w’ile !
Pore kid« ! They earns their bit o’ grub!
(Whoa back! Bail up there, Snowy!)
An’ all to ’elp their mean ole Dad ’eap up ’is
blasted pile !
I often thinks it’s flamin’ ’ard th’ way them
kids is treated —
(Stand over there, yeh mongrels! Where's
tli’ legrope got ter now?)
Never gets a bit ter eat till milkin’ is com-
pleted—
Never sees a school or church, but Cow, Cow,
Cow !!
Vows, cows, cows! —cast yer optic on ther
sows !
Black an’ w’ite an’ brindle cows,, an’ cows
both fat an’ lean ;
Spotted cows an’ speckled cows,
fyoan an’ red, an’ freckled cows;
Short’orns, Jerseys, Ayrsliires, " Alongs” an’
crosses in between!
Quite often in th’ camp at night me mind's
made up ter chuck it;
But some’ow, in th’ mornin', I’m toilin' in
th’ dust;
I never get a chance ter leave! {Lift up!
Don’t kick ther bucket!)
An’ all me resolutions, made ther night be-
fore, are bust!
Yet ev’ry night, in that ole bunk, I chew th’
dashed thing over;
An’ ev’ry night, it seems ter me, I make th’
same old vows ;
When I sleep, I dream th’ cows are stuffin’
in th’ clover!
Strike me pink, it’s nothin’ else but cows,
cows, cows !
Cows, cows, cows! — ev’ry sort th’ law
allows !
Cows with sores an’ lumpy jaw, an’ cows
with crumpled horns!
Stumpy cows, an’ lanky cows;
Stupid cows, an’ cranky cows;
Cross-eyed cows, an’ crippled cows, an’ cows
with warts an’ corns.
I wish them blokes wot gas erbout “Th’
Dand,” an’ “Milk an’ Honey”—
An’ likewise them as makes up rhymes
erbout th’ “Milky Way,”
Was graftin’ ’ere where fifteen bob is thought
er lot of money—
Yes, fifteen bob er week —fer coves that’s
toilin’ night an’ day !
Lor’ bless me, but th’ magpie wouldn’t wake
them with ’is warnin’!
Th’ cow boss beats th’ magpie, an’ ’e makes
much louder rows!
An’ them winds they call th’ “balmy breezes
of th’ mornin’ ”
Mixes pigsty hoo-kay with ther cows, cows,
cows !
Cows, cows, cows —how I ’ate tli’ flamin’
sows !
I ’ate the black an’ brindle cows, an’ cows
that’s w’ite an’ broion!
Coves wot milks ’is cranky cows!
f will chuck th’ blanky cows!
I will roll Matilda up an’ do er bunk ter
to wn ! !
VICTORIA.
THOMAS T. TIERNEY.


TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
Ist. A reliable projection machine.
2nd. The Best and Most Reliable Film
Service in Australia.
3rd. To Trade with a Firm who will
Give You Prompt Attention and
Study Your Interests.
PLACE YOUR ORDERS WITH US,
and you will get satisfaction.
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLIfIGTON.NZ.
NEWS FROM SEA LAKE (VIC.).
We are indebted to Mr. Dan O’Connor for the fol-
lowing letter: “Last winter my son and I were at-
tacked with dreadful colds. My boy was so bad he
could not attend school. I decided to give Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy a trial, and it was highly
successful. My cold was cured in one night, and I
feel mighty grateful to know that such a Cough
Remedy as Chamberlain’s can be purchased at such
a reasonable price.*
SHOWMEN ! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
OIL ENGINES
The Simplest.
The Most Reasonable in Price.
The Most Economical in 0/7.
For All Purposes, and up to
Any Power.
And Guaranteed for Five Years.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.,
WORKS: WOOLWICH DOCK, SYDNEY.
SHOWROOMS: 35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
son who has expended money in the interests
of a candidate or political party, must make
a return of the money expended, and all
these returns are to be open for public in-
spection. (Fat calls this “hampering organ-
isation.”) Newspaper owners or publishers
are to furnish returns setting forth how
much of their electoral matter was paid for,
the sums paid, and who paid them. And all
electoral matter that is paid for must be
headed “Advertisement,” so that the
public may not be so easily hood-
winked by it. (Fat calls this “brid-
ling the press.”) Moreover, anyone ex-
hiDiting, or leaving in a polling booth, any
naper containing directions how to vote will
be liable to a £2O fine. There are several
other provisions, but these are the ones that
annoy Fat most, and already he has so far
forgotten himself as to demand that if Lib-
eral leagues are to furnish returns, trades
unions should be made to do so too. The Bill,
of course, doesn’t say anything about Liberal
leagues; it applies equally to Labor and
Tory, or even football leagues, if they indulge
in political effort. But the fact that the
Labor leagues are not crying about it proves
that they don’t fear it. The bleating on the
one side, and the silent indifference, if not
active approval, on the other, are very signi-
ficant.
—
Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, is always
struggling to find new ways of dissipating
money. His latest proposition is to reduce
the pension age under certain circumstances,
to t>o years for men and 55 for women, and
to pension every impecunious widow with
children ac the rate of £l2 for one child, £lB
for two, £24 for three, and a maximum of
£3O for four or more. It is a noble idea, for
this world is a cold place at the best for a
widow with a quiverful of young “encum-
brances.” Still, it is a pity that Joseph
Should run the risk, by building on a founda-
tion of sand, that some harassed successor
will have to abolish his good deeds through
sheer lack of money. Year by year Joseph
shoves his big crazy loan on the English
market, or the Australian market, or any
.other old market that will lend the money.
The loan keeps up the boom, and the boom
keeps up the revenue, for a million of bor-
rowed money may change hands 20 times
during a year till it looks like £20,000,000,
and this borrowed million that looks like
£20,000,000 may easily add a lot more than
a million to the revenue, because nearly
every sovereign in the country passes through
the Treasury once, if not twice, in the course
of 12 months. That is why the failure of a
£2,000,000 loan may make the revenue slump
a lot more than £2,000,000. And then the
gaudy folk who have been buying popularity
by paying lavish pensions out of loans gener-
ally feel themselves due to retire, and some
one else has to take up the sordid struggle to
make ends meet. Always the lavish, whirl-
ing person—the Thomas Mcllwraith, or
DTjncan Gillies, or Julius Vogel, or
Joseph Ward—is called away by business
or increasing venerableness when the loan
boom breaks, and some plain, brown hod-
carrier inherits the job and the ruins. And
blessed is the land which can find the plain,
brown hod-carrier to take charge of the
ruins.
That ill-judged person, N.S.W. Attorney-
General Holman, does himself and his party
no good by refusing to reveal the reasons why
John Dixon, who lately raised some kind of
a dust at Lithgow, was released from prison.
The manner in which Holman dodges the
question is more agile than convincing. Still
less convincing, and not half so agile, is the
bogus wrath of the Opposition over the mat-
ter. One of the wonderful doings of the
Wade Government was the premature release
from gaol of a very unsatisfactory alien. It
didn’t give any good reason for its proceed-
ings ; it didn’t produce the papers; and, ap-
parently, it, or someone on its behalf, went
so far as to burn or swallow the documents
—anyhow, when the new Government went
to look for them, they weren’t there, and
they haven’t been there since. Holman is
foolish to refuse an explanation, seeing how
he and his party blamed Wade and co. on
a somewhat similar occasion, but, on the
other hand, Wade and co. are gifted with
a mountainous impudence to put on airs of
lofty indignation over Holman’s doings. If,
perhaps, 20 years hence, the Wade push
gets back to office, and breaks its aged neck,
and falls over its long Dan O’Connor
beard, in a sprint for the official archives, and
finds on arrival that the papers in Dixon’s
matter have disappeared, then it will have
a right to get moderately angry, on the
ground that its opponents are almost as bad
as itself; and it was so darned bad that for
another person to be nearly as bad is hor-
rible. But its present wrath is premature.
The country has a right to be angry if it
wants to. The Opposition has only a right
to take a back seat.
One Ewing, an earnest but flabbergasted
member of the Tasmanian Legislature, is
cruising around with a Bill to make prefer-
ence to unionists punishable by fine or im-
prisonment. Lie also proposes to abolish the
minimum wage, and establish instead a stan-
dard wage—no one to receive either less or
more without a special permit. A most in-
teresting man is Ewing, though born 300
years too late. Possibly he is a re-incarna-
tion.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Melba Opera Co.
Royal “The Silver King.”
Criterion “Mrs. M'Sweeney.”
Adklphi “ Humping the Bluey.”
Palace “Nobody’s Daughter.”
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Victoria Continuous Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “A Girl’s Temptation.”
Her Majesty’s “ Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.”
Roy al “ The Chocolate Soldier.”
King's “ The Midnight Wedding.”
Glaciarium Taits’Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Town Hall Ben Davies and Esta d’Argo.
♦
Fathers of handsome, well-set-up young
daughters should go to Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney), and there see “Rigoletto,” and mark
the moral, which is, “Keep a bulldog.” Even
a fox-terrier pup—the species that mistakes
the moon for a stray sky-cat, and barks
furiously at its* midnight saunter across the
heavens —would have kept the wicked Duke
out of Iligoletto’s garden. Here, as in other
scenes, Verdi served up all the old traditions
that go to make “Rigoletto” far more effect-
ive as an opera than the modern style of
Puccini’s “Tosca.” The latter lacks the
wealth of chorus singing, which the old style
opera always provided. In “Rigoletto,” the
chorus people, heavily disguised in small
masks, hats, cioaks, satin slippers, etc., hide
themselves outside the walls of Rigoletto’s
house, and do the deed in a fine burst of con-
certed melody. Rigoletto, very slow in the
up-take, has previously opened the garden
gate, and, having no dog, allows the Duke
to slip in, get behind a small bush, and sing-
enchanting ditties to his daughter. Rossi,
as Rigoletto—and the opera is mostly Rigo-
letto —gave a performance of quite unusual
merit from a histrionic point of view on
Monday night, and his make up was a genu-
ine work of art. Vocally, Rossi is an artist
of considerable tonnage, with an occasional
drop below his own best efforts. Melba, as
Hilda, showed no trace of her recent illness
on Monday, but there isn’t enough of Melba-
Gilda to go round, for Verdi keeps the star
soprano out of the first short act of Rigo-
letto, and divides the fat between the Duke
and his jester. The famous “Caro Nome,”
by which Hilda lights up the stairs, as she
goes aloft, in trills, cadenzas and exquisite
flute-like warblings, with a soft shake like
an echo at the end, gives Melba one of her
golden moments. McCormack, as the girl-
hunting Duke, is rather disappointing, and
for the first time this singing season the
tenor fell off his perch as second to, or neck-
and-neck with, Caruso. John is an actor
sometimes, but that time doesn’t happen in
“Rigoletto.” Even the ear-haunting “La
donne e mobile” misses fire, because it needs
temperament as well as voice to give this
passionate lilt 20s. value in the pound. Miss
Voluntas-Ranzenburg, as Maddalena, scat-
ters her beautiful voice over too small a
patch in the fine production of “Rigoletto.”
“LA TOSCA,” AT HER MAJESTYS,
SYDNEY.
Scarpia, the Grand
Opera villain
(Scandiani) and
the comic relief
(Corruccini).
“La Tosca,” with Scandiani as Scarpia,
and Wayda as Tosca, is magnificently staged,
and McCormack-Cavaradossi, on the first
night, was in silvery voice. Scandiani is
(after Melba) the most tiresome person in
the present opera co.’s aviary. He never
makes mistakes, knows his music, never
hangs round the prompter for his lines,
never sings to his friends in the boxes or
stalls (these weaknesses have been observed
in other members of the company, Melba
and Wayda always excepted), and gives a
histrionic and vocal representation of the
villain Scarpia which follows the usual
Scandiani precedent of perfection. Soprano
Jeanne* Wayda, who made a hit or bang in
“Madame Butterfly,” repeated her assaults
in “Tosca,” and caused such a tumult, up-
roar and frenzy amongst the populace, at the
first performance of “Tosca,” that once more
The Bulletin brings her under the eye of
the law for inciting a riot. On the evidence
before the Court, there is a great and won-
derful career before Jeanne Wayda.
Miss Ethel Irving vacates the Criterion
on Friday night, and on Saturday Maggie
Moore is to appear as Mrs. M‘Sweeney,
The lady with the palpably Italian name
was invented by the late T. E. Spencer, who
dropped her into his humorous verse and
sketches. Just before he died, he collabora-
ted with another writer to drop her into a
farcical comedy. The season is limited to a
fortnight.
“ THE
SORROWS
OF
SATAN,”
AT
MELB.
KING’S.
Gits Franks
as
Nicodemus
D. Chesney
(the rail-
way king ).
As a preliminary to the Dago-Turkish
war pictures, that will roll in upon Sydney
presently, “Scenes around Tripoli” were
shown during the week at the Lyric. The
film, a very good one, leaves the geperal im-
pression that a good shelling and a re-build-
ing would be the best thing that could hap-
pen to the town. Pictures of Cavalry man-
oeuvres were also shown, and Puccini’s "La
Bohbme” was the subject of another excel-
lent outburst. “Gaumont Graphic,” at Col-
onial No. 1, showed the 'world’s latest news
in a nutshell, with some North Wales
scenes, to give a touch of the picturesque.
Tue Colonial No. z list included the “Bathe’s
Gazette,” showing current Australian news
in pictures, and the Fogwell-Barry race in
England.
The same old firms are doing business at
the National Amphitheatre. Queen and Le
Brun, the Potter-Llartwell Trio, Will Sulli-
van, Smite and Smote —these appear to have
taken root at the Castlereagh-street song-and-
dance foundry, and their quips are growing
as stale as the apologetics of “Liberalism.”
A “Boy Comedian” and a “Society Reciter”
are also there for such as can endure their
wares.
** * *
“Nobody’s Daughter” is in the fifth week
of her exceeding prosperity at Sydney Palace
Theatre. The co. leaves for Brisbane and
M.L. shortly.
'!• ❖ •!'
“Humping the Bluey” will keep the Mar-
low billy boiling for another week. Then,
“Sweet County Kerry,” headed by Allen
Doone (Irish tenor) and Edna Kelly, will
be thrown open for selection at the Adelphi.
Hs H! % *
“The Speckled Band” is in its last shud-
der, so to speak, at Sydney Royal. On Sat-
urday next “The Silver King” will be inter-
preted at this playhouse, by what the Wil-
liamson management terms “an all star
cast.”
The “Beanstalk” pantomime is a travel-
worn veteran of nearly one year, but it goes
fresh and sprightly at Adelaide Royal in the
hands of Mabelle Morgan and Dorothy
Firmin, with Marie Eaton, an Adelaide
girl, as Fairy Queen. The comedians. Jack
Cannot- —who has an unusually fine ’voice for
such parts—Darrell and Loydall, are learn-
ing that the mere mention of suburban Bow-
den is, for some unknown reason, a “sure
laugh,” William Hassan is a fair Cow when
he isn’t a dark horse, and the extra turns by
the Pantzer troupe and the Doherty sisters
nut ginger into the show. At the Tivoli. McLal-
len has been proving that there is still some-
thing new left to show in roller-skating;
Ossipoff, of the wicked eye and the grand
voice, has been singing; and the Reeces’
musical turn has been mixed with the infant
Reece’s contortionist business. At the King’s,
Beatty and Miss Grimston are now giving
the powerful little “Bishop’s Candlesticks,”
Hassan is conjuring, and Jules Garrison has
come in with his Roman Maids. And at the
Oval, the commercial travellers have friv-
olled wildly, occasionally cleverly and al-
ways successfully, in the cause of Charity.
This annual show had to go to the Oval. It
had grown so much, from a modest begin-
ning, that no other ground was big enough
for it.
Two more nights of “Louis XI.” will dis-
pose of that cruelly dramatised monarch at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.). The play that
Boucicault adapted from the French pre-
sents Louis, in four scenes, as a mere ghastly,
ghostly remnant of his former self, doddering
about in fear of death, and making himself
horribly unpleasant to everybody save two
women characters who have nothing to do
with the case. A previous scene, in which
Louis does not appear, serves to the
audience of the forthcoming apparition, and
to explain that a young man in tin armor,
who brings an official snort from the Duke
of Burgundy, bears also an old family
grudge against his Majesty the Spook. This
grudge he duly pays by seizing the old bundle
of hatred and malice, in an unguarded mo-
ment, and threatening to' kill him. This,
apparently, causes the Dauphin to succeed
to the crown a day or two earlier than had
been expected. The young man from Bur-
gundy is very noisy, as well as violent, and
by the time he has finished sparing i,ouis's
life, there is little life left to speak of. An
air of reality in the Court surroundings, and
of pomp and circumstance in the dialogue
gives a sombre shade of interest to “Louis
X 1.,” especially in the first three acts, or
scenes. Seriously considered, it is a purely
theatrical drama all the same. The dodder-
ing monarch is left alone and unprotected
on his ridiculous last legs whenever he wants
the stage to himself. On the particular
occasion when his assailant is roaring him
into a delirium of funk, the old gentleman
is supposed to be safeguarded at close quar-
ters. Yet the roarer can walk in at one door
and out at another without interruption, nor
does anybody hear a noise until the drama
calls for assistance.
This libellous sketch of a famous French
king has been cleverly drawn in the past, of
course, otherwise the drama would not have
survived. Charles Kean is said to have been
an appallingly crafty, treacherous, humor-
ous, superstitious old Louis, and the late
Henry Irving was admittedly at his best in
Kean’s best parts. lie was reasonable in his
mane up, and subtle in his suggestions of
decrepid fiendishness. LI. B. Irving com-
mands attention only by the frank falsity of
his performance. It is all on the surface,
like the chalk on his face. An ordinary
circus clown is not more pale than was Irv-
ing last Saturday night. Lie provoked smiles
Francis B. Stubbs (Temple Harrison), the
journalist, interviews Satan.
where he was striving after shudders. His
appearance was funny, and at the back of
his feigned venomousness one could almost
detect the amiable mummer enjoying his own
joke. Two or three showy character parts
are noisily played, one of the best-fitted mem-
bers of the co. being Frank Tyars, as the
grim old provost, whilst Tom Reynolds and
Miss Brown have the distinction of introduc-
ing a whiff of comic relief into the play’s one
rural scene. The last week of the Irving
season at Her Majesty’s starts on Saturday,
with “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.” And then
the Opera, with a large O.
“A Girl’s Temptation,” at the Princess's,
continues to rejoice in the fact that it was
written by a woman for women. Anyone
could guess as much without reference to the
advt. There are moments when tue words
■‘Ladies Only” seem to be painted on the
drama’s brow. As, for instance, when the
gentle heroine informs the haughty father of
her partner in impropriety that she hopes
to make him a grandpa, but has not yet men-
tioned the matter to the author of her bud-
ding happiness. Her intention to get
married in the meantime is thwarted by the
scandalous behavior of the villain in the
plum-colored frock coat, and the triumph of
Virtue leaves Mrs. Grundy still wondering
what the world is coming to. Mrs. G., by
the way, is the one member of the sex for
whom women don’t write nowadays.
At the Athenaeum Hall the cheerful Blas-
checx and his tall accomplice, Miss Wrighton.
will shift Nicola, and resume their refined
sitting-room entertainment next Saturday,
under Andersonian management. At the
Town Hall, the fourth concert of Ben Davies
and Esta D’Argo happens on the same even-
ing, and at other halls not previously men-
tioned, the ticket office doubtless will be open
to receive contributions. For next Saturday
is Caulfield Cup night, when all the shows


STECK
One of the World’s
Great PIANOS.
Have you a little room in which you have wished
it were possible to place a Grand PiANO. We have
enabled you to do so. For a half-century we have
patiently experimented to reduce the size and price
.of Grand Pianos, to adapt them to the limited si'ace
and purse of many music-lovers. In the STECK
“Boudoir” we have at last produced a Grand that
meets musically the requirements of the most exact-
ing tore critic. This dainty, beautiful instrument
charms all who hear and see it. Measuring but
sft. Tin. in length, it renders a Grand Piano of the
highest character available even for rooms of limited
space.
The STECK, more than any other Piano, possesses
a rich mellowness of tone, a sympathetic singing
quality, which makes it not only the ideal instru-
ment for the great artist in concert, but also the
best Piano for the home.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
252 COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q.N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
New Shipments of STECKS monthly
in Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut,
Rosewood, Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 23G Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
The Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act.
Sold Everywhere.
Pint Bottles,
1/s
that lay dormant through the winter get on
their hind legs and bang the drum.
Melbourne knows it as the annual occa-
sion for a revival of Wirfchs’ circus. This
vear, the circus makes its first appearance in
a new Hippodrome building of Palatial
Dimensions, and 12 performing Polar bears
will nod their heads at the amazing scene.
Also, 40 humans, including the Pick of the
Earth’s Marvels, will be supported by our
old friend the blood-sweating hippopotamus,
and the rest of the menagerie.
Roy Redgrave is still playing the Devil
at the King’s—a nice, gentlemanly
Devil, who encases his hooves in pa tent-
leathers, _ and wags his tail underneath his
dress suit. Satan is placed in a most em-
barrassing position when the wedded Lady
Sybil comes out of her bedroom in an un-
fastened state, and makes such suggestions
to him as the late Mrs. Potiphar is alleged
to have made to .Joseph, the Canaanite Wow-
ser. Redgrave, happily, proves equal to the
occasion. He pours a cold stream of moral
verbosity upon the lady’s hot, unruly pas-
sion, damping her so much that she commits
suicide in front of a mirror. Then a female
journalist, who is alleged to be “pewer as
the driven snow,” makes love to Mr. Poti-
phar over the corpse of his late missus, and
the Devil, after bestowing a paternal bless-
ing. removes his fur cap, and looking up at
the flies, announces that he is “a step nearer
home.” On Saturday, the bill will be changed
to “The Midnight Wedding,” with Miss
Duggan as the midnight bride.
*Ji jjc 'l* j{c
Ere the next Bulletin has delivered its
message to a listening world, “The Choco-
late Soldiei;” will be no more at Melbourne
Royal. These are the last nights of that sub-
stantially melodious opera and thoroughly
well-built entertainment. Some people have
heard it only once, which is, perhaps, a
worse sin of omission than not having heard
it at all, and to these misguided members of
the Miss Gibbs persuasion The Bulletin
would say: “Have another”; “Repeat the
dose”; “Wet the other ear.” On Saturday
(28th), the Irving co. will shift to the Royal
from Her Majesty’s, for the purpose of rob-
bing “The Lyons Mail” five times before pro-
ceeding to Adelaide. But, in the meantime,
an amateur co. of great social weight and
proud distinction will play “The Importance
of Bfeing Earnest” for one consecutive night.
This event will transpire (n.v.) on Friday,
the 27th.
At Spencer’s, Melbourne, last week, was
the yarn of Henry VIII. and Catherine
Howard, which was very pleasing on its fem-
inine side. The Miss Howard of cinema-
tograph fiction is a lady with fetching con-
tours and a smile of many meanings. Her
very best smile is probably intended to sug-
gest infidelity. “The New Faith,” Spencer’s
other star drama, belonged to the Mercia and
Marcus Outrageous school of melodrama. It
told the old, old story of the noble Dago
who dropped his sins and good feeding for
prayer and snuffle among a herd of old Ro-
man Wesleyans.
“Lex” writes; —
As the N.S.W. legal profession looks at it, At-
torney-General Holman’s only offence in ordering
the release of the Lithgow striker, Dixon, lay in the
fact that he disclosed that Judge Hey don had re-
commended the step. Nothing is more necessary, if
justice is to be done in such cases, than that the
Judge should be protected by having his name kept
out of them. So strongly did the late Chief Justice
Darley feel on the subject, that, on the
Reid Government taking steps to make public a
report of his on a capital case, he threatened that,
it it did, he would never make another report so
long as any member of the Ministry held office. G.
B. Simpson adopted a similar attitude on another
occasion. The reason is obvious. These reports
are necessarily of the most confidential character.
They may contain reflections on the conduct
of the case by the Crown; they may point
to incompetence on the part of the defending
counsel or the attorney instructing him, or both;
they -may impute corruption, ignorance or bias to
the jury or to the witnesses. Obviously, if the
prisoner is to get a fair run for his freedom, the
Judge'; in his comments to the Minister for Justice,
must have the same feeling of certainty as to his
remarks not being disclosed that the penitent in the
Confessional has.
Holman, it would seem, hastened to “give away”
the fact that Heydon had recommended the exercise
of the prerogative in regard to Dixon,, by way of
scoring off the Wade party, which freed the Syrian
abortionist, Ben Habdait, on the eve of the last
elections, without consulting any Judge in regard
to the merits of the case. It may have been good
political tactics, but it was not playing the game, so
far as Heydon was concerned. A stronger man
than Holman would have followed the Judge’s re-
commendations and, strong in the consciousness of
duty done, carried the whole burden of blame—
assuming that any materialised—on his own shoul-
ders.
Speaker Willis, in the N.S.W. Assembly,
after a wearying course of vulgar insolence
from Opposition members :
The House will see how difficult my position is.
owing to the unruliness of the hon. member (Wood),
the veiled insults to the Chair, and the disregard of
the dignity of the House, It is a most difficult posi-
tion in which I am placed, and I must ask hon.
members to protect me against personal insult.
Subsequently, the Bega branch of the Liberal
Ass. carried a motion “expressing approval
of Mr. W. H. Wood’s conduct in Parlia-
ment recently, and their unbounded confi-
dence in him.” Which, coming from the
people who elected Wood, shows the sort of
people that Wood represents.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Stargazer”: Stirling Whyte, the veteran act-or
who died at the Barrier the other day, was a mild
man of regular and methodical habits, and even
those who thought they knew him best believed he
was perfectly, content to go on playing Methuselah
till the end of the scene. But about four years ago,
when he was 70, I heard him confess: “I want to
play Romeo. I have always wanted to play Romeo.
For 40 years I was told 1 was too young to play it.
If I don’t get my chance soon, these d —d managers
will be telling me I am too old.”
“0.K.”: Harry Rickards is said to have come to
Australia for the first time in 1870, when he
warbled ditties of the “Captain Jinks” order to an
admiring world. But it was not until the end of
1885 that he carried out his design of running his
own show in these latitudes. ’Arry arrived with a
Rickards-Leete combination (Mrs. Rickards being
the Kate Leete thereof), and they nlayed a two-act
farce called “Bric-a-Brac,” in which every member
of the small co. appeared in various parts, and sang
or danced frequently, the dominant Harry being
rarely off the stage. A while later he was associ-
ated with the Cogill Brothers in a mixed show, the
Cogills figuring as managers. Then, after one or
two trips back to Britain during the time he was
building up a bank account, Rickards made a start
as a permanent manager in Sydney—converting the
old unpromising Garrick into the Tivoli. In 1895 he
was strong enough to extend his operations to Mel-
bourne, and he took the old Opera House for just as
long as the Board of Health would allow it to be
inhabited. In those days, Geo. H. Wood and Ada
Delroy were Harry’s principal rivals in greatness
on the bill'l of fare. Winton, the ventriloquist,
and Johnny' Coleman came soon afterwards. The
Rickards wicket had been good from the start, and
it improved rapidly. In ’96 or ’97 the energetic
old “lion comique” imported a high-class vaudeville
co., with the new biograph as a chief attraction,
this spec, being quite apart from his ordinary Syd-
ney and Melbourne entertainment. Whilst he was
renting the Bijou, as well as the Opera House, in
Melbourne, he imported Charles Cartwright and
Co. to play “Moths,” and a couple of brilliant come-
dies by R. C. Carton. With this co., by the way,
Arthur Styan came to Australia. The engagement
of Pattie Browne, who returned to Australia as
the heroine of “The Little Minister,” was another
of Harry’s unprofitable endeavors. Outside of the
never-failing music-hall business, Rickards had no
luck in theatrical speculation. He staged two very
good pantomimes, and probably lost by them. The
old, reliable variety show was his money-getter all
the time. Once he was threatened with powerful
opposition by an American co. engineered by Henry
Lee, but Harry rushed off to Europe, engaged a
new “host of talent,” regardless of expense, and
presently knocked the rival concern into oblivion.
Dog-fanciers in Melbourne are grieved to hear that
the noblest tyke of their acquaintance—the champion
St. Bernard —has been guilty of an unprovoked
assault on its owner. Jules Grant, business manager
for Billodrama Anderson, is the owner. Until a few
days ago the relations between the dawg and its master
were amicable, and then, for some reason or other —•
indigestion or “nerves,” or temporary insanity, per-
haps—the mighty brute went for Grant with all its
mouth and main. His brother came to his rescue
before any portions of his face were actually re-
moved, but, in the meantime, the hundredweight of
dog-meat had been playing havoc with his amiable
expression. Just now he shows a number of bite-
marks, in addition to some which are covered with
sticking-plaster. than that, Jules suffers from
a conviction that his prize-winner and he will have
to live apart for the future. The animal having
turned dog on him, he could never more look at his
teeth without thinking of the awful moment when his
head seemed to be coming off.
“0.K.”: Compared with “Curley” Bellew and many
others, H. B. Irving is but a tame reproducer of his
father’s mannerisms. Thirty years ago and there-
abouts the profesh, for a time, was obsessed with
a weird spirit of mimicry. Young men-members of
the Bateman Co., what time Henry Irving was its
high-salaried star, and the same young men and
others who supported him after he became his own
manager, were slaves to the habit of talking, walk-
ing and posing like the “chief.” More or less like
him. One of his closest mimics was A. W. Pinero,
the dramatist- —tall, thin and angular. If Pinero,
who played minor parts, had to come along previous
to the star’s advent on the scene, his general re-
semblance to Henry Irving was always liable to
bring him a burst of misguided applause. More
than one of Pinero’s young contemporaries in the
co. had to leave it on account of their half-uncon-
scious imitations of the leading man; they detracted
from the oddity of Irving’s original personality.
Older men in other companies became imitators, if
they had a natural bent that way, and'a very strik-
ing actor, named Floekton, practically ruined his
chance of getting good London engagements by re-
moulding his mannerisms on Irvingesque lines.
Floekton went to America, and died there. Kyrle
Bellew, who may be said to have been a graceful
dandy mimic of his old boss at the Lyceum, gave
Australia some very forceful fugitive suggestions of
the real Irving at his best. But Bellew was com-
paratively small and nretty, whereas H. B. Irving
is rather tall, and not at all pretty. In fact, he is
not nearly so picturesque in facial expression and
figure, or in his posing, as the father whom he re-
sembles.
From London: The Earl of Yarmouth, who will
be remembered in Australia as an unspeakable skirt-
dancer, has been undergoing his public examination
in the London Bankruptcy Court—the second time
he has gone up the spout. He has been trying
poultry-farming lately, and one of his few available
assets reads this way: "‘Stock of fowls, £7.” The
poultry lured him on to write a farmyard play—-
“The Pigeon House” —and he lost £l5OO by pro-
ducing it at the Court Theatre. He owes seven
Jewish money-lenders £17,000, but swears he only
got £ 4000-odd. The rest of the debt represents in-
terest, premiums, commissions, etc. His father, the
Marquis of Hertford, has been allowing him £3OO
a year, but that wasn’t enough to keep him and the
other poultry. Still, he hoped to pay off his liabili-
ties when he came into the estate —he was “antici-
pating the early death of his father.” Pleasant
reading for the old man!
“Adelaide”: “Marguerite Ismay” and her girls are
at the King’s, Adelaide. She is advertised as having
created a sensation in England. The latest London
papers describe “Margaret Ismay” as playing lead
in “The Chocolate Soldier” at the Lyric there. Two
of them, perhaps.
“S.T.S.”: Can’t understand why The Bulletin
(28/9/’ll) calls the late Miss Eastlake “angular.”
I saw her in the original “Pink Dominoes,” and
through all Wilson Barrett’s earlier successes—
“ Lights of London,” “Claudian,” “Silver King,” etc.
As an actress she was charming. And physically—
well, W.B. himself told me much later, in Australia,
that extreme stoutness had caused her retirement
(he said nothing about insanity) at the age of 35.
William Arrowsmith Ryan, who died in Melb.
Hospital, last week, aged 84, first appeared in Aus-
tralia as an actor of heavy villains in the early 'so’s,
lie played with Brooke, in Geelong, on G.V.B.’s
first visit there, and was Brooke’s understudy at the
old Royal, in Bourke-street. G.Y.B. was often in-
disposed, and Ryan took many of his “turns.” In
the first ’6o’s he went with Clarence Holt to Maori-
land, and open <1 the theatre at Dunedin. Just pre-
viously, he had been part of the backbone of George
Fawcett’s management at the old Princess’s; the
company included Clarence Holt, Hoskins, Fawcett
(3), Milne, Rosa Dunn, Miss Montrose (Mrs. Ryan,
who is still living), R'ay and wife, Miss Bush (who
married George Collier)’, and many other mummers of
note.
“Mime”—his tribute': Harry Rickards was one of
the few managers that I ever met, saw or heard of —
in fact, I may sav he was one of the few of his class
in the world —who never made the beginning of a
pretence at a flirtation with any of his female em-
ployees. The reputation of the average entrepreneur,
in this regard, is rotten. In the big European con-
tinental cities it is practically impossible for an
operatic, vaudeville or other artist to bourgeon into
a “star” unless she first goes through the formula of
“being friendly with the manager” ; and she has
little hope, in most cases, of keeping her place in
the firmament unless she is satisfied to go on doing
so with him, or with someone else in authority. It
is much the same in America and the United King-
dom. A frequent remark of one of London’s leading
actor-managers is: “I divide my lady artists into
two groups; those I have kissed, and those I propose
to kiss when I get time.” And no one ever hoots
the sentiment; for the obvious is a thing that people
do not trouble to hoot. Harry Rickards had heaps of
little weaknesses. He was absurdly, vain; he was
ostentatious; his dress effects #ere calculated to
make the plain man wince ; and so on ; but, even in
those censorious haunts where spurned pros, gather
for the purpose of absorbing beervand denouncing the
entire managerial tribe, it has never, to my know-
ledge, been alleged that he so much as looked side-
ways, in a dishonorable manner df speaking, at any
of the host of fair damsels he employed in his time.
Jules Grant, manager for Anderson at the King’s
Theatre (Melbourne), who came off worst in a dis-
agreement with a pet tyke the other day, and had
his face woefully gnawed, has a grievance against
Redgrave. As the gentle hero, in his own
version of “The Sorrows of Satan,” Redgrave is
reminded nightly of how, on one occasion, a dog had
flown at his throat. “Yes,” he replies, “dogs are
honest. They are good judges of character.” This
leaves poor Grant, with his face in a sling, no option
but to reward the dog and kick himself.
The deceased Harry Rickards made two or three
trips to Australia before finally settling down in
Sydney, at the end of the ’Bo’s. Had it not been
for a disagreement with the lessee of the old Opera
House, in King-street, with whom he was working on
a percentage basis, he would probably not have settled
down at all, at this end anyhow. The result of the
wrangle was that Rickards, against a lot of well-
intentioned advice, leased the Garrick, in Castle-
reagh-street, in 1893, and has been on the s'te ever
since, reaping a fortune. When the old Garrick was
burned down, the present Tivoli was erected, and,
in turn, the “king of vaudeville” became proprietor
of the Melbourne Opera House, Adelaide Tivoli and
the Perth Palace. As' a performer in the English
halls, Rickards made hits with a number of comic
songs, notably “His Lordship Winked at the
Counsel” and “Hi ti tiddly hi.” After that came
Australia. Rickards was the embodiment of a
square deal, a good sport, and, perhaps best of all,
a man whose coin did not clink aloud when he
passed it on to the downhearted and the needy. The
actual amount he gave away in that direction will
never be known. Probably the happiest day in his
year was Christmas Day, when he gave a dinner to
the poor of Sydney, in the Town Hall. There, in
between spells of parsing plates and loading young-
sters with indigestibles, he listened to hard-luck
stories, and did what he - thought the fair thing.
And generally it was a very fair thing.
“Kobbi”: Australian parents spend a big lump
on the musical training of their children ; yet when
they desire to get a certificate of proficiency, the
onlv colleges which conduct examinations are those
that hang out their shingles in Fogland. Moreover,
in spite of our Melbas and Graingers, we can’t even
examine the few youngsters in the elementary sec-
tions, but must import Smith-hyphen-Jones with a
haw in his voice and a monocle in his eye to do the
job. It’s pretty rotten, isn’t it?
The Vic. Artists’ Society’s Annual Displa y
In its exhibition of some 200 pictures—ex-
clusive of miniatures—the Victorian Artists’
Society, this year, offers few attractions to a
public that takes no personal interest in
painters, and looks only for results. At the
far end of the Athenaeum Hall (upstairs),
which serves for the V.A.S. gallery, nowa-
days, a vast, broad-framed picture, by J.
Ford Paterson, is notable mainly for its
size. The subject is Catani Lake, Buffalo
Mountains, treated in the artist’s typical,
low-toned manner—a painting with no force
in it. Flat, stale and unprofitable, from a
commercial point of view, but soothing to
any eye that lias previously been staggered
by the amazing color freaks of, say, Tom
Carter’s "Reflections,” hanging on the same
wall. The lady in this and in another pic-
ture from the same hand, might be pleasing
but for her gaudy environment, ilis worn
suggests a sane, capable draughtsman who
has lost his color senses and gone on a “jag”
of contrasts. One of the few redeeming fea-
tures _of the show is Max Meldrum’s
“Jennie” (No. 32), the head of an ugly
woman, painted on old-masterly lines and
well worth considering for its Rembrandtian
appeal to human interest, Realism is lack-
ing in the face of Bernard Hall's portrait of
a lady, titled "The Pheasant Hat.” The
hat is all right; the painting of the gloved
hand shows the craftsman’s talent for tak-
ing pains, but the face has no truth in its
tint. A nude, reclining figure by the same
Bernard Hall, at the opposite end of the
room, is unworthy of him. The figure seems
even faulty in drawing, the pose is ultra
buttocky, the flesh painting unfinished, and
the blue-greeny reflection on the model’s
stomach is obviously overdone. His head
and bust of an Anglo-Jap girl shows Ber-
nard Hall in his most trying mood. The
face is convincing enough, but a browny-red
ribbon in the girl’s hair, and a dead blue
kimono, bound with a purple violet sash,
contrast horribly with a smudgy mauve
background, whilst the waist is embedded in
a setting of pale green bile. Two of Rupert
Bunny’s portraits challenge criticism, be-
cause £5OO of the Felton Bequest money was
recently expended in the purchase of a pic-
ture by this well-befriended artist. One of
them (No. 113) is a full length portrait of
Mrs. Archibald Currie. The flimsy mauve
gown is well painted, the hat is bad, the
face beneath the hat has an air of strengtn
in the portraiture, and the picture, as a
whole, is ridiculous. There is not a reason-
able suggestion of a slim figure inside the
dress. Mrs. Currie’s full length portrait ter-
minates practically at the face. Fred McCub-
bin hangs his best effort, thus far, in clothed
figure painting. The full length portrait of
his wife (No. 10) may be a trifle out in the
lines of the lady’s admirable neck, but it is
generally satisfactory, and pleasantly strik-
ing. There are life in the black-robed figure,
charm in the face, and art without ugliness
in the making of the picture. “The Quarry”
(66), by McCubbin, less Turneresque than
his “Flood Waters” (11), is a very likeable
thing. A daring impression of Henley-on-the-
Yarra at night, with fireworks “going off” in
the darkness, hangs to the credit of Ambrose
Patterson, whose “Henley in the Afternoon”
is an ambitious failure. A portrait by the
same artist of his brother is a successful
attempt to give serious picturesque effect to
a soldier in scarlet tunic and preposterous
busby. This is a difficult subject, cleverly
dealt with. Charles Wheeler has a pleasing
study of a wicked-looking lady in a long,
light cloak, marred by the feeble suggestion
of a gloved hand holding her hat; also, an
imposing full length portrait of Chief Jus-
tice Madden in fancy dress, which is satis-
factory as regards the headpiece only. One
of Alf Fisher’s, not being allegorical, is very
acceptable; a landscape, by Officer, escapes
the wide sweep of disapprobation ; and here
and there among the trivial things hung on
the screens there is something worth buying.
Withers is not well represented, but his prin-
cipal contribution is at least respectable. As
a rule, the more promising landscapes of im-
mature artists are rather too big for the
subject, whilst the exhibits of the less prom-
ising students’ deserve nothing but bad lan-
guage. Certainly the outlook for the V.A.S.,
is not hopeful.
From the Cold Tea point of view, Maine
has gone Bung.
The spot from which McDouall Stuart
started, just 50 years ago, on his successful
expedition across the continent from Adel-
aide to the Indian Ocean, is now owned by
Advektisek Bonython, who intends to erect
a commemorative tablet there.
While the Federal railway from Port
Augusta to Kalgoorlie was under discussion,
Bruce Smith and some others shouted to the
effect that the States through which the line
was built —S.A. and Westralia —ought to
hand over to the Commonwealth, free of
charge, a strip of land 25 miles wide, along
the route of the railway. It seems a pity
that Bruce Smith didn’t think of that idea a
little earlier, and propose that N.S.W. should
hand over to the Commonwealth a strip of
land 25 miles wide along the route of the
Federal railway from Yassberra to Jervis
Bay. It isn’t too late for Smith to make the
proposal now.
KINKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world doesn’t want the perfect actor ; it pre-
fers one with a few kinks that it can hang its after-
noon tea-talk on. — “0.K.” (B. 21/9/’ll).
A perfect mummer, nobly planned,
Is one we really cannot stand;
We very much prefer the brand
Of fair to middling pros. ;
At teas, described as “afternoon,”
Above the noise of cup and spoon,
You’ll hear our chat —Lord, what a boon !
They’ve kinks to diagnose!
Maereadv Jones, a fav’rite star—
“ His voice is most pec-ul-i-ar.”
“Well, shouting drinks in ev’ry bar
The best voice will undo!
His walk! Oh, isn’t it absurd?
The other night my brother heard
He had a wooden leg!” “My word!
I wonder if it’s true?”
Miss Bernard Smiff—“a dear, sweet pet!”
“But can she act?” “Well, yes.” “I’ve met
Her eldest daughter-—nice girl; yet
Her Ma looks half her age!”
“How is it done?” “Dear, don’t ask me.
For ‘make-up’ is, as you’ll agree
(The large size bottle, five and three),
A secret of the stage!”
“Like Romeo Brown? I’m fairly stuck!
Why, he’s a dear, a dream, a duck!. .. .
What’s that you say ? A tram-condue—
Tor once! My, what a shock!”
But isn’t it a treat to know,
That ev’ry actor in the show,
Has got some sort of kink! Let’s go
And view them on the Block!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


1
The' D.J. Special” Shirt, 4/6
fas illustrated) is AUSTRALIAN MADE.
c . The 13. J. SPECIAL SHIRT is ideal for
Summej Wear, made of good strong wearing
Zephyr. Being made in our own workrooms,
you can depend upon every stitch being true.
It is cut by our expert cutter, so that the
cut is certain of being right, cool, comfort-
able and will give good service. The D. J.
Special presents, the appearance of a much
higher-priced shirt —and we can highly re-
commend it as thoroughly good value —for at
this price we are determined to give our cus-
tomers a Shirt of excellence. Colorings
favor Green, Black, Blue, Grey, Heliotrope
and Brown stripes. In sizes from 14in. to
TSin. It is perfectly safe to order by mail, for
should the goods prove unsatisfactory in any
way, we always make an exchange or refund
your money.
Price 4/0
DAVID JONES LTD SYDNEY.
OPP. G.P.0.,
J
Kug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally., send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- ( includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
♦
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; P-tt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
FASHIONS CONSISTENT INCONSISTENCY.
THE MAID: “A penny for your thoughts, Adolphus .”
THE MAN : “I was pondering on the eternal fitness or unfitness of things. Why were the
women who accomplished the dainty minuet provided with ample skirts and crinoline,
whilst the women of to-day are fettered with yard-wide skirts, in which to dance the
extravagant Bon-ton?”
The time seems ripe to point out to D.
Jones that he is unduly cramming his
locker with the N.S.W. North Coast Co.’s
ships. Here is the recent manifest:
Steamer Oakland, foundered off Tore Ste-
phens, May, 1903; Wollumbin, wrecked
near the Bellinger River, November, 1905;
Tomki, lost near the Richmond River, Sep-
tember, 1907; Burrawong, wiped out at the
entrance to the Manning River, March,
1909; Minimbah, deceased, same place,
April, 1910. A few weeks back the Rose-
dale went missing with all hands, presum-
ably somewhere near Smoky Cape ; and now
the Macleay and all its people, bar two, is
added to the gloomy list. It looks like undue
preference, or spite, or something, on the
part of Jones.
“Handspike” sends a line from the sea: —
Nothing but gross carelessness sent the North
Coast (N.S.W.) steamer Macleay to Davy Jonesville
with 15 of her crew, last week. The vessel, although
within easy distance of a familiar lighthouse, and on
a sea-track as well known to coasting men as Pitt-
street is to bookmakers, was miles out of her course.
According to one of the two survivors, she was head-
ing landward when the rocks tore the lining out of
her so that, even if she had missed Big Cabbage Tree
Island, upon which it is supposed she struck, she
would have butted into something equally solid and
uncompromising. Her utter and complete disap-
pearance strengthens the theory that the lost Rose-
dale, another North Coast steamer, was wrecked
through Striking Fish Rock, a well-known danger
under Smoky Cape lighthouse. The idea is that
when the Rosedale ran into a heavy southerly the
skipper turned her round to head for shelter, and
found it —at the bottom of the ocean where the
stormy winds do not blow. The case of the Macleay
once more emphasises the danger of hugging the
coast, and skating round reefs and rocks to dodge a
current, and save half an hour or so. There is too
much of it on the coast, consequently there are too
many ships lost.’ Also, there are too many lives
lost, which is a matter liable to be overlooked.
Sydney lately saw some sizable transac-
tions in the real estate line. Thirteen city
properties, belonging to the Marks estate,
were submitted at auction ; seven were sold
on the spot, and the remaining six were ex-
pected to go privately; One block with a
30ft. frontage to King-street, by a depth of
only 44ft., and carrying two staka-de-oyst
shops, rented at £lOOO a year, brought
£21,000. A George-street (Ha.vmarket)
block, frontage 66ft., depth 134 ft., was
knocked down for £22,500. The Singer Co.’s
corner, which has a 30ft. frontage to Georae-
street, changed owners for £12,500. A Kent-
street block, frontage 64ft., hit up £12,000.
Altogether, £87,500 was bagged for the
seven sold properties. The daily papers
chronicled the deal with great jubilation,
and called it “evidence of Sydney’s great
growth and development.” Perhaps it was :
but f it was also evidence that the commun-
ity that allows the private landlord to
snavel the pick of its territory, and pocket
the increment in value that has been made
by the community itself, hasn’t developed its
intelligence along with its bulk.
The St. Kilda (Melb.) council is spend-
ing so much money in converting the suburb’s
marine frontage into a sixpenny show
ground that it has none to spare for
lighting the back streets. One of these days
the council will be morally responsible for a
murderous outrage in an engloomed thorough-
fare, whereupon the relatives of the victim,
if they are right-thinking people, will kill the
local mayor and bury the body under a
steam-roundabout or a switchback structure.
Or they will dress it as a pierrot and dump
it down on a garden chair in the Paradise
Pictures enclosure.
George V. has been good graciously pleased
to bestow the title “Royal” upon the Prince
Alfred Yacht Club, Sydney, which brings it
on an equal rating with the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron. Others to follow are the
Royal Moore Park Kick-the-Tin Club, the
Royal Surry Hills Ladies' Walking Soci-
ety, the. Royal Gregory Wade Life-Saving
Association, and the Royal Hotel Barmaids’
League.
HER POINT OF VIEW.
ELSIE : “Oh! mummy, I should so love to be a cherub, for then I could never, never be spanked."
The Sydney Master Builders had their
pleasant annual picnic at Cabarita, the other
day, and wept so much, as usual, that the
Parramatta rose 19ft. According to the S.
M. Herald :
The printed programmes prepared by the secretary,
Mr. Richards, were a masterpiece in themselves.
The frontispiece was a representation of a builder
standing in his office, apparently at his wits’ end.
Outside the office was a notice: “Wanted, masons,
bricklayers, carpenters and plasterers.” But there
was an absence of men. In the background was a
building in course of erection, but only one man at
work.
During the proceedings there was “a splen-
did repast,” of course, and, somebody having
proposed “The Day We Celebrate,” the
chairman responded:—
The builders had erected in Sydney during last
year, according to the Water Board report, 5712
buildings, at a cost of £3,286,525. But that did
not include all the other works, for the grand total of
the exoenditure in this direction amounted to over
£5,000,000 for the year, an increase of 28 per cent,
on the previous year.
And only one man on the job! There seems
to be either a very energetic workman or a
very energetic liar about somewhere.
“Brass Button”: The hoary-headed old
Orient liner, Ormuz, is on its last trip to
Australia —at any rate under the Orient
flag. The ancient ark was built in ’B6, and
has been plugging along the same old track
ever since. There are plenty of big, up-to-
date, sea sky-scrapers that will never be as
comfortable, but Speed is master nowadays,
and the liner that pants wearily into port
a few hours late has to pull out of the line.
And while Speed is the master, Size is the
mate; for about the first thing the average
man, and the first, last and middle thing
the average woman wants to know when
picking a boat for a passage, is how far up
in the thousands its tonnage runs. Most of
them have a vague notion of what is meant
by “tonnage,” but they all talk learnedly of
12,000-tonners, and sneer at anything less
than five figures. All of which is one of the
good reasons why the liner’s attics keep
climbing into the skies another storey, and
the cellar level gets further and further down
towards the place where the violent bump
is.
“The Blotter”: At Burnie (Tas.), the
other day, the publicans and Wowsers com-
bined to knoCK out a proposal, submitted to
a local poll, that the population should have
a chance to get wet at another licensed
house. When the result was declared, one
of the publicans announced that he would
keep open house that night, and the boss
Wowser called on the congregation to s.ng
“Praise God from whom all blessings flow.'
They sang it all right, though the open-
house publican was obviously annoyed. He,
anyhow, had to pay for the liquor.
The Oldest Inhabitant strolls around :
An ancient building of frail material, in days
gone by the trading place and home of an old Syd-
ney identity, Richard Morton Lindsay, is to be passed
over the knackers. It is known, now, as Angus
and Robertson’s “Shilling Shop,” in Castlereagh-
street. Dick Lindsay was a colonist of the early
’3o’s. About 1840 he set up as a dealer, in Kent-
street; in the ’so’s he was in Josephson’s Terrace in
Elizabeth-street, where he was sandwiched between
the Misses Flower, who kept a ladies’ school, and
Dr. Foucart; in the early ’6o’s he moved to the shop
now about to be slain. In the mid ’6o’s he and R.
W. Skinner were the only second-hand booksellers in
Sydney, as H. T. Wright was the only one in Mel-
bourne. In the early ’so’s, Dick Lindsay went to
London, to buy a stock of moderateur lamps, a very
fashionable article then. They burned colza oil. But
there was a sudden slump in colza oil lamps, and
Dick lost a small fortune. His wife, if not a native
of Sydney, was close to it. When they were in
Oastlereagh-street, she used to point to the big school
building opposite, and tell how she had attended
Father Therry’s mass there. That was before Father
Therry built the temporary chapel—named St.
Gregory, if memory serves—on a part of the site
now devoted to St. Mary. After Lindsay’s death
the shop had many odds and ends of tenants, until,
10 years ago, when Mr. George Billing brought it
back to its old bookish occupation.
“Teetotal Maine,” as S. M. Herald
headed an account of that State’s recent
decision to try and clean up the mess that
has followed half a century of prohibition,
has been receiving some special attention
by a trio of investigating professors of the
M.L. University. A chip :
In 1891 over 40 per cent, of the committals to
country gaols in Maine were committals for drunken-
ness, and the proportion increased steadily, until in
1902 it had reached the amazing total of 60 per
cent, of the whole. In 1850, when prohibition first
came into force in Maine, the consumption of alco-
holic liquor per head of population was 4.08 gallons;
in 1910, after more than half a century of prohibi-
tion, it was over 23 gallons. In Maine we have
renewed proof that prohibition puts alcohol into the
houses of the people; so that drinking, from being
merely an occasional social indulgence, becomes a
dailv, inveterate habit.
Healing with the home life of the people
under prohibition, it is set out that: —
Maine stands absolutely and easily at the head of
the North Atlantic division of States in the matter
of divorce percentages—2B2 divorces per 100,000 of
married population, while “drunken” New York
only averages 60 divorces per 100,000 of married
population.
FROM THE PURELY SYDNEY VIEWPOINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In accordance with the naval programme already
outlined, the flagship of the Australian squadron
(H.M.S. Powerful) and the rest of the warships left
Port Jackson, at the conclusion of the A.J.C. meet-
ing, for Melbourne, where the Cup festivities will
shortly begin. —News item.
The last of the parties is over,
The races and dances are done,
And so our defenders are leaving;
In fact, to be plain, they are gone:
The Flagship and fleet have departed ;
Unguarded we stand, and alone.
The pertinent question arises:
When war, the undodgable, comes,
And Sydney’s bombarded, and Horror
Through suburb and alleyway roams,
Will those whom we dread choose, for action,
A season of balls and “At Homes 7”
Assuming they don’t, our position
Appalling and hopeless must be
Who drowse, ’mid our women and children,
And savings, ’neath Pinchgut’s mild lea,
With naught between us and destruction
Save cruiserless, Dreadnoughtless sea.
Two methods of sidestepping ruin
Suggest themselves: This is the first :
Persuade our society leaders,
By way ot evading the worst,
To make social life, in this city,
One ceaseless and glorious “burst.”
With races each week-end at Randwick,
And harbor trips daily, and teas,
And motor-jaunts into the country,
And dejeuners under the trees,
And countless small dinners and dances,
(All things that the sailor-men please).
Our prospects of getting the squadron—
Grim emblem of Britain’s stark might—
To stand by our beautiful city.
And ftive the invader that fight
With which we ourselves can’t supply him,
Will look quite remarkably bright.
Another alternative offers :
To pay for a show of our own,
No tinpot affair, but a navy
Well fit for a nation full-grown—-
And man it with local-trained sailors.
Nor heed old Bruce Smith’s anguished moan.
One fact stands out clear as a lighthouse;
Whatever the ultimate cost,
Some naval reform is essentia]
And sooner —far sooner—than most.
In these things a State’s like a woman,
It hesitates—presto ! it’s lost.
N.S.W.
G. BUNG.


Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
DIRECTIONS ROUND EACH TADLET.
3
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
TUB TROUBLES of DIGESTION, pain, flatu-
lence, acidity, and so on, are happily in most cases
simply the expression of some fleeting disturbance of
function. The best way to restore tone and regu-
larity to the intestinal tract is by taking a wine-
glassful of “lIUNYADI JANOS” natural aperient
water the first thing in the morning every second or
third day.*
Wilds Hairdressing Rooms, 80 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
tlie proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
A vSmart Summer Hat.
This Alpine Soft Felt
is the most recent style
of the Summer —in shape
and color absolutely cor-
rect. It is a happy w' ,n -
-lige model, the brim 2}
inch, turned over wiut
machine edire. The colors
include Grey, Blabk
bands. Mole and Serpent
Green.
If you want a hat that
is rijiht up to date, here
it is.
Send for our new Hand
Book of Men's ivear —
FREE.
PEAPES S CO.
“Men’s Ltd.
Outfitters,”
309-3 H George Street, SYDNEY.
Posted 9d. Inter-State Is. 3d.
“The Blotter” : In giving £15,000 for the
old X.S.W. training ship Sobraon, Australia
has paid top price and a bit over. The aged
ai-K was built at Aberdeen 45 years ago, and
wouldn't bring much more than a fifth of
the money in the open market—most likely
not more than a few hundreds for hulk pur-
poses. Where are its contemporaries, the
Tarramatta, Macquarie, Hawltesbury and
the others which flew Devitt and Moore’s
flag up at the beginning of the ’Bo’s. The
Macquarie, I think, was sold to Dagoes.
Anyhow, none of the fleet brought £15,000,
or anything near it, when D. and M. went
out of the wind-jammer business, and every-
one of the lot was over 20 years younger
than the Sobraon is now. On the British
register the Sobraon appears, or did until
two or three years ago, as owned by the
dead-and-gone Saul Samuel, for many years
N. S. Wales Agent-Beneral.
A WISE PRECAUTION.
FRIEND: “ Wha — what—what the deuce are you doing , Obese?"
OBESE: “I’ve (puff-puff) got the nomination for the State Parliament! ”
There is a clause in the Declaration of
London which will bring uproarious cneers
from fruitarians, vegetarians and other
erank-dietarians, also monkeys. The De-
claration gives, power to a warship in time of
strife to collar any vessel, neutral or other-
wise, if it is carrying foodstuffs of any sort
with the solitary exception of NUTS. Any
Bower which Britain is scrapping with will
be allowed under the new Declaration to
convert merchant ships into war vessels
without notification of any sort, and these
can immediately start out on the prowl for
every craft bound for any of Bull’s ports,
and run it ip as a prisoner if it carries any
tucker. Buf cargoes of nuts they dare not
(the writer nearly said dare nut) touch.
So we may pxpect to see all nations’ ships,
loaded down to the Plimsoll mark with what
the ape eats, serenely steering through the
enemies’ fleets and landing their cargoes, and
we can picture John Bull and Mrs. Bull, and
all the little Bulls waiting with famine-
stricken faces for the nuts to be unloaded.
When the other foodstuffs run out, as tuey
would do about 15 minutes after their im-
port was stopped, soldiers, sailors and civi-
lians will probably be served out with a
daily ration or a pound of peanuts and a
milky cocoaffut apiece, and the swaggerest
dish the Carlton and Savoy will be able to
mention on the menu will be Potage Peanut,
Brazil Nuts braised it la Charley's Aunt,
and Chestnuts (l la Punch. It’s going to be
somewhat rough on the lions and tigers in the
Zoo, though it won't be long Defore they
appear as prime cuts and joints on mil-
lionaires' tables. And the baboon with the
red nose and the blushing tail will be saved.
Some foodstuff's may be “absolute contra-
band,” and others “conditional contraband,”
but the fancy name they are captured under
won’t be much satisfaction to the poor for-
lorn beef-eater whose jaws are past service
as nutcrackers.
“J.R.”: That is a queer arrangement on
the part of the Parramatta King’s School,
whereby 14 members of the school cadet
corps are to be put up, during the Durbar
celebrations, at ua Martini6re College,
Lucknow. The Martini&re is a charity
school, run by the Catholic clergy. It was
founded by a Frenchman named Martin, who
made a great deal of money in the last half
of the 18th century, by raising and com-
manding European-disciplintd troops 'u the
service of native chiefs. A sturdy oiu anti-
Englishman was Martin—about the most
enemy of British rule in India
of his epoch. He endowed the college for
the education of children of what is known
as the “Domiciled Community,” otherwise
people of mixed blood. The White Austra-
lian parents of the King’s Scholars may
approve of their youngsters being herded
with a race which is sniffed at by both whites
and blacks in India; on the other hand, they
may not. When they appreciate the posi-
tion in its entirety, I am fain to think that
they will not.
The fate of the Lowe infant, which had its
arms cut off when crawling on the line at
Bentville, brings to light the quality of the
Victorian Railway Commissioners’ mercy.
The father of the child was a railway porter.
Avho became incapacitated by disease, and
finally L- ■ ridden, so the Department, in a
burst of benevolence, gave his wife, who has
a young family, a level crossing to look after.
Between the young family, the level crossing
and the bedridden husband, baby Lowe, as
might have been expected, escaped attention
long enough to crawl under a locomotive.
Thus, once again, the Department's efforts to
combine economy and lordly benevolence re-
sulted in disaster.
HER BUSINESS
METHODS.
MR. WITTE : “But
that was a cruel
way to refuse a
fellow just a
printed slip stuck
to a fellow's letter ,
by Jove , ‘ Declined
with Thanks.’
Miss Wells (lately
a journalist)
“The fact is, I've
had so many pro-
posals since be-
coming an heiress,
I've been forced
to adopt business
methods."
The Bulletin came back from lunch,
one day last week, filled with ninepenn’orth
of food, and feeling at peace with all man-
kind, to find this on its desk :
PREFERENCE TO UNIONISM.
To the editor, “Sidney Bullettin.”
Sir, —In view of the facts that these antipodean
setlements styled australia is proposed to be ruled
by a gang of progenyed and branded and immortal-
ised bushrangers cuttroats whose laws are none less
that preference even in a hard day wore)! for a living
starvation and degradation ecc. ecc. to any one that
dare call himself a free worcher and refuse swallow
theirs criminal renowned slavery gospels self sty led
lawful laws ; and in view of facts that as an immi-
grant I have passed nearly a decade of experiences
out swan river way among blood suchin blood hounds
before the advent of so called unionism, 1 now hereby
in public declare: that as a free worcher I accuse
all concerned of the time vasted starvation suffered
and degradation experienced since unionism started
existence 11 years ago responsible of the above
products caused i»v theirs laws forbidding ways and
means to obtain employment and a living; that
as I want employment to earn enough to pay
a passagge 3rd class fare but from these ocean
archipelago called australia in public I accuse them
responsible of every day wasted and if I have a live
by methods others that lawfull ; that I refuse to join
these so called unionism by theirs methods for the
gift of a Continent; and that there is nothing in
Creation that shall forbid me the rights of dissemin-
ate my experiences anywhere I like and in languages
I please and hereby I disclaym all responsibilityes
from theirs effects.
Peter Rensany.
Sidney, October 11, 1911.
Thus does the free laborer throw off the
hated yoke of gram" ar, am? burst the chains
of orthography, a..J scorn that bloated
tyrant, the dictionary.
Apropos of Melbourne complaints: A city
is known by the gas company it keeps.
“While a number of persons were dining
at a cafe in Toulon, an infernal machine
exploded in the building, injuring five of the
diners.” That’s the wi.rai of sausage ma-
chines. The ammunition is so apt to go off.
Any person con-
templating insanity
in N. S. Wales had
better pontpone his
i >vings for a few
n.unths. The Ma
State’s population
has been growing
fast ever since the
blight of Federation
fell upon it, but
hardly any fresh ac-
commodation for
lunatics has been
provided since 1901,
with the result that
the present build-
ings are liable to
burst, through over-
packing, at any mo-
ment. A while ago,
the Lunatic Depart-
ment borrowed the
buildings erected
some years back at
Babbit Island for
an inebriates’ home,
and never used ; but
that didn't ease the
strain for long, so
the Raving Office
lately ran up tem-
porary calico dormi-
tories at Stockton
and Morisset—offi-
cially described as
“wooden frames
with calico panels,
wooden floors and a
canvas fly over all.”
These don’t seem
quite the ideal
materials for luna-
tics’ do.rmi tories
especially if the lun-
atics are violent;
and they suggest a
large grill or bake
in the distance. Yet,
even after employ-
ing the materials for
this paper-bag cook-
ery, Ma still crowds
5526 patients into
premises that have
accommodation for
only 5356, with the
result that proper
treatment is alleged to be impossible,
and the chances of recovery are pushed fur-
ther into the distance.
* * * *
Someone in Victoria's railway rolling-
stock department combines the pawkiriess of
the Scot with the thriftiness of the Dago.
Away back in Speight’s days, an old second-
class, ex-Hobson’s Bay four-wheeled dog-box,
numbered 2488, was condemned as worn-out,
and sent to the scrap heap. There, however,
a thrifty foreman noticed it, and fixed it up
for several mor-- years’ service. Its parti-
tions and seats were removed; bunks were
stuck in it, and it became a camping car-
riage for repairing gangs, till it became too
old and dry-rotted even for a service which
doesn’t involve any fast travelling. Then it.
stood for a while at Newport, till one day
another harassed foreman, looking around
for carriages to replace those that had been
smashed up, dropped his eye on it. The roof
was good and the draw-bars weren't quite
done, and with repairs to wheels, axles,
tyres, windows, sides and ends, it might
still be made to earn a bob or two. So it
was painted and furbished up afresh, the
bunks were taken down and three compart-
ments were built in, and with some of the
old doors nailed up and some of the windows
boarded over, it blossomed forth again—this
time as 57ST, which probably means
“Slung Together 57 times.’ Since then
it has carried some hundreds of week-
enders down to Mordialloc and back;
but the other half-year it became so
decrepit and so filled with senile decay that
it commenced losing its limbs on the road,
whereupon it was gradually and deliberately
brought back to Newport, empty. But there
is little hope of its resting in peace even now.
A few nails and another coat of paint, and it
may yet resurrect as 666 DF —the Dead
Finish and the number of the Beast.
* * * *
Dean Phelan (Vic.), talking of the mean-
ing of the word “flapper,” nas paved the.
way for a controversy:—
he presumed the term was taken from what hap-
pened in the case of birds. Young girls were brought:
up under the wing of a mother, and when big;
enough tried to flap their little wings. The word was.
intended, no doubt, for girls who felt they were able
to go from under mother’s wing and fly on their own.
The Dean’s information bn the subject would
sound conclusive if “flapper” were not an
old English term for a young fish of the
flounder type. The bird simile is poetic
enougfi, but the fish theory has more of
prosaic fact about it. Bred in a compara-
tively peaceful haven of refuge, the flapper
strikes out towards the troubled sea of
matrimony. In short, it goes forth to mash
a male fish and make sheep’s eyes at an-
other flounder.
LOVE AND L.S.D.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MAT. —Gent., smart business tradesman, wishes
to meet refined, good AVoman, 35 to 40, with
means; love and a- s. d. —No. 422, Herald
Office. — Daily paper advt.
Cupid and cash go hand-in-hand ;
Gallants may scoff and girls grow haughty ;
AA T omen of sense all understand
“Business first,” when nearing forty ;
Love must wait till the hills are paid ;
Cupid flies from a dunning grocer ;
Ponder in time, O pretty maid !
Say to penniless suitors: “No, sir!”
Money is scorned at twenty-five—
Squandered gaily and labelled “dirty” ;
AVait a little till we arrive
On the shadowy slopes of thirty ;
When we’re travelling down the hill,
Then, my brothers, we’re thinking harder—
Saving up for each little bill—-
Peeping into the empty larder.
Love’s a joke without £ s. d.,
Penniless suitors cool and falter
AA’hen a damoset thoughtfully
Talks a lot of the bridal altar ;
“Mat” ’s a matter for sense and cash —
Love’s for penniless children sporty ;
Business tradesmen (if not rash)
Seek for bank accounts under forty.
X.S.W.
THE REGISTRAR.
A RUSH ORDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
More glorious weather could not have been de-
sired tor the garden party given yesterday afternoon,
at Federal Government House, by the Governor-
General and Lady Denman. A rather cold wind was
blowing during the early nart of the afternoon, but
fortunately this died down, and brilliant sunshine
flooded the gardens and lawns. —-Daily paper.
“Send down Thy Light! Turn off Thy Wind!”
The prayer of the Elect
AVentup. An angel, meek, resigned,
Of the celestial cable kind,
Received it with respect.
The wind was stilled ; the light came down
And lit the close-trimmed sward.
Next day the uninvited town
Read: “Catering by Bun and Brown ;
The weather by The Lord.”
N.F.W.
TRADESMENS’ ENTRANCE.


fremph from (ompens<xTic>r\ .
Most of the day was occupied in the
consideration of the Workmen’s Accident
Compensation Bill. The measure was
almost through committee when the
Minister proposed a new clause exempt-
ing agricultural, viticulturaland horticul-
tural workers from the operations of the
act.
WiHk Walt—
° No, no, we can do j
noft>in<s for you. We
mustn't" discourage
our grand national
industries— or rut"
our little till.'
The birth-rate last year was 24*20 per
1000. which is the lowest rate recorded,
and lower than that prevailing in any of
I the other Australian States and Great
Britain. _ '
Cupid, locj —-
"The ** a mage- rale
has gone up, and
IKe. birth-rate. has
gone Jouon - Hoco
Ujoulct (h be if* v>ei
lyere Tc> <xbol «sk
-+- • | " *
malrimof'y : ’
Original sketck {-o r a picture ouhiek is hol“ exktbilecf t>y ttve- V v A-^*
Tickets for the complimentary banquet
to Rabbi Dr. Abrahams, it is intimated by
advertisement, may be obtained from
Mr. Jacob Marks, 450 Little Collins-
street, and from Mr. M. Alexander, 11
Oxford-chambers, Bourke-street.
I lie o\
ItTc. ?clfTcoalr.
' h» Idyll.
"xyjh Ay*.
' Vot" abouh dose
Tickets for ITic bancjrucT —
1 l>o I ha.£ lo r
von ?
f A
TfieaJncal
QuesTlor\
Jolmrue I've oHtr\ maar\V* to a.sk y you know
WkaF does a. "-Happah" mearv ? /(
"Pto*.pper^a.llcr*ine says *«t” means a. lit’t'le Uirdie .
IN VICTORIA AND ITS METROPOLIS.


LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS & WHITTY,
Melbourne and Sydney. t i
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
Reduced
Enormously.
WHY?
We took on sometime afro a Sole Agency calling- for an
immense output, and to live up to it we are selling
Diamonds at merely a broker’s commission on tbe
actual landed cost.
Choice Diamonds and
Pale Pink Corals, £7/7/*.
Diamonds and Whole
Pearls, £lO/10/=
Diamonds and
■Peridots,
£l2/12/-
They are shown loose, and set in ring's, pendants and jewellery generally, and we feel sure that our new
departure will pay us, owing to the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
FAIRFAX § ROBERTS,
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Son of a Gun” : The strong suit of the
Outback Queensland Bung is his hide. Called on
one the other day, and was somewhat baffled to see
him immediately pour out and swamp a generous
potion, paying no more attention to me than if I had
been a spittoon. Then I put down sixpence. Blandly
tilling the coin, he inquired: “Ain’t you going to
’ave one yerself?”
“Dinkum”: Re “Vagabond” (B. 21/9/ 11)»
he is perfectly right in his assertions re the oil
tractor, and there are a whole lot more things that
the machine can do that he didn’t mention. lor in-
stance, it can chop up chaff and press it, pull down
trees, pull out stumps and saw them up, and kill
prickly-pear by rolling it down and then scraping it
clean, bore drains, and pull heavy loads over
soft sand or into heaps. It can drill deep
wells, and, best of all, swell the poor cocky's
bank account. “Vagabond” wants to know
why cock}' doesn’t take it on. This is what I
heard. in Charleville the other day: “I dessay them
tractors is all right, an’ can t'.o all them things, but
erbout the ’orse-breeder, ’ow will ’e git erlong? An
wot erbout ther bloke what breeds th’ worlcin’ bul-
licks? S’posin’ we takes them things on, wot’s ’e
goin’ ter do fer a outlet fer ’is biz? An’ if they
git them things up ’ere, there’ll on’y be ’arf ther
carriers on ther road, an’ then wot erbout ther pub,
an’ wot erbout the bloke wot makes ther ’arness, an
ther cocky growin’ feed fer ther ’orses an’ bullicks,
an ’er lot of other blokes wot gits ther livin’ w ere
’orses is erbout? Even s’posin’ ther oil pots* can go
50 miles in er day with a load,, an’ can.save money
orl roun’ th’ s’lection, th’ cocky’ll still stick to is
ole ’orse team, cause ’e reckons ’ p cun make er bob
er two buyin’ an’ sellin’ ’orses, which ’.e can’t if ’e’s
dealin’ in tractor coffee pots. An’ don’t you fergit
the Carriers’ Union, neither.’’ I didn’t wait to hear
any more.
“What”: There are several reasons why
the Australian farmer does not rush the motor-tractor
as “Vagabond” (B. 21/9/’ll) suggested he should.
One is the expert care and attention required. What
does the average farmer understand about sparking-
plugs, tappets, valves, coils, magnetos, caburetters or
vaporisers, not to mention compression, lubricating
systems, cycles of action, carbonisation, valve grind-
ing, etc. ? When motors have reached the almost
perfectly simple stage, so that their action can be
readily understood from drawings or booklets, and
when a person of average intelligence can peruse
such booklet and make himself familiar with all
the mechanical functions and possibible difficulties,
then, 'and not before, will the motor-tractor come
into general farm usage.
“Angora”: I agree with “Vagabond” (B.
21/9/’ll) that the motor will do most of the farm-
ing jobs with which he credits it; but not any two
of them at the same time. A horse team, on the
other hand, can be split up, one section ploughing
while another does harrowing. And I’d be charmed
to point this out. Admitting that an engine costs
only about the same as a horse team, the owner of
the team breeds it at a fraction of its market value,
gets three or four years’ work out of the animals,
and can then sell them for £4O, £5O or £6O a
head, Also, he gets his horse feed at first cost,
whereas benzine has to be purchased after various
Trusts and Combines have had their whack
out of it. We all know the amateur farmer who
crowds his place with alleged labor-saving appliances.
If I were a machinery agent I’d give three cheers
for him, but I’m not. I’m merely a plain bloke
who refuses to pour his good profits into bad patents,
or to spend his time telegraphing for experts when
the engines go on strike without notice or explana-
tion. “Vagabond” can have my share of a tractor
that I have long ago counted as a dead horse.
The live horse is good enough for me.
WHEN THE BRICK LANDED.
HAGAN : “I on’y hit him wid a bit iv day."
RAGAN : “I saw ye do it, Hagan. But didn't
ye notice the clay was baked?"
“Boronia” : I hereby apply for the imme-
diate extermination of “White Ants” (B. 31/8/’ll),
on the ground that he is a disseminator of grotesque
taradiddles. It is true that most of the Westralian
wheat country is experiencing a bit of a dry spell,
but to speak of- that dryness as a drought,-, in the
sense in which the eastern States use the word, is
absurd. He alleges that the Government pushes
settlers out over, the thirsty horizon, so as not to
tread on the corns of the coastal landlords. The
fact is quite the reverse. Mitchell, Wilson, Gregory
and Co. grow vociferous in urging intending settlers
to select in the south-west division, where there is an
abundance of excellent soil, possessing a certain rain-
fall of from 30 to 40 inches a year, and where even
the smallest creeks run until about Christmas time;
but the bogey is the heavy clearing, which costs from
£l5 to £4O per acre. Consequently , many are
scared off, only to be attracted by the light clearing
of the so-called wheat lands.
IT WAS WASHING DAY.
MRS. BROWN: “Oh, good day to ye, Mrs. Casey!"
MRS. CASEY: “ Och, there, I knew I’d have visitors to-day. The cock crowed at the door
this marnin', and, says I ‘Damn the bur-r-rd."
“Geofred”: “Warradulla” (B. 21/9/’ll)
enters the wild, unboiled cat for the; “hardest-beast-
to-kill” stakes. Now, although he is on the right
track, his pussy only runs second to the gentleman
pig and his pigess. I had such an experience as
that mentioned by “Dulla” near Goulburn (N.S.W.),
a few years ago, except that my cat did eventually
lose its life, by a rifle bullet. We wanted our trap,
and, as the inmate disputed possession, we had to
shoot first, and then amputate the cat to re-
gain our trap. But, re the pig, his pigess,
and the family. Biking between Adavale
and Listowel, the other summer, I went to
sleep one night (to
quote “James Panni-
kin”) “under an open
expanse of glorious
Blue sky.” About 4
in the morning I
heard a spacious grunt
at my left ear, and
quickly sat up. There,
trying to introduce his
missus and kids (about
six) to me, Was the
great male pig. I
snatched my rifle and
fired blank in the ani-
mal’s . frank, open
countenahce. The un-
earthly grunt and
screech that followed
were' worse than Wood
being suspended by
Speaker Willis, but the
swine didn’t seem
much hurt. I fired
again as he galloped
off, and he made the
same remark as be-
fore. That day, after
riding about three
miles, I came across
pig again. He was
lying in a clump of bushes off the
road, stone dead, and ma pig and the
kids were holding an inquest. I dis-
mounted, and, after a fierce round or
two with ma, I frightened the mourn-
ers off and had a look at father’s
body. There were two bullet holes in
him, ne fair between his eyes (from
the front). The othe 1 bullet had entered his back,
furrowed down towards the heal, and then suddenly
slanted in, straight to tin heart. I reckon that pig
was a tough proposition. As far as I can make out
his corpse ran three miles after being killed twice.
“Mallacoota” : The idea of keeping to the
aboriginal nomenclature for names of places in this
country should be encouraged. Some of the most
euphonious native names have indecent meanings,
but few people are well up in native dialect, so that
doesn’t matter much. The Australian is weak on
geographical terms. Within a short radius of
where this is written are The Spotted Dog, Dead
Finish, John Bull, Ag’s Beacon, two Little Rivers,
two Double Creeks, Smellie’s Inlet, Cape Horn,
Dysentery Creek, Tinpot, Ti-tree Point, Horse Island,
and, a score of other equally inelegantly-named
places, all—or nearly all—-of which have original
names, spilling metrical vowels from every syllable.
“J.G.” : If we’re going to start a competi-
tion as to the hardest beast or animal to kill, I’m
round early with an Australian eagle, and anybody
can have my share of the wild eat. I had a para-
graph in this page some years ago about an eagle,
which, after having its head almost shot away, and
being nailed up as a dead bird, was found to be
alive a fortnight later. That was a true bill.
Here’s another. A cow cocky on the north Vic.
plains caught an eagle in a strong steel trap, set for
wild cats, and proceeded to kill it. He started the
operation with the jawbone of a gum, and succeeded
in making several dints on the bird’s head. The
next weapon brought to bear was a pitchfork, upon
which the bird or fiend was impaled, and the cocky
then proceeded to batter its (the fiend’s) skull to
pulp. This took 20 minutes, and the language of
the parties to the argument was like to a debating
society in Sodom and Gomorrah. Finally, a
feathered corpse was thrown out, and immediately
upon striking the ground, gave the lie to the state-
ment that the age of miracles has passed, by rising
On the wing and Hying in the face of the setting
sun. There need be no argument about this. I saw
it.
“Off-Sider,” re the home life of turkeys:—
I take it that “Bert P.” (B. 20/7/’ll) speaks from
hearsay concerning the habits of scrub-turkeys.
They do not “choose a spot free from sticks and
stones.” On the contrary, tlieir nests are mostly
built against logs and trees. The. same nest is used
by these fowl year after year. I have known one
to be in constant use. for 20 years, and it is now
30ft. in diameter and Bft. high. Every year, about
September, the birds scratch all the rotten leaves
out of the centre of the nest, and fill up with new
ones. I have watched . them . building, and they
neither face the nest nor use their wings to shift the
leaves—all the work is done with their feet. Do
not know how many use a nest, but. I have seen 60
eggs in one. As the chick can fly as so<sn as hatched,
I don’t think it would be much use ftp enclose the
nest with wire-netting, unless you put a roof over
it. Turkeys do a lot of damage to green .bananas.
In the afternoon the banana is there. At dusk the
turkey is there too. By dark the banana is gone.
Presently the turkey leaves, and then there only re-
main two holes in the atmosphere.
“Loco Driver : Goats are the hardest
animals to run over. Horses are the easiest, except,
perhaps, humans. Goats invariably dart at right-
angles to the rails, after eating the rust off the
metals till the last possible moment. A horse will
run between the rails for miles if not caught. He
seems afraid of the rails. Thinks they are shafts,
maybe. But we don’t run over a horse if we can
help it. The results are broken under-gear, even de-
railment, to say nothing of ballast amongst the
“motions,” and a horrid mess generally. Early in
my railway career we ran over a goat, aged about
one hour. He had been born between the rails, and
his mother watched by. We came along. Mother’s
frantic goat appeals to her little one were of no
avail. She stepped aside as we rushed by,
giving us a look that clearly, meant “You
fiends.”' I have never forgotten that look.
We returned an hour later. Mother goat had coaxed
her little one outside the rails. I have missed men
by a hairbreadth, saying, “You d—d fool!” as I
passed. Didn’t feel that way about the goat when
it cut things fine trying to save its kid. It wag too
pathetic for words, obscene or otherwise.
THE TOWN OF GOD-FORGOTTEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God-forgotten (300 miles west of the insanely-
congested port of Sydney), where the news comes
through that no trucks are available to carry the
grain to the mad anthill on the vast stretch of
coast.— Bulletin, 21/9/’ll.
There’s a town I know that slumbers in a sort of
dumb despair,
Where the Chow who grows cucumbers cries
“Whaffor?” within his lair!
For the Christian and the heathen hear the Door of
Progress slam,
Whilst in cities large and seethin’ no one cares a
single damn!
In that hamlet things are lifeless, and no mills and
foundries roar
In that village calm and strifeless, which in sleep
exclaims “Whaffor?”
’Tis the town of God-forgotten,
Where all things are slumber-sotten,
And the jackass on the gable seems to groan the
word “Whaffor?”
There’s a town out west where farmers curse the use-
lessness of farms ;
Where the mortgage leaps and clamors and the in-
terest-bill alarms ;
There the people, tired and scopeless, seem to wait
the Judgment Day—
They are. jaded, sad and hopeless, so they drift the
time away!
There they do not drain the flagon, for the pub is
tired as well;
And the wheat rots on the waggon, and all things
resemble Hell!
’Tis the town of No-One-Knows-It,
Where no hearty voice says “Prosit!”
Where the landscape quakes in mirage, and all things
resemble Hell 1
There’s a town out there where Sunday seems the
ghost of Saturday,
And where Thursday looks like Monday, and all
earthly things decay!
’Tis a place where weary Woman cooks the meals
for shabby Man —
Yea, a place accurst, inhuman, and it lives beneath
a ban. j
There the children sit reflective, tired and vimless
on the floor ;
And the earth with voice collective seems to ask the
stars “Whaffor?”
That’s the town of God-forgotten,
Where the heart of things is rotten,
And the universal spirit seems to shout aloud
“Whaffor?”
There’s; a town where nothing alters, where the world
looks dull and mean —
Where the Younger Manhood falters as it dreams of
Might-Have-Been !
There the girls each year grow older, but the mar-
riage-trade is done;
And the church roofs sag and moulder, and there is
not any fun !
One by one the young men, drifting, leave that
broken town behind—
’Tis the Younger Manhood shifting with a vexed,
uneasy mind !
From the town of Given-Over
Drifts the hopeless, : jobless lover,
And the devil Disappointment stokes Gehenna in his
mind !
There’s a town that groans and ponders as it leans
beside the plough—
“Jones and Smith both promised wonders, but will
Smith Do Something now?”
Thus the elders sadly question, But no answer echoes
there;
For the Party of Congestion holds its member by the
hair !
Jones -and Smith in dull succession walk the legisla-
tive floor—
Yea, they maunder through each session whilst elec-
tors groan “Whaffor?”
In the town of God-forgotten,
Jones and Smith seem sloth-besotten.
And the man behind the wheat stack asks his per-
ished grain “Whaffor?”
There’s a town where Death is weary, where the
tombstones seldom rise—
And the undertakers query, “Tell to us why no one
dies?”
There the hearse begins to crumble, and the plumes
droop in despair ;
Whilst the coffin-makers grumble and accuse the
healthy air !
“Somethin’s Wrong,” they groan together—which,
indeed, is very true ;
But the blame is tied a-tether with the Great Con-
gestion Crew!
’Tis the distant Trafßc-Fakir
Who destroys the coffin-maker —
All are tied in dreary bondage to the Great Conges-
tion Crew!
There’s a town —ah, well, it slumbers by its wheat
stacks in despair;
And the Chow who vends cucumbers yells “Whaffor?”
each summer there!
Nothing moves and nothing matters—Sydney’s deaf
and far away ;
So the population scatters, and the pleasant girls
grow grey!
In that village Love seems worthless, and each
woman at her door
Hears the landscape’s echo mirthless to her heart’s
refrain: “Whaffor ?”
Joyless town of God-forgotten —
What a crime is here begotten,
When the women’s hearts are broken, and their dead
hopes cry “Whaffor?”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


A decade (1880-1890) sufficed to bring into popu-
larity electricity as a light. Not yet however is it
a serious rival of gas for domestic cooking. Phillips
Ormonde & Co., think that consideration and experi-
ment would be productive of many improvements to
present types of electric cookers, if not the birth of
an entirely new type. Any information with regard
to patents for inventions is cheerfully provided by
Phillips Ormonde & Co., patent and trade mark at-
torneys, 264-268 Flinders St., Melbourne.* '
PLASMON OATS
Scotland s Best —“ Enormously increased
in food value by the addition of Plasmon.”
4 Minutes Boiling only. — Lancet.
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: 5& 7, Barrack St., Sydney,
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh—unnecessary. Try
CARTER'S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel. ,
Cure Constipa>
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache.
Carters
“ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
and Indigestion, as millions know.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
51-
JUST TO ADVERTISE! !
A Sixpenny Bottle of CALDWELL’S INK
and a Half-Cuinea 14-carat Iridium
Tipped Twin-Feed Fountain Pen for
If you can’t buy it locally, send Postal
Note direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
“Mallacoota” on noises of the farm : Bush
poets and other irresponsible persons oyster to the
idea that all noise is confined to the lanes of cities.
An Australian farm in full blast can keep its end up
for discord. I put in a few weeks on a selection re-
cently. The “cocky” family consisted of Pa and Ma
(a little brown woman who went about from dawn
to dark snapping at everybody’s heels), Bill, George
and Andrew (whose total length—laid end to end—
was 18ft. 94in.), and Sis, Liz., and Vic. The work
of the farm began at 4.30 a.m., with the loud chop-
ping of wood, the hoarse crowing of roosters and the
quacking of the duckery. Then came the cracking
of whips and the yelping of the oblong mongrels, who
assisted to get the cows into the milking-yard.
Ferocious bellows from milch ma’s in the bail to
their offspring, and the long, pathetic, heart-rending
replies from segregated calves, lamenting generally for
mother, kept the sound-waves vibrating wildly. The
sharp, petulant voices of the two younger girls
scolding Strawberry and Jane for slapping unclean
tails across their faces, or getting their feet in the
milk buckets, broke the metre of the pastoral, and
introduced emphasis. The feeding of the pigs fol-
lowed. This was Andrew’s function. He had a voice
like a Swiss mountaineer’s in everything but sweet-
ness. He would stand at the fence, with a sour-milk
pail in either hand, and call till the wild boar in
the mountain, two miles away, heard and snuffled for
the pots of civilised hogdom. The pigs, with grunts
and snorts, came coarsely from all quarters. Andrew
killed the pigs when necessary. Theatres being far
away, he prolonged the amusement as much as pos-
sible. Breakfast over, the old man would wave his
whiskers at the paling gate of the horse paddock, and
roar back until his saddle-horse came to him. Then
would arise the voice of George summoning his
cattle-dog with shrill whistles and curseful threats.
Sis would go to feed the ducks, and the poultry-
yard was summoned, by distinctive calls and cries,
loud and generally inharmonious. On the whole,
there is a good deal of raucous vulgar row about
mornings on the farm.
THE ONE INFALLIBLE SIGN.
AAGLER (instinctively) : "Something tells me that there are fish about here!"
“Pick” : I have arrived at the conclusion
that there is a little of human nature in bush birds.
Poverty tames them speedily, but in affluence they
hold aloof. When I first pitched my gunyah on the
landscape, a magpie family, without encumbrance,
held a homestead area in a neighboring spotted gum.
They regarded me as an intruder upon their grub
run, and asserted their pre-emptive rights by throw-
ing off slurs and challenging me to fight. Early in
winter a hoodlum murderer, out with a gun, fired at
Margaret's husband, and shot away half of his upper
bill. For some days I observed the poor fellow using
the lower portion of his mutilated frontispiece like a
shovel, in vain endeavors to scoop in worms that
wriggled aside and rolled away, laughing heartily at
his discomfiture. Then one frosty morning he perched
on my ridge-pole, looking sideways hungrily at my
ration wallaby, and appealed to me to help him
through the hard times. I offered him some of my
steak on the end of a fishing-rod, and we became
friends. Later on he fed plentifully out of my hand.
The truncated beak gradually grew, and when long
enough to assure independence, he returned to his
selection in the gum-tree. When nesting season came
round again he knocked off my hat as I passed under-
neath, and otherwise displayed the aggressiveness of
old.
“Mallarapoonie” : Unlike the forests of the
other States, Westralia’s karri and jarrah country-
carries little or no undergrowth. This is accounted
for by the fact that both the Westralian brands of
vegetable contain deleterious acids in their sap. Yet,
though it has no growth except Westralia’s tall
whiskers, an imposing sight is the “King” karri
country of the Leeuwin Peninsula. Vistas of such
real magnificence, as may be seen but once on a con-
tinent, unfold to the eye where the giant karris rear
their straight, bluish-white columnar trunks a clear
100 ft. above the fallen leaves and lichens. Aisles of
such a cathedral as man has not yet dreamed of are
to be wandered through for miles in these sou’-western
forests; but, alas, these cathedral columns, coated
in smooth white bark, as clean and clear as any
polished marble, are in great demand by men, and
the ring of axes and the scream of steam-driven saws
are loud in the Land of the Leeuwin. Here some of the
longest piles in the world are won by foresters from
the jarrah belts. Jarrah, the karri’s twin brother, is
one of the most demanded of timbers on earth. Because
it is termite-proof, the railway builders of some parts
will have nothing else for sleepers. Also, it is one
of the rare timbers of the world which resist —that is
to say diddle —the bugs in the waters of the tropic
seas. (Toredos is, I believe, the proper scientific
term, but we’ll let it go at saltwater bugs.) Hence
it is in demand also for piles. Age and dampness
only serve to toughen it, and weathered jarrah is
another word for adamant. Westralia supplies the
world with this particular brand of hardwood —
sleepers for the Cape to Cairo railway; bridge girders
for Argentina ; paving blocks for promiscuous places
like Liverpool, Auckland, and Buda Pesth. Karri is
more used for building construction, as it suffers
from cold feet if left out in the wet, though it is a
tough and accommodating timber if shown a little
consideration. In their sawn state the twin brothers
are even more alike than when they stand in the
forest, and it takes an expert to distinguish between
them. Owing to this peculiarity, some low-down
practices have ocaasionally been indulged in by
Westralian timber exporters, who have “rung- in”
karri for its much more serviceable relation. A
rough-and-ready method of distinguishing the sawn
timbers is to take a splinter of either, and hold it
over a lighted match. Burnt karri leaves a little
white ash ; jarrah gives none. In this respect jarrah
is unique—it is absolutely ashless. Let The Bulle-
tin keep its matches handy.
“T.V.T.” : For deep-rooting I’ll back the
swamp-reed, or wild sugar-cane, as it is sometimes
called, that flourishes in Carrum, Koo-wee-rup and
Moe swamps (Vic.), against all nominations. It is
no uncommon occurrence when well-sinking, to find
the toenails of the plant 12ft. or more below the
surface. The rest of the body generally pushes itself
skyward for about 7ft., and anything in the way is
fatally stabbed. Frequently I have seen potatoes, ti-
tree roots and sheets of thick messmate bark
pierced by the reed in a determined manner, which
left no doubt in my mind that the armor-plate of a
Dreadnought, or even the hide of a Tory editor
would be similarly drilled through.
“Willis Wilga”: Where has “Pick” (B.
21/9/’ll) seen his lady emu and her friends? He
speaks about “the usual family of four.” Perhaps
his lady belongs to the fashionable class, and large
families are a hindrance to her social duties. Out
West it is quite common to see her with a family of
any number up to 13. Saw one a few days ago with
this collection. She did not stop to explain; but
probably she, in addition to rearing her own family,
was acting as a wet nurse to “Pick’s” lady.
A GRIEVANCE.
D AN: “I wonder who invented
work , Bill?”
BILL : "I dunno — but whoever
'e wos, I wish the cow had
dashed well stopped and finished it."
“Malbon” writes: “Red Page” (B.
14/9/’ll) says, in connection with S. P. Hyatt’s
“Off the Main Track”: “He came to grief when he
rode into the bar of the Grand Hotel, and insisted
on being served on horseback.” Can’t see why he
should have come to grief unless he insisted on being
served many times. Remember Croydon (N.Q.) in the
halcyon days, when my old friend Tabby (that’s not
his name exactly, but all his contemporaries will
recognise him by it) was Mayor of the city. One
day his Worship instructed one of his minions to
proceed, under a by-law, against a citizen for riding
his horse on the footpath, said citizen being haled up
before the beak and fined 10 bob without the option.
Next morning the injured victim turned the corner
of Sircom-street, and beheld with wild and unholy
joy that Tabby was seated on his charger in Joe
Temple’s bar, whence he had gone to buy a packet
of cigarettes. “Ah!” said the despoiled, “now for
r-r-r-revenge! ” He took up his stand opposite the
front door to await Tabby’s exit, in order to collect
evidence against him of committing the same offence
that had cost the aggrieved half a jim, even if he had
to stop there till 11 p.m., when, according to a
misty and unauthenticated legend, the pubs closed.
After the First Magistrate of the City had lit his
sixth glass, he became aware of Nemesis on the side-
walk. Did he blanch and mutter in his beered?
Not by a pewter full! He hauled his fancy Mazeppa
round, and rode out of the bar into the dining-room
and down the backstairs, guiding his faithful Arab
steed through the side gate, and out into the street
over the authorised crossing. Then the weary watcher
on the corner ground his new set of false teeth into
powder, and his disgusted silence was so loud that
he was arrested for making two separate disturb-
ances.
“Mallarapoonie”: Given due warning of
the shark’s apjmoach, the average black is more than
a match for it in shallow water. The game is to keep
below the shark and jab it in the waistcoat with
a sharp stick; and so long as the nigger can reach
the floor of the sea, the defeat of the shark is pretty
certain. In deep water Binghi is at a disadvantage.
By endeavoring to keep below the shark he occasion-
ally gets so deep that he hasn’t time to come up
alive. One vagary of the marine jackal is its pro-
pensity to fool round instead of attending strictly to
business. Out of a shipload of mares consigned to
India, I once saw a splendid animal which had died,
consigned to the sharks in Townsville Harbor —
one of the worst infested places on the coast. The
dead body of that mare, nosed continually by raven-
ous sharks, floated for days untouched. Again, I
have seen the Kimberley cattle-shippers drop dead
animals overboard in shark-infested waters off the
Westralian coast, and invariably the defunct beef
floated for days. On the other hand, during the
process of unloading a shipment of nor’-west cattle
at Robb’s jetty lately, a fine bullock leapt over-
board, and was torn to pieces by five huge sea-
wolves within a chain of the shore.
“Ivoreki”: If that snake-infested locality
discussion has not had the lid closed, and if Papua
isn’t outside the limit, I nominate Kanosia, near
Port Moresby, for the snake-skin belt. Snakes, par-
ticularly death-adders, are so numerous there that
they almost emptied the treasury of the Rubber Co.
that owns the property. The eo. used to pay 3d.
per head for reptiles, and in 12 months over 3800
were accounted for. Farther inland, the rock-
python is fairly numerous, and I have seen speci-
mens of 22ft. or thereabouts frequently. When one
is captured it is Christinas in that village, and the
odor of cooked snake lingers in the atmosphere for
a day or so.
“J.S.N.”: Reckon my old sheepdog was
the last word in animal intelligence. Dunno who
bred him; he came to the hut one day, footsore, and
looking as if he had deserted a sinking drover, and I
took him in. I suppose he felt like asking for a
job, for, when I got up the next morning, he had the
killing sheep in the yard. After that, for a while,
I used to rattle the knife on the steel when I wanted
them brought up, but he soon got to know the kill-
ing days himself, and would always have them ready,
lie learned to close the gate, too. He would nose it
over till it closed, and then put the peg in with his
teeth. One day the peg was missing, and he stuck
his tail in the hole to keep the gate closed till I
came down and made a new peg. I was teaching
him to play crib when he died.
THE WRONG HALF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jim came into the Mission House,
His nose was badly cut,
Beneath his eye there lurked a mouse,
A red and angry rut
Was rippling down his cheek and chin.
Now Jim had been from beer and sin
By Brother Smith —whom Satan hated—
Most wonderfully rescued, and then quite re-
generated.
“James!” cried the shocked Evangelist,
“Oh! what is that I see ?
Again you’ve raised your horny fist
In horrid enmity.
We thought at home must grace accrue,
And bless your better half and you.”
“If that’s your game,” then James asserted,
“You’ve made a bloomin’ error — it’s the wrong
half you’ve converted!”
VICTORIA.
S.S.
Papua Wants to Stretch.
From a Papuan correspondent:—
When do Australian statesmen, who profess so
much admiration for citizen liberties, and particu-
larly for the franchise, propose to re-frame the Con-
stitution they should have been ashamed to fasten
upon Papua, the Commonwealth’s first colony? As
thing's are now, the territory is governed by an Exe-
cutive and Legislative Council, composed of six
official and three non-official members. The latter
are nominated, which means they are chosen, by the
Lieutenant-Governor, so that thfi white population
is disfranchised altogether. Further, we are deprived
of trial by jury, except on a capital charge. Even
then, only four jurymen are empanelled. When a
bunch of Senators visited the Possession recently,
these, and. many other unfairnesses, were explained
to them by the whites, and a demand made for re-
dress, though*- what will come of it I do not pretend
to know. But I do know that whatever is done
should be done quickly. The worst form of govern-
ment known to history is despotic government, and
by the sole powers of promotion or dismissal, which
the Lieutenant-Governor holds over his executive
officers, he is practically a despot.
The white population, taxed up to £46 a head,
as shown by the Papuan Estimates for 1911, have no
voice in the expenditure of the revenue, which pro-
bably accounts for the fact that so little of the money
comes their way. The Commonwealth Minister for
External Affairs said, some time back, that “Papua
was governed primarily for the natives.” I believe
him. On the year’s estimates for the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department and the Public Works Department,
£23,467 was set down to provide black brother with
some of the benefits of civilisation. For medical
attendance a sum of £6578 was granted, of which
only £440 will go to the European hospital. Mean-
while, the white man, when he is sick, has to pay
very heavy medical charges to private doctors, or go
into the hospital and pay £4 4s. a week for the
privilege. As a matter of fact, the hospital is
simply a private institution, subsidised by the Gov-
ernment from the taxes raised out of the white popu-
lation. And after paying the taxes, the white popu-
lation (which is about 1000 men, women and
children) are bled again when ill-health drives them
into their own hospital. Could anything be more
atrocious ?
Another Papuan requirement is a preferential
tariff with Australia, in order to save the growing
trade to Brisbane and Sydney. At present, tropical
suits, costing 30s. in Australia, can be landed in the
territory from Singapore for 10s. 6d., plus the Papuan
duty. Same thing applies to furniture and other
goods, and if the Commonwealth doesn’t take some
steps to prevent it, the Papuan trade will go to the
North ; and once it is lost, it will not be recovered
for a long, long time.
A rebate should be arranged, too, between Australia
and Papua upon produce grown in the Possession.
At present, prohibitions and heavy duties are choking
enterprise upon the soil. Take, for instance, the
start made by some people to cultivate coffee.
Thousands of pounds had been sunk in that industry
when the Commonwealth put on a crushing duty, and
the scheme dropped dead in its tracks. The position
is, that there is a double tax on all goods coming
into the Possession from Australia, and a prohibitive
tariff waiting for the goods we would like to send
into Australia. I don’t know how you expect your
baby to grow on the diet. We ought also to have
wireless installations at each of the three principal
ports, and a better mail service. In existing circum-
stances Papua is farther away from Australia than
Siberia. There are a few other little requirements,
such as an improved Civil Service, but I’ll pass them
over just now. If the other grounds for complaint
are removed, I’ll be satisfied for a week or two. So
would every other white person in the Possession.


This Is the young cocky S° r °* ,0 get mar '' ied
His wives would chop wood and do other accessary work.
men Solomon, the
eoeky-ln-all-his-glory. g
would sit round and super-fe
*lse the farm. V.
The 600 children would get up early
And milk, gratis, a cow so numerous that she would be like the stars ol
the firmament for numerosity
The cocky*
Solomon’s 100 '
***** would start (or
the factory amid a dust
cloud half-a-mile high.
And the weekly cheque would'be this size.
THE GREAT KINGDOM OF COW.
The Bulletin rises to propose that polygamy should be legalised in the cheap-labor dairying Industry.


Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are a safe and certain remedy for Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Liver Troubles, Flatulence, Anaemia, etc.
Sold at lOid. and Is. 6d.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY
For
DURABILITY.
20th Century Moleskin.
The Best for Hard Wear.
/ ...
Registered Trade Mark.
[WARRANTED PURECOTTOITj
See that the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Garments can be obtained at all Storekeepers.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
I 1 rank Whysall, who goes up to the head
ot the Post and Telegraph service in Wes-
tralia, has been most things in the N. S.
Wales department, from telegraph messen-
ger to acting superintendent of mails Be-
tween times, he was head of the telephone
branch, and left about i>st. behind him when
he was sent on up to the Mails ; for to Why-
sall his work is the most serious thing in the
world, and a contrivance like a telephone,
which, so far, is a makeshift at the best, is
Gehenna to a man like that.
It seems a pity that the new Westralian
Premier is named Scaddan—John Scaddan
It is suggestive of Salem Scudder, of “The
Octoroon.” There are some names which
always sound comic or undignified—names
like Snooks, Bloggs, ldogsflesh, Smike, Job-
son, AVhistleshaft, Rabbit, Diggory, Dodery,
Higgles, Sloper, Short, Scully and a multi-
tude besides. Scaddan is better than most
of these, yet it is a misfortune.
PHIL
PINK LEST PIN,
of Melbourne Roya!,
Press agent to the
Combine.
On the day of
E. L. Batche-
lor’s death a
mass meeting
of mu n i cipaL
employees was
held in the Gai-
ety Tliea t r e
(Melb.). While
th e chairman
was speaking, a
man entered the
building in a
hurry, and, go-
ing on the
platform, whis-
pered s o m e-
thing. There-
upon, the chair-
man announced,
with emotion,
that a true
friend of the
workers had
just died sud-
denly King
O’Malley. The
King was eu-
logised suffici'
ently to make
even him blush,
and a resolu-
tion of condol-
ence with his
“widow” was
passed in sil-
ence, all the
audience standing. A moment later it was an-
nounced that an error had been made, and
that it wasn’t O’Malley who was dead. The
motion is to be rescinded at next meet-
ing. Meantime, a copy cannot be sent to
O’Malley’s widow, because he hasn’t got one.
Colonel Airey, the small, hard-bitten,
lightweight fighting-man whom several
generations of Australian warriors knew so
well, has just died in S’Africa. He was born
in Yorkshire, of military stock, in 1844.
First saw service on the N.W. frontier of
India. Came to Australia in 1866, and in
1879 joined the R.A.A. In 1885 he went
with the local contingent to the Soudan.
Next year, war having broken out in Bur-
mah, he took his sword there, served during
1886-7, was wounded, received the thanks of
the Governor-General, and was mentioned in
despatches. Returning to Australia, he ex-
pended his surplus stock of energy and cour-
age in the hunting field. No one ever fol-
lowed the Sydney Drag with more dash and
skill than Airey. Pie was Master for some
years, and those were the palmiest days of
that somewhat wilted body. When the Boer
war broke out he was given command of the
Ist Regiment of Australian Bushmen, and
served till 1901. He was a D.S.O. and a
C.M.G., and owned enough medals, bars,
ribbons and things to sink a dinghy.
From the office psychologist:—
Walter Hall, whose memory the S. M. Herald
went near to making ridiculous, came of poor parents
and had known poverty himself. Amongst ..is friends
were men who had dropped from the status of mil-
lionaires, or thereabouts, to genteel indigence—-
wholly the result of being what Hall was not. Like
so many of our rich men, he lacked the capacity for
life. Material comfort didn't mean much to him.
He found the smoking-room of an hotel or a club as
pleasing as the most luxurious resort that the mind
of man could conceive. Whisky tasted as good to him
as the rarest of the world’s vintages. Until quite
lately, when he bought a motor-car, he got about the
city—when he did not do it on foot—in any old cab
that came hand}'. In short, with an income that
would have allowed him the best that the world had
co offer, he possessed the tastes of the average bank
clerk or floor-walker.
Being uncultivated mentally—another respect in
which he resembled 9!H per cent, of our rich men
—the thought of buying pictures or books on a big
scale, or patronising local art or literature, or
endowing a University, or helping in the beautifica-
tion of the city he inhabited, never occurred to him.
On occasion, he would seize his cheque-book and
spend money more or less freely, according to his
lights. The trouble was, his lights were so dim.
Like the vast majority of his class, he lacked the
capacity for independent thought on nearly every
question unconnected with business. This type
thinks, socially and politically, according to formulae
supplied by the nevVspaoers. No other theory
serves to explain and condone such mammoth exam-
ples of misdirected lavishness as Walter Hall’s gift
of £lO,OOO to the imbecile Dreadnought subscrip-
tion fund.
His case suggests, yet again, that the millionaire
is one of the things they still do better in Britain.
By the death of Norman Selfe, the Ma
State has lost an eminent engineer and a
good citizen. _ lie came to Sydney, with his
father, in 1855, at the age of 15 years, and
was at once articled to the engineering firm
of P. N. Russell and Co. lie pushed on
fast, and for seYeral years before the
partnership was dissolved was responsible
lor all the engineering work carried out by
the firm. After that, he was the superin-
tending engineer to two shale and oil cos.
Then, under engagement to the Gas Co., he
erected the new head station, and designed
several of the prominent buildings still
standing. lie left the Gas Co. to become
chief draftsman and engineer to Mort’s
Dock, and when, with the help of the late
T. S. Mort, lie started business on his own
account, he visited 70 cities in Kurope and
the United States, and made himself ac-
quainted with the world’s great engineer-
ing works. During his long career, he de-
signed the hulls or machinery or both, for
over 40 steamers, including the Australian
torpedo vessels; the double-ended screw 7
ferryboats were introduced by him to Syd-
ney Harbor, and he produced the design for
the North Shore bridge which won the
Government’s prize, and is shortly to be con-
sidered by the Works Committee.
“B de D” counts up the other Debretters :
Australia is always bumping against a baronet or
something, and begging his pardon, and telling him
it didn’t know he was there. It bumped like that
against John Bonnet Lawes-Witteronge the other
morning, and .John bumped against the baronetcy in
an equally casual way. He is a tutor, and was loaf-
ing at Brighton (Vic.) when somebody told him of
the death of his father, an eminent artist and athlete.
The new baronetess was a Miss Cox ; her mother lives
at Mosman (N.S.W.). 11. O’Brien Blake, who died
a few days, back, was also one of us. He was the
second son of the 13th Blake baronet, of Galway.
After a career of adventure, such as befits second
sons, he settled as a cockv in the Wirnmera, and
made some money. There is, or was, another Blake
in, Vic. —Louisa, daughter of the 13th baronet, who
in 1862 married Thomas Ulick Burke, of Smythes-
dale, then a roaring mining camp. He died in ’67,
and his widow married John King. Then there is
Sir Henry Castres Kellett, of liew, who was last
week made a J.P. —the only baronet J.P. on the Vic-
torian list, though there is a count there—the
amiable Von Horn, once of Germany, but now tilling
the soil in the Wodonga district. " The heir to an-
other baronetcy was committed for trial in Westralia
a while ago charged with improner behavior towards
a girl; but though the girl’s mother was gib-
beted in the papers, I never saw any mention of what
happened to the gentleman. Perhaps the papers were
too awed to tell.
Ilev. E. S. Hughes, the
tall High Church parson of
St. Peter’s, Melbourne, has
been elected a canon of St.
Paul’s Cathedral. Hughes
thought he had reached the
end of his career when, a
few years ago, an attack of
influenza left him quite
blind. However, he retired
hopefully to Medlow, in the
Blue Mountains, and there,
after a restful interval, he
gradually got back his sight.
Hughes, clear-eyed and alert
as ever, is never likely to
forget that dark time.
Reminiscences by “0.1 v.”
John Bennett Lawes-Wittewronge, the Melbourne
resident who inherited a baronetcy the other day,
ought to be something of an expert in agriculture.
His grandfather, the original John Bennett Lawes,
was so pre-eminently the first of scientific farmers
in poor old England that the Government bart.-ed
him for his laboratory labors. Within 25 miles of
London he established the model farm that is now
managed by an incorporated society. It was J. B.
Lawes’s first-born, just dead, who tacked Wittewronge
to his honorable family name. He was the champion
amateur oarsman and athlete of his young days, and
his misguided ambition in life was to become a
famous sculptor. He did achieve celebrity, not for
his artistic work, butfor his costly feud with a suc-
cessful rival —one Richard Belt. Belt, it was said,
took credit for some rather fine bits of sculpture
which had been performed by “ghosts” in his employ.
He was a “self-made man” with a good business head
and an unscrupulous talent for self-advertisement.
The high-toned members of the cult hated Belt, and
Charles Lawes called him a blighted and wormy im-
postor, or words to that effect. Result, a terribly
expensive libel suit —Belt v. Lawes, which ended in
a verdict for the plaintiff. Indirectly, it ruined
Belt. A few years later, his old enemies got to hear
of him taking somebody down in a jewellery trans-
action. The “mug” was incited to charge Belt with
fraud, and he came to grief in the Criminal
Court. Charles Lawes, plus Wittewronge, figured of
late years as President of the Society of British
Sculptors, an empty, but sounding distinction. His
only son, the new baronet, has been a rolling-stone
seemingly, and there is no mention of any family
estates that he has succeeded to.
Beknighted Findlay, M.L.C. and Attor-
ney-General, has decided to resign from the
Maoriland Leg. Council and seek election to
the Reps. Nine years ago, he was induced
by Richard Seddon to contest a Wellington
seat at short notice, and was turned down.
This time he will hunt the elusive vote in
Parnell (Auckland). If lie doesn't win the
seat he says he will retire from public life,
which is obviously all that will be left for
him to do. Findlay is one of M.L.’s native-
born clever men, and rose from a poor clerk-
ship to his present position without any aid
but his own brain. But what he gains in
brnin he lacks in strength of character, and,
to-day, witn the exception of a few fancy
side-lines, is little more than a fluent bar-
racker for lou Ward and his policy of “lend’s
a quid or two. - ’ His ambition is abnormal,
and he doesn’t know how to get there, which
was the case of the brilliant dog that tried
to climb a tree.
Walter Russell Hall, who died in Sydney
last week, will probably be found to
have been worth uist about as much as the
late Samuel Horaern. Mount Morgan shares
are not what they were a few months back ;
out, even so, the Hall estate will most likely
pan out well over three millions. In the T>o’s
and Ws, the deceased was one of three who
ran Cobh and Co.’s business in N. S. Wales
and Queensland, and that took him on to
the squatting business ; but his big rise came
through Mount Morgan, out of which he
must have made, one way and another, much
over a million. He wasn’t profligate; and
he had no children to he profligate, either.
Kelso King, of the Mercantile Mutual In-
surance Co., helped him to nurse his money;
and with pastoral investments, and as much
Sydney city property as was in any one
man’s hands, the fortune rolled along. The
company-promoter of recent years didn’t get
much out of him, except brief and sharp-
pointed remarks, and naturally didn’t reckon
that he was doing much good with his
money; still he dropped a few big lumps
into Australian enterprises, and he got a lot
of satisfaction in helping to show that the
Australian youngster could do as well as
anybody else. He was 81 when he died, and
he probably wouldn’t have died even then if
the recent Randwick race meeting hadn’t
been a bit too much for him.
BITTERNESS ON BOTH SIDES.
SHE (during the row): "Call yourself a maul
Why , you're only an apology for one!”
HE: “Yes, my dear , and you accented the
apology .”
“Ped.” writes:—
The heart failure that Labor Minister Batchelor
succumbed to must have been due mainly to his'
visit to Britain during the Coronation hustle. He
died, as Dick Seddon died, of the eternal round of
speeching, travelling, and compulsory feasting inci-
dental to what the Tory press described as a “holiday
jaunt.” The fact that he.was quite out of condition
became apparent to Batchelor as soon as he began to
climb a hill. He had gone a whole year or more
without walking a mile at a stretch, he said, but in
that year he had given his willing brain and re-
luctant stomach twice as much work as they wanted
to. keep them in form. The duties of a political
Minister are as hard or as easy as he cares to make
them, and Batchelor made strenuous labor of his job.
The duties of a delegate politician in a foreign
country at a Coronation time ought not to be im-
posed upon such workers. What is meat to a George
Reid, Tom Bent, John Forrest or Jack Murray is
poison to men of nervous temperament. The ’ first
notable result of Prime Minister Fisher’s trip to
Britain was his painful breakdown in the House, some
three 'weeks ago. In Batchelor’s case the result was
death.
Gave up the spectre, a few days back, in
Adelaide, William Thornley, for many years
the engineer associated with W. Sandford in
the plucky struggle to establish an iron and
steel business at Lithgow (N.S.W.). Thorn-
ley, who had previously made a speciality
of railway interlocking, was engaged on a
job of that sort, in connection with the Ade-
laide trams, when the whistle blew for the
knock-off.
THE LATE HARRY RICKARDS.
It’s a long- while since Westralia had an
Attorney-General who knew what a brief
was when he got the law billet. The
Scadden Government hasn’t an Attorney-
General at the moment; but it is understood
that Tommy Walker, who has studied law,
will be It as soon as he is “admitted.” Mean-
time, he is Minister for Justice. Nanson
was Attorney-General for Wilson and
Moore, and he also had only been “admitted ’
late in life, and hadn’t had time to knock a
business together. Rason, in his short reign,
pulled through without, an Attorney, Dag-
lish having set the fashion in his Labor
Ministry, for the very good reason that he
didn’t have a lawyer on the premises. Law-
yers, in fact, were scarce in the earlier
days of the Australian Labor party. There
are four Labor Governments now, and there
isn’t a law-Minister in the lot who was a
lawyer when he joined the party. Hughes
mended umbrellas and things, and had been
a school teacher; Holman was a cabinet-
maker ; Denny, of S. Aus., was a journalist;
and Tommy YValker was too many things to
mention.
“Rad” speaks:—
According to a cable in Melbourne Age last week,
the Unionists have adopted “Bob” Sievier for their
candidate in the Hoxton division of Shoreditch.
Sievier is a racing owner, and editor and
proprietor of the Winning Post—a weekly
which serves up crude Tory political views,
miscellaneous anecdotes and sporting items, in
about equal quantities. He has a ready, if
unlettered pen, and no vestige of a sense of the
ridiculous. The latter asset enables him to talk
down as from the. summit of the Matterhorn, or other
great height, to reputable persons, such as Prime
Minister Asquith, the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Winston Churchill, Augustine Birrell, etc., in the
phraseology which the village Squire employs what
time he rebukes a larcenous stable-hand.
Seven or eight years ago, Sievier was brought
into the Gazing Boom of the Raleigh Club for a
few minutes. The Raleigh is a “pot-house” frank
and unashamed ; and, anyhow, the Gazing Room (a
sort of annexe overlooking Regent-street, where mem-
bers and others gather to consult the “tape”
and absorb alcohol) is no more part of
the club proper than is the Strangers’ Room at
one of our local nstitutions. Yet, it was consid-
ered that the Raleigh had been defiled, and one
of the members—Sir James Duke —said so. Sievier
brought a libel action, and, in the ensuing trial, his
strenuous career was made a subject of comment.
A parson’s son, he embarked early on the Frivolous
Life. In Australia he was a ready-money bookie,
and some paralysing tales (or l’es) were told of his
doings during that period, and on his subsequent
return to England. After hearkening to very vivid
evidence of this kind for about a week, the Court
found, in effect, that Sievier was not qualified for the
Archangel Michael’s job, and recorded a verdict to
that effect, or thereabouts. Sievier was next in
trouble at Newmarket Heath —the same sort of thing
which once happened to the heir to the British
Crown. Financial embarrassment sat at his
door after the manner of that Norse lady
of whom it was said that “Precipice was
her threshold; Care was her thorny bed.” At this
exciting moment he started the Winning Post, and
is now a rich man. And the Tory party evidently
considers that he is eligible for what used to be “the
best club in Europe.” As Sievier, who is strong
on cheap classicism, would put it: “Eheu
futjaces! How is thy glory faded, O Israel! It was
not thus in my hot youth, when Plancus was Con-
sul.” And so forth.
Apropos; the late “Swish” Broadwood, sportsman.
roue and mammoth piano-manufacturer, was kicked
out of the Badminton Club some years ago, owing
to his exasperating habit of hurling the smoking-
room clock into Piccadilly, whenever he got tight. A
week later, he wrote playfully, inviting the com-
mittee to dine with him at the Carlton Club, to
which Mecca of High Toryism he had just been
elected. British Conservatism doesn’t worry much
about its votaries’ characters in these days of its
desperation.
STIRRING INTELLIGENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Premier of Victoria paid a visit to the Pathe
establishments for the purpose of seeing the current
issue of the “Pathe Australian Animated News,”
which includes very interesting pictures of the arrival
of the Premier at Spencer-street station. —Melbourne
Age.
A compliment to John, no doubt;
But this is all it proves:
Although he mostly lies about,
At intervals he moves.
N.S.W.
FLICK.


" I
m
m
; I!
tm
mm
SV?
mm§
I
££&
£ A
Mm
<5»
ru
m
v*
**&&
wjys£%?
<ff»*
Tis the Only Country on Earth !
HAVE you ever realised that Australia is the only country on earth that you can see the
sheep shorn; go to Vicars’, where the wool is woven into all wool, pure wool, and nothing
but wool Marrickville Tweed; and then to Gowing’s, who merchandise the famous
Austral Suits, and thus forge the links of the chain from sheep to shop? We quote —
The “Austral” to Measure (Machine-made), 635., 705., 755.
The “Austral” Special (Hand-made), 845., 905., 955., 105 s.
486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 7,9,
11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMPS
For
ALL SERVICES.
GAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
32-34 CLARENCE .STREET, SYDNEY
Apply
««
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.,
P.D.” Grease &t “P.D.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION. Sole Agents for Queensland, E.S.C.A., Ltd., Brisbane.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Sept*, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900.. £l7OO 5 per cent. = £1250 £450 £4,258
1901.. 2074 6 „ „ 1500 574 4,832
1902.. 2302 0 ~ ~ 1500 802 5,634
1903.. 3939 8 ~ ~ 2000 1939 7,573
1904.. 4226 8 ~ ~ 2000 2226 9,799
1905.. 6724 10 ~ ~ 2500 4224 14,023
1906.. 5172 10 ~ ~ 2500 2672 16,695
1907.. 5118 10 „ ~ 2500 2618 19,313
1908.. 6013 10 „ ~ 2500 3513 22,826
1909.. 5712 10 „ ~ 2500 3212 26,038
1910.. 6463 10 ~ „ 2500 3963 30,001
1911.. 6241 10 „ ~ 2500 3741 33,742
National prosperity helps a trustee co. in several
ways. First, such a co. gets its income from two
main sources—(l) annual commission on the earn-
ings of the trust estate and (2) a lump commission
on the corpus or capital value. Prosperity means
a bigger income for the trust estate, and, therefore,
a bigger commission for the trustee; also the capital
value is swollen and the commission on the corpus
swells too. So its two main sources of revenue
benefit. Prosperity also makes many a man feel
that his estate is worth handing over to a trustee
co. And, finally, when revenues are moving up, and
properties are fetching more than they were valued
at, the trustee co. doesn’t stand much risk of being
shot at; it is when things go the other way that
disappointed beneficiaries fossick round for some
cause of action against the trustee. All these and
probably a few other things help to explain why
the profits of this and other trustee cos. have im-
proved so much during the last few years; and they
also suggest that, when things in general sag, their
profits will sag too. No doubt the normal tendency
will be upwards: the trustee co. is, as a rule, so
well equipped for the special job it has to do, and
the private trustee is often so badly equipped, that
it seems inevitable that the professional trustee
will more and more displace the other sort. Doubt-
less, however, a Commonwealth or State trustee will
arrive in N.S.W. presently, and enter into competi-
tion, as in Great Britain and elsewhere; and that
must make some difference to the co.’s prospects.
Still, in that connection, this has to be remembered —
the fatter the citizen and his estate, the more likely,
as a rule, will he be to feed the Private Enterprise
concern, if he can’t get the State to do the work
for nothing or thereabouts. This particular co.—
one of only two in N.S.W. —is making rapid pro-
gress. Ten years ago the estates in hand were
valued at £1,365,337 ; now. though circumstances
have lately favored rapid winding up, the total is
£3,130,932. Its own paid capital is £25,000, with
another £975,000 uncalled (a nice little guarantee
fund that the co. will do its duty) ; and practically
the whole of the funds are represented by public
securities ( £20,000) and mortgages ( £39,391). As-
suming that these earn on the average only a shade
over 4 p.c., they now produce the entire 10 p.c.
div., leaving the whole profit from the business to
go towards the strengthening of' reserves. And
strong reserves mean—(l) Better security for clients
and beneficiaries; (2) a guarantee that the div. will
be maintained even though unpleasant things happen
to the community, and, consequently, to the co.’s
business profits.
The West End Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane):—
Dividend and Written Re-
• July, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves,
i 903.. £945
1904.. £5184 10 per cent. = £3102 £2725 302
1905.. 5746 8 ~ ~ 2486 3287 275
1906.. 4685 8 ~ ~ 2705 1823 432
19 >7.. 4893 10 ~ ~ 3870 1426 29
1908.. 3629 6 „ „ 2324 1193 141
1909.. 1835 Nil 576 1400
1910.. 704 Nil 904 1200
Loss. Deficit.
1911.. 3607 Nil _ 2407
After referring shareholders to the accounts, the di-
rectors remark: “You will note that ample provision
has been made for depreciations, etc.” They will
not note anything of the sort unless they have very
much better eyesight than this paper owns. It is
true that the gibbering skeleton of a Profit and
Loss account mentions —“Salaries, wages, commis-
sion... depreciations... etc, £10,807,” but the de-
preciation allowed for may be £5OOO and ample, or
eighteenpence and wretched. Yet, without informa-
tion on the point, no reliable opinion can be formed
about the year’s operations. Perhaps it doesn’t
matter much, because the past year’s transactions
were abnormal, anyhow, inasmuch as the Brisbane
breweries spent eight or nine months in clawing at
one another, and cutting prices, and the mania
wasn t ended until June. With harmony restored,
profits will probably go back to their old level —if
there was a level; the figures suggest something more
like a precipice. Perhaps things might look better
if one could get under the surface; but, on the sur-
face, there is certainly nothing at all that is attrac-
tive. The paid capital is £39,289. Other items
can be grouped this way:—
1904. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Liabilities .. ..£5733 £14,037 £14,105 £15,307
Liquid assets (book
debts, cash, etc.) .. 7135 9,937 8,544 6,941
Surplus .. ..£1402 _ _
Deficit .. .. £4,100 £5,561 £8,366
And since 1904 the paid capital has been in-
creased from £29,558 to £39,289. Of course the
money has gone into premises, plant, stock, etc. ;
but where is the return for it?
* * * *
The Bellambi Coal Co. (N.S.W.)—the last
few years of a remarkably prosperous concern;—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1907.. 17$ p.c. = £30,625 £77,351
£25,000 transferred to Capital .. 52,351
1908.. £61,936 17$ p.c. = 35,000 £26,936 79,287
1909.. 53,879 15 „ „ 36,250 17,629 96,916
1910.. 57,345 12$ „ ~ 31,250 26,095 123,011
1911.. 73,961 17$ ~ ~ 43,750 30,211 153,222
These people, who will be making money presently
if they are not careful, have had an amazing run
of good luck and good management. Formed in
1888, the co. moved very slowly for some years.
But it was in the right hands; and, when the high
value of the coal for bunkering purposes was
demonstrated, those hands were strong enough to
push the business under the right noses. Malcolm
McEacharn, of the big shipping firm, was a director;
so were (and are) James Burns, of 8., P. and Co.,
and Adam Forsyth, of the A.U.S.N. ; so, in his day,
was old David Syme, of the Age. Among them they
whipped up the most valuable shipping connection
in Australia. On top of that came the coke in-
dustry, which turned the small stuff into money;
the Broken Hill Prop, ovens are fed by this co’.
The directors were far-seeing men, too, and, before
the full possibilities of the case were apparent, they
added the South Bulli to their original holding, for
a comparative trifle, and brought their principality
up to 200,000 acres.
For many years the co. was in 175,000 shares.
Then £25,000 was transferred from reserves, and
£50,000 was got in, though it wasn’t wanted; and
thus the total was brought up to £250,000, the full
amount authorised. Before there are any more dis-
tributions, etc., there will consequently have to be
a change in the articles. The little list printed
above shows £73,961 profit for the year. Part of
this—£2s,ooo, to be exact —is, however, an amount
added to the fund for the insurance of steamers and
to cover depreciation of plant and mine. But it
does not follow that that is the only provision made
for depreciation; on the contrary, there is plenty
of evidence that, in some years at least, large
amounts have been written off. Large improvements
and plant additions were made last year, yet the
book value of collieries, jetties, steamers, railways
and plant was increased by only £2532. They
probably cost at least £lO,OOO more. Compared
with 1905, the grouped balance-sheet figures have
changed like this:—•
1905. 1910. 1911.
Liabilities .. .. £39,445 £12,017 £13,458
Assets —
Mines, plant, steamers 209,345 265,069 267,601
Stores and stock . . 4,591 7,334 7,760
Liquid assets . . 55,183 131,375 166,319
Between 1905 and 1911 £50,000 of new capital was
got in, but that was more than absorbed by new
steamers and plant. The cash position has become
bloated to this extent:—
1905. 1911.
Liquid assets .. .. £59,774 £174,079
Liabilities . . .. 39,445 13,458
£20,329 £160,621
That is £140,292 in six years, after paying fat
dividends. And practically the whole of the liquid
assets are cash and public securities. Certainly this
co. can’t be accused of eating its cake and putting
nothing in the stocking towards buying another
one.
* * * *
The Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co. :
Reserves
Added (including
to Re- Sinking
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
1900.. £12.381 10 p.c. = £9OOO £3381 £20,644
1901.. 12,356 10 „ „ 9000 3356 24,000
1902 .. 12,005 10 „ „ 9753 ' 2252 26,252
New share premiums .. .. 114 26,366
1903.. 12,233 9 p.c. = 9450 2783 29,149
1904 .. 11,540 8 „ ~ 8400 3140 32,289
1905.. 11,678 8 ~ „ 8400 3278 35,567
1906.. 11,736 8,, „ 8400 3336 38,903
£26,250, being one-fourth of capital, returned 12,653
1907.. 11,408 8 p.c. = 7350 4058 16,711
1908.. 9,944 8 ~ ~ 6300 3644 20,355
Assets further written down, £10,806 .. 9,549
1909 .. 9,666 8 p.c. = 6300 3366 12,915
1910 .. 10,193 8,, „ 6300 38.93 16,808
1911 .. 8,739 8 „ ~ 6300 2439 19,247
The profits shown above include sinking fund accre-
tions, but exclude amounts written off against wear
and tear. In 1907 £26,250 of capital was repaid;
and the loss of interest on that amount explains
the shrinkage in profits which occurred thereafter.
Also, since unequal amounts are written off from
year to year, the profit column does not give a
strictly accurate view of the trading operations.
This shows things better:—
Gross Available
Trading for Depreciation
Revenue. Expenses, and Profit, etc.
1900 .. £21,670 £Bl4O £13,530
1905 .. 20,770 8714 12,056
1906 .. 20,827 8869 11,958
1907 .. 20,687 8940 11,747
1908 .. 20,358 9006 11,352
1909 .. 19,771 9041 10,730
1910 .. 19,247 8956 10,291
1911 .. 19,578 8658 10,922
There is nothing very cheerful about that. Mel-
bourne has been growing, but this co.’s revenue has
been rather dwindling than otherwise, no doubt as
the result of electrical competition. Still, things are
far from bad. In 1908 it was agreed that it would
be necessary to put asfcie £3020 a year to provide
for the return of capital by the time the co.’s rights
expired, and to provide for the upkeep of plant
meantime. An 8 p.c. div. calls for £6300, so the
agreed-upon contributions and the dividend together
make £9320 a year. The average surplus on
working account after paying exes, in the past three
years has been £10,647; so there is a very fair
margin, after paying the 8 p.c. div., to provide for
contingencies. The sinking fund, by the way, is
invested in public securities, except for a few
pounds sunk in land.
The Australasian Motor Cab Co.—
For 12 months past Australian shareholders in this
concern have been seeking information, and now that
it is available they probably wish it wasn’t. The co.
was promoted in London early last year, with an
Australian advisory Board consisting of J. H. Car-
ruthers and Arthur Allen; and the prospectus was
one of the most impudent ever issued in the Com-
monwealth. Altogether, 194,000 preference shares
(7 p.c.) were offered, of which 55,000 were under-
written “for a commission payable by the co. at the
rate of 7p.c. in cash and 1 p.c. in ordinary
shares.” Thus, for underwriting about one-fourth of
the issue, the underwriters (the Straits Syndicate,
Ltd.) got £4125 in cash and 1 p.c. in ordinary
shares. Now, these ordinary shares were Is. each;
so the 1 p.c. meant 11,000 such shares, and ordinary
shares were entitled to one-half the profits after the
pref. 7 p.c. was paid. Besides getting this exorbitant
payment for underwriting, the Straits Syndicate,
Ltd., got £7850 and the right to take a big swag
of ordinary shares for paying certain preliminary
expenses. Further, the Straits Syndicate, Ltd.,
agreed to supply 25 motor-cabs and 275 chassis at
a price. In a circular issued by the managing
director, it is now alleged that, of the 194,000 pref.
shares, only 55,931 were applied for, including only
5837 in England. The Straits Syndicate applied for
some of these shares, but couldn’t, or didn’t, com-
plete payment, and these shares have been forfeited;
also, the S. Syndicate let a sub-contract for the
supply of the vehicles, and the contractors also ap-
plied for some shares, and they were in the same
leaky boat. The co. paid 25 p.c. deposit on the
vehicles. Says the managing director: “The climax
came with the financial failure of the manufacturer
and the consequent inability of the Straits Syndicate,
Ltd., to make good the deposit paid to the manufac-
turer. The manufacturer’s assets were shown to be
insufficient to cover the secured creditors, conse-
quently it would be futile to put into operation any
legal remedy.” This suggests either that the
directors made an appallingly bad contract with the
Straits Syndicate, Ltd., or that the Straits Syndi-
cate, Ltd., was in a shockingly bad way itself. Any-
how, the co.’s deposit went up the spout to the extent
of £3900, and altogether the 55,000 shares only
gave £35,400, after various London sharks had had
their bite.
To add to its woes, the Motor-Cab Co. proceeded
to get ready its organisation in Sydney; and then
the taxis didn’t arrive. Under the contract with the
Terrible Straits crowd —into whose financial position
nobody seems to have inquired—loo cabs should
have been delivered from June, 1910, to March
1911, whereas none at all were available until Oc-
tober, 1910, and then they dropped in casually until
by the end of September, 1911, there were 47—a daily
average of 26. Under the circumstances it isn’t very
surprising that whereas “the gross revenue amounted
to £9307, the working exes., excluding directors’
fees and London office exes., amounted to £8268.”
The idea now is to bleed the present shareholders
for another ss. per share—to wind up the present co
and issue a 15s. share for a £1 share. Those who
don t choose to pay up will get what they can out of
the liquidation, and it probably won’t be much. The
new co. will, of course, be registered in Australia—
there seem to be too many hungry wild animals
roaming in London to make it safe for the co. to
live there. The scheme would probably bring in
about £13,500, which it is calculated would com-
plete the co. s equipment. Simultaneously, it is
proposed to issue one pref. share for every five or-
dinanes, though why these new pref. shares shouldn’t
y c equ !p? (l to P a T up their ss. per share isn’t ob-
vious. They ought to do something for their living.
Most of the ordinaries (against which it is proposed
lssue u V em) We , re lssued in return for “services”
performed by people who made such a howling mess
of things that it would be difficult to find a parallel
“ r c ' r ! n loca i history; and the less consideration
be encouraged ThiS SOrt ° f thin = Wouldn’t
Watson’s Bay and South Shore Ferry Co.
(Sydney)
Tnno A PP a r ent lv Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ i9ns ®P- c -= £ 464 £noo mo
« » .• 433 _ 775 '2015
h „ „ 433 - 721 2730
1907" « » ” 433 - 1434 4170
190 S" f .... 433 £1398 - 3202
1909" e” ” 433 ~ 1235 4437
1910* * « ” ” 433 “ 931 5368
191?" 909- «” ” 433 408 5776
1911.. 202 / 6,, „ 433 1594 7370
Of the year’s profit—described above as “ap-
profit —£1232 has been added to the De-
preciation Fund; so, if that represents actual wear
and tear, not otherwise provided for, the actual
unon Z aS -f 79 \u Prapticaliy everything depmds
upon the vigor with which depreciation is provided
for out of revenue. If we presume that just a fair
nri n^+- S w ( ? ltte V‘ off > or Put to the credit of the De-
K2 elatl ° n Fu " d ® ach year, and that what is left is
foflows 1 -— PrOXXt ’ the C °* S recent recor d has been as
J 99 £ •’ £864 I 1910 .. £142
i} 998 ' ’ 998 I 1911 . . 796
1909 . . 664 |
Considering the very rapid strides made by Sydney,
nn* r V«. t m « ch comf °rt to be got by shareholders
out of those figures. This co., unlike the big ferry
cos. of Sydney, has to compete everywhere and
always with the trams ; and though the trams are at
times ol the day scandalously overcrowded and un-
comfortable, this co. isn’t able to offer a very at-
tractive alternative service. Further, it is handi-
capped by a considerable debt:—
T .,.,... 1906. 1911.
Liabilities .. .. £7944 £1 4 >032
Assets other than steamers 373 2,378
Deflcit •• £7571 £11,654
1G Co ‘ ha \thus drifted £4083 to leeward in nve
years, though, of course, it has added something to
meantime. The book-value of the fleet was
£19,394 in 1906, and it is £26,679 now. Unfor-
tunately, however, the addition doesn’t seem to have
the co much ’ lf an y to the profit accruing to
* * * *
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria):—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
June, 1904.. £2461 12 p.c. =£2520 £164 £lB 418
Dec., 1904.. 3142 12 „ „ 2520 £622 19,040
June, 1905.. 2537 12 ~ 2520 17 19 057
Dec., 1905.. 2710 12 „ „ 2520 200 - 19 047
June, 1906.. 2563 12 „ „ 2520 112 - 18 978
Dec., 1906.. 3271 12 „ „ 2520 - 751 19 729
June, 1907.. 2534 12 „ „ 2520 14 19’743
Dec., 1907.. 2576 12 ~ „ 2520 200 19*599
June, 1908.. 2609 12 „ „ 2520 210 - 19 478
Dec., 1908.. 2424 12 ~ ~ 2520 19*382
June, 1909.. 2752 12 ~ ~ 2520 192 40 19*422
Dec., 1909.. 2523 12 ~ „ 2520 251 19*174
June, 1910.. 2636 12 „ „ 2520 50 66 19*240
Dec., 1910.. 2973 12 ~ ~ 2520 50 403 19*643
June, 1911.. 2530 12 ~ ~ 2520 232 19*421
This co. is barely holding its own after paying the
• P;U- dividend. On its own showing, and assum-
ing that just enough has been written off to cover
depreciation, the reserves have had to be cut into
during the past four years to pay the dividend. The
thing can be looked at in another way:—
T . ~ x 1905. 1911.
Liquidassets £9OlB £6274
Liabilities . . . . . . e 1487
Surplus £8832 £4787
Thus, in order to pay dividends and provide for re-
pairs and extensions, the surplus of liquid assets has
been reduced in six years by £4045. Now, those
extensions have evidently not been of much conse-
quence; at any rate, the revenue from gas sales was
actually less in the past half-year (£5446) than it
was six years ago ( £5452). From all of which it
can only be concluded that the co.’s 12 p.c. is taking
every penny of legitimate current profit, and perhaps
a bit besides.
* * * *
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.)
Writ-
. . ten To Re- Re-
Fronts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £1769 5 p.c. =£lll7 £242 £4lO £3OBO
June, 1904.. 1831 6 „ „ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904.. 2097 6 ~ „ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905.. 2172 6 „ „ 1340 275 557 4190
Dec., 1905.. 2428 6 „ „ 1340 269 819 5009
June, 1906.. 2285 6 „ „ 1340 386 559 5568
Dec., 1906.. 2328 6 „ ~ 1340 439 549 6117
June, 1907.. 2183 6 „ ~ 1340 408 435 6552
Dec., 1907.. 2072 6 „ „ 1377 455 240 6792
June, 1908.. 1924 6„ „ 1490 810 6416
Dec., 1908.. 1962 6 „ „ 1490 807 6081
June, 1909.. 2465 6 „ „ 1490 968 7 6088
Dec., 1909.. 2633 6 „ „ 1490 933 210 6298
June, 1910.. 1627 1101 526 68'?4
Dec., 1910.. 2900 6 p.c. = 1490 1743 6491
Premiums on new shares .. .. 514 7005
June, 1911.. 3570 6 p.c. = 1618 705 1247 8252
Profits are stated gross, without any deduction for
depreciation ; and a great part of the amount written
oil has been actually spent on renewals. The re-
serves therefore include the provision for special re-
newals; which means that they are to some extent
merely a set-off against depreciation, and are not
true reserves. The actual surplus, after paying
dividends, has thus been probably a good deal less
than £5OOO in the past seven years—and that can’t
be regarded as a very liberal lay-by. The business
has, however, been increasing rapidly. In the first
half of 1905, the total sales were £4262; in the
past half-year, £BBO3. Certainly a bit of new capi-
tal has been got in: the total paid up is now
£59,943, as against £44,667 as at June, 1905. But
that wouldn’t double the turnover; so it is pretty
certain that the capital previously invested has been
giving a much better return; and this ought to mean
improved profits presently. So far, as shown above,
there hasn’t been much of a margin, after paying
the 6 p.c. dividend. The co.’s financial position is
easy: its liquid assets exceed its debts.
* * * *
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Queensland):
Dividends.
✓ A Written De-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. ficit.
June, 1904.. £l5Ol 9 p.c. =£ll6 £706 £ll6
Dec., 1904.. 1666 9 „ p.c. „ 719 831
June, 1905.. 1237 9„ „ 116 1237 116
Dec., 1905.. 1337 9„2£ ~ „ 717 504
June, 1906.. 1573 Nil 1573 _
Dec., 1906.. 1514 18 „2£ „ „ 833 681
June, 1907.. 1855 9„2£ „ „ 678 1177 —-
Dec., 1907.. 1917 9,,2| „ „ 678 1239
June, 1908.. 1880 9,,2| ~ „ 678 1202
Dec., 1908.. 2047 9 „ 2£ „ „ 678 1369
June, 1909.. 2229 9 „ 3J „ „ 902 1327
Re-
serves.
Dec., 1909.. 2504 9„3J ~ „ 902 1202 400
June, 1910.. 2332 9,,3j ~ „ 902 1430 400
Dec., 1910.. 2931 9„ 5 „ „ 1302 2029
June, 1911.. 2843 9 „ 5 „ „ 1302 1541
Down to about seven years ago this co. went on
paying gay dividends, and didn’t trouble about a
stupid little thing like depreciation of plant and
other assets; and that really meant paying divi-
dends out of capital. When the auditors struck
there were only two things to do: the co. might write
on capital, or it might knock off or reduce divi-
dends, and thus make good the old losses out of
future profits. It adopted the latter course; hence
the large amounts written off during the past few
years. The profit thus undivided has been used
mainly to reduce liabilities:—
June, ’O4. June, ’ll
Inabilities .. ..£26,702 £13,981
Liquid assets .. .. 6,124 6,266
Deficit.. ..£20,578 £7,715
The co. has thus improved what may be called its
cash position by £12,863 in seven years. That it
has got so much to the good is, however, improb-
able, because no doubt there has been further depre-
ciation during this period. Still, it is going the
right way. The trouble occurred chiefly in connec-
tion with the electric light department, which is still
barely able to pay its own exes., without providing
anything for wear and tear.
The Warwick Gas, Light, Power and Coal
Co. (Warwick, Q.): —
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off serves, serves.
Dec., 1905.. 5 p.c. =£394 £4O £235
June, 1906.. £558 5 ~ ~ 394 100 £64 299
Dec., 1906.. 517 5 „ ~ 394 100 23 322
June, 1907.. 624 5 ~ ~ 394 150 80 402
Dec., 1907.. 572 5 ~ ~ 394 130 48 450
June, 1908.. 642 5 ~ ~ 394 171 77 527
Dec., 1908.. 584 5 ~ ~ 394 140 50 577
June, 1909.. 662 5,, ~ 394 164 104 681
Dec., 1909.. 693 5 „ ~ 394 150 149 830
June, 1910.. 677 5 „ „ 394 200 83 913
Dec., 1910.. 609 5 ~ „ 394 150 65 978
June, 1911.. 666 5,, ~ 394 180 92 1070
In the past five years the surplus of more or less
liquid assets has increased only from £990 to £1139;
but evidently a good deal of surplus revenue has been
put into plant, mains, etc. The fact that gas revenue
has increased from £1144 to £1843 is pretty good
evidence of that. The present div. seems, therefore,
to be fully earned, and the outlook is distinctly
cheerful.
* * * *
The Country Producers’ Selling Co.
Sydney. These are a few belated remarks about a
more or less co-operative concern, formed in 1910, to
sell the farm and station —chiefly station —produce of
its shareholders_ and other people. It seems to have
got off with a jump, for in its first nine months it
stood third in the tally of sheep sales, and fourth
in the tally of cattle sales at Flemington. No doubt
on that account some people expected that it would
show a profit instead of a loss of £660 in its first
accounts; but as the Profit and Loss account shows
that “legal, preliminary and establishment expenses”
haye all been wiped out, the result may be viewed as
quite satisfactory. The co. paid nothing for good-
will ; it set out to establish its own business, and
the fact that it handled more sheep than any other
agents except two, and more cattle than any others
except three, suggests that it got the business at
astonishingly small cost. Many another co., taking
over a private concern, has paid several tens of
thousands for a smaller connection. ' Of course no-
thing can be said about its future. Almost every-
thing depends on its management. But it certainly
starts off exceedingly well.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Fruit Exchange Co -operative
Co. (Sydney) :
t T , . . To Re- Re-
June, I rofits. Dividends. serves, serves.
4994 -- £1564 10 per cent. = £250 £1314 £6,395
4992 aa1 10 ” ” 250 474 6,869
1903.. 902 10 ~ ~ 250 652 7,521
4927 10 ” ” 406 621 8,142
loak'' S 10 ” •> 500 886 9,028
9 - 1397 10 .. » 900 897 9,925
4997 " 4493 10 „ „ 500 998 10,923
mno” 49 » •> 500 1051 11,974
4999 " ] 77 8 12$ „ „ 625 1153 13,127
} 94 ?-- 4993 12$ „ „ 625 1283 14,410
1911.. 2318 20 „ ~ 1000 1318 15,728
This co. runs a wholesale market, and lets out stalls
at a daily or weekly rental; and in 1905 it provided
wRh new freehold premises for the purpose,
ibis little comparison shows the progress it has made
since then:—
t , 1905. 1911.
Debentures and other debt ..£15,182 £11,020
Liquid assets .. .. .. 9 3,046
Excess of liabilities .. .. £15,173 £7,974
So in six years the position, from this point of view,
has been improved to the extent of £7199 after the
payment of very substantial dividends. It is not
certain, however, that the co. is £7199 better off:
all depends upon whether the principal asset, the
freehold, has maintained its original value of
£29,680, at which it still stands in the books.
Market premises are subject to heavy depreciation,
and, though upkeep has been charged to ordinarv
workmg exes., nothing has been written off the item.
Also, the upkeep of the premises will increase with
age. But while that would mean a larger bite out
of future revenue, it has to be remembered that the
co. is making a big saving in interest. Still, while
depreciation is one probable caterpillar in the cab-
bage, municipal competition may be a bigger
trouble. The City Council has established large
markets, and, seeing that the council’s money costs
only 3% P-c., there must be something wrong if a
private concern can successfully compete with the
council and still charge enough to pay 20 p.c. divi-
dends.
* * * *
Central Zinc Co., Ltd.—This co. was
promoted in 1905 by the Sulphide Corporation,
mainly to handle the latter’s output of Broken Hill
zinc concentrates. The Corporation had raised just
about as much money as it could ; hence this new co.,
to which it guaranteed 5 p.c. p.a. for 10 years. The
capital was £150,000. Works were established in
Durham (Eng.), and for a couple of years the for-
eign experts made a mess of things, largely, it seems,
because they couldn’t handle the workmen available.
4n 1.908, when collapse looked highly probable, the
Sulphide Corporation recommended the co. to try
what J. C. Moulden, a young Australian manager
and metallurgist, could do. He was put in charge,
and things have been improving ever since. The
Profit and Loss balance and other debit items un-
represented by assets, totalled £43,881 in March.
1909. Up to that time the trading account showed
a loss of £28,030. The next year showed a trading
account profit of £2157; last year a profit of
£5701. The amount of capital unrepresented by
assets has been reduced from £43,881 to £38,689",
and the prospects are now said to be cheerful, though
it appears to be still extremely difficult in Freetrade
England to get satisfactory labor for this highlv-
technieal business of zinc-distilling. Last year’s
input was 6357 tons of zinc concentrates, and the
output 1967 tons of spelter (plus, of course, the
silver-lead residues) ; this current year, with six
furnaces available, the input is expected to be
9000 tons. The fifth and sixth furnaces contain 128
retorts each; the others 96. The co. fortunately
started with a very solid capital, so that, after pro-
viding for all liabilities, it still has about £12,000
in hand. The Sulphide Corporation has paid it
£22,763 by way of guaranteed dividend, and appar-
ently that total amount has been collected by this
co.’s shareholders.
The once boosted but more often busted
Iron, Steel and Metals Manufacturing Co. pushed a
circular out of its dark corner the other week; and
The Bulletin has been awaiting further develop-
ments, without hearing of any. Of course more
money was wanted: shareholders were cordially in-
vited to take up £1 shares for 15s. The bait this time


Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
2,4 & 6 Spring Street, Sydney.
absolute security
AND EFFICIENCY OF
TRUST MANAGEMENT
can only be obtained by the appointment of this
Company as TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS,
ADMINISTRATORS, &c.
Fixed and Reasonable Charges.
Booklet on application.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
“Will the undertaking pav?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories or
warehouses, very often solves the problem. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and Co., can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
ii g in Australia, or in course of erection, and will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the largest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors
can be procured from the same firm.*
* * * *
William Adams and Co., Ltd., of Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane and Perth, have now taken over the agency
of the Malleable Fittings Co. (Edward Le Bas and
Co., London), and keep large stocks at all branches.
All fittings are branded -j-G.F.-f, and are made in
4500 varieties and shapes, many of which are quite
impossible with ordinary iron or steel, and are no
higher in price. Malleable fittings may be flattened
on an anvil, but will not fracture, and are guaran-
teed to 3001 b. steam pressure. Used by N.S.W. rail-
ways and Public Works, Sydney and Melbourne
Water Boards, Sydney Gas Co., Fitzroy Mines,
Queensland, etc., etc. Write for particulars.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “Wilfley.” It is continuous, and
consists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged
in a tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The
drum is covered with a filter cloth supported on
grooves on the drum, which are connected by means
of holes to the interior to allow the liquid to be
withd 'wn. Through the trunnions at the ends of
the c am the vacuum pipe passes to the interior.
This pipe connects with the interior of the drum,
through which the liquid and air are withdrawn by
means of a vacuum pump. The filtered slime is re-
moved by a simple apparatus placed at or below the
level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly the
cake is removed, the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp
ready to receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the
sucking in of air, and consequent loss of vacuum
between the time the cake is removed and a fresh
one is forming. The residual liquid in the slime
cake is removed by distributing water over the sur-
face of the semi-dried cake. Owing to the fact that
the filter is circular in form, it will be seen that it
is continuous in operation, and has no complication
of valves to get out of order; furthermore, work is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manu-
facturing rights of this, filter.* [2
Extract from The Finance Chronicle, London
(15/11/1910). —“Colonial Mutual Life Office: We
have been favored with a copy of an exceedingly
business-like prospectus, just issued by this well-
managed Life Assurance Society, setting forth the
superior advantages of their Combined Life, Accident
and Sickness policies. On comparing the rates
charged in the tables shown in the prospectus, we
find that at most ages the premiums quoted are
exceedingly moderate. In fact, the rates are in
many instances about the same as the average pre-
miums charged by most offices for endowment life
insurance only. The Colonial Mutual Society is
well known for its low whole-life premium rates, but
this new combined policy, covering, as it does, those
extra risks at the exceedingly low rates quoted, only
requires to be known to be largely applied for.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE represents a powerful
combination of qualities—economy with durability.
All charges on Wood Pipe are lighter than on metal
pipe, and it is practically everlasting. Catalogue
may be had from the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
For driving bands, conveyor and elevator belting
of all kinds, Hopkins Bros, and Odium Prop., Ltd.,
Leicester Street, Carlton, Melbourne. Leading
machine belting manufacturers. With largest stocks
and factory in the Commonwealth. Invite enquiries.
Leather belting (Australian and English) all sizes
stocked. Genuine British Balata and Taylors’
Patent Faced Camel Hair Belting, all widths up to
18in. Conveyor belting a specialty for ore, sand,
metal, coal. Write for price-lists and discounts.
Agents wanted.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
» * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Rea veil Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarlcet, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. AVrite us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbeuberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
was the receipt of advice of “certain negotiations for
“(1) the acquisition of your co.’s patent rights; (2)
the acquisition of certain iron and steel works in
England; (3) the absorption of the English Co.” In
June the co. wired its chairman in London, and was
told in reply that “delay entirely caused hos-
tility experts in discouraging supporters,” but very
strong parties now moving to provide necessary funds
during next month.” Apparently the very strong
parties fell down the same crack that has swallowed
various other dukes and such-like, who were alleged
to have taken up the process. Anyway, two or three
next months have happened, and the process seems
to be just as far from adoption as ever. Curiously
enough, the hostility of experts seems to be still re-
garded as something to which shareholders are en-
titled to pin their faith.
* * * *
Customs Minister Tudor gave a mostly
non-committal answer to a deputation which
asked for an export duty on copper ores,
and a commission to inquire into the wisdom
of applying the same treatment to other ores. Ap-
parently the Minister didn’t know much about the
highly-teehnieal business beforehand, and he evi-
dently wasn’t much wiser after half a dozen speakers
had rattled through a few remarks to a gentleman in
a chair, with a watch in his hand, while another
deputation was waiting for him on the doormat.
“An export duty on ores,” he remarked, “might im-
mediately cause a deputation to wait upon me to
ask for an export duty on greasy wool,” etc. Many
a Government has done worse things than impose an
export duty on greasy wool. Still, the two cases are
not much more alike than an elephant and a straw
hat.
No nation can become great without metals; yet
many a nation has become great without having a
wool-washing plant on its premises. The Govern-
ment to which Tudor belongs is sound on the evils
of dumping as applied to imports; it sees that an
Australian manufacturer could be knocked out by
a foreign rival dumping a lot of goods in this coun-
try at under cost price—a thing which it would pay
him to do if he could thus kill the local industry and
secure the local market. But Tudor apparently
doesn’t see that the same thing can be done by the
foreign manufacturer outbidding the local manufac-
turer for his raw product, and thus leaving him
stranded ; he apparently doesn’t see that it would pay
the foreigner to do that, inasmuch as, once the
foreigner had the market to himself, he could get
the local raw goods at his own price. That this is
the caper is shown by the statement made bv the
Mount Kembla smelting and refinery people: “When
the Kembla refineries were started the American
refineries reduced their charges on Australian blister
copper by 30 p.c. They gave to Australian pro-
ducers lower rates than they gave to their own
people.” And it may be accepted as a foregone con-
clusion that, when the Australian works are knocked
out, up will go the charges again—which is the
dumping evil exactly. On the other hand, the
foreigner wouldn’t be fool enough to offer a special
price to get greasy wool, because he would know
that he could never recoup himself. You don’t have to
put in £200,000 worth of plant to start a wool-
scour, and, if the foreigner tried to get his money
back by offering less than a fair thing for washed
wool, the stuff would promptly go to the local scours,
which could be restarted at about three days’ notice.
* * * *
Those who shake their heads over the
prospects of the spelter market being permanently
maintained by the Zinc Convention, point to the
fact that there are now well over 100,000 tons of
rich zinc concentrates hung up at Broken Hill,
Port Pirie and intermediate stations. Delivery
has been taken of these, so the European zinc
smelters who are in the convention must be paying
out a heap of money in interest, etc. The yarn,
of course, is that the stuff isn’t sent on because
freights are so high. Perhaps so; but, even if that
is the explanation, it doesn’t alter the fact that this
current production is being kept off the market.
* * * *
McLean’s Mallee Hen, 35 miles from Wy-
along (N.S.W.), crushed 25 tons of picked stone for
6250 z 250 z. per ton. The show is being de-
veloped at the 90ft. level, and there is a fair quantity
of quartz at grass not considered good enough to
send such a long distance to the battery.
* * * *
The Brass Knocker, near Pambula
(N.S.W.), reports a big formation 20ft. between
walls. The bulk appears to be poor, but some rich
specimens have been got from a narrow quartz vein
which is going under foot. The strike was made in
deepening an old shaft from the 50ft. level. A good
deal of prospecting is being done in the locality,
which hitherto has proved itself very capricious.
TFestralia’s gold production for the first
nine months of 1911 amounted to 1,018,700 fine oz.,
which is exactly 76,0000 z. less than that for the
corresponding period in 1910, and over 178,0000 z.
short of the output for the same fraction of 1909.
As stated here, over and over again, the continued
shrinkage is primarily due to the depletion of some
mines, and the gradual fall in grade and returns of
other big producers. Unfortunately, the aggregate
of new mines unearthed is not equal to the number
that have gone under. Besides the usual aids to
prospectors and development by means of transport
and water facilities, the best way for the new
Labor Minister to set about giving the industry a
leg-up would he to (1) complete a geological sur-
vey linking up all centres where any gold has
hitherto been found, and (2) map out belts of new
country that might repay genuine prospecting. The
Bulletin is credibly informed that, if this were
done, plenty of money would be forthcoming to
back up such prospecting. The work, however, must
be done by competent geologists, and what the new
Government must realise is that it will have to pay
men of this sort handsomely. Existing agencies and
methods are wholly inadequate.
* * * *
Word comes from London via the West
that the Bullfinch is to be equipped with a- 20-head
battery and accessories, and that the milling grade
is somewhere near the half oz. This is almost the
first attempt that has been made, outside this page,
to paint the show in something approaching its true
colors.
* * * *
Side by side with the appeal of the
Gwalia Proprietary (W.A.), for an additional
£20,000, is placed the following managerial
whoop, which appeared in B. 17/3/’to: “Have traced
the new reef for 800 ft cut main reef at 800 ft.
carrying 25dwt. gold per ton...am forwarding a
box of specimens. . . It is impossible to state the
full extent of the gold shoot, but ore body will
continue, as it is a true fissure vein... I am satis-
fied that, no matter how many men we employ, the
mine will quickly repay outlay, once we start crush-
ing. Some beautiful ore, smothered with visible
gold, has been brought up from below.” Similar
tales were told previously and subsequently about the
show, after which the manager went to London.
The Bulletin said at the time that shareholders
and others had better wait for something more sub-
stantial than gilded words and a box of specimens,
and it solemnly advises them to keep on waiting.
Arrangements have been made to restore
animation at the Lady Edeline, Southern Cross
(W.A.). Some months back a co. was formed to
work this show; but, as funds gave out almost as
soon as a start was made, exemption had to be
obtained. This respite is now ended, and, supported
by a bit more cash, the co. is resuming where it
left off. The struggle, however, promises to be
brief, and to end the same as almost all concerns
which attempt to work mines on nothing or next to
» » ,
Great Finch (W.A.) has turned down its
option on the Eclipse, at Marvel Loch, and is now
on the lookout for something else.
* * * *
Managing director Pettigrew recommends
a five-head mill and trimmings for the Pine Hill
(W.A.), and backs up his recommendation with an
estimate of nine months’ ore in sight. But, in case
a five-head battery should not be enough, and for
other reasons, the Board had better get some inde-
pendent person to furnish a report.
Cumberland (W.A.) is now leaving the
worry of getting gold out of its Norseman derelict
to tributors, and is focussing its attention on the
Abbotshall option. Water lately brought about a
suspension of underground work in this property,
but the search for payable values at 100 ft. has since
been resumed. The co. still has over £6OOO in
hand, so that, while there’s cash, there’s hope.
Adelaide and other places are being but-
tonholed to find money for the flotation of the Lake
View lease at Payne’s Find. Reports on the prop-
erty speak of the existence of four gold-bearing reefs,
but, so far, there is nothing to justify the assump-
tion that any one of them is payable in depth. _
That virtue remains to be proved.
* * * *
Ida H. (W.A.) reports payable ore in a
bore at a depth of 822 ft. The find is in hitherto
untested ground, 700 ft. south of existing workings,
which makes the total length of proved reef over
2000 ft. But the average width is very small.
* * * *
Hidden Treasure at Cue (W.A.) still
scintillates. The last three weeks’ run gave a return
of nearly 1000 oz., which makes a total output of
about 16500 z. since £30,000 was paid for it by an
enterprising local syndicate. The balance of the
money is said to be in sight—or nearly that much.
* * * *
“Underlay”: “The Man from Tanami”
(B. 7/9/’ll) gives an amazing description of the
field. I pass over the fact that he refers to the
reefs as having the same strike and underlay, which
I’m afraid is impossible, and get on to his yarn
that there are no “jeweller’s shops.” The patches
are “jeweller’s shops”—when you can find them. I
can put my hand on a piece of Tanami “stone,”
4oz. weight, which was bought for £l6. That’s
pretty good proof that there are “specimens.” The
contributor also mentioned two bores, with plenty of
“cold, clear, fresh, sparkling water.” There are no
bores on Tanami, but there are two shafts down to
the stated 170 ft. These were sunk with the windlass,
so you may guess the water was not too strong.
The supply is only a soakage, but it is certainly
good. One is sunk near the reefs, and another three
miles away. “The Man’s” geology, also, is a trifle at
fault, when he says he believes the water has come
through the limestone. The nearest limestone is
six miles from the field. Finally, Tanami isn’t a
“desert,” as most people seem to think. It is very
fair cattle country in anything like a decent season,
and the seasons have been very decent ever since
Tanami was first worked.
* * * *
The little Charters Towers crowd that re-
volves around Miles’s office, where Joe Milliean is the
king-pin, looks like making another pot of money out
of Brilliant Deeps. Only a month ago Deeps were
worth (paids) about eighteenpence; now they are in
the neighborhood of 9s. When they were worth a
few pence a Towers man who mixes law and specula-
tion, and had been backing 20,000 of the shares
through the co.’s long struggle, got tired and wanted
to pass the property on to a neighboring co. But the
Milliean people hadn’t lost faith, and bought the
other man out at the price offered by the neighbor-
ing co. —which meant a few pence per share. They
won’t get dividends yet; but there are big hopes, and
the Towers sees in the incident another justification
for pegging away.
* * * *
It was through his brother Tom that
Walter Hall became interested in Mount Morgan.
Tom (T.S.) was at the time manager of the Q.N.
Bank at Rockhampton, and to him one of the three
Morgans, the prospectors, handed a couple of pieces
of stone. Tom Hall tested it, and he and W. K.
D’Arcy, a Rockhampton solicitor, drove out to the
show a few davs later. Pattison, a local grazier and
butcher, stood in with them, and they agreed to put
up the money for plant, etc., for a half share.
Walter Hall stood in with his brother. Next, the
three Morgans divided their half into five shares, and
Tom Hall bought one of the fifths (really tenths in
the mine). Fred Morgan bought his brother out for
£lO,OOO, and thus owned three-tenths of the mine.
The Halls, D’Arcy and Pattison next bought this
three-tenths for £62,000, but they sold one-tenth to
John Ferguson (local merchant and M.L.A.) for
£26,000. They, however, about squared things by
buying the last one-tenth from the Morgans for
£31,000. The Hall-D’Arcy-Pattison syndicate thus
owned nine-tenths and John Ferguson and his friends
one-tenth. Walter Hall had, however, given his old
coaching partners a chance, and John Ferguson had
bought up a few shares; hence when the co. was
formed with a million shares, the lot were cut up
this way—
Tom Hall 158,332
W. K. D'Arcy . . . . 358,334
W. Pattison . . . . 125,000
W. R. Hall .. • • 125,000
John Ferguson .. .. 116,667
O. O. Skarratt .. .. 58,334
W. A. Robertson
and John Wagner .. 58,333
Total .. • • 1,000,000
The dividends paid by the co. up to the end of last
month totalled £7 10s. 7d. per share, equal alto-
gether to £7,729,164.
* * * * .
The Vulcan (N.Q.) is showing lower-grade
ore in too many places; and on present appearances
the best that can be hoped for is that the recent
development at the 600 ft. level will provide sufficient
ore to merely sweeten up the returns for a year or
more.
* * * *
Gilmore (N.Q.) mine crushes at the
Gurrumbah mill, at Reid’s Creek. The mill is only
working one shift, for the tin shows in the vicinity
are mostly abandoned. The plant was put up seven
years since to treat ore from the Dalzells mine, which
turned out a deceptive surface show. Gilmore’s in-
tends to sink the shaft to 450 ft. The development
that revived the market recently was at the 160 ft.
level. The vein of ore is high grade, but generally
only a few inches wide, and a winze will have to be
put down to determine its value. * *
A big Westralian battery would lick up
the Central Red, White and Blue’s half-year’s out-
put of 9344 tons in a month and not strain a bolt.
But Bendigo won’t have that, for it likes its mining
sweetness long drawn out, so that it may have time
to poke down from one saddle to another. Even
Catherine Reef, with its big formations, is satisfied
with 15,000 tons a half-year, and the new battery
and plant the Central Blue is putting in won’t ex-
ceed those figures by much. To find cash for this
plant and the extra leases £9OOO will have to be
got The prudence of the Board in not cutting up
all the profits enables it to draw on the reserve for
most of that sum without checking the divs. As
the mine has what manager Kingsley cautiously
calls large bodies of payable stone to stope, it is
still in the fairway of the market. Last half-year s
milling campaign averaged over an oz. per ton, the
co getting £42,494 for its gold. Expenses of
every sort took as much as 20s. per ton; but, then,
1608 ft. of sinking and driving was paid for. With
the new plant costs ought to come down shillings.
A slide has disturbed the formation south in the
bottom level, but north good stone is exposed,
though it is not expected that the grade will be as
high as that of the quartz broken at 318 ft. The
little mine has yielded £67,000 in divs. on £1593
of cash capital, and has saved Bendigo from partial
paralysis by giving an interest in side-line work.
The vacuum filter on the Magdala-cum-
Moonlight slimes heap at Stawell (Vic.), is moving
again, after the installation of several improvements
calculated to decrease costs and increase extraction.
The process in vogue is an interesting innovation
in Victorian cyanide practice. Briefly, the system
adopted is to sluice the slimes from the face by
means of a high-pressure jet of cyanide solution. After
passing through two vortex mixers, the pulp is sent
through a tube mill, to reduce the sand and mineral
and clean the gold, after which it runs into the agita-
tion vats, and from, there into vacuum filter vats. The
plant represents about £lO,OOO of Sorth Aus. and Wes-
tralian capital, and those connected with it deserve
success, if only for applying modern machinery and
up-to-date methods to the ore of a field which, in
common with Victorian fields generally, is much
given to regarding any collection of antediluvian
bric-h-brac as an up-to-date plant.
* * * *
Jimmy Lewis, of the Anchor mine (Tas.),
keeps his costs as diminutive as he is himself. Last
12 months he punched through 103,000 tons, and
wasn’t content because he spent 2s. 7id. per ton to
get out his tin. His margin of profit is narrow
enough to frighten anyone but an M.0.E., for the
ore only runs 2.381 b. of metallic tin per ton —3s. 9d.
cash, taking the metal at £lBO. A drop of £3O a
ton would hit Lewis like a blizzard on the Blue
Tier. And because he knows that a fall to £l5O
is not impossible, he yanked the old Australian mine
in to help up the average. If he had more cash he
might rake in some of Frank Gee Duff s Blue Tier
leases, since the Mt. Lyell has turned them up for
ever. J. Bull has forked out £25,000 of -deben-
tures for the Anchor apart from paid-up capital,
and, in view of that load, Lewis sadly needs a good
patch, either in or out of the Anchor holding. His
latest feat was to drag £5OOO out of the Tasmanian
Treasury to keep his mine going and his staff to-
gether. One who could achieve that in ’Coota-land
has done well with his sft. lin.
* * * *
Radium Hill Co., whose show is near
Olary (S.A.), intends to put up radium-extraction
works on the Parramatta (N.S.W.). Kadcliffe, of
the Bairnsdale School of Mines (Vic.\ gives an en-
couraging report on the strength of the experi-
mental treatment of 31 tons of crude ore. ’She
most definite statement is that radium bromide
can be extracted successfully, and if the Parramatta
works can extract a gram (15.43 grains) of radium
bromide in a year and obtain the astonishingly high
price of £15,000 per gram, everybody concerned
should be happy. There are at present about 10
grams (154 grains) of radium in the whole world,
and,, it is only reasonable to suppose that even a
moderate increase in supply will reduce the price.
There are 5600 tons of uranium ore developed at
Radium Hill, and so far only a fragment of this lot
has been treated. No definite statement is made as
to the percentage of uranium oxide present, but as
5600 t0n5=12,544,0001b., and the estimated quan-
tity of uranium oxide is 162,4001 b., there appears to
be lib. of uranium oxide to 771 b. of ore.
The convict industry in New Caledonia is
in a dull way now, and the colonists have been
driven to pay more attention to local resources. Not
too soon, either. With the stoppage of deportation
the outlook was getting gloomier and gloomier; for
even convicts die and leave off wanting victuals and
other attention.
Nickel ore production may now be said to almost
keep New Caledonia on the map. Some say that, had
convicts not been introduced, New Caledonia would
to-day have controlled the nickel markets of the
world. Others say, had convicts not been intro-
duced, nickel would not have been discovered (or at
least worked) at all. Either may be right. While
the convict business boomed, the industries were
practically neglected. Gradually the convict became
a libere, and, ere long, there was' a lot of him. He
went into the hills, which means he went every-
where, for New Caledonia is all hills. He dis-
covered the nickel, the cobalt, the chrome, and has
since been allowed to work the discoveries. But
ownership is in larger hands. Meanwhile, the
Canadian people became busy upon their nickel and
cobalt deposits. Prison labor was not one of their
cards, and to-day New Caledonia, with all its won-
derful resources, is “allowed to produce” so much
nickel ore per annum, and no more. It is allowed to
produce no cobalt at all. Such is the foreign con-
trol. In chrome it holds and exports its own. At
Tiebaghi is what is stated to be the biggest chrome
mine in the world. The product is of very high
quality. The mine is managed by an Englishman,
T. R. Archbold, who, on past records, will not dis-
grace his country nor his profession.
Probably no country in the world has been more
intensely prospected than New Caledonia. The
liberes from lie Nou were glad to get away into
those hills; it was the next best thing possible to a
return to France. Consequently, one sees practically
hundreds of miles of close prospecting, and, what is
of more importance, hundreds of miles of open-cut
working. New Caledonia is literally scarred with
the marks of the miner’s pick—but only on the sur-
face. Until recently the island shipped all its nickel
ore to Europe for treatment. Its copper ore it sent
to Australia. By this practice the country has
gradually been skinned of all its rich ores, and the
poorer stuff was left in the ground. The French
Government decided that, in the interests of the
country, this should be stopped—and therefrom Aus-
tralia 'might take a lesson. Without any ceremony
an export duty on all ores was at once introduced.
In addition, as the export duty was not a heavy
one, the French Government offered a bonus of a
free grant of ground for the works, free fresh-water
rights, remission of harbor dues, etc., to the company
which would first produce nickel matte. The Gov-
ernment achieved its object. Smelting works were
built at Noumea, and are now running successfully.
Additional smelting works are being pushed on with
at Thio, and a copper furnace has been running
for some time at Dilah, which no longer exports ore
to Australia. The export of nickel ore still goes
on, but to a less extent. Ore which used to be sent
to Belgium for treatment is now smelted locally,
and ore which hitherto was left in the ground is
now converted into a marketable product. _ New
Caledonia imposed its export duty and bonus just m
time. Had it been left a few years longer, the
mineral resources of the island would have been
wholly under foreign control. The French people
saw their position; they acted, and, as a result, to-
day they have a say in the nickel markets of the
world It is not a predominant say, certainly, but
it is a spoke, and that is better than the nothing
which would otherwise have been the island’s lot.
French mining engineers in New Caledonia should
know all that there is to be known concerning aerial
tramways. The country is so mountainous that a
railway agitation is unknown. Aerial transporters
do the work, and do it very effectively and economi-
cally. Le Nickel had hard luck with the transporter
which it built out into the sea at Thio. A hurri-
cane wrecked a vessel that had just finished loading
at the transporter, and, in turn, the sailing ship
wrecked the transporter.
* * * *
Following hard on the heels of the sale
and proposed partition of the V.D.L. Co.’s mammoth
estate (admittedly due to the Federal land-tax),
comes the offer of the Emu Bay and Bischoff Rail-
way Co. to sell its line to the Tasmanian Govern-
ment for £232,000 —half cash, half in 34 p.c. in-
scribed stock. The price is quite high enough, but
as the railway cuts the State system in two, and
collects tribute on all the freight between the mining
fields of the West Coast and the port of Burnie, the
Government will have to buy sooner or later, or con-
tinue to lose heavily on the State lines. So, in all
probability, Private Enterprise will get what it de-
mands, or thereabouts.


I
i
»
Estab
1818
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London, E.C.
R°B«R
Til:
I'm as bad as an old
woman fo-ah my cup of tea —
1 simply love it 1 They say a
fello’ who’s fond of tea is
a johnnie, but that’s better
than being a fello’ who gets
squiffy he’s a bally idiot,
chucks his money away, and
gets nothing at all fo-ah it,
only a splitting head
But look he-ah, there are teas
and teas —if you want to
thoroughly enjoy a cup of tea
you get Ro-bah—No. 1 Grade —
by jove ! it’s good tea! —pour
it out bef-oah it has had time to
draw too long—and it’s simply
perfect, don’t-cher-know!
The Johnnie.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October IG, 1911.
My Dear Arini.—
From three different sources comes the fol-
lowing vice-regal crumb, which may have a
grain of fact in its fancy trimming. I’ve
lopped off the beginning and end, and two-
tlurds of the middle, and send you what’s left.
At the recent spring weeping, it is alleged
that the affable Gee-Gee sent one of his British
warriors in pursuit or an attractive-looking
damsel believed to have been a guest at a
recent Government House leap. Ilis Ex.
first investigated her name. The Ancient
Briton, not to be bowled out in a kan-
garoo chase as the possessor of a de-
cayed memory, said (or is alleged to have
said) : “Oh, that's Miss G—.” “Present her,”
says his Ex. They surrounded the beauty on
the lawn, but she didn’t recognise either the
G. or his warrior. “I think you were
at a dance at my house the other evening,”
says liis Ex. “I don't know you,” says the
ladv with an icy manner. “Oh, but I’m sure
.you were there —you are Miss G —.” “Par-
don me—l really have not the pleasure of
your acquaintance,” or something similar
was the freezing reply. It was a total
stranger who had never been to G. House in
her life. The Gee-Gee and his lighting man
retired in good order.
“Arethusa,” who is inclined to be saucy, fires
off a belated popgun at the social spikes that
fenced off the new Denman Excellencies dur-
ing the Pill and Amputation Party’s recent
sprint through turkey, Italian icecreams
and other excitements in this village. She
says: “At the President’s ball, as at all other
functions, the only persons allowed near the
Sacred Presence of Lord and Lady Denman
were those approved of by the Yerney clan.
One eminent professional man is said to
have insisted on his wife crossing the chalk
line, and Lady Denman was then reluctantly
informed that the eminent one’s wife was
‘quite a nice person.’ But the chalk line
isn’t always passed so easily. When his Ex.,
at the ball supper, invited a lady of some im-
portance to present to him the wife of one of
Sydney’s leading surgeons, the presentation,
it is said, didn’t come off. The frozen sil-
houette person is blamed for this.”
A garbled story has floated in re three of
Lord penman's large men-of-war, who fol-
low his Ex. officially through the shoals,
breakers and jagged rocks of “Society”
scraps. The noble three, having lost some
section of their hearts to one race-week
beauty, set out (also in sections) in pursuit
of a pale pink frock and crimson roses
(the same having been indexed for their
assistance by a lady friend), and, after a
long and exciting quest, suddenly met each
other and the pink frock, which contained
the wrong lady. Something seems to have
dropped out of the middle of this story, but
I send you the edge.
Though he was a millionaire multiplied
by three or four, Society, which spells itself
with a big S, won’t greatly miss the late
Walter Bussell Hall. The childless old
money-spinner had a very few friends, and
he treated them well; but he could get no
joy out of entertaining mobs, so he never
entertained them. They called him mean,
yet in many respects he wasn’t. He had a
bigger say in the Mount Morgan mine, of
many millions, than anybody else, and min-
ing men tell you that it is the best-paid ser-
vice of the kind in Australia. One of the
adjuncts of this Mount Morgan is Carlton
House, a sort of well-kept club, maintained
for the greater comfort of directors and
“distinguished visitors” to the mine; and it
was Walter Hall’s habit, whenever he occu-
pied Carlton House, to give “the boys” a
good _ time. “The boys” were not the local
bigwigs, but mine officers of all grades.
And, without exception, those officers are
Australian. In that respect, the big con-
cern with which the dead man was connected
is almost unique. If it wants some in-
tricate thing done, and there isn’t a man
in Australia to do it offhand, Mount
Morgan says : “Well, we’ll wait till he grows,
and, meantime, he can have a few hundred
pounds of ours to grow on.”
H. P. Airey, formerly Colonel in the
N.S.W. Ancient Armory Department, has
hung up his dinted battle-axe for good. In
other words, lie is dead, somewhere in the
Transvaal. The late Colonel Airey, with
only one arm to his credit —I fancy he lost
the other in a Burmese scrap—was a dash-
ing horseman, and the chief instrument of
war in promoting, or heading up, the now
defunct “A” Battery. That organisation
was pushed off the earth in a sudden spasm
of retrenchment. After the S’African
squabble, the Airey family migrated to the
Transvaal, and went on the veldt with agri-
cultural implements, but I think the imple-
ments were better than the veldt, and the
African farm was a great deal worse than
the new African farmer.
Concerning a recent party at Baumann’s,,
given by merchant William Yinson Lee and
his Chinese wife, it’s curious to note how
many and varied are the roots of the family
tree in the land of the dragon and fan. Yin-
son Lee, born in Australia, has only spent
nine years out of it, in the home of the tea
leaf. He is officially known in those parts
as Li Wai Lam. He is a Highland cousin,
or something less remote, of the late Li
Hung Chang, and he cut his teeth as ward
of a gentleman of Hongkong, whose name,
Wei Yuk, was heavily defended by the titles
Hon., C.M.G., and M.L.C. Merchant Lee
did an exploration sprint to the Paracel
Islands with Admiral Li, but is otherwise
content to navigate the Milson’s Point tram
service. He married a Honolulu merchant's
daughter in 1905, and intends to live happy
ever after.
Mr. Richard Brasch has just scaled my
eyrie to say he’s engaged to the girl of his
heart, and her name is Miss Thelma Trador,
whose father was formerly Postmaster in
his Majesty’s stamp and swear department,
Maitland.
The Littlejohn evening party, at the Rose
Bay Golf House, the other night, was chiefly
remarkable for its floral outbreak in salmon-
pink and crimson, and the superior quality
of the band music. It was one of those
dark, wet nights that calendars and
municipal councils describe as “moonlight”
nights when there is something in the
heavens like a brownish phantom at the
back of a horn lantern, and the belated
traveller in remote suburbs explores his
nearest street, gutter or drain-pipe with the
light of a wax vesta. “The Blue Danube,”
“Carmen” extracts, and other joyous sounds,
were caged into the Golf House with a high
wall of tarpaulin, and the Golf Club gas-
meter took the place of the moon.
The engagement of Mr. Neil McEacliarn,
only son of the wealthy shipping knight Mal-
colm of this side, to Miss Marie Raphael
(London) is one of the gilded alliances that
eventually keep the wolf from the step with
a quarter of a million of money. Knight
Malcolm left coffers heavily ballasted with
gold when he crossed the bar, and made his
tair-liaired dame a widow. Henry Raphael,
the girl’s late grandfather, is mentioned as
having been one of the Thames encamp-
ments richest financiers,” and probably
lent, his aid at more than two per cent.,
with a neat margin for profit. The bride-
elect is likely to add something considerable
to the McEacharn money vaults, and any fear
of this particular capitalist being taxed off
the business map is a remoter contingency
than the next look-in of Halley’s comet.
Major George Wynne, surrounded by a
warlike display of brass band and smart-
looking Coronating cadets, marched up
George-street on Saturday morning, very
brown and brisk, with no outward sign of
wasting away in consequence of strained re-
marks on this, that and the other torn
tatter of red tape.
In spite of black-edged rumors to the con-
trary, the Durbar diamond display seems
t°. be a fixture that can be backed to tran-
spire at an early date. Mr. and Mrs. J. O.
. air fax are, therefore, amongst many other
inhabitants of this township, packing’ up for
“ e Indian fray; and the lady’s mother,
Mrs. Hixson, is also getting her bonnet-
box fatted up for the great elephant spree.
Last year the (then) newly-fledged Soci-
ety ot Women Painters gave its first show
somewhere in the region of York-street’s
sottgoods selection. It was a poor show,
with a few gold specks amid the mullock of
its drab mediocrity. Some of the mediocrity
was more than drab, and wanted renovating
with an axe. A large following of friends,
enemies and relatives, however, conspired
together and encouraged the infant society
to go on hanging itself. But if the 1910
effort started in the cellar, the 1911 show has
climbed up several flights of stairs, and bears
no outward resemblance to its shabby ances-
tor. The ordinary traveller takes the lift to
the R.A.S. rooms (76 Pitt-street).
Artist Florence Rodway throws a streak
or genius into her batch of pictures in this
display of women painters’ brush work.
Hie. Japanese Screen” is a weird com-
bination of a small Spanish face and a
heathen screen, so cleverly treated that it
would make the name of an unknown
painter; but Florence has been doing big
things for some time, and her name is
known already.
The recent sitting-down of artist Ethel
Stephens in Etaples and other foreign paint-
ing places, has lifted her work right up
aloft out of the still-life ruck of a few years
back. A group of pictures, including the
‘Steepest Street in Montreuil,” is worthy of
a woman who is dashing forward with easel
and brush. The red roofs of Montreuil dangle
near Edith Cusack’s prime lambs, and are
only a few frames away from Amy Yale’s
inflammatory red bricks and blazing green
shutters.
Bessie Pring modestly asks only five
guineas for “Nature’s Gilding,” though the
timber alone—a well-grown herd of poplars,
just losing their summer skirts in frost-
bitten shades of russet and red—is worth
more than that, but not for the woodheap.
Gladys Owen’s clever “Vallambrosa” is
hung in the odor of sanctity, being almost
adjacent to Winnie Elliot’s plunge in church
architecture with a “Timber Yard” (North
Sydney) to keep the building boom to the
fore. Nell Rodd’s series of illustrations
(water colors) of the evergreen fairy tale,
Snowdrop,” are full of youth, imagination,
good drawing and charming color. Violet
Teague’s “Artemis in the Drawing Room” is
overcrowded with a large, wooden-looking
beauty in fashionable evening undress. The
lady occupies a strongly fortified position
between a table and some potted magnolias,
and is snatching 40 winks with both hands.
£lO5 r^Ce ’ nc^u< li n S a handsome frame, is
The yachting season opened with a large
wind ;and a garden party at Kirribilli, in
the R.S.Y. squadron’s club grounds. These
grounds slope gently—with a big drop in the
middle—to the water’s edge, and any per-
son who feels that he prefers drowning to
garden-partying, can slip off the lower lawn
without annoying the water police. Lady
Denman, one gentleman help. Lady King-
Hall, with a Cocked Hat-in-waiting, Mr.
Alfred Milson, who is something of import-
ance amongst white wings, Mrs. Alfred Mil-
son —indefatigable in a good cause —and a
generous consignment of “Society” arms,
legs, etc (the wind rather insisted on the
presence of the legs), in a top-dressing of
spring chiffons, were bidden to the land and
water party by Mr. James and Mrs. Fairfax.
Bird Day preened its plumage in N.S.W.,
for the first time, on October 11. The as-
tounded soarrow was then hand-fed with
fragments from school lunch-bags, and kin-
dergarten exercises included vows of total
abstinence from the delirious joy of bird-
nesting. willy-wagtailing and similar juven-
ile crimes. The infant mind lias been
tuned up to see feathers in a new form, and
to _ observe the Australian warbler, or mere
chirruper or whistler, as not necessarily
contraband of war. Perhaps some small,
reformed pirate, who acquired bird-lore, in
song, from Miss Simpson, at Blackfriars
Kindergarten or the Tech. College, may be
a budding Gould or an immature Audubon.
Sterne’s starling and Poe’s raven, like
Shelley’s skylark, are immortals, and the
Australian kookaburra is now waiting for
hit; poetic perch amongst the gods. Also, the
emu is looking for an allotment on the
ground floor of immortality. In the mean-
time, BGd Day in N.S.W. has robbed even
mgeon-pie of its flavor.
Prof. MacCallum’s recent lecture on
Elizabeth Barrett Browning, to the Sydney
Lm.’s blue-stocking brigade, put a spark of
new life into the Browning ashes. Eliza-
HH I Barrett, who “wrote of Virtue with a
V, ate and drank Greek, read Homer in
the original, was weary of life at 39, lived
on air-cushions, etc., and digested Hebrew
in the raw, “from Genesis to Malachi,” was,
in spite of her genius, one of the most unex-
pected objects of honey-sweet love trills from
a male songster that judicious editors have
ever potted for posterity.
The Girls’ Realm Guild chased its last
farthing into an audited account the other
evening, and served up the same to Lady
Denman behind a strong encampment of
arum lilies in the King’s Hall. Seaforth
Highlander Captain Stewart Richardson was
the Feather Duster in attendance on her
Ex., but luckily left his great, plumed toque
at home, tied up in moth balls, or similar
fortification against the wild animals that
chew up this kind of foliage.
Organising sec. Grace Burrows has a
trick of business habit that boils down an
annual meeting into mere tabloids. At
five past 9. the last Trust Fund penny had
been laid in the dust. Lady Denman’s
wheels had been ordered for a later hour, so
the Highland raider had to snare cab-rank
cattle, and her Ex. bounded home in a han-
som., The roof _of the A.D.C. fconveyance
didn’t need taking down for repairs, the
ostrich-farm headgear (already mentioned)
having absented itself from the Girls’ Guild
corroboree.
The Sydney Jumble depot, started just for
love by two girls amongst the Surry Hills
—take the Crown-street tram—gathers up
a vast number of fat sacks full of the clothes
the prosperous girl is tired of. The damsel
of means, who belongs to the Girls’ Realm,
is not only pleased to contribute her cash,
half-worn garments, etc., to the Jumble
sales, but purloins her father’s boots (when
she thinks he’s worn them long enough),
demands her brother’s shirts, collars, socks,
etc., and doesn’t leave him a stud to call his
own if she can get hold of it.
The enthusiasts who stand for hours, as
saleswomen, at the Surry Hills depot (again
for love), retail these clothes at nominal
prices. An undertaker recently drove his
Stygian four-horse chaise up to this place of
roaring business, and, for sixpence, bought a
serious-looking top-hat. (Some girl had ob-
viously torn this garment from her parent’s
garden-party millinery.) The Jumble depbt,
which “always has a sale,” is now putting
on considerable frill, for, in spite of its
alarming sacrifices, it cleared £l5 out of
last year’s clothes’ bags. This sum went
into the balance with which the Girls’ Realm
is prepared to face 1912, on behalf of dis-
tressed damsels.
“Carmen” was responsible for the arrival,
at Her Majesty’s, of the inmates of both
Government Houses, the other night; and
they were ushered in to their boxes by a
double-barrelled blare of “God oave.” The
Denmans filled two boxes with their
presence and their staff. The cheerful look-
ing Gee-Gee was heavily bandaged with his
large blue sash of state. Lady Denman,
clothed in raven hue, had left her diamond
mine under lock and key, and only flashed a
pair of jewelled wings on her fair locks.
The sweet chirrup of soprano Jeanne
Wayda as Tosca is hard pressed for breath-
ing time when Scarpia-Scandiani sets his
red heels clicking across the supper room in
the second act of “La Tosca.” In act one,
Polish Wayda puts on a grey gown—some-
thing alluring in a soft shimmer, flings a
cerise scarf, a mere cloud of glory, across
her pretty shoulders, and puts her corn-
colored hair into the bonnet —the one which
explains in its appearance how it came about
that this form of headgear was once con-
sidered the last word in fascination. Its
shell is cottage bonnet. Its trimmings are
in marble palace, or old Versailles, or Vienna
court fashion, and they flaunt a distracting
flutter of white plumes that go to the head
of Cavaradossi McCormack, and put him off
his painting. This sweet bonnet is put to
bed before the supper sceae, and Wayda
gives Scarpia his dessert —on the blade of a
knife —in a white satin gown with a frosty
white glitter in its chest measurement. Scar-
pia dies to delightful music, in great agony.
In a first-night audience, at “Tosca,” Dr.
Stewart McKay was in his usual box.
Mr. J. S. Brunton was in his accustomed
patch, a yard or so away from the Angelini
baton. Mrs. Fred Orr showed a trail of
white blossom in her well-groomed locks, a
stall or two behind, and Mrs. Jamieson and
Mrs. Macdonald —also stalled —exploited
the egret’s tail. One lady’s osprey dropped
down dead on top of her head, while the
other lady’s black tail stood straight up on
end. Melba, not looking quite so well as on
the Sabbath morn when she hopped off the
southern express, was in the manager’s box.
In this box, Chamberlain Nevill, the pretty
profile of fair-haired Lady Barttelot, and
the early Roman matron deportment of Jus-
tice Geoi'ge Bowen Simpson’s dame, came
between the side seats and the dead body of
McCormack in the final tragedy. Mr. and
Mrs. Will McDonald were in their usual
first-night perch—front seats in the dress
circle.
Mrs. Anthony Hordern and Mrs. Taylor-
Young, incurable first-nighters, are also
faithful to the rather snubbed D.C. At Her
Majesty’s, the D.C. and the front rows of the
gallery are as superior to the stalls for oper-
atic purposes, as the eastern gallery of the
Town hall is better than the dreary obses-
sion of front seats at any big orchestral con-
cert. So the music-loving Shepherd Laid-
leys—father, mother and pretty black-eved
daughter—have stuck to their first-night
allotment in the D.C. right through the
present flutter of singing birds.
Ola Humphrey and her Egyptian prince
have parted hurriedly, for the same fierce
reason that rages round so many matri-
monial quarrels—“incompatibility of tem-
per.” Even pale sienna is several shades too
dark to run in double harness with white,
and the gentleman from Cairo, recently
billed as “cousin to the Khedive,” may toddle
back to the Nile as the cousin of no one in
particular, without any serious damage to
the scenery.
. When tenor John McCormack gets off
his singing perch, he’s a confirmed cricketer
and scatters a hurried ball over Rushcutter’s
Bay oval, or some other handy grass-plot,
with Charlie Macartney and Victor
Trumper. McCormack is suspected of har-
boring a secret notion that he is teaching
Trumper how to dodge duck-eggs.
The return of the crinoline has been
threatened for some months, and the Cold
Land press is now wiping its inky brow in
some alarm in consequence, for the tube
skirt was the only good fit for the tube train
in which a percentage of Londoners bore
their way to business. The old globular
offender tried to sneak in as “La Hoop,” but
the male critic ran it to earth in Bond-street
in one glance, and shrieked for help to the
venerable Lady Dorothy Nevill, who had
once worn this wild beast, and knew its
tricks, signs and earmarks. Lady Dorothy
waves the crinoline to perdition as “ridi-
culous.”
May you remain unhooped for the term of
your natural life, my dear Arini.
VANDORIAN.


V, .t '.:•••'
-n-M
'rJmtf&J m : t-v ;v: ; v
r / -‘>
iT'-Cy* -r
«
fw ?
sssMiis?
K
Vi-
ilife
,-;7.
MW
) i
mm
is
K
jfjtill
< i
/>
&
■i (• t \
V
5%i
..
Si
Sfij
fm
i ®
if
M
its
1
‘i*“ .t?
2 :/
...r, "-3T-;
i '•'■ rvr
Mi $
wS
i v t
N.
4 M/7
/
'M
l{f
m
t'j&i
a
•<
hm
m
nvmfh
f§ / i r -ifU&&
;■,•/?; v i'> . r “''/ik?|
/V •v / i ■ .-J-Kerf
is® S
mss&
/asvs
%s
YmM
#1
■ i
fkjfrmk
mm
SiS
w
o.s
:^i
■V/
n
/ |p|
; |B§Ss
4 i -l,* ‘df $
i l «
p i
:■ :J? •■ S < if ’
; :|4^ > : 2j | • fi ||^
JSr
I Sf s %'i Ss& v f &4- r 'YY^M
r y i:§L« ; - 'r Jbs#
15Mr; j •• f^r
u„v
NMf
r- jc >',•;, ■ s?9SJ>
t
► i
Ss4r!
i?.\ '»
A
e S’ 5^5
mn \ II
; f «vc
I »1
I’iHvl
I#
l: -
gairt {
4
£*<#s
immm
! .||l lIUI i! H'MMsm
m
§gH
/. i.f/' . il i ;'S liiS l-iits
m
l M-HNN
S
il
;i:>^
sak-p:
- 1
II
mm
■■■£3
-mm
mm
m
t^sisa
m
m
MiliiiS
sfta
TcT::
?X?
%2“
W'
il
*
•£<^.>'ivV
mM
'm&MhiWs£M&
m
■ - s
r:'J-; > - \v-7
. * <«*&&&&
mm:'.
m
■-■ffl
•*‘.«7
mm
fesS:
i^Hi
■
.V-:.
,v. w
;tN?
s
»**•&!
-
S rag
rJ*iX
*****
COBRA, 15he Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Down the hall goes
Skating too.
Not a scratch
He leaves behind
That a microscope
Could find.
Smiling always—
Thin and tall,
Swiftly up and down
The hall.
Of his skates
He’s very fond,
And the safe old
Polish Pond.


The recent weather probably gave you something
to remember in the way of a cough or cold on the
lungs. You are not the only one. Dozens of people
are in the same position, but they are not dreading
it with Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the house.
Nothing that we could think of will give you the re-
lief that Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy gives. One
bottle will cure you of the worst cough you ever
had.*
FIT
DUNLORS
IT PAYS!
You alwdyj gef a
! Dig mileage
when yourCdr
bohod with v
thejse
Reliable at
Durable
Tyreo. si
you get
Satisfaction
Obtainable all Garaoe^
BRITISH
BEST.
Always SP«e«fy
DUNLOP
m
LL
DUNLOP
Tennis
Balls
FOR
QUALITY & PRICE
They Play better
and wear longer
than any other BalL
TRY THEM!
ALL SPORTS DEPOTS
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
All States and N.Z.
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
Outwear all Others.
Unequalled for COMFORT
QUALITY and PRICE
VARIOUS SHAPES.
ALL BOOT SHOPS.
M M M
ACCEPT ONLY
•DUNLOP" BRANDS.
M M M
"dUNLOP RUBBER CO., All Slate. & NZ.
m
m
DUNLOP
TYRES
OUTWEAR
ALL OTHERS
Unequalled for
QUALITY
and PRICE.
m a
BEWARE OP
IMITATIONS.
a a
DUNLOP RUBBER CO , All Stales 4 W.I.
\\\
«
DUNLOPKELLY
SOLID RUBBER -
VEHICLE
(TYRES
absorb all
noise and
vibration,
double the
tile ol your
vehicle, and
last lor
years. Fit-
ted from
£5 and
upwards.
P-lce Ll't Posted
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States I t.Z
u\
m ■■■!
< • i
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 16, 1911.
My Dear Tarrie, —
The string of motors that brought the
guests to the Brett-Young wedding festivi-
ties, on Thursday, was long enough to con-
siderably hamper the ordinary traffic outside
Menzies’. The marrying was got through at
Cairns Memorial Church ; but the subsequent
reception occupied several hours at the tall
hotel, the lounge of which was decorated
with wedding bells, pink ribbons and roses.
The leading people sat alongside a crosswise
table on the platform behind the wedding
cake. Speeches were numerous, and several
women singers, amongst whom was Maggie
Stirling, poured out song for the refresh-
ment of the guests, who ted and listened at
small tables. The bridesmaids, in pink and
white, looked like cherry trees in blossom;
and the fair bride scored a heap of points
with her simple, well-cut dress and tulle mob
cap and veil. Mr. and Mrs.. Young took a
regretful farewell of their last daughter, the
others, with their respective husbands, being
present as guests. Dr. Brett had brother
medico Tucker to best-man him, and at
least 50 other medicine men came along to
drink his health, and remark that he was a
jollv good sawbones. The bride went away
in smart grey apparel, and under a well-
feathered hat; but she smuggled on a crush
hat and a coat on the way down to the sta-
tion, so that the crowd at the Sydney ex-
press might give their attention to somone
else. The busy bridegroom just managed to
see his patients, and get away from the last
case in time to get to church.
The long list of recent Toorak marryings
has been further lengthened by the wedding
of Herbert Westcott, of Westralia, and Jessie
McCallum, daugnter of Major McCallum.
The Major spent his days of peace in gar-
nering oil from the eucalyptus near Dim-
boola. He now lives close to Melbourne,
when he is not busy with horses at Wilson’s
Promontory.
The fair young widow Butler, whose
mourning only serves to make her more at-
tractive, is recovering from her most
recent motor accident, in time to get her
Cup frocks. Her casualty record so far is
three broken ribs and one ditto arm, with
an encore fracture of the same limb.
The eldest of the John Grice gii-leens
nearly completed a tragedy in high life last
week, by tripping during an exciting game
of tennis. She fell on the asphalt court,
with such force that she sustained slight
concussion, and had to be put to bed. The
patient is now convalescing at the family
mansion.
Mrs. Frankie Oliver Stuart Murray is
giving a dance at the St. Kilda Town Hall,
on Oaks Night. There are two Mrs. Stew-
art Murrays in society—as all the world of
Melbourne doesn’t know. One. Mrs.
Frankie Oliver, lives at South Yarra, and is
unrelated to tbe dance hostess, who dwells
at Sandi-ingham (where the golfer smites
and pursues, the small white globule). Mrs.
Frankie Oliver, etc., is a relative of the
Western District Robertsons. Lorpa Rob-
ertson colls her aunt.
In December or January next, the Lan-
dale-Clarke wedding will come to pass at
Sunbury. The marriage feast is to be
spread in the ancestral halls of Ruperts-
wood, which is now really Russel’s Wood,
the Clarke of that name having purchased
the family mansion from his baronet brother.
The Grey-Egerton-Clarke-Cumming lady
has cancelled her proposed trip to Australia,
but the youngest daughter, it seems, is to
make her debut in her native land, under
the wings of Sister Phyllis • Power and
Grandmamma Cumming. Sister Phyllis has
booked Steeplechase Sunday for her turn as
hostess.
The Victorian Artists’ management is
sticking to the more accessible, but less pic-
turesque, Athenaeum Hall for this year’s
show, in preference to the rooms on Eastern
Hill. The old haunt, besides two good rooms,
had odd lengths of corridor and stair land-
ings, where you could loiter and yarn cosily
with friends and be out of the picture-
gazer’s way. The Athenaeum merely offers
four walls. The men on the hanging com-
mittee who had “big” pictures have got good
positions; but there is considerable wailing
from other exhibitors. This hanging com-
mittee has certainly earned a vote of censure
by putting all the miniatures within a foot
of the platform surface. Enthusiasts could
examine them well by going down on then-
hands and knees, or lying flat on their
chests; but, somehow, people dislike doing
either of these things in public—unless, of
course, they are being presented to Royalty.
All the Governors missed the chance of
opening the show, G.-G. Denman being in
Sydney, and sub-Excellency Fuller in the
Wimmera, receiving mayoral medals at Nhill
and other distant parts. So Speaker
McDonald, of the Federal House, who is
himself something of an amateur with brush
and palette, passed a few appropriate re-
marks to the crowd that flocked round the
paintings.
The tea-and-scone industry is flourishing
these days, and the bunshop bosses can
afford to turn down good temporary stands.
Tne Victorian artists offered the balcony
landing as a good place to catch the thirsty
picture gazer on tne hop; but not one food-
ery chief would bring along her boiler, staff
and crockery. Such a chance would have
caused a stampede in the old days, and
cream puffs would have been trampled to
death; but the times have changed, and the
hot pie is a scarce animal. The independence
of the cake specialists is matched by that of
the furniture hirers, who intimated that they
could not spare furnishings for a whole fort-
night. “A day or two” was the limit they
offered. However, Mrs. McCubbin, who is a
capable person, rose to the occasion. Within
an hour or so, she had discovered and
dredged some chairs from the depth of the
Athenaeum Club, ordered cakes and tea,
found attendants for herself, and started a
brisk business.
At the St. Kilda Town Hall, last week, the
Misses Hyams gave their annual grown-up
pupils’ dance. Some 400 advanced students
of toe-culture were in the frisk, clothed in
fancy dress or otherwise. Two of the sets
were refreshingly original. One lot wore
small monoplanes on their heads; the other
party looked fresh and fetching in white
boating costumes and cornflower hats. A
French cotillon and a grand march pro-
vided entertainment for balcony-gazers. At
supper, the senior pupils presented the
Hyams firm with an oak writing desk. Coun-
cillor Stapley, a tall, dark man remarkably
like Marshall-Hall, handed over the furni-
ture on behalf of the grateful two-steppers.
At the Arts and Crafts Club, the other
Tuesday, the visitors found enamels and
basket-work bidding for attention, with bits
of sculpture. Energetic Margaret Basker-
ville gave an absorbing demonstration of
modelling, and hung a cheeky little terra-
cotta head christened “Sue” on the wall for
general admiration. A number of Carmichael
lace models served as a reminder of the cap-
able Excellency’s useful and beautiful hobby.
The enamels on view are partly of local
origin and partly old examples which have
been lent by various artistic people. Among
the curious is an inkstand, centuries old,
which would infuse inspiration into a care-
worn poet even on washing day. Some
baskets woven by Dorothea Adams are quite
as nice as any Maori or other work I have
seen. A race-time exhibition is to be held,
and, at the end of November, a sale will
scatter most of the desirable things all
round the compass.
Dr. Karl Kumin is a disconcerting per-
son. His lecture posters show dreadful-
looking savages, and one of his latest successes
is a striped crocodile, such as convivialists
dream at the end of a Cup carnival. The
doctor can only see one way of escape from
the threatened Mohammedan deluge—that
is, to turn the fanatical hordes into Chris-
tians. This is a large order; but, even if it
could be done, it wouldn’t do away with holy
warring; it would merely transform the
harmless vestment-and-candle squabbles into
tremendous upheavals, for the" brown person
takes his religion seriously, and would not
be satisfied with ecclesiastical pillow fights.
Another charity amateur theatrical per-
formance, with Lesly Madden at the steering
desk, is looming on the horizon. The com-
pany is the same that successfully played
“The Liars” and “The Case of Rebellious
Susan,” except that the Vallanges will be
absent this time. Mrs. Yallange was good
from an amateur standpoint, and will be
missed ; but her spare husband just walked
through his parts as if somebody had left
the gate open, and he had blown in. The co.
now rehearsing includes among its stars
artist Bunny’s sister, Mrs. Donald McKin-
non, the two Madden maidens and Marjorie
and Athol Levey. The men are Lawyer
Hector Macdonald, Judge Holroyd’s barris-
ter son, “Tommy” Cochrane, Peter Schuler
and one of the Grice clan. This time they
are to attempt Oscar Wilde’s “The Import-
ance of Being Earnest,” and the effort will
be made at the Royal, on Friday (27th).
Harry Hill is producing the play, and the
proceeds are to be poured into the money
boxes of the Prahran Crhche and Toorak
Kindergarten. Secretary Lesly Madden, or
any of the performers, will supply intending
witne c, '-~~ with tickets on application.
Caulfield Guineas proved a brisk day soci-
ally. Sassiety lias not quite emerged from
the burrow where it slept away the winter,
but it is rapidly getting ready for flight (the
burrow figure of speech doesn’t quite seem
to fit here), and dressmakers’ lives are be-
ginning to be burdens. A few wise virgins
and dames have their Cup clothes all ready
and packed away in tissue-paper wrappings
before Guineas Day: but. these are scarce
in the land. The great majority make a wild
sprint of it. There were a few advance bows
visible on Saturday—amazing things that
stood up from the summits of conical hats,
or swung like loose aeroplane wings from
flat roofs.
Two bright yellow travelling gas engines
in the motor paudock showed that the Ful-
ler Government House was represented. The
visitors they had oiled out with were mostly
men, and they troubled the reserved pen very
little. Occasionally, a top-hatted aide flut-
tered in feverishly through force of habit,
lingered a moment, and departed in an
absent-minded way. Governor Fuller came
along without his lady, and wandered between
the paddock and the bookmakers, when he
was not amongst the black frock coats and
race glasses on the lawn. The John Mad-
dens looked in at the vice-regal coop now and
then. The Chief Justicess wore a black hat
over a very white face; but John beamed
happily, and had a red rose in his button-
hole. The revival of the buttonhole is re-
joicing the hearts of the old beaux, but the
younger generation follows the fashion re-
luctantly. Ernest Brooks was a gracious
spectacle in pale dove-grey clothes and a
cornflower.
Nowadays the fashionables who do not
sport a bow the size of a yacht’s mainsail
get the showy effect by a much more expen-
sive method— i.e., by supporting an immense
ostrich feather. Mrs. Prout Webb, in purple,
was visible beneath an out-size specimen.
The pretty little Evans girl, who is just
back from somewhere or other, wore a black
linen dress and hat, and had her lovely au-
burn hair done in tight, shining rolls. Mrs.
Phyllis Reggie Power’s hat was decorated
with pink bows that made one think of the
spring poet’s dairymaid, and the Frank Mad-
den lady was gowned impressively in black
with a wonderful network of black velvet on
the front.
H. B. Irving glode about the lawn, and
managed to look almost like an everyday
racegoer under the influence of a win on
Malt King, but his remarkable clothes saved
him from becoming an undistinguished ac-
tor. His coverings seemed to belong to the
Dickens or First Henry Irving period, and his
collar looked like a combination of the Glad-
stone and King Charles styles. He con-
versed long and earnestly with Dorothea
Baird Irving, who wore a pretty hat
wreathed with violets, and a voluminous
black cloak. Essie Perrin appeared in a
natty white linen rig-out, with a tight, round
turban set on her fair hair. The weather
did its level best to give both linens and furs
a fair show with alternate sun baths and
cold breezes. Tussores won in a canter
standing up equally well against heat and
cold. Mrs. Dr. Joyce wore a fine specimen
of the tussore order, and conversed with a
tea-party while hubby was away mending
Horizon's injured jockey.
Jester Bert Gilbert has had to put by the
cap and bells for a while, one eye having re-
fused duty. It is now obscured by bandages;
but the other shines gaily and works over-
time to make up for its tired brother. The
doctor has recommended rest and quiet, and
the stage humorist is getting it somewhere
on the Blue Mountains.
The Quamby Club gave Dorothea Baird
Irving muffins and strawberries last week.
Some members swatted over their Shaks-
peares for days beforehand, in order to be
able to thrust and parry conversationally
with the guest. Evidently, they labored under
the delusion that Mr. aud Mrs. Irving earn
their living by playing “Ilamlet,” and hor-
rors of that sort, rai her than "The Bells,”
“The Lyons Mail." XL” and the like.
One evening last week I stumbled over a
small, but select body weltering in its intel-
lect at the rooms of the Australian Litera-
ture Society. The body had roiled up to
hear Willie Moore, a leading local disciple of
“Art for Art’s Sake” discourse on “Local
Color in our Art aud Literature.” Willie
said he objected to the prevailing note of
gloom in Australian literature, and made an
appeal for more sunshine. lie also implored
Australian artists to cease painting pictures
of “Cousin Nellie in an Armchair.” After-
wards, poet Bernard O'Dowd made a few
impassioned remarks: and Dr. Mclnerney,
and artists McCliutock, McCubbin and Shir-
low put a bead ou the pint pot of eloquence.
All those present tried to look as if they
understood every word, but I went away
agreeing with W. J. Locke’s observation,
made in his latest novel, that “Art is long,
but talk about it is longer.”
Esta d’Argo and Ben Taffy Davies met a
large audience with a strong leaven of wildly
enthusiastic Welshmen at the Town Hall,
on Saturday night. The concert opened with
the inevitable piano solo. Edward Goll,
despite his melodious growth of hair, seemed
rather uncertain in his attack on the box of
music, and the seriously critical section of
the crowd might have complained that he
varied his Chopin, Brahms and Liszt per-
formances too much as regards time. The
accompaniments were entrusted to William
Conway.
Davies, from behind a broad fortress of
glittering white shirt-front and waistcoat,
warbled “Waft Her Angels ” and a recita-
tive of Handel’s with mild effect, but warmed
up considerably with three Schubert songs.
The house rose at Mm and insistently de-
manded more; whereupon the capricious
tenor sang of Maud and the garden whence
the black bat Night had aviated. Esta
d’Argo, who used to be Hetty llolroyd, is the
same handsome dark srirl as of old, with a
methodically trained voice. It is pleasing,
but would not burn the Thames to the
ground. She was clothed like a delectable
strawberry ice. Some wonderful lace was
moulded on squashed raspberry pink silk,
with a flounce of rich Devonshire cream
satin. Her little songs from Schumann,
Haydn and Herman Lohr won carefully
modulated applause from myself, but two ex-
tracts from Verdis “Ernani” were brilli-
antly sung. The soprano finally won her
audience and about two barrowloads of vege-
tables with a duet, “O Wondrous Joy,” with
tenor Davies.
“The Chocolate Soldier,” at the Royal,
was partly surrounded by a regiment of
Irishmen on Saturday night, the Celtic Club
having monopolised circle and boxes for the
theatre party tendered to the Irish envoys.
The visitors are fine-looking, serious young-
men, with thoughtful brows and curly hair,
and the “young” party in Melbourne enthuses
over their very modern views and calm,
business-like methods. “They never mention
Parnell or the old gags,” I heard one man
explaining to a friend.
Quite a lot of citizens have had their faces
scarified by hatpins without anything being-
done; but, recently, a careless damsel with
steel porcupines in her hair had the bad
luck to furrow the face of a Board of Health
officer. The result is that war has been de-
clared by Dr. Ham, chief of the Depart-
ment. There is one possible remedy that I
can see for the hatspear danger. Every
trinket-seller in town has lots of “shields”
the small, neat, metal catches : that clip
over the points of the head bayonets. They
are to be had for 6d. apiece, and, if every
man bought two and presented them to his
best girl with the request to wear them for
his sake, she might do so, and thereby dodge
the wrath of Ham. Most probably, though,
she wouldn’t wear them. Or she would
accept and lose them witn her usual promp-
titude. So Dr. Ham might as well think out
a by-law and a suitable penalty.
Talking of poor Willie Judkins, a Mel-
bourne stockbroker remarked that the first
syllable of the sick man’s name was pro-
bably an incentive to Christian endeavoring.
The man of stocks spoke pensively of a Jud-
fieui and a Judleigh who gave him Sunday-
school instruction in his days of comparative
innocence. They also were called respect-
ively, “Jud” and “Juddy,” for short, and
they prided themselves on being part-
namesakes of Yankee missionary Jud-
son—Adoniram Judson —who took the
Bible to Burmah a hundred years ago,
and translated Holy Writ into Burmese.
Adoniram, it seems, stood the local climate
and diseases pretty well, but it killed two of
his devoted wives in succession, after which
he married a third. He was the Grand Old
Jud of the American Baptist persuasion.
From my Adelaide correspondent: —
Politicians foregathered at St. Peter’s, last week,
for the wedding of Minister of Education Coneybeer’s
daughter. The toast-list looked as much like a Parli-
amentary notice paper as anything else. The bride
had to listen to 11 speeches before she escaped on her
honeymoon.
Another wedding of the week was that of Miss
Annie Sandford, of Fitzroy, to Mr. Hayward, whose
business it is to send messages on their way for the
Eastern Extension Co.
The Woman’s Rights movement continues to forge
firmly ahead. A suburban hotel, recently renovated,
bears this legend: “Private Entrance; also Ladies’
Bar.”
Derby Day (Saturday) was a dreary affair. The
weather was mournful, and racegoers put on their
most archaic clothes, and looked mournful too. The
big race of the day fell to a comparative outsider in
Sanskrit, owned by Dr. A. H. Bennett. Ladara sup-
plied the biggest bleat of excitement by giving
backers £2O 6s. for second place in the Morphett-
ville Plate.
On Wednesday things looked up, and the vice-regal
box held Lady and Miss Bosanquet, as well as the
men of the household. Mr. A. P. Bowman secured a
double win with The Greek and Monarch.
The latest engagement is that of Leslie Bickford
to Miss Hope Murray. The Murrays are squatters;
the Bickfords do not require to work either, and have
been among the mainstays of our Hunt Club for ages.
“Manufacturers’ Week” was responsible for some
saucy window displays. A big drapery firm made a
specialty of feminine underwear of the most gorgeous
variety. One result was a masculine crowd that
threatened to block the traffic. A patriot of the
grocer breed filled his window with S. Australian
ham and bacon, the which he lavishly decorated with
festoons of roses and colored electric light. It looked
like a Mayor’s ball gone mad.
At present on their way to Colombo are the Frank
Irwins, while the Alfred Simpsons are thinking of
booking their return passages. Miss Simpson set out
for Westralia, but, on getting so far, she found the
call of palms and the tropics too strong, so she went
on. Mr. “Bob” and Miss Addie Baker have booked
passages for England by an early boat, and on
Monday a few of Mr. Baker’s friends travelled to
Glenelg, where, at the invitation of the Law Smiths,
they’d a chance of bidding him “good-bye.”
The Society of Arts embroglio still rages —if an
embroglio can be said to rage. The peg on which the
squabble is hung—if a squabble can be said to hang
—is apparently Miss Rose MacPherson, though why
any Art Society shouldn’t jump at the chance of get-
ting her as a member is a mystery. Pictures which
the local Show refused were hung in Paris and else-
where ; but that's a detail!
Political feeling was suspended for the moment
when the news of the death of Representative Batch-
elor came through. He was widely respected and
liked by all parties, sects and creeds.
Amongst those who have booked passages to leave
us are the Stockbridges. About a year ago he arrived
from to help in the making of our trams.
” We’re sad at the temporary loss of the Gordons.
The Judge’s work on the Sugar Commission will keep
him in Melbourne for some time, and his family in-
tends to share his Siberian exile. They are now under-
stood to be plodding over the trackless, snow-clad
wastes that lead to Collins-street, where there are
Cossacks and bears on the horizon.
Wayside advertisers have a deal to put up with
from the cheap humorist. Travellers are puzzled by
frequent intimations that “All things perish—Sinners
last for ever; “Sinners lead the way,” etc. At
last light dawns, and it is seen that these are merely
advertisements for a certain brand of sewing-machine,
some wildly mirthful person having dug out the cen-
tral “g” and replaced it with an additional “n.”
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


Copyright and property of John Dewar & Sons, Ltd., Distillers to His Majesty the King, H.I.M. the German Emperor,
H.M. the King of Spain, and H.M. the King of Sweden.


w
V'
cV
WudorCi
titles#
AW*
TB?€ Jtidge’S Associate!
The good judge who would
have a good associate will
always choose
WATSON’S No. 10
WHISKY.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Is the most wonderful remedy ever discovered for
Coughs and Colds. It will relieve you when all
others have failed. Is. 6d. and 3s.*
O.T. LIMITED.
An action was concluded in the First Civil Court,
Melbourne, on 11th October, before Mr. Justice
Hodges, in which O.T. Limited sued J. B. McArthur,
licensee of Hosie’s Hotel, Elizabeth-street, on the
ground that defendant's servants had passed off
cordials not of the company’s manufacture as being
O.T. The defence was a denial of the offence. Mr.
Duffy, K.C., and Mr. Starke (instructed by Mr. F.
B. Waters) appeared for plaintiff company, and Mr.
McArthur and Mr. Cussen (instructed by Messrs.
Iledderwick, Fookes and Altson) for the defendant.
Evidence having been given on both sides, his Honor
said that as soon as it was clear that the evidence
of the witnesses who were employed for the purpose
of finding out whether other liquid was being passed
off for O.T. was to be believed, it was apparent that
plaintiff must succeed. The evidence, which had
been most fairly given, was enough to show that
there had been an intention on the part of one of
defendant’s employees to pass off 0.K.0. as 0.T., and
he did this on more than one occasion. Judgment
was given for plaintiff, with costs, and an injunction
was granted restraining defendant, his servants and
agents, from passing off as O.T. any liquid not of
plaintiff’s manufacture.*
MISERY EOR YEARS
WITH INDIGESTION.
♦
A Constant Sufferer tells how
She was Cured*
After suffering severe attacks of Indiges-
tion, after almost every meal for years, Mrs.
M. Shorter, of Toowoomba, Queensland,
tried the tonic treatment, which aims at in-
creasing the strength of the stomach so that
it can digest food properly. Her experience
was remarkable, for sue found speedy relief
and can now, for the tirst time in man)
years, eat an ordinary meal with comfort.
Mrs. Shorter, who lives in Mort Street,
stated : , . , ...
“For many years I had been troubled witn
Indigestion. As sure as 1 took a meal i
would get a suffocating sort of pain in my
chest almost directly after, and I would tee
a weighty pain right through to my shouldei
blades. I would be quite weighed down with
it, and hardly able to breathe. I could not
bear my clothes to be at all tight on me. T
never could find any appetite for fear ol in-
digestion coming on after. I could hard!)
bear to even cook the food, the smell would
upset me. I had such dreadful headaches,
too. All my head seemed whirling, and tne
ache would press over my eyes till 1 could
hardly see. I would be afraid to stoop, tor
the blood would rush to my head and make
me dizzy. I turned awfully yellow and
sallow. Sometimes, too, a regular mist
would come over my eyes. I would wake “P
every morning with a sour, acid taste tnat
stayed on me for hours, and my tongue vas
always furry and dry. My system would(be
full of wind. All the time I would be des
pondent and wretched, but I made “P 1 u
mind to give Dr. Williams Pink lills
trial, and since I finished the course ®*
health has been splendid. Now I can eat
anvthing I fancy, and the constant load and
the weariness have all gone. My colo
come back, and I feel a different being alto
ge Don’t let any dealer talk you into taking
something which he says is Just as good.
If you are pestered to take a substitute,
send 2s. 9d. for one box, or 15s. 3d. for six
boxes to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. ot
Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
<2
The true safe-
guard is Den-
yer’s Special
Elastic Truss
Gives perfect
support, and
allows active
exercise in
safety. Non-
irritating—no
steel springs;
denyer
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double-
Others from 3 6
cool, most durable. Exact fit assured Oallorjmie.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Mahers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.). ,
and at Melbourne, corner Swanston_&L2£f2^MM
POLITICAL
POINTS
BIGJOHN FORRESTS BACK AGAIN.
The Aft. 8 ½in. gauge seems out of all proportion.
“Adenoid”: They now call it the Gibberal
Party.
Premier John Weary lias at last sagged
back to Victoria, and been interviewed. He
said (1) that something ought to be done
about the better distribution of Australian
produce in England; (2) ditto about ship-
ping matters ; (3) about immigration. Then
lie sat down heavily in his untidy clothes and
said that something really ought to be
done.
Lack of time was Acting-Premier’s Watt’s
excuse for refusing the request of Mel-
bourne’s “public” chauffeurs for a Wages
Board. By all accounts the youths in gog-
gles, leggings and determined countenances,
who drive taxis and other cars for hire, are
sweated most outrageously, their hours run-
ning up to 16, or even 20, a day, without any
Sunday off, and their wages running down
to 20s. a week. An instance is given of a
driver going for two days and a night with-
out taking his leggings off. The motor
seems a Juggernaut car with a vengeance—-
deadly alike to those who drive it and to
those over whom it is driven.
Item of evidence given before the N.S.W.
Public Works Committee :
If there were two or three ports away from Sydney,
they would not know the place in 15 or 20 years.
At present, Sydney Harbor was not constructed to
offer facilities to the shipment of heavy material, and
it was taxed now to cope with it. The Harbor was
certainly capable of being made to cope with all
classes of heavy shipping, but two more additional
ports along the coast for shipping purposes would
make a great difference. Once a jetty was put out
at Jervis Bay for shipping, the surrounding country
would go ahead very quickly. He had great hopes
for this district, and considered a railway would
open it up more quickly than some people thought.
The Vic. Railway Commissioners aren’t
exactly sweaters, but some of the economies
they 'practise might not satisfy a Wages
Board. Thus, the Government lately in-
structed them that, in future, Sunday work
must be paid for at the rate of time and a-
quarter. The Commissioners bowed, of
course, but they put their own interpreta-
tion on “Sunday work.” Thus, the crew of
a goods train that leaves Spencer-street for
the country at 11 p.m. on Saturday, gets
no time and a-quarter, even though the men
run the caravan around the Backblocks the
whole blessed Sabbath. Their train is called
the Saturday north-south-eastern-perpendicu-
lar goods, or whatever it may be, and, even
though it ran for a week on end, it would
still be the “Saturday N.-S.-E.-P. goods.”
Premier Verran lately told the junior
members of the S.A. civil service that his
ideal is a minimum wage of £2OO a year for
42 hours weekly. The vision was received
with enthusiasm. But unless Verran bor-
rows less and manages to pay for a few
more things out of revenue the reality, by-
and-bye, is more likely to be a reduction to
425. a week for 200 months, or the retrench-
ment of 200 civil servants after 42 years
service, or the offer of 2d. in the £ on a debt
of £42,000,000, the balance to stand for 200
years at two per cent. Or, again, it may be
that 42 months hence the maddened civil
service will give 200 cheers when it hears
that Verran has been thrown out. Or when
the bad times come, and the debt can’t be
renewed, the House may reduce Verran’s
own pay to £2OO, and do it by a majority of
42, after he has vainly endeavored to borrow
£200,000 at 4.2 per cent, to go on with.
The Fisher-Hughes Ministry already finds
that it made a mess of affairs over the Aus-
tralian capital. It hadn’t the courage to
do its duty to Australia, and insist on get-
ting a proper and sufficient area for the
Federal capital, and getting it in a suit-
able place, so that it could do some-
thing big in the matter of public ownership
of land and industries. Rather it did an
abject backdown to the Tory Wade and his
Private Enterprise gang, and took what they
were prepared to give. Now it is dodging
humbly round the offices of the State Min-
isters, begging for a little more elbow-room,
and some more water catchment area, and a
few other appurtenances of civilisation.
Neither of the two far-apart bits of land
into which the absurd capital is divided is
large enough for the purpose, a matter
which The Bulletin pointed out 100 times
over; but, unfortunately, Hughes was too
busy trying to placate the Sydney Tele-
Grapll to listen to any but Tory advice, and
Fisher doesn’t seem to count for much when
his dodgy lieutenant is around.
From S. M. Herald (7/10/’ll) :
Colonel Onslow said that the Liberal party did
hold a “caucus,” but when it came to every member
being bound to follow the decision of that caucus
that was another thing. (Applause.) Every member
of the Liberal party was free to vote against his party
if he wished. (Applause.)
William McMillan [speaking from the same plat-
form to the same gathering] said that in every con-
dition of life in which a man has to do his duty
there was one unforgivable sin—-disloyalty. (Hear,
hear.) Lord Palmerston had described an independent
man as a man who could not be depended on.
(Hear, hear.)
Liberal “applause” for Onslow’s yarn re
“every member of the Liberal party being
free to vote against his party if he wished” ;
and Liberal “Hear, hears” for McMillan’s
absolutely contrary sentiment that “an in-
dependent is a man who can’t be depended
on,” and the committer of an “unforgivable
sin.” You take vour choice as to whether
Onslow or McMillan is lying concerning the
attitude of Liberalism in the matter. As to
the rank idiocy of the “Liberal” crowd,
which cheered both views, there can, how-
ever, be no question.
From the S. M. Herald’s valedictory to
Egerton Lee Batchelor :
Mr. Batchelor was not only trained and ready for
responsibility. He was still an eager student of
public questions, and was earnest and enthusiastic in
his pursuit of knowledge and experience. This is
what counts most in public affairs as in private life.
We have no time to spare for the flabby personality.
What is needed everywhere is the grip of big things
and a lively sense of the importance of details. The
Labor party is a great forcing-bed for men of this
type. It evolves them in the early stages, and brings
them forward at a great pace in the later periods.
And, at election times, the Herald is accus-
tomed to voice the stock “Liberal” lie re
the independence-slaying, character-blight-
ing, personality-destroying effects of “caucus
domination” as strenuously as any other old
sheet.
Though hampered by constitutional re-
strictions, the Australian Government is still
trying its best to kill the infamous 400-lb.
wheat-sack, and has now about reached the
limits of its powers. First, the importation
of bags of a size to hold more than 3001 b. was
prohibited ; then the use of such heartbreakers
was forbidden in the import and export
trade ; and lately that regulation was applied
to the inter-State trade. The purely State
trade is beyond Commonwealth control. All
this bother and expense could have been
avoided by a simple regulation of the State
railway departments; forbidding the con-
veyance of inordinate sacks: but onlv South
Aus. though it worth while. The fact
that the Australian Parliament con-
demned big bags was enough to “nark” the
provincial Ministries into favoring or ig-
noring them. The State Frighters would
view the Angel Gabriel with disfavor if he
were a Federal Minister.
Unless t’otherside press is a prevari-
cator, Westralia’s Labor Premier Scaddan
is going to make a bad start. According to
the published yarn :
He emphatically [at the Perth Show] denied the
statement that the Labor Government would not be
in favor of the farmers. They intended to do all
they could to foster farming. It was intended to
raise money in London to assist farmers over the
present dry season.
Westralia’s old political crowd spent bor-
rowed money in “repairs to a glasshouse for
breeding pest-destroying parasites”; but
“tucker for drought-stricken farmers” will
look worse than even that uproarious entry
in the State’s Loan Account. What sort of
a permanent and reproductive undertaking
is the tucker-or other assistance which the
Government proposes to offer? And how
many immigrants does Scaddan reckon he
will attract by the announcement, in London,
that the State’s farmers are so hard up,
owing to drought, that they have to be fed
on the State’s I O IJ’s?
A PILLAR OF SOCIETY!
The president said the Federation saw in Mr.
Wade the emblem of honesty.... And the fact that
he stood for the interests of the masses made the
Employers’ Federation look up to him as a leader. —
News item from the Master Builders’ dinner.
N.S.W. lias been informed, at a meeting
of the Shopkeepers’ Defence Association, that
Mr. George Turner (whoever he may be)
and Mr. T. C. Bradley (whoever he may be)
are organising a new political party. Its
object is to fill Parliament with “men of
business capacity,” also “men who have
had experience in the diplomatic world.”
Seeing that Australia’s crop of diplomatists
is rather short this year, the shopkeepers will
probably have to fall back on “men of busi-
ness capacity.” And in the end that will
doubtless prove to mean the same old cus-
toms-dodger at the corner shop.
The N.S.W. Premier has been making
quite a loud fuss about the concentration of
the quarantine business at Sydney, whereby
a few disease germs may be thrown at the
city. Really, that is nothing, by comparison
with other possibilities. For instance, if the
naval station, naval arsenals and Federal
shipbuilding yards are crowded into Sydney,
a day may come when an enemy, in his
anxiety to destroy these properties, will
throw 75,000 shells at the place. Then con-
flagration will follow upon ruin, and pesti-
lence, by reason of the dead bodies lying
around, will come after, and there will in-
deed be strenuous times.
THE BLACK AND WHITE HOPE.
One of the few remaining footprints of the
late Thomas Bent is being wiped out. Vic-
torian Minister for Railways Billson is ex-
tinguishing all the disqualifications, forfei-
tures, discharges, losses of pension, etc., im-
posed on the railway strikers of 1903. In
other words, Billson, the undertaker, pro-
poses to bury the remaining bones of the sad
old episode and shake hands with all parties
concerned over the grave. So, if the peace-
makers are really blessed, Billson should
have a big pair of white wings in the Here-
after —though his name is a rather curious
one for an angel. Still, there are doubtless
angels named Smith.
SUCCESS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The intolerance displayed in the attempt by a minor-
ity to stifle free speech . . . contributed more to. the
success of the meeting . . . than could the most
strenuous and cogent arguments on the other side. —
Argus report of a meeting convened for the purpose
of disagreeing with the principle of preference to
unionists (3/10/’ll).
We love the loud hoof-thunder of the roaring Labor
gods
Who sit around, and splinter all our flowing periods.
We’re not prevaricating when we say that we rejoice
If shrieks of ribald laughter greet the tangled creeds
we voice.
When interjectors great and small get fairly on the
job,
And hunks of vulgar sound among our vocal bouquets
lob,
Are we down-hearted ? Are we glum and sunk in
grim distress ?
Not we ! This is Success !
Aye, we are pleased, indeed, to hear the screams of
mirth that rise
At every old-wife’s tale we tell. We love the noisy
cries
Of “Traitor!” “Yah!” “800-hoo!” and “Rats!”
that our remarks compel—
The loud, ferocious, frenzied howl —the long, wild,
strident yell.
We like it, when the sound of feet impedes our eager
speech,
And rude ejaculations greet the gospel-truths we
preach.
When bursts of wrath and angry groans our platform
efforts bless,
We recognise success !
When, north and south, disturbance reigns, and yells
rise east and west,
And one by one our speakers die away and give it
best,
When whisker after whisker waves, and sinks to rest
unheard,
And none but the reporters hear a single blessed
word —-
When each and ev’ry one of us, amid a noise im-
mense,
Has tried in vain to give, with bold, unbustled elo-
quence,
Ilis well-thought-out, most scholarly and masterful
address,
We are a great success!
When some heartbroken orator gives forth his painful
yelp
Of how the toiler really needs some soul-uplifting
help,
We thrill with joy if hoots and boots combine his
voice to drown....
“Shall we” (loud groans) “submit” (Hooray) “to
Labor’s yoke?” (Sid-down!)
“Shall we assist the tyrant” [cheers] “to trample on
our rights,
And Win the holy fights that anti-Labor” (laughter)
“fights?”
When frenziedly the meeting rises up to bellow
“Yes ! 1”
Ain’t we a huge success?
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


JuLUL,
1
!(«
INSTAMT CHANGE FROM
I PIANISSIMO TO
FORTISSIMO OR ■
VICE-VERSA ■
ABILITVTO
emphasize
ANY NOTE
ABSOLUTE
WARRANTY
FOR TEN
YEARS
fe
mm
THE
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson &<£©.,limited
GEORGE ST. SYDNEY,
AND AT
NEWCASTLE. ORANCE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA & WARWICK.
Who are the Pioneers of Cinematography?
Everyone knows that
PATHE FRERES
hold this proud distinction.
THEIR FILMS AND MACHINES
are so justly celebrated in every country in the world that
ADVERTISING IS UNNECESSARY.
A WORD OF ADVICE!
Watch the columns of
“ PATHE S WEEKLY.”
The first Australian bulletin of Cinematography. Week by week you will see
the latest news about
THE PATHE PRODUCTIONS.
and all about Cinematography.
Send O/O to
Pathe
51 & 53 ELIZABETH
ST., SYDNEY.
95 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
672 Hay Street, PERTH.
otP° S
Freres,
50 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
76 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
66 Elizabeth Street, HOBART.
And 291 Hunter Street, WELLINGTON,
and the paper will be posted to you week by week for one year.
f./
,
oJcmn^i
! 11 m
ill
ire
liu
V, 1 *
\
: f: :■
\ yr : .
\ \
\ \.• >*
cj/iocm/mj
.
Sporting Shifts at Farmer’s.
Cut by Experts—Fit as Shirts should Fit
—Accurate in Size and Perfect in Quality.
White and Colored Shirts, for Tennis, Boating, Golf, etc., with Collar attached /
and Pocket and Double Cuffs. This is a most comfortable and smart Shirt for
sporting or holiday wear.
White Mat Tennis Shirts, with Band or Collar and Pockets, and Rifle Cuffs.
All sizes. Prices, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6 each.
White Twill Mercerised Shirts, with Band or Collar and Pockets; Rifle Cuffs.
All sizes. Prices, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6 each.
White Silk Dot Mat Shirts, with Band or Collar and Pockets, Rifle Cuffs. These
Shirts are made of the best material, and are very strong and comfortable.
Price each 6/6, or 38/- half dozen.
Cream Cotton Mixture Shirts, Self Satin Stripe Bands. All sizes.
Price, 5/- each, or 29/- half dozen.
With Collar and Pockets 5/6 each, or 32/- half dozen.
Cream Cashmere Shirts. —These Shirts are mostly All Wool, with Self Silk Stripe;
very light and cool. Bands or Collar and Pockets, Rifle' or Gauntlet Cuffs.
All sizes.
Price each, 10/6
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
V.
\
■V* 'v
J ¥j
> *
■-tiff.
Insure the price,
wool clip
fkj '
and yojir
VacmaiJ
It does N jiob plat
\ V t^ e fififctelJi


J. J. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet.
Second edition now ready. Containing latest racing
performances, July, August, September, October.
Price, sixpence. All booksellers. Gordon and Gotch,
agents; or publisher’s office.*
One of the big Tyre Co.’s is thinking about
ordering an extra size in hats for itself, consequent
on the fact that, at the recent big Motor Car Show
at Sydney, its goods were fitted to 50 per cent, more
cars than the next build of tyre. Needless to state
we are referring to the Continental Tyre Co.*
LIGHT
YOUR HOME
The problem of
lighting your home at
small cost is easily
solved by an Atmos-
1i t e Safety Air-gas
Machine. Simple and
automatic. Brilliant
light, safe, and non-
poisonous. Costs Id.
per hour for five 50
C.P. lights. Nine sizes
stocked. Send post-
card for literature.
Tells all about air-
gas.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
LAMPHOUSE.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
REACH’S SELECT STOCK ALE * LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALGOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
How the popularity of the Warrnambool
does last. This was the 15th of the series, and at-
tracted no less than 340 acceptances. No less than
42 inter-State riders were in the district 10 days
before the race, running over the road, spying out
the land generally, and getting acclimatised. Last
year’s blue ribbon went to the sturdy J. Pianta, of
Westralia, and the gentleman faced the music again
in very tough company. Naturally, he was on
scratch, and with him were J. McSweeney, also of
Westralia, T. J. Gascoyne, of N.S.W., P. O’Shea
and A. B. L. Smith, of Maoriland, and D. Kirkham, of
Victoria. This was bad enough, especially the
presence of Kirkham, who ran fastest in the Goul-
burn, and spun over the Vic. Cycle Traders’ Assoc.
100 miles in shr. smin. 55sec. on Saturday week.
And that was not all. On the 2min. mark was A.
Birch, of Maoriland, the man who did such a bat in
a race from Timaru to Christchurch, and was known
to be able to stand a fierce run, and then come
with a fearsome spurt. There were five others, all
speedy young men, on the same mark, so it was
obvious that the back-marker who ran through to the
front would have a rough contract to hold his own.
But, of all these, Kirkham was easily the most
fancied.
* # * *
But, as usual, when the numbers went up,
the back-markers never had a look in. The glorv
and the prizes fell to the middle distance gentrv, who
were strong enough to wear dowm the long-starters
and keep ahead of the back-markers. No less than
55 dropped out, and reduced the field to 281, which
was big enough in all conscience. Variable side
winds made riding uncomfortable at the start, but,
before a quarter of the journey was completed, the
wheelers found themselves struggling against a dead
head wind, which turned discomfort to hard labor.
Five long-markers paced each other, and managed to
keep a good lead. Behind, a bunch of 60 were tak-
ing one another along in short sprints and coming
up very fast. But they were making the pace almost
too hard, and the bunch was beginning to straggle
out, when five Victorians —Collins (34min.), Tebbs
(42min.), Lessing (40min.), Hughes (34min.) and
Slaney (44min.) —cut loose and sailed after the
leaders at a great pace. The leaders were over-
hauled after passing Winchelsea, and it became clear
that, as far as any but the five were concerned, the
Warrnambool was over. Collins smote the earth
hard with his body at Geelong, but quickly re-
mounted, and fled on. At the top of Haymarket
Hill, Melbourne, they were all dead level, and going
for their lives. Tebbs once got to the front, but
Collins flashed up on the inside of him and won by
inches. Lessing, who finished third, protested that
he had been interfered with by Collins. Collins
denied this, and the matter is to be decided by the
League of Wheelmen. The back-markers were out
of it, except O’Shea, of Maoriland, who, by running
through in Bhr. 18min. 44sec., secured the prize for
fastest time. The actual winner took Bhr. 45min.
llsec. The head wind, of course, accounted for the
slow time, and for the big proportion which dropped
out by the wayside, and took to trains, drink and
other means of locomotion. Of the 281 starters, only
195 finished. One of the droppers, however, had
legitimate excuse, having broken his collar-bone near
Camperdown.
The Dunlop Rubber people, who promoted the race,
were naturally elated at the fact that the first four
prizes and fastest time fell to men using their tyres.
Collins ascribed his fall at Geelong to interference
by parties who are still at large. Lessing, who
protested against Collins’s win, declares that some-
body, believed to be Collins, gripped him by the
saddle and pulled him back, as he was in the act
of unwinding his last kick for first place. Although
the time was slow, it was highly creditable, for the
winning bunch practically averaged 20 miles an
hour, which is mighty good going for 165 miles, and
three-fourths of it against a stiff head wind. Twice
in succession this long race has provided as exciting
a finish as a track sprint match could have done.
This year, the first five were bunched together in the
space of two lengths. The Ma State riders failed
to get a look-in, and the best performance on Ma’s
behalf was put up by A. C. Woollcott, who, with
lOmin. handicap, finished 35th. Collins, the winner,
is a Melbourne youth, and has been riding only two
years. He finished fifth in last year’s Warrnam-
bool.
# * * *
The Australasian cycling championships
meeting at Brisbane seems to have been a frosty
affair, from which the public enthusiastically stayed
away. The chief event was the half-mile champion-
ship of the continent, and it was run off in four
heats and a final. For the ultimate struggle Trous-
dell, of Queensland, found himself alone against
Saleh, Beck, Burtinsbaw and Weston of the Ma
State, and, like the policeman and the 10 glasses of
beer he downed the lot. His running was described by
people on the spot as brilliant, and he whizzed over
the distance in lmin. 7 2-ssec., winning by two
lengths from Saleh, with Beck, another length away,
third. The other championship was the 10 miles.
Fourteen started, six representing N.S.W. anfl eight
Queensland. This time aMa Stater got home, in the
person of C. Cutliffe, with Trousdell only half a
length behind, and Beck a few inches behind the
Queenslander. Cutliffe did the journey in 20min.
35sec.
• • * *
ARhough “Snowy” Baker has rendered
many public services in the past, there is no doubt
that he has eclipsed them all by publishing his
“General Physical Culture.” It is a book that
everyone should buy and read carefully; especially
those who have young children. Baker does not
tell how to make champions—he does better.
While warning against undue development of any
one part of the body at the expense of the rest, he
tells briefly how to train children so that they will
attain the best physical development their bodies are
capable of; and all, women as well as men, will
find in his pages information as to how they can
improve their bodily health and personal appearance.
S.B. knows his subject thoroughly. Most books on
physical culture are dreary reading. Baker’s is not
—it is interesting, and goes straight to the point.
The volume, in addition to Baker’s instructions on
physical culture, contains special articles on “The
Crawl Stroke.” and “Surfing,” by Cecil Healy and
Harold Baker respectively, both men who know
their subjects from A to Z. A most useful book,
which everybody under the age of 70 should read,
mark, learn and inwardly digest. And. at the same
time, there is no reason to infer that anyone over
70 will come to harm by reading it. Even at 70
it is not too late to learn to breathe properly, for
instance.
* » * *
Manly, the chief water-side suburb of
Sydney, has easily the best record for safe surf
bathing. This is" probably due, not so much to
natural conditions as to the care that is taken. A
stipendiary life-saver is nearly always present, and
the local life-saving club goes to a lot of trouble to
have a number of members in attendance on the
beach at all hours. Life lines are provided by the
council, and the life-savers practise with them regu-
larly. In fact, it would be hard to find a more
purely socialistic affair than surf-bathing as carried
on at Manly. On the most dangerous part of the
beach there" are four lines, and on a recent night
these were all cut, not a length of 20ft. being left
whole. The workings of a mind that could prompt
such an outrage are beyond following, and the party
that owns such an intellect can be only a criminal
lunatic.
The Eight Hours’ festival at Adelaide
Jubilee Oval included the usual Legislators’ Race,
75 yards. Styles led till close on the post, where he
stumbled, and was “pipped” by Blundell. J. V.
O’Loghlin third. Time, lOsec. Visiting delegates
were disappointed with the attendance —under 5000.
The falling off is supposed to be due to moral South
Aus. having done away with the “art union” tickets.
The South Aus. Derby is not a big thing
—it was worth only £426 this year to the winner—
but it is a prize locally coveted. The only thing the
public could not decide was which of R. J. Mathe-
son’s colts, T.T. (by Bobadil) or Kadlunga (by
Aryan) would get it. In a field of eight the former
was backed down to 5 to 4, and the latter to 7 to 2.
Kadlunga got nearly knocked over the rails, and was
never dangerous. T.T. finished a bad third to Dr.
Bennett’s Sanskrit and A. D. McDonald’s Banffshire
—both by the young English sire Aryan, who is in
great favor just now. Sanskrit paid £9 in the
totalisator. Eight weeks before the race he had
strangles, badly; otherwise he was to have had a
shot at the Randwick Derby. The Morphettville
Plate (two-year-old), same day, went to a clever filly,
R. M. Hawker’s Tabanga. She paid £7 35., and the
second (come into the garden, Moses, and listen to
the tale!) paid £2O 65.!
Saturday, at Caulfield, produced the most
abundant crowd of punters tnat Isaac ever dealt
with on a Guineas Day. For the local “talent,”
racy of the Victorian soil, it was a pretty bad day,
though the stable of squatter Manifold had a couple
of winners which commanded the notes and interest
of a fashionable few. In three cases, however, the
local idol was downed, and Sydney visitors did
the cheering when the numbers went up. For that
matter, nobody made the welkin ring very loudly
over the result of the Debutant Stakes. Whilst
Melbourne money was pouring in for Deeside, the
backers of Randwick form thought only of Ventura,
and, seemingly, that spry filly was unlucky to get
beaten. She never approached the leaders until
Golden Gauntlet had cut down the vaunted Deeside,
when the half-mile flutter was practically all over.
In the last 100 yards, Ventura must have made up
a lot of ground, after being bumped on the rails.
Evidently, the precocious little filly was in good
heart; therefore, her failure to get quickly off the
mark, as she did in her two races at Randwick,
suggests that she must have been interfered with at
the very outset.
The Caulfield Stakes, despite the absence of
Aurofodina, was worth going miles to see. Once
again Comedy King was expected to prove himself a
champion, and this time the black horse (with
Norman Godby up) ran a fine race. But, whilst he
was gradually overhauling Lady Medallist, the more
speedy Malt King got his second wind, and, with a
long-sustained run, the son of Malster pipped the
black on the post. A great struggle. On return-
ing to the birdcage, Comedy King looked all the
better for this severe shaking up, and his Melbourne
Cup chance still holds good. The weight may stop
him at the finish, but, all going well, he should be
cherry-ripe on the day.
The Guineas only confirmed the impression that
this season’s 3-year-olds, with the possible exception
of Jacamar, are a moderate lot. Flaith, in Walter
Hickenbotham’s stable, was backed down to 7 to 4
to beat Woolerina, Radiator, Popinjay and Cisco:
the last of this bunch, though he looked
well enough, was marked “No good” on
the evidence of the touts. Flaith outstayed
Popinjay easily, but, when it came to racing home,
Woolerina made a hack of the Victorian colt, whilst
the despised Cisco was the only one of the unplaced
lot that seemed to have a gallop left. As matters
stand now with the 3-year-olds, Jacamar is likelv to
start a warm favorite for the V.R.C. Derby. Wool-
erina’s brilliancy thus far has never suggested that
she can stay 12 furlongs.
The youngsters being so poor, and the form of the
older gees having been sifted quite conclusively, in
many cases, the Caulfield Cup, at time of writing, is
talked of as a match between Aurofodina and Lady
Medallist. Wednesdav’s racing at Caulfield mav, or
may not, affect the betting market, but probably the
things that happen after The Bulletin has gone to
press won’t make much difference in Cup quota-
tions. Taking this lot to beat the field—Flavian,
Lady Medallist, Aurofodina, Jolly Beggar, Eye Glass,
Safrano and Sandbath—the pick is
Lady Medallist.
It can be reasonably argued that condition favored
Aurofodina when he beat Malt King twice in Sep-
tember. On paper, the Maoriland mare is as good as
Aurofodina, seeing that she beat him when they met
in the Craven Plate a fortnight ago, and was beaten
only half a length by the improved Malt King and
Comedy King last Saturday. With onlv Bst. 51b. to
carry, she should be in the front rank from the start
of the Caulfield Cup. Her second in the Metropoli-
tan Stakes proves her fairly capable of going the
whole distance in fast time.
* * * *
One of the most sudden events that ever
happened to a great financial institution in these
parts was the stoppage, a few days ago, by the
Postmaster-General, of the correspondence of the
Commercial Bank of Tasmania. The event took
place under the anti-gambling laws, by reason of the
business which the Commercial of Tas. does for
“Tattersall.” Australia can now congratulate itself
on having done the pious act, after a wholesale
fashion, and snuffled on a continental scale.
Records, like men and women, run in all
shapes. At a recent motor-bike petrol consumption
trial at Glasgow, Scotland, a 34 h.p. engine, weigh-
ing under 3121b5., ran 277 miles to a gallon of
petrol.
* * » *
The wind-up of Adelaide football —which
lingered longer than any other on this continent —-
was one more blow to the unkillable brigade which
thinks that all Australian sport is “arranged” in ad-
vance. West Adelaide, unbeaten all winter, had gone
a bit stale at the end, and lost two matches. In the
so-called final. West beat Port, but the latter had a
rieht of challenge, and the clever ones were sure
Port had lost on purpose to make an extra match.
They took for granted that Port could win whenever
it wanted to. The absolute final showed that Port
couldn’t. It was a great game—anybody’s game—
but West got a goal two minutes from time, and
finished five points ahead. Essendon, premier club of
Melbourne, was waiting to play the winners, and that
encounter took place on Labor Day. West kicked a
trifle the straighter, and won by three points this
time (8-9 to 7-12). So South Aus. holds the Club as
well as the State premiership under Australian rules.
* * * »
The 20th annual tournament of the Strath-
field Lawn Tennis Club continued on Saturday. The
doings at Strathfield are important, as the open events
there decide the metropolitan championships of Syd-
ney. The disturbance on Saturday was the destina-
tion of the Doubles Championship for 1911-12 ; and
“’Orrie” Rice and E. D. L. Jones proved to be the
recipients. This was expected, but Poidevin and
Sayers made a bigger fight than was anticipated, and
the winners failed to show the form expected. Still,
they showed enough. The Singles Championship will
be played off next Saturday between Horace Rice and
Dr. Sharp. A. B. Jones and Miss D. Gordon make a
fine combination. They have worked their way to the
final of the Mixed Doubles Championship, and on
form should be able to wipe out the two other
couples who are still in, although H. Rice and Mrs.
Ford will prove a tough proposition. This particular
Rice is never easily chewed.
The second round of Sydney first-grade
cricket saw Balmain, the suburb all tattered and
torn, inflict a crushing defeat on Paddington by four
wickets and 23 runs on the first innings. Noble was
not available to his club on Saturday last, and it
missed him badly with the leather. Folkard fell on
the Paddington bowlers and smote them with the
jawbone of the bat for 202, not out, thus completely
nullifying Noble’s brilliant score of 118 the previous
Saturday. Altogether, Balmain totted up 319 for six
wickets, and provided no end of a surprise. Sydney
left 163 for North Sydney to eclipse, and when R. V.
Minnett had whooped up 109 on his own account,
North Sydney declared with 278 for six wickets, thus
winning by 115. In spite of the deadly bowling of
Cotter, Glebe failed miserably against University,
which had left 353 lingering on the board. Glebe
could scrape up only 208, so lost by the ugly margin
of 145 —a bad first innings beating. Middle Harbor’s
match against Redfern was a sad example of coming
too late. Redfern won by a margin of 105 on the
first innings. When it was too late M.H. got going,
and one Gee cut loose in the second innings and made
134, while the rest of the side added 162. But in the
first innings Middle Harbor had been able to make
only 79, and by that it fell. Petersham, which had
accumulated 189 on the previous Saturday, was easily
outclassed by Central Cumberland with 311 for the
loss of seven wickets; and of this formidable score no
less than 106 were contributed by E. F. Waddy, who
hits like his name. The close thing of the round was
the mediopre fight between Burwood and Gordon.
Burwood managed to just struggle through with a
margin of 17 —183 to 166. The bowling honors went
to Cotter, Hazlitt and Folkard. Cotter took seven
University wickets for 61. Hazlitt laid out four
Petersham timber-stacks for 31. Folkard battered six
Paddington stumps for 77. The result of the round is
to place Central Cumberland on top with five compe-
tition points, while University, Waverley, Redfern and
Balmain are one point behind. The rest are nowhere.
* * * *
The Australian Board of Control for In-
ternatiorial Cricket foregathered in Melbourne on Fri-
day last, and proceeded to do things with energy.
Clem Hill was appointed captain of the Australian
XI, and Clem Hill, P. A. McAlister and F. A. Ire-
dale were chosen as selectors. Victor Trumper, of
N.S.W., and Hugh Trumble, of Victoria, were also
nominated. The whole of the N.S.W. delegates, also
two Victorians, and the Queensland and Tasmanian
men jumped on Trumper with both feet, and the
“Champagne of Cricket” will probably have to be
content with the job of vice-captain of the XI.
Players in test matches are to be “allowed” £25 per
match and 12s. 6d. per day beer money, although
there is no obligation to spend the whole 12s. 6d. on
froth. The Board decided to recommend the admis-
sion of Westralia to the cricket fold, outvoting the
N.S.W. delegates on the subject; but it is an under-
stood thing that N.S.W. Association is not likely to
withdraw its veto over a trifle like that. Anything
not settled by the Board is to be left to the juris-
diction of Clem Hill and Warner.
* * * *
The stand that the alleged 20-year-old boy
Lester made against the experienced veteran McVea
moved a crowd of his Australian admirers to com-
mission the cunning workmen, Kerr Bros., to make
unto him a diamond-studded medal. The gew-gaw
was duly presented to the rising “Hope” at Paris
House (Sydney) on Monday night, and among those
who drank Lester’s health were the great Slapin-
tosh himself; Meagher, of the Assembly ; McVea, of
the Stoush, who had so successfully put a head op
Lester; Minahan, M.L.A.; and the ancient warrior
Larry Foley. Larry was in great form, and retailed
many reminiscences. When the company had
finished pouring olive oil over where the ammonia
had splashed, Lester rose to reply. He choked
several times, and finally managed to explain that
the Australian sports were the greatest of their
kind and kindred on earth. It was a great night,
and they had a good time.
T. Carrol v. E. Mack, a lightweight engage-
ment, occupied the ring at Melbourne Athletic Club, the
other evening, and raged with spirit for six rounds. The
encounter brings Carrol into position as a busy dis-
tributor of trouble, with a great power for evil in
his rapid left hand. He placed his punches with
artistic neatness and a judicial air that gratified the
multitude. Mack stood up to his trouble, and tried
hard and gamely; but Carrol is unlike the Dutch, in
taking too little and giving too much. He won in
six rounds. Mack’s party threw the serviette at the
clouds while its man was in the chair, trying vainly
to recall the circumstances of the case.
“Bandsman” Rice, light heavyweight and
a “towny” of George Rex, celebrated his recent arri-
val in this country by cordially belting a local resi-
dent named Jack Howard on Saturday night, in
Slapintosh’s Stoush Academy, Rushcutter’s Bay,
Sydney. Rice was above Howard’s class altogether
and, but fot a desire to make a show of the
local man, or rotten ring-craft, he could have
finished the business in half the time he actually
took over it. There was nothing in the fight, or
whatever it was, after the fifth round, that called
for more than sustained pressure upon an opening.
But Rice allowed chance after chance to go untaken,
even with his seconds pleading with him to “follow
up.” In the 10th round he did follow up, after
landing Howard a holy smite, and the beginning of
next round was the end of the fight. Howard’s
seconds reluctantly flew the “wipe” to save a knock-
out. Howard was a sad, sad representative of this
land of mountain solitude, sun-kissed politicians,
long-sleevers and other great natural resources. He
fought with cow-like intelligence along the lines of
the parcels-mail system, each of the despatches being
telegraphed well in advance. After the fifth round,
few of them reached their intended destination. The
ISriton works with both hands, and seems to be
imbued with the belief that the Lord loveth a cheer-
ful giver. It should be interesting to be around
when he argues the point with Dave Smith.
* * * *
N.S.W. League of Swimmers, the rebel
crowd which swims for open orders instead of solid
hardware, held its annual meeting last Saturday
night, and whooped some. Six new clubs were said to
have been formed and affiliated with the League, and
parties of swimmers had roamed the continent and
had a good time in various places, holding carnivals
and giving exhibitions. Quite a number of “cham-
pionships of the State” are reported to have been
won, and generally there was a ring of prosperity
about the new concern which displeases the Associa-
tion barracker muchly. The League has managed to
annex some good swimmers in George Read, O. Dick-
man, and that graceful water-nymph, Miss Tate, and
there seems but little doubt it has come to stay. The
swimming season opened on Saturday, and most of the
clubs, League and Amateur, held competitions. But
it was merely a preliminary dip, and it will be a
week or two before the water-sprite is really on the
job.
* * * *
A fresh, not to say rather stiffish, nor’-
east breeze careered over and around Sydney on Satur-
day, and the open boats on both Port Jackson and
Botany Bay had a festive time of it. It was the
opening day of the Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron;
an annual affair that, somehow, always reminds one
of a hen taking a brood of ducklings for their first
swim. The charming club grounds at Carrabella were
thronged by a gay and debonair crowd in which
ladies largely predominated. Yachts were invisible,
but there were races for sailing skiffs and 10ft. and
6ft. dinghies. The real business of the day was frill
and frivolity, the sea dogs not having got their sea
legs yet.
Sydney Sailing Club was on the warpath, how-
ever, and 17 boats engaged in a tussle that had a
real Roman flavor about it. Sails were burst, and
boats were capsized or swamped. Only 10 reached the
lightship, where they rounded for home. Two more
turned turtle later on, and of the gallant fleet that
set out only seven struggled back. For the rest, “the
wind had blown them all away,” as Villon sang of
something of the sort. The winner turned out to be
Sunny South, skippered by Mr. Keddie, who had won
the previous Saturday’s race. He had three minutes
handicap, and was only seriously threatened by the
beautiful Australian, skippered by that past master,
Mr. Christian Webb, which ran into second place.
Perfectly rigged and excellently handled, Sunny South
deserved its win.
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. is abroad
again, and held a mild burst of speed on Saturday, in
the shape of a general handicap over four miles.
But it was only a baby affair, and the little winner,
Monettat, coughed home in 17min. 45sec. Motor-
boating is losing its punch in Sydney, since Relph,
Arthur Davies, George Whatmore and other arch-
angels of speed gave up the game. We miss the long
procession of dark sea-horses the Whatmore was for
ever springing, or going to spring, on a bewildered
Harbor.
* * * *
Maorilander Jack Arnst failed to make a
decent showing against Albany, the Englishman, on
the Thames last week. Although “big Jack” has been
in the boat a couple of years now, and is understood
'to have the animal at his fingers’ ends, so to speak,
he has shown no signs of eclipsing brother Dick, or
filching his championship. John would probably
have made more money and glory had he stuck to
his trusty wheel.
One reason why France makes such strides
in aviation is that the French recognise its possibili-
ties in the event of war, and the people shell out
their good hard brass to encourage the art, sport or
whatever one likes to call it. The well-known French
tyre people, Michelin and Cie, recently passed along
150,000 francs to be distributed in four prizes to
assist in deciding whether aeroplanes can blow up
warships ; wreck railway bridges, arsenals and maga-
zines ; dismount guns, and prevent troops mobilising.
And these prizes are reserved solely for French civil
and military
ALMOST BLIND.
SPOTS BEFORE THE EYES.
CAUSED BY LIVER DISORDERS.
Mr. Tom Holt, whose remarkable state-
ment is published below, is another example
of what Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
done for one who has suffered from that
most common trouble, “A Liver.” Mr. Holt
is an old resident and property holder of
Bondi Junction, and now living at 55 Stan-
ley Street, Sydney, N.S.W., and his state-
ment is a voluntary
Mr. Tom Holt.
(From a photo.)
one and purely an ex-
pression of gratitude
for the benefit he has
derived from taking
Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. He tried
doctors and hospital
treatment to no avail,
and actually states
that these Pills saved
his life. He has been
taking them now for
ten years, and still
continues to recom-
mend them.
“W i t h o u t Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills I don’t know
what would become
of me. For a number of years I have suf-
fered with a sluggish liver, which produced
constipation to such an extent that some-
times I have gone for days without a move-
ment of the bowels. Spots appeared float-
ing before my eyes, and I almost went
blind, and got so bad that I went to the hos-
pital as an outdoor patient. They treated
me for my eyes, but with no result- —in fact,
I became worse. Someone told me my blind-
ness was due to liver trouble, and recom-
mended Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which
I began using with the most gratifying re-
sults. In a short time my sight was as good
as ever, and the spots which had been float-
ing in the air were gone, to my great relief.
I was in such a condition that work was
impossible, because I was sleepy and drowsy
all the time, with no energy to do anything.
This was ten years ago, and I have con-
tinued the use of the Pills ever since, taking
two or three as I need them. I believe they
saved my life, and I consider them a mosr
valuable medicine. From to time 1
have been persuaded to try other remedies,
but I never got the benefit I received from
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. In fact, the
other medicines are of no use. I am an old
resident of Bondi Junction, and now
living at 55 Stanley Street, Sydney, am well
known, and have much pleasure in making
this statement, which is voluntarily given,
and will always be ready to personally con-
firm same.
(Signed) “TOM HOLT.”
Mr. Holt’s trouble was Liver, which upset
the whole system of digestion and nutrition.
Many people are suffering from defective
eyesight due to this cause, and if they put
the Liver right they would have no need to
trouble with glasses. Defective eyesight is
only one of the many effects of a sluggish
liver, which upsets the whole system, caus-
ing Indigestion, Biliousness, Constipation
and the hundred and one other complaints
that accompany them.


MEN
tor
STYLE 104*
glace kid
Balmoral,
STYLE 105
glace kid
Blucher
Balmoral
HL y* .
Absorbent Canvds lg-
ophd Leather
Cork Filled -—OS
ni/nosa barA tanned
HYOLL To£
MYPLL TOE
u-4 HALF SIZES
•; HALF 5/Z^s
is
m L FOR
STYLE B®K
And our nearest dealer to
YOU
RICHMOND Ivc.
LJ.H
NEW EDISON
Records for November
THE EDISON - Phonograph is new with every Record. Do not
torget to buy records. Do not let your Edison Phono-
graph grow stale. When you have heard the old music
enough, go to an Edison store and hear the new music. Every time
you buy a new lot of Records it is just the same as if you had bought
the Phonograph for the first time.
The new Edison Records for November are now ready at all
dealers. The list is an exceptionally fine one, embracing a large
range of subjects, and including the latest efforts of the most success-
ful artists.
Go to the nearest dealer’s and hear these Records for yourself.
We can give you the address if you do not know it, and will also send
latest lists of Phonographs and Records free on request.
AMBEROL RECORDS FOR NOVEMBER
(FOUR-MINUTE).
666 My Southern Rose. .Elizabeth Spencer
667 —I Love the Name of Mary
„„„ _ . Frank X. Doyle
bba —Put \ our Arms Around Me, Honey
Jones and Chorus
671 — Officer of the Day” and “The Hur-
ricane” .... . Two-Steps (for danc-
ing) National Promenade Band
6i2 My Cavalier (Waltz) (for Dancing)
National Promenade Band
6/s—Larry O’Gaff Medley (Violin Solo)
„ . , Charles D’Almaine
6/6—All Aboard for Blanket Bay
fi-io r r, Anthony and Harrison
—I Don t Believe You
Ada Jones and Billy Murray
679 Three Quotations: No. 1, The King of
J™’’,’ etc Sousa’s Band
680— Tell Mother I’ll Be There
Harrison and Edison Mixed Q’tette
681— Rock Me to Sleep, Mother
fio-j r r , ~ Will Oakland
bod The Dream Melody Intermezzo—
Naughty Marietta”.. Herbert and
Orchestra
«?t~~T Iy , Ain Countrie Irving Gillette
685 Jack and Jill Medley Nursery
Rhymes .. Empire Vaudeville Co.
686—Young America Polka (Xylophone
Solo) Daab
687 Bonnie Doon, Ye Banks and Braes
Marie Narelle
688-
689-
12289-
12290-
12291-
12292-
12293-
12294-
12296-
—Winter Song .. Knickerbocker Q’tette
-Medley of French-Canadian Airs
Edison Concert Band
-The Chocolate Soldier
National Military Band
-Don’t Go Down in the Mine, Dad
_ , Stanley liirkby
-Dolores Waltz (Concertina Solo)
T . , Alexander Prince
-Yachting t Will Evans
-An Old Garden . . Violet Oppenshaw
-T-R-O-U-B-L-E .... Arthur Osmond
-Hi, Hi, Hi, Mr. McKie.. Florrie Forde
GRAND OPERA AMBEROL.
30041—Pagliacei—Prologo (Sung in Italian)
Carlo Galeffii (Baritone)
30042 Forza del Destino—O tu che in seno
agli angeli (Thou Heavenly One)
(Sung in Italian) Carlo Albani
(Tenor)
30043—11 Trovatore—ll Balen (The Tempest
of the Heart) (Sung in Italian)
___„ Carlo Galeffi (Baritone)
35019 Girofle-Girofla Brindisi (Sung in
French) . . Blanche Arral (Soprano)
40042 Manon—Le Reve (Sung in French)
Karl Jorn (Tenor)
STANDARD RECORDS FOR NOVEMBER
(TWO-MINUTE).
10492—Silver Bell
i n / Q , „ Ada Jones and Billy Murray
10494—Honeymooning, Honey in Bombay
10495__n„ Hyr n “ That Girl” Quartette
10495—0 n Mobile Day .. Oakland Quartette
14048—Ginger, You’re Balmy
Arthur Osmond
14049—Strauss March .. National Mil. Band
14050—Keeping Bees Will Evans
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
(Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
pg
'll
_____
The old way
of drawing two measured lines
at right angles takes twelve dis-
tinct operations.
The Universal
Drafting Machine
without one iota of effort or
attention on your part—absorbs
this work in two movements.
It eliminates the drudgery,
and enables the draftsman to
put in his lines as fast as he can
think them out; easily effecting
a saving of time of from 25 to
50 per cent.
The Victorian Railways and
leading Mining and Engineering
Companies find THE UNI-
VERSAL DRAFTING MA-
CHINE a time-saving neces-
sity. Will it help you?
Thos. McPherson s Son,
554-566 S 582-588 Collins Stmt,
MELBOURNE.
Make
your
own
Cigarette
\t\T\
twice V
as good#
CIGARETTE
PAPER
and VM\ttST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. 255? George Sf Sydney
HESS°PH°NE
THE
Natural Talking
Machines.
From £3 ‘0 £27 10/-
FAVORITE EVS
RECORDS
3/-
each.
- each.
Needles 9d., 1/-, 1/3,1/6 per box.
PATHS ATTACHMENTS.
Sound Boxes ... 17/6 each
Sapphires ... 2/6 „
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Write to us or our Agents—
J. HESS & CO.,
199 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Yon get more Fuel Niles
out of
SHELL
than out of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY .
Lovers of Good footwear
Always find the greatest satisfaction in wearine a
pair of Rigney Shoes.
Not only do Rigney Shoes enjoy a popularity for
comfort, but they are recognised by the well-dressed
men as the shoes that cannot be approached for
style, quality and elegance.
_ The Shoe illustrated is a Choice Tan Russian Calf
Oxford Shoe, Rack Counter, Circular Vamp, Perfora-
tions, Fine Stitched Welts, 23/6, 25/-. Also Dark
Tan Willow Calf Shoe, 18/6. In Lace Boots’ditto ;
also, Black, 21/-, 25/-. Postage 9d. extra.
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR CATALOG.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-
Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., Sydney
and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney
VO .V-i
1
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. F.
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
0. Rigney,
00 (double'O")
Old Orkney Whisky]
Have you tried
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS?
complaint Spiles?* 0 aTe e Na^uTe^ y own °isin 7 ° U SUFe a ? d , s P relief from the distressing
and proved worth. They are of the Greatest , con ?P oul jded wonderful herbs of known
entirely superseding all local applications, which, at Ijest affonl rebef a “ d internal piles >
long-handing Bcases 8 cases Tt’ harmless, and equally effective in either severe or
from the proprietors. Price, 3/ per box, post **" emistS and StorekeeperS ’ ° r he ordered direct
SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ANDREW MURPHY, LTD.,
Dept. S, 109 Regent St.
SYDNEY.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d


THE ASSORTMENT OF
DAINTY GIFTS IN
SILVERWARE AT A.
SAUNDERS’S JEWEL-
LERY PALACE IS
UNSURPASSED FOR
VARIETY, BEAUTY,
NOVELTY, AND
MODERATE PRICING.
GIFTS FOR EVERYBODY
AT
A. SAUNDERS
ALL SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS, EXCEPT CHINA.
IT IS ONLY BY LARGE
DIRECT BUYING
FROM THE FINEST
ENGLISH HOUSES
THAT WE ARE ABLE
TO OFFER YOU A 1
QUALITY AND
VALUE IN SILVER-
WARE FOR THE MOST
ORDINARY PRICES.
f§§|
■ ~ ■ . • - ■' | I
- , il?
■ 4
".*aaaa«aßs> w ~-'■
:iO/-
Solid Silver MANICURE SET, comprising Powder
Jar, Pair Scissors, Nail File, and Cuticle Knife, in
Silk-lined Morocco Case.
a
EMmfxmtMmMsrnmj' &
Tyi
£2/10/.
Solid Silver HAIRPIN BOX, Richly Embossed.
MAGNI-
FICENT
180-PAGE
SILVER-
PLATE
CATALOG
FREE.
15/6.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Fine Bristles.
12/6.
Gent’s SHAVING TIDY, Seal Leather,
Plain-domed Solid Silver Mounts.
mBSSm
10/6.
BEDROOM or TRAVELLING WATCH CASE,
Solid Silver, Morocco Covered, with Stand
and Handle. Including Watch, 15'.
4/6.
STUD BOX, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Hand-engraved.
PS
5/- Per Pair.
Art China Statuette
ORNAMENT, 7£in high.
5/6.
Ladies’ BELT BUCKLES, Pure Silver-
plated, “Bird” Design.
7/6.
Solid Silver-mounted HAIR COMB, in
Imitation Tortoiseshell.
THOUSANDS
OF NEW
IDEAS
IN
WEDDING
GIFTS.
15/6.
CHRISTENING CUP,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Richly Engraved,
“Fern” Design.
aw?
£2.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hand-engraved
CARD CASE, in Silk-lined Case.
5/6.
Real Pearl-shell TRINKET STAND,
Solid Silver Base.
WIN £650.
SEND FOR
AN 8-HOUR
ART UNION
TICKET.
WE
POST
THEM
FREE TO
ANY
ADDRESS.
25/-
Solid Silver HAND MIRROR, Hand-
somely Embossed, Full Size.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-plateil, Richly
Embossed, size sin x sin.
m
£5.
Complete GENT.’S CASE, containing Pair Finest
Quality Plain Concave Hair Brushes, Hat and Clothes
Brush, with Comb, in Double-lock Morocco Case.
PUFF JAR, Pure Silver-
mounted Top, Cut-glass,
Cherub Design, sin high
GLOVE MIRROR,
Pure Silver, Oxidised
“Cherub” or Iris
Design.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH and COMB, “Stork”
“Butterfly” Design, Handsomely Burnished, in Silk
lined Morocco Case.
SAFETY PIN BOX, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsome Safety Pin Top.
20/-
French Briar PIPE,
Pure Silver-mounts and
Screw, Straight or Bent
Amber Stem.
Gent’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSH, Richly Embossed, Long
Bristles.
S 5S
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Hand-embossed, Silver-drawn Bristles.
15/6.
SHAVING CUP, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Engraved, Highly Burnished,
Gilt Lined.
Pure Silver-mounted “Cherub”
Design BIRTHDAY BOOK.
E&S
■
15/6.
JUVENILE BRUSH SET, Solid
Silver, Handsomely Embossed,
Best Bristles, in Silk-lined Case.
PIN CUSHION and TRINKET BOX, Solid Silver-
mounted.
STS
«S«S!K
25
30/-
TOB\CCO BOX, Solid Silver, Richly Hand-engraved,
9ct Gold Shield, Self-acting Spring Lid.
Gent’s AUTOMATIC RAZOR
STROP, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed.
5/6.
Morocco PEGGY BAG, Extra Well Finished,
Silk Sewn, Strong Frame.
4/6.
New Art Copper PHOTO. FRAME, Mounted
oolia Oak, Ricaly Embossed.
Real Copper, Oxidised Finish.
JEWELLER/
*ltfCHaC lOckJ
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.813.815.817. GEORCE ST. (Opposite Railway SfaHon) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
3> SILVERSMITH
rONSULT//V£


The Ideal Australian Holiday Place.
1
zsssf^fvei.
Australi an^P s
the
NEW
SOUTH
WALES
%&ji ,s v
1 If , V A ' V
THE SUMMIT OF KOSCIUSKO.
Guests' are taken to the
Snowfiefds daily to indulge in the
Alpine sports of Tobogganing and Ski-
riding.
The Kosciusko Scenery is mag-
nificent. Inspiring panoramas of tree-
clad ranges, rugged peaks, and yawning
chasms, sweep from horizon to horizon.
The Trout Fisherman finds
lively sport in the snow-fed streams on
the uplands or round the foothills of the
Kosciusko Ridge.
“ The summer attractions of the unique Kosciusko
District only need to he known to draw visitors from every
corner of Australia
Great Snowdrifts linger on the Kosciusko ridge
through the hottest summer, making it the coolest spot
during that trying season.
The Rarefied Air of these Mountains breathes
health and revivification to tired systems and over-
wrought nerves.
The Summer Climate of Kosciusko is a reve-
lation. The normal conditions are bright sunny days
with bracing temperatures.
The Hotel Kosciusko —a palat’al edifice, and
well appointed—is an ideal retreat in the fastnesses of
the Hills.
I
'Jvs
isk
2aS
BETTS’ CAMP, NEAR THE SUMMIT OF KOSCIUSKO.
■VS.
m.
SMS
-'?r« ;c*. .
~' «-
m
■s
m
THE HOTEL KOSCIUSKO.
For Full Particulars as to Cost, Travel,
and Accomodation, Mail or Wire
to The ■---
NEW SOUTH WALES - - -
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CHALLIS HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
Tel. 2488 City.
E. RAYAENT, Acting Director. v "
AERATED WATERS
of the very best quality are produced with the
REGAL
THE REQAL Aerated Water Machine. 1011 Model.
at less than ONE
PENNY per dozen.
The most perfect and compact
machine ever offered for the use
of Hotelkeepers, Cafes, etc.
Write at once for Catalogues
and, Prices.
Sole Manufacturers:
Eckersky 8 Sons,
3 Bond Street, Sydney,
and Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA: Auld & Sons,
Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: L. Samson & Sons,
Fremantle.
Note:—As a warranty for the ex-
cellent quality of the aerated waters
produced by Eckersley’s machines,
we may mention that they are
used exclusively in the leading hos-
pitals in Sydney, Melbourne and
Wellington.
Protect Your Feet by wearing Patent Asbestos Socks.
m
m
-
B*fort Using.
No More Pains in the Feet. The Comfort Experienced
?i Asbestos Socks is Absolutely Marvellous.
sot>.5 ot >. Perspiring, Inflamed and Tender Feet. Corns,
Bunions and Bad Feet Prevented and Absolutely Cured
a ™ ear * n £ Patent Asbestos Socks, (soles).
I An Army Surgeon discovered that soldiers after marching suffered more from
soreness of the feet than from actual physical fatigue. After long study he
, that t lls 'J', as due t 0 the irritation set up by the smooth leather insoles of
r'n.i ° OtS- Tle Asbestos Socks, made, from impregnated asbestos with a
sugntly rough grained surface prevents the foot slipping inside, and walking is
thus less tiring Asbestos being a non-conductor the feet are kept
rom he variations caused bv hot or cold weather, a genuine joy
„, e * s ‘ l 'S to the tenderfooted. In fact the comfort experienced
in wearing these socks Is absolutely marvellous. Try a
pair at once. Satisfaction Guaranteed or money refunded.
r ® n ®w the feet of anyone who has to stand long or do much
3-“ ch as shop assistants, policemen, nurses, sailors,
soldiers, postmen, cyclists, athletes etc. Made in two qualities, 1 1- and
palr . Postage 2d pair extra. Six pairs either quality sent for price of
1 ts _ State size and name this paper,
universal Supply Co. 460 George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
Aftsr Using.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘Fruit salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stares everywhere.
ICILMA SHAMPOOS.
TOO MUCH or TOO LITTLE washing ruins the hair. The ICILMA shampoos allow
you to clean the hair WITH OR WITHOUT WETTING, just as your hair needs it
—a wet shampoo with ICILMA SHAMPOO SACHETS every two or three weeks,
and a dry shampoo with ICILMA HAIR POWDER whenever the hair is dull, dusty or
greasy, and wetting is inconvenient. Both ICILMA shampoos contain the wonderful
ICILMA elements which benefit and beautify the hair.
3d. Packet all Chemists and Stores.
Send 3d. Stamps and we will send you Post Free one to try.
ICILMA DEPOT, Dept. H, 139 York Street, Sydney.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(NINE NEW
TYPES).
m
OWSandfasrenerJ
Duoduioog m
uoap.ic
Each “Boomerang” Accordeon is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and cost but 255., 405., and 555. Those
we specially recommend are:—
No. 105 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, is of medium size,
black mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned English
STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW PRO-
TECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette ease, with lock and key, 30/-, post
free.
No. 108 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, large in size, black
polished mouldings, bellows fitted with patent nickel protectors,
encircling each individual rib of the bellows, and three inde-
pendent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted with instantaneous In-
THREE full sets of highly-tempered English
SI EEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness and quality
of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405., post free.
ALBERT (SI SON, 137-139 King; Street, Sydney.


Debility
banishetjT by
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
in an old lady of 70 who
had never expected to feel
any better. Her name is
Mrs. Louisa Small and
she writes from Avondale,
Church Street, Ryde, N.S. W.,
(sth July 1910) that:
"For nearly 7 years I had suffered jrom
general debility, and, as I
am 70 years old, I did not
expect ever to feel any better.
About 4 weeks ago, I decided
to take Scott’s Emulsion,
and after only two bottles I
feel quite strong and well.
Scott’s Emulsion is indeed
a very valuable medicine.
A dessertspoonful taken in a
small cup of hot milk at bedtime ensures
me a good night’s sleep. ”
Debility yields equally sure-
ly to Scott’s Emulsion
in persons of all ages. Your
age makes no difference;
the important thing to re-
member is that if you suffer
from debility, Scott’s will
banish it. And Scott’s
is the only emulsion which
can prove by world-wide
testimony that it CAN do
this. This CERTAINTY
should be worth to you many
times the price of Scott’s
Emulsion, so do not ask
for “ emulsion ” ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
OF
ANTI N EURASTHIN,
THE only known effective remedy for nervous
breakdown or exhaustion, will be sent to any
address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt
of 2d. in stamps to cover postage.
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells
must be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in
the form of tonics or sedatives, which give tempor-
ary relief, but cannot effect permanent improvement.
Antineurasthin is a
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD.
It cures by feeding the brain and nerve cells with
their natural food element, Lecithin, in an active
organic state, and is the only known means of
effectively doing this. Its value is fully demon-
strated by its rapid and permanent effect upon the
nervous system and health generally; sound natural
sleep, improved digestion, power of application to
work, concentration of thought, and sound vigorous
mentality.
Send full address, with twopence in stamps to
cover postage, to the Wholesale Distributor for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, 3 Eden’s
Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane, or branches,
194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9
to 15 Stock Exchange Buildings, Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle : 213 Watson’s Buildings, Auckland.*
The Initial Cost of a
‘SWAPf
Fountpen
is trifling compared with the life-
long satisfaction it affords. One
can’t use a “ Swan ” and after-
wards dispense with it.
Sold by all Stationers & Jewellers.
INSIST ON A "SWAN.”
Catalogue free from Makers.
MABIE, TODD S CO.
or JAS. A. BURKE
, (London),
(Wholesale
only),
15 Waltham Buildings,
24 Bond St., Sydney, N.S.W. [2
hmm
UID'U
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures tbe same
diseases ■without
inconvenience
In
48 hours. |
Each Capsale bean the name
BA P?A i£ .
m
I
COXTD.
KDB3BK
231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
AND ALL STATES
333
SPECIAL APPOmTHENT
HIS EXCELLENCY
(MRROR-GEUfRALj
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing t> of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at fd.
per pac.cet. VV hen you have sold the cards, return us our (is., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. Jty continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ op Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. \\ e are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not ma;e you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district, uur post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126 BOND ST., SYDNEY.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. Th'a organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
8 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 23/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
< sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
t sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb,
BEST
S 3»
QUALITY
Sharpe’s Sharp Castrating Knife
Made in SHEFFIELD by Expert Cutlers .
Cutting blades, 2| inches; Fleam, Picker and Tweezer;
Smooth Horn Handle, 3£ inches; 4/6 Post Free,
SATISFACTION or MONEY BACK.
Other designs, 2/6 to 4/6.
SHARPE <& SHARPE, IS Bridge Street, Sydney
WRITE
FOR
KNIFE
AND
VET.
LIST.
4/- in the £
DISCOUNT.
WE ARE TARING OFF ALL
ELECTRO-PLATE TABLE WEAR.
WE have been able to make special
arrangements with the greatest and
best Manufacturers of England to
sell their Electro-Silver Products at 20 per
cent. Discount off their English Wholesale
Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions
on all our Electro-plate Stock.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures'!
Cash. J
23 8 25 Hunter St.
5
Best Electro-plate on Hard White Metal, 13in. high. .£6 0 0
Less 20 per cent ~ •• • • 1 _ 0
£4 16 0
p^rcQl^
GUARD YOUR HOME AGAINST DISEASE.
Use Hycol, 18-20 times stronger than Carbolic Acid, and
Non-poisonous,
GET IT NOW.
Particulars from: —
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney.
7he MOST POWERS
• DISINFECTANT^
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of cl hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
L.F.J.: Don’t know. If it appeared at
all it was in the advertising columns. .. .5.8.: The
China squadron.... White Aus.: Any decent white
person of any nation can enter Australia. Any per-
son of any race who desires to enter the Common-
wealth may be required to “write not less than 50
words of a language prescribed by regulation” ; but
his dictation test “is not, and never has been, im-
iosed upon persons of European race” (Official
ycar Book, 1910). The test may be applied to
Ram Bux, of India, just as well as to Ah Sin, of
China... .J.L.: This paper wants to help Wakool
Crossing more than almost anything else in the
world; but it wants to know a bit more about the
matter before it can undertake to shove along a
railway to Wakool Crossing’s back d00r... .Berkeley:
Solomon Island notes very scattered and fragmentary.
D.M.: A gory thing with two dead men in it
and a dead dog ; and no expoundment of the wliyness
of the gore, and the two dead men, and the dead
dog.... Jack: Very conventional and stereotyped, and
we loathe remarks like: “Of medium height, there
was a very earnest look in his deep blue eyes.” Why
not: “Born of an old English family, he badly
needed his hair cut?” You recall that famous
sample of reporterese: “His name is Smith, but it is
thought he mav recover.”.. .G. 8.8.: George Stewart,
Glen Wood, Inverell (N.S.W.), writes that he was
shepherding for J. D. Aitken at Urana in 1852-3.
Possibly he is the man you wish to discover....
Literary: Can’t either remember or trace any Aus-
tralian production of Ibsen’s “Master Builder’ . ...
.303: No; Australia depends wholly on the lad.
There is no provision for the compulsory enrolment
of anybody who had his 17th birthday prior to last
New Year’s Day.... Fill: That story that
came from out Bourke way recently,” originally
came from Palestine, or thereabouts, somewhere about
the time the prophet Isaiah was remarking that the
Lord was “full of the burnt offerings of rams and the
fat of fed beasts; and delighted not in the blood of
bullocks, or of lambs, or of he-goats.” Which makes
it very old indeed. Other stories forwarded appear
to be about the same age or even older. . . - Cam:
Point about as obscure as a splinter in an elephant s
paw Slinger (M.L.): Tracings to hand. Sus-
pected them at first of being paragraphs. Have since
ascertained that they are copies of hieroglyphics,
bitten into the counter-lunch by a boozed Egyptian
actor about 700 b.c. Forwarded them on to him...
A.R. (V.): No use to us, and you haven’t gummed
on the homeward passage money.... Sad Cove: We
are standing at bay. Ebb immediately.... Kong:
Not a bad try. Too uneven. .. .W.H. (S.A.) : It de-
mands publicity:—
A MILD TRUTH.
There is the noise the din the roar
That we hear every day.
For that we hesitate no more
But tail upon our way
Oh! the great bustling routine
And craftsmen toiling eagerly
Oh ! toiler then with open screen
Fight for thy life and liberty
How sad the weird exniring wail
From hungry midst their daily toil
How sad the guys at pomp wassail
And thp weary sons of soil
When shall the race with shoddy science
And wantons with a title name
Cease their brotherly defiance
And repent of their shame
O’er pompous rot my heart annoys
Stil for that let the dav be done
A toiler meets a thousand joys
Where never they have one
Let the guys have acme wine
And pretendin' l- guys it too
I will strive for nobler mind
Some nobler work to do.
R.W.T.: Try a religious paper... .Bellerive: Herewith
your general notice to threepenny highwaymen: —
THE CADGER.
Give us a chew of tobacco mate
Or can you spare a bloke a Brown
Is the same old tale of the cadger bold
Whom mooches round the Town
When he score a tray he’ll smile with glee
And into the Orient pub he’ll steer
Where he greedily devour the counter Lunch
And sip a pint of Beer.
I’d give my last penny to a man
If crippled or broken down
But not to the lazy cadger bold
Whom mooches round the Town.
Claymore: Not enough edge on it S.E.:
(M.L.) : “Canvassers” gently repulsed J.H.S.:
Afraid we can’t buy that dog from y0u....J.H.
(V.): No points about it 1 Wonder: So do we.
Three verses :
What good is life?
Do not our sorrows outweigh our joys
From the time we first break our toys
Till toothless age
When in senile rage
We bury the last of the girls and boys.
Oh! what is life ?
Why do we live?
Is it habit or is it the dread
Which now and then comes into our head
Perhaps when glad
Perhaps when sad
Of what will happen when we are dead.
Oh! why do we live ?
What is death?
Some say one thing and some another
Christian this and Heathen the other
Always at blows
But neither knows
Any more than did their mother
Oh~! what is death?
. ...D.S. (Sydney): Unsuitable... .lI.D. (V.): Yes,
they are suitable for insertion —in the basket. . .
E.C.H.: Very mild humor. You might find a corner
for it elsewhere. .. .R.P.: “The Girl with the Hot
Stuff Sox” didn’t keep her appointment... .B-R S.:
Petition disallowed G.D.L.: Careful and dull
N.F.: Lyric fluttered into the wicker abyss
G.A.G.: Not much in the idea, and the versecraft is
patchy. .. .Armis: What is the minimum amount of
beer on which a man can support existence ?. .. .
R.N.C. (V.) : Can’t scramble in. Might have arrived
with the aid of a fire-escape H.G.: Poem has no
punch. A fine text wasted G.H.P.: Confess, now,
that you have been killing Time! Wielded by a
strong arm, this poem is heavy enough to knock out
anyone. Absolutely refuse to buy the weapon from
you. Better throw it in the river. .. .Coff: Coffined.
... .D.E.P.: None of this batch. .. .Cess: Posted
missing M.A.S.: Yes, it’s a dead loss. .. .Exile:
Verses make no appeal. Always glad to consider
paragraphs. .. .J.0.D.: A good theme, but the hand-
ling is weak.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
C.D.: If it’s original it’s very promising, and you
ought to get instruction —but not by correspondence.
.. Cootapatamba: We print those old jokes on purpose.
Hundreds of subscribers would die of melancholia —
which would mean that we would die of starvation
—if we didn’t give them an occasional chance of
telling us that we ought to be ashamed of ourselves.
V.A.L.: Bumped out with a bump like the Day
of Judgment... .C. Cater: Better try to sell that
very bad drawing to the very bad paper which it is
apparently intended to advertise. What made you
think of plastering its advt. on our wall ?. Banks:
That “six months” gag was devised by a Bulletin
artist, who attached a good picture to it. You
blandly take the gag out of this paper and try to
sell it back to us with a very bad picture attached.


NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
THE
(RECIS
*
oh:c?c
TFRED)
S/ cwm^
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C?„
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
crfl23'2*«Sl
m
•IK#
Sfl
FIDELITAS
fe*® r
' mx*
-j£V * Z
Pill
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable lrom all leading establishments
Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRaH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68 h PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
■marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
CHALMERS CARS
ACKNOWLEDGE NO COMPETITOR.
1912 MODELS and PRICES—
30=36 H.P. New Model, 4-speed gear—self starter (air
pressure)—36-inch wheels—long stroke motor. Fully equipped
with hood, screen, five lamps, generator, horn, tools, jack, etc.,
20=30 H.P. Touring Car or Torpedo, unaltered for 1912.
This is the car of which we have sold 60 odd since Christmas.
Fully equipped as above.
20=30 H.P. Torpedo, 2»seater same construction as touring
car, except 11 inches shorter in the wheelbase.
Fully equipped as above.
SEND FOR CATALOG. -«
£,600
FULLY EQUIPPED.
£4 7 5
FULLY EQUIPPED.
£445
FULLY EQUIPPED.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
(WE GUARANTEE SERVICE).
CHALMERS THOMAS EMPIRE,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
aMSAMOf^,.
%
"'Sabe war* 1 *
and Chemists,
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
The World’s Standari
Valveless Engine.
Careful consideration of the prices of the FERRO
Engine will readily convince intending purchasers
that this outfit brings within their reach a plant
that has hitherto been beyond the “pocket” of many
would-be buyers. At the same time, we would like
to impress upon all that, although the Plant is low
in price, it is NOT LOW IN QUALITY. We assert,
without hesitation, that there is NOT A BETTER
ENGINE MADE than the FERRO. The low price
is accounted for by the enormous output and the per-
fect organisation of the Ferro Co., combined with
the fact that the design of FERRO Engine omits a
number of parts necessary in ordinary Oil Engines.
In all fifteen parts per cylinder are eliminated,
and all of them parts which call for greatest ac-
curacy in design and workmanship. It is evident,
therefore, that a FERRO Engine can be made of
highest class materials at a LOWER PRICE than a
Valve Operated Engine using the same grade of
material—-which few manufacturers attempt.
It must also be borne in mind that the failure of
any one of the fifteen parts mentioned will throw
the Engine out of business until it is replaced, and
the FERRO has fifteen less chances of stopping when
there is work to be done.
Don’t forget this: TIME IS MONEY.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, SJ, 7£, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17, 25 H.P.
FERRO AGENTS:
Hall Bros., Druitt St, SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St,, PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garratt, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H.T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moore. APIA, SAMOA.
%
‘c?
Prizes Value
IN THE
8-HOUR
£3OOO
ART UNION
and SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
Drawn October 28,1911.
Ist Prize, value £650.
3rd Prize, value £2OO.
2nd Prize, value £350.
And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S.W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades-Hail, Sydney.
THE CAUSE OF TOOTH
DECAY IS “ACID i
MOUTH.”
THE Acid is Lactic
Acid, present in
most months,
and caused b.v fer-
menting food par-
ticles. It gradually
eats throng h t.he
enamel of the
teeth.
#
<
/ PEBECO
TOOTH
PASTE
overcomes
Acid Mouth.
While Pebeco
cleans the teeth
and keeps them
white, it over-
comes soft, bleeding
gums and maintains
the mouth in a
healthy condi-
tion. It is a soft,
smooth paste,
pleasant to the
taste, and valuable
in overcoming un-
pleasant breath.
G. ARNOLD, 6 o ' Coi ' l ' dls, - w “‘ f
(Wholesale Only).
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S I
iree Witches
ci*arbtt«s
mrrn
10
for
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
* send for our Trade Lists.
X Big G X
/ Borated Goldenseal \
g Compound \
9 A safe and simple remedy for \
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself mnm^m
h Treatlsewlthjach bottle |
V or mailed on request.
\He Enni Chemical Co. J
X. Cinrinnati, Ohio, W
O.S.A. >//\
op
•5U<?
The Celebrated
French-Russian
Ointment and
Cure for Eczema
in all its forms,
Nettle-rash, Erysipelas,
and all Chronic Skin
Diseases and Eruptions.
A certain, quick cure in even the
worst cases.
PRICE 6/6 A POT ; FOUR POTS, 25/-
These Remedies will be sent post free on receipt
of amount by THE PETERS MEDICINE CO., Pall
Mall, Bendigo, VICTORIA (Sole Commonwealth
Agents).
RADI-OLKJ
TROUCHETS
r DIURETIC
KIDM&BMDM
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE /7/aP
OF THE Wfy
URINARY \y k
L ORGANS
Obramnb/e an Chemists
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID J
TONIC J,


THIRTY YEARS
OF DISFIGURING
ECZEMA CURED
“Ever sinch I was a little<girl, thirty years
ago, I lia<} suffered tortufes from eczema in
one of its worst forms. The disease runs in
my family, \and mine was of a scaly and
most disfiguring kind. The eczema formed
in round rings, and then scales all over
V
thy face- and limbs. I
have been smothered
from head to foot. 1 was
born in Leamington,
which is famous for its
sulphur baths and pump
waters, and one would
think that after taking
. the treatment there reg-
ularly as I did, the
disease would long ago
have been cured, but it
was not. I attended the
Hospital for years
and years, so you will see
I gave it a fair trial.
Everyone in the town knew of my case. My
face was disfigured very badly. A doctor
told me that I should never get rid of it. I
spent pounds in doctors' bills, and 1 attended
several hospitals, but nothing did ipe any
good.
“Then one day an uncle of mine recom-
mended the Cuticura Remedies. I took his
advice, and commenced to use the Cuticura
Soap. To my astonishment an improvement
at once set in, and my hair, which had been a
complete mass of scales and scurf, soon
began to look in splendid condition. Then
1 bought a box of Cuticura Ointment, and
this cleared my skin wonderfully. In a few
weeks' time all traces of the scaly eruptions
had completely disappeared. Now my skin
is clear and healthy, and thanks to the Cuti-
cura Remedies I am completely cured of
eczema. All my neighbours were astounded;
they knew what a sight I was, and the manner
of my cure by Cuticura Remedies was nothing
short of a marvel. The Cuticura Remedies
are worth their weight in gold, and one tablet
of Cuticura Soap goes further than four cakes
of cheaper soaps.” (Signed) Mrs. Butler, 17,
Francis Rd., The Cotterride, King’s Norton,
Birmingham, England, July 26, 1910.
Cuticura Remedies are sold everywhere.
Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W. t
fora liberal trial box of Cuticura Ointment
and 32-page book on the skin.
r
'AS
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ’’ will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
har.mless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. S. AS lon’s (u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and:is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Rat
Death
a Reliable Rat Destroyer
Prepared from formula supplied
by DR. BURNETT HAM.
Price | /
sari/
per large
Tin.
Very Attractive and Always Fatal to BATS and MICE.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING AGENT—
DUERDIN S SAINSBURY, MELBOURNE.
9
Before
HARES
COMPOUND
will grow a LUXURIANT
MOUSTACHE, and cover
Bald Patches when all else
fail 3.
Price, S/6 Post Free.
After
London Specialities Ap'ency,
44 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
IDEAL TONIC
When your head is dull and heavy, your tongue furred, your
bowels costive, when you feel done-up and good-for-nothine
FOR THE
STOMACH
AND LIVER
have no appetite, no energy, no
interest, no ambition, your stomach
and liver are out of order. But
Mother Seigel’s Syrup will set you
right. It will clear your head and
clean your tongue, renew your appetite, tone up your stomach,
stimulate the action of your bowels, make food nourish you,
and give you new strength, new energy, new life.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP
TAKE IT DAILY AFTER MEALS.
“Aberdeen”
AS APPLIED TO
Tarpaulins
“ABERDEEN,” as applied to Tar-
paulins, Water Bags, Tents, etc., is
merely a short way of saying “ALL
THAT IS STRONGEST, MOST DE-
PENDABLE, RELIABLE AND
BEST.” “Aberdeen” always means
exactly this. If you want all the
above, then you want “ABERDEEN” !
There’s solid Value in “ABERDEEN ”
goods, and if unobtainable locally, send
for Price List.
Smith, Copeland & Co. Ltd
204=6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
• 'Xn //((
at
AGENTS—
VICTORIA: J. Bartram & Son,
King Street, MELBOURNE.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. Whiting,
Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND : H. I. H. Ross,
Edward Street, BRISBANE.
TASMANIA : Seabrook & Neal,
Collins Street, HOBART.
a
“Another, please”
Yes, you can give the children another and yet another—*
“ Skippers ” are so good for them. The phosphorus in the
fish is food for bone and brain ; the genuine olive oil is
nourishment for the nerves. Wherever there are children
there’s sure to be a demand for
Skipper Sardines
Sole Proprietors : ANGUS WATSON & Co., Newcastle-on-Tyne, England.
“Keep smiling—there’s always Skipper Sardines ”
sm? "i
P
Peter Pen says “Come and
see the Pen that fills itself.”
“ Put it in, pull and push—and the deed is done.
“ Then the pen is full and ready to write. I know—it’s
the Pen I own, and Peter Pen knows Pens.
“It is simple, you see. No filler or squirt.
“The Pen is all you need, for it fills itself.
“And it cannot leak. Oh, yes, it’s quite
true. It can’t—l know—take my
word it’s so
“Or much better still —if you like a
good Pen - one that will write well
without splutter or scratch get
the British-made
Qnoto
Self-Filling - * JpfWftt
Safely Fountain M 'wll
Prices 12/- and upwards, of all stationers
jewellers, and stores.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to Thos. de la Hue & Co ,
Ltd., 315, Bunhill Row, London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Representative,
Norman Baker, 50 York St., Sydney.
IMPORTANT.— For those who require a
larger pen with a very flexible nib, a
special model—the new “G”—has been
put On the market. It is exceptional
value lor the money. Trv this new “G”
at your stationer’s
Ask your Stationer for ONOTO INK—
best for fountain and all other pens.
*
V
Food
FOR INFANTS , INVALIDS AND THE AGED .
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible particles. “ The Lancet , describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
{Fjenger’s Food is s->!d in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
822
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“The Hack”: As one who had eight years’ experi-
ence as a cash newsagent, let me put my oar into
the argument between “Huffin-Guffin” (B. 3/8/’ll)
and “Billy Mug” (B. 31/8/’ll), regarding what the
former calls “paper-boy slavery.” As a start,
“Huffin' 1 acknowledges that his attention was first
drawn to the matter through his paper arriving late.
It would be interesting to know what time he ex-
pected it. Is he one of those who promote the
“slavery” he denounces, by insisting on his paper
being on his doorstep at, or before, daybreak ?
“Muffin” is, I believe, not making the most of his
case when he cites the agents’ profit at 3d. per dozen.
This is the profit allowed “cash” agents; but, I
understand, the “authorised” agents receive, some 4d.
and others sd. per dozen, the amounts varying with
their sales. I may be mistaken in this, as the
Authorised Newsagents’ Association keeps its secrets
closely ; but my informant was a business-man, who
had an “authorised” agency for sale. If this be so,
they should certainly pay better wages than they
do. I can bear out “Billy Mug,” however, in saying
that, with a profit of 3d. per dozen, a newsagent can-
not pay his boys more than, at most, 3s. 6d. per
week, nor, considering the nature of the work, and
that the boys are only engaged in it for about an hour
per day, are they badly paid at this rate, in com-
parison with those in other callings. If, after allow-
ing for rent, carriage, bad debts (unavoidable in
this trade), and dishonesty and carelessness of the
“slaves” championed by “Guffin,” he can pay better
wages, and make more than a bare living for him-
self, I’ll award him the Australian .boss financier’s
belt with pleasure. For my part, I never once
cleared £1 per week on my daily papers (the re-
strictions hedging a “cash” agent make it next to
impossible for him to supply more than 200 cus-
tomers). I wouldn’t recommend the newsagency busi-
ness to my worst enemy.
* * * *
“J.G.”: Re the Maffra (Vic.) beet sugar factory,
which The Bulletin (31/8/’ll) tipped as likely to
be one of the best of the Weary Government’s So-
cialistic ventures. I’m waiting for the howl of pro-
test from the Anti-Sosh cockies who have been asked
to be parties to this accursed Socialism. John
Weary has actually had the audacity to invite these
right-minded men, the backbone of" the country, to
accept, free of cost, enough sugar beet seed to plant
half an acre of land; also, free of charge, full in-
structions-as to culture. Further, the unholy scheme
provides that when the beets have been grown, they
will be hauled over the Sosh railways to the. Sosh
factory at Maffra, and a Sosh cheque will be paid
over with thanks. In fact, all that Private Enter-
prise has to do is to drop the seeds in the ground,
and Sosh will do the rest and pay for the privilege!
Of course, it can’t be done, as Anti-Sosh has re-
peatedly pointed out, and no doubt the eocliies are
reaching for the seed with both hands, for no other
reason than to prove to Sosh that it doesn’t know its
business.
“Sand Boy” : I’m satisfied. that the Commonwealth
Government has power to cater into business against
the Sugar Trust, and if there is nothing about the
power in the Constitution, it is because nothing is
required. The right to refine sufar is not a State
monopoly as law-making was previous to r ederauun ;
it is the ordinary right of the individual citizens,
or residents for that matter, and the. people as a
whole can exercise it in a corporate capacity if they
want to. The Commonwealth would merely have to
register as a corporation in Queensland, and conduct
its business in accordance with State laws, the same
as the C.S.R. Of course, it might be possible for a
State to amend its Company Law, so as to shut out
the Commonwealth; but that’s another matter. Al-
ready, the Commonwealth engages in trade, such as
the buying and selling of land, military stores, etc.
Generally it avoids open competition with traders,
but • not for a want of power to compete. Very
shortly the Australian Government will be trading
on a larger scale in connection with the Federal
capital and the Northern Territory. It will be
dealing extensively with land, and, probably, with
buildings, electric light, water supply and other
things. Also, it will be doing business in a big way
as a bank, and here it will be in direct competition
with private bankers. Some time ago it proposed
to build Commonwealth steamers to be run in the
English trade, and there was no suggestion of con-
stitutional difficulties. The most extraordinary
feature of the friction, caused by the C.S.R. mono-
poly, is the attitude of the Age. When the Labor
Government proposed to buy . out harmful combines
. on fair terms, the Age was aghast at the iniquity of
the proposal; now the same paper is howling for the
Government to enter with all its resources in com-
petition against the big sugar monopoly, and wine it
off the lists of trading concerns, or even the face of
the earth.
* * * •
A cable the other day mentioned that “the Sunder-
: land Co-operative Society had suspended payment
owing to the withdrawal of £24,000. The directors
' state that the society is solvent.” This ought to
make one Or two of the older Australian co-operative
1 societies think hard. The original “co-ops.”' had an
idea that a member ought to be entitled to with-
draw his capital on giving short notice. Also, seeing
that the shareholder of to-day might not be a share-
holder to-morrow, they cut up all the profits as they
went along, and never had any reserve funds worth
mentioning. It was a shockingly dangerous system,
because the shareholder’s capital might really be re-
presented by soap or clothes pegs, and as there, isn’t
a bank that will cash soap or clothes pegs on de-
mand, the society was always liable to have to tell
the shareholder that he couldn’t have his money yet
awhile. Apparently, this happened at Sunderland,
and those few Australian societies which work on
the same rotten system had better change it before
the same trouble looks in upon them.
“Stingaree”: I had come to the. conclusion that
Bung had arrived at the place where there was no-
thing further to be learned in the way of faking
liquor, when a nublican in a N.Q. township intro-
duced me to an original idea. By placing a couple
of cakes of scented sohp in a cask of even the flattest
beer, he found -that the fluid when served out would
foam over the top of the glass and make the eyes
of the most ancient and blase beer-chewer sparkle.
He did not say that he had patented the invention
yet. so I hasten to request that the matter be kept
a dead secret.
UN’HATCHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Government could do nothing for the schools,
but the budget shows that £ll5O could be spent on
the hen-house at Burnley. Was that not statesman-
ship worthy of recognition? . . . The late Mr. Bent
had said he could not meet a cow without taking
his hat off, and now Mr. Graham would not meet
a hen without cackling.— Warde, Victorian M.L.A.
The Ministerial bird sat tight
Upon an egg extremely pale,
And, cackling, nursed by day and night
A hope forlorn,
That something, some fine morning, might
Break through its pallid shell, and hail
The smiling morn!
Alas! That egg-of-promise still
Remains plain china, bald and chill.
No Ministerial warmth or wit,
Tending that spheroid night and day,
Can bring whatever "is in it
Up to the scratch. ..
Sure, when mad hens on china sit,
Blue-ducks are dashed well all that they
Can hope to hatch.
Blue-ducks it is—the pale egg still
Remains unchickened, bald and chill.
No cackling can give life to clay,
No care turn china into cliook,
Though hatch the hatcher night and day
With every care ;
No miracles are on the way,
Nor for prize poultry do we look
From crockery ware.
The Ministerial setting's still
A take-down dummy, bald and chill!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26,
AT TWO O’CLOCK,
At Rooms, 281 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Grand City Freehold.
The “Commercial Travellers’ Club,”
Flinders Street,
Opposite East Entrance Central Passenger Station.
CJ. and T. HAM (in conjunction with
• BAILLIEU PATTERSON & SONS
PTY LTD. and G. G. HENDERSON) are
instructed by the Commercial Travellers’ As-
sociation of Victoria, in consequence of its
contemplated removal to its new premises, to
SELL BY PUBLIC AUCTION, as above —
Land having a frontage of 40ft. to Flinders
Street, by a depth of 140 ft. to 16ft.
right-of-way at rear, on which is erected
that
HANDSOME and IMPOSING PILE
of buildings known as the “Commercial
Travellers’ Club,” comprising basement,
ground Hoor and six other floors, and
containing spacious entrance-hall and
offices, dining-hall 64ft. x 27ft. 4in., bar,
vestibule, and 92 other rooms, the whole
fitted with full club equipment of modern
comfort and luxury.
The magnificent, central, and wonderfully
accessible position of this property
ON THE CITY FRONT,
facing the central station, practically at the
junction of the principal lines of train,
connecting the great north, south and
eastern suburbs with the two city railway
stations, adjacent to the business premises
of the Metropolitan Gas Company and Ball
and Welch, Limited, gives it unrivalled ad-
vantages for
CLUB, ASSOCIATION, or FLATS,
while its capability of easy conversion to
SPLENDID SHOP PREMISES
should recommend the present opportunity
to the prompt and efficient attention of any
one seeking an
IDEAL CITY EMPORIUM.
Terms.—One-fifth cash, balance in mort-
gage up to 10 years, reducible by equal yearly
instalments of per cent., payable quar-
terly, with right to pay off whole or portion
of purchase money at any time, at one quar-
ter’s notice, or cash at one month.
For particulars of title apply Messrs.
Madden and Butler, Collins Street, and for
further particulars as to the property to C. J.
and T. Ilam, 2SI Collins Street; Baillieu
Patterson and Sons Pty. Ltd., 375 Collins
Street; or G. G. Henderson, Equitable Build-
ings, Collins Street.
"THE MODERN" | J> ~~~ J
rOMATIC SELF - FILLING. V" >
WATERMAN ACO. NEWTORK. I
\T. NOV. 17,03. A OCT. 11,04. ; -)
Turn
p
This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
Fountain Pen Users.
You eliminate all pos-
sible danger of soiling the
fingers or clothing in fill-
ing the
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC SAFETY
Fountain Pen.
You simply turn the
button at the end, hold
pen in ink, untwist, and
the pen fills itself. There
are no joints, therefore
the pen cannot leak.
Every pen is put through
a careful inspection be-
fore leaving our factory,
and it must give satisfac-
tion or money refunded.
Made in both plain and
fancy holders with a
variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents for
Waterman Fountain Pens.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write for trade prices.
They will interest you.
If it isn’t an “ A.A.” it
isn’t a “ MODERN.”
SURE CATCH FISH HOOKS
HOLD FAST. NEVER LET GO.
The Two Hooks for 2/6,
posted to any address, and we
will give with them a Package
of PUMIPO, the
Never-Failing
Fish Lure, that at-
tracts all the Fish in
the place.
'T'HE Patent Hook No. 3 can be set
x to strike with a lipht or a
heavy pull, according to the kind
of Fish; the upper hook sweeps
down aud secures the fish outside
the head. The No. 4 Hook has the
0
U
No. 3
Price
2 f-
Price
line attached to the sliding ring, and when the fish
pulls the twin hooks spring apart and catch the fish
firmly both ways. With either ot.these Patent Hooks a lost
fish is almost impossible. Order at once ; the stock is limited,
this adYertisemeht will probably not appear again.
Luminous Floats for Night Fishing 1/6,
Cheap Rods and Waterproof Lines.
THE
299 ELIZABI TH STREET
MELBOURNE.
I
SKIN SUCCESS
If you have Skin Trouble: Eczema, Pim-
ples, lloughness. Redness, or, In fact, any
affection of the Skin, send at once for
the Valuable Free Booklet entitled
4 * Skin Diseases and How to Treat Them’
You will be glad you did so. It tells you
the best method of treatment and gives
you the most highly qualified advice.
THR UNION MANUFA.CTTJB.LNG CO.,
299 SLIZABKTII dTKBIT, MkCLbOURSK#
The House that Bibendum Built.
AJt
i. This is the house that Bibendum built.
V
This is the Michelin Square Tread Tyre, that’s
sent from the house that Bibendum built.
V -1
This is the driver, all in a huff, who fitted a
tyre of otherwise stuff than that of the
Michelin Square Tread Tyre, that’s sent
from the house that Bibendum built.
m
m l
4. This is the car the colour of snuff, that be-
longed to the driver all in a huff, who
fitted a tyre of otherwise stuff than that
of the Michelin Square Tread Tyre, that’s
sent from the house that Bibendum built.
a**
A
&
4?
This is the road
all rocky and
rough, that bumped the car the colour of
snuff, that belonged to the driver all in a
huff, who tilted a tyre of otherwise stuff
than that of the Mu lielin Square Tread
r ] vie, that’s sent from the house that
Bibendum built.
M
S'
v.f/i
-i
/V.
•H&
6. This is the bit that
was far too
tough—the bit
of the road all rocky and rough, that bumped
the car the colour of snuff, that belonged
to the driver all in a huff— for it BUSTED
the tyre of otherwise stuff than that of the
Michelin Square Tr ad Tyre, that’s sent
from the house that Bibendum built.
'his is the driver.saying A l\. UK /l^
“ Enough. No more
for me of the other-
wise stuff, for I often
meet roads all rocky
and rough—worse than the bit that was
far too tough-—and I’m not going to be
made to suff. ; so I’ll take my car the
colour of snuff” —his mien grew calmer,
his voice less gruff—"‘and fit it with
Michelin Square Tread Tyres that are
sent from the house that Bibendum bu.lt.”
Tyres.
STOCKED BY ALL THE LEADING GARAGES
% > J
StVJlJOEraiff®
PRODUCER
k
A Moustache Proves Manliness!
“A bare-faced boy” is a remark slightingly made about a man who
cannot grow a moustache —he is looked down on by his fellows, 'and
is heavilv handicapped in life. Are you one of these?
CAPILLARINE will put five years on your looks; it will
start a strong moustache-growth, and will keep, it growing, too.
Price 10/6 JAR ; POSTED FREE in Plain Wrapper Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER— worn at night
shapes the growth. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
s
r 1
J
ADIES desirous of having their hair dressed in the latest styles should
call on the
■4
VICE-REGAL
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs
161 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Tails Fringes, Transformations, Puffs, and all Accessories for the prevailing
Phone 2138 Central. fashions always in stock. Write for Catalogue.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
I /-EACH POST FREE 1/2
I Quality Not Bette -
I in a
[ Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
’storekeepers* TOBACCONISTS \
SHOULD SEND TOR OOP TRADE UST
sra
MILLERS
M)
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
51 Length, 12 Inches.
/ " POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.] [4
[RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
They Never Fall.
They Always Cure.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/tj & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT 4 Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
mn3
ASTHMA CURE
Il ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES 1
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervousCoughs,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAII-
ETTES.
Bmd bit all Chemists.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Rrenmer.
NARRUNG ..
WIRCANHIA
WAKOOL ..
Tons I
Commander.
50onG. A. Millington
500 >| W. G. I/nu'lum
| ■ *
5000 F. W, Banson, R.R.N,
Saiis.
N’ov. 15
Dec. 12
Dec. 24
SAT.OO\ ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR.
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB * £2O.
(' \ PETOWN & NATAL. £l3 135., £l5 15s. &£ 17 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SA PERSON. LTD.. 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORVI CTO .. T
OSTEREEY
OTRANTO ..
OTWAY ..
ORSOVA ..
ORONTES .
OMRAFI ..
OPHIR
ORAMA (Bitili)i
12,130 R ef rd. Tons.
12,129 „
12.124 „
1-2,077 „
12,036 „
9.023 „
8.282 „
O.BM „
13.000 „
Fitted with Wireless- Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ous 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private
Bathrooms, Kloctric .Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: M9OHE STREET, SYDNEY.
FA RMERS A ND
LOANS TO
SETTLERS'
£2OOO
for 31 years. Repayable bv half-yearly instalments.
J. H. DAVIES', Secretary.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
new Sooth wales.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MORTGAGE LOANS FROM 4
TO 5 PER CENT.
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ~ £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTIT, Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES:
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of f)eo Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital i 500 000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1.034,40.3
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Hji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(leistered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) .. £1,180,812
MEAD OFFICE—-George and Kin'; Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, EC.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwoou, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealafid, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £SOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,494 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) ... ... ; 100,COO. 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609. 4 ; 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F.
LORD, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nora
BY
D eutscher
oyd.
PASSENGE'IS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles. Gibraltar.
London, Antwerp, ami Bremen.
Twin Screw Steamers.
ZtETKV
BREMEN..
KuNIGIY LUISE
Tons
8066
11570
10711
SEY BLITZ .. ..18000
FRIEDRICH d. (1. . 10695
GROSSER KURFURST 13243
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUii.CkE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
TIICS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by
Weston ‘ ‘ WEEKLY W
Set of six, posted free, 6d.
Newspaper Co. 214 George S
Harrv J.
ORRIES.”
Bulletin i
t., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 8.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
November 22.
AFIUC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow,
i itted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation!
Fares —Capetown or Durban £15.15 0 tod24 3 0
London . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGK Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ ABCRPCCN LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
b New Triple-screw Turbine Steamer,
t For the Melbourne Cup. * Third Class only.
FAKES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From a:57 £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way);
£B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
DOES THIS APPEAL
TO YOU?
A CRUISE through the coral isles of the Pacific,
affording tourists an opportunity, previously un-
thought of, of viewing the strange inhabitants of
the various South Sea Islands in their still semi-barbarous
state.
If so, we will be happy to forward you our pamphlet
describing our different island tours.
i
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£2,991,360
£1,969,435
£2,991,560
£7,952,555
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M. E.C.
Auditors : Alfred Oeorge Milson, Esq.
Thomas Auckland. E<q,
Richard Binnie, Ksq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
; "illiam Harring-ron Paltner. Ksq.
”® ad ofl fi=e-Ge°rgr e St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneadle st e r
•AVith 332 branches inall the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and I’amiaiNew Sour ,, i v,,V , ' TfJ
Queensland 49 B,„th Australia o West Australia 11, ke£ ££land Ta^'u,ia l Fi^sP« >
' Londo ' , i); and Ajrentsand Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom Eurooe India China’
Japan and the East, Africa Canada the United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West ’indieV
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT kw.;.,-,, , .
lected. Letters of Credip %iid Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORIJ). an
J • RUSSELL FRENCH, General ilanasrer.
colled
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,400,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,500,000 0 0
£4,400.000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Geo rum J. Cohen, Esq . . .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Ka.ter, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
IFon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
ilpn. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & IV. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: Georg-e Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birch in-Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Brandies throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . . . £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~ - ~
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial fljutual Oife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liabilityalso
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceocf £5.300.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable* Indefeasible!
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Lineral Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales-
-28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon.
The Hon.
Directors:
C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.
Bruce Smith, Iv.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
L.C., Chairman.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Tj'lIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
CLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOD fH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
The TWENTY-FOURTH ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of Members will be held in the ROYAL
EXCHANGE, on MONDAY. OCTOBER 23, 1911 at
Noon.
BUSINESS.
30 1911 61 Ve Reports and Balance-sheet to September
To Elect One Director in place of Lesley Herring,
Esq. who retires (under Clauses 77 and'7B of the
Articles of Association), and who offers himself for
re-election.
To Elect Two Auditors in place of Messrs. YV.
Clarke and F. Phillips.
To consider any other business, of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the Articles
oi Association.
4, PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
17 O Connell Street, Sydney, October 4, 1911.
f AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
— FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors :
11. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq Ciairnian
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.1LC.5.1. ) L.K.Q.C.P I
■Glaudk Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
General Manager: J. V Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting' Actuary
W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan BuKdings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOU MELBOURNE
ADKRaIDE
FORT I*l RIE
-An.l (.;UI.F PORTS
FRKMaNTRE.
Tninshi|>|>insr at Fremantle I
to all North Western Port-:, I
ORRaIvDTON (W.A.) J
BRISBANE
MAOKAV I
TOWNSVIERE I
And Ports North to Cairns. '
S.S. Kvarra (7000), Satur-
day, Occ. 2S, and Nov.
25. Transhipping; at’Fre-
mantle to all N.-\Vest.
Ports.
S. Gran tala, Oct. 21.
(Kitted Wireles**.)*
S. Wollowra, Ocr,.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfin/dst.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeably. after-
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies*
on all services subject to conditions, which, can be
ascertained on application at the. Company’s OXliee.
G. S. YUIL.L JHc CO.. LTty..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN)
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL- RED” RO UT ft.
To VANCOUVER, via
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,,
thence by Rail to any part of?
CANADA or UNITED STATES*
The Best Route to Europe..
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific ltailway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.—H.
vS.
Federal>Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
Twin-screw Steamer
“ARGYLLSHIRE.”
12,300 Tons. Captain Chicken.
Will be despatched from:—■
MELBOURNE, OCTOBER 24.
ADELAIDE, OCTOBER 31.
Carries Saloon Passengers only.
The STATE ROOMS are situated on DECK amid-
UININ « SALOON, SMOKE-ROOM and
LOUNGE situated on UPPER DECK. Doctor and
Stewaruesses carried. Wireless Telegraphy fitted.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Canal Routes. Prepaid passages
arranged.
FARES—Single, £4O to £45.
Return, £6B to £76 10s.
From Brisbane £2 extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by -
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. lor further in
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apgj.w,
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney.
McILWRAITH, McEACRARN & CO., Prop., fitd.i
Melbourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide. ,
H. -TONES E CO.. Ltd.. Hobart:
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE COOPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares issued to Contributors of Business.
When your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
Hotels, &c.
am
r'EORGE HOTEL,.
«St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS
15he HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modem
Conveniences. Tariff from 6/- a Day.
JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
Tbe'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in tue »inc* 150 b.
CURES
Austral'an Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist tor its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Koad, London, En
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.


tHe Camera that
wins on its merits!
THE KODAK is a Camera of unequalled merits. _ It meets every demand
of the novice and the expert. It is the perfection of the original idea of
George Eastman, i.e., to combine compactness with simplicity and
economy with reliability.
How will you spend this Summer? In many pleasant ways, no doubt.
Then why not get a Kodak Camera and make a permanent picture record of
your outings? You will find its use decidedly simple and fascinating, every
operation being performed in daylight with ease and certainty. You can learn
to use it successfully within half an hour.
The No. 3A FOLDING POCKET KODAK CAMERA is just the Camera
for you to get for this Summer. Its pictures measure x3£ inches, it has a
capacity of 6 or 10 exposures without reloading, and is beautifully fitted
throughout. Works in daylight all the way. Equipment includes double
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Kodak Automatic Shutter, Automatic Focussing Lock,
Brilliant Reversible Finder and Tripod Sockets.
The price is £4/10/-. Postage extra.
Brownie Kodak Cameras from 5/-; Regular Kodak Cameras from 2G/-
All Kodak Supplies at English list prices.
The Kodak Catalogue contains full details, and is free for the asking.
Write for a copy to-day.
• .
-
: W L M :
v-'r v,.- y.wfv.s-
isS
'A
. A
i ,
V {
.1* s
r wi*~
‘£4 '*. sv
%/ ✓ i »
/ jiriH
7 . ■
•
i t
If it isn’t an Eastman,
it isn’t a KODAK!”
KODAK
Incorporating 1 Baker Sl Rouse Prop. Ltd
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMONT CO., LTD., Cinematograph Experts),
379 George St., Sydney.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
Our Leading Watch Values.
\<s
ts *?vy
in
<8
30
A Reliable, Keyless, Fly-back, Centre Second
Watch, in Oxidised Steel Case—the “ Trotter,”
for official timing and professional purposes, 25/*
s
“Derby” Double Chronograph, gives instan-
taneous records in minutes and seconds. Three-
quarter plate Lever, Ruby Jewelled, fine Chro-
nometer Expansion Balance, Brequet Hair
Spring. Solid Silver Open Case, £6/10/-;
Hunting, £7/10/-. IBct. Gold Case: Open
Face, £2O; Hunting, £22.
.
An Extra Strong Watch, manufactured
specially for us at the Waltham Factory.
Sterling silver case, three-quarter rlate.
Jewelled lever movement. Grand value,
Cl /
Bushman’s Lever Watch, specially suitable for
hard town and country wear. Keyless Lever
movement, jewelled, non-mapnetic, dust and
damp proof Oxidised Steel case. £l/1/*
Attractive Lacies’ Waltham
Lever Watch, Three-quarter
Plate, Jewelled Compensating
Balance, Engraved 1 Oct. Gold
Case, £B/10/- ; 14ct. Gold,
£lO/10/- ; 18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
fi
V
V
r
tMt
m
was
I
m
YU
e*
I/O
or/.
»r
■AV
SBS
vtt
'.W.
K'Av
<si
S 3
53&2
m
OKK
Write for our
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Every Stewart Dawson Watch guaranteed in writing, and given a week's trial.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
(Australia) Ltd.,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney.


Gout and Rheumatism.
These complaints arise from the poisonous waste
matters accumulated in the blood, consequent on the
kidneys, through temporary disorder or through
some disease, being unable to carry out their work.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills rapidly reach the root of the
trouble, and soon afford relief. Price, Is. 6d. and
2s. 6d.*
O.T. Ltd. is now pushing its business into S.
America, where Mr. P. Magan is to take charge, with
headquarters at Buenos Ayres ; and Jas. Neill, one of
the co.’s directors, left this week to shake up
S’Africa.*
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1911.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the, year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations, by “Hop,” Alf Vincent, Nor-
man Lindsay and other leading representative
artists, will be the finest, Black and White work
obtainable in Australia, and will reflect the
national humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates, but,
in consequence of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 18th NOVEMBER to ensure
supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
COMMON AMONG MINERS.
“Like many other miners I contracted a severe
cold through coming out of the hot mine into the
cool air,” says Mr. W. Crouch, of Tabina Street,
Broken Hill, N.S.W., “and at night I would get an
awful tickling in the throat and chest, but Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy was the means of giving im-
mediate relief from it, and quickly cured my cold.
No other medicine was able to do this, and I had
many bottles from the doctor.”*
Legal Notice.
I N
THE SUPREME COURT
QUEENSLAND.
OF
In the matter of an action wherein James
Charles Matthews is plaintiff and Jay Amos
is defendant and numbered 13S of 1911.
To JAY AMOS the above-named de-
fendant
Take notice that on the fifth day of June
1911 a writ of summons was issued in the
above action which claimed £43/4/6 for the
price of goods sold and delivered and take
notice that by an order dated the sixth day
of September 1911 it was ordered that the
service of a copy of the said order and a
copy of a writ of summons in this action by
sending the same by prepaid post letters ad-
dressed to you the said Jay Amos at Pitts-
worth Queensland -land to you care of Mr.
Stewart Pittsivorth aforesaid and to you
care, of the General Post Office Sydney New
South Wales respectively and the publica-
tion by advertisement of notice of said order
in the Sydney “Bulletin” Newspaper pub-
lished at Sydney aforesaid and in a news-
paper circulating in the town of Pittsworth
aforesaid should be deemed good service of
the said writ of summons on you and take
notice that in default of you causing an ap-
pearance to be entered for you at the Regis-
try Supreme Court Brisbane within three
months after the last of such advertisements
the plaintiff may proceed in the said action
and judgment may be given in your absence.
Dated this sixth day of October 1911
(Signed)
W. A. DOUGLAS
Registrar.
PERCY J. THORN, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
293 Queen Street. Brisbane.
*
I • g
A
Sensible
Tropical
This style of Patrol
Suit is the most sen-
sible for the warm
weather. The only
undergarment it calls
for is a singlet, as it
buttons right to the
neck.
We have these suits
in all sizes, and can
heartily recommend
them.
In White Drill, the price is 17/6; in
fancy Tussore, 21/-.,
SAC SUITS (ordinary style) in oat-
meal crash—a material which is delight-
fully cool, and which will wear well—are
also 17/6 and 21/-
If you haven’t our Catalogue, will you
send for a copy?
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big' BlocK,
BRISBANE.
n
Missing: Friends.
Roland ell wood terry shutt
—or TERRY. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of above person, who left
Loughbro’, England, November, 11)08, for
Otorohanga, W. T. W., New Zealand, thence
for'Sydney, August, 1900, please communi-
cate with
W. A.,
Bulletin, Sydney.
RAY TANSEY is requested to communi-
cate with
BROTHER L„
Cromwell, N.Z.
FRY, GEORGE, ELIZA and ELIZA-
BETH, children of Louisa Jane Fry.
late of Cascade-road, near Hobart, or their
children, or any person who can give infor-
mation concerning them, are requested to
communicate at once with the Curator of
Intestate Estates, Hobart, who is now dis-
tributing the Estate of the said Louisa Jane
Fry, deceased.
IN BANANA LAND
To a recent civil service deputation that
wanted its lunch-time extended, Premier
Denham remarked: “Your hours are 38 a
week—no great strain on your constitu-
tions.” The Brisbane dailies have been
howling with indignation for weeks because
some Labor orator down South advocated
42 hours a week for a working-man; but
they couldn’t find a single word of rebuke
for the privileged pen-drivers who thought
38 hours a week too much.
A “conscientious objector” the
other day interviewed a Defence
officer, and declared that, no mat-
ter how often he might be fined, he
would never allow his son to have
military training. “Tell me,” said
the officer, coaxingly, “what would
you do if a foreign foe swooped
down upon Australia, and took
your land from you, and did un-
speakable things to your women
and children? Would you sit on a
fence and look on, because it is
against your religion to figbt?”
“No, sir.” said the “conscientious
objector” decidcdlv; “I should look
to you, gentlemen, to defend me.”
Then a bomb burst on those pre-
mises, and the “conscientious ob-
jector” fled for shelter.
Amongst North Queenslanders
who will have big funerals when
they die, old Dr. May, of Bunda-
berg, stands well up on the list.
He is much like that other North-
erner. Dr. Koch, the friend of
broken-up miners from Papua and
of poor folk generally, who burned
his account books when he knew
he was dying. Some years ago, to
do away with a lot of book-keeping
work that seriously interfered with
the time available for the cross-
examination of insects, Dr. May
reckoned he would just call every-
square. Some time back the
Hospital gave him a holiday and
£5O to have a good time with. He
spent the holiday watching other
doctors and surgeons in the big
cities, and the £5O in buying ap-
paratus for the public hospital at
Bundaberg. Commercially,, he is
a hopeless proposition, but he will
discuss the intimate family affairs
of a ceratodus or a bit of gossip
from the Jurassic period with avidity.
A Mrs. Begg, of Childers, has established
what must be close-up a birth-rate record.
Within 12 months she has given birth to
five children—twins and triplets.
“Condot”: The Queensland Times, of
Ipswich, was 50 years old on October 8.
When it started, Queensland was an infant of
two years’ growth. The Times began as a
bi-weekly, and cost 3d. a copy. It is now a
penny daily. Its early editors were J. C.
Thompson, a surveyor, who laid out the
town of Gympie; George Hamilton Hall, a
famous shot in his day; Edward Butterfield,
an enlightened and scholarly man, travelling
representative of the Melbourne Akgus in the
digging days of Victoria ; Joseph Butterfield,
his brother; and Dr. W. Carr-Boyd. Jack
Woolly now pushes the weary editorial pen
of the Conservative old sheet. Some good
Australian ink-travellers have had their
press beginnings in the Times office, includ-
ing Dave Watterston, now manager of the
Wilson share in the Argus. Hugh Parkin-
son, who died full of years in 1909, was one
of the progenitors of the sheet, and his sons,
Hugh and William, are directors of the co.
that owns it.
The white man and his wife, the white
woman, still do themselves fair credit
in the tropical North, according to the evi-
dence of the old age pension list. The pro-
portion of pensioners who qualified last
financial year by reason of poverty
and longevity was 1710 for every
1,000,000 inhabitants of the Commonwealth,
and those qualified by poverty and sickness
were 169 per 1,000,000. They were divided
out in this fashion: —
Old Age Invalid Total
Pensioners Pensioners per
per 1,000,000. per 1,000,000. 1,000,000.
Tasmania .. 2000 .. 207 .. 22u7
Victoria .. 1820 .. 168 .. 1988
N. S. Wales.. 1710 .. 234 .. 1944
S. A 1680 .. 86 .. 1766
Queensland.. 1660 .. 82 .. 1742
Westralia .. 1080 .. 63 .. 1143
Apparently, they grow a fair proportion of
old people in the North, and but for the re-
cent extensive immigration the proportion
of tough old battlers would be still higher.
And they either grow an amazingly small
proportion of premature wrecks-Hfar smaller
than in N.S.W. and Tasmania —or else
they are affluent wrecks, and don’t require
pensions. And if the explanation is that
they are affluent wrecks, then the North
must be a climate where men have energy
enough to acquire affluence before they be-
come wrecks, for affluence doesn’t grow on
trees in Queensland any more than it does
elsewhere. It is a notable fact that the
three States with the fewest wrecks are the
three that spread into the tropics—S.A.
having included the Territory at the time
when the list was compiled.
FOOLS RUSH IN.
AVIATOR : “ You're a blessed food to be down
there walking around on the clouds like that.”
HIS MATE : "Why so?"
AVIATOR : “Because you don't see the angels
tread on them."
“X.P.D.”: At the back of Cairns, along
the Barron Valley, there are great areas of
country which, because of its steepness, is
unfit for agriculture, and is never likely to
be selected until some method is invented of
ploughing up and down the walls of the
globe with a perpendicular horse. These
precipices carry good soil, and are handy to
the railway ; also, they are the natural home
of the cedar, though the big trees have been
cut out long agq. Mostly it is State land.
By planting that country with young cedars,
and caring for them on scientific principles,
a good profit might be earned out of some-
thing that is now almost valueless. Accord-
ing ,to an experjmeritJ'niade in a small way
some' years ago, the ebst of planting, etc",
would be about 3d. per free. No clearing is
needed; the young trees could just be shoved
in along the miles and miles of disused tim-
ber tracks which form a 'network over the
country.
If Only.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If only you could run the Earth
And I could rig the Bun,
On what a scheme of maddest mirth
This Universe would run !
The gales that gallop wild and grim
Would then so softened he
That, gently as a vesper hymn,
They'd sweep along the sea.
The course of Love that will go wrong
Would never turn askew ;
'l’he pretty girls who chanced along
Would smile on me and you ;
Our chronic state of dollar-dearth
Would mighty soon be done —
If I could only run the Earth
And you could rig the Sun.
Our wealthy aunt would make her will
And then depart in peace
To where the choirs eternal trill
Their songs and never cease;
As soon as e’er a wish could dawn
’Twould straight accomplished he.
And ev’ry Ivory Gate would yawn
At “Open Sesame !”
We’d drown the voice of ev’ry dun,
We’d stifle ev’ry bore,
We’d pot with swift, unerring gun
The pests of ev’ry shore;
We’d cage the prima donnas all
And bid them pipe away
Until they turned the nightly pall,
With song, to merry day.
And all this crazy quilt of things,
The common things that are.
Would whirl away on sudden wings
And leave us on a star —
A star that flashed a-down a firth
Of endless joy and fun—
If only you could run the Earth
And / could rig the Sun.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 14, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The clan Macgregor is still making sorties
from .its lastness upon public gatherings, and
wielding the trusty platitude with more or
less effect. This afternoon, the Chiel motored
to Sandgate, and laid tire foundation stone
of the new town hall; at least, he tapped
the stone down where the other bricklayer
had laid it, and declared it to be a work-
manlike job. In return, his Ex. was handed
on« burnished trowel and a quantity of
rusty oratory. The local inhabitants con-
gregated in all the glory of her new motor-
veil and skin-tight dress, and moved through
P ro^® e dißgs with the grace and elegance
of H. G. VV ells’s party of Martians who
conquered the earth in “The War of the
Worlds. Amongst the visitors to the root
or the new building were the Mayoral
Diddams.
Humanitarianism in woman is not alto-
gether dead. The Denham Sisters the other
day handed out tea in exchange for recipes
with which to lighten the lot, and, incident-
a,Ry* chest, of the male contractor of
the forthcoming Docker-Milson alliance. A
sister (married) of another bridegroom re-
cently compiled a neat little booklet, in which
she warned her new sister just how Alger-
non Reginald liked his curry, and what to
give him for breakfast on the morning fol-
lowing lodge nights. The new scheme is
meeting with the hearty approval of the
Divorce Court, which sees in it some pros-
pect of a much-needed rest.
On Wednesday last, the City Fathers and
their femininity gathered in great array at
Kangaroo Point, to witness the launch of a
new municipal ferry-boat. After Miss Ena
-tietherington (the daughter of last year’s
• a ju° r h eave d a bottle of champagne
in the eye of the cruiser, the party adjourned
to the workshop, where the roast turkey
had the time of its life, and the bottled grog
went on its way rejoicing.
Maidens are still rushing in where the di-
vorced fear to tread. Miss Gladys Marie
Spowers, an offshoot of our Surveyor-Gen-
eral, donned 1 white satin last week, and as-
sured Mr. Gerard Gore of her perfect
wilhngness to accompany him to Assam and
spend her future days watching him plant
tea. On Tuesday, another of our Very Best
was enticed away from the city by Mr.
Alistair Gordon, of Nanango. He placed
th 6 proprietorial plain band on the ring finger
of Aileen Fahey, who was upholstered for
the occasion in beautiful old Limerick lace
and satin. E ather gave the girl away, in a
manner of speaking, and barrister brother
Bernard acted as referee.
Rumors of another engagement float in
from the West, where one of our dimpled
city daughters has gathered in the proprietor
ot many acres and much mutton, with whose
(the proprietor’s, not the mutton’s) mater-
nal relative she had sojourned awhile.
Home,” at the Art Society’s show
°? 1 . T hursday, produced a weird jumble of
alleged hats,_ Paris (perhaps) frocks, Brum-
magem earrings, beaded shoes and impres-
sionist complexions. Lady Cowley and Mes-
dames Stqdart, Robin Dods and Blundell
distributed the cup that cheers when there
is nothing better to be obtained.
Nellie Nicholson, a lady with a figure like
an early Norse goddess, and a voice which
makes one hear an overloaded cash-box in
the distance, gave a successful concert re-
cently. She draped herself for the occasion
m rose-pink satin filled in with moonlight
sequins, and two bullock drays were hired to
carry home the floral remarks of apprecia-
tion. Arthur Crane, of comic opera fame,
who is enthusiastically engaged in putting a
polish on the lady’s top notes, added his
share to the music of the evening.
Those North Pine inhabitants who have
petitioned and deputationised their objection
to having the name of their railway station
changed to “Petrie,” have been squelched,
ihe ukase declareth that they shall alight at
Petrie, anyhow, and reside at North Pine if
they like. Now I have it on good authority,
that another railway station may shortly
have its name changed in order that Digby
D. may alight at Denham to get to Yeronga!
Miss Margaret Bailey, who attends to the
pruning of the young idea at the Rockhamp-
ton Grammar School, leaves per Orient boat
at the end of December for distant parts
Miss Cornwall, Another lady of scholastic
leanings at the same academy, will accom-
pany her for one year, to patch up her
si ightly-frayed jiealth.
Our tennis champions are feeling that life
has its recompenses sometimes. Following
upon the fright they gave the N. S. Wales
cracks some little time ago, they have re-
ceived an invitation to nominate players for
the forthcoming big tournament at
Manila.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Quan” : How’s this for a ride? Ernest
Rumbel, a youth of 18, recently rode a horse
from Salisbury, on the Williams River
(N.S.W.), to Crow’s Nest, near Toowoomba
(Q.), a distance of 633 miles, in 14 days.
The nag looked very little the worse for his
long trip, so well did the youngster nurse
him.
CAB RECRIMINATION.
LEAN : “ You're a beautiful bloomin' specimen ,
you are."
F AT: "Well, ye see, we can't all be heavenly
Romeos like you, Bill. ”
The Denham Government has just put a
Sugar Works Bill through the Assembly. The
measure provides that, as soon as the money
advanced by the State for the erection of a
mill is repaid, the property passes entirely
into the hands of landowners and cane-
growers. The State thus takes the risk of
failure; the private landowner only takes
over the mill when it proves a success. Dr.
Maxwell (late Comptroller of Sugar Mills)
condemned this principle most vehemently
—but Maxwell has departed. Still, the
Queensland Labor party might have been ex-
pected to make a decent fight against the
grossly unfair, double-head'ed-penny business,
seeing that “nationalisation of the means of
production, distribution and exchange” is
still supposed to be its objective. But the
Queensland Labor party suffers from very
defective vision at times, and can't see its
objective as it might.


RITANNICA.
10th Edition.
1875.
1902
11th Edition.
1911.
raWUittfH
enmiHnni
ima\srei\
muintHii
imianffifii
raiHißirn!
TOIBUHB3II
m
1911.
This photograph gives an idea of the saving in
bulk which results from printing the new En-
cyclopaedia Britannica on India paper, which
unites strength and opacity with tenuity. A
prospectus will be sent on application.
The India Paper Impression.
INDIA paper is the name given to a very thin and light, but tough and
opaque, kind of paper used for making books of which it is desirable to
reduce the bulk and weight to a minimum without impairing dura-
bility or affecting the legibility of the type. The name was originally
given in England, about the middle of the 18th century, to a soft absorbent
paper imported from China, probably by way of India.
How India Paper First Came From the Far East.
The name of India paper is now chiefly associated with European (es-
pecially British) machine-made, thin, opaque printing papers used in the
highest class of book-printing. In 1841 an Oxford graduate brought to
England from the Far East a small quantity of extremely thin paper, which
was manifestly tougher and more opaque, for its weight, than any paper then
made in Europe. He presented it to the Oxford University Press, which, in
1842, used it for 24 copies of the smallest Bible then in existence.
Re-invented in England.
In 1874 a copy of the India paper Bible fell into the hands of Henry
Frowde, and experiments were instituted at the Oxford University paper-
mills at Wolvercote with the object of producing similar paper. In 1875 an
impression of the Bible, similar in all respects to that of 1842, was placed on
sale by the Oxford University Press. This feat of compression was regarded
as astounding, the demand was enormous, and since then hundreds of thou-
sands of these India paper Bibles have been printed.
Tests at the Paris Exposition.
The marvels of compression achieved by the use of India paper created
great interest at the Paris Exposition in 1900. Its strength was as remark-
able as its lightness. Volumes of 1500 pages were suspended for several
months by a single leaf, as thin as tissue, and when they were examined
at the close of the Exposition it was found that the leaf had not started,
the paper had not stretched, and the volume closed as well as ever.
The paper, when subjected to severe rubbing, instead of breaking into
holes, like ordinary printing paper, assumed a texture like that of chamois
leather, and a strip 3 inches wide was found to support a weight of 281 b.
without yielding.
Adoption by the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
The adoption of India paper (with flexible bindings) for the
New Encyclopaedia Britannica marked a veritable revolution in
the making of large books. The public of the English-speak-
ing world has been quick to see the advantages of the new
format. Eighty-nine per cent, of the 35,000 orders so far
received for the new Ilth Edition have been for sets on
India paper, and subscribers have shown the greatest en-
thusiasm over the light, thin, beautiful volumes of the India
paper edition. These volumes, though they each contain about
1000 pages, are only 1 inch thick. The whole set occupies only
30 inches of shelf space, whereas the edition on ordinary book-
paper requires nearly secen feet.
Far-Reaching Effect of the Innovation.
It is the confident belief of the Syndics of the Press of the
University of Cambridge that the new Britannica, in the light,
flexible, easily-handled India paper format, will not only be re-
ferred to more often than was its cumbrous predecessor, but
that it will henceforth be read and studied with far greater
ease and comfort, and, therefore, much more profitably.
i
CUT HERE.
TO THE CAMBRIDGE
UNIVERSITY PRESS,
9 Bridge-street, Sydney (P.O. Box 1612 1
CUT lIEKE.
Please send me, gratis
an.- post free, the pro-
spectus and 50 speci-
men pages of the new
Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica, with particulars
of the temporary offer.
Name
Address
Sc 3 . .
Occupation


wm
fuss
- ■
I
m
, v;
;!!§
* :
■
wlebnatfu
■
«
mmm
BREWED FROM
MALTED- barley
Twer bridge r*
rr
it'"
Warn
— ;
;
E
T
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
I*~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Fitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
Well, of course
Anything worth doing >s
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:al Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng-.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading'
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial
Single-Barrel Duck Guns large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast oross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pis r ol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side plips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial
£5 2 6 £3 12 6
8 5 0
3 10 0
5 10 0
10 0 0
5 10 0
1 17 6
4 17 6
7 10 ()
15 0
13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write -for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
tSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers -
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
Z<3vv Points
-fir /ni/entors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where ihecessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the neces-ary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.'
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
A
N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and theyboth coat the same.
13 ILL! /-I R,DS
I3V
V (
:
■
'
(
rN
3
i
r,. s
iLS: !
Another Australian Record
on the “Alcock” Table.
TO the remarkable series of record breaks by Gray, Roberts, Williams and
Lindrum, already performed on the “Alcock” Table, is added another record
by Lindrum. His latest achievement was in the Melbourne match with
Reece, when hesecured the phenomenal break of 1239—1230 coming off the red,
establishing two Australian records. All these champions have expressed their
high opinion of Alcock Tables, for huge breaks are only possible where the table
is “ true to angle,” with cushions, jaws and every other part absolutely perfect.
ti Gray and Lindrum owe their present reputations largely to the
“Alcock” Table. It is on these tables they practised and made many of their
largest breaks. We will gladly post you our illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK (SL CO. PTY. LTD.,
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth.
397 George St., Sydney.
114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Lower Cuba Street,. Wellington.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed— stout people
look thin—thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price 1/-, j
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
most
rViciou s
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
trampsthan a watch-
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
:'!■■■ 1
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/».
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles overproduced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
&
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
novellies obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Makes a splendid
Puzzle to shut as well as to open.
knife for general use, also a superior rabbiter's knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Po3tal Address—3oX 3, HAYM ARXET PO3T OFFICE, SYDNEY.
Branches—lll KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
SHINOLEUM
How do you polish your
Floors <EL Furniture
Do you find it a difficult task a labour that tires you out and
even then the result is not all you could wish? Whatever method
you have adopted in the past, give SHI-NOLEUM a trial now.
Those who use it regularly say that it goes much further, lasts
much longer, and gives infinitely better results than any other
polish they have tried. But it's a simple matter to use it your-
self-, and see just how good it is. Tell your Storekeeper to send
you a tinj you should have no trouble about getting supplied as
It is sold by all Stores in
N. S. W., Victoria &
Queensland
The Paget Manufacturing Co. Ltd
Melbourne Si Sydney
ai
VA
m
ra
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21b
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
Australia. By Baldwin Spencer,
C.M.G., M.A.. F.R.S., Hon. Fellow Exeter
College, Oxford, Professor of Biology in
Melbourne University ; and F. ,T. Gillen.
Special Magistrate and Sub-Protector
of Aborigines, South Australia. With
Colored and other Illustrations. Bvo.
This book deals, in a more popular
way, with the results of the travels un-
dertaken by the two authors in the in-
terior of Australia. The book includes
an account, based on quite recent per-
sonal observation, of the. relatively un-
known Northern Territory which is just
about to be opened by the Connnon-
■ wealth.
* s li n i <lB Enchantment. Many-sided
Melanesia, seen through Many Eyes and
recorded by Florence Coornbe. With
100 Photographs and a Map. Bvo.
THE CAMBRIDGE NATURAL HIS-
TORY. Edited l>y S. F. Harmer, Sc.D.,
F.R.S., and A. E. Shipley, M.A., F.R.S.
In ten volumes. Fully Illustrated,
Medium Bvo, Library Binding. Sold in
Sets Only. Half Morocco, Gilt Top.
£8 Bs. net.
The Publishers will be pleased to sup-
ply Prospectus giving full particulars.
A
Victorian Anthology
Edited by M. P. Hansen,
2s. 6d.
for Schools.
M.A., LL.B.
A MAP OF THE WORLD ON MER-
CATOR’S PROJECTION. Specially
designed for Australasian Schools,
showing AUSTRALIA as the centre of
the universe. Size, 50in. x 42in.
Mounted on cloth. Rollers and var-
nished, 12s.
ATLAS FOR AUSTRALASIAN
SCHOOLS, Physical and Political.
Size, 12in. x 10in.; 36 maps, Is. 6d.
MACMILLAN'S
NEW SHILLING
LIBRARY.
LIFE OF GLADSTONE.
By John Morley. 3 vols.
The Man-Eaters of Tsavo. By Lieut.-
Colonel J. H. Patterson. Illustrated.
Essays. By R. W. Emerson.
Essays in Criticism. First Series. By
Matthew Arnold.
Man’s Place in Nature. By Thomas
Henry Huxley.
Send for COMPLETE LIST of
POPULAR 1/- BOOKS
(about ICO vols.).
MACMILLAN’S
Colonial LIBRARY
of Copyright Books.
Issued in Paper Covers and in Cloth
Boards.
595 The Song of Renny. By Maurice
Hewlett.
603 The Case of Richard Meynell. By
Mrs. Humphry Ward.
596 Ethan Frome. By Edith Wharton.
Author of “The House of Mirth,”
etc.
598 The Wonderful Garden. Bv E.
Nesbit, Author of “The Magic City,”
etc.
600 John Tenuple: Merchant Adventurer,
Convict apd Conquisitador. By
ILalph Durand.
601 The Centaur. By Algernon Black-
wood, Author of “Jimbo: a Phan-
tasy,” etc.
594 The Lost Iphigenia. By Agnes and
Egerton Castle.
602 The Baron’s Heir. A Sixteenth Cen-
tury Romance for Young People.
By Alice Wilson Fox, Author of
“Hearts and Coronets,” etc.
591 Members of the Family. By Owen
Wister, Author of “The Virginian,”
“Lady Baltimore,” etc.
593 The Legacy. A Story of a Woman.
By Mary S. Watts, Author of
Nathan Burke.
Complete List sent Post Free on application.
To be obtainedfrom all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN § CO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


NON-RUSTABLE
ME
T
A
(fi
i*
The Secret of Dress
Women who spend a great
deal of money on clothes are
particular to select perfectly fitting
corsets adapted to their individual
figures. Formerly, it was im-
possible to secure such corsets
except at very high prices.
The D& A Canadian Corset
meets the need of those who are
moderate in their expenditures for
clothes, yet na-
turally wish to look
trig and well-dressed.
We illustrate the
D & A non-rustable
model No. 512, which
is sold by all good
drapers at a reasonable price. It
is designed bn the latest lines,
carefully made, and the best value
ever offered.
Ask your dealer to show you
these Canadian Corsets.
DOMINION CORSET CO., QUEBEC, Canada.
Makers of the celebrated La Diva Corsets
fc-s
512
24-
Wbat is REROGEN <J»S
It is Petrol Air Gas (non - explosive)
produced lay a weight«driven machine.
The Ideal Light for Country Houses,
Stores, Hotels and Billiard Rooms.
The following are some of the users : —-
New South Wales Railways Departments; New
South Wales Public Works Departments; Mr. L. A.
Dangar, Warialda; Mr. D. Copland, Wagga; Mr.
J. Loneragan, Mudgee; Victorian Railway Depart-
ments; Victorian Home Affairs Departments; Sir
John Madden; Mr. H. Alan Currie; Mr. H. W.
Grimwade; Mr. Gordon Chirnside; Mr. Ernest
Austin ; Major C. Campbell.
For further particulars and catalogues apply to:
Sole Agents for Australia;
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
St. James’s Buildings, Melbourne.
Distributing Agents:
HANNAHS, Ltd., Sydney ; CIIAS. ATKINS & Co.,
- Ltd., Adelaide; ALCOCK & Co., Pty., Ltd.,
Perth; E. RICH & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W.
REID & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton; ALF SHAW,
LTD., Townsville.
in
m
Dinneford's]
Magnesia
I
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cur& for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
4S
i
¥
a
<J JMf J '. t
/tft£
To Pipe Smokers
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
©©“Obtainable only from my Stores.
4o i. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
ORDER BY MAIL—BOSTED FREE.
A. A. MARKS,
376 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Joshua’s
Boomerang
Brandy.
2v
m
v
I
U
Says Cheery Cholly: Sure fretting is folly,
The best of all comforts is handy ;
At every bar, and you needn’t go far,
For JOSHUA’S BOOMERANG BRANDY,
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, with the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction ; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. But there is one supremely effectual remedy,
but for which the world would have been a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopoeia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
for more than a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
oxMj&s
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
THE BEARD British
Built BIOSCOPE.
Here’s the last word in
Bioscope construct ion—
nothing to compare
with it at the price—
£37/10/-
To the Bio-Showman!
The KELVIN
PORTABLE
Engine 8 Dynamo
No showman wants better than
this —it’s small in price, but it’s re-
liable, too—as well as simple to
work at a low fuel consumption !
Starts easily—runs without the
least trouble, and gives full satisfac-
tion !
Two-Cylinder Engine, 50 Amps,
60 Volts, Dynamo, Shunt Regula-
tor, Switch Board, Tool Box, etc.
Quite complete, and mounted on
substantial truck, with removable
sides and top.
ASK US TO SEND YOU MAKER’S SPECIFICATION.
JERDANS
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 George Street
(Pacing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney
A Perfect Razor —THE PLUM!
The blade is a ringing hollow-ground silver steel,
so perfectly tempered that it will keep its keenness
for years —always giving a smooth, easy shave; no
dragging or pulling! We guarantee Plums for 24
months, and keep them in order free all that time!
Send for one to-day. Price 10/6, posted anywhere.
TheC & A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
nigrht; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
Send for our free
illustrated price list
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21 /-.
Sing.e Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the above Post Free.
THE PLUM nm, 10/6 Post Fres.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.


Lyric and colonial theatres,
Nos. I and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to II p.m.
PATRON I'lt I) BY 6 s«'0() PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under tlie Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specialty for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to he seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
8 international pictures, coeoniae
Theatre Buildings, 010 George St., Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their plioto plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (8) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay inanufaoturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS-EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buiali igs, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England : Dewar House, Ilaymarket.
Just address your wire- to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
HE |l MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
lessee and Manager: .1. ('. \V ILI J AMS< >N. l/ri).
THE MELBA GRAND OPERA SEASON.
A SERIES OF MAGNIFICENT SUCCESSES.
THE GREATEST MUSICAL OCCASION IN THE
HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
THURSDAY (19th), RI iOLE'L’TO.
FRIDAY (20th), LA TOSUA.
Hox Plan at Palinjf’s.
Theatre royal,, Sydney.
Lessee & M si naifer .. J. C. WILLI A MSON. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE SPECKLED BAND.
SATURD \Y NEXT, OCTOBER 21,
MR. J. O. WILLIAMSON announces a Grand Special
Revival of the Popular Melodrama,
THIS SILYKIv. KING,
with a carefully and specially chosen ALL STAR CAST.
ISox Plan at Palimr’s. Prices as usual.
Q ItITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: F. MUSGROVE.
Direction : PLAYWRIGHTS, LIMITED.
C IMMENTCING SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21,
at. 8 p.m. sharp,
Miss Maggie Moore in Mrs. M‘Sweeney,
An Australian Mu-leal Farcial Comedy in Three
Acts and “ A Bit,”
By TIIOS. E. SPENCER and TOSO TAYLOR.
THE BIG LAUGH PLAY.
COME ALONG IF YOU FEEL MISERABLE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Prices: 55., 35., Is. No Booking Fee.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Dir. i-ii 'ii and Slanairemenr, Gkorgk Marlow, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE MARLOW'S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
in the Great Australian drama,
HUMPING THE BLUEY.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door,6d. extra.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction ADLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PLIMMER-DENNISTON SEASON.
FIFTH WEEK and CONTINUED BRILLIANT
SUCCESS of
THE BEST ENGLISH PLAY OF THE YEAR,
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
Sole Proprietors—Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Limited
Governing’ Directs —Mr. James Brennan.
BRENNANS VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
ARCHIE GLEN, Comedian.
SMITE & SMOTE, Comedy Acrobats.
SARA COLLINS, Sydney’s Society Reciter.
QUEEN & LE BRUN, Pantomimic Frivolity.
WILL SULLIVAN, Lancashire Comedian.
PRICES AS USUAL.
AMATEUR TRIAL COMPETITIONS, FRIDAY
EVENINGS. Ist Prize, £2 2s. ; 2nd Prize, £1 Is.
LYCEU M,
SYDNEY.
H E
SPIiNCHR’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction : C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANCE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
g \ I) X E I GLACIABIUM.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (No extra Fee).
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Hay market, Sydney.
Direction : E. J. KILPATRICK.
HOUSE OF CONTINUOUS EXCLUSIVE
PICTURES.
ALL AUSTRALIA.
“CROWNING GLORY” BIOGRAPH CONTEST.
£4O PRIZES.
For Entrv Forms and all information address
ALHAMBRA THEATRE, SYDNEY.
The victoria, pitt street, Sydney.
Direction FRANK MUSGROVE.
a “. CONTINUOUS PHOTO-PLAY .
COOL, COMFORTABLE, SLIDING ROOFS
TO BE SEEN
“AT THE VICTORIA FIRST.”
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME TWICE
WEEKLY—MONDAYS and THURSDAY.
6d. and 3d. Chas. F. Jones, Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee : GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
in
A GIRL’S TEMPTATION.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 21.
FOR ONE WEEK ONLY.
MR. H. B. IRVING
IN
DR. JEKYLL & MR. HYDE.
Prices as Usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
JOWN
HALL., MELBOURNE.
Under direction of J. & N. Tait.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21.
FINAL APPEARANCE
BEN DAVIES, England’s Foremost Tenor,
and
ESTA d’ARGO (Hetty Holroyd),
The Brilliant Soprano.
Supported bv HERR EDWARD GOLL, Pianist.
BOX PLANS AT ALDAN’S. 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Andkkuon.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 21.
WM. ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC CO., including MISS
EUGENIE DUGGAN, in tiie Great Romantic Military
Drama,
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
■y HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE?
LAST SIX NIGHTS.
Messrs. CLARKE and MEYNELL’S NEW
OPERA CO. in
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
Plan at Allan's. PRICES AS USUAL.
OLYMPIA, OLYMPIA,
LYMPIA. MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER'S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
T HE
GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-. 1/6,
]/-, 6d. Matinees—Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
IA/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mil. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy ol Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE. SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER ”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
PILES
To those who suffer the agonising tor-
ture of Piles, a really genuine cure
comes as a boon and a blessing.
Such a remedy is
PETERS*
PILE CURE
which brings immediate releif and last-
ing cure.
Blind, Bleeding, Protru-
ding or Itching Piles
yield to its firm but soothing influence.
Made in the form of an Ointment it is
Easy to apply.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
Wilwearwel LEATHER BRACES
last a lifetime
N© Lump in Back
MOST COMFORTABLE
Interlacing at Cross allow*
greatest freedom of move-
ment. Made entirely of
fine leather, with Spring
Hooks to save unbuttoning.
Heavy 4*.. Soft ss. per pair, nostage paid.
Money back if yon say so THE
MANUi'ACTCaiNG CO., 299 ELIZABETH ST., MkIbOUBNB
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
FLEMINGTJB.
CUP WEEK. • CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY : Saturday, November 4.
CUP DAY : Tuesday, November 7.
RECORD ENTRIES.
STAKES WILL EXCEED £26,000.
OAKS DAY: Thursday, November 9.
STEEPLECHASE DAY: Saturday, November 11.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
mmmmsr,
M
f/4
* ssss.
SasSe
«■■>i V--
Si
Wfmu.
8
Repeating Rifles
BEST FOR AUS-
TRALIAN GAME
Some rifle makers are always
talking about the strength of
their product. You want
strength, yes, but accuracy and
dependability are the prime
requisites of a rifle. The espec-
ially strong points about Win-
chester rifles are their reliability and accurate shooting
qualities, but in attaining these, strength and wear-
ability have not been lost sight of. There are thousands
of Winchester rifles giving satisfactory service today
that were in use twenty years ago. Winchester rifles
are made in calibers for all kinds of shooting. The
Model 1892, made in .25-20,
.32, .38 and .44 calibers, is
widely used for " Australian
game. These rifles are not
expensive, although they
are made to get game
and stand hard usage.
For Sale By All Dealers
.«r'«
Ati-n ■
m
To JAVA,
“ The Garden of the East,”
by the
ROYAL PACKET.
Ft y*~***vjr m --iinMii'ni
Un^L^i
•"!
LI II
mm
''' . ~ -
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for . . .
Java and Singapore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Dobo and Macassai,
by the Magnificent New Steamers
Van Linschoten and Van Waerwyck.
These Steamers are specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins, all situated on the upper deck, and provided witn
electric fans and large windows. No port-holes. No inside cabins.
Spacious promenade decks.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Burns, Phllp & Co., Ltd.
FORTY-SIX REGULAR MAIL SERVICES
throughout the Thousand Islands of the Malay Archipelago. Maintained by 64 Modern
Mail Steamers. Total tonnage, 103,900 gross.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN SANDERSON & CO., Melbourne ; BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane;
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide;
EARP BROS. & CO., LTD., Newcastle.


Another
Treasure
on Australia’s Shores!
a
r*Ar;
»
VAN
HOUTENS
COCOA
BEST and GOES FARTHEST.
Ask your grocer for a gratis
Van Houten Novelty
NviNonaiM
saoHS v siooa anox
“The World's Boot Polish.”
/•HiCfls IiOS WOUVd HAIM\
r HCINH U3MI H«OOdVOAfIn»V,
wtnaa hum jLiuMvnOTivuc lUW
mm
iSNIHSHOiV
IdUUI^D
fMMJW
;£s?*og
The best *nd alio the cheeped Paste Polish on
the market for cleaning, polishing and pre-
serving all kinds of Leather Boots, Shoes, etc.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
E BROWN & SON, Ltd., LONDON, Eng.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is' in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
-XTOTICED the rt -ent increase in the bulk of
The Lone Hand ? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
will rush it. But it enables the proprietors to
give more reading matter for the same price—
Sixpence.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
BunaiD 1849 For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND 6ity S l£ U SUbUrbari Properties, or 6
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral *§? Tr^u^tH*ot'an" *Sf the^Au?
LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Directors. The Hon A. W ; Meeks. M.L.CSenator the Hon J T. *al*er ’ ffi.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNET. , H. W. ArrliKH, sec y
3 a
ROYAL
EXAMPLE
is a GUARANTEE for every purchaser of Phosferine that
the tome is the verv best obtainable, embodies the highest skill,
and being the most potent remedy, benefits everyone equally
with Rovalty. The original , and genuine preparation is spelt
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
impress of Russia
H.M. The
King of Greece
This world-renowned restorative medi-
cine has already for many years been
supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of
Russia
H.M. The Queen of Spain
H.1.1i. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of
Russia
And the Principle Royalty and
Aristocracy throughout the world
THE KING’S STATE
BARGEMASTER
Honoured by
Commands from
H.M. The
King of Spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
Mr. W. G. East, the King’s Bargemaster, writes: '‘Phosferine considerably increases one s
powers of muscular endurance. Since taking Phosferine I have been free from Neuralgia and
Influenza, and have a better appetite and sleep well, and taking it all round I am sure I owe
it to Phosferine that I keep so well as I do ; Phosferine is the only tonic that agrees with me.
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the nerYous system.
SPECIAL WARNING
Insist upon having the original and genuine Phosferine (spelt
Phosferine) as supplied to Royalty, and prepared only by
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., London. Similar names and styles are
deliberate attempts to deceive the purchaser, so do not be tricked
by, appearance and sound into buying worthless imitations of
PHOSFERINE
The real Phosferine is the Royal Tonic, which fact assures
users that it is highly commended by the greatest living physicians.
Refuse all imitations under names that may be confused with
the original and genuine Phosferine, prepared only by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director
THROW AWAY YODR PIPE
AND
SMOKE MY CIGARS
■
-
I’VE knocked around a bit over Australasia in
my time —been in the back parts of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I've mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Monaro- in the jarrah forests of
Westralia; in mining camps all over the Com-
monwealth; and everywhere Ive seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar,
Then, I’ve pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after all this,
people say to me—“ Oh, Australians won’t smoke
Cigars!”
wmT^P/,
?
iiHl
mm
I do just get riled when I
hear this, I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of my
DIADEMAS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow!
There’s nothing but To-
bacco in them —and the best
Cigar Tobacco that is grown
—the wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
all clean, straight,long Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I’ve
given them to, as I said, just
swear by my Cigars, Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
—men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit —come
to me and say—“Lookhere,
those Cigars of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city. Let us have a
box as a favor.”
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at my ex-
pense.
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
Cigars. All I want isfor you
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco—and I know you’ll be
a regular customer of mine.
I’ll post a box of 100 DIADEMAS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6of them,
and if they’re not as good as the best 6d. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I’ll return every penny of your money. I’ll
make no deduction for the Cigars you’ve smoked
There's no funny business about this offer,
mind. I’ll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If you want to know the kind of man
you’re dealing with, write to the General
Manager, the Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I’m a clean, straight chap in all
my dealings,
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEH STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
SPRING SUITINGS, in
the Latest Novelties,
now opened up.
David Braham 8 Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.


TRODT TACKLE!
1^
We are Australia’s LARGEST Wholesale
and Retail Fishing Tackle Distributors.
Stockists of High-Class Fishing Tackle.
RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Rods, 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,
steel centre, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge and
end rings, etc. Highest quality i</10/-.
No. l. Split Cane Rods, 101 and 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, steel
centre, cork grip, lock joints, bridge rings, etc. £□/10/-.
No. 5. Split Cane Rods, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
lock joints, serrated ferrules, snake rings, etc. £2/15/-.
The M.S. Split Cane Ply Rods, 10* and 11 feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, snake rings, etc.
Splendid value £ ~
No. 10F. Short, Jointed Split Cane Rods, 10* feet, 5 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, welted ferrules, double brazed, 21/-.
The M.S. Guinea Greenheart Rods, 10* and 11 feet, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, snake rings, stained olive green,
splendid value 21/-.
No. 11. Split Cane Rods, 10i feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, welted ferrules, nickel fittings, good value .. 18/6.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as IS TESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
Creels, Bags, Gaffs, Spinners. Casts, Fly Books and Boxes,
Flies, etc., etc., in endless variety.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
REELS.
The M.S. “Perfection” Trout Reels, with tension screw and
contracted drum —a perfect reel — 3 inch, 25/-, 3 a m.
30/- each.
The “i.'X.li.” Trout Reels, made of best aluminium, op-
tional check, large drum for quick winding, oscillating
line guard and front brake. An excellent reel:
3 inch, 25/-.; 31 inch, 27/6; 31 inch, 30/- each.
The M.S. Rotary Check Reels, ebonite back, wire drum toi
rapid winding—a liigb-class reel;
21 inch, 13/6; 22 inch, 15/6; 3 inch, 17/6 each.
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE.
TROUT LINES.
“Kingfisher” Plaited Silk Lines.
Double Tapered, 30 yards, No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6 each.
Double Tapered, 40 yards, No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No. 3,
13/6 each.
“Perfect” Waterproof Plaited Silk Lines.
A good quality level line, made specially for us.
No. 40. 25 yards, 2/6; 60 yards, 5/- each.
No. 30. 25 yards, 3/-; 50 yards, 6/- each.
LANDING NETS.
The M.S. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net, highly finished,
a splendid net 17/6 each.
The “X.L.” Collapsible Net, telescopic handle, superior
quality, net and belt clip 14/6 each.
“The Best House for ALL ANGLING REQUISITES,”
Head Distributing Depot-
SUNDRIES.
No. 1. Cast Books, with parchment pockets */- each.
No. 2 Aluminium Cast Boxes, very light ........ eacn.
No. 6. Japanned Eyed Ely Boxes, fitted with steel spring
clips, mounted to xylonite: ,
51 clips, 4/6; 85 clips, 5/6; 119 clips, 7/- each.
Spinning Head Elies 1/6 and 1/8 each.
Rouke Trout Spinners, a splendid line • "d. eacn.
The New Pearl Flash, an excellent bait .. 6d. and 9d. each.
Best Trout Elies, from 2/- per dozen.
WE ARE RECOGNISED AS THE HOUSE
THAT SELLS THE BEST TACKLE.
Telescopic Gaffs, one and two slide..7/6, 12/6 and iV® eaeb.
Best Waterproof Wading: Trousers, light make, made ot
superior steamed Cashmere, all sizes in stock. _
10, lOi, 11, 11J and 12 inch foot • • 45/- pair.
Heavier Make, all sizes • ■ • ■
Fishing Brogues, made from good-quality leather, with
canvas uppers, all sizes pair.
Red Hoop Tapered Gut Casts, something new in casts
which we can recommend •••••„■ y”
Hercules Tapered Gut Casts, 3 yards long, 1/3 & 1/9 each.
Write for a Copy of our “AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE
CATALOGUE’’-THE BEST EVER PUBLISHED.
Haymarket, Sydney
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
llf
0
Is the most perfect Preservative tor the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
Aall
u
99
Underwear,
SocKs and
StocKings.
For Men, Ladies, and Children.
The beautiful texture of Australasian wool
is at its best in "J 222 &. It is not made
harsh by the process of rendering
it unshrinkable. On the contrary, it
retains to the full the soft fleeciness of
the natural wool. Hence there is no
better wear than . Why not
wear it ? It costs no more than other
all-wool hosiery.
yy** Stockists. Socks and Underwear iot M«a,
Ladies 8c Children. In all prices. "foL&OTI*
made Jerseys for Children are splendid
wear. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers and Store*.
If your dealer does not stock Jason he can
obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “Jason"
booklet and name of nearest agent to—
JASON HOSIERY Co..
Leicester. England.
m
:
50,000 WATCHES
TO BE SENT OUT.
Deposit 2/6 Deposit
Gent’s Solid Silver Keyless full capped Hunting
Lever Watch, jewelled movement, guaranteed 10
years. Just as an advertisement, we send this
watch to any address in Australia on receipt of 2/6
deposit, and upon the payment of the last of 17
weekly Instalments of 1/- each, making a total of
19/6 in all, a handsome gold-cased chain is
GIVEN FREE.
If not satisfied that any watch we supply is worth double
the price we ask, send it back, and we will refund every
penny you have paid. Send 2/6 to-day, keeping the
number of your P.N. ; postage 4d. extra.
NORMAN FRANK <SL CO.
Mall Order
Department.
Cl, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
Bankers—Commercial Banking Co., Sydney.
JUST AS AW ADVERTISEMENT 1
5/- Deposit, 2/6 Per Week.
A 70/- suit col-
. . . FOR. V^/
Sent (Post Paid) to Your Door.
Send us your name and address, and we will forward you free patterns
of our 50/- Suits and Fashion Plates. You will be delighted with
what we send, and you need not return the samples even if you do not
order a suit.
NORMAN FRANK & CO.,
Dept. Cl, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bankers: The Commercial Banking Co., Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1 s 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal ls
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the.
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d,
m
M
m
m
mmim
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ir-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblf.es’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor • Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |[dr Established 25 1 ectTs.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
-16 Park Street, Sydney
(only).
ONLY A SnALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Soxa
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. «■
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 wkw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus. , leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and *
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, ciotn
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAI.


Dyspepsia
Tortured by Wind Round the Heart—Skin Became
Sallow—Awful Complications Made Life a Burden.
Bile Beans are Invaluable in Mature Age
FOR all complications arising from
stomach and liver trouble, Bile
Beans are a sure and effective
remedy. Mr. H. Bannister, of Potts
Street, East Brisbane, Q., says:—
“Severe attacks of dyspepsia and acute bilious
bouts, followed by terrible pains in the head,
made my life a misery. My whole system would
be shaken and strained by fits of retching, liile
accumulated until it overflowed and caused me
much unpleasantness. My skin assumed an un-
natural yellow tint, and I always felt drowsy,
especially so after meals. Wind around the
heart, and pains in the chest and shoulders, all
added to my suffering, and, while these bouts
were on, my condition was very bad. After try-
ing a number of medicines, from which no good
resulted, I was persuaded to commence a course
of Bile Beans. I did so, and soon noticed that
the headaches and pains quickly disappeared.
After each dose I felt a corresponding benefit,
until, after' a thorough course of Bile Beans, I
was once more enjoying perfect health, and I
have never been troubled with sickness since.
Although I have led a very strenuous life, now,
at 62 years of age, I feel in splendid condition.
“My wife, when at all out of sorts, takes a dose or two of Bile Beans, and
they soon put her right. She has also found them splendid for headaches.
Every worker should always keep a box of Bile Beans near at hand. A dose or
two. on the slightest sign of any stomach trouble, will speedily put things right.
I
55
1
1
J?,/'
WM
o'. 7 :
'\:,i r?-**
'V
wm
'i( f
'i/,\
i' \ uii,v 'vazxNiuim
< Mr. BANNISTER, completely \
' cured by Bile Beans. >
The Standard Family Medicine.
u
o
B
cans
Bile Beans, being
mild in action, are
especially suitable
for children. All
mothers should keep
a box in the home,
for a dose or two in
time may prevent
much suffering and
expense. Bile Beans
are a fine tonic for
the jaded worker,
and the surest speci-
fic for all liver and
stomach troubles. Ob-
tainable of all chem-
ists and stores, \/\\
and 2/9 per box.
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day»
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally— you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
. i ' V '■■. J t • .7 '• ■' .
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Roly and the Burr.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
roly-poly is no common, inani-
mate thing. In its early stages,
when it is green and growing, it is a
peaceful, sociable sort of plant. Considered
in comparison with its frequent associate,
the Bathurst burr, which is a hostile, sel-
fish vegetable, it may be regarded as almost
friendly. It hurts nobody who stumbles
into it; the only objection is that it is a
useless land-grabber, whose address can’t be
depended on. All the same, were it content
to die and rot away on the spot, when its
season is over, no one would make any
great fuss about it.
The Bathurst burr is always hardy and
vigorous, for only its own kind can restrict
its room and stint its growth. It grows
anywhere, seeds in great profusion, and is
solely and wholly concerned in making it-
self a nuisance to all and sundry. The
seeds are thickly covered with little spines,
which cling to anything that touches them.
They attach themselves to the clothes of the
unwary, to the fur of the rabbit and mar-
supial, to the hair of the dog, and to the
tail of the horse or the bovine—all excellent
vehicles whereby to reach new country and
become a greater nuisance. On the sheep’s
coat and the traveller’s blanket they cluster
in matted heaps, provoking bad language
among a host of people. Some plant seeds,
as thistle-down, are fashioned to be borne
abroad by the wind ; others, as prickly pear
and inkweed, are fitted to be carried far and
wide by birds; but the burr has more ways
of getting around and discovering salubrious
climates than any other plant in the land.
Cats’-eggs and burr seeds are the pet
agents of the school-boy. Of the two he pre-
fers the latter. If he succeeds in dropping
i few down his companion’s neck, or rolling
some into his hair, he will go home in high
dee, and have pleasant dreams. Those
seeds ball up so in your cranial thatch that
the least painful way to effect a separation
is to get your hair cut.
If, by mischance, you stumble into the
aush, the damage you will do to it
will be nothing compared to the damage
Fou wall sustain. Whilst it will recover
piickly from the assault and battery, you
will be picking out prickles, nursing wounds,
ind making stringent remarks about the ob-
loxious thing for a fortnight. Still, it can
ie avoided with ordinary precautions, and
it doesn’t set up to be anything but a burr.
But the roly-poly pursues you across the
iandscape, bumping against you in unex-
pected places, in all manner of nooks and
corners. Other weed pests, when they die,
have the decency to remain dead; but the
roly gets up and walks. Breaking away
from its root, it gathers up the dry blades
if grass and herbage it rolls upon, till it be-
comes a big white ball. Then it sets out
to see the country, and to sow the remainder
of its seeds over hill and dale. Hundreds of
miles it may roll before dropping finally into
an excavated tank, or lodging against a
fence, where it helps to form an incline for
others to travel over.
It is a humorous curse. You hear a
Westerner allude to it as the “Devil’s Own,”
and before long you are brought to think
that the pronouncement is more than a mere
figure of speech. He comes to speak of it
as though it were some reasoning animal, or
as if he believed that a mischievous, impish
spirit, whose main object was to have a high
old time at his expense, had found lodg-
ment therein.
Three people, strongly imbued with this
idea, were Joe Steel, Bob Sharkey and
“Mulga Jack” Blunt. Joe was a boundary-
rider. His hut was near the edge of a
seven-mile plain. On the other side was a
pubbery, where he occasionally spent a Sat-
urday evening. He was riding home one
moonlight night, when a roly, starting sud-
denly from behind a bush, rolled across the
track under his horse’s nose. The half-
dozing animal woke up with a shock that
toppled Joe out of the saddle. For a little
while he sat on the ground; then, instead of
going after his horse, he set sail in pursuit
of the wandering herb. A strong puff of
wind carried it merrily along, springing and
bounding like a thing of life. With loud
whoops and a stream of caustic language,
Joe ran it down and jumped on it with en-
thusiasm. Telling about it afterwards, he
said: ‘‘You could see th’ dashed thing
laughin’ at me as it rolled away.”
“Mulga Jack” was employed as bullock-
driver and rouseabout on the same run. One
of his duties was to run in killing sheep out
of a big paddock. Riding across the same
paddock one day, I found him busily can-
tering about a level stretch over which many
big white rolies were scattered. Into each
one he dropped a lighted match. “Hulloa,
Jack!” I said. “Burning off?” “Ain’t it
time?” he demanded, fiercely. “When a
man comes miles out of his way to muster
th’ damn things, thinkin’ they’re sheep, am t
it time? They’re always foolin’ me; an’
they never let up that they’re nothing but
blasted weeds till you’re right on top of
’em.”
Jack had good cause to be annoyed. -Not
long before, while helping to drive some
sheep home rather late, he had made him-
self the laughing-stock of the station. When
nearing the yard, a roly that had been
kicked from its anchorage started away at
right angles to the mob. Mistaking it in
the dusk for a breaking woolly, Jack set
after it at full gallop, at the same time
shouting to his dog to “fetch him back.
Only when he had headed the object did he
realise what his mates were laughing at.
To Bob Sharkey, the drover, the rolies
were a source of annoyance when watching
sheep on camp at night. In the starlight,
with a stiff breeze blowing, they looked like
jumbucks making off. Consequently, Bob
put in an anxious time on watch, besides
doing a lot of useless riding about. Rolies
trundling on to the camp also disturbed the
mob. When the light was bad and the
rolies numerous, he was often doubtful
which was which. This state of anxiety
was brought about by a misadventure during
his first trip across the infested country.
The sheep had been camped near the junc-
tion of two creeks. Bob had last watch, and,
when morning broke, he found he had been
minding a patch of rolies, while the sheep
had gone back to the Inst fenc«.
The roly is an Australian, and, like most
indigenous plants of the obnoxious order, it
does its mischief in a good-humored way that
makes you laugh and swear by turns. The
stinging tree and the lawyer vine are un-
pleasant things to get mixed up with; but
these keep out of the way in dark scrubs,
and, when your business takes you there, and
they get hold of you, though you perform
a perisher for a minute, you see the “joke
immediately afterwards. Most bushmen are
tolerant in their bearing towards them,
abusing the “damn things” with a smile. But
the burr is detested. Like the prickly pear,
it is a vicious, encumbering horror, with
absolutely no redeeming features. Yet it
has friends. It provides a few hard-up
wanderers with an annual job. Burr-cut-
ting is an industry in some parts, having
its followers the same as cane-cutting, shear-
ing and fruit-picking. These men under-
stand the habits of the prickly nightmare.
They know on what runs, and at what time,
to look for the job. They speak kindly of
the burr. The old warriors leave a stud
plant here and there, so that the species will
not become extinct. It has been a friend
to them, therefore they would be sorry to see
it go. . , ,
One of the profession, who was known as
Jimmy-the-Kat, looked upon certain infested
areas as his special preserves. When put
in a paddock with a hoe, Jimmy was at
home and happy. He had been brought
up on a farm, he used to say; so the love
of agriculture was born in him. lhe nuis-
ance was no sooner showing above the her-
bage, than he was on the scene. One year,
on applying to Squatter McNabb, he was
told that the burrs were not big enough.
“And,” added Mac, “th’ crop is only a
varra sma’ one yet, Jimmy.” Jimmy didn t
like to go away. For one thing, his boots
were done, and he was afraid someone else
might get the job. So he made a camp not
far from the homestead.
On the following afternoon, while riding
through the paddocks, McNabb noticed
Jimmy dodging about with a bucket and
a pannikin. A little puzzled, he rode up.
Jimmy appeared not to notice him. He was
now on his knees, and irito a little trench
encircling a burr he was pouring pannikins
of water. . , .
“What are ye doin’, mon? Mac asked
at last. . , , „
“Makin’ the burrs big enough to cut.
Jimmy didn’t look up. He continued
watering. McNabb took a tighter grip ot
his reins.
“For what?” he roared.
“I want to be gettin’ along, Jimmy ex-
plained, “but I don’t like leavin’ burrs be-
k*"“Wuf— dom ye!” said Mac; “go and get a
lH> lt was a countryman of McNabb’s wb<
introduced Jimmy’s friend to Australia. He
had transplanted himself near Bathurst, and
pining for something he had been used to,
he sent home for some seeds ot Scotch wild
flowers. These were sown in specially-pre-
pared ground, and in due course,
other things, up came the rampant burr.
The introducer was charmed; it looked so
home-like. He brought his brother Scots to
see it; and they, being likewise charmed,
made early requests for seeds. Alack. tin
wretched weed took kindly to the new land,
and everybody got seeds, even people who
weren’t expecting any. I am not sure it the
Scotch thistle emanated from the same
packet; anyhow, it was another gem, the
emblem of home and mother and venerable
memories, that lang; syne brought comfort to
Sandy and Donald.
Though no plant possesses the resources ot
the burr in the matter of dissemination, there
are odd individuals who seem to think that it
doesn’t spread over the country half quickly
enough. One such was Brumby George.
Passing once through Thompson s place,
he came upon a patch of strong; bushes, well
seeded. “By gum,” he said with mixed feel-
ings, “that’s a fine crop—in a bad place.
Hungry Thompson don’t spend nuthin.lqn
burrs —an’ he’s well choked up already.
Now there’s Jobson, of Gidgeebroon, owns
10 times more property than Thompson-! an.
ain’t got a burr!” . , . .
Then he dropped his bundle, and donning
a pair of leather gloves, set patiently to work
to collect the atrocious seeds.
“He won’t pay me for th trouble, Hungry
Thompson won’t,” he remarked as he trans-
ferred them to a canvas bag; an yet bell
be choked clean out in another five years it
all th’ seeds is allowed to grow ’ere. 1 don t
owe him nuthin’, but I don’t like to see good
lanci bein’ ruined an’ not a hand stretched
out to save it.”
He picked and picked, till his bag was halt
full musing as he shook it down that manj
a good action goes unrecorded and unre-
Wa A d day or so later he presented himself at
Gidgeebroon.
“Good day, Mr. Jobson.
“Good day.”
“I hear you’re buyin’ seeds.
“What seeds?”
“Burr seeds—Bathurst burr.
“Buying them !” cried Jobson. yv hat the
h— would Ibe buying the d — infliction
f ° “To prevent ’em growin’ an’ spreadin’, I
s’pose,” said Brumby. “They’re terrible
things to travel if they’re not gathered up. ;
“There’s none to gather up on this run,
Jobson declared. “None whatever. .
“Well,” said Brumby, in a disappointed,
injured sort of way, “I was told by a couple
of chaps I met that it was your run where
they was growin’, an’ that Id get a weeks
rations for collectin’ th’ seeds. If Ive been
misinformed, I s’pose I’ll ave to throw em
away.” Brumby w r eighed the bag in his
hand, looking at it regretfully. I went to a
lot of trouble gatherin’ ’em, too, he con-
“ Let me see them.” Jobson reached out
eagerly for the bag. , , ...
“What’s th’ price?” asked Brumby, hold-
ing it behind him.
For a moment Jobson was speechless, rie
understood at once what sort of person
Brumby was; and he was terribly anxious
lest one of those awful seeds should get
astray. . . .. ,
Then he said quietly, while his eyes blazed,
and his face assumed an apoplectic hue,
“Fetch them into the store.”
On entering the grocery establishment his
temper left him. “Here’s the bins, he said.
“Help yourself while I burn these things.
He went out with the seeds, pulling the door
to. Three minutes later the bookkeeper and
the groom, who had been sent to empty a
bag of flour, found Brumby helping himsell
most liberally. 5 .
He was explaining to them when Jobson
returned, after which explanations and ex-
postulations were equally wasted. Jobson
had forgotten all about the deal.
Subsequently Brumby was arrested tor
burglary, and got six months.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


DO YOU FEEL LIKE GIVING UP?
Does your back ache constantly ? Do you feel dull, miserable
and tired all the time ? Do you wonder why ordinary daily duties
wear you out ? Do you have “ blue ” days and restless nights ?
Kidney sickness silently plays out the strongest person. A
dull, draggy ache in the small of the back will tell on the healthiest
man or woman. And if the kidneys fail in their task of filtering
uric acid poisons from the blood, it leads to painful attacks of
neuralgia, rheumatism, sciatica, gravel, headaches—to worrying
attacks of dizziness, nervousness, heart palpitation, scanty,
painful and too frequent urination.
Don t neglect weak kidneys. There is danger of running
gradually into dropsy, Bright’s Disease or diabetes. At the first sign
of backache or disorders of the urine, use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. A remedy that has cured your neighbors will cure you.
Proved by SYDNEY Testimony*
Mrs. M. Portors, Wellington Street, North Botany, Sydney, says:—“l had marked symptoms of
kidney trouble for two years. I had dull, tired feelings, headaches, and such severe backache that I
could scarcely get about. The secretions were seriously affected, being thick and cloudy. The pains
m my back were terrible; they sometimes went up between my shoulders, and nobody knows the
agony I suffered. But my worst suffering was with dropsy. At times I would not be able to
leave my bed, and once I was laid up for three months. I almost despaired of ever getting well
again, as I had used so many remedies without getting any relief. When a friend advised me to use
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I did not have much hope that they would cure me; but got a bottle
just to please her. After taking the one bottle my back felt a little easier, and I continued using
them. Gradually the headaches and backaches left me, and the swelling in my legs went down The
secretions became clear and regular, and I lost the tired-out, languid feeling. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have restored me to health, and I never thought I would be well again My cure did
not happen yesterday, but five years ago, and, as I have been quite well all that time, can safely
say that I am cured for good.”
For sale by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 a bottle (six bottles, 15/3),
or post free from FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
BnHmnDHnHi
Backache
PHIS
Every Picture Tells A Story.’
\4
ir>
\Kr
- *S-
*
5* <t
x x
inr^
1
wrrfllHT
Wv
V
.A
'-r
r. ‘ 1 w*. -V, •■
i*-!?
ffiWrfmn
Jones’s Selection; a Kiandra
Man’s Yarn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU hear a lot of new-chum talk
Of “goin’ on the land” —
Of growin’ oats an’ wheat, an’ sich,
On rocks an’ flamin’ sand.
I ’ates exaggerated skite,
But, if yer likes, I can
Authenticate a case in which
The land went on the man.
Bill Jones ’e ’ad a mountain block
Up Kosciusko way;
He farmed it pretty nigh to death,
The neighbors used to say.
He scarified the surface with
His double-furrow ploughs,
An’ ate its suff’rin heart right out
With sheep an’ milkin’ cows;
He filled its blamed intestines up
With agricult’ral pipes,
An’ lime, and superphosphates—fit
To give the land the gripes—
Until at length the tortured soil,
YVorn out with Jones’s thrift,
Decided as the time was come
To up an’ make a shift.
One day the mountain shook itself,
An’ give a sort o’ groan ;
The neighbors was a lot more scared
Than they was game to own.
Their jaws were dropped upon their chests,
Their eyes was opened wide;
They saw the whole of Jones’s farm
Upend itself an’ slide.
It slithered down the mountain spur,
Majestic like an’ slow,
An’ landed in the river-bed
A thousand feet below.
Bill Jones was on the lower slopes
Of his long-sufferin’ farm
A-testin’ some new-fangled plough
Which acted like a charm.
He’d just lieen screwin’ np a nut
When somethin’ seemed to crack,
An’ fifty acres, more or less,
Come down on Jones’s back.
’Twas sudden-like, a shake, a crack,
A slitherin’ slide, an’ Bill
Was buried fifty feet below
The soil he used to till.
One moment Bill was standin’ up
A-ownin’ all that land,
The next ’e’s in Eternity—
A spanner in ’is ’and !
They never dug up no remains
Nor scraps of William Jones;
The superphosphates eat the lot —
Hide, buttons, boots and bones.
For this hero land wot Jones abused
And harassed in the past
’Ad turned an’ wiped ’im out, so things
Got levelled up at last.
From this untimely end o’ Bill
It would perhaps appear
'That goin’ free-selectin’ ain’t
All skittles, no, nor beer.
So all you cocky city coves
Wot’s savin’ up yer screw
'To get upon the land, look out
The land don’t get on you.
JM.S.W.
IRONBARK.
Commerce.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were walking in Flinders-lane—
sacred to the men of rag's. My
friend the Austrian refused to
consider seriously these Merchant Princes or
their little intelligences which make epochs
of such things as “Thief, Beast and Co.’s
Fire Salvage Sale,” and consider a sharp
purchase of a job lot of blankets as nothing
Hess than epic. According to the Austrian
there is nothing w>orth thought but Art, and
when I remarked that Trade means not so
much Intelligence as Cunning, he said that I
Ibut begged the question. Further cross-
examined, he admitted one foolish and un-
successful excursion into Trade, and re-
marked that the result was justly expect-
able. He regarded it as the punishment that
belongs to the artist who dips into sordid
things.
“When was it?” I asked, and he replied,
"“In eighteen-ninety-free.”
I remembered the time —when paper banks
•and paper fortunes shrivelled like dead
leaves in a furnace; and I pressed for par-
ticulars.
“It is in Wienna,” said my friend the Aus-
trian, “dot I hear of Owsdralia. A frient
•dere he tell me, ‘You go to Melpourne, and
.you ask for der Turn-Ferein, und you get a
.job quick.’ I gome to Owsdralia—l know of
von vordt, und it is ‘blease.’ I say ‘blease’ to
•eferybody und eferyting. I say ‘blease’ to
der stewarts, und I say ‘blease’ to der bart-
a-oom, und ‘blease’ to der deck ; und I say
‘blease’ to eferybody from Trieste to Nables,
und from Nables to Pord Melpourne. I gome
up by der dram to Brinces Bridtch, und I
say to a bolisman, ‘Blease —Turn-Ferein,
blease,’ und he say, ‘Go avay or I pood you
vere I foundt you.’ I dink dis is hard-
hearted vorldt, and I go along to Ladrobe-
sdreet to see if der vorldt dere is softer. Und
I see anoder bolisman, und I say, ‘Blease,
Turn-Ferein, blease’; und this von say, ‘You
mean the Turn-Verein. Why don’t you
foreigners learn der langwitch? Del* Turn-
Verein is up there.’ So I say '‘bleh.se’ again,
und I go to der Turn-Ferein, ufid dot night i
am playing mit Flock's
. .?,^ e ‘ -- 6 " brudder.
\\e lit m a little gotthgO m Darldon—near a
bub. We gedt eigdiVd bounds a week each,
und we lif deli* gfiy life, und sbend id At our
gottage We haf beer—mid friendts. We haf
i .. i •% i. _
de V garlic sausage und beer; und lieberwurst
und blutavurst und beer; und many, many
friendts we haf, andt higgled gugumbers.
szi v?fT ai -
free. It was der baddle of \ aterloo for ta&fi.y
beople dot haf millions of boundts all written
oudt very nizely on bieces of baper—goot for
to lide your bipe rnidt. Dot me und my brud-
if X - . i y .
dei it was der Battle of Waterloo und der
Redreat from Mosgow, und der sagking of
Rome all mixed all togedder.
■“• Nobody vants der muzick—nobody van Is
to dance or to Z ins-and eferypody !«
mg Ilantel s Deadt March veddet dey can
blay or not; so der is nodibg. Vo are oudt
of a job. All our beer is gone, all out
friendts is gone, und der lasdt biggled gugum-
b “ [* ***** jf *"4 b ' 3 "“ d \ “*, *»
say to der lady dot geep der bub heat ‘out
gottage, we say, ‘What We do now?’ fin'd
she asgk if We want to go into goMtfe'rce. 1
say, ‘What is dis gommerce?'’ And she say,
•Dot batting wo *, is to W a milgk walk.-
1 say, What «s dis milgk walk? Und she
say, we buy der pusiness of a Milgk-oh mit
a lot of gustomers alretty, und it gost ein-
huunerd und fifdv boundts. Afeter I haf
gently toldt der lady of der bub dat we haf
zwelf bounds of real money und a few mil-
lions to lide der bipes mit, she say we must
buy a gow und try to findt new gustomers
und work our way up. Der only ting we
know about a gow is that its voice is not
muzigal. But we go to Kirk’s Baaaar and
buy a gow for sefen boundts—der maddest
gow in der vorldt. We pay half a grown for
a balder for der gow’s face, und von shilling
for a ship’s gable to tie to der halder, be-
cause we vas too frightened to gett up too
glose to der gow’s face. I say to my brud-
der, ‘Dis gow is not a deedodaller—his eyes
was too redt.’ He was der maddest gow in
all der vorldt. But he haf very latteh
bosoms, und we tina ve vill gett rifitch mit
milgk; so ve lead him along Liddle Bourg-
sdreet, und he tie us up foundt verandah
hosts, und run round d'elegraph boles und
meed us der oderside, und his eyes gett reter
und retter. We are nearly gilled when We
get him to der gottage. We arrainch that my
brudder shall gett him his foodts and milgk
him, und I shall take oudt der milk in two
gans nut a leedle yoke for my shoulters. Und
all dot afdernoon und efening my brudder
try to milgk der gow, and I rehearse my baft
pn ' Milgk-o-o-o-o-h . Miigk-'O-o-o-
oa ( * (T l lke dot- . ,
Der gow is getting very ankry by dea-
dime. His eyes is retter, Und he vill nod
allow himselfs to be milgked. He eat all der
salad garden—two dozen ledduces und a plot
of spring onions aboudt der size of a big
man’s grave — und he eat all we gif him, und
then he would eat u|, |jiA Yve hire too kreen
My brudder say it is better if we give der
|so.w fotrife beer; but I will not. I offer to
clay Schumann, Beethoven —anybody to dot
gow, but I will not waste goot beer.
“At ten o’glock dot night we gif him up in
disgusd, und I hit him on der nose mit der
manuscripd of some pand harts, und we haf
some beer, und stay up lade and drink to
drown der memories of him. So in der morn*
ingk it is lialUpasdt ten o’glock before we
are up oud of bedt. Der gow is waidihg fttf
us; he is zingingk in a minor key, Und I sa.V
to tny brudder: 'Lisden!. He is bi-hgtisihg it
Hungarian Folk-Sodgi’ But he say der gow
is now ( hlretty to be milgked because his
bOsOmS is too lartch und is making him pain;
und my brudder fooded him, und he let him-
self be milgked. Dere is whide stuff like
thick borax soap sudts in der gan to brove ib
Then I take a longk breath—der gtirtaitt
aboudt to go up—d.el’ Otg'bstrh is i-uiig id—
and I say to to.yself v *Db I know my baft?’
Veli> der drummer id der orgestra whed he
h;ave do , music he peadt det dt-ulni dll der
dime, and so vili r.
“It is elefed O’glOck .wbed i gedt oudt id
det sdreet mit der milgk. It does n'ot stjrike
me at der time that elefeh o’ghkk is tod lid'fe
to sell milgk fof ‘der breakfast ‘of det w'prfi'-
mgmari, lin'd that id is , tdo 'early tot Uea-
dime. I gO pd'db DeV lady at der bub is
at der par door, und she smile at
me eflgouragements. Und I say to my-
Self, ‘Ye are now pusiness men—dis is gom-
merce.’ All der working man’s vifes lean
over der frond gades talking aboudt dem-
selves und oder beople. ‘Haf you heardt that
Mrs. Yones’ husbandt slab her face for vear-
ing obenvork stogkings?’ und things like dot.
Und then I see the fatal moment is arrived.
It was like der gurtain is up in der thatre,
und thousandts of beople are gomittg to my
dayboo. I see all det beople in der sdreet is
loogking at me, I feel I am in ‘La Scala—
primo tenore in a new obera beforg all der
growned faces of Eurobe, und I haf forgotten
der holes, t try to speagk my bart. i tty
to say, ‘Milgk-o-O-oh I'. Uhd t gannOt utter a
vordt. I haf StaitCh fri'de. 1 go to det bub
and buy some turn, und me and my brudder
we dringk der milgk.
“Der gOw’s eyes is tetter, u'ndt biS bosoms
is lartcher, und he YvftS madder, dan OVef,
undt we leadt him down der zity dro'O forests
of telegraph boles, undt wO gurse him un'd
zel‘l him for fife boundts. UP den der gow
he was quite madt —his vani'dy Was ihChuted
because we lose two bOundts On him. Andt
we say, ‘Better staff dt Aft than to ip gOihr
merce.’ D'ornmefeC is for low, iminteliegijal
beople. k Doogk at them aroundt uS —lee'dle
bdople in der pig offises —zwelf storieS high-,
u'ndt nefer der heartleab that Art, cPP get
der artist. You gan Wot knOW how our
heartz shall leap der ddy We zell der ret-eyed
gow mit der lartch bosoms.”
Not,-aft bour later a bright-eyed young
friend in the produce line told me of a Napo-
leonic deal he had just made in eggs—us if
he were Columbus rediscovering America.
And while sizing up these facts the bright-
eyed young friend in the produce trade re-
peated his tale of triumph, and gave the
story a pendant.
“Three thousand dozen at sixpence!” he
said. “I tell you I’m an artist at this game. ’
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


- W estinghouse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing, with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No-skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westmghcuse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Live in Comfort
in the Hot Weather
IT COSTS VERY LITTLE FOR OUR FANS.
THEY RUN FOR SEVERAL HOURS for Id.
W. G. WATSON 8 CO., LTD.,
171 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST PLANT-WELL ORGANISED !
In every phase of removal and carrying work, we are experts.
We have spacious storage accommodation, large vans, and small carts
manned'by experienced men. We can save YOU time, trouble and
money. May we send you a quote ? ’Phone City 1290.
SANDERS, SUTTON & WHITEHEAD LTD.,
Removal, Storage and Carrying Experts,
HEAD OFFICE 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOTS: Chatswood, Mosman. Waverley, Burwootl, Dulwich Hill,
Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly.
FARMER'S
FRIEND...
GUARANTEED TWO YEARS.
OIL
& '' -
This is our
4-h.p. Portable
Wood Saw
Outfit.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal <juality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES.
Get their prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense
sale, and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
2-h.p. Stationary, £25; Portable, £32
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by usi.
Small Deposit.
Long Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Head
Off lee:
fpHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
■p- a .PPear in The Lone Hand each month.
rtlce sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The. Lone Hand.
looK Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
yo.ir vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you shoutd, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
Talfe
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
*
Sold everywhere la boxes, price Hl\ (56 pills) <£■ 2/9 (168 pills).
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOUkD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Palmer's Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
r- AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale.
Dog Head Stout.
Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
The
Good
Samaritan
JUST
IN
>TIME
<s
)
77
32
BRONCHITIS CURE
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS and COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES


AECHSTEOTS specify
and have a F'ire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for mir Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Electric Generating: Sets, Steam, Oil
and Petrol; and Storage Batteries,
with all necessary fittings,
Lamps, etc., for complete installations.
Write for particulars to
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cimint (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwelling's, Theatres, Halls
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME,
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole importers—4
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney, i
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
“McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS
For Steam, Oil or Gas Engines and Ammonia Compressors.
The Most Extensively Used Indicator on the Market.
LARGE STOCK OF INDICATORS and ACCESSORIES CARRIED.
For ascertaining the Brake or Effective Horse-powei
Steam, Oil or Gas Engines and Electric Motors.
SELLERS' PATENT PORTABLE DYNAMOMETERS
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR LTD., *2 Pitt St., Sydney.
Prell’s Buildings, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&C.j &G.
MEPBAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
(MEPHAN FERGUSON
ROBERT SHAND
Head Office and Works:
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
AUTOMATIC
"ELECTRIC PLANTS.
PREMIER
"ACCUMULATORS.
MONARCH
IfI YACUUM CLEANERS.
Electric
ELEVATORS.
WARBURTON, FRANRI, LTD., 307-11 Kent Street. SYDNEY. 454 Flinders Street. MELBOURNE.
Horse power HOISTING WHIM
Small , Light, Easily Handled and Durable Machine, well designed
for iVlmm 9 Purposes or Raising Coal or Water from a Shaft. Will raise
se ‘' en hundred pounds, 60 to 70 feet per minute. Drum carries
> ft. or more 5 8 Steel Wire Rope. No piece weighs over 2501 b.
FULL PARTICULARS GLADLY FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURED BY
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants, 60 ClareilCG Street, Sydney.
BRUCE PEEBLES & CO. LTD.,
EDINBURGH.
Alternating & Direct Current Machines for All Systems & Voltages.
29 Motors of this Type supplied to
THE BRITISH BROKEN HILL PROPTY. CO.
MOTOR CONVERTERS
(La cour Pat s, TURBO-ALTERNATORS.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
w m
w
