

He EMBODIMENT OF
”'• * :'V
ZC. G. 42. CO.,
107 IKexxt Sydney,
'■' A h\' ' . % . ' —FOB- —*
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
.Sxi&k, tr ter
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
Economy in Labor. Increased Output.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent; C.C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
•*]» ■■*'■'fc-«»4aSh»i« Jb«L ■#
—WPS— ~
Orient fiotel.
PIONEEI>
LEATHER BELTING
Gparantbhd.
«/. C. Ludowici & Son, Lcf.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
4
Take it. back,
I must have
HUTTONS
inc Apple Srahd
BACON.
CHUBB’S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets ia
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
I_
U
HANSEN’S
sg
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 F/rst-Class Prixe Medals.
co ta&s
UyCkXaKtf CutfC Mss Xjuitia. X/b&cC Q&uO
/n/fs tv* i
>VVv>V>/
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And ait MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
r^v-r-\
V: ’ '
! R
OR ALL SERVIC
Wk
.
Send eor
| Si:
\ 9 Sole Australian Representatives, 52 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
WHEN YOU CONTEMPLATE BUILDING
WRITE US ABOUT
MALTHOID
It is a Roofing that Excels all others from Every Standpoint.
the PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.—D, S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKINC PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
sfd
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L Ti?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
KUPPER LAGER.
HEUDON SPA
H ELI DON SPA performs a primary f unction.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
S IttILORAN, Ltd..
Ageats.
The Bulletin
V0J.32.—N0. 1630.]
[Thursday, May 11, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Posb as a Newspaper.


good books are profitable investments,
returning many times
THEIR INITIAL COST.
5000 TECHNICAL BOOKS.
Send for our List of Technical Books, specially prepared for Home Study. We have large stocks of Books
on all Technical Subjects, and can supply the Elementary Handbook for the Amateur or the Text Rook
for the Professional.
JUST PUBLISHED: A NEW LIST OF BOOKS ON ADVERTISING, SALESMANSHIP, ACCOUNTANCY
AND MODERN BUSINESS HETHODS. • 1
A List, of the Best Books: on Any Subject Sent per Return Mail.
R OBERTSON*S, 238 PITT STREET (OPPOSITE SYDNEY SCHOOL OF ARTS).
THROAT!! LUNGS
Hudsons “Eumenthol Jujubes.’
AN IDEAL REMEDY
aSOTcnw
'V. ‘‘ou'„:_,CsSr&.V ■’.;
Wm(‘ -
PVCHSWn GtRHIODE
«OIC»L 6MITTC SMS>
_ -V’xv should
C.HUDSON.
feaia®
f&sza
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lakcet says: “Proved to be effective baetericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6 in Stamps.
‘
COMPANY. LTD., « York street, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
IN A GARDEN.
What more tender
Than the cosmos’ shadow on Helen’s face?
What more slender
More heavenly than Helen’s English grace?
Cosmos, Helen:
What sadder thought that in so small a
space
Death shall dwell in
So fair a flower, so beautiful a face?
Q.
HAMILTON WOOD.
IMPRESSION DE NUIT.
We watched Night loose her dusky hair
About the wearied limbs of Day.
The green hills glimmered into gray ;
Long dotted lights marked street and square.
One fallen yellow rose, the moon
On the dark water, faintly stirred,
Lay prone. A steamer passed ; we heard,
Thin and far-off, a foolish song,
And saw her black and ghostly spars ;
Like some old galleon, out of mind
Long since. . .What whispered in the wind
Beneath the still, unsleeping stars?
N.s.w.
FRITZ S. BURNELL.
Opal- Hearted Verses
Less than half a century ago Australia
was commonly written of as a grey, gaunt,
haggard, funereal, melancholy or otherwise
forbidding land. Australian writers of the
present generation are describing her differ-
ently. The desert still remains “a misty
mid-region,” though not a “dead heart” as
alleged. It is neither “dead” nor a “heart” ;
but rather a feature like the human appen-
dix, whose purpose has not yet been discov-
ered. The settled territory now appears
more correctly as a warm brown land, whose
droughty spasms cannot dim the radiant
green and gold of her borders. Instead of
being monotonous and sombre, so rich in
color is Australia that she justifies the phrase
of “an opal-hearted country” given in Doro-
thea Mackellar’s verses printed nere a fort-
night ago.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.
Miss Mackellar’s book has since been pub-
lished under the title of The Closed Door and
other Verses (Australian Authors’ Agency,
Melb., Is.). The title is not a happy one, for
the contents are decidedly of the open door
and the open air. The author has used her
own eyes, and has seen much to admire and
love in her country. Her pages glow with
the eolor of life, because she had steeped
her soul in it, as explained in these
stanzas:—
The lovely things that I have watched un-
thinking,
Unknowing, day by day,
lhat their soft dyes had steeped my soul in
color
That will not pass away—
Great saffron sunset clouds and larkspur
mountains,
And fenceless miles of plain,
golden-green in that unearthly
Hear shining after rain;
And nights of blue and pearl; and long
smooth beaches
tru i w . as sunburnt wheat,
Edged with a line of foam that creams and
■ _ hisses,
Enticing weary feet.
* # * *
There is no night so black but you shine
through it,
nn , ls no morn so drear,
u Golor of the World, hut I can find you
Most tender, pure and clear.
From the muddy greys of Lake Eyre to the
hectic green of a Sydney park at night, all
the colors of Australia seem to have been
captured in these verses. They abound in
I‘ttle pictures such as this from “The Dream
feoul”:—
In forests I have waited, still, expectant and
unseen,
While sunbeams pierced the darkness with
their swords of living green.
And this, after the fight with the galleon
“Santa Maria”:—
When she sunk there in our sight
With a little lapping sound
Slight as if a skiff had drowned,
Staggering we turned to go
For our ship had felt the fight—
Out to sunset showed our wake
Writhing like a wounded snake
Till we came to Samballo.
Flying foxes are seen “hanging from the
kurrajongs like monstrous magic grapes” in
“The Settlers”—a fine vision of Pan and his
crew in the Bush. She has the tempera-
ment which finds beauty in common things
and romance in a bit of sea visible from her
window.
For that strip of sapphire sea,
Set against the sky —>
Far horizons mean to me —
And the ships go by,
Framed between the empty sky
And the yellow sands,
While my freed thoughts follow them
Out to other lands.
And Miss Mackellar has the faculty of im-
parting her emotions to the reader. She
does not seem to owe much to other writers,
though in “Magic” there is a suggestion of
Kipling. The quality of this book, its fresh-
ness and sincerity, put the author in the
front rank of those who are now writing
verse in Australia.
Conan Doyle’s Verses
Conan Doyle’s Songs of the Road (Angus
and Robertson, 55.) is a book of journeyman
work of the same character and quality as
his Songs of Action. The well-known reci-
tation, “The Groom’s Story,” is provided
with a sequel, and an old wheeze turns up
again in the rain-soaked canvas hailed as a
masterpiece of Post-impressionism. The
story of Bendigo, the prize-fighter who got
religion, has some good points :
Bendy lie turned Methodist—he said he felt
a call.
He stumped the country preachin’, and you
. bet he filled the hall,
If you seed him in the pulpit a-bleatin’like
a lamb,
You’d never know bold Bendigo, the pride
of Nottingham.
But the Devil he was waitin’, and in the
final bout,
He hit him hard below his guard and knock-
ed poor Bendy out.
It happened - through some rival pugs who
jeered at Bendy in chapel, insinuating that
he had left the ring because the ring was
leaving him
Bendy fairly sweated as he stood above and
prayed :
“Look down, O Lord, and grip me with a
strangle hold!” he said.
“Fix me with a strangle hold ! Put a stop on
me! . .
I’m slippin’, Lord, I’m slippin’, and I’m
dingin’ hard to Thee.”
Bendy “slipped” and went for those pugs in
a way that did more for the mission than
any preaching could have done.
In “Religio-Medici” Dqvle expresses the
belief that all is good if understood: —
He lets the youthful dreamer store
Great projects in his brain, " -
Until he drops the fungus spore
That smears them out' again.
He stores the milk that feeds the babe,
He dulls the tortured nerve ;
He gives a hundred joys of sense
Where few or none, might serve.
And still He trains the branch of good
Where the high blossoms be,
And wieldeth still the shears of ill
To prune and prune His tree.
John Oliver Hobbes
The Life of John Oliver Hohies, told by
her father and her own letters (Dymock’s),
confirms the impression made by her books.
She was a bundle of nerves, strung tightly
by domestic unhappiness, and responding
sharply to the emotions. It was fitting that
she should adopt a man’s name for her liter-
ary work, for it shows a virile grasp of life
and an absence of sentimentality.
“I chose the name of John because it is
my father’s and my son’s, Oliver because of
the warring Cromwell, and Hobbes because
it is homely.”
Pearl Mary-Teresa Richards was born near
Boston, Mass., in 1867, and went to England
in the following year. When 19 she married
a Mi;. Craigie; four years later she had di-
vorced him, and entered the Catholic Church.
She gave as a reason for her conversion the
reading of Rabelais and Newman.
Some matters of literary interest appear
in her letters.... On a lecture tour in Amer-
ica she coined the word “blimming,” to repre-
sent the pleasant talk which says nothing.
She wrote to George Moore, praising
highly his Esther Waters, and to Gosse, in
admiration of his adroit memoir of Coventry
Patmore.
“Patmore (to me) belonged to the type
known as ‘Trials.’ I feel for the three
wives... .Rabelais does not shock me ; Field-
ing does not shock me; but the ‘mystics’ and
plays like Quex and Suzanne and ‘Angels in
Houses’ are not for me. To be frank, Pat-
more makes me i 11.”.. .The March Hare per-
suading himselLfchat he is a butterfly is an
unbeautiful study.”
Gosse was one of the few critics who did not
enrage her. She wrote to Moberley Bell
complaining of The Times notice of her play,
“The Flute of Pan,” although it credited her
with humor and unmistakable nobility.
Bell replied:—
There is one thing and only one thing
that the Omnipotent has absolutely failed to
create. He has made good women, bad wo-
men, clever women, silly women, selfish wo-
men, and heroines of self-sacrifice, but He
has never yet made a woman who could
stand —I will not say adverse criticism but —
one note of deviation from absolute and un-
qualified praise of any of her literary efforts.
... .If we had said that “The Flute of Pan”
was equal in parts to Othello, you would still
have resented the “in parts.”
“The Flute of Pan” is a satire on women
who are doing men’s work. She was “dead
against women’s suffrage,” and in several of
her letters she attacked the position which
Olive Schreiner has taken in her new book —
Woman and Labor.
Perhaps John Oliver Hobbes will be re-
membered longest for her novels — The School
for Saints and Robert Orange. Orange, who
appears in both books, is an idealised por-
trait of Disraeli. .
♦
“R. 8.” : Extract from “Lettres Anglaises”
in Her cure de France, 16/3/T1: —
“Whence comes the success of some Eng-
lish novels which are reputedly ‘wicked,’ and
what kind of public assures this success?
If French readers were offered such novels
they would not consider them in the least;
not that they would find them insufficiently
spiced and touchy—this is an aspect which
does not frighten us any more in France—
but they would probably judge them to be a
compound of puerile perversity and un-
healthy erotism, a character which the
bolder onslaughts of realism never had. It
is puzzling, for example, to find how one
can see the least merit and take the most
transitory interest in such books as His
Hour , by Elinor Glyn. The novels of Vic-
toria Cross are perhaps not so absurd; one
recognises at least an effort to be sincere,
which is too often suffocated under a heap
of rather badly evolved philosophical Con-
siderations. In Self and the Other, the
latest work of this author, the mostly insig-
nificant incidents and the—in spite of all —
banal situation are wrapped up in a senti-
mental and high-flown rhetoric. These two
novels make curious reading, and leave
doubts about the mentality of those who
admire them.
• * * * *
Edison suggests the possibility of
printing on leaves of nickel which
will outlast the bricks of Babylon.
How many of the annual million or
so new books deserve preservation? Many
of them ax‘e made for the day, and are thrown
away with the orange peel and the empty
jam-tins ; yet a multitude remain to cumber
the earth. If a Caliph Omar were to arise
in each century, and burn off the accumula-
tions of the bookshops (leaving a library
here and there), there might be a series of
new Shakespeares, instead of one nearly
buried under 99 thousand volumes of com-
ment. Anyhow, “Snooks” of Outback makes
a proposal worth considering:—
Wanted, a Minister for Books. All un-
dated, or non-descriptive titled books to be
heavily taxed. All “out-of-dates” to be
stamped “um-eliable.” Every superseded
.work to be withdrawn from sale and pulped
by the State Pulper, and all mediocre and
played-out writers to be “waratahed.” All
books (excepting instructive works) to be
issued with paper covers only, so that they
will eventually wear out, or demand reprint-
ing. _ Government catalogues to be issued
periodically, such catalogues to give sum-
mary of contents. Bookbinders can work
for private bookowners who want favorites
embalmed in. fancy covers. This will boom
the artistic craftsman and kill the other sort.
The success of Frank Harris’s The Man
Shakespeare seems to have given him a
second wind. In addition to his continuation
of the Shakespeare argument in connection
with the women of the dramas, he has writ-
ten a play— Shakespeare and his Love (F.
Palmer) —and has carried on a fierce news-
paper controversy with Bernard Shaw, whom
lie charged with stealing his thunder for an
amusing skit —± ne Dark Lady of the Son-
nets (printed in The English Review for
January). The Shavian dialogue has no-
thing to do with the Shakespeare wrangle;
but, like most of Shaw’s “dramas,” was writ-
ten with a practical purpose, which is the
establishment of a National Theatre in Lon-
don. Shaw’s lette.r in The Nation effectu-
ally punctimed Harris’s temporary inflation.
Harris has also been writing down the
talks he has had with such men as Cai-lyle,
Froude, Dilke and Russell Wallace. They
are good reading, and will no doubt get into
book form.
* ' # * *
H. G. Wells, interviewed by The Bodleian
about The New Machiavelli, denied that his
chai-acters were portraits -of any politicians
or other notabilities; each is a blend of fea-
tures drawn from a number of persons. Nor
is the author to be identified with the Rem-
ington of his story, who went over to Con-
servatism.
I am still as much of a Socialist—as I
understand the term —as ever I was. I still
hold the views which I expressed two or
three "years ago in New Worlds for Old.
lhey aren’t, perhaps, orthodox Socialist
views. I was trying in that book to impose
certain broader interpretations upon the
queer pedantries of the Fabian Society, but,
barring a few verbal and statistical modifica-
tions, I stand by that book now. Just as I
would still endorse my ten-year-old Antici-
pations.”
The March number of T.P.’s Monthly has
an article on the Fabian Society, interesting
on account of the portraits of members.
* * * *
“Grad” : To have sat at the feet of Profes-
sor MacCallum is to have become an en-
thusiast. Searching critic and laborious
student as he is, his judgment of literary
values is well-nigh impeccable. He at-
tacks his subject with the steady patience
and certainty of a mouse at an enormous
cheese, and lie penetrates to the heart of it.
But his students soon become aware that he
is not merely delivering addresses on Shakes-
peare or the Scottish Chaucerians, but is
letting them into some of the secrets of a
heart fired by noble ideals, and inspiring
them to love the highest when they see it.
Of all the words that I have heard him utter
from the platform, which do I recall most
readily? Well, I forget altogether the sub-
ject of the lecture, but he broke off to give
an apt illustration, left his notes, and re-
minded us of something which had just been
reported in the daily press—the death in a
sewer of a man who , perished in saving his
mate. “When I read that, gentlemen,” said
the Professor, with emotion. “I envied the
man his opportunity.” The applause was
spontaneous, lie meant it, and we loved
him.' That was 20 years ago.
* # - # *
Age is not mellowing Thomas Hardy, nor
is the use of verse abating the grimness of
his irony. The April Fortnightly Review
prints his “Satires of Circumstance” in 12
scenes, of which this is one:—
IN TIIE CEMETERY.
“You see those mothers squabbling there?”
Remarks the man of the cemetery.
“One says in tears, * 'Tis mine lies here!'
Another, ‘ Nay mine, you Pharisee!’
But all thqir children were laid therein,
At different hours like sprats in a tin.
And then the main drain had to cross,
And we moved the lot some nights ago
And packed them away in the general foss
With hundreds more. But their, folks don’t
kno.w.
And as well cry over a new-laid drain
As anything else, to ease your pain!”
After 20 years F. C. S. Schiller has re-
vised Riddles of the Sphinx. He finds now
what his readers long felt, that, after all,
philosophy is. an agreeable spiritual pur-
suit, and not a manner of life, as he once
thought, “in the simple-minded old Greek
way.”
“Practically ... a system Of metaphysics,
with whatever pretensions to pure thought
and absolute rationality it may start, is
always in the end one man’s personal view
of the universe, and the metaphysical crav-
ing, often so strong in the. young, is nothing
but the desire to tell the universe what one
thinks of it. . . . but the idea that it is to
hold true literally for all and for all time,
.is ludicrous.” -
In spite of his many changes, the clear,
buoyant quality of the original work is pre-
served, together with its essential doctrines.
In Prof. Schiller’s later wanderings through
controversial by-ways, his writing lost
some of its clarity and persuasiveness; but
in traversing again the broad ways of
audacious theory (his first passage < over
which he still secretly admires), he has re-
captured his earlier manner. The ordinary
reader,, whose interest in philosophy he was
the first to consider,"is the better for it.
The revision brings the book in line with
his present position, as far as could be
managed without an entire re-casting; in
places he merely tones down the language,
but he can add a note on atoms as ball-
rooms for electrons, and we still read of the
orderly and considerate habits of Spencer’s
“Unknowable.”
Here and there one misses a phrase or
an illustration, that was a memory aid to
an argument or a line of reasoning, but
this “Philosophical Pilgrim’s Progress,”
made in his adventurous supple youth (be-
fore “the hypertrophy of the critical ten-
dency had produced a degeneration of the
constructive powers,” he words it some-
where), is still the ihost delightful, and with
the possible exception of Shodworth Hodg-
son’s “Time and Space,” the best introduc-
tion to the lofty sport of metaphysics.
(Sonnenschen, 1910; 10s. net). \
* * * #
The smart young business man who wants
to get a hustle on, or the slow old business
man who finds himself in a backwash, and
wants to get out, will receive the needful
stimulus from The Poicer of Advertising
(Geo. Robertson and Co.), by A. O. Richard-
son, who has gained most of his experience
in Australia. The book is better suited to
local traders’ requirements than most of the
imported works on advertising.


*
w atre
n
f' V
f
1|: :
25$
5278
'£
PI .
r/j
mSm
i
r .jf
Y Si
:r;
\ !•*• ' i
«« « ; .
\ 1
1, I ‘
800
HIRT
203
102$ Famous LowPriCo.
866
Anthony Horderns’ Green Room
THE ever-increasing popularity of the celebrated Green
Room at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM is an
encouraging factor in our desire to maintain the ideal of TOP
QUALITY at BOTTOM PRICES for Fashionable Goods,
as well as Family Drapery, for which we are renowned
throughout Australia. The prevailing modes are faithfully
presented in our WINTER FASHION PORTFOLIO.
Write for a copy, posted free on request, and reap the full
benefit of ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW
PRICES.
The immense resources of our READY-TO-WEAR
COSTUME DEPARTMENT enable us to me.et the
requirements of every patron, and to offer the choice of a
perfectly-fitting Costume that possesses all the charm of a
made-to-order Gown at a price that effects a considerable
saving in the expenditure necessitated in conforming to the
demands of Fashion.
Description of Illustrations.
No. 202 —Silk Embroidered Cream Flannel Blouse, fasten at
back ... ... ... ... ... ... ■• • • ; •
No. 259—Cream Embroidered Voile Blouse, fasten at back, long
sleeves ..... ... ... ... .... ,
No. 5278 —Cream and Colored Striped Delaine Shirt Blouse,
fasten at front, yoke back ...
No. 1029 —Black Merveilleux Silk Blouse, trimmed Silk Net and
Applique, fasten at back
Nq. 800—Assorted Color Striped Flannel Shirt Blouse, fasten
at front, detachable Collar ... ... ... ...
Similar Designs ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• 9/11
No. 203 —Cream Golf Jersey, fasten up to the neck
No. 866—Smart Flannelette Shirt Blouse, in Heliotrope, Brown,
Navy, Moss
No. 635 —Coat and Skirt Costume, of Melton Face Cloth, Panel
back and front, trimmed Braid on hips, Sailor Collar of Black
Velvet, finished flat Silk Braids, lined Striped Sateen, well cut
Skirt, trimmed Braid to match ; Colors : Saxe, Navy, Brown,
Prunelle ... ... ... ... ••• .
No. 1228 —Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, of plain Habit
Cloth, Coat has Panel back and is smartly trimmed Black Satin
Collar, relieved Braid Motifs, also on cuffs and hips, well cut
Skirt; Colors: Brown, Navy, Grey, Black
Similar style (No. 137), Satin Collar, without Braid, made of
durable Twill Melton, in Navy only
No. 972 Venetian Face Cloth Coat and Skirt Costume, smartly
tailored, Belt effect back and side, new shape revers of plain
Black Satin, lined Cream Silk Polonaise, well cut Skirt; Colors :
Wine, Sage Green, Amethyst, Peacock Blue ...
No. 9341—Blouse, of Cream, All Wool Delaine, prettily trimmed
Silk Embroidery, fastens at back ...
12/6
9/9
7/6
24/6
8/6
11/6
10/6
4/6
37/6
32/6
29/6
67/6
• r:
9/6
'm
,
'Off
c
ZZQ
hqnX
m
HoRK
c Xa/rtous
C&OIT
u rices
9341
97a
635
ANTHONY HORDERN &
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Rricßfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
PUBLIC CAUTION
When asking for PHOSFERINE see that the article
you get is the genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name
which may be offered from interested motives. The
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON
sg
The Royal Example
dsf
Phosferine is used by the Royal Families of Europe,
which, ia plain language, means that every user of
Phosferine knows and feels that this famous Tonic is
recommended hy the greatest living Physicians.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal Residence in which PHOSFERINE
is not used and favourably spoken of.
PHOSFERINE
THE GREATEST OF ALL TONICS
No other medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring shattered constitutions
and in giving back to the prematurely aged new life and
energy. It is a proven remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous
Debility, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion,
Loss of Appetite, Lassitude, Faintness, Brain*Fag,
Headache, and ail disorders consequent upon a reduced
state of the nervous system.
gdf
PpmPJTlKaj* Imitations of Phosferine
v * are similar only in
name. Insist upon having the genuine
Phosferine the kind that is supplied
by Royal Command
g
To the British Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Spain
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.M. the Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
The Imperial Family of China.
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the world.
IThe Genuine Phosferine is sold by all Chemists Stores, etc., in bottles, f/- and 2/B.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Rail
Bearing* Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in allot the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue..
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON
dsfg
CHICAGO
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established lB49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
3 a
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Ag-ricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand iK' AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition alio wine Borrowers the privilege of repay in"
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretaiy.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Directo
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.— Local Director: A. MESTON.
For your BO'QTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Blacki,
“LUTETIAN”
CkEAM.
; . ../; 'I
For all kinds of Brown
Leather Boots and Shoes.
Has a world - wide reputation.
Made in light and dark colours.
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Made bv the Manufacturers of the Celebrated U
MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON
(Blacking; and Boot Polish)
' " Manufacturers,
LTD., LONDON and PARIS.
Will Anprape » BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT-!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Kblly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/.. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
116 other Recitations, 1/-.
Better Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiie Bulletin. ,
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
(?1
2
\L
Marvellously Simple !
Simtly Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 - I
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which, require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
The WONDERFUL VIRTUES
The following letter was written from “ Glenevonf Sodwalls, JV.S. Wales,
jth March, ipn, and it shows what a wonderful remedy this is for restoring
the sick man or woman to health and strength. Read this letter :
Clements Tonic Ltd.
“I wish you to know what benefit I have received from your Tonic and Fletcher’s
Pills, which you sell with your Tonic. I have suffered from chronic indigestion for
many years, and about 10 months ago, through an illness and trouble, my health com-
OF CLEMENTS TONIC
pletely gave way. My digestion, as well as all other functions of my body, became so
weak thatT could not take even the lightest of food without suffering very much pain. I
became Quite a wreck. X suffered pain from all parts of my body and limbs, which
ached to such an extent that I could scarcely walk about. There was not one part
of me which was not in pain, my heart especially felt very bad, with constant pain
and heaviness there. Also, a feeling of weakness, which made me feel it \vas Quite
impossible for me to live for long. There was also a dreadful cold sensation shoot-
ing from the heart. My nerves, too, were weak, that the slightest noise upset me
completely, and increased the awful pain and weakness at my heart. I had given up
hopes of ever getting better, ns X had been attended to by three doctors, and also two
SAVED this WOMAN’S LIFE
chemists, and had taken different patent medicines, but without any improvement. I
then decided to try Clements Tonic, and I cannot find words to express my feelings
of pleasure in doing so. Before the first bottle was completed, I found I was nnpiov
inir in every wav. I have taken three bottles only. I can now take any kind of food,
and can sleep well, and all pain has left my body and limbs. My heart too, is feeling
quite well again. I have taken a great amount of medicine during my life but nbver
anv have I derived so much benefit from as Clements Tonic and Dr. Fletcher s Pills.
You may use this testimony as you wish, as I have witnesses to prove it is true.
Yours faithfully, (Signed) EMMA JENKINS.”
Clements Tonic is unequalled for the relief of Anaemia, Loss of Sleep,
Appetite, or Confidence. It benefits Nervousness, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness. All Stores and Chemists sell it.


What
About
That
Dandruff?
sea
~•• ** j£*
ajsb
There is just this much about it:
Dandruff is a germ disease, is
most untidy, annoying, and leads
to baldness. When chronic, it
is very stubborn, but surely
yields to thorough and energetic
treatment. All germs must be
destroyed, the scalp must be
restored to health. Here is the
remedy: Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ask your doctor about using it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer L Co., Lowell, Masa., U. S. A.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
sf
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Hifthest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 t» £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Wri'e at once, using sufficient postage*
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
McA r> CYCLE COMPANY.
M EAD Dept. LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent, 167 Clarence St.. Sydney.
For RHEUMATISM
g
and all BLOOD DISORDERS.
n
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
UNIVERSAL
The name'Eley*
on any cartridge is
recognised by all
spor.smen the world
over as a hall-mark of
excellence and reliability
The ‘ Universal ’ 12-Bore Cartridge
is one of the most popular of all
‘Eley Smokeless’— the popular low-
price cartridge
‘Eley 22 Rim Cartridge’— accurate
and clean
Obtainable thiuugh your Cunmaker or Deals’.
Si-e the
name
•Kiev’
on all
i >ar-
iridges
8?
U 3
Etey
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
J
it.
>■ r f
For Children’s Coughs and Colds
There is no better remedy for Children’s “
Coughs and Colds than
BONMNCTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
It does them as much good
as it does the older folk.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
Ask for Bonningtons’s, and insist on getting it. It is dangerous to experiment
when you can get a remedy that has stood the test for over 45 years.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. Gd. and 2s. Gd.
[2
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK ” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
•V
,/}
When you look into the mirror, and your
! hollow cheeks, thin neck and scrawny arms
mock even you, what effect do you suppose they
have on those with whom you mix socially ?
A woman’s chief charm is a well-rounded
figure and full bosom. With these, thin
arms and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
If your bust lacks development, and you
are scraggly and ■ attenuated, we will advise
you free, and gladly, as to how you may im-
! prove your figure and beautify your bust.
WOMEN’S LACK OF
BUST
DEVELOPMENT !
We are only too pleased to tell you the
secret, for we know it cannot fail, and that
in a few weeks you will be happier, healthier,
and more sought after, than in your present
emaciated condition.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages
of ill-health have sought and accepted this
advice, and to-day are models of womanly
development and examples of perfect health.
The same success awaits your call. In the
wake of attenuation follow such complaints as
constipation, indigestion, bilious headaches,
internal functional derangements, etc. As
your development advances and weight im-
proves, these gradually disappear, and'perfect
health results.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us tell you the
secret free, and also send you a FREE
SAMPLE of Treatment. Write to-day.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
5 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY,
Cor. Castlereagh and Market Streets. [lBO3
satygft
A
PERFECT
FOOD
IN
TYPHOID & DYSENTERY
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is especially valuable as a diet in
Fever cases. Easily assimilated in
the weakest conditions. Whole-
some, nourishing and sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
CB2, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Milk Co.,
“ Slough, Bucks.
England.
sdfg
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to tempt death by Heart Disease,
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET— “The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. O,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney, [i
£1573|18|9
at a penny a smile, the casn value
ot. y .°. u . The Wayback Series.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ol
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease lrom the first day’s use. No
ste 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
1 eather chafing understraps. 'I he pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Tull Particulars r oatert Free
WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
sd
Watermans
(Ideal)
FountamPen
The Pen that
works at its best
—ALWAYS.
The secret of the great success of
Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pen
is—its reliability. One can always
depend on it. And what is the
good of a pen which cannot be
relied on—which is all right one
day, all wrong the next ? Water-
man’s Ideal never varies. It gives
perfect pen service the clay bought,
and it will give perfect pen service
ten years hence. Buy one. You
will quickly learn to regard it as a
faithful friend.
12/6 and upwards. From Stationer*,
Jewellers, fitc., throughout the World.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
My Lady.
For the maker pursueth after Art as though she
were his ladye fayre.
A chill, plain circlet of eternal gold
Is ever on her clear, white forehead set.
Behind it ripples all her lustrous hair,
And on her snowy garment’s shining fold
Gleams one red jewel. Her white bosom bare
Is dewy warm with her sweet womanhood.
Her eyes are wide as one who long hath stood
Full of large dreams her soul may not forget.
A thousand lovers hath she, but to none
Was given save to touch her finger tips
For some brief moment in a maze of years
Spent with long toiling; or, perchance, to one
To hear her voice a-murniur in his ears,
To feel her white robes flutteringly pass,
To kiss her sandal-prints in thymey grass,
And perish of desire for her warm lips.
Yet surely know that she is to be won ;
Somewhere between the gates of birth and death
Is given to one to kiss her on the mouth.
Lo, once in the wide setting of the sun,
When vast cloud shadows filled the wintry south,
And all the west was one carnelian flame
Set round with agate wavings—ah, she came
So near, so near, I felt her fragrant breath.
And once in a lone cottage of the plain—•
A humble place, rough-hewn with logs and bark,
And far from mansions of the world’s .desire—
I saw her through the shadowy window-pane,
One of the circle by the red-tong'ued fire,
Nursing a bushman’s babe upon her knee.
But unseen hands withheld the door from me,
I burned without in all that bitter dark.
And once within the crowded city street
I caught the flash of her red jewel-star,
And strove to follow. But the heedless throng,
Crowding and pressing round my eager feet,
Wrought me despair. And, 10, a strange, sweet
song
Fell like cool droppings from a hidden spring,
Silver on silver note. I heard her sing,
But knew not if the voice were near or far.
And once, ah, once, I walked a land of dream
Amid tall heroes that large nectar quaffed
From shining flagons, broidered with the past
In hammered silver. By a hoar, grey stream,
Shadowed with world-old cedars, Time had cast
His fatal hour-glass sideways as he slept.
And, 10, beside me through the gloom there step!
My lady, and she looked at me and laughed.
But somewhere in the shining evening west,
Or ’mid the green leaf curtains of the south,
Panting and breathless I shall claim her mine,
See the red jewel-star upon her vest,
And feel her lingering arms about me twine—
Ay, though a death be in the cup I prize,
Yet will I drink my draught from those deep eyes,
Press her white breast, and kiss her on the mouth.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Luck!
The ribbon on Aurora’s camisole
Gleams through an open-work of snowy lace
And frilling of white cloud, and morning’s bowl
Reflects the dimples of her winsome face.
She parts the velvet curtains of brown night,
Puts out the whiteness of the last pale star,
And stoops to draw from out the wells of light
Good luck, to splash across day’s eastern bar.
This is my lucky day, I know and feel
The promise that, like music, round me drips,
Sweet-eyed Fortuna leaves her spinning-wheel
To kiss me like a lover on the lips.
Yes, it is good to live, the world is gay,
I breathe the spirit fragrance of the rose;
Through golden mists he comes —he comes to pay
The shining twelve-and-sixpence that he owes.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
The Surf-Call.
A gloriops morn for a bathe!
The two-mile swath of a gleaming scythe
Lies white for the wind to swathe.
The tide is a true spring tide;
The cool, wet sand is as crisp and blithe
And fresh as a week-old bride.
And warm is the sun, and sane
As flesh allied unto souls that rest
And tread not the paths of pain.
’Mid sparkle of gold and blue,
A white gull follows a curdling crest
And screams in its glee to you.
White surf sings a boisterous song
And chuckling, eddying water creeps
The lips of the bay along.
Oh, who could a niggard be,
When warm blood, drunk with the surf-call,
leaps
To greet and embrace the sea?
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
Faith.
Sweetheart, why trouble to disturb
The bones of controversies dead,
Or present joyous laughter curb
With fearful doubts of woes ahead?
For though Time’s shadows on us steal
Present delights are all we feel!
You look upon the road I came
To feed the jealous doubts of love,
And burn your heart with futile flame.
Ah! little can past follies prove:
My past untruth can little show,
When you, yourself, I did not know.
I am an infidel of things
That lure your faith—do not believe
That Fate our lives together brings,
Or we a destined lot achieve.
But if our lives together run,
What matters how ’twas all begun?
I doubt those sentiments that you
In all your romance ne’er forget,
That I was fashioned you to woo,
As truthless superstitions; yet
If you love me as I love you,
There’s truth enough to make them true.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Combination Couch and Bed.
’ CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
<•**.< « » \\ ■
v - <►'* v > t v.'v jj *
f. .*. ». x- a i> v ■>
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
yf furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. ‘With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
THE AGGORDEON for Country Residents.
fg
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze, reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Pirir-n P-i Postage to any Address
rilvC dW I • in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
m
mm
? <
y
t
K
n>
i
Alcock Billiard
Talkies excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “'Alcock 5 s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables —the Melbourne match between George Gray
and Fred Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coming
off the red, is another proof of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK S’ CO. Pty. Ltd.
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth. [5
LD
OBKWfy
tea
er sco
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWnisky
V
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE —T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltinn.
HOBART—John Ferguson & CoJ
LAUNGESTBN—Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR THE HOME
m
m
i ITT
li:%
m
I ■ ID!
iiv ::
■
II
Kill;
ffw
ae?
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff an 4 all Particulars posted
on application to . The Manager.
Columbia-Rena
Double-Disc Records.
MUSIC ON BOTH SIDES. A DIFFERENT SELECTION ON EACH SIDE.
Can be played on
any Disc Machine.
Will Outwear
Any Other
Disc Record.
PcJect in
Surface
and Tone.
Extra-
ordinary
in Dura
bility.
10-inch,
3 /-
12-inch
'at
lias
Mr. F. IV. WOOD ,
Bandmaster.
TV -
Two Records at the
Price of One.
Every Record
a Picked One.
Better than
others at
Higher
Prices.
Sold fay all
Dealers.
10=inch,
3/-
12=inch,
51-
THE REGIMENTAL BAND of H. M. SCOTS GUARDS Plays Exclusively for
COLUMBIA-RENA. The Finest Band Records Ever Made.
GOLUMBIA-RENA DOUBLE-DISC RECORDS.
Double Value, Double Wear, Double Everything except Price.
Write to your nearest Dealer for Complete Catalogue of 2000 Different Selections.
CRAVEN TAYLOR 8 CO.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1630.
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1911.
PIUCJI 6d.
AN EXPENSIVE FUNERAL.
Mr. Holman (Acting Premier of N.S.W.) has proposed to the other Premiers to make certain voluntary concessions to the Common-
wealth to deal with Trusts and High Protection. —News Item.
THE HORRIFIED FATMAN: “ONLY TO BE BURIED FOR TWO YEARS, AND ALREADY THERE’S ONE OF US
DIGGING HIM UP I AND THE FUNERAL COST ME £100,000!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I’er Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly . . .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. icill be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and, at British
Australasian , Office, 115 High Holborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, 441 Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Actents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 14in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1911.
WHY LABOR MUST GO FORWARD.
Though the Referenda result will check
the Labor movement, it cannot stop it. Year
by year, despite press hostility, reverses, lack
of cash, internal differences, and a thousand
other factors,- it forges ahead. One power-
ful reason is that it is hated by the right
people. There is a type of selfish Austra-
lian reactionary who, under one alias or an-
other, is always to be found ranged up
against the Democratic cause, and the hos-
tility of this class is a political asset. The
very rich Australian is amongst the worst of
the unworthy rich people in the world. A
Tory daily gave this fact away the other
morning in a manner that was none the
less damning because it was unconscious.
It said :
In Australia, when a township feels in need of
some local improvement, its leading citizens rise
up in a deputation and ask the Government for
money....ln England apparently it is more usual
to decide that all the men of wealth in the country
should be asked for contributions.
The “readiness of rich Australians to neglect
all but their legal obligations” may be dis-
covered by a trip through any section of
the Commonwealth. Coopers, Wilsons,
D’Arcys and scores of others draw their tens
of thousands yearly from this country, but
they rarely give a farthing back to it of
their own free will. England and America
are dotted with Leland Stafford Universi-
ties, Tate Galleries, Wallace Collections—
splendid recognitions by the affluent of their
duty to the State. Not one Australian mil-
lionaire out of 50 has donated so much as a
village pump to the land where he made his
pile. Even in New York, the Pierpont
Morgans have started admitting the citizens
to their homes on fixed dates, to view the art
treasures there; and in Britain this public-
spirited practice has existed for generations.
The Australian plutocrat who happens to
have a home in this country would see the
public shot before he allowed them to scrut-
inise the 30-guinea couches and the 30-shil-
ling oleographs which Lord Rosebery dis-
covered there.
* * * *
No class can consistently flout its obliga-
tions without paying the penalty. The
penalty which Australia’s rich class pays is
the dislike and distrust of a huge section
which, under different circumstances, would
be its warm upholders. A cable message
mentioned a while back that the British
Lords were willing to submit their fate to a
Referendum of the people. Melbourne Age,
writing on the subject, said amazedly:—
It is a very striking and significant fact that the
whole Peerage of Great Britain is willing to put
its political destinies into the keeping of the popu-
lar vote of England.
If the British landlord resembled the Austra-
lian landlord the affair would be astonishing.
In the circumstances an appeal to the masses
is the Lords’ best hope of salvation. The
arguments of cold reason may be all against
the Peers. They may be anachronisms;
their House may be a block to needed legis-
lation ; numbers of them may be wasters or
worse; but, as a body, they are liked and
respected, and they know it. At last gen-
eral election in the United Kingdom the
South and West of England, and the agri-
cultural parts of the Midlands, went solidly
for the Peers’ cause. The Liberal majority
was gained in Wales and Scotland —where
special issues were raised —and in the big
towns where alone the “landlord cry” cut
any ice. There is, on the other hand, not a
Legislative Council in Australia which would
not be summarily wiped out if the electors
were given the chance to do it at the ballot
box; and the voting would be as much on
personal grounds as on the grounds that
these institutions are useless and out of date.
The typical “upper class” Briton only leaves
his native land when he is too ill or too
poor to live there: his Australian prototype
only settles in Australia when he is too ill
or too poor to exist anywhere else. Aus-
tralian “Society” is the only body of its kind
in the world in which abuse of local products
and local conditions is accepted as a sort of
hall-mark of gentility. It is not strange
that the bulk of self-respecting natives
should grow impatient with their unpatriotic
rich, and incline to the view that there
must be merit in any cause to which these
folks are opposed.
* * * *
Labor scores, and must go on scoring, by
reason of the fact that, in the nature of
things, its tendency is to act while the other
party talks. The alias “Liberalism,” adopt-
ed by Anto-Laborites in Australia, deceives
no one. This country’s “Liberal” party is
plain Tory. The vast sums of money which
were squandered during the recent campaign
on full-page newspaper advertisements and
millions of billheads, on the salaries of an
army of “organisers,” and in other less worthy
directions, was not supplied by citizens an-
xious for legislative change of any sort whatever.
The “Liberals” who so lavishly financed the
Anti-Referenda campaign have reason to be
satisfied with things as they are. Their
ideal leader is one who is able to talk round
the subject of reform in such a fashion as
to suggest that reform is pushing at the front
door, and yet keep the menace permanently
anchored on the far side of the garden gate.
A highly-gifted politician in this line was
N.S.W.’s Joseph Carruthers. With stu-
pendous nerve he christened his party—the
party which was where it was with the ex-
press object of preventing anything being
done, or (to borrow a “Liberal” euphuism)
to “act as a check on experimental legisla-
tion” —the “Reform Party.” During upwards
of three years he neither reformed nor at-
tempted to reform anything. His successor
was less adroit, or more honest, or some-
thing. For a while Wade showed a dis-
tinct tendency to do something in the way of
reform. As a result, he alienated the re-
gard of his warmest supporters. His land
legislation—providentially, from his point
of view, flung out by the Legislative Coun-
cil—drove “Liberals” like J. Macarthur
Onslow, of Camden Park, to open mutiny.
Warned thereby, Wade became as others of
the Anti-Socialist, Reform, Liberal persua-
sion. Since then he has enjoyed the ut-
most popularity in Anti-Labor circles—and
has in consequence been enthusiastically put
out of office by the electors.
* * * *
Even the narrowest and most provincial
of Labor administrations can feel secure,
more or less, because there is work that must
be done, and no other party to do it. What
thinking citizen, for example, could expect a
Wade administration to do more than orate
about a North Shore bridge or tunnel?
Sydney Ferry shares are not held by the
helpless widows and orphans whom Wade
humorlessly claimed were going to be ruined
if the McGowen Government’s ferry scheme
materialised, but by the very bulwarks of
“Liberalism.” To displease these people—
and there is no surer way of doing it than
by touching their vested interests—is to
undermine the entire “Liberal” edifice by
removing a large portion of the cash-founda-
tion on which it rests. It is the same with
a thousand other reforms. Democrats are
pained at the Yankee asininities of King
O’Malley; Australians grieve over the
States Frights sentiments of W. A. Hol-
man ; and when Verran wowses they ex-
perience the tired feeling like other men.
But such calamities are not confined to the
Labor party. Take it for all in all, that
party stands for Australianism, as opposed
to that brand of flag-wagging Jingoism
which can see merit in every country but
its own; and it stands for deeds as opposed
to oratory, which is full of sound and promise
signifying nothing. So wherever a practi-
cal Australian patriot is found to-day his
tendency is to vote Labor, as being, with all
its faults and flaws, the one visible hope on
the horizon.
SOME ADVICE THAT IS WHOLLY
IMPRACTICABLE.
The N. S. Wales branch of the Peace So-
ciety has again arisen from its placid dreams
about the brotherhood of man, to urge upon
Australia the extremely simple method of
avoiding war by declining to have anything
to do with it. The society in its manifesto,
issued over the signatures of the gentle Miss
Rose Scott, president, and one Wm.
Cooper, vice-president, extends the glad in-
formation that there is no occasion to fear
the hostility or envy of Asia, nor is there
the least necessity for Australia “to throw
itself into the vortex of barbaric militarism
while the world is moving forward” —pre-
sumably to universal arbitration, or the mil-
lennium, or some other unreliable and in-
definite period. The building of the Com-
monwealth navy, the adoption of compulsory
military training, are declared to be merely
the result of fear of a bogey created by Aus-
tralians themselves, or, if there is anything
more substantial than bogey, its substance
is none the less of our own creation. Here-
abouts, the manifesto becomes somewhat
mixed, and sets out to discredit its earlier
view of the position by pointing out that,
“while Australian arrogance in seizing a con-
tinent lying within reach of Asia, and
warning off the inferior races might, at the
time, have seemed neither difficult nor dan-
gerous, owing to the weakness of the Asiatic
races, the lesson Japan taught Russia made
a great difference.” It did. So also with
the lesson taught to the murdered Korea;
and it is a peculiar inconsistency even in a
Peace Society to quote those two examples
of the incontestably war-like and treacherous
nature of the Japanese in the forefront of an
appeal to this country to trust blindly to
that people’s chivalrous and peaceable spirit.
* * * *
But the manifesto goes further. What, it
asks, is the good of fighting anyhow, since
Australia hasn’t a hope of winning; and it
proceeds to suggest that, in the event of in-
vasion, White Australia should give up the
ghost without a kick, leaving as its last
will and testament to history the sum total
of its philosophy—“ What’s the use?” Ob-
serve :
We have a vast continent, not half peopled, and
on its northern border, the nearest to Asia, practi-
cally uninhabited. Who has proclaimed that fact
more widely than ourselves, and, by coupling the
name of Japan therewith, pointedly drawn the at-
tention of that country? At the same time dubbing
her people “undesirable aliens,” and an “inferior
race,” we have ostentatiously warned them off;
action we could hot substantiate for a single day if
Japan chose to contest it, except with the help of
our Mother Country, which help she could give only
by turning her back upon cherished traditions and
ideals, and at the probable cost of her Asiatic Em-
pire. For be it remembered we are a people of but
5,000,000, while the Japanese number nine times as
many, with armies and navies which we cannot
hope to approach for many long years, and, as re-
gards that portion of our country where we profess
to see greatest danger, as near to her base as we,
with as good, if not better means of communication.
What hope could we have of beating Japan in such
a struggle?
In other words, what is the profit of hu-
manity’s applause to the bleeding patriot,
when, with discretion, he might be an un-
scratched serf? \Vhy should his cities,
which he has taken so much time and trou-
ble to build, be sacked and destroyed, when
the early hoisting of the white flag would
preserve them for a neighbor who has no de-
sire to do more than put Ins name above the
door? Why should he jeopardise his women
to an infuriated soldiery, when an amicable
arrangement or a dishonorable understand-
ing could be arrived at? we cannot help
ourselves Rose Scott and William
Cooper say so!
* * * *
Miss Scott and her Peace Society also
assure us that the Japs are not a people who
love war for its own sake, nor have they at
any l time gone out of their way to attack
their neighbors ; indeed, they are looking for-
ward to a renewal of their alliance with
Britain, and to the proposed arbitration
treaty between that country and the United
States of America. Just here Miss Scott
may be offered a chair, while somebody else
gets up and says a few words. Less than
a month ago Count Ernest Reventlow,
perhaps the most noted strategist and mili-
tary writer in Germany, offered his opinion
about the pacific Jap. In a carefully-pre-
pared essay he declared that even amongst
the most sceptical it was not denied that
Nippon was preparing for war with the
United States for the supremacy of the
Pacific. Says the expert:—
The seizure of the American islands in the Pacific
would be essentially a defensive act on Japan’s part,
notwithstanding its aggressive character. It is a
question of life with .Japan, and there is no doubt
whatever that her rulers are, fully aware of this
truth.
Reventlow gives it as his firm conviction —
he says there is no doubt —that Japan could
at the present time seize the Philippines,
Hawaii, United States possessions in Sa-
moa, and the island of Guam. Then “the
most powerful American fleet conceivable
would be helpless in such an immense area
of operation as the Pacific Ocean, without
advance bases, so that capture of these bases
by Japan would render that country undis-
puted mistress of the Pacific.” Either the
expert Reventlow is wrong, or the inex-
pert Sydney Peace Society has misjudged
the mind of its squat friends across the
pond.
* * * *
Anyhow, the Peace Society can be as-
sured, on the authority of the Japs them-
selves, that its advice to Australians to
trust their country and liberties to the
friendly feelings of an alien race has no sym-
pathy from them. No later than last year
the Kokumin Shimbun made it clear that
the Japanese had learned “that the most
indubitable rights are worth nothing unless
they are supported by a suitable force.” And
the Kokumin Shimbun knows quite a heap
more about the matter than the innocent-
souled Miss Rose Scott or even W. Cooper,
vice-president.
THE HONOR OF TOIL.
Despite the proud boast that Britain still
leads the world in making onion pickles and
iron bedsteads, it is an incontestable fact
that the British person has had from time
immemorial a rooted objection to doing
things. To the insular mind work has al-
ways been degrading, and idleness has been
the hall-mark of nobility. The internal evi-
dence of the language itself reveals this. A
very awful character who prowls about with
a blood-stained knife is known in bellow-
drama as a “villain” ; but “villain” at first
simply implied a town-dweller, a person who
supported himself by labor at some craft,
instead of riding abroad to cut throats and
collect plunder. Similarly, a low person
is a “churl,” and we throw all the contempt
we can into the term; yet “churl” in earlier
days was merely a laborer in the fields, a
useful toiler who made several blades of
wheat grow where formerly there had only
been a battlefield, or a rubbish tip for dump-
ing dismantled barons and other refuse.
Again, it is most objectionable to be called
a “cad” ; yet the original “cads” were merely
the followers of an enthusiastic Labor leader
named Jack Cade, who had a wild idea that
the time was ripe for setting up wages
boards while Plantagenet kings still held
their crowns by grace of a meat-axe, and
their personal dexterity in keeping their
seats on a bucking and slippery throne. The
uses of these words, and of a dozen others
which might be dragged into the argument,
go to show that the persons who shaped and
compiled that appalling conglomeration of
mental traps and etymological confusion
known as the English language had a su-
preme contempt for any man who demeaned
himself by doing any ordinary and useful
work. Nor must it be supposed that the
energy of the race found outlet in war and
blood-letting. The historical record reveals
the fact that there were only 4000 English-
men at Poitiers, 10,000 at Agincourt, and
26,000 at Waterloo. The remaining mil-
lions of the people simply stayed at home,
and, dodging work with what skill they
might, secured to themselves the largest pos-
sible measure of comfort for the smallest
amount of effort. In short, the English na-
tion for a thousand years proved its sterling
ability for leaning on a post, avoiding war.
and despising labor.
* * * *
The natural outcome of the national pen-
chant for doing as little as possible, was the
degradation of those who, weakly yielding to
the demands of hunger, actually consented
to do something. They sank to a condition
which would be mildly described as abject,
were kicked feelingly by their idle com-
patriots, starved to the last point of endur-
ance, and taught by their .spiritual over-
lords that it was their birthright to be trod-
den upon by those whom they fed with their
toil. About the middle of the eighteenth
century a Scotch craftsman in verse, one
James Thomson, who poured forth a
dreary mass of jingle to the lasting injury
of the “Seasons,” taught the nation to sing
that “Britons never, never, never shall be
slaves.” The ditty admirably suited the
mood of the people, and they have gone on
singing it with increased enthusiasm ever
since. Everyone who could do so dodged
anything that bore the least resemblance to
slavery, and in doing so developed marvel-
lous skill in coercing or inveigling others in-
to bearing the loads which he himself had a
distaste for carrying. People who forgot
how to work, in the joy of compelling others
to do it, were said to have “risen from the
ranks.” By the beginning, of the nineteenth
century the output of articles made under
British supervision had become enormous.
English parents had by that time learned
to sell their children to the factories; and
England held more negro slaves than any
other nation. The slaves worked under
the whip; so did the children. The only
difference was that the slaves got more to
eat. All the while the people continued to
sing “Rule Britannia !” Then came im-
provement in the factory conditions, and the
abolition of negro slavery, and it appeared
as if the dwellers in the fog-girt isle would
at last be compelled to thin out and do some
serious toil. The genius of the nation,, how-
ever, saved it from such a fate. The intro-
duction of the sacred principle of Freetrade,
and the further extension of a vast black-
and-tan Empire, preserved the ancient repute
of the land. This is the inner meaning of
that splendid Imperialism which spreads it-
self in magnificence of grovel on such occa-
sions as the coronation of a new king. It
indicates that the old tradition of not doing
things is being upheld in heroic fashion,
and that the nation’s bosom swells with
pride at the knowledge that a goodly part of
it is still dodging real work.
* * * *
The ancient British tradition has spread
to Australia. The thing shows itself at
every turn. The desire for black and yellow
serfs to do our bidding is perpetually assert-
ing itself. The refusal of white men to be
serfs makes it a miracle in the eyes
of many that the Commonwealth can rub
along at all. The wish of the majority
to do as little as possible is perpetually in
evidence. You may discover signs of it by-
observing those who lean against posts, or
by studying the figures of the late Referenda
polls. Only by constant vigilance cau the
principle of a White Australia be main-
tained : it is a principle which runs directly
counter to the ancient tradition. White
Australia implies the elevation of labor to
honor, the full recognition of the worker’s
service, and the determination to overcome
the hereditary tendency to fatigue. It im-
plies that the “villain” is more worthy than
the baron, the “churl” more noble than the
loafer, and the “cad” a person playing a
very important part in the new order of
things. The watchwords of a people who
side-stepped personal effort are of no pos-
sible use to a nation which disdains to prop
itself with black or yellow auxiliaries. Such
a nation must feel the honor of doing things,
and step forth confidently and aggressively
on the new national path it has chosen.
Ever since the original Adam started dig-
ging Asia with a clumsy wooden spade, it
has been recognised that someone has got
to work; but the aim and object of most
of Adam’s children has been to put the bur-
den on the shoulders of someone else, and sit
down and superintend. Britain has no 1 ’
been exceptional in its line of thought and
conduct. It has merely been one of the
best at the game, as it has hitherto been
played. Greek civilisation was built on
slavery; Roman, on slavery plus the plun-
der of many nations ; American, at first on
slavery, and afterwards on the exploitation
of cheap immigrant labor from overseas.
It remains for Australia to show that a true
civilisation can be built upon a foundation
of national industry.
* * * *
Whisker to whisker, and foot to foot, the
forces of the new and old ideas are now do-
ing battle on Australian soil. It is not a
fight that is going to end in one round or
in twenty. The new notion is handicapped
by a thousand considerations of sentiment;
and even those whose grip of the situation
is clearest have the ancient microbe in their
blood. Labor statesmen can still on occa-


sion grovel with the best, and a bout of fi a S:
flapping can still temporarily deprive good
Australians of their reason. But the bigger
view slowly forces itself upon the peop^ly.
Nations of superior loafers have had their
day ; the nation of superior workers is com-
ing along.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
New Protection or No Protection —Which?
The highly-protected manufacturer who
isn’t prepared to pass on any of the fruits
of the Protection to his work-people may
yet find that his position isn’t impregnable,
even though the Commonwealth has been hit
with a “No.” Canada has an Act which
says that six citizens may go to any Court
and charge that any Trust is squeezing too
much out of the consumer. If they put up
a good case the Department of Labor is
ordered to investigate, and the complainants,
the Trust and the Government each appoint
a member of an investigation committee.
The committee can call for papers and per-
sons, administer oaths, and lock up for per-
jury. If it finds the Trust guilty of en-
hancing prices it can SUSPEND ANY
TARIFF DUTIES WHICH PROTECT
THE TRUST’S PRODUCT. Further, the
committee can issue an order suspending or
abrogating a patent right, if it finds that a
Trust is using the thing to bleed the public;
and Canada is relying on this provision to
knock out the Machinery Trust. Without
the power which it vainly sought the other
day, the Australian Commonwealth certainly
cannot compel a Protected manufacturer to
share the fruits of the Protection with the
work-people. But, as the Canadian exper-
ience shows, it can still say—“ Very well.
We didn’t introduce Protection merely to
put money into a few manufacturers’ poc-
kets. If you won’t do the fair thing we
asked —if you block the thing for which we
really designed Protection—then the Pro-
tection must go. It’s either New Protection
or no Protection at all —now which is it to
be?” And when the Commonwealth Govern-
ment makes that quite plain, the vigor with
which various “No-Noers” will urge Holman
and the others to “voluntarily concede some-
thing to the Commonwealth” will be aston-
ishing.
*
Once More the Decayed Fish Merchant.
An A. J. Simpson, of N.S.W., is alleged
by New York Sun—one of the most reliable
dailies in the U.S. —to have spoken as fol-
lows to an interviewer at the Waldorf Hotel
last month :
I own 150,000 head of sheep, am worth about
£350,000, and employ 80 men.
A Labor Government has just come into power by
an overwhelming vote, with Mr. Fisher as Premier.
All progress has stopped, and, for myself, lam
looking about for another country to live in.
Both the general and the State elections took
place in January, and the, Labor party carried all
the States except Tasmania and Queensland.
McGowen, the new Premier of New South Wales, is
in favor of applying the progressive land-tax policy
to the smaller farmers as well as the big ones.
Outside of Australia the effect has been bad because
of the impression produced by our new legislation.
We cannot get any more money from the capitalists
of England.
Our Government in N.S.W. is worse than that of
M.L. Some months ago we had a big coal strike at
Newcastle, and gas and electric light works were
tied up, and the trams stopped running.
The allegations of Simpson, who lives at the
Waldorf when he is in New York, who is. on
his way to the Coronation, and who claims
to be a disgusted person in the act of aban- ,
doning the country where he has amassed
over a quarter of a million sterling, are in-
correct to the following extent: —
(1) Progress has not stopped in Australia, as a
result of the Labor party’s rise to power. Ten years
ago, with Labor nowhere in politics, the production
of Australia was worth £112,273,000; to-day, with
Labor on top, the figure is £174,509,000. Ten
years ago the bank deposits amounted to 90 millions
sterling; to-day they are 174 millions.
(2) Labor won in N.S.W. and S. Aus. alone at
the State elections. McGowen has never breathed a
word about applying the progressive land-tax to
small farmers.
(3) Australia’s foreign credit has not been dam-
aged by Labor legislation. On the contrary, it has
distinctly improved. Labor’s Defence policy evoked
a chorus of cheers from oversea investors.
Its immigration restriction legislation and
much of its social legislation have been copied
by Britain. The lamentable inaccuracy of the
charge that Australia “cannot get any more money
from the capitalists of England” is evidenced by
the fact that every State Premier has successfully
raided the foreign pawnshop in the last six months.
(4) The Newcastle coal strike occurred under an
anti-Labor regime, and was largely due to anti-
Labor’s maladroitness.- The strike didn’t stop the
trams or tie up the electric light, and the only gas
co. it affected was a little North Sydney concern,
which, having neglected to provide a reserve stock
of coal, had to switch off its supply for a few hours.
Now, what is Australia going to do about
its Simpsons? This latest slanderer is re-
ported in one of America’s most widely-read
papers—and he does not question the ac-
curacy of the report—to have denounced his
native land as a ruined, discredited spot,
where there is no progress, and nothing is
heard save the clattering boots of departing
Capital. The yarn happens to be a crude,
ill-fashioned lie, easily disnrovable by any
official reference book. But that makes
Simpson’s conduct none the less noisome ;
and th.ere is the consideration that the aver-
age newspaper reader doesn’t turn up Year
Books to verify statements made about a
foreign country by a native of that country.
One Australian of the Simpson breed does
the Commonwealth more harm —by discourag-
ing the immigration which it so vitally needs
—than a hundred of his fellow-countrymen
who live mostly in gaols. Yet there is no legal
means of getting at the Simpsons. They.carry
on their travels abroad a sort of free license
to libel the land which has provided them
with the means to travel. Obviously, it is
up to Australia to cancel that license by
holding the possibility of a heavy fine or a
snell in gaol over those who make a hobby
of traitorism. And until that fine or that
imprisonment is prescribed, it is up to every
true Australian to treat the national slan-
derer, no matter who he may be, as an out-
cast, unworthy of respect—an ungrateful
hound that bites the hand that feeds it.
Another Result of “Making the Railways
Pay.”
Last week Willie Watt, Acting-Premier
of Victoria, published the shameful informa-
tion that the Cabinet had decided to order
40 locomotives from “abroad,” because the
Newport Railway Shops, though working
night and day, are unable to meet the de-
mand for rolling stock. That is one ot the
many disastrous results of importing a tormgn
expert to “make the railways pay. Ex-
perts of the Tait brand never intend to make
this country their home. They come un-
der engagement for a few years, and look
forward to saving a few thousands and then
clearing. Any fool could make the railways
or any other big works “pay under those
circumstances. All he has to do is to starve
the system, postpone repairs, neglect re-
newals, and ignore all claims tor additional
plant, and then, given even a normal re-
venue, he can show a wonderful surplus.
When he sees that the time has come for
the whole business to break down, he comes
in out of the wet, and departs with his thou-
sands and a great reputation as a successful
manager. No sooner is he gone in triumph
than the trouble begins. All this or some-
thing very like it happened and is happening
in connection with Tait. He retrenched
wherever possible, he maintained no re-
serve supplies of material, rolling-stock or
men, he paid little heed to the convenience
and not very much to the safety of the public,
and he starved the equipment of the State
workshops to such an extent that they have
been working for months at breaking strain.
He “made the railways pay”—and now the
public has to balance the account. Those
40 locos will cost something like £130,000 —
which means that over £IOO,OOO will be spent
abroad in wages, instead of being spent in
the Commonwealth. Doubtless the Com-
missioners could not foresee the record har-
vests of this and last year, but the recur-
rence of “good” periods is as much a mat-
ter of certainty as that of droughts, and due
provision should have been made for expan-
sion. Not only has that not been done,
but the normal supply has not been main-
tained. The State coal mine at Wonthaggi
—now going on for two years old —has taken
much rolling-stock, but this has practically
been made up by starving the firewood, timber
and other trades. Even had the Commis-
sioners, in true farsightedness, increased
their capacities for building engines, trucks
and carriages beyond immediate require-
ments, they would still have been on firm
ground, for the Westralian Government is
simultaneously importing 20 locos, at a cost
of £66,800, and these could then have been
built at Newport. So £200,000 is stupidly
and thriftlessly sent abroad! That means,
roughly, the loss to Australia of 1000 arti-
sans and their families, for at least a year,
and probably for always, and the loss of
much valuable experience and training. It
is a heavy price for “making the railways
pay” in a country that is crying out for
population.
Exit “ Haw, Damme! ”
The first number of the new Commonwealth
Military Journal —which is to be issued
monthly, without charge, to all officers —
reports some straight talk given by Colonel
Legge to the United Services in Melbourne.
The Defence Act says that all officers and
non-coms, shall be promoted from the ranks,
and this is so horribly contrary to Euro-
pean practice as to have caused misgivings.
Colonel Legge, in his lecture, cited three
authorities as sufficient: —
(1) The military correspondent of London Times:
“Japan could have organised her corps of officers,
had she desired to do so, as a caste apart, ala
Prusse, at once the strength, the glory, and the
weakness of the German army. There were many
who advised her to do so, but she wisely refrained,
and left open the door to merit wherever found.”
(2) General De Negrier (French): “One super-
iority of the Japanese consisted in the fact that their
army was not linked to the past by those Old World
conventionalities which we dignify by the name of
traditions.”
(3) Legge himself: “The weakest point about
old-established armies is, in my mind, the traditional
social distinction of the officer. In all walks of life
it is brains that count, and why not in an army?
I have seen Australians, from all States, under the
trying circumstances of war, and it is an undoubted
fact that, even with those having little previous
training, good results were in direct proportion to
the ability of the officers in charge, irrespective of
their birth, their breeding, or their money value.”
The new Military College, to be opened in
the Federal Territory next month, has been
recruited entirely by examination. . Not
even riding, shooting, or other physical at-
tainment has been allowed to count, except
that, of course- an ordinary medical inspec-
tion had to be passed. Whether physical
merit should not count towards the making
of an officer, as much as towards that of a
Rhodes scholar, is, no doubt, an arguable
question. But physical merit is a matter
of opinion, and it was feared, apparently,
that if it were acknowledged, backstairs in-
fluence might get a look in that way. Un-
der the present conditions it gets no look in
at all. Given some unworthy administra-
tion in the future, the present excellent in-
tentions may be perverted; but, if that can
be avoided, the “officah” who traditionally
said “Haw! Damme!” is going to be as ex-
tinct in Australia as the curate who said
“Oh fancy!” lived on bath-buns, and left
his go-losh about in public places.
Wanted, Official Defenders.
At the conference of Trades and Labor
Councils, held at Christchurch (M.L.) last
week, a waterside workers’ remit: “That
the conference endorse Dr. Findlay’s pro-
posal to appoint public defenders in each
centre of population throughout the Do-
minion, and urge him to bring down legis-
lation in that direction as speedily as pos-
sible,” was agreed to. When are Australia’s
State Governments going to get busy in the
same direction? The average layman has
but a faint conception of the gigantic-organi-
sation an accused person has to face. The
even-handed fairness of his criminal admin-
istration is a tradition with the Briton. At
the revolutionary who suggests that British
justice is hardly ever even-handed, and is
frequently unfair, the Briton is apt to fling
the deadly reproaches “Socialist” and “Pro-
Boer.” Yet the Revolutionary is right, and
incidents are continually cropping up to
prove it. For example, last month, a man
named Stinie Morrison was tried in Lon-
don for murder. The English papers dis-
cussed the case in all its bearings, as is their
Yankee custom these days. Quite casually
London Evening Times remarked: —
Two men were engaged in the actual murder of
Leon Beron. Both were present when Beron was
killed. One man, says the prosecution, was carried
by a fast taxi-cab and deposited near Kennington
Church, and was there met by the second murderer.
How did the second murderer get there ?He did
not fly — he could not have taken a taxi-cab, because
the police have now complete knowledge of the move-
ments of every taxi-cab in that district on that par-
ticular night.
It might have been that Morrison’s only
chance of establishing his innocence lay in
getting that “complete knowledge of the
movements of every taxi-cab” which the
police had, as a matter of course. Without
considerable wealth he could not, however,
hope to do so. It is one instance of the
countless mighty “pulls” which the Crown
has over an indigent prisoner. But the
Crown is a sportsman in its way. It insists
on giving the penniless accused a run for his
life or liberty—even if it is only the sort of
run a pigeon gets from a gun club. To that
end the Crown puts up an organisation, free
gratis, whereby the prisoner may fight the
Crown. That is to say, it gives him
a copy of the depositions, and assigns
him the most callow of junior barristers. A
typical case may be cited. |srown, of
N.S.W., was indicted for manslaughter. A
barrisfer of nine months’ standing was as-
signed to defend him. On reaching the back-
blocks town in which the sessions were to
be held, counsel called on his client in gaol.
Brown proved to be a citizen of indifferent
brain-power: he had no witnesses, couldn’t
put his hand on any at short notice, and was
due to be tried the next morning. The
prosecuting barrister was Jones, K.C., as
knowledgable and experienced a hand as a
criminal might wish to bump. At the end
of an impressive legal ceremony, Brown
was solemnly “shot sitting,” to the tune of
seven years’ penal servitude. It is not pos-
sible to put in the hands of a hard-up ac-
cused person, for the purpose of establishing
his innocence, the tremendous outside organ-
isation that the Crown has at its command
to establish his guilt. But at least he should
be given a square deal when he comes to
court. To give him that square deal his
defender must be on a par, in experience,
legal knowledge, capacity, and so forth, with
the average Crown Prosecutor. In fact,
Crown Defenders should be well-paid offi-
cials, claimable by any accused person. The
assigned-counsel arrangement is so patently
absurd that the wonder is it has lasted as
long as it has.
The Necessity for a Campaign of Insult.
Dattilo Rubbo, of Sydney, on being asked
to express a candid opinion of the pictures
at Bathurst (N.S.W.) Agricultural and Pas-
toral Show, said things which caused anguish
to the bucolics who had exhibited their
drawings and paintings. And he did well.
Australia’s Millets and Corots must ar-
rive; but the type of painter who is brought
into public notice by the agency of a horse
and cattle fair, would in most cases be bet-
ter employed hoeing mangels. The tragedy
is that hardly anyone says so. Every year
in every big country centre the citizens are
encouraged to spend weeks producing bad
drawings and worse paintings. The metro-
politan artist who judges the outrages gen-
erally murmurs that “the district shows a
distinct advance in the field of Art,” bestows
prizes on what strike him as the least dread-
ful, and departs in an atmosphere of friend-
liness. As for the press, adulation follows
the advertisement. Nothing is rarer than
the just word on the subject. In the coun-
try the absurdity of the indigenous art ex-
hibits is so obvious that they constitute a
standing jest among those who are not re-
sponsible for them, Not so in the cities.
In this regard Sydney, for example, is a by-
word among art-cultivated folk; yet it is
only dimly beginning to suspect the fact.
Last week a cable mentioned that the critics
had pronounced G. W. Lambert’s latest
Academy picture to be “the finest nude study
in the exhibition.” Lambert is an Austra-
lian, and last year he gave a one-man show
in Melbourne. The trustees of the Sydney
Gallery viewed the exhibition, and bought
nothing. Yet they wasted a large sum dur-
ing last year on pictures which —re-
garded as contributions to a national col-
lection —were as unworthy as anything at
the Bathurst Show; and hardly any news-
paper or public man raised a word of pro-
test against either that scandal, or a hun-
dred similar ones. The chief trouble with
this country’s artistic health is the amazing
consideration that is shown to ineptitude.
No one in authority tells the trustees of the
Sydney Art Gallery that they are a politi-
cally-appointed band of sheep-breeders, auc-
tioneers and tradesmen, possessing no techni-
cal or other acquaintance with Art, and un-
fitted, therefore, to buy pictures for the na-
tion. No one raises a word of protest
against the horrible statues that deface the
public spaces. No one informs the folks
who contribute monstrosities to the picture
galleries of agricultural shows, or the offi-
cials who use public funds to encourage
them, that the former deed represents wasted
effort, and the other wasted cash. Lately
the N.S.W. Government announced that it
intended to provide proper facilities for the
encouragement of Art. It is to be sincerely
hoped that the public will back up the Go-
vernment; and it can’t do that worthy thing
better than by telling the bald truth, always
and everywhere, concerning bad art.
Postmaster-General Thomas, the man
who, according to the embittered daily pa-
pers, was introducing chaos to his depart-
ment, straightened out still one more postal
tangle last week, when the penny post set-
led down all through the Commonwealth.
For over 10 years of Commonwealth rule
every State kept its own postal practices:
in Victoria you could send a letter any-
where within the State for a penny; in N. S.
Wales you could only send 20 miles (as a
rule) for the copper; in S. Australia you
couldn’t send a private letter across the
street for less than twopence, though you
could send various specified kinds of litera-
ture for one penny. Already Thomas had
arranged that the stamp of one State should
be good in every other State; and, to com-
plete the work, the man who" “produced
chaos” will present the Commonwealth
with a set of all-Australian stamps very
shortly. As a matter of fact, most of the
commotion Thomas caused in the depart-
ment was due to the disturbance of anoma-
lies ; and it is wonderful how loud anomalies
will squeal when you prod them. Further,
the worse the anomaly, the bigger the undue
advantage that somebody is getting, as a
rule; so the worse the anomaly the worse
the squeal. But there were anomalies
that were just senseless, and didn’t
seem to be benefiting anybody. Years
ago, for instance, coaches used to
strike various Tasmanian townships
on the Sabbath; so the post offices were
opened on that day. In some such cases
there were only two or three mails a week.
The coaches ceased running years ago; or,
with the spread of railways, mails came in
every week-day; yet these post and telegraph
offices continued to remain open on Sun-
days, though they did practically no busi-
ness at all. Every other circumstance
changed, but the Postal Department re-
mained in the old coach rut. When Thomas
first heard of such things he was a Didy-
mus. When he found that the wasteful
absurdities really existed, and proceeded to
end them, he was a Revolutionary. Fortu-
nately, however, even the mildest-mannered
Laborite in Australia gets so used to being
called a Revolutionary that a little thing
like that no longer makes him pause for so
much as a moment.
v — ♦
In every second issue for six or eight weeks
past Melbourne Argus has gushed in catar-
acts of type over a marriage epidemic.
When the last Federal campaign was rag-
ing, the Argus and many of the candidates
it loaded with its favor declared that one
of the most deplorable effects of a Labor
Government would be a cessation of wed-
dings. To this extent Australia under the
Caucus would be like Heaven —there would
be neither marrying nor giving in marriage.
As a result of Capital receiving a shock to
its nervous system, and industry suddenly
withering up, the most lion-hehrted young
man would shrink from the responsibilities
of matrimony. Labor has been in office for
quite a time, and the Marriage March has
developed into a gallop, the bridegroom com-
eth in regiments, and churches and parson-
ages are working overtime. But so far the
Argus has not confessed its error, and ad-
mitted that its judgment was not worth a
stale egg. In fact, while it was whirling
its ecstatic bonnet in the air over the mar-
riage crop, it was putting into circulation
the same old horrid prophecies, and having
the usual visions of fright about the 1200
calamities that would convert Australia into
a sore on the face of nature if the people
voted “Yes” to the Referenda proposals.
From a “Liberal” canvasser: —
As one of the great Liberal party which defeated
the iniquitous Referenda proposals, I wish to say
that, through ignorance or apathy, we only had a
majority of 250,000 votes, a mere 40 per cent, vot-
ing on the questions. Had the other 60 per cent,
gone to the polls, our majority would have been
2,500,000. The apathy of bank managers, squatters,
mining and legal managers is well known, and the
ignorance of shareholders in Gas, Tramway and
other companies is appalling. Hardly a ship or
coal mine owner has ever been known to vote. The
Liberal press is too apathetic to point out to the
electors how they should vote. Misrepresentation
and abuse have been poured upon the great Liberal
party by the powerful and unscrupulous daily Labor
organs. Tens of thousands of pounds of Labor
money has been lavished in defence of the
party’s nefarious policy. Railway and other hoard-
ings have been defaced with these people’s placards
inviting and instructing electors to vote Yes. The
streets have been illuminated at night with electric
signs, inviting them to save the Commonwealth and
destroy the States. Their leaders tea’d and ban-
quetted the wives of struggling millionaires and
magnates, to bribe them into voting against their
convictions. Bricklayers, carpenters, sewerage la-
borers, even bottle accumulators, placed their motor-
cars at the disposal of their leaders. Trading on
the ignorance of our esteemed Chinese fellow-citizens,
Mr. Hughes captured the entire vote of the banana
importers by telling them that if they voted “No”
the marriage tie would be broken and their wives
and children handed over to Messrs. Deakin and
Cook. In spite of their machinations we have
scored a glorious victory. As Mr. Deakin says, we
owe a great deal to the solid and intelligent women’s
vote. The ladies responded nobly, and voted almost
to a woman in the cause of the downtrodden monopo-
list and sweater, and of the Svrian white-work fac-
tory employers, and other true friends of humanity.
Let us organise, and when next the bloated Demo-
crats attempt to rob us of our rights, they will see
that, instead of polling only 40 per cent., the
Commonwealth will poll 140 per cent, at least.
llow David Fell: —
When his leader, Wade, V.C., was making frantic
efforts to have the proposed Referenda tried, hanged,
drawn and quartered in the N.S.W. Assembly early
in December last, David Fell arose as the champion
of Australia and rebuked the Kembla hero. He told
the House: “It is not the first time I have de-
clared myself on the question of the Federation as
against the State. If young Australians have any
national sentiment they recognise the greater poten-
tialities of the Federation against those of the
State. I find to my political embarrassment that,
whenever a Federal question comes up here, I am
entirely out of touch with the members of my party.
The Liberal party has, unfortunately, to my mind,
always put up the State against the Federation,
and the party will always go down. If our party
were in power we should have no objection to the
course proposed. Speaking now for .the Federation, I
say that it should have the power Vbhich it is sought
to give it.” The words are the words of David
Fell, a free agent at the time. And what a
damning indictment of Party Government those words
are! After announcing that this is not the 1 first
time he has declared for Federation against the
State Frighters, and that Australians .must uphold
the former against the latter if they have any na-
tional sentiment, he twitted his own political pals
with always looking on the small side of things.
Then he told them that they were opposing the very
necessary amendments for party reasons, and de-
clared that the Federation should be granted the
powers asked. So far, good. But now consider
what happened afterwards. For over four months
the voice of David Fell was hushed; then, just at the
death, in obedience apparently to the pull of some
unseen party wire, he dawdled into print, lamely
declaring in favor of State Frights, Anti-National-
ism, the Party View, and a waterlogged Federal
Constitution ! After all the talk about Caucus me-
thods, the sflent subterranean “Liberal” method of
bringing party rebels to heel appears far more effi-
cacious.
Now that nothing is to be gained by lying
about them. the Sydney Telegraph
(4/5/T1) thinks much better of the Com-
monwealth’s telephones:—
The telephone system, as far as the mechanical
part of it is concerned, was never at a higher state
of efficiency than at present. The use of the metallic
currents, the conduits, and the installation of so
many common battery-boards of the most modern
type, have brought the State telephone system up-
to-date. It is the human factor that is not so satis-
factory. In past years the Department has been
starved for want of sufficient telephonists, and the
operators have had too many lines to attend to. Re-
cently the demand for telephones has increased so
rapidly that it has been found impossible to train
sufficient telephonists to cope with the new installa-
tions.
So the Labor Government isn’t blamable,
after all. Mechanically the telephone sys-
tem is “up-to-date,” and if the staff isn’t so
satisfactory it is only because “recently”-
that is, while the Telegraph was talking
wildly about the commercial community
throwing up the instruments in disgust—
the commercial community has been rush-
ing for new instruments so enthusiastically
that it was “impossible” to meet the d;-


BEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Led., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE
PRAISE FROM PRACTICAL MEN.*"
YkJ E have heaps of testimonials from users of
Invincible oilengines, marine, stationary and
portable. For instance, Mr. A. E. Bartley, of 57
High Street, Timaru, N.Z., says (24/4/’11)“ We
have now had our launch afloat for two weeks, and
I have great pleasure in informingyou of the great
success which has attended the installing of your
15-h.p. Invincible Motor ; with 65 passengers on
board we made the very satisfactory speed of 10
knots an hour, which I am sure could not be accom-
plished with any other engine that I have seen.
There are two launches here, a 16-h.p., name of a
leading American engine, and a 25-h.p., name of
another American motor, both installed in smaller
boats, and they neither have the speed that your
engine gives to ours. There are a number of
visiting motorists from other seaports here at
present, who greatly admire your work.”
Every Invincible Engine is guaranteed for Five
Years. Invincible Engines—Absolute Reliability
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO.. LTD.'
Works: Woolwich, Sydney. Showrooms : 35 Pit,’
Street, Sydney ; 519 Little Collins Street, Mer
hmb bourne ; Bank Street, Adelaide.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lilyof the
Valley
Natural.
Night-
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes charm
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
ti. z
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
maud for new operators. And, of course, tlie
Commonwealth can’t be blamed for not do-
ing impossibilities. So the Telegraph eats
all the curses it threw at the Common-
wealth’s telephone management during the
Referenda campaign.
~
If anybody has noticed that Strawberry
is giving an extra pint, and that the
speckled hen lays an egg a day regularly
now and twins on Sunday, there’s no need
to get excited about it —it is just the result
of the Referenda vote. In six days the fol-
lowing things (among a thousand others)
were observed by the Melbourne papers:—-
(1) A man who had £IOO,OOO (evidently loose
cash in his pocket) waited until the vote was taken.
Now he has got his coat off and is bogging in at an
“industry” (kind and place not specified, as usual).
(2) Great masses of capital that were on the
wharves, upended, and ready to be hastily tipped
into steamers, have been dragged joyously back in
lorries to various banks and offices.
(3) Several farmers who were going to let weeds
grow on their land have harnessed up Dobbin and
Queen again, and are rapturously tearing the earth
up anew.
(4) Dairymen who had been “down-hearted over
the prospect” have corralled up Daisy and Cherry
once more,. and have kept milking them ever since.
(5) The vote means that the people want the old
Deakook crowd (whom they threw out so violently
a year ago) back again.
(6) It is a direct demand for Fisher to resign.
(7) No one is ever going to vote Labor again.
(8) Everybody is wondering why he ever did so.
(9) At the coming Vic. State elections Labor is
wiped out in advance.
Which in a roundabout way reminds The
Bulletin of two things it has observed
about small boys of a certain type
(1) When they have driven a mouse into a hole
they announce that they have met and killed a lion ;
(2) When they are in the dark they keep telling
themselves “I am not frightened,” in the hope that
somebody will listen to their voice instead of looking
at their shaking legs.
“Fiddling Nero” : I don’t want to unduly
swell the outcry against the Referenda back-
sliders, but I give notice that at the next
meeting of the Australian Labor party the
following questions will be asked: —-
(1) Why did a party of New South Wales Labor
members employ the week before polling day in a
picnic to Kosciusko ?
(2) How much of the cost of the jaunt was paid
by the jaunters?
(3) What extraordinary event was it that led
members away from the base of one of the most
momentous struggles a constituency could be engaged
in?
(4) If, as stated, Holman led the party to in-
spect Government improvements to the tourist re-
sort, will he, as Acting-Premier, explain why highly-
paid inspectors have to be assisted in their work
by members of the Assembly?
There are two or three other things I’d like
to know, but I’ve no doubt somebody else has
given notice of them. I’ll see they are not
overlooked, anyhow.
George Blakemore, lately general manager
of Great Cobar, talks oil from California: —
Just as the rush to use electrical power marked
the last years of the 19th century, so the rush to
use oil power promises to mark the second decade of
the 20th century.
The oil-production figures for California for 1910
were 76,000,000 barrels of 35 English gallons, and
apparently in a year or two even this large output will
be much increased. There is an agitation to have
the Pacific Coast fleet fitted with oil burners; the
railways have changed their locomotives long ago to
burn oil; the city municipal authorities are being
educated to use oil everywhere for roads. The one
city of Los Angeles consumed 5,000,000 barrels of
crude oil in road-making last year. If they knew
how to make roads in California they probably
wouldn’t use so much. When newly made the oil
read is a dream of delight to the motorist. Imagine
travelling on a perfectly smooth, black, india-rubber
belt—that is an oil road, freshly made. The con-
struction method is to plough up the centre of the
earth track, remove four inches of earth, replace it
with about three inches of rock crushed to egg size,
roll this, cover it with one inch of fine spalls and
roll again, then drench it with oil costing (delivered)
about ss. 3d. for 35 imperial gallons. After a day
or so, the oiled surface is well rolled, then dusted
over with about one-third of an inch of gravel or
fine sand. The traffic soon produces the rubber-like
surface. The California oils nearly all have an
asphaltic base; the lighter oils rapidly distil out,
leaving behind the thick residuum, which, under the
action of air, sun and water, rapidly oxidises into a
hard surface. But, made so lightly, it soon goes to
pieces. If the tracks were made as they are made
in Australia, and oil were used as a top dressing,
they should be perfect for a very long time, and
nearly dustless.
At the wells the price of oil varies. The usual
crude oil is worth 40 to 50 cents per barrel of 35
imperial gallons (42 American gallons). But in the
case of wells producing a lighter oil, such as the Ven-
tura district affords, the price may be as high as
$1.50 per barrel.
The opening of the Panama Canal will probably
be the cause of a greatly-increased consumption. It
seems to be the intention of the United States Gov-
ernment to establish supply depots on the canal for
the use of ships passing through, and oil depots are
sure to be one of the conveniences.
Vast quantities of gas are being wasted daily on
most of the oil fields. One well, owned by the
Honolulu Oil Co., in the Buena Vista Hill, California,
is estimated to be vomiting 35,000,000 cubic feet of
gas per day. It took fire not long ago. The
tongue of flame shot 400 feet into the air. The heat
was so great that no one could approach nearer
than 200 yards. It burnt for 10 days before the
flame was extinguished by using steam from six
boilers. A gas well pure and simple produces a
“dry” gas—that is, on compression it yields a very
small percentage of gasolene. The gas emitted from
a well yielding oil produces two gallons of gasolene
from every 1000 feet of gas.
Gil as fuel in furnaces is probably the most con-
venient that can be used. Any heat that coal will
produce can be obtained by merely turning the oil
tap ; there are no ashes to wheel away, and no coal
to sling into the fireboxes. About 120 gallons of
crude oil are reckoned equal to one ton of coal of the
best steam quality, so that the same power is stored
in much less than half the weight. In battleships it
means that the radius of action could be nearly
trebled. It is very evident, then, that oil will be
a very important factor in the future. The country
that hasn’t got it had better start looking for it.
Whether Australasia will ever become an oil pro-
ducer it is difficult to say; but it will be very strange
if it should be the only section of the world in which
oil is not fodnd. The discovery probably depends
on finding the right geological formation, with experi-
mental boring, which of course is always expensive,
and even in established oil fields is sometimes a lot-
tery. The Australian State Geologists should have
the tremendous importance of the matter impressed
upon them.
“Left Hand”: The man who said in a recent
Bulletin that the first-part of Richards’s shows is
indispensable from a box-office point of view can
never have sat out that part of the performance. In
order to keep my job I have repeatedly been forced
to attend these shows, and X can certify that never,
even when there has been a crowded house, has a
first-part item been encored ; and nearly all of them
get so little applause that you could drown it in the
Cotter. The first-part is taken good-humoredly be-
cause of the stuff that comes in the second. If it
were all first-part, Rickards would be looking for a
job. ‘
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Dollar Princess.”
Criterion “The Gay Gordons.”
ADKLmi “ The Bad Girl of the Family.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville. Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
New Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Picturesi
Town Hall Sousa’s Band.
Protestant Hall Lectures—W. T. Mills, M.A.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMLNU WEEK.
Princess’s “ Arms and the Man.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs."
Koyal “ The Belle of Brittany.”
King’s “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
“Our Miss Gibbs” has gone. During the
past few months she has utterly demoralised
every newspaper office in Sydney. Fight
months or so back, when Gerald Marr
Thompson began to write about her in the
S. M. Herald, he was a large, tall, gay man,
with a heavy crop of hair. Since then the
strain of writing something fresh twice a
week about the monotonous female has
shrunk him to a small, spare, desperate man,
who has torn off almost every vestige of his
thatch. Every other theatrical critic is
more or less a wreck ; and it is giving away
no office secret to say that it was the sight
of these halt and maimed pressmen that
moved the management to do something for
the hospitals. . On the principle of giving a
hair of the dog that did the biting, J.C.W.
hands over to the repairing shops half the
last night’s gross proceeds. “Gibbs” is to
to be followed on Saturday night at the
Royal by “The Dollar Princess,” with Flor-
ence Young, Roberts, Olive Godwin, Lottie
Sargent, Bert Gilbert and other old comic-
op. favorites in the cast.
** * *
“Jack and the Beanstalk” continues to
crowd Ller Majesty’s (Sydney) eight times
a week. When it is known that the box-
office man has already had to undergo a
course of treatment for Cashier’s Cramp—a
complaint more serious than the dreaded
Beer-sparrer’s Elbow, and akin in many re-
spects to Housemaid’s Knee itself—some
faint idea of the firm’s profits from the new
panto, may be obtained.
** * *
After Friday night “The Woman in the
Case” removes her pink hair, her passion for
liquor and her deplorable ethics to Mel-
bourne. Her place at Svdney Criterion will
be filled by the Clarke-Meynell Opera Co. in
“The Gay Gordons.”
“JACK AND THE
BEANSTALK”
AT HER
MAJESTY'S ,
SYDNEY.
Neil Kenyon
as Dame
Trot.
“ Hipsy is hethe
Prince (Anna
Doherty).
Give a girl a bad name and she’ll fill a
theatre, as George Marlow knows. If he
had opened the Adelphi at Sydney with a
play starred as “The Good Girl of the House-
hold,” or “The Best Girl in the Sunday-
school,” he’d have done poor business, and
Virtue would have been out of a job long
since; but instead of that he handed up “The
Bad Girl of the Family,” with the assurance
that she was “the most sensational bedroom
drama ever staged.” Six weeks have passed
since then, and the bad girl is still sinning
nightly to crowded houses. When she is no
longer able to earn the rent, the management
may introduce “The Worst Tart Since Cleo-
patra,” and introduce it as the greatest cor-
set drama of the age.
** * *
The seven juggling Perezoffs, at Sydney
Tivoli, score their loudest laugh when a
member of the company, dressed as a waiter,
hits a brother food-carrier sharply on the
waistcoat with a hammer and smashes a
concealed plate into fragments. A helplessly
indignant man, with broken crockery stream-
ing from his vest and rattling on the stage, is
calculated to shake a bray out of the most
doleful ass. It is so utterly absurd and un-
expected that the pitiless critic who rather
prides himself on never laughing at buffoon-
ery needs to be warned about it; otherwise he
may be surprised into uttering a clown-like
guffaw, and be dragged down to the level of
those who are amused by such antics. The
lively turn is full of humor and excellent by-
play. Cadwall and Verne, a youthful and
subdued comedy pair, whose turn has an
American flavor, rattle through some non-
sense and clogdance. Reichen’s acrobatic
dogs are scientifically interesting; but the
small clown who emerges from his box be-
tween tricks, and turns somersaults, is per-
haps the best part of the turn. Peggy Pryde,
Deli no, of the slack wire, Tom Dawson and
Black and White are the other noticeable
headliners of an entertaining bill.
** * *
Sousa’s band will commence to play in
Sydney at 8 p.m. next Monday, at the Town
Hall, and at that hour precisely “Yip-i-addy”
will be given notice to pass over its popularity
to “El Capitan” or “The Cotton King,” or
some musical celebrity created by the famous
composer and conductor. There are 60 in-
strumentalists in the band, and Sousa
reckons to let Australians hear his own favor-
ite march, “The Stars and Stripes for Ever,”
as they neyer heard it before.
FRITZ HART
Conductor of the
“Merry Widow”
Orchestra at Her
Majesty's , Mel-
bourne.
Professor Walter Thomas Mills, M.A., au-
thor of those two remarkable books, “The
Struggle for Existence” and the “Science of
Politics,” will begin his lecture season in
Sydney at the Protestant Hall, Castlereagh-
street, on Saturday night. Mr. Mills is a
speaker of vast experience, and the stuff of
which his lectures are composed is the best
of mental meat. The course will run through-
out the week, and will cover practically every
branch of advanced political thought.
** * *
Glad, in the Mrs. Burnett drama, “The
Dawn of a To-morrow,” is an exponent of
faith whom the churches and little Willie
Judkins would hesitate to embrace. The
authoress sets up this primitive she-Wowser
of the slums as an example of the unfailing-
success of implicit confidence in the excel-
lent intentions of the Deity, and then forgets
herself and her principles so far as to per-
mit this young hussy to bargain with the
bold bad man of fashion in a shockingly
rdrty manner. Glad actually undertakes
to be his to have and to hold —minus the
marriage ceremony—in the event of her
latest and most important prayer not being-
answered within a brief time-limit. Ob-
viously in her own mind Glad’s bid for a
miracle is a good deal in the nature of a
gamble in which she has a bit both ways.
Mrs. F. PI. Burnett’s religious principles
don’t hang together, and her play is over-
taken by the fate that smites all attempts
at dramatic Wowsing. It is neither a co-
herent and comely drama nor a complete
and convincing church service. Still, in-
terest circulates freely around and about
“The Dawn of a To-morrow,” touching it in
many places, and just now the Princess’s is
deserving well of those people who ask for
earnest aims in the theatre, even if the bull’s-
eye is not smitten. “Arms and the Man”
is announced to be nearly fit for publica-
tion, and when “To-morrow” passes, the
piquant Pshaw will follow on.
* * *
“The Merry Widow” Co. is packing up at
Her Majesty’s { Melbourne), and other peo-
ple are preparing for next Saturday’s ap-
pearance of “Our Miss Gibbs.” On the
Tuesday afternoon following, the long-looked-
for benefit to Gerard Coventry will be ten-
dered at the same popular place of amuse-
ment. At this matinee there will be seen
and heard many illustrious persons, includ-
ing some vaudeville artists, each of whom
will now, with your kind permission, en-
deavor to give the audience a turn.
** * *
The only thing to announce about “The
Belle of Brittany” at the Melbourne Royal
this week is that the University’s young men
will patronise a performance next Wednes-
day evening. The students are saving up
their yells and whistles, and are also making
ready to decorate the theatre with the usual
pretty designs and piquant devices.
W. Anderson unleashed “The Squatter's
Daughter” for another run at Melbourne
King’s last Saturday night. As may be re-
called, this is the play in which Ben Hall
roams through gullies and gums, the
while belligerent ants bite a maiden lady.
The ants were in great form on Saturday
night, and forced the lady, Miss Lillie Bryer,
into some wonderful imitations of a factory
whistle with a pain. Other humorous inci-
dents in the piece are furnished by Bert
Bailey, whose watch has to gallop to catch
up to the age of some of his jests. Rut-
land Beckett is Dudley Harrington, a villain
in quest of new sins; and Max Clifton dis-
guises his appearance in borrowed whiskers
and a swaggie’s moles. Ben Hall is Ned Duggan
in private life, and one notes that Ben finds
Ned’s Little Mary somewhat inconvenient
for strenuous bushranging. The lovely hero,
Tom Bathurst, is played by Roy Redgrave!
On Saturday his attempts at love-making
were foiled by the rather unresponsive acting
of Miss Helen Burdett. The young lady, in
the chief character of Violet Enderby, had
her respiration jarred by her long opening
speech in the first act, and seemed to spend
the rest of the evening in trying to make
her breathing regain its rhythm. The only
other member of the cast who may be men-
tioned is Miss Marie De Alton, as yet a little
green, but with good promise of a satisfac-
tory maturity.
** * *
Barrie’s “Alice-sit-by-the-Fire” was tried
by the Melbourne University Dramatic Club
at the Turn Verein Hall one evening last
week. The play, which is new to Aus-
tralia, represents Barrie in one of his moods
of Simple Sam my ism. In tlie first act lie
introduces Cosmo and Amy, prime samples
of artlessness and romantic immaturity.
Then, while we are listening to their play
of conversation, he intrudes the parents of
the pair, Colonel and Alice Grey, followed
by Mr. Stephen Rollo, the intimate of the
family. Presently the author prods the lot
with a stick of whimsicality, and sets the
most of them periorming mock-erotic evolu-
tions. Amy, who is addicted to “blow-
outs” on popular melodrama, is early mis-
construing her mother’s friendliness for
the unfortunate Mr. Rollo. On the other
hand, mother suspects that Amy has a large,
clandestine leaning towards the same young
man. Both, however, are innocent of giddy
intent, and, after one act of complexity, anil
another of explanation, the whole structure
is blown by Barrie’s gas to a rather stodgy
conclusion. Strictb’ speaking, the drama
is only a device on which Mr. Barrie strops
his dramatic invention. Some of the tricks
—as, for instance, the use of the gloves and
cupboard in the second act —look a little
old and stagey from the ingenious conceiver
of “The Admirable Crichton.” Moreover,
the bulk of the characters have not the ar-
resting qualities of vital portraits. They
are more in the nature of silhouettes, ob-
served through a haze of sentimentality.
But the parts of Amy and her mother are
exceptionally well drawn, and were attrac-
tively taken by Miss Unie Russell and Mrs.
Cornish respectively. Of the others Miss
Lucy Verdon gave a short, droll sketch of
the servant, Richardson; and Sol Bloom
tried to make Stephen Rollo something more
than a mere spectator of his fictitious pecca-
dilloes.
** * #
R. A. Roberts, accompanied by wigs,
clothes, and a charming copy of an inn in-
terior, dropped into the Opera House last
Saturday. The newcomer is the latest ex-
ponent of the quick-change business; he not
only swaps his clothes with striking rap-
idity, but with each new change assumes
fresh mannerisms, gaits and tricks of speech.
So he really seems to be not one being but
five. Altogether Roberts’s act is excellent,
and the arrangement of The Spaniards Inn
shows a fine talent for stage setting.
** * *
“What Shall We Do with Our Old?” is
the title of a striking picture shown at West’s
building, Melbourne. An old toiler is dis-
charged from his job on account of failing
energy and growing age. He and his missus
thereupon start to starve, and the poor old
woman perishes on a miserable bed in a
naked room. The picture stops there—-prob-
ably out of regard for the feelings of the Fat
gentlemen who don’t like to be reminded of
the fact that the _ home-wrecking, happiness-
destroying Socialists have already accom-
plished old-age pensions.
** * *
The Prahran Lyric (Vic.) continues to
show nothing so interesting as its dramas and
pictures oi travel. Last Saturday two good
color subjects were screened in a well-acted
version of “The Merchant of Venice” and a
study of some rapids in the Philippine
Islands. The latter showed exceedingly skil-
ful tinting: the scene, from the rushing water
to the boats and vegetation, was full of
wonderful effects.
** * *
The three Columbia Comedians have been
mixing fun with music at Adelaide Tivoli;
and the two Lillies vary their “mirror”
dance with some clever skipping-rope work,
after the manner of the lady who is now
Countess of Orkney—their singing voicfes are
not unlike hers, either. (No flattery is in-


g
m
1
M
4 m 4
iiM
ijWhere the'
Costs
for Cash
sdf
Motor Street Cleaners.
The Renault Co. of Paris appear to be always
leading the world in automobile matters, and
their latest achievement is the supplying to the
city of Paris a number of metor-driven street
sweepers. The experiment is a distinct success,
and our city council would dp well to enquire into
such an invention.*
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS.
tended.) Ted Kalman, at this house, has
the pluck to sing a Working Man song.
Pluck, because the London music-halls, where
the success of a song is made, are mostly
occupied by the Capitalist in front and the
Clerk behind, and their usual tone is that
of a rather savage contempt for the work-
man, whom they prefer to see represented as
a type that doesn’t work and doesn’t wash.
“Who builds all the workhouses and asylums
and gaols? The Working Man. _ And who
fills them?” But even Kalman’s pluck is
not equal to giving the answer to that.
Woods and Miss Williamson have come in to
the Royal with a Marion Crawford play;
the “Scarlet Troubadours” are coming (re-
grettably) to the end of their season at the
King’s ; the Unley competitions are crowding
the most up-to-date of suburban “city” halls
with all-round programmes; and a Price Me-
morial Oval (in memory of the late Pre-
mier) has been opened with a Continental.
Adelaide, which is almost reduced to pray-
ing for rain, has had a great summer for
“Continentals.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
Ten thousand friends of George Rignold will give
a sympathetic thought to the old tragedian over the
death of his wife, which occurred last week. Before
her marriage she was Miss Georgina Coppin, a
daughter of another famous old George; and for
some time she was the only woman, as far as The
Bulletin knows, on the Board .of an Australian
public co.—the Melbourne Theatre Royal Proprietary.
She had previously been her father’s secretary.
“Lud”: When Irving first played “Charles I.” in
London, there was great democratic indignation over
Belmore’s Cromwell. Wills, the author, painted
Cromwell in the most atrocious aspect, and Belmore
filled the author’s instructions by making him as
ugly, mean and contemptible as possible, as a foil
to the divine Charles. One Colonel Richards had fore-
seen the situation, and was hawking round a play
about Cromwell, based on Victor Hugo’s, and pre-
senting the Protector in the most lofty and noble
manner. The Radicals seized on this, and produced
it, with George Rignold as Cromwell, and well he
embodied the part. Such thunders of applause as
small audiences could provide were there, and the
management at all events enjoyed the fun of putting
its hands in its pockets to vindicate old Noll. Of
course it soon ran out. Rignold was spurred on
through a curious happening. Bateman was at the
Lyceum, and after several failures, he came to the
conclusion that Irving was not the leading man the
house needed; so he tried to replace Irving with
George Rignold, from the Queen’s, where George had
done particularly well in Caliban and other parts.
Rignold asked the advice of the veteran Jack Ryder.
“Stop where you are,” says Ryder; “Bateman will
be in the Bankruptcy Court in a month.” Indeed,
things were shaping that way. But a new piece
arrived; it proved to be “The Bells,” and that was
the turning point of Irving’s fame. Irving was sum-
moned forth with shouts, and appeared bowing and
panting in his shirt-sleeves; and, instead of Bateman
going bankrupt, he at once put up Irving’s salary
from £l5 to £25 a week.
“W.F.”: William Hoskins’s nephew (B. 27/4/’l>)
apparently knows very little about his unme’s Lon-
don career. First, then, Macready, the greatest of
all the Richelieus, never acted at Sadlers Wells,
and William Hoskins, never led the business there. I
was at the house from 1843 to 1852, so 1 can speak
of what I know. Phelps and Greenwood had the
Wells from 1844 to 1861. Greenwood left in 1861
and Phelps a year later. Phelps, Henry Marston
and George Bennet were the leading tragedians most
of. that time, Phelps always. William Hoskins
joined the company in 1846 as light comedian; he
never played a leading tragic part there but once,
and that was on his benefit night, when Phelps let
him play Othello. Phelps played lago, Marston
Cassio. _ Morton’s “School of Reform” was the
other piece; Hoskins played Tyke. Nevertheless,
Hoskins was very popular at the Wells in general
comedy ; but such parts as Benedick, Mercutio and
Petruchio were always played by Henry Marston.
Later on he did good work, in Ballarat as manager
of the old Theatre Royal in Sturt-street, from its
opening on Boxing Night, 1858, and for some years
as lessee, producing in good style many of Shaks-
peare’s plays. Here he was supported by a com-
pany consisting of Henry Neil Warren, G. H.
Rogers, Hoskins himself, Stuart O’Brien, John Dunn,
Leslie and Rosa Dunn, Julia Harland, Mrs. Roy,
Miss Glyndon, Mrs. T. S. Bellair and others who
could hold their own with any combination in Aus-
tralia.
“L H P.”: Heartily endorse all that “Billy s
Nephew” (B. 27/4/’ll) says re his uncle, especially
as to “The Tempest” production in 1869 at the now
defunct Sydney Prince of Wales Opera House. That
was a glorious show, with scenery by Alfred Clint,
and “stage groupings” by Geo. Leopold, who nowa-
days would be called a “producer.” Hoskins, who
was responsible for the whole production, added the
sub-title “or the Enchanted Isle,” which looked very
alluring on the bills. He himself played Prospero,
and Florence Colville was Miranda, with the rest of
the cast thus: Ferdinand, 11. N. Douglas; Caliban,
Charles Hall; Alonzo, Holloway; Gonzala, J. J.
Welch; Stephano, Charles Young; Trinculo, Wil-
liam Andrews; Sebastian, J. H. Rainford; An-
tonio, Tom Leopold; Adrian, Hasker; Ariel and
Ceres, Kate Corcoran; Juno, Nellie Montague; and
Iris, Eleanor Carey. Hoskins made the opening
wreck, always an awkward thing to stage, a me-
chanical scene, which means that no dialogue was
used. Then he hurried on to the play proper at
Prospero’s cell, which he made do duty for Act 1.,
the wreck being billed as the “prologue.” Jack Renno
was mechanist, and Mrs. Stapleton supplied the
dresses for this rare Shakspearian revival —it has
only been done once since, in Australia, and that
was by George Rignold in Melbourne in the ’Bo’s.
Poverty Point in Adelaide has simply bristled
with Costs of late. First, A. E. Martin, formerly
editor of the now defunct Gadfly, sued the Casino
picture show for wrongful dismissal as manager, and
got damages. Then the Casino shut up suddenly,
whereupon numerous offensive documents dropped
into the letter-box. Mendel Finkelstein, of the
Wondergraph, won his test case against the Govern-
ment, Magistrate Gepp affirming that the Chief Sec.
could not shut up his Sunday show. The same
Finkefotein, in collaboration with M. Marcus, man-
ager of Rickards’s Tivoli, sued the Government for
disallowing them to use the Continental Gardens after
giving a lease, and they got £2OO. Finkelstein and
Marcus are now going for another £4OO. The Gov-
ernment’s burst of Wowerism is costing it more than
a Sabbath day’s collection. A lady in the “Gay
Gordons” sued Meynell and Gunn’s manager for
breach of contract, and lost the case, and the pro-
prietors of the Stadium sued the National (boxing)
Arena for £3O and won, though an appeal is pend-
ing. Also a Pierrot charged a theatrical agent
with attempted choking, or some such horrible prac-
tice, and a charge of blackmail was being prepared
when a friendly solicitor got the case settled on the
outskirts of the court.
After the disbandment of the Hugh J. Ward co.
in Melbourne next month, Grace Palotta will pack
her frocks for Vienna, where home and mother are.
Ruby Baxter, another bright girl of the show, will
only go as far as London.
“Floater”: Uriless something goes wrong with the
works, Quinlan’s Operatic Co. will descend on Aus-
tralia next year. Quinlan is the latest impresario
with gold-cased pockets. He has, it is said, cap-
tured the Dutch soprano, Jeanne Joglli, for the Aus-
tralian season. Also he has secured John Coates,
John Harrison, Allen Hinckley and Bettina Freeman,
and, among many others, our long-absent song-bird,
Lalla Miranda. His repertoire ’ includes “Faust,”
“Ai'da,” “Carmen,” “Tannhauser,” “The Valkyrie,”
“Lohengrin,” “Tristan and Isolde,” “Tales of Hoff-
mann, ’ Debussy’s “L’Enfant Prodigue,” and the
popular Puccini trinity, “La Boheme,” “Madame
Butterfly,” and “The Girl of the Golden West.”
“Petramos”: The theatrical treasurer who em-
ploys a genius of the prize ring is liable to lunacy
at any minute. He can get hardened to lawyer’s let-
ters, threats of arrest and the whole legal para-
phernalia, but a pugilist with the light of genius
flashing on his knuckles is apt to become nerve-
racking. A treasurer once had to deal with big
Peter Felix and another boxer who was merely white.
Peter and his confrere grew anxious about £l4
owing to, them and called on the treasurer, who was
counting the night’s takings. The white boxer ex-
plained the situation, and the treasurer informed
him that treasury day was “next Monday.” Peter
waved the white boxer to one side, and addressed
the treasurer. Said he: “Say, heeyali ! We want
our money. We want foahteen paounds or we
take the lot.” The treasurer considered. He
wasn’t in training. He looked at the big black’s
face and then at his fist, and decided it would be
undignified to “fight for the house.” He counted
14 sovereigns into the colored person’s palm and
went home without a fracture.
“Spotlight”: “Sinnicuss” refers (B. 4/5/’ll) to
the Williamson management’s “Caledonian charity”
in doubling the prices for the “Gibbs” last night,
and halving the proceeds with the Sydney Hospital.
In the first place, the prices were not doubled. The
ordinary booking price of stalls and dress-circle is
6,5. The last-night price was fixed at 10s., and there
were not enough seats at that to meet the demand.
The gallery early-door price is 2s. ; for the last
night it was made 3s. There is little doubt that the
increased charges could have been obtained without
any halving. Charity is notoriously the worst line
that can be put at the top of a bill. And when
mean motives are charged to those who place it
there, it won’t inspire managers to be in a hurry
to adopt it. It will be seen, however, that the
Williamson firm, in handing over half the gross
takings of the last night of “Gibbs,” lost on ordinary
charges by every seat sold, and has to foot the bill
(probably £150) for the night’s running expenses.
The Sydney Hospital association, it is safe to say,
never brought in a bob. The occasion was entirely
responsible for the house. In London and New
York it is a regular practice to raise the prices for
the last night. Instance “The Merry Widow,” when
as high as £lO was paid for a stall. That went into
the treasury of the management. Because a show
has a s ceessful run, there is no reason wry part of
its earnings should be disgorged. You don’t see any
other enterprise doing anything of the kind. And
there are concerns in Sydney making larger profits
than come the way of theatrical entrepreneurs. From
what I can see of the game, anyone who takes on
the risks attending theatrical management has a
rhighty solid claim on the fruits of the gamble. If,
incidentally, the manager can hit up a bit for a hos-
pital—not being so greedy as to pocket all he can, like
most people who are out for dollars—of course it is
only to be expected that somebody will take out in
squeal what he is asked to hand in “charity.” It
isn’t hard to spot where the Caledonian figures in
the matter, either.
London’s new immense West End music-hall, the
Palladium, has, after a short experience at the usual
London prices, suddenly introduced a popular scale,
with two “houses” every evening: one at 6.20, for
the “must be home by nine” crowd, and the other
at 9.10, presumably for the “can’t-get-away-till-I’ve-
washed-ups” and the “never-finish-dinner-before-
nines.” The power of the odd copper in England is
shown by the nicely-graduated prices—4d., 6d., 9d.,
Is., Is. 6d., 25., 2s. 6d. Any seat in the house can
be booked for 2d. or 3d. extra, and a fine programme,
including Matheson Lang and Hutin Britton, is
given for the money.
“Harrison O.”: Not only has the drama gone to
bed, but even the vaudeville show has got between
the sheets. The theatrical rage of Berlin is the
performance of Mimi Frohlich, who sings a song,
“Good night and good morning,” while lying in bed
clad in something ravishing in the way of a
nightie.
“Snell”: It has come! We have had love-songs
in comic-opera tuned to the amors of a sausage;
the love affairs of cats, barndoor poultry, and can-
aries have been set to song; in “The Geisha” they
even warbled the pathetic misfortunes of a love-lorn
gold-fish ; but in “The Belle of Brittany” they touch
limit with the ballad of the billvgoat, a love duet of
the common or garden he-goat, with his whiskers
and his peculiar atmosphere thick upon him, and the
twittering she-goat in a sentimental mood. Actor
and actress give Nature studies and life-like imita-
tions of the romantic goat, and nobody throws car-
rots, and turnips, and cabbage-heads, and similar
suitable compliments; although these vegetable pro-
ducts were never more called for on any stage.
“L.H.P.”: Now that there is trouble in Mexico,
someone ought' to give us a play or an opera with
a Mexican setting. It is curious how little use
the English stage has made of the country. Natur-
ally the playwrights of Uncle Sam’s land, being so
handy, have used Mexico over and over again, but
very few of these pieces stand the voyage across the
Pacific. Anyway, they are never seen here. Even
Australian playwrights, who are prone to rush to
London for their subjects, might give it a trial. Its
history simply reeks with ready-made romance.
“S.T.S.”: Surely it is not really “strange,” as
“Harefoot” suggests (B. 20/4/’ll), that Beerbohm
Tree should have selected an act from “Money” to
play on Coronation Night. That King George should
have plumped for Lytton’s old-fashioned work in its
entirety at Drury Lane, “as against the whole range
of the drama,” is strange. But the drawing-room
scene is notorious for bringing so many fat character-
parts on the stage that it has always been the pet
resource of any manager having more offers of help
from stars on a special occasion than he could well
find room for.
Nothing is more finely satirical in Charles Morice’s
romantic story of Christ in Paris than the climax of
it. The machinery of “Christian” civilisation being
brought to a sudden standstill by the influence of
Christ’s presence in Paris, the President of the Re-
public and the Prefect of Police decide to ask Him
to leave France, so He quits the city on Christmas
Day. Just when “Peace on Earth and Goodwill
Towards Men” is the topical text of hypocrisy, Jesus
is expelled by the official powers that be. The con-
trast is striking between the Frenchman’s startling
novel and the saccharine morality of “The Passing
of the Third Floor Back.” The play preaches the
Christianity of the Church, whose comfortable pro-
fessors cut their religion to suit commonplace,
boarding-house humanity, and deal only with the
surface of civilisation. The book strikes at its roots,
and satirises the Church’s pretensions to reconcile
Christian principles with time-saving practices.
The trials of the tragedian, as disclosed in a new
American story, “Jim Hands.” “There are only
about seven shows a year that play this town, and
about three are Uncle Tom’s Cabin companies,
where all the fellows that sit in the front row bring
meat to throw on the stage and make the blood-
hounds forget about the girl they’re chasing.”
“ THE DAWN OF A TO-MORROW,"
MELBOURNE PRINCESS'S.
Picture of Apple Blossom Court, and one of the
apple blossoms therein.
“A Rickardsian” (from Fogtown) : There are very
few genuine music halls left in London, most of
them having lost their characters by putting on
rubbishy sketches and one-act plays by frozen-out
mummers. The old-time, merry music-hall pro-
gramme of song and dance has gone, and stupid
animal acts, changeless acrobatic turns, and babyish
bicycle feats, are mere padding for the silly sketch
and the futile farce. Only the Tivoli, in the Strand,
keeps up a high standard of music-hall business.
There were 20 turns last night, some good and
some Yankee, mostly singing and dancing, without
any play-acting. We Australian playgoers have
a lot to be thankful for in relation to our music-
halls.
“R. 8.” (from the Cape) : South Africans have
been remarking lately how few Africanders have
taken to mumming. Australians, on the other hand,
are many in the land arid are doing well. Grant
Fallews manages Leonard Rayne’s cos.; he has re-
sided 20 years in S’Africa. The Wheelers are the
thing in musical comedy, and came here from Aus-
tralia many years ago. The Steel-Payne family of
bellringers "always play to bumper houses, and must
have minted money. Howard Edie has been doing
good business as Press agent, piloting cos. through
South and East Africa and Egypt. He is now
ahead of Sousa’s Band, and is securing guarantees
from almost every town. Ada Crossley is also in
his care. Terry, the wood-chopper, did very well,
and his friend, Donaldson, the sprinter, has also
loomed large on the Rand. Most of the showmen of
the flickergraph are Australians, and a good per-
centage of the pressmen. At one time Australians
were discreetly told to conceal their nationality,
owing to the name won by the farm-burners; but
this prejudice is dying out, though a considerable
amount of jealousy still exists. Which is not to be
wondered at when you consider the positions Aus-
tralians invariably win for themselves in other
countries.
N.S. W. Probate Judge Street had to decide
a curious case the other day. One Abdy, who
married in 1842, left his wife in 1851, taking a son
with him. His wife took another child, a
daughter, and left Armidale (N.S. W.), since when
neither she nor the daughter have been heard of.
Subsequently Abdy turned up in Gympie (Q.)
with a new wife, and lived with her from 1855 to
1889, when he died. Twenty years later a legal
shindy broke out amongst the children concerning
his money, in the course of which frantic
efforts were made to find the original wife, dead
or alive. These failed as utterly as did inquiries
concerning the where and the when of the second
marriage. No proof of the marriage could be
found, and the casual Abdy had likewise forgotten
to make a will to ensure the position of several
children by the second wife. Justice Street
decided that onus of proof of decease of the first
wife and marriage of the second wife rested wholly
with the second family, and, as no proofs of either
could be produced, the estate was ordered to be-
divided between the two children by the original!
marriage, or as many of the two as can be foundi
—which is one.
During a recent inquest in Sydney on at
woman who was alleged to have died from an
illegal operation, the Crown produced several
copies of the Evening News, and, opening one of
March 14, read an advertisement, which said :
Ladies—Consult Nurse Blank, at Blank-street,
Redfern.
Mr. Mant (for the Crown) remarked that the daily
papers still inserted such advertisements in their
columns, although they had been requested not to
do it. Yet, if, as a result of one of these adver-
tisements, a woman went to an abortionist and
was killed, and if the Crown Law authorities then
indicted the newspaper as an accessory before the
fact, the proceedings would, no doubt, be con-
demned as a gross interference with Private
Enterprise. Still, some day even that might be
worth risking.
Adelaide talked much lately about the
“weakness” of Judge Homburg in allowing
counsel to drag out a commercial case from the
end of March to the beginning of May; but
when it ended he showed that he was not too
weak to use an axe. First, he gave his judgment
immediately the last counsel sat down ; and then
he got to work on the Costs. Paris Nesbit, K.C.„
and J. R. Anderson, K.C., on one side, with
Symon, K.C., and Mostyn Evan on the other,
had enjoyed themselves for 18 days over the case,
and it ought (said the Judge) to have been fin-
ished in eight. Costs accordingly. Plaintiff got
the £975 he claimed, and defendants the £lO5O
they counter claimed ; so, if this paper knows
anything of law (and it has bought some in its
time), both sides are now mighty sorry they did
not settle the matter by the spin of a coin when it
first cropped up. Even the Register, with all its
respect for Established Institutions, says that
‘ ‘ many people would almost prefer Purgatory to
a Court”; that “three level-headed men, with
the facts placed succinctly before them, could
surely have settled the case in a day or two ” ;
and that a Commission should be appointed to
inquire into “ the mystery of The System which
tends so often to empty men’s pockets and break
their hearts.”
The Ballarat police have just given up an
identification problem that should teach a lesson
to those who are cocksure of the identity of a
person they may have seen once for perhaps five
minutes. A man who had stayed a few days at a
Golden City hotel committed suicide, and when
the Coroner investigated he was faced with the
fact that the deceased not only owned six names,
but was apparently four or five different people.
Three persons identified him as Wilson, alias
“ Queensland Jack ”; two others called in and
said he was John Pierce, of Sydney ; and a lady
came in and wept over him as her dead brother,
one Sagar, whom she identified by certain tattoo
marks and clothing and missing teeth. After that
a reputable citizen dropped in and said the corpse
was his old pal Charles Blanchfield; he
described certain articles they had bought toge-
ther, and, sure enough, similar articles were
found in deceased's swag. Later still a Geelong
man said that Percy James and Sagar were one
and the same, but that “ Queensland Jack ’’ was
different. Finally, another identifier said that
deceased’s real name was Willis, and —but at
that stage the Law shut down, and buried the
departed as John Wilson, and left the tangle for
Judgment Day to straighten out.
A few days ago Invercargill, M.L.’s big-
gest “dry ” town, came out of its sly-grog hiding-
places and went the total animal in the open for
a change. Selecting Park Reserve, in the centre
of the town, about 30 men rolled large 25-gallon
kegs of beer into it on the Saturday night, and
proceeded to create a record in drunken orgies.
All through that night and Sunday they alter-
nately sang, cursed, fought and pursued blue
devils round the casks. When the Southland
Times called round before going to press with its
Monday morning issue it found things like this :
The park wore the appearance of a gory battlefield.
Several heroes lay prostrated in the pig pens, while
those able to maintain a position approaching the per-
pendicular were so besmeared with blood and candle
grease and other things as to be almost unrecognisable.
When the mail left, Invercargill was wearing ice
on its head and taking its solemn oath to put
more water in its prohibition.
“Harrison 0.” : The time is “ripe” for
somebody to protest against the impudent appeal
which is being made by the perpetrators of the
“Charles Dickens Testimonial.” Unlike many
writers, some of them of much greater tonnage,
Dickens received adequate financial recognition
in his lifetime, and when he died he left between
£70,000 and £BO,OOO. In spite of this the hat is
now being taken round on behalf of his descend-
ants, who were given a good start in life and have
not apparently done anything in particular.
Furthermore, I draw attention to the following
passage from Dickens’s will: —
I conjure my friends on no account to make me the
subject of any monument, memorial or testimonial what-
ever. I rest my claims to the remembrance of my
country upon my published works, and to the remem-
brance of my friends upon their experience of me in addi-
tion thereto.
So there is no apparent reason why Australians
should lose their wind in their rush to purchase
Dickens stamps.. In fact, there is no apparent
reason why the pennies which they feel impelled
to part with should not be handed over to the
descendants of some Australian writers who did
not receive financial recognition in their lifetime,
and were unable to leave 80,000 farthings to their
dependents.
WHERE HONOR’S DUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The play was quite a clever one ;
The season had been good. “B’ gee,”
Said Clarence Montrose (Private Bunn,
The walking gent.), “my boy, this run
Is my big triumph ! You just see
’Twill set them hot-foot after me.”
Miss Peggy Smitt, the sweet soubrette,
Exclaimed: “Old chappie, ain’t this gay?
It’s just my surest cinch as yet.
They’ve got my measure now, you bet.
I’ve filled the house up in this way
For seven weeks come Saturday.”
The heavy villain, black and bad,
Led me towards the bar. Purred he:
“You see how I have hit ’em, lad?
Five hundred quid a night, be Gad.
’Twas my big effort in Act 3
That saved this show from bankruptcy.”
The languid leading lady thought
That this success was by a mile
Her finest, and she guessed they ought
To raise her splendid screw a nought: . . .
The hero ’d made the boss’s pile, ....
So had the leading juvenile.
Up in the gallery one night
I met a youth they paid to rouse
The folks, and wedge them good and tight.
“Lor’ bli-me,” said he, “ain’t I right ?
There ain’t room left to swing a mouse.
It’s me’s the bloke what packs this house!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
HIS PRICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The actor thin, with beetling brow,
Leans gently on his beer,
And draws it softly home, and now
With elocution clear
He starts again his piece to speak:
“I have few equals, and I seek
Me six-and-thirty pounds a week.”
His hair is long and ragged, and
His coat is much the same;
He wears a straw without a band,
His boots are thjngs of shame;
For all the bar to hear, says he:
“There are cheap actors, but, siree,
I stand for price and dignitee.
“ ’Tis thirty-six or nix, and that
Is what I tell the crew
Of managers so sleek and fat.
Begad, I get it too!”
I think of quaint penurious tricks
And ask, “He gets the thirty-six?”
“No,” sighs his friend, “he gets the nix!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


SOME DELIGHTFUL SWEATERS
MEN’S COAT SWEATERS—
A CAPITAL wool-knitted garment to wear Gardening,
Golfing, Walking, or even as a Smoking Coat in
Winter. Under the ordinary everyday suit a Coat
Sweater can be worn with every comfort and keep you
warm. It buttons exactly like a coat, is shaped like a coat,
and has two pockets ; it fits snugly, yet allows absolute
freedom, and is no weight. In Navy, Myrtle or Seal Brown.
Sizes:
Prices:
PLAIN
Sizes:
Prices :
Slender Men’s.
12/-
Men’s.
12/9
Out Sizes.
14/=
GREY-
Slender Men’s.
7/9
Men’s.
8/6
Out Sizes.
9/“
To Distant Residents—Prices are exactly as quoted, for WE
PAY CARRIAGE on these goods to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MM.
illlWwx-
m
mi
m
w
! I
m
ti m
m
m
m
fg
The Secret
of
Successful Photography
ENSIGN Roll Films.
BECAUSE : Their Keeping Qualities are Far in Advance of
Any Other Make.
BECAUSE : The Demand is Greater than the Supply, thus
Avoiding the Possibility of Stale Films.
Last, but not Least—They are British Made.
Send for one of our fully-illustrated Catalogues to
Harring'tons Ltd.,
Australia's Leading Photographers,
386 George Street (near g.p.0.), SYDNEY,
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE OPTIMIST.
“Hie! Penny section , please .”
Ching Tin, a Celestial resident of a north-
ern (Australian) port, had not long joined the
local mission before he became a leading beacon,
and the first anniversary of his conversion was
specially marked the “No. 1 Jesus Man ” (as
the Chows term a bishop) presenting him with a
jlirge Bible. John was profuse in his thanks.
He boarded every vessel to spread the virtues of
the Good Book before his poor unlettered country-
men ; he read texts to the quartermaster at the
gangway, or to anybody else he met. Passengers
.gave him tips, and old ladies told him the story
of their lives —or as much of it as would appeal
to his simple nature. But one day a young and
hard-faced Customs officer was transferred to
that port, and the first time he met Ching coming
off the gangway with his large Bible under his
arm he insisted upon studying the Good Book
there and then. And, of course, it was a dummy
containing a few real leaves in the middle and
about 21b. of opium in the cavities on each side.
Just at present there is a vacant seat in the
Mission.
“Neptune”: “Klinker” (B. 27/4/T1)
neglected to mention an important matter in con-
nection with the management of inter-State boats,
namely, the neglect of boat and fire drill.
Writer is at present on a vessel which has not
had her machinery overhauled for four years, and
boat-drill is more honored in the breach than the
observance. I’m told, however, that on some
“ liners ” boat-drill is quite unknown, and that the
boats have' not been off the chocks for months.
In one instance, a fire broke out, and the water-
tight doors were so corroded with rust that it
was impossible to close them. Some responsible
Government department seems to be sadly neg-
lecting its duty.
* * * *
The S’ African Medical Gazette mentions
cartridge-eating as a legacy of the Boer war.
The British Tommies, when they had no matches,
took to pulling the cords from the Lee-Metford
cartridges with their teeth and using them to
light their pipes. They found that the contents
of the cartridges produced “delirious intoxica-
tion,” and now cartridge-eaters are almost as
common in military circles as beer-chewers. It
is appropriate that a war which drove staid,
elderly citizens to publicly stamp upon their hats,
and which gave the word “maffick” to the Eng-
lish language, should also be the means of supply-
ing the Bulldog breed with a brand new means of
getting deliriously tight.
* * * *
“Quiff-Stick” : With the railways under
one control and the army under another, what
would happen if the Real Trouble was around ? A
battery of artillery started to return from the
Easter Camp at Heathcote to Sydney. The dis-
tance is about 24 miles, and the time taken for the
journey was about 10 or 11 hours. The battery
was timed to leave the railway station at 11 a.m.
The men were there with all their guns and
horses promptly. The train wasn’t. It was two
hours late in arriving, and then only half of it
struggled tothe rendezvous, the trucks required for
the guns having been left behind. Possibly they
got mislaid, or the railway officials thought the
men could take the guns in the compartments in
their arms. Anyhow, the horses were trucked
and the procession moved off, leaving sufficient
gunners to entrain the guns when the trucks
arrived. The men and horses reached Sydney
about 5 p.m.—six hours to do 24 miles. By this
time both men and horses were feeling a bit
peckish, naturally ; but as there had been no cal-
culation that an hour’s journey might stretch into
a day, they had to remain hungry. The men, of
course, took turns at going in search of tucker;
but as the horses could not be taken along to the
refreshment room and fed on buns and sand-
wiches, they had to put up with it. The guns
finally arrived at something after 9 p.m.
* * * *
“The Binnacle Boy” : The yellow peril
can do things on board “British” ships which
no white mariners would venture on. We left
Puget Sound for Cape Verde Islands with a crew
of Chinamen. On
the run down to
Magellan Straits
beri-beri broke out,
and the Old Man
ordered salts every
morning for all
hands. On the
third day the deck
crew refused to
“turn-to” as a
protest against the
white man’s medi-
cine. Next day
one man died. We
were making ready
for his burial at
sea, when all hands
came aft, with the
bo’s’n as spokes-
man, and said that
we must not bury
a Chinaman at sea;
if we did, there
would be “plenty
trouble.” It was
a direct challenge,
and the skipper
gave way. We
boxed the body up
and carried it on
deck to our coaling port, Monte Video. There the
ship was delayed six hours while they arranged
matters with Joss. If white men did things like
that, they would have to stand trial for mutiny ;
but the beloved Chink got off with, “ Oh, well, I
suppose it is their religion.”
* * * •
Something is being attempted to check
the sale of naughty books in Australia. Frank
Tudor, Minister for Customs, has come to the
conclusion that, if the Government merely pro-
hibited the landing of books bearing certain
titles, the same old muck would come in under titles
altered to meet the case ; and, anyhow, a black-
list would be a fine advt. for a prohibited book.
He is therefore asking the States to consider the
question of putting a heavy penalty on the sale of
wicked books, though he would bump against a
difficulty of vastly greater size and angularity if
he sat down and proceeded to say what books are
wicked and what are not. When the inventors
have produced the completely satisfactory wet-
wool tester, they might; be invited to set their
brains to the job of modifying it to meet the
requirements of this case. A sinometer is badly
needed, anyhow.
CONSIDERATION.
THE MAN : “ Your extravagance has cost me my wife’s fortune. ”
THE WOMAN : “In that case I shall make the unfortunate lady all the recompense possible.
I shall return her erring husband."
From the Oldest Inhabitant’s under-
study :
At the south end of Swanston-street there is a hunch
of four pubs to wet the giraffe throat of Melbourne:
Young and Jackson’s, E. Champion’s Queen’s Arms, C.
Champion’s Town Hail, and Reynolds’s Cathedral. The
two Champions closed their doors a few days ago on
account of the death of their estimable mother, a vener-
able lady. All four pubs are ancients. E. G. Fitzgibbon
owned the Cathedral, and much indignation was
bestowed on such an eminent churchman for not calling
it the Pig and Whistle or something else respectful.
The excellent mother Champion was widow of Ben
Champion, who for so long carried on the Queen’s Arms.
Tom Monahan was there before him, and someone else
before old Tom, who worked up from being groom. The
first Melbourne Wesleyan Chapel, a tiny brick place, was
on that site. It was "used for a Sunday-school after the
white-plaster Wesleyan Chapel arose on the corner of
Collins and Queen streets—a block afterwards sold for
£40,000 to the Bank of Australasia. Wesley Church, an
awful blue elephant, came out of that. Meanwhile,
Monahan, as a good R. 0., utilised the Sunday-school
for his scullery, even as the R.C.’s bought the
Presbyterian Chalmers Church, and actually wrought
the very stones into a convent. The scullery Sunday-
school was only demolished when E. Champion made his
recent alterations, transforming the humble two-storey
Queen’s into a fine five-storeys. Through marriages of
heirs and heiresses, old Monahan’s money mingled with
that of Wallace, the mining man and boniface, who
owned so many pubs in the Ovens and Buckland district.
The lawyers afterwards sliced the coin over the divorce
case of Wallace v. Wallace. The original Wallace insisted
on wearing a jumper about Collins-street till he became
an M.L.C., when he condescended to a coat. Ben Cham-
pion gave his sons first-rate education at Trinity College
and the University, and never expected them to turn to
the beer-pump. But they knew where the money is.
* * * *
The Bulletin received the following in
its mail the other day:—
Dear Sir I am the undertaker’s man, and this opens
up a wide field on scientific knowledge in The Bulletin
for inquiry about which there has always been a dispute
as to whether long-legged or long-bodied people live the
longest not in length I mean in years but I have much
pleasure in forwarding herewith the answer of the
inquiry for I asked the boss and he said he packed at
least 10 long-bodied people for one long-legged man or
woman the latter is very fatal to a long life if she has
a long body and the only one the boss knows with
long body who lived a very long time was Queen
Victoria whose legs were only about two feet
long but I dont know its no interest to me now as you
asked me I’ll respectfully reply that long bodies have too
much works also large quantities of meat, etcetra, sauce
and cups full of tea go down that won’t go down short
bodies that has no room to spare and as any scientific
undertaker knows its a long lane that has no turning
but you don’t want too many turnings hence it makes if
worth your while to have long legs and short body of
course it means less graft for the boss but its no interest
to me we’re trying to get a wages board and then he can
go to as far as that’s concerned and I’ll conclude hop-
ing you have long legs.
“Red Tape, junr.” : While Minister
Trefle was advising the students at the Hawkes-
bury (N.S.W.) Agricultural College to stick to
the science of the soil, and assuring them there
was big money in the game, the Public Service
Board was advertising for an “ experimentalist ”
for Hawkesbury who combined sound scientific
training with the ability to plan and carry out his
own agricultural experiments. For this he was
offered £l4—my mistake, £4 a week! I’ve
decided to hang on as lift-boy in the Department.
Our head messenger gets £4 a week ; and a head
messenger doesn’t have to work.
THE HOPE OF
THE FAMILY.
Penny postage rates throughout Australia, and _to
Great Britain, the dominions, and the dependencies,
will take effect from to-morrow. —News Item
(30/4/’ll).
LLITTLE ISAAC : “ Fader , keep it dit to-morrow
and it'll go for a penny."
The S.A. Register, the most lady-like
daily paper in all Australia, has for Some time
been endeavoring' to coin a pretty name for the
man who blacklegs on his mates. “Loyalist”
was the term used for a long time, but now it is
“upper-class workers.” Later it may develop
into “ gentlemen workers,” and later still into
“gentlemen helps.” But when the strike is
over they will be shooed off the premises just the
same.
THE JOY RIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whizzin’ down a hill-side,
Fizzin’ up a lane.
Honkin’ round a corner,
Cut and come again ;
Open up the throttle,
Then “ advance the spark”—*
Out upon a joy-ride
For a bally lark !
Shavin’ of the herbage
On a cuttin’ side ;
Smuggled up beside me
Temporary bride.
Her enjoy it ? Rather !
Thinks that I’m the boss
(Boss he doesn’t “ hook ” ’em ;
That’s the old chap’s loss).
Let her have the “ three gear,”
Now she’s got the “ high,”
Flyin’ the macadam,
Tunnelin’ the sky !
Car? She is a bonzer !
Girl? She is a duck !
Sizzlin’ on the bridges,
Dashin’ through the muck ;
Swishin’ and a-swayin’
Through the flyin’ mud,
Girl she feels the corp’scles
Tinglin’in her blood.
Ilissin’ on a down-grade,
Hear her pantin’ faster ;
Girl in admiration
Feels I am her master.
Just a little joy-ride,
Merry half a day,
Rtpid girl-and-boy ride—
Clear the bally way !
Reach our destination ;
Little “camp” and then—
Not half so interestin’
Cornin’ back agen.
N.S.W.
NARRANGHI BOGRI.


Ei
dsfg
JT WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure? ~
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
Sunlight Soap has once
been tried.
YIICIC
nce^
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,’'
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
Hunyadi
Janos
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
Bottled at the Spring's
Used the World over
| Drink on arising a wineglassful fori
INDIGESTION and 1
BILIOUSNESS
If yon want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
sd
Something Good in ONDERWEAR.
THESE undergarments of ours are in pure wool, natural
in color and undyed—and are woven specially for us
by one of the most exclusive British Mills.
The shirts have the sleeve ends and bottom edges ribbed
to prevent them unravelling—and there are no seams to
irritate the skin.
The wool in them is thoroughly pre-shrunken, and
though we have a standing guarantee to replace any garment
that shrinks, we never have a single complaint on this score.
Neither in Price or Weight are these garments heavy.
7/6 each.
Postage 3d. extra
each garment.
Please give Chest and Waist Measures when ordering.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Victorian Board of Health recently
adopted a regulation designed to change the
methods of the insanitarians who supply refresh-
ments in glasses “washed ” in a bath of contami-
nated fluid and wiped with a contaminated rag.
The regulation provides that all glasses, cups or-
other vessels, spoons, forks, etc., used in any
restaurant, bar, refreshment stall, booth, dining
room, etc., “shall be thoroughly cleansed by
means of clean running water, where such
is available or can be made available.” The
Board can’t post an inspector in every
hashhouse, pub, stall, booth, etc., so there
will probably still be some filthy beer-vessels set
up on the bar. But it can, anyhow, easily see
that the “ clean water under pressure” is made
available ; and when it is thus available the run-
ning fluid has a very good chance of being used.
“Muzzle Velocity” on something that
wants looking into :
There is an unpleasant odor arising from the Victorian
Defence Force. One Vassey, of the Submarine Miners,
claims to have been unjustly discharged from the service,
and is prepared to support his serious allegations with
many Oaths and affidavits. He clamors for a court-martial,
and that, anyhow, ought to be his right. Another branch
of the service is suffering from a different disease. In one
of the permanent regiments (and there are not more than
a dozen) there are four or five soldiers employed ex-
clusively as general servants whose duties range from
laundry worlc to “ boots.” One of these cheap lackeys
was recently enlisted (for household duties exclusively)
at the age of 58 or thereabouts. These men are as
innocent of the work for which the public pays as the
ordinary Ah Pong is of the Referendum ; and they are,
moreover, in a position to defy any order or legal demand
made upon them by the non-coms.
* * * *
“ Vagabond ” : “Table Salt” (B. 4/4/11)
climbed up to the top deck of an ocean liner the
other day, and looking down from that great
height, left off wondering why ships occasionally
go missing. To cure bis misgivings let him now
investigate the down-stairs end of one of the
many-decked liners. As he keeps descending one
long spider-thread ladder after another, I think
liis spirits will keep rising ; and by the time he
gets right down into the bottom cellar, he will be
more inclined to worry as to whether there will
be water enough to keep his boat’s floor off the
bottom. And if he stands by and watches a
whole solid cargo being loaded into the ship, and
remembers that all that astounding bulk and
weight is going below the water line, he will begin
to be more afraid of the keel sagging in the middle
than of the contraption blowing over. Then let
him compare the biggest abortion of a piled-up
decker with the spead of canvas on any old wind-
jammer, and then note also their respective grips
on the water. Of course I know that the sailer
doesn’t have all her sails up in the big blows :
but even in the worst she carries some to “steady ”
her. So, one way and another, I think I’ll con-
tinue to sleep soundly in the top attic of the
tallest skycraper that swims, as long as I believe
she is sound in wind and limb.
WHO SPOKE?
“ What exhibitions some People do make of
themselves! ”
A DASH OF COLD WATER.
WOULD-BE-PUPIL : “ Oh, Professor, do you think I could learn to play the ’ cello?"
PROPESSOR KLEINESTUCKE : “ Not undil der fashions shange. Mit cat gosdume it would
not be hermit ted you to seize ze 'cello broperly. Zo! ” (Illustrales.)
The hobble skirt having been refused
admittance to English Court functions, the
question now is : Tube or not tube ?
It is 50 years ago this month since the
Gabriel’s Gully (Otago, M.L.) goldfield was dis-
covered, and the jubilee is to be celebrated at
Lawrence (formerly
“The Junction”) on
May 22, when the
old-tiniers will have a
night out and the once
famous fast packets
Young America, Red
Jacket, Blue Jacket
and others will sail
out of the past and
unload long proces-
sions of ghosts down
the gangway of
memory. The occasion
also provides a great
opportunity for the
M.L. Cold - Squash
party to celebrate the
fact that at a meeting
of the diggers held
on the field in July,
1861, Gabriel’s Gully
was declared the first
“dry”' district in M.L.
This was decided upon by a
committee appointed by
those on the field to draw
up rules and regulations for
the proper conduct of the
diggings, and was confirmed
at a general meeting, How-
ever, as it is to-day in M.L.’s
“dry” districts, so it was
then—high jinks and grog !
The favorite depot was the
Sportsman’s Arms in Wether-
stone’s, a neighboring gully,
where about a dozen Fairies set
the pace and the joyous cork popped
till dawn. At night the big dining-
room was turned into a dancing hall,
where the girls got a percentage on the
drinks they sold, and the rouseabout who carted
out the,dead marines died of a broken back six
times a week. But that was 50 years ago, and
Gabriel’s Gully isn’t a bit like it to-day.
“Tom Ess” : One of Sydney’s noblest
buildings is that of the Lands Department, a
magnificent specimen of the Italian Renaissance,
which has the rare privilege of standing clear on
its own block, with ample surrounding space to
show its fine proportions and artistic design. It
has four entrances, one for each frontage ; yet, to
gratify the whim of a Minister, a great hole has
been punched through the solid sandstone, to;
make still another entrance. It looks like a
hideous scab on a beautiful face. The permanent
disfigurement is to give more ready access to and
from a staircase which leads to the Minister’s
holy shrine, thus saving a walk of fully 60ft. to
80ft. To preserve a grand design, as an alterna-
tive, the inletting of a small iron gate in the
larger one close by was suggested. But a little
brief authority would have none of that. Some
day a little brief authority will be posting bills on
the golden gates of Paradise if Peter’s kicking-
foot isn’t in good working order.
The Wow,serous Edgar and Judkins, of
Melbourne, have been snarling at modern labor
unionism and trying to promote a new brotherly-
love association ; and at just about that point
Brother Thomas, P.M.G., who is also a Methodist,
dropped into the commotion. Edgar, said he,
belonged to the most exclusive trade union he
knew of. “If there is such a rush of candidates
that there would be difficulty in finding circuits
for them, the books are closed, because it is recog-
nised that for every candidate accepted into the
union (the ministry), a circuit must be found.”
Yet Thomas can’t remember that either Edgar or
Judkins has ever tried to alter that rule of
Methodism, and set up another prescribing free
and unlimited competition—with a dependence on
brotherly love and the other pinchgut virtues.
Willie Judkins, Wowser-in-chief, parson
A. R. Edgar, and a number of Right Thinking
persons have assembled in Melbourne, and started
the new industrial union of Dearly Beloved
Brethren. Clause Bof their fraternal and affec-
tionate declaration announces that the D. 8.8.
Union asserts “ the right of employers to employ
whom they choose (within just lines of wages and
conditions), and of employees to work for whom
they choose.” The student of industrial econom-
ics will appreciate those beautiful words, more
especially “ the right of employees to work for
whom they choose.” This paper has pleasing
visions of Bill Smith, clicker, and Andy Brown,
moulder, marching into the respective establish-
ments of Sprig, Insole, Eyelet and Co., and Bolt
Brothers, throwing off their coats and getting
down to work (“within just lines of wages and
conditions”) without the distressing preliminary
of cadging a billet. It will be seen that the new
(or is it pew?) unionism disposes of the problem
of unemployment in three lines: “Employers
may employ whom they choose, and employees
may work for whom they choose.” In the event
of a hitch, no doubt everybody is to pray, and
W. Judkins will take up a cold collection.
Naturally it will end in Wowsing Willie being
provided with a new flock —of geese.
Now that the last bill has been settled,
Victoria’s Railway Commissioners putH.be cost of
last year’s Richmond collision at .£127,229 over
and above the cost of repairing rolling stock,
permanent way, etc. There were 10 deaths and
480 persons were injured, as against 44 deaths and
417 injured at Sunshine. The cost of the Sunshine
horror was .£125,633. Sunshine’s “death”
account came to £27,837, an average of £633 per
corpse; Richmond’s 10 ran to an average of
£l2Ol. A greater discrepancy is shown in the
respective bills for legal and medical fees, etc. —
£14,075 at Sunshine, as against £19,414 at Rich-
mond .' There were harvesters at Richmond as
well as at the other place.
Melbourne University grads, have decided
to have a residential club of their own. There are
2000 of them, and a nucleus of 500 members is
required. To inaugurate the scheme nearly 200
grads, (a fourth of them women) dined in the
Grand Hotel a night or two ago and reminisced
till a late hour. The oldest grad, present was A.
W. Creswell, an Anglican parson, who took his
Arts degree in 1862. John Madden, the Chancellor,
who was not at the dinner, was the first to receive
the LL.D. degree. That was in 1869. The com-
mittee appointed to draft a scheme for the club
includes the first woman graduate—Miss Cherry.
The committee has its eye on the new arcade
buildings in Coll ins-street, between Elizabeth
and Swanston streets, and thinks it, might do
worse than hang up its hat in specially-designed
quarters there.
“The Religious Editor”: Sydney suf-
fered its annual hold-up in the name of Charity
on Saturday, when about £BOOO was raked in for
the debt-haunted institutions which heal the
sick. The clash of the collection box and the
smile of the more or less tactful female who
pushed it round aroused no thrills in this writer’s
chest. The whole business represents a hideous
waste of gold-stopped smiles and the turning of a
large and serious problem into a one-day bush-
ranging competition for some 3000 women, who
enjoy the novelty and excitement of waylaying
strange men, and penetrating into offices and
other places in search of the small contribution
which rattles like the teeth of the Lost when the.
first breath of winter steals through the engine,
rooms of Sheol. There is doubtless a lot of gen-
uine charity mixed up with the fuss, confusion
and social advertisement of the Hospital Saturday
raid ; but it is a degrading business in a civilised
State. Probably the temporary financial scoring-
board on the Bank of N.S.W. in George-street is
the chief reason why Sydney endures the raid.
So long as he has a scoring-board of some sort to
look at, the Australian will stand whatever game
it represents. And the board on the Bank of
N.S.W. represents the great gold-fanged game of
Hospital Saturday.
HE WAS DOING THE THING
PROPERLY.
“ Room for you in the stalls , young man! ”
“ Nae fear. Alim in frae the country for a.
holiday.”
The other day, in a South Aus. “chapel”
—Methodist churches are still mostly “chapels”
in S. Aus.—the preacher announced the collection
in these words: “ Let us now praise God from the
bottom of our breeches’ pockets.” It may be all
right when Harems become universal ; but, mean-
time, the mostly-skirted congregation filled the
tabernacle with its deepest blush.
SAD!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know a river where a willow dips
Its long green fingers in the waters brown,
So still and peaceful, though the near-by town
Is loud with shouting from her myriad lips.
I know a maiden, bright-eyed and so fair,
Who came one night and shared the skiff with me ;
We steered up-stream, and underneath the tree
We found Romance, and dallied with her there.
But, ah, it’s desolate and lonesome now !
Bright eyes can no more seek that spot with me.
She is not dead, or far across the sea.
Oh, no. We’ve merely had the usual row.
s. AUS.
SERNEE.


The astonishing amount of £20.000
paid for professional services in connec
tlon with the Richmond railway disas-
ter has an amusing side
Willie \b V/°rK
on 'fyo. ( is
m&n 'toge^c*
love v Cof" 1^0 !?
lotcrevT"'
- B«r you wre
car-off botf: leos, yo« <
T) oc 1oV A\y <W fellow, Wh
Tfye. Coww'fi'y
city architect stated yesterday that
he is now in a position to proceed with
buildings to the value of £lOO,OOO, the
construction of which would have been
abandoned had the Labor party’s pro-
' posals been sanctioned— Argus.
Wowser * I
abon ifec My very forcibly 'the
Woly i«ju»etr« n 'love,Honor,&-otey
"Well Dor<e,"A u S
Foreion Monopoly-'' ye,, well done
W not-y«r ».$ k™«" *v I would liKe fT
‘ Deakin has received a wireless
telegram from Senators Gould, Var-
don, and Sayers, and Quick, Liv-
tngston, Johnson and Thompson,
M.H.R.’s, expressing their dtlight at
the result of the referendum, and
saying, •Well done, Australia I'*1 '*
Tie 80, --SM. C ;*”V£
me®?’ lmsp .
Knibb<> rz^y\nd<j
CJ«bo We
opWnc« IS
* j^'o^ine.
Statistics prove that sanity can be
measured by the feet, both in men
and women, but the rules for the
two sexes are the inverse of one
another. Sane men have large feet,
and sane women small feet. Con-
versely, beware of the small-footed
male and the large-footed female
( '
///////////
It wanted a drought to bring people
to see that material things did not
satisfy, and that we wanted the hand
of God laid on this community. It
would perhaps be one of the best things
for the land when the Japanese landed
here.
Vo ay
l wouiant be, 46“ -jW J
'K/iCe sumr».*
R«V $W* to Ass U<^
R?v sen't~ fredt White Tyrone)
" See V r c, yoa *n aJlbgctfU*
too ftood *o wrefeVre4 .
WKfcf yo» vr&.nt' is +o Devil rnore }>/^y.
(onibble. -
evidence -fbr .
fll on Suspicion
FROM A WINDOW IN COLLINS STREET.


GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Hearings.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [9
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
CLEMENT-BAYARD
MOTOR CARS.
1911 MODELS.
An Ideal Car for Family and Tourins- Purposes
is the CLEMENT-BAYARD 12=18 h.p.
4=Cylinder Car.
It takes hills with a load better than most
20-25 h.p. Cars.
B*l4 h.p. 4=CyHnder Car, d£275.
Its resiliency and sweet running- are remarkable.
It gets if anything—quieter the longer itisrun.
It js lighter (though stronger) than most cars.
It,is made of the most durable of metals.
It is handsome to the eye, and carries five.
These Oars are now ready for delivery
It. is the simplest of all cars to drive.
There is nothing- to do but steer.
Any sensible man can maintain it.
The oiling, the timing:, etc., are all automatic.
Clement-Bayards are famed the world over for Reliability.
Each Oar is gruiranteed for two vears.
h „ . n , °TH E , R MODELS NO 'V READY FOR THE ROAD. '
10-15 h.p. 4-Cylinder, with double phaeton body £37*
15 ' 20 **-Pr (6) Cylinder, with double phaeton side entrance body, exquisitely finished £550
office 8 : FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Th^ o is*"* r * 23 Hunter Street.
Garage. STANTON COOK, LTD., Motor and Electrical Engineers,
6,8 and 23 Underwood Street, off 37 Pitt Street.
Victorian Agents: JAMES A. MUNRO & CO., Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Pick”: “Wang” (B. 64/’ll) asks for
information about the highest-priced dingo corpse.
This may be it. In the late ’7o’s the squatters and
smaller sheep men of Southern Monaro (N.S.W.) of-
fered sums which aggregated £52 for the destruction
of a half-breed outlaw, to which they attributed all
the qualifications of Beelzebub for cunning, and the
villainy of 70 kinds of devils for the ruthlessness
with which it depleted their flocks. The inducement
caused a rush to the district, just as if a new gold-
field had broken out. The hunter who earned the
reward and the renown claimed to have shot the
dingo, after a fierce encounter, in a cave. Certainly,
it was said afterwards that the nark had found the
dog poisoned, the manager of Bibbenluke station
having inveigled him with a bait dipped in boiling
fat—a wrinkle that has often worked the oracle with
dogs or foxes shy of handled meat.
* * * *
“Gip”: That was an interesting par. of
“W.C.M.’s” (B. 6/4/’ll) about the black ‘magpie
and its co-operative building society. I’ve always
been puzzled about the plaintive black mags’ nesting
habits. I knew they clubbed together and built the
clay humpy, for I have seen and heard them at it;
but is the co-op. arrangement carried still further?
Does more than one hen bird deposit her eggs in the
big, trowelled pudding basin, and does the com-
munity continue its attentions to the young when
hatched? Have seen seven or eight round one nest,
looking mighty busy at a time of year when the
cradle was pretty certain to have young in it, but
have never been able to prove the dreadful charge of
socialism.
THE LIMIT OF USELESSNESS.
W. SIKES ( angrily, to his assistant, who has been vainly trying to break open the safe):
“ Ere! Lemme at it! Gorstrooth! you couldn’t open a bazaar!”
“Condamine” : Hath music charm to soothe
the savage frog ? I say yes, provided an accordeon
is admitted as a musical instrument. For some time
past I noticed that each evening when I played the
wind-jammer under a tree in front of my tent, a
green tree-frog perched himself on a limb overhead ;
and formed an attentive audience. To see if his
presence there was merely casual, or if he really ap-
preciated my rendering of Gounod and Mozart, I
shifted my quarters to the other side of the tree.
Froggie immediately climbed across until he once
more occupied a position right in the front row of
the dress-circle. There he sat until my mate seized
a hat to take up a collection, when he quietly, but
resolutely, hopped away.
“Vagabond”: When I see the struggles
of some selectors, especially in rough bush country,
I wonder that men can be found game enough to
tackle the job. I ran across one lot a month or
two back. The house (?) was built with scraps of
timber and tin and canvas. It stood, when it wasn’t
sitting or lying down, in a patch of a clearing so
small you could nearly stand in the middle and
touch the trees all round. There was a little cleared
strip along the banks of the creek, and a woman
was digging this over. She told me Jack was up
“the crick,” that this was their garden, and they’d
have some corn in this year. There were about a
dozen dejected and dilapidated fowls mournfully hud-
dled in the lee of the hut, and four kiddies, the eldest
about six, watched me with solemn eyes, and their
fingers in their mouths. I found the husband over-
looking his selection —a little valley with sides so
steep that it seemed to me he could never graze any-
thing but flies there. The hills all round were cov-
ered with the most fearsome tangle of brush and big
timber, and along the bottom, where two to three
acres of bush had been cut down, appeared the most
unholy and hopeless wrecked-up jumble of brush and
branches and rocks and roots and tree trunks that
ever a selector saw in a nightmare. Jack was down
there trying to get fires going. He looked like a
deserted ant in a railway accident, but after a short
conversation he told me to come along again in half
a dozen years, and I’d see a bunch of cows feeding
along there, and the cream cans waiting up af the
gate for a cart. I looked round at that landscape
and I took off my hat to him.
* * * *
Refreshing item from Melbourne Argus
(25/4/’ll): “Daylesford, Monday. This morning, at
8 o’clock, the old Racecourse Hotel, at Hepburn,
containing 16 rooms, was destroyed by fire. Nothing
was saved except a barrel of beer.’* What story of
heroism lies hidden in that last sentence?
* * * #
“Curfew” : We were talking Cow where
the scenery is greatly obstructed by masticating bo-
vines—the Cow Country, where the unit of excellence
is cow, but the national drink is not milk. ’Twas at
tjie Southern Hotel. Said Danny Walters, sitting
reflectively on an empty barrel: “I hear Murfey ain’t
married th’ Thomson girl yit?” It was Tim Smith
who cleared up the matter: “No. Ain’t goin’ ter.
llin to the Show and bought a milkin’ machine in-
stead !”
* * » *
“Tas.” : The latest medical book, just to
hand, contains a list of all the ills that flesh is heir
to, right up-to-date. Moving-picture eye is among
them. Aviator’s head has made its appearance, but
good old-fashioned housemaid’s-knee has not changed
its name yet, I see. There are several species of
hearts, e.g., cigarette-smoker’s, chauffeur’s, mono-
railer’s. There are prize-fighter’s jaw and motorist’s
cramp. Rock-chopper’s phthisis is included; also
curvature of the spine (special brand —motor-
cyclist’s!). “State Ferry Fright” is to be inserted in
the next edition, under an unpronounceable name, and
“Banknotitis” is to be described as “an uncommon
illness to which certain fat people are subject.”
“Wowser’s nose” wilbappear under the: chapter headed
“Throat and Eye Troubles.” The cure is said to
be certain. It is to spend a week behind a bar, and
two weeks surfing at Manly.
“Vagabond”: The only thing that sur-
prises me in “Jimmie Pannikin’s” remarks about
Alliterative Adjectived .Manning (B. 6/4/’U) is that
any of the school kids knew any authors. Some
time ago some of us were knocking around the
country between Port Stephens and Manning River.
One man wanted something to read, and decided that
at the next store or township we struck he’d get a
sixpenny Nat Gould, or something equally soul-lift-
ing. First place he asked if they’d any sixpenny
novels. “No.” “Any Penny Bloods?” “No.” Any
weeklies? Any magazines or patent medicine book-
lets or store council reports, or morning or evening
papers, or any dash thing with print on it? Not a
scrap.
IN SUNDAY SCHOOL.
TEACHER : “Now, Willie, tell me what you know of the Sea of Galilee."
WitHE Ah Wong promising Chinese convert): “ Gallely—allee same pay bob. go up top."
“Isaac Gumboil, J.P.”: Lemme advise
“Dunho” to be careful in his statements about places
and things (B. 20/4/’ll). I, too, am acquainted
v. ith that part of the Yarra below Abbotsford,
where “Teclining here in the cool on a still, sum-
mer’s day, through the heavy festoons of willow
foliage , that listlessly caress the limpid river’s sur-
face, he has seen into the shaded interior of the old
open-built distillery on the far banli.” Last time I
was there the river’s surface didn’t “limp.” It was
far too thick and bloated for that. It just crawled
cozily around the bend, like a mixture of liquid
pipeclay, treacle and bone-dust. The surface was
blobbed and aappled With various-sized carbuncles
of froth, matted wool and fat and scum from the
wool-scouring work 3 higher up. It also bore the over-
shoot from the Salv’army’s rubbish-tip still further
up-stream, mingling with the offerings from the
large and aggressive Nicholson-street drain—which
milks most' of Collingwood between Gipps-street and
Jdhnsoii-street. (Should, my topograpy be somewhat
amiss, I trust to some local alderman cr brother
J.P. to correct me.) That about the festoons of
willow foliage ain’t bad, either. When I was there,
also gazing, I saw a brewery-—with nice, newly-
built additions of red brick —turning out beer and
bringing its shareholders good dividends. Barring
the “shimmerin’ blue,” I like that bit what goes
—“Across the smooth expanse of shimmering blue
there drifted a breath of Bacchanalian fragrance,”
etc. But if he means the hum that hovers over
that slime and filth, which at low-tide shrieks its
shameless secrets into the soft rose-tinted twilight—
well, it don’t seem right to me. And then — “More
than one sad-souled childish dreamer of the slums
has here found a dreamland of rest and romance.”
No doubt they did. I went down one hot evening,
the night before a council election, in search of my
secretary, who used to spend most nights there,
; eeling and smoking. There must have been several
thousand slum kids there, bathing, splashing, yelling
and squabbling, whilst their dads lounged along
: the banks, smoking, arguing, cursing, dozing and
catching eels. The uproar was disgustin’, and when
. I endeavored to stem the flow of hobscenity, a eel
wrapped itself around my head and face, which I
took as an intimation that my hinterference was con-
sidered dee treppe. Still, I must admit there’s
much of interest in that locality. A now world-
famous singer once fished and swam there in Edenic
attire, with the small boys of her day. And a
famous Australian-American artist, in earlier and
less lucrative' days, conducted a humble art class in
the local public hall.
* * • *
The Czar of Russia writes more in anger
than in sorrow:—
l • should the ear ly youth of “Jimmie Panni-
kin and ‘A. William-Cann” be inflicted on me week
by-week? I am not in the least interested in the
anecdotes of “J.P.” and Mr. Cann. You see, I
know them both. “J.P.” is a dapper youth who
asserts he is the Tenth Edition of the Encyclopaedia
Bntannica, and “A.W-.C.”—a burly brute with a
beard that badly wants felling and burning—has the
delusion that he’s “Who’s Who in Australia.” As I
am the Czar of Russia, I don’t allow them to remin-
isce in my presence; but I find them both in
? ca l',y , CVCI T, lssue of The Bulletin. They are both
in Gladesville Asylum—at least, they were there yes-
terday. I know, because I’m there, too.
’‘Curfew”: “The Ancient’s” fish yarn (B.
20/4/’ll) reminded me of a couple of experiences. I
was fishing in the Yarra, when I hooked something
which broke my line, and got away with a hook. I said
“Damn,” and went home for dinner. In the after-
noon 1 put a new hook on my line, and went back
to the same pitch. Threw my line in, and almost
at once landed a fish. The hook I had lost was in
its mouth, and—-the hook on my line was hitched in
it! I had caught my own hook, with the fish at-
tached. I am not so fortunate as “The Ancient” in
regard to witnesses. But you can take my word for
that, anyway. The other experience was on the
Goillburn, near Shcpparton. A dissipated-looking
person was sitting on a log, fishing. “Good day,” I
said. He didn’t contradict me. “Got any fish?”
He rolled his pale blue eyes round in my direction,
and said, “Don’t be sarcaustic!”
OUT OF THE MOUTHS.
FATHER (a “ Liberal"): “Willie, why don't
you go aud get ready for school when I
tell you?”
WILLIE: “ Father, the time is not yet ripe.”
“Gil Gunnia”: I can beat “Longy’s” go-
hanna (B. 16/3/’ll) by 2J inches. At .Jannison’s
Ten Mile Rest, outside Dalby (Q.), there is a reptile
(or the skin of it) 7ft. sin. long.
“T..T.M.”: Could any gentleman or cove
tell me of an ointment, spray, salve, or other de-
coction that will vote “No, No” to blowflies on a
horse’s injured leg ? No one need apply with kero-
sene, phenyl, tar, so-and-so solution, or the other
chap’s embrocation; these have been weighed in the
balance and found unsatisfactory. Any other “sure
thing” can be passed up, provided, of bourse, it will
not prove disastrous to the horse.
HANS AND GRETCHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a colossal surplus of young German girls;
the high price of meat is making it increasingly diffi-
cult for respectable girls to get married. —News item.
Mein lieber madchen, cease to woo,
Und hope no more for Hans:
Mein chest he holds not room for two —
Thee und der sossage-mans.
I lofe thee? Canst thou ask it? —Jal
I lofe from head to heels ;
I lofe thee night and day: but ah i
Much more I lofe mein meals!
Der lofe-in-cottage dream vos sveet —
Ach, Himmel! sveet if true!
But canst thou keep me in der Meat
I vost aggustomed to ?
Nein, Gretchen, nein! Thou canst not such!
Farewell! Der dream vos o’er.
I could not lofe thee, dear, so much,
Lofed I not Sossage more!
VICTORIA.
HANS BLAUBOTTEL.


Hotel
A u strati a
TARIFF:
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL ; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wire/ess.
J. URE SMITH, Manager, .
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Weare Born to
offer Benefits
The insurance office
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 Ceorge St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly against
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
WRITE AT ONCE.
11. H. Stockfeld \ Joint
H. S. Doherty / Managers,
PLASM COCOA
“ A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa."
—British Medical Journal .
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
The Army of
Constipation
Is Growing Smaller Every Day*
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS are
responsible —they not
only give relief—
they permanently
cure Constipation
Millions use
them for
gd
Carters
ITTLE *
IVER
PILLS
Biliousness, _
Indigestion, Sick Headache, Sallow Skin.
SMALL PILL, SMALL DOSE, SMALL PBICE.
GENUINE must bear Signature
Liarbird”: There are Australian families
whose chief supports do without beer during the
week in order to buy pork sausages for Sunday morn-
ing’s breakfast. Little do they know! If they
did, they would spend the money on beer; it might
be even better to put it by for missions to Chinese
or pork-butchers. In certain vessels of the pork-
sausage trade large quantities of bullock’s livers
may be seen floating at any hour of the day or night.
These livers float thus for 48 hours or so, until they
are bloodless and pallid; and the pale, pork-colored
result is then put through the sausage-foundry, to
be gloriously resurrected at tenpence per pound in
the form of pure pork sausages of the most unim-
peachable hue and porkiness. Dishonesty is evi-
dently the best pork policy, for this liver-soaking
business is an ancient trick of the sausage trade.
* * * *
“Silas” : How many men who use a ham-
mer on an anvil know the danger in striking a
grease patch ? A domestic tragedy I witnessed in a
mine smithy near Gordon (Vic.) some years ago
will explain. The blacksmith had caught a flea,
and in a sportive mood he fixed it to his anvil with
a drop of fat from a candle. Then he swung his
sled on to the fettered insect, with the result that
the steel face flew from the hammer, shot across
the shop, and struck a small boy in the pit of the
stomach. The flea escaped, but the small boy died
two days later.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : Remember that Yankee slow-
train story? To the passengers who complained, the
guard said, “Well, git out and walk.” Whereupon
the passenger: “I would, but they don’t expect
me home till the train arrives.” But that train was
greased electricity compared with the one that mean-
ders from Maryborough to Gayndah (Q.). I’ve just
arrived by it, and as soon as I can find out what day
of the month it is, I’m going to enter the steam snail
for the Australian Chess championship.
* * * *
“Trotter”: Walter Goodfellow, chief of
the English Ornithological Society’s expedition to
Dutch New Guinea, contributes an interesting article
to the London Times concerning his outing. He
describes a hitherto wholly unknown region, called
Mimika, the inhabitants of which are absolutely in
the Stone Age, and use just the same kind of imple-
ments a 3 are unearthed in England. None of the
people cap count higher than three, and to give any
idea of number the members of the expedition had to
point to their fingers and toes. The people were tall,
light in color, and amiable. They would give any-
thing for an iron axe. Women are regarded abso-
lutely as inferior animals, ar.d do all the work.
Goodfellow stopped a native who was drowning a
woman with no more compunction than a dog. This
is far inland. On the coast there are similar people
much depraved by making grog out of a kind of
palm. None of the Mimika natives wear any clothes,
except mourning widows, who are covered with gar-
ments of leaves.
THE EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT.
SQUATTER : “ What, you want to marry my
daughter! Why, she's a head taller than
you! ”
B ERTIE: “ Yes ; but I don’t expect to be so short
after Pm married."
AFFINITY.
L ADY: “Why won't you chop the wood?"
THE DEFENDANT: “ Madam , it calls up such unpleasant recollections of my unpaid board."
“Billy B.”: Barnum Powell, who threat-
ens to inflict himself on this long-suffering country,
owes me a bob, which reminds me that Acting Prime-
Minister Hughes owes
me a “brown.” I was
on the North Sydney
ferry months ago,
when I observed him
studying the sky with
rapt attention. “How
y’ getting on?” I in-
t e rjected. “ ’Tisn’t
that,” he said; “my
trouble is how am I
getting off? I’ve left
my money at home.
Lend’s a penny.” I
did, and he’s still got
it. But about Bar-
num. On the day
news of the relief of
Mafeking came
through, I was in
Wellington (M. L.),
and was invited into
a pub by a lunatic,
who had been kicking
his hat up the street.
The bar was crowded,
and the maniac sug-
gested that in the
commercial room we
could be served by the
waiter. When we , got
there we found it
crowded also ; and two
of the partv were
collecting shillings and
writing something on
a slip of paper. I
thought it was a
“shilling in,” so I
passed one, over to the
collector and murmur-
ed “Whisky, and soda”
to his clerk. Pre-
sently a fat person
with a terra-cotta face
rose and announced
that £2 19s. was the
total, and that it
would be handed to the
Mayor as the nucleus
of a fund to suitably recognise the great (cheers)
and noble (cheers) and unparalleled (cheers)
heroism of Barnum (tremendous applause).
Whereupon I rose and said: “Sir, do I understand
that this is not a bob in and the winner shout?”
“Sir,” he replied haughtily, “I hope this is a sword
of honor for a hero!” “Then, sir,” I retorted, it
is a swindle,” and tore my way through the hoots
to where the girls were serving cordials, 19 at a
time. I weep for that shilling still.
* * * *
“Jeroi” : If ironbark in the Northern Ter-
ritory is free, from white ants it must be different
from the Richmond River (N.S.W.) species. Four
years ago a fence of the wood was built along the
river, and to-day the pest is in every post. Some
of the posts have been eaten right away. Own ex-
perience is that bloodwood and red stringybark (or
red mahogany) are the best fencing timbers to resist
both the white ant and fire; and both-are long-last-
ing. True, I have split bloodwood, both green and
dead, and found the heart full of the ant; but the
animal or devil does not seem to touch it when it is
worked up. I have never seen white ant in scrub
box, but I don’t know what the timber is like for
fencing or building. Anybody tried it?
“Mimosa”: “Waring” (B. 23/3/’ll) says
he knows a thing or two about ostriches, but less
about emus. Please let me tell him he knows no-
thing about either. He kicks off by stating that at
the laying period the ostrich hen is a constant sitter,
that it is not until the end of the laying period that
the cock bird takes a turn, that then she has practi-
cally to drive him to the nest, and that, when she
gets him there, she forces him to sit a solid 23 out
of 24 hours. All rubbish! He states that the eggs
are 12 in number.. Wrong again! Ostriches “pair”
for some weeks before the hen commences laying, and -
she lays, according to her condition, from 14 to 24
eggs. The first four or five, which are unfertile, she
rolls out of the nest, to provide food for her
chicks when they arrive. Then she commences in
earnest, laying fertile eggs. Even if the unfertile
eggs outside the nest are removed, she will not roll
out fertile ones. But if the eggs in the nest are
handled during their absence,, especially by strangers,
the chances are that,. upon fhe. return of the birds,
they will kick the eggs and nest to smithereens.
Thenest is made by the birds lying flat on the
ground, and scratching the earth or 1 sand away/with
. the spur on the extreme point of the wing. The
emu is fitted with a similar wing-nail, which no. doubt
is used for the same purpose. When breeding season
commences the hour of the day or the nighf can
always be told in S’Africa by merely watching the
. nests. From 12 midnight to 4 a.m. the hen is ; sit-
ting ; 4 a.m. to 8 a.m., the cock ; and so on by four-
hour shifts. These times are more or less adhered
.to within half an hour. “Waring” states that in
. S’Africa half the eggs are “unfertile,” which he at-
tributes to the long distance the birds have to travel
for water. Wrong again ! Ostriches do better with-
out water —-—that is, if they can get their natural
food. Copious drinking spoils the feather value by
softening the quill. In one camp of 1000 acres, and
without artificial feeding, the birds living on the
natural foods (aloes, spek-boem and wacht en
beitje) I kept some 200 birds, and the only water
they got for two years at one stretch was the little
that. would lodge for a few hours after, the rare
showers, find the feathers during this period were
superior to those from birds in the breeding camps
i that had access to water.' In the Port Elizabeth
Park (Cape Colony) are two hens and a cock emu,
and last year one of the hens bred out six chicks
while in captivity. Being Australians like myself, I
took more than a passing interest in them. I
noticed that, these emus (even the one not matri-
monially inqlined) cared for the offspring from birth.
An attempt is being made to cross these emu chicks
with ostriches, and I am anxious to see if the
hybrid will show more “wing” that the emu does,
and whether They will drop their inside toes, so that
they may bear a greater resemblance to their rela-
tive ostrich.
* * * •
“Leo Lear”: The par. (B. 23/3’/ll) re
the lack of sulphur in the language of bullock-
punchers nowatimes, saddles the blame on the wrong
animal. It is the bullocks, not the drivers, that
have deteriorated. No self-respecting puncher of
the twentieth century would waste lurid words on a
team composed of milkers’ calves, black-nosed cross-
breds, Ayrshire-enm-Jersey stags, and all the rest of
the motley crew that make- up 90 per cent, of the
working teams. The poor brutes wouldn’t under-
stand it. Does any “Abo” scribe know of a team of
24 “bawlics,” with language and driver to match,
within the four walls of the continent ?
“Bilbax”: Concerning the friendly wag-
tail (fantailed flycatcher), a girl-teacher, herself as
sweetly feminine as the wagtail, tells me delightedly
of one that every evening accompanies her home
from her bush school, flitting about her dainty feet
all the way. I’m never going to tell her that the
wagtails occasionally play round ifly No. 10 bluchers
in the same way; and I’ll never spoil her little
romance with the sordid explanation that the little
beggar dances attendance on anything—human, bo-
vine, or equine—that moves through the grass and
stirs up the insects.
THE PRIDE AND THE PALL.
Angel of Mercy “ Ok, my dear man , what
brought you to this 1 ”
HER DEAR MAN : “Just vanity , mum.
alius did fancy meself in white duck!"
THE LOST YOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have a friend who likes to tell,
When beer has fashioned tears,
Of those who used to drink with him
Back in the bygone years.
“Where are the friends of years gone by?”
He weeps against the bar;
I sometimes can’t say truthfully
Exactly where we are.
And as I nod, and shake my head,
And sigh, and order drinks,
Then with his theme he goes ahead,
As through his tears he blinks:
“Where, where, are those I used to know
Why did they droop and fail?
For some are now in lieav’n, I hope,
And some are now in gaol;
“And some of them o’er dangerous seas
Have been long wont to roam;
And some of them are married men,
Who hurry early home;
“And some of them have signed the pledge”
(In grief he falls on me) ;
“But where’s the noblest of them all,
And who and what was he ?
‘Tis then I prop him up again,
And order drinks, and say
It was himself; but, as in pain,
He waves the thought away 1
“I see him now —a stately bit
Of young nobility!
It might have been me, I’ll admit,
But ah! it isn’t me!
“He was a young, pure lad when he
Was young and pure ; the fire
Of genius was in his soul
A man all might admire.
“And he is gone! The stately form
Has vanished from the path;
He was a blast of passion’s power,
I’m but the aftermath.”
lie orders drinks, and broods awhile;
I lean on him and weep ;
Then usually we are informed
It’s time for bed and sleep, v
And then we see each other home,
Blending our tears, while he
Describes in grand and flowing words,
His youth’s nobility.
I meet him sober in the day.
“Last night,” says he, “we had
A rare old time! But once, you know,
I was an awful cad.
“When young I was a sickly prig
A smug, conceited dunce,
Who thought no end about myself,
And never got drunk once.”
N.s.W.
HAMER.


THE WEEK’S HOP EXTRACT.
I fs it ( imperative that prisoners under escort to
and from the various gaols should travel in prison
garb ?
A report on this m^ch-discussed, subject ha?
been obtained by the Acting-Premier, Mr. YV. A.
Holman, from the Comptroller-General of Prisons;,
who opposes the clothing of prisoners'in private
apparel while in transit. The Comptroller-
General points out that, as far as pos-
sible, prisoners are removed by
morning trains when ordinary
passenger traffic Is light.
As a compromise morning
dress with one broad arrow
worn unconspicuously on the
back is here suggested.
' '
,: a ; t Saturday Hop went -M" »
«ns mach.nt. 1 H * * Hospita , Satur-
bird’s-eye vttw u(d hear the, V
day collection. » e cou, “ " tc ,
\ r attle of the money-boxes
distinctly. The scene was
SO fascinating ’hat ne
‘ could have stopped M
up there all day
and, as a
matter of
fact, he
did.
By the Nikko
Maru, which
came into the
port of Sydney
yesterday morning,
there arrived Professor
E. R. Inouye, of Tokio,
who is on a tour round
the world. The professor,
in an interview, explained
that he wts on a journey
round the world in order to
write a book, which will deal
p.incipally with education in lands
other than his own, and also religion.
For tips en religion as she is practised
in Australia, Prof. Inouye could not do
better than sit at the feet of Cardin.,l
Moran and Rev. Dill flacky.
A NEW DISEASE.
Potter: “ Hallo, Spotter; what’s irp ?
\\ hat are you staring at ? ”
Spotter: “Notting; can’t help it.
Doctor says it’s aeroplane neck
it’s going about just now.”
. - • . ‘ the - 'census.'
' '^ r - Knibbs said that many people
Had misstated their ages, males as
well as females being offenders. He
added that he intended to start on a
remorseless campaign against the
. - ~ . offenders..
the ansers sonte old hiaids gave in regard to their ages I
°*V™'r M r‘ their •*•“«« S =me.T.hTio
hosses Takm the sences requires experience, like any other biznlss,”
■ -- ' ’ *' Artemus Ward.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
Trade Mark Case.
A WARNING.
It having come under our notice that various
substitutes are sometimes sold and passed off
as 0.T., notice is hereby given that this practice
is a breach of the Trade Marks Act, and con-
sequently illegal, as O.T. is a Registered Trade
Name, and applies only to the beverage made by
this Company.
After this date all persons who so continue to
pass off other drinks as O.T. will render them-
selves liable to proceedings under the “Common-
wealth Trades Marks Act.”
O.T. LIMITED,
F. Malvin Quinn,
Acting Managing Director
March 1, 1911.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MR. JUSTICE ISAACS, of the High
Court of Australia, the Judge in the
Coal Vend Case.
The Victorian Western District recently
lost three of its ancients —Robert Beames, 93 ;
John Ellis, 79; John Rugman, 74. Beames was
an Australian native, born in Tasmania; Ellis
was one of the few who were saved from the
Schomberg, wrecked near Port Campbell in the
late ’so’s ; and Rugman named one of the steepest
hills between Cobden and Port Campbell.
John Melville, who was on Melbourne
Argus for nearly 50 years, died at Hawthorn a
day or two ago. Apart from his staff work, he
contributed to both Argus and Australasian,
using the penname “ Quivis.” He had a decent
style, and always had something interesting to
say. Adam Melville (Melville and Mullen) was
his brother.
“Locust”: When Symon, K.C., com-
plained of a nasty taste in the mouth, Piper,
K.C., suavely suggested (B 27/4/T1): “You’ve
bitten your tongue.” The witty remark is remin-
iscent of the story of the famous French actress
and wit, Sophie Arnould. She had been attacked
by a scurrilous writer, who was afterwards acci-
dentally poisoned. Said Sojjhie : “He must have
sucked his own pen.”
Amongst the unclaimed moneys in the
Barrack-street Savings Bank is said to be the sum
of £3OO collected for the Black Brother who was
with Kennedy the explorer, tended him when
speared, and subsequently protected his body
from mutilation and desecration.
Died the other day John Otton, of Nume-
rella, one of the best-known men and wisest stock-
breeders on the N.S.W. Soutli Coast. Once, at a
Bega Show, the Governor was on hand, and still
the “opening” did not take place. “What’s
wrong? Why the delay?” somebody asked.
“ Young man,” said the official addressed, “ you’re
a stranger here, or you’d know that John Otton
hasn’t come yet, and you’d know too that no show
is ever opened here without John Otton.”
The old N.S.W. Arbitration Court was
evidently not good for the health. Justice Cohen
was President for some years until he felt his
health going. Cruickshank, the employers’ repre-
sentative, became a wreck. Poor Sam Smith, the
employees’ rep., suffered even worse than death ;
he, by the way, is still alive. J. P. Wright, who
followed Cruickshank, also broke down : and the
last Court sitting he attended was held in his bed-
room. To him succeeded T. E. Spencer, builder
of houses and verses ; and, though he saw the
Court out, and thereafter sat as chairman of
numerous Wages Boards, the microbe had evi-
dently got to work in him, too, for he died very
suddenly on Saturday.
The death of Charles Tattam, of South
Yarra (Vic.), at 84, recalls the stirring times of
the Maryborough gold rush in the ’5O s. Police
protection was ineffective, so a vigilance com-
mittee was formed. Of this Tattam became an
active member. One of the “ articles of associa-
tion ” under which the committee worked read as
follows : “ That it be distinctlj 7 understood by the
members that this society does not advocate
lynching.” Nevertheless, there was some sum-
mary jurisdiction, and whoever fell into the
clutches of the vigilance committee had a sorry
time if found guilty. Moreover, the tribunal,
like the High Court, was not bound strictly by
the rules of evidence.
Dutton Green, who died in Adelaide the
other day, aged 60, put in his thumb and pulled
out a plum from many a private enterprise pie.
He was a director of the Glenelg Railway Co. till
the Government took the lines over ; a director of
the Gas Co.-, and of the S. A. Brewing Co., and
of John Hill and Co., and of the Metropolitan
Brick Co., and right along he was at the head of
a land agency business founded by his father three
years before George Dutton was born. In his one
spell in politics, 30 years or so back, he had John
Bray for a colleague. The two ran in double har-
ness, and placarded their district with this mas-
terpiece in verse :
Then vote for Dutton Green so gay,
And chippj, chirpy Johnny Bray.
And the dumbfounded natives voted accordingly.
J. W. Niesigh is the first N.S.W. press-
man to make a professional (or any other) air-
flight : he went with air-man Hammond from
Ascot racecourse to Liverpool (N.S.W.) for the
Sun the other morning. Originally on the News,
Niesigh attracted “Curly” Hutton’s attention
when that officer was in control of Australia’s
military forces. The pressman was made the
General’s secretary, subsequently rose to the rank
of captain, and helped in the South African raid.
Invalided home, he turned again to presswork,
joined the D.T., and gathered in more than one
“scoop” for the paper. Perhaps the best was in
connection with the wreck of the Annasona a
couple of years ago on Middleton Reef. Owing
to lack of space all press representatives had been
refused a passage on the tug sent out to the 7 wreck
from Sydney; but Niesigh stowed away, and
when he unearthed himself it was too late to put
him ashore. The skipper swore like 10 tomcats,
but a little thing like that didn’t stop the Tele-
graph coming out with about 10 columns of the
dreadful happening.
The Sydney dailies were all at sea con-
cerning the ancestry of J. F. Plunkett, who died
at Neutral Bay (N.S.W.) last week. His grand-
mother was not “one of the beautiful Misses
Gunning, whose portraits are historical,” as
alleged by S. M. Herald (4/4/T1). One of these
famous ladies married the Duke of Hamilton (and
when he died the Duke of Argyll), the other the
Earl of Coventry. A Major Plunkett who fled
from Ireland after the '9B rising did marry a Miss
Gunning. She was the only daughter of Colonel
John (not James, as the Herald has it) Gunning
by his marriage with Miss Minifie—the Marie
Corelli of her day. She was anything but a
beauty. Colonel Gunning was a pronounced
“dog” or “nut.” He eloped with the wife of
his tailor, and a writ for £5OOO damages found
him safely outside the British jurisdiction in
Naples. The Colonel’s wife was, amongst other
things, a tireless matchmaker, and her efforts to
get her daughter off occasioned infinite merriment
to the wits of the day. Walpole, that relentless
hater of all the Gunning family, was particularly
acid on the subject.
W. F. Buchanan rode off to the Last
Muster from Sydney last week, and nearly
10,000 square miles of station property, 100,000
cattle, 50,000 sheep, and much city estate
changed owners in Consequence. He was born in
Dublin in 1822, and came to Australia with his
father, an ex-69th Regiment officer, in the ’3o’s.
The elder Buchanan secured Dartmouth, on the
Hunter (N.S.W.), and later two other properties
in the Gunnedah and New England districts.
After his death W.E. got the lot by buying his
brothers out. In 1849 he did some mining, and
claimed to be the pioneer of the Dralla (New
England) goldfield. In succession he bought
Breelong, Warrana, Yoolundry, Coonamble and
Magometon stations, and then sold out and
bought Killarney, near Narrabri, which he kept
till he died. He also owned considerable slices of
Queensland and the Northern Territory, and
kept his nose continually to the grindstone until
he died, a lonely old man, perpetually distressed
by the thought that nobody wanted him except
for his money.
Every Australian who has read Mrs.
Aeneas Gunn’s book, “ We of the Never-Never,”
will be sorry to hear that Henry Peckham was lately
drowned at Campbell’s Springs, Victoria River
district (N.T.). Peckham, bushinan and mailman
in the Northern Territory for over 20 years, was
“The Fizzer” of the book. “It takes a bit of
fizzing through, all right,” was the hardest thing
he was ever known to say about the scorching
stages he had to battle through. And in the end
—drowned!
PROFESSIONAL PRIDE.
CLEAVER, M.D. : “ That’s a case of mine.
Alost successful. Operated on him last year.”
ROD, C.E.: “What with? Gas?”
One of the most successful unrehearsed
“hits” at a recent smoke concert of N.S.W.
Writers’ and Artists’ Union was the fiery speech
delivered by Bernard Ingleby, a well-known
Melbourne journalist. Bounding to the platform
like a kangaroo, he treated his amazed audience
to a fantastic disquisition on the defects of
Monarchy that would have made Deutscher Bill
and Alphonse the Rake writhe had they chanced
to have been “among those also present.”
Ingleby’s forthcoming publication, “The White
Republic”—an illustrated monthly—is due for its
first appearance shortly. It will agitate for a
Universal White Republic, led by Australia, as a
barrier to the further spread of the colored races.
Its editor announces that it will be run on
“ cosmic” lines, with the ultimate object of
attaining a White Man’s Universe. It should be
a remarkable production, to say the least, and the
solar system is anxiously awaiting the arrival of
the first issue, billed for June.
Dr. Malcolm Maclaren, the geologist who
was recently engaged reporting on Westralia’s
goldfields, has been revisiting his old home at the
Thames (M.L.), and has taken the opportunity to
repeat the warning he gave
Maoriland’s windy capital
four years ago. The geo-
logical expert considers the
possibility of a serious
earthquake in Wellington
to be so probable that he
says: “To build there at
all is folly; to continue
building in defiance of
the well-known principles
governing the construct on
of earthquake-proof build-
ings is criminal.” Mean-
while Wellington continues
to nail its jerry-built man-
sion to the side of a steep
hill, and puts its faith in
Providence and hard liquor.
C. H. Goode, the
youth who has lately been
elected president of the
Adelaide Y.M.C.A., was
an M.P. in the Wheat
State 46 years ago, and he
was nearly 40 then. He
has been toiling since he
was about 10 (just upon
three-quartersof a century),
and he has made much
money, which he gives
away freely. At 84 he is a portly, up-
right old man, full of energy, and never happier
than when he is with other youngsters with 60 or
65 years less to their credit than himself. His
firm deals in softgoods and makes straw hats.
That eminent little lawyer, N.S.W.
Equity-Judge Simpson, when he first took up
week-end residence at his Blue Mountain home,
\fras sorely troubled by the incursions of vagrant
cows, of which he at last complained to the
police. Now, it happened that, as his Honor, a
man of simple and unobtrusive ways, had arrived
at Blackheath without beat of drums, he was
personally unknown to the local force, and when
he visited the police station he was met in the off-
hand fashion in which official personages of almost
despotic power are wont to receive meek people
of no apparent importance. “ Luk here, me
little mahn,” said the gigantic senior-constable
pityingly, and placing his massive hand upon the
shoulder of his diminutive visitor, “ whin ye get
to know as much about the law as Oi know, ye’ll
be aware that ye can’t legally pound cows off un-
enclosed lands outside a municipality. Do ye
mind me now ? ”
Joel Eade, who has been widely accused
of being the father of technical education in
Vic., died at Collingwood last week, aged nearly
89. Having made a bit of money on the Beech-
worth and Daylesford diggings, he began business
as a builder in the city, and built a good deal of
old Collingwood. Thereabouts he established a
school of design in 1871, and two years later
organised a technical exhibition, and kept the pot
boiling until the State was ready to step in with
substantial help.
Australia lost a valuable man the other
day when O. A. Sayce, tdl recently assistant
lecturer on bacteriology in Mel-
bourne University, died suddenly
—it was on the very day on which
he was to have taken-up his new
work as director of the South Aus-
tralian Bacteriological Institute.
Though in a way he made a
specialty of the fresh-water Crus-
tacea of Australia, he was a very
versatile scientist. An important
contribution by him to the litera-
ture on micro-organisms in cere-
bral meningitis will shortly be pub-
lished.
Died at Parramatta (N.S.W.) last week,
John Ferguson, late editor and proprietor of the
Cumberland Times, aged 80. Mr. Ferguson
came to Sydney in the early ’so’s, and for many
years had a book-selling business and supplied
the Education Department with school books
and stationery. A pungent writer, he was fre-
quently in hot water ; but he seemed to like that
temperature best.
Wrecks seem to run in some families.
Among those drowned at the time of the loss of
I the Gothenburg, on the Queensland coast, was
Captain R. G. A. Pearce. His son, Tom Pearce,
was afterwards wrecked in the Eliza Ramsden,
off the entrance to Port Phillip, but was saved ;
and he was on the Loch Ard when that vessel went
ashore at The Caves, near Moonlight Head, on
the south coast of Victoria. Tom Pearce swam
ashore, and also saved Miss Eva Carmichael.
These two were the only survivors. Pearce then
joined another Loch vessel, which was wrecked
on the Irish coast. He is now master of a steamer
belonging to the Southampton Royal Mail Co.
His son—the old captain’s grandson—Thomas
Richard Pearce, had no sooner started on his
career than he was wrecked in the Loch Ven-
nacher.
Mostly about another George :
St. George’s Day having just passed, with George as
monarch vice Edward, it is curious to note that George
became England’s patron saint vice Edward. Edward, the
Saxon, was too monkish—too saintly. Gibbon traced St.
George to a rascal known as George of Cappadocia, killed
by an angry mob in 361 a. d. ; but his latest editor won’t
have it so. George, he says, was martyred at Lydda,
Palestine, in 303 a.d. According to this view, George was
a noble Roman officer, who tore down a copy of Diocle-
tian’s edict suppressing Christianity, and suffered for it.
Then came Constantine, who turned - Christian, and
sainted George. They did it quicker then. Nowittakes
400 years, and Joan of Arc is hardly put through vet.
When Richard I. was crusading in Palestine he was
greatly tickled with the fables concerning George, and
adopted the cry, “ St. George for England!” But not
till the reign of Edward 111. was the uncertain and ob-
scure gentleman made the complete national saint. The
dragon business is partly an application of the Perseus
and Andromeda legend, the locale of which was not far
from Joppa, and Joppa is not far from Lvdda. Perseus
saved Andromeda from the dragon. The explanation
probably is that George made a breakwater, and saved
many souls from the dragon-like sea.
HE COULD NOT TELL A LIE.
G.W.: “Dear me! How late it is! What
time does the last boat leave? ”
ALL: “ Oh, the boats run all night now.”
G. W.: “Ah! In that case I can stay all
night. I promised my wife I’d not miss
the last boat.”
The dreadful Vic. parson Worrall pub-
lished a letter the other day about labor and the
Labor Government. They asked Hughes about it
next day. “I have never before read anything
like it in my life,” said Hughes. “Was that a
minister of Christ speaking ? I thought it was a
toad spitting.”
EUREKA!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Another Eureka veteran has passed out at .—Any
paper, almost any day.
When the grey campaigners gather just outside the
Gates of Gold,
Will the old Eureka veterans get a special warrior fold ?
When they roll up in their thousands, as they’re counted
here below,
Will the scoffers gibe and jeer them for their proud
Eureka “ blow ” ?
It’s a puzzler to the student who has read that Lalor’s
braves
Never numbered full three hundred—men who scorned to
live as slaves—
How it happens that each hamlet, from the Gulf to Mel-
bourne town,
Boasts a pair or two of battlers whom the Eeg’lars hunted
down ;
Hunted down the hills and valleys, while old Peter
wounded lay
On the field of our one battle, soiled with hero-blood and
clay ;
Hunted down with ball and bay’net, through the gloom
of Freedom’s night,
Just because those gallant ragers raised a rifle for the
right.
I’ve a great respect for heroes, for our heroes are but few.
And the old ones die off quickly, and vve seldom breed
’em new ;
But when ev’ry fiddling village breeds a round Eureka
score
I begin to feel a lusting for the high Eureka gore.
True, it may be Peter Lalor had five thousand men at
call,
Or it may be that the thousands come of tipple, talking
tall ;
But the fact is, as we wander down the placid paths of
Peace,
And the older men keep dying, so the Stockade boys
increase.
And if e’er we offer pensions to the warriors who survive
I’ve a notion they’ll be swarming like the bees about a
hive :
And the crowds who’ve fought with Peter will be famous
ne’er a jot,
And the most distinguished people will be those of us
who’ve not.
QUEENSLAND.
P. FLAM.


mm
.
■ ■
-.■■■ ' .
'
s *
■■l
*n
v?.;
WM.
l■ ; ■
i\
smss
mm
s • i
-i
|
.
' r ' t * *\** '' ■*?• J
0
(?
9
D
y
3
o
&
v • ••' ' • -■
■ ■
" ■.• i - !
v;XX
iSsa®
■a." !3«as» r ''yß|
: a
H'
■ ■ . . •■ «$«•
r* i s
lOr.S'*
\J
A . 1
Llts
'\
/ ■ vX 6V ;-x
, V:
VX X? •
'-*i
’
7/“
X V 4 X
s;.t
-*-•7
\\X
?s.
r
t)io^7‘
a
.
2=X;
iKDsw. *.
:>'
—:<o
x. 'WAX
x .x- Lk
HP
V i
■mrmmmi
«o
Kit
&
r^/Tv
*
Is
(Xs^
&X?xNi
n&
■
;
/
->te-
"X.
SSB
i^ 7
-
$55
•\ i
v -:, v v -r —x_r w-*: . V
X
m
■- . •
-a:
' ;i JF
|£yj^
—i.
/
r
,
siM’—
*
•—■■. V V.
7'A
ij>~
X :
MO
.Moj
X-
-3.
;Mf |AA.
; 5 •
■H lff :
•.XV' tX
r-x
iz^&i
H>2;' -X'. •/.
_ j 0«-'-' >'■':
g
f
!
i
\
-
• • feafifflsS
*
'
-Ax
iXi
vx
'
It
PH
■ ‘
. :\a
■
-
LOOK FOE OUE
TRADE MAEK.
s
JJONE GENUINE WITHOUT IT
ALL OUR
CEILINGS
ARE
AUSTRALIAN
MADE.
1
i, m
i '.stth&'K
X 3
■::'S'
a..«
'M'
A:-AX. ;
A
/
fri*
f-
if;
™mi
''A.
■ -' ’- W§ 11
'
■r.
M
(h
mm
WsM£
iL
J
mm
Safe-Beautifttl-Ecoivomical.
IF there is one thin" it does not pay to buy the cheapest of, it is a ceiling, for defective ceilings
will depreciate your property perhaps more than anything else. The introduction of labor-
savinc^ made P it possible to purchase our Art Metal Ceilings-thoroughly depend-
able, artistic in design, sanitary and fire resisting—at prices that bring them within the reach
of the builder of the most modest dwelling. , ,• h fra mar P
All Wunderlich Ceilings carry our trade mark on the back of every sheet , which tiade
is sustained by quality, artistic conception, reliability and value
Wunderlich Ceilings are sent out thoroughly primed on both surfaces with a coat of be.
Paint. This forms an ideal ground for the decorator. TVlt f pr n
The pattern illustrated above is a photographic representation of our Ni. . . 1 <
iPPl Send°foi d our Catalogue, which illustrates a large range'of patterns, and gives all particulars as
to fixing, and how to decorate our Ceilings. _> a mu ,
We are also Sole Agents for the famous Marseilles Red Roofing liles.
WUNDERLICH LTD.,
56 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 243 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: Bowman Buildings.
PERTH: Lord & Short Streets.
BRISBANE : 363-5 Queen Street.
N.Z. Agents: BRISCOE & CO. LTD.
HOBART: Collins Street.
LAUNCESTON : St. John Street.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.
r i CIRCULAR QUAY (EAST), SYDNEY.
! .Specialise in “ ROBEY ” Portable Steam Engines and Traction Engines
“NATIONAL” Gas Engines and SUCTION Plants, ’“ROBEY-
LEPLASTRIER ” Roadmaking Plants, Light TRAMWAY Material etc
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Bank op Australasia (Mel-
bourne) :
Diva, on To Re- Re-
Profita. All Shares. serves. serves.
Sept., 1903.. £17,251 5 p.c. =£10,965 £6,256 £54,613
Mar,, 1904.. 19,117 5 „ ~ 10,967 8,150 62,763
Sept., 1904.. 18,287 5 ~ ~ 10,967 7,320 70,083
Mar,, 1905.. 19,320 5 ~ ~ 10,067 8,353 78,43 i
Sept., 1905.. ' 15,314 5 ~ ~ 10,977 7,337 85,773
Mar., 1906.. 19,405 5 „ ~ 10,982 8,423 94,196
Sept., 1906.. 19,578 6 „ ~ 13,178 6,400 100,596
Mar:, 1907.. 22,086 6 ~ ~ 13,178 8,908 i 09,504
Sept., 1907.. 19,532 6 ~ ~ 13,178 6,354 115,85 S
Mar., 1908.. 23,205 6 ~ ~ 13,178 10,027 125,885
f 23 6 ~ ~ 13,1781
Sept., 1908..-j Voted for Provident V 323 126,208
l Fund, £lO,OOO J
Mar., 1909.. 22.710 7 p.c. = 15,375 7,335 133 543
Sept., 1909.. 19,293 7 ~ ~ 15,375 3,918 137,461
Mar., 1910.. 23,417 7 ~ ~ 15,375 8,042 145,503
Sept., 1910.. 23,509 7 „ ~ 15,375 8,134 153,637
Mar., 1911.. 23,708 7 ~ ~ 15,375 8,333 161,970
This bank is not pushing ahead very fast. Four
years ago, it will be seen, the profits were almost
equal to those of to-day. Now, that wouldn’t be
satisfactory if the advances, and consequently the
risks, showed a large growth. As a matter of fact,
they have moved on only from £2,718,914 to
£2(861,602. There has been a fairly large increase
in deposits—from £3,112,486 to £3,796,311. In-
stead of being lent out, on mortgages, etc., almost
the j whole' of this money has been added to liquid
assess. Plainly, then, this bank is playing for
safety. It has the money, and it could get business
at a price; but it does not believe that the return
is good enough in view of the risk. Values certainly
have been very high, and a shrinkage in almost every-
thing is pretty certain to come sooner or later. The
bank which took the risk and said that the slump
wasn t due yet, has, of course, made a heap of
money. But it might easily have been otherwise.
Also, it will be otherwise some day. When, therefore,
the. slow movement of this bank’s profits is noted,
let it also be noted that its risks have (so far as
one; can tell) had a very slow movement, too.
The most unsatisfactorv feature about it is the
wretched lay-by. The dividend should not have been
put; up past 6 p.c.—the reserves should have been
greatly strengthened first. As it is, with the re-
serves so small and growing so slowly, the bank can-
not afford to do much more advance business without
getting in more share capital. Already it has about
£7i 4s. of the public’s money for every £1 of its
own—and that is quite up to what is generally re-
garded as the limit of safety. Certainly it doesn’t
matter much what amount of public money a bank
hasi so long as it merely locks it up in a -vault. But
if it uses more than from 35 to 40 p.c.
of ; that money, it should not take more
than £7 from the public to every £1 of its
own —or, rather, it should get in more share capital,
or lay by more profits, if the proportion goes beyond
seven to one. At present, though the proportion ex-
ceeds seven to one, 42 p.c. of the public money is
m liquid assets; so the position is apparently quite
secure. But if the advances increase, then, in view
of the poor reserves, more capital should be got in.
It shouldn’t have .been necessary, but the premature
increase of the dividend will make It necessary.
Uecent movements are shown next:—
i Mar.,' ’lO. Mar.,’ll.
Notes in circulation .. £138,752 £128,851 Dec. £9 901
Bills in circulation, etc. 286,702 336,585 Inc. 49 883
Deposits at interest.. 2,208,374 lnc 30 087
Free deposits.. .. 1,515,552 1,557,850- Inc. 42,’298
Liquid assets .. .. 1,658,630 1,800,093 Iric. 141463
Advances .. .. 2,850,829 2.861,502 Inc. 10 673
Premises, etc 241,079 217,778 Dec. 23,301
There is nothing here of much consequence. The
sloVv growth of advances and the heaping of liquid
assets have already been noted. The profits, calcu-
lated on capital and reserves combined, are very fair
indeed :
Sept., 1907.. £7' 2 4 p.c. Sept., 1909... £6 14 8 p.e
Map., 1908.. 8 7 2,, Mar., 1910.. 824
Sept., 1908.. 719 3 „ Sept., 1910.. 8 0 9.”
Mar., 1909.. 8 0 7,, Mar., 1911.. 8 0 0,,
One would not judge from that, that there were
mahy dead accounts. And in that connection it has
to be remembered that, though there has been little
growth in the total of the advances, it is quite pro-
bable that the bank has been steadily reducing
some advances that it wasn’t much in love with, and
substituting others for which it has more affection.
! * * * *
The Bank of Adelaide (S. Australia)
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1899.. £33,026 7 p.c. =£28,000 £5,026 £180,988
1900.. 38,413 8,, ~ 32,000 6,413 187,401
1901.. 48,097 8,, ~ 32,000 16,097 203,498
1902.. 45,925 8,, ~ 32,000 13,925 217,423
1903.. 52,317 8,, ~ 32,000 20,317 237,740
1904.. 47,337 8 32,000 - 15,337 253,-077
1905.. 47,876 8,, „ 32,000 15,876 268,953
1906.. 46,286 8,, ~ 32,000 14,286 283,239
1907.. 56,265 8£ „ „ 34,000 2g,265 305,504
1908.. 56,510 9„ ~ 36,000 20,510 326,014
1909.. 52,694 9£ „,, 385.000 «14,694 340,708
1910.. 66,130 10 „ „ 40;000>'S'.26,l'S0-. > 366,838
. Premiums on:new shades ... 50,000 416,838
1911.. 79,648 10 p.c. = 45,000 34,648 451,486
There is only one bank with head-6ffice and most of
thq shareholders in S. ,pnd this is.it.
Moreover, practically all' its interests are in the
State ; it has a London branch,’ but>nonej in: any part
of ;the Commonwealth outgide S, Aug. i This localisa-
tion no doubt has its disadvantages.- If S. Aus. is
hard hit by drought or other cause,.the bank ;has no
chance to even things up by doing well elsewhere.
But it has its distinct advantages, .too. The manage-.
meht can know all the tmsinfess • as : i f it were its
its own, and not a corporation’s. And, as it happens,
thp management is a wonderfully’ well-informed one
so ,far as S. Aus. is concerned.' It may go wrong as
to, the trend of politics; but it knows the State
through and through otherwise. Further, it corn-
mands unbounded local confidence. In all the ' cir-
cumstances it isn’t surprising that a large helping
of;the S. Australian fatness: of'the past seven years
hag landed on this bank’s plate. Between 1900 and
19(11 the visible profits have more than doubled ; and
on, a 10-year view the figures are almost as striking.
There is no mystery about it, either; the balance-
shifet totals explain it all:
j March, 1901. March, 1911.
; Liabilities .. .. £5,250,938 £5,437,119
i Liquid assets .. 1,322,535 2,613,110
j Advances .. 1,489,453 3,712,290
Premises .. .. 58,447 88,205
TI us the advances have considerably more than
doubled. Further, while,’it; is. .quite . possible that
thfcre were some lame ducks among the accounts 10
years ago, there should be nothing of the kind there
new. Certainly some of the accounts may go lame
by-and-bye. Farming land in S. Aus. has reached a
staggering price in parts; as much as £l4 an acre
is being paid. Old ideas as to what are legitimate
prices have been temporarily hung up. It is not
much use saying that land is not worth more than
£5 an acre for wheat-growing, when in hundreds of
cases men have cleared £2 10s. or £3 an acre a
year for six or seven years. But just as there have
been extra-fat years there will be extra-lean years.
When the latter come there will be trouble for the
new man who, not having had two or three good
seasons to stand on, has to pay interest on (say)
£lO an acre. How much a bank will lose will de-
pend on the margin it has insisted upon. How much
loss it will show will depend on the size of its con-
tingency fund or undisclosed reserve.
There is no way of telling what a bank’s inner
reserve amounts to. A hint may, however, some-
times be got by viewing the rate of its earnings
calculated on capital and visible reserves; if the
rate is high, it is a pretty good hint, as a rule,
that the bank has really more assets than it claims.
In this case the earnings are about £8 16s. Bd. p.c.
" 1 ( can t be stated exactly, because some new
capital has been got in during the year. Now, this
isn’t very high; but other things have to be taken
into account. For instance, ' the amount of the
public s money in use. The bigger the amount in
proportion to capital and assets, the bigger the risks
(especially if the money is loaned out), and the
bigger the profits ought to be. Here the total lia-
bilities are equal to £5 14s. for every £1 of the
shareholders’ funds; and that is a comparatively
small liability. Moreover, no less than 48 p.c. of
these public liabilities is in liquid assets. These
ngures point to a very strong position, looked at
from every point of view. They suggest, though ad-
mittedly they do not prove, a good inner reserve
to provide for a possible—even probable—shrinkage
m the value of securities.
One more comparison to show the movements of
the past year:—
XT Mar., 1910. Mar., 1911.
Notesin circulation .. £225,893 £228,477 Inc. £2,584
Bills in circulation .. 773,422 477,439 Dec. 295,983
Deposits, etc 4,149,493 4,731,203 Inc. 581,710
Diquid assets .. .. 3,032,876 2,613,110 Dec. 419,766
Advances .. .. 2,817,429 3,712,290 Inc. 894,861
Premises .. .. 85,342 88,205 Inc. 2,863
I' rom that it will be seen that the position, though
strong still, is not as strong as it was 12 months
ago, on account of the large increase of advances.
J he figures of this bank are, however, liable to move
in that way without much significance, because it is
the banker to the S. Aus. Government. More im-
portant is the further solid advance in the bank’s
resources. Apart from the new deposits, the share-
holders have put up another £150,000, £lOO,OOO
0 , n a r„ < SR ltal (bringing the total to £500,000)
£»,• ui ’OOO as premium. The management is to
be highly commended for issuing the shares at a price
which permitted this substantial addition to reserves.
The Maoriland Government Life Insurance
Department
. Added
Claims Provided to In-
T . andSur- Ex- against De- surance
> Revenue, renders, penses. preciation. Fund.
iqoo" £ !!H 6 a £2l1 ’ 383 £59,639 £14,400 £136,147
1900.. 423,700 219,993 61,431 _ 142 276
1901.. 460,/53 256,100 59,194 145 459
451,348 271,268 59,895 22,783 97A02
1903.. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129 244
1904.. 480,716 266,704 60,490 ' 153522
499 ’ 924 263,148 63,829 6,953 156,994
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 109 02?
2- 526,712 304,230 66,670 155*812
1908.. 534,440 328,763 68,403 20,000 117 274
min" 333 ’"° 72 > 120 - 140,456
1910.. 561,151 340,028 71,E34 149,589
Ihis is the one Australasian State-owned concern
doing a general life-assurance business. It is handi-
capped in some ways. It confines its operations to
Maoriland’ and therefore can’t show the big figures
which, though they may really be an element of
weakness, are an attraction to so many people
Moreover, its bonuses are not very big; and very
big bonuses are an attraction to "so many people,
though they may mean nothing either. Bonuses
arc a return of the money in excess of what is
really required for the purpose for which it was col-
lected ; so that the bigger the premiums the larger
the bonuses ought to be. The insurer may there-
fore be best served by an office which pays the
smallest bonuses, provided that its premiums are
smallest; wherefore, when big bonuses are traded
on, it is always well to turn up and compare pre-
miums charged. In the case of the Maoriland office,
they will be found to be unusually low.
The business is not done very cheaply—possibly
tor the reasons mentioned above. The State office
CO u m £ eteS ,^ or policies in the ordinary way, and
whether that isn’t a mistake is a matter on which
different opinions may be held by equally sane men.
I n the basis of total income the expense rate works
out as follows:
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1901 .. £l2 16 11 per cent. 1906 .. £l3 7 6 per cent.
1912 .. 13 5 5 „ 1907 .. 12 13 2
1903 .. 13 19 4 „ 1908 .. 12 16 0
1904 .. 12 11 8 „ 1909 .. 13 310
1905 .. 13 O- 0 ~ 1910 .. 12 14 11 ~
If the public were as wise as it ought to be, it
could save £5 14s. lid. or more of that, and still
get just the 'Same insurance. Tens of thousands of
people want insurance, and know that they want it;
and they take it just as they buy any other security
or go into any other investment. Why, then, they
should have to pay an unnecessary 6 or 8 p.c. for
the very doubtful joy of chasing somebodv else with
the investment is not obvious. Some old English
offices don’t pay commissions. They can thus af-
. *4° the same work foi: lower premiums than
r °® ces > an< 4 that of itself attracts business.
When the Commonwealth establishes an office it
might work on those lines; for an office offering cost-
price insurance is badly wanted in ‘ Australia
Maoriland, .however, began on the old competitive
lines; and, as the foregoing fighres /show, its busi-
ness is rather expensive, especially’ when one con-
siders that no very large number of new policies are
written.
* * ' * " ' * *
The Maorijland, Government Acqident. In-
surance Department, • •
■ ■' ’Carried td • 'To
■ Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for-Unex- Re- Re-
Infcome. .Profit'.* piped Risks, serves, serves.
1901 ..£11,897 £4096 £3780 . £316 £4,096
1902 ... - 14,171 • -931 . - 240 , .691 5,027
1903 ’.. 24,449 4758 4510 . 248 9,785
1904 .. 24,188 ' ■ 5418 978 4440 15,203
1905 24,876, .., ,6572 80 6492 , 21,775
1906 .. 21,929 1664 1604 . 23,379,
,1907 ... ,22,835 4901 1 4901 ' 28,280
1908 .. 22.688 1 T 4094 ,4094 / 32 374
1909 .. 28,515 ' 8528 ' 2264 ‘ 6264 '40*902 ’
1910 .. 23,907 4764 f , ,4764, . 45,666
The year’s record doesn't look' so well. But you
can t tell what good a State enterprise is doing by
the amount of r profit, irfc *is making, or, even by the
amount of business it is doing. The object of the
State is not to make money, but to provide the
people’ either lyith better' goods >or with cheaper
necessaries. If the State believes that the public is
paying top much, and ■fakes'; g hand,’ ito success is
to be partly gauged by the price which* thereafter
the public has to pfi.y., ;In thin,/iffeiter 6f> accident
insurance 1 rivate Enterprise ha's > been offering more
liberal terms; and, sinoe-’ the} isfcdteLis nit in .the:
business to cut under what it thinks* iilp, faib thing,
? J' i W f K)llcles have been going , elsewhere, ■ and the
totai figures show no increase. ’ ’ Nevertheless, the
oiiice has a very substantial connection still. The
public could, no doubt, get still cheaper accident
and other insurance than it gets now. It is simply
a matter of making the public office big, and re-
ducing the costs by rendering much of the present
canvassing unnecessary. This shows how the total
income goes:—
Claims. Expenses. Reserves.
1901 .. £2O 8 2 p.c. £45 3 4 p.c. £34 8 6 p.c.
1902 .. 51 19 3 ~ 41 9 4 „ 611 5 „
1903 .. 51 2 3 „ 26 8 6 „ 19 9 3 ~
1904 .. 50 1 3 „ 27 11 3 „ 22 7 6 ~
1905 .. 45 310 ~ 28 7 9 ~ 26 8 5 „
1906 .. 62 11 4 ~ 30 2 3 ~ 7 6 5 „
1907 .. 49 8 8 „ 29 2 1 „ 21 9 3 ~
1908 .. 52 11 4 „ 29 710 „ 18 010 „
1909 .. 44 11 0 ~ 25 3 7 „ 29 18 5 „
1910 .. 52 7 7 „ 27 14 0 „ 19 18 5 „
Much of that expense is quite unnecessary. The
railways don’t spend hundreds of thousands of
pounds in snaring passengers and goods. When you
want to go from one railway town to another you
just go—the railways don’t spend 25 p.c. of the fare
in chasing you up, and arguing with you, and bring-
ing you up to the scratch. If they did they would
have to charge you 25 p.c. more than they do at
present. It could be exactly the same with a hundred
other things if the public chose to make it so. Ap-
parently, however, it has resolved to make this office
exist on a starvation diet; and though the office can
even then do good service to the country, it doesn’t
do anything like the service it might.
* * * *
Standard-Waygood. Ltd., an amalga-
mation of two Sydney businesses, whose chief object
is to put in and look after electric lifts and other
electrical machinery (goodwill, £15,000 to start
with) :
Towards
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910. . £11,078 12£ p.c. =£5,750 £5323 £9672
Premiums on new shares .. 5825 3847
Reserves.
1911.. 17,273 12£ p.o. =lO,OBO 7193 3346
That is one of the most remarkable records in con-
nection with any Australian flotation of recent days.
Commencing only two years ago with a deficit of
£15,000, representing goodwill—which, of course, is
only a paper asset —it has already wiped that out,
and established a substantial reserve; and meantime
it has paid a dividend of 121 p.c. p.a. Some help
certainly has come from premiums on a new share
issue, but only £5825 so far. There was a first
issue of 50,000 £1 shares. The second issue was _
25,000 shares at 255. ; now there is to be a third ‘
issue of 25,000 shares at the same price. Altogether
£6675 will come in as premiums. This will formally
wipe out the goodwill, and leave the co. with re-
serves of £10,021 —without anything added as profit
from the current year’s business. It is a splendid
record, and all the better because the co. doesn’t
possess a monopoly, though certainly it has exclusive
rights to some machines and processes; and, more-
over, the large construction works in progress in
Sydney at present are quite abnormal. So far as the
lift and elevator business is concerned, the co. has
the competition of the Hydraulic Power Co. In
consequence of the rapid extension of the business,
it is quite likely that further capital will have to
be got in. There is the £31,250 to come from the
third issue; but large work-shop additions are called
for, and, to be on the safe side, shareholders are
asked to sanction the creation of 150,000 new shares.
That, however, doesn’t mean an immediate, or even
an early issue; in fact, there are many cos. which
never issue their authorised capital. But with the
rapid increase in the use of electrical appliances,
the issue of the new shares is a probability which is
well worth taking into account. The co. on March
31 owed a total of £18,877; in cash and invest-
ments it had £16,212; and that was apart from
book-debts, £29,945. Its financial position is, there-
fore, very sound. Stock and work in progress run to
£43,800 ; plant and tools to £5155. Depreciation
has been written off; but the amount of the pro-
vision is not specified.
**. # *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
Mine Writ-
Development ten
Profit. Expenditure. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1904 .. £353 £2,349
Mar., 1905 ..105 2,244
Sept., 1905 .; 289 1 £221 £1856 4,032
Mar., 1906 .. 577 751 4,206
Doss.
Sept., 1906 .. 2 2974 7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907 .. 441 4274 1280 12,295
Loss.
Sept., 1907 .. 17 1010 984 14,306
Profit.
Mar., 1908 .. 5,377 2447 3021 14,397
Sept., 1908 .. 8,094 1605 6103 14,011
Mar., 1909 .. 8,061 684 6557 13,191
Sept., 1909 ... 8,655 147 3713 8,396
Mar., 1910 .. 538 193 301 8,352
Nominal
Reserves.
Sept., 1910 .. 13,716 3666 1,698
Mar., 1911 .. 10,730 3746 8,682
“The co.’s indebtedness on mortgage and debentures
has now been entirely paid off,” and all that the
co. owes is £4504 on Ordinary trading account.
On the other side, there are liquid assets, mostly
book debts, totalling £14,861. It is a remarkable
recovery. The co. worked itself almost to a stand-
still, and had practically . exhausted its old mine
before it set out to find a new one. It had great
luck in its Neath purchase, and by paying no divi-
dends, letting out its coal-trucks (which are usually
good property), and working what was left of the
old mine economically, it has managed to open up
and equip its new property with scarcely any in-
crease of capital. (The total paid capital in 1902
was £103,078 ; at present it is £108,248.) There
was a time when the main question was —“What can
we get from the wreck?” If the pref. shareholders
had had their way, the co. would no doubt have been
wound up. But the ordinaries saw that their best, if
not their only chance, was to try to carry on, and
trust to luck to pull through. Now the question
is—“ How shall the jjrofits be divided ?” There is
£20,000 of l2Jp.c. 'pref. capital," £70,000 in old
fully paid £1 ordinary shares, and £20,000 in
contributing shares, on most of which 2s. is un-
called. As there are doubts as to how the profits
should be distributed —especially as to whether the
ordinaries should,, have .a .-look-in, or whether the lot
should be distributed -’entirely among the prefs.-—-a
■friendly EqjjftX .suit'.js, pending; and there will be
no distribution 'Until’' 'the -‘question is settled. The
new property. iSHrptf; n/((‘gulaf- producer—or as nearly
regular. Northern.pjstriit coal mine usually is.
The gross , proceeds'or ,the past .yearJs trading were
about ’;£95;(S00; •of ,'which 1 £40,580. came in the
past six frtopcfjhfl. <>.. r J 1., S
.Th.e tfeih Co. (jjT.S.W.)
U; * ijotal Deficit
'' 1 ; •’ ■ Charged (apart
ffco- from
~ Coal, r Dane! Develop- Develop-
’ Sales. Sales. riient. ment).
- Mar. j 1904-...£9)927 ; £-209 ; £9,881 £1520
Sept., 1904 n.. 11,898' -. '>27B :: 11,017 2054
Mar., 1905 .’. ,1,1,986 ' .' 12,450 2054
Sept.,' 1905 .. 6,956 ' ' -U! 13,961 3406
Mar., 19,06 .-. 12,420. ~ / 14,323 3538
Sept., 1906.. 10,373 '14,323 3394
Mar., 1907.. 11,197 14,323 3770
Sept., 1.907 .. 19,'194 7*— ■ 14,323 1903
Mar., 1908 .. 16,468 14,638 1017
. Reserves.
5ept.,1908.. 14,285 15,900 1004
Mar., 1909.. 9,883 ' 15,966 421
: • - -•- Deficit.
Sept., 1909.. 11,035 15,966. 799
Mar., 1910.. 5,875 .~L>\ ip,966 727
5ept.,1910.. 12,343 - 15,966 E,eSer '| 0 i
! Deficit.
Mar., 1911 ... 4,205 - 15,966 1085
This unfortunate co. has struck more trouble. It
started with too little capital, and had to pay dearly
for the further supply that it wanted. Then, when
it was just pulling itself up on, to its feet, a fire
happened, and the mine had to "be sealed. Next came
the strike; and now, when -a- .shade over, expenses
might have been cleared, the mihe-’hasv-to be sealed
again, owing to the heating. ,qL'dlie. old workings'.
The shareholders’ capital is £63,417 (£28,000" of
that represented the purchase-price), and £2500 is
owing on debentures. All this money, plus about
£lBO,OOO derived from coal sales, has gone into the
working and development of the mine; and never a
div. has come, and never a div. is in sight either.
* * * *
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which was
formed early last year to take over the A.B.C. cafes,
and began with £17,965 of its capital represented
by goodwill, which, of course, is a purely paper
asset: —
Profits. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit.
Apr., 1910.. £17,965
Sept., 1910.. £-2347 6p.e.=£1050 £428 17,096
Mar., 1911.. 3384 8 „ ~ 1400 228 15,340
This puts the position in the best light*- Thus there
is a paper asset apart from goodwill—leasehold pro-
perty, which was £3750 to start with. This may,
however, be passed as a real asset, though it is a
wasting security. The amount shown as written off
is in reduction of the book-value of these leaseholds.
This is not strictly a writing off at all; it is more
truly rent. You take a lease at a comparatively low
price, payable in cash; but in addition to paying
the cash, you undertake to put up certain improve-
ments, which latter fall into the landlord’s maw at
the end of the lease. Clearly, then, the cost of the
improvements is part of the rent. In the foregoing
table the profits are, therefore, swollen by including
these amounts as profits. Except these amounts
nothing is written off. The provision for deprecia-
tion is included with the reserves. This depreciation
reserve amounts to £1000; if this means that plant
has had £lOOO chipped off it —which is highly pro-
bable —then the true profits for the year can be
stated as follows: —
Profit as above .. .. .. .. .. £5731
Less unexplained reduction of good-
will £l5
Leasehold sinking fund .. .. 656
Depreciation 1000
1671
True profit £4060
Much depends on the provision made to cover depre-
ciation. Wear and tear is heavy in a business of
this kind ; and the question is whether the year’s re-
newals, plus the £lOOO, cover the full depreciation
for the year. On that point each man must judge
for himself. The co. is launching out .into numerous
branches; and the directors report very satisfactory
progress. The heavy goodwill item is a severe handi-
cap ; but this class of business is so profitable that
the paper is being pretty rapidly replaced by cash.
There are two weak points about it. (1) A co. or
private person without a goodwill loading, could
say, “Well, if this concern has to pay interest on
£35,000, more than half of which is not repre-
sented by tangible assets, I can plainly sell cheaper
and still make good interest, because I only want in-
terest on my actual investment.” (2) The co.’s
shops are all leaseholds, and if a profitable business
is established in leasehold premises, the landlord has
a habit of saying at the expiration of the lease,
“Where do I come in ?” And then up goes the rent,
or out goes this tenant and in comes another —pro-
bably in the same line of business.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees’ Association (Launceston):—
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1903.. £470 6 per cent, = £315 £155 £2631
Mar., 1904.. 815 6 „ „ 315 500 3131
Sept., 1904.. 667 6 ~ ~ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905.. 696 6 „ ~ 315 381 3864
Sept., 1905.. 1148 6 ~ „ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906.. 1040 8 „ ~ 420 620 5317
Sept., 1906.. 818 8 ~ ~ 420 398 5715
Mar., 1907.. 714 8 ~ „ 420 294 6009
Sept., 1907.. *627 8 ~ ~ 420 407 6416
Mar., 1908.. 841 8 ~ ~ 420 421 6837
Sept., 1908.. 863 9 ~ ~ 472 391 7228
Mar., 1909.. 666 9 ~ „ 472 194 7422
Sept., 1909.. 605 9 „ „ 472 133 7555
Mar., 1910.. 648 9 ~ ~ 478 170 7725
Sept., 1910.. 968 9 ~ ~ 472 496 8221
Mar., 1911.. 950 9 ~ ~ 472 478 8699
This co. has lately been putting substantial sums to
reserves ; for the past year the total lay-by is greater
than the dividend. But, on past records, the profits
are erratic, probably because commissions on the
corpus of estates are taken credit for in lumps. The
paid capital is £lO,OOO. This and the reserves are
by a £5OOO Treasury deposit, £13,577
advances on mortgage, and a few trifles. The interest
earnings ( £432 for the past half-year) are almost
sufficient to pay the dividend, leaving the profits
from the business to go to reserves, where, of course,
they form a fund to guarantee that the co. will do
the things which it undertakes—a. guarantee which
no private trustee by any chance ever offers. Be-
sides the paid capital, there is a further £40,000
for which the shareholders are liable; and that adds
to the guarantee.
The public subscriptions for Bananaland’s
new loan amounted to only 9 p.c., leaving over 90
p.e. to be taken by the underwriters. Of course the
usual yarn is told —the loan was a success, because
the State will get the money. True, but the market
has yet to absorb that 90 p.c., and until it is ab-
sorbed the chances of floating another loan are nil
or thereabouts. Moreover, the bigger the proportion
left with underwriters, the bigger the underwriters’
risk, and the heavier their charges on future loans.
One way and another Denham’s prospect of loading
the already overloaded State with another
£10,000,000 isn’t brilliant. J. Bull has evidently
got very tired of politicians who shriek about the
horrors of Socialism, while begging for money to
carry out Socialistic works.
* * * *
Bananaland finance is running as wild as
ever it did. “Trust” expenditure has leaped from
£345,000 for 10 months to £715,728 for the same
period—more than doubled. Loan expenditure has
bounded to £1,624,502 for the same term, an in-
crease of £362,659 on the corresponding 10 months
of the previous year. _ The two together total about
2f millions so far, an increase of nearly three-quarters
of a million on last year’s ten months’ record, with
a fair promise of mounting up to nearly £3,000,000
by the end of the financial year, 1910-1911. Bv the
way, Premier Denham was one of the old disaffected
Tory supporters who abandoned Philp in 1903, on
the ground that he was a financial incompetent, and
not to be trusted. Now Denham is knocking out
Philp’s worst record.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners make
a very important change, practically abolishing re-
turn tickets. Simultaneously they reduce the single
fare to about one-half the present return fare. This
and a few other modifications will, it is estimated,
mean a loss of £50,000 a year to the Department
—that is to say, a gain of £50,000 to the travelling
public. The return-ticket system will apply in future
only to suburban lines and the tourist, week-end, and
agricultural show business. The change goes the
right way. The State railways don’t have to compete
with other railways, and, therefore, there is no busi-
ness reason why they should offer inducements for
the passenger to come back over the State railways.
If he wants to come back from Bourke or Bathurst,
the passenger will inevitably come back by rail. If
he undertook to come back within a month, the rail-
ways have charged him (say) one-third .less than if
he took two single tickets, not being sure whether
he would come back in a month or nine months.
The man travelling to work will be particularly
benefited; hitherto he has been more or less sacri-
.ficed, while the holiday tripper has had an advantage.
The latter won’t be appreciably worse off now; the
other will be appreciably better off. Apparently the
change will not at present extend to inter-State
traffic. A railway conference is, however, pending,
at which probably the matter may be further dis-
■ (from London) : The fight be-
tween China for the iron and steel tradf
of the .world Sms to have begun. At Hankow,
iron and steel IPPrks have been slowly feeling their
way for '2l Jearsi Now the Chinese have contracted
to send 50, 800 ton! of pig-iron to Seattle, on the
Pacific coast; and another contract to send 100,000
tons a year for 13 years has just been concluded.
Besides,' the Chinese have agreed with the Japanese
Government to supply 100,000 tons of iron
ore , and, 'lOO,OOO tons of pig-iron annually
for 30 y,ears io Japanese works at Wakamatsu.
The dont'ract price for best magnetic ore is 6s. per
'”t6'ri.‘ ' THei’Hankow'lron Co. has a deposit of ore, of
60 to 65 p.c. metallic iron, which by quarrying can
produce J,000,000 tons a year for 100 years.' Also it
. , -imm 1 !


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-I) K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams ;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4ld. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to ’
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand; D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [l
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
has a coalfield estimated to be capable of putting
out 1,000,000 tons of good bituminous coking coal
a year for several centuries. Large coking
ovens have been installed. The co, employs 20,000
men at 3d. or 4d. per day per coolie, and Is 3d.
per day for the highly-skilled worker. Labor is so
cheap and plentiful that it does not pay to instal
labor-saving machinery, as they are constantly doing
at Pittsburg. Here in China there is the ideal com-
bination of factors for successful iron and steel pro-
duction —plentiful iron, coal, fluxes, and lots Of
cheap laborers, with an almost unlimited market in
the vicinity. If this development is causing un-
easiness in the United States, with how much greater
reason should it cause the Commonwealth Government
to think hard and act promptly! The Australian
iron industry will be in constant danger of its life
if the Commonwealth is not prepared to go to the
length of totally prohibiting Chinese or Japanese iron
or steel from coming into the White Continent,
A crisis has arrived in the affairs of the
Broken Hill South Blocks, and 8., M. and Co. are. in
consequence seeking earnestly for some process cap-
able of securing a high extraction at the lowest pos-
sible working cost. 8., M. and Co. Beldom leave any
avenue to success untried, and that is why they are
now having 100 tons of South Blocks ore put through
the Murex magnetic plant oh Block 14. The Murex
is a most attractive process so far as the first con-
centration goes. It will easily obtain an extraction
of 85 p.c. of the metal contents of ore. But when
the ore is Broken Hill silver-lead-zinc, a second
concentration is necessary. This is a much mope
complicated job than the first process; and it is
this part of the business that is still merged in
partial obscurity. No reliable results of the full
treatment are yet available) but it is time they were.
The South Blocks’ parcel of ore will be treated by
the complete process, and on the result of that ex-
periment will depend whether the Murex process
will be installed at the South Blocks or not. Owing
to the ore being pretty well beaten out of the South
Blocks down to the No. 4 level, the average grade of
the sulphides sent to the mill has fallen from 16.4
p.c. lead to 14.4 p.c., and as the silver doesn’t
amount to much, a high extraction is absolutely
necessary if the mine is to be run at a profit.
* * * *
So much stacking of zinc concentrates by
the Broken Hill producing companies looks as though
the Zinc Convention has been putting the brake on
production in order to hold up the market. In ad-
dition to about 40,000 tons paddocked alongside the
railway line at Burns, on the South Australian border
—the product of the De Bavay Co. and Zinc Cor-
poration—the Sulphide Corporation has about 20,000
tons of zincs stacked on the Central lease. A similar
quantity of zinc concentrates produced by the B. H.
Prop, is stacked on that mine. All this stacking of
material means that a big bill is being piled up
against someone. . At first, when the dumps started
to grow, a lack of ships was hinted at; but that
excuse has now been just about exploded.
* * * *
T. A. Rickard’s London Mining Maga-
zine says, apropos the tremendous litigation among
the zinc flotation cos., that “W. L. Baillieu goes
to London presumably to the Coronation, really, it
is believed, to try and bring about a consolidation
of the various flotation interests. It is said that he
expects a knighthood. Personally, I think he would
have tenfold more gratification in pulling off the
amalgamation.”
* * * *
Queen Bee, near Cobar (N.S.W. ), hopes
that prospecting below the 570 ft. level will re-
sult in a healthy addition to ore reserves. There is
talk of 60,000 tons of ore lying thereabouts; but
shareholders can only see such things with the eye
of faith, and the eye of faith is one of the finest
magnifying glasses yet invented. Exploratory work
at 570 ft. has certainly resulted in the discovery of
some rather patchy makes of ore; samples taken at
163 ft., 167 ft. and 172 ft. assayed respectively 7.96
p.c., 10.77 p.c. and 5.14 p.c. coppef. The
first was for a width of 3ft.,. and the other
two for a width of 12 inches. The '.'samp-
ling and assaying were done some time ago.
Near the surface the Queen Bee was a bulky, gos-
sanous formation, that made into rich ore at depth,
but when the sulphide zone was reached average ( values
declined, so it became difficult to keep up an average
extraction of 7 p.c. copper. Even that value was
only maintained by careful picking, and towards the
end of the smelting campaign did not prove profit-
able.
* * * *
Mount Bopp.v, the most fruitful gold mine
in N. S. Wales, made a net profit of £42,563 last
year, and distributed £42,350 of it. That meant
7s. per share, as against ss. 6d. in 1909. The ore
taken out was 78,690 tons; nevertheless, it is rec-
koned that the reserves were increased by 9000 tons.
Further, the two ore bodies came together in Taylor’s
shaft, and the junctioned body is going down very
strongly. The position as to reserves is very good;
so is the financial position. The one insect in the
honey-pot is the altering character of the stone; but
even that insect isn’t -as large as an albatross. The
change calls, however, for some new and modified
plant.
Harden (N.S.W.) is now on the wrong
side. Last month’s working costs ran to £1459,
while the total revenue was £1313. It is now a
question of scraping up ore, so mining costs are very
heavy. Things may look better when the co. can get
into the new Central workings, though prospects are
still only very moderate.
Following modern American practice, a
scheme is being arranged for the amalgamation of
some 10 or 12 copper mines near Tottenham, in the
central west of N.S.W. There are two groups of
mines in the district, separated by an unproductive
zone about 10 miles wide. One of these groups, that
at Tottenham, is of a basic nature, the mines there
producing a pyritic ore, carrying roughly 4 p.c.
iron, 4 p.c. sulphur, and 7 p.c. silica. The copper
content in this group, at the present depth (350 ft.),
is a shade over 4 p.c. The other group, at the
Albert Waterholes, carries about 45 p.c. silica, with
about 6 p.c. copper at the deepest point reached
(280 ft.). With the advent of the railway to Tot-
tenham—which the Government has undertaken to
construct, and which will connect these two groups
with the seaboard—the project should be a success.
The present method of ore treatment at Tottenham,
by reverberatory furnace, is expensive, and also
chemically wasteful. With an up-to-date plant and
water-jacket treatment, there should be fair profits,
as ore supplies are plentiful.
The Cessnock Collieries, Ltd., was lately
put on the London market, with a backing which
practically ensured a float. Capital, £350,000;
vendors take £50,000 in cash and £75,000 in
shares, leaving £225,000 for working capital. The
bulk of this is to go in building a railway to the
mine, which is in the South Maitland district. Dr.
Robertson estimates that there are 43,300,000 tons
of workable coal in the 2872 acres; and, when the
expectations of the promoters are realised, there will;
they say, be a profit of £97,500 a year:. The pro-
moters’ expectations are pretty large. East Greta,
about the most Successful of the Maitland collieries,
does very well to make a profit of a good deal less
than halt that much; # #
On February 28 last Lake View-Star
(W.A.) estimated its ore reserves as follows: Lake-
View leases, 156,555 tons, worth 28S. 3d. per ton;
Hannan’s Star leases, 246,763 toils- Worth 295. 6d.
per ton; total, 403,318 tons, valued at 295. per ton.
The Star leases Show art increase on last year’s esti-
mate) which was 166)500 tons of 325. 6d. ore; but
since then Morrison’s lode reserves below No. 3
level have been included. Lake View’s little lot has
diminished from 306,000 tons to the figures givert
above; but a Comforting feature about the present
estimate is that the value is greater.
Want of fresh water at Norseman (W.A.)
is seriously interfering. with Mararoa’S profits.
months ago, when the dams dried up and the scarcity
first made itself felt, the Co, substituted salt for
fresh water in the treatment of slimes. This altera-
tion played the mischief with the following month’s
extraction, ahd consequently the plant was shut
down. Mill and Sands plant have since been kept
going with the Salt fluid; but; what with the- in-
creased CoSt of working and the extra losses in the
residues; it is estimated that the return is between
£5OO artd £660 lesS than it ought to be. Unfor-
tunately the Co. Cannot Stbp the sands portion of
the plant Without Shutting down the whole treatment
works, artd rather than do this it prefers to carry on
under present conditions until ' rain comes to its
assistance. Under the circumstances, this is probably
the best thing it could do.
* * • 1 * *
Greenbushes (W.A.) has been given- a leg
up by the recent rise in tin, and-a big increase in
the output is predicted when the Winter rain sets in.
Three dredges are now at work, and- within the next
few months this number is expected to be increased
to 10. A, E. Morgans and. Prank Moss still hold
between them most of the payable ground.
Flag Gold and Copper Co., at Phillips
River (W.A.), has at last decided to wind up and
auction its assets. . i i
*,* * f *
Bullfinch East (W.A. ) has come to. light
with a rich leader somewhere below 100 ft.,, and when
the last mail left the West the eo. was busy 1 bagging
ore. This show has hitherto been regarded as'a value-
less delusion stuck among the granite, consequently the
sight of gold in its workings has given rise to a
wild whoop of joy on the field. So: far the leader
only shows a ribbon width, but already inches are
being magnified into feet, and gold values have
been estimated at lOOoz. or thereabouts, ' Judging
by local exultation over the find, all that is now re-
quired to make Bullfinch take leave of its. senses is
for some of “the surrounding schist that carries
gold” and the “2ioz. hornblendic rock” to again
make its appearance in the Bull Ant.
* * * *
8., M. and Co. ha/ve bad their Transvaal
option at Southern Gross (W.A.) extended, and they
intend to see what sort of an extraction the ore gives
when treated in bulk. The Transvaal ore is said to
be even worse than the Lancefield to handle, and
after the gruelling- the firm has had at the lattef
mine it is no wonder that it is going to have more
than one look before it leaps.
“Oof Bird” ' (W.A.) : Re Bull Am.
“R.B.’s” ignorance of the circumstances surrounding
the flotation of this mine almost takes my breath
away. Either he doesn’t know enough about the
subject to even speak in his turn, or he is trying in
a clumsy sort of way to shield someone else. The
show was not floated on Grut’s report, but on that
of D. L. Doolette. Grut’s opinion was only used in
conjunction with some vague remarks made by Great
Boulder Hamilton about the Bullfinch field. Proof
of this is to be found in the chairman’s address at
the statutory meeting of shareholders. Isn’t it,
therefore, remarkable that such an oracle as “R. 8.”
should have heard of only Grut’s and Henderson’s
reports—the latter of which was not even mentioned
in the prospectus—and isn’t it also remarkable that
he should have never heard of Mines Inspector
Orabb’s report, dated November 21, 1910, which
was two days before the mine was placed on the
London market? That report read as follows: “On
the Bull Ant, which is situated a few chains from
the Bullfinch, a little development has been done on
a quartz vein that, may possibly average five inches
in width to a depth of 40ft., and from which, I have
been given to understand, some samples taken from
the walls gave encouraging results.” Had the gist
of this report been published in London before the
float came off, the guarantors of the issue would have
been stuck with, most of the shares; but unfortu-
nately, the widows, orphans, country curates and
other gullible persons who made a wild rush to get
in did not hear about it until it was too late. Ap-
parently there are many things about Bullfinch that
“R. 8.” doesn’t know; but for one who has had so
much to say about the subject, his want of know-
ledge about the Bull Ant passes all understanding.
* * * *
The great profits that have been soaked
out of some Victorian tailings heaps, both battery
and alluvial, have led to a rush for tailings, the con-
sequence being that heaps which were regarded as
valueless a couple of years ago are now being
worked, and even 2s. stuff is being tackled. At
present it is about as easy to find a profitable un-
worked heap of tailings in the State as to stumble
on an alluvial bonanza; but every successful attempt
to knock a penny or so off the costs leads to a fresh
attack on a crop of slightly poorer stuff. One of
the most striking features of the industry has been
the development of the art of selling “interests”
or shares in ventures. Many enterprising individuals,
by preserving a judicious secrecy about their real
returns, and cutting a dash in the eye of the public,
make a good thing by taking up dog-poor heaps, and
generously selling a part-share to an unsophisticated
stranger at such a price that the original holder
“stands on velvet,” no matter how returns go. By
estimating expenses on one day’s running, and allow-
ing nothing for wear and tear and the loss of time
and profit during the wet Victorian winter, and by
reckoning probable returns on the highest possible
returns shown by small bottle tests, almost- any
heap may be made to appear a bonanza to a man
who doesn’t know the game, and who judges it
simply by paper estimates. Thus many profitable
attacks have been made on the pockets’ of usually
shrewd Victorian business men. Worked on legiti-
mate lines, the cyanide business in Victoria still
offers many openings for the investment of capital,
but the devious methods of some of the partner-
cyaniding experts tend to an absurd price being
paid for heaps, which, in itself, tends to the dis-
advantage of cyaniders who work the process as a
legitimate industrial undertaking.
* * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers
crushed 742 tons for £2092, which is poorer than
recent returns. Reserves are being drawn upofi at
the rate of 1400 tons per month. A crosscut has
been driven from No. 3 plat, and it is intended to
put a rise up to a formation passed through in
sinking the shaft. The Freehold has now paid 9s.
per share ill dividends; but it had to battle hard
for 20 years before the shareholders saw the first
Shilling; Some rather patchy prospects are being
obtained in extending No. 5 leyel on the hanging-
wall reef. So far the best values have been sand-
wiched irl between No: 5 and No. 7 levels, continued
from Mills United. There is no direct evidence
that the reef rises up into the East Mexican. Even
..if it does, it is not at all certain. that it will carry
payable gold.
* * * 4
. Mills United, Charters Towers, crushed
1038 tons for £3422. The directors hold pretty fast
to a cash credit of £41,729, irrespective of the Bur-
dekin mill account, which is good for £9618; so
some of the shareholders ask what about a dividend.
Still they have the candid admission that the upper
levels are pretty well worked out, and that for the
future the Co. has to depend on the somewhat specu-
lative Chance of locating an isolated shoot of min-
eralised Stone 2400 ft. from the surface and some
1000 ft. . eist of the main hauling shaft. Sinking
below No. 14 level to prove this deep shoot will be
done about midway between the main underlay and
the Freehold’s boundary. Prospecting at depth in
the western section has not so far been successful,
but crosscutting between the parallel formations may
prove something. One thing can be said in the co.’s
favor—isolated makes of payable stone in a system
of parallel reefs are characteristic of the Day Dawn.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, is send-
ing larger crushings to the mill, but the returns are
not as good as were expected. Last year the average
was over £7 per ton, but that value was based on
small crushings of picked stone. Prospects have
been good in places, but they have been extremely
variable. There is no solid reason for thinking that
the Mexican, when tested on an output of 10,000
tons, will shape better than its close neighbors, the
.N. B. Freehold and Mills United, did. In that
Case the Mexican will have to be satisfied with the
value disclosed by- its last crushing of 492 tons for
£2261, or an average of £4 11s. lOd.; and even
that is better than Day Dawn crushings usually are.
Admittedly it is risky to estimate future profits and
dividends in a half-developed show; but if the Mexi-
can comes. up to the ideas of its enthusiastic ad-
mirers, it will certainly require a big slice of luck.
* * *
Tasmania, gold mine brightened up share-
holders by announcing £10,250 last month; but
then it transpired that 888 oz. came from a general
clean-up of the plates. The crushing of 3753 tons
for 15390 z. has the same old poor look; and the
cyaniding of 1680 tons for only 670 z. can’t give
much profit.
* * * *
Tongkah Harbor tin, the Siamese dredging
concern, after being under a cloud, gets rather
liberal backing again. Last month’s return of 92
tons of black tin is just ahead of Mount Bisehoff’s
regular 90 tons. Tongkah doesn’t, however, trouble
about sending the assay of its concentrates, which
may contain anything from 55 p.c. to 70 p.c. metal.
There is no more certainty about the future than
ever there was; and whether the co. can go on
dredging at this rate for months or for years is
quite a matter of guesswork.
“Phoenix” : Except for the bids of the ‘hut-
toners” the sale was very dull. Indeed, had it not been
for the buttoners’ nods, the Semetic-looking gentleman
would scarcely have been able to knock down any-
thing. Then a young fellow, wearing a new hat, a
crumpled suit and a coat of Outback sun-tanning,
strolled in. He was “spotted” at once. “Now, the
next article I have to offer is a solid gold, keyless,
hunting, presentation watch. The movements are
in perfect working order; compensation balance,
jewelled, and guaranteed to keep correct time. Now,
what shall I say? Gimme a start. It must be
sold to the highest bidder. One pound—one pound
—one pound I’m bid. Twenty-one, twenty-one,
twenty-one! ” Meantime the assistant was handing
it round for inspection and sidling his way to the
Outback. “Look ’ere, gents, my instructions are to
sell without reserve. It must be sold. Twenty-two,
twenty-two—twenty-three shillings. Any advance on
twenty-three shillings? I’ll knock it down, ’pon my
soul I will, although I don’t like sacrificing it.”
Just as the assistant reached the intended victim a
confederate bid twenty-four shillings, and after a
few earnest words from the young fellow to the
countryman, the latter was induced to bid twenty-
five shillings, and the watch was knocked down Ito
him. He proudly paid the cash and pocketed his
purchase. “The next article 1 have is a solid gold
clustered diamond ring, and I give you my honest
word that every stone is genuine. Now then, gimme
a start.” Then a similar routine was gone through
by the gang, until the same young fellow who pur-
chased the watch was induced to top the market by
bidding twenty-seven shillings. Some years ago
these bogus auctioneers were treated as spielers, and
the police hunted them. Lately, however, they are
more numerous than ever, and appear to be flour-
ishing.
Roland C.: In that case the manage-
ment consists mostly of “upper” Civil servants; and
Bilijim isn’t catered for.
* * * *
“10-2-4” : Light was cast on the ways of the
Gent One in a London case last month, when W. B.
Blackwell, of the well-known legal firm of that name,
sued J. Moir, an accountant, for £l4 125., due on a
promissory-note. The defendant said he had paid the
firm 10 guineas to defend him on an embezzlement
charge. In the middle of his trial Blackwell’s clerk
handed him the P.N. in dispute, saying that, unless
it was signed immediately, Blackwell would throw
up the case. Of course he signed it. The Judge
bumped out Mr. Blackwell, and said many harsh
things to him while doing so. It recalls the fact
that London is the hunting ground par excellence
of attorneys who, under a smug mask of sanctity, are
ready and willing to perpetrate any old villainy.
Australia’s most blasphemous, illiterate and generally
awful Gent One specimens are mere circumstances by
comparison. In fancy, I can see—and smell—a stair-
way within easy hail of the Strand which is the
regular haunt of most of the idle and disorderly
persons in London who have had the good luck to,
fall off ’buses, or over dogs, or down areas, or
(chiefest stroke of fortune) under motor-cars. The
legal firm which inhabits the stairway specialises in
“speculative cases.” Many of those awaiting aud-
ience are old and respected clients—sturdy fakers
who, by reason of some easily dislocatable elbow or
collar-bone, or as a result of a knee in which the
lightest touch produces sine vitis, are enabled to
spend their lives having painless and profitable acci-
dents. They have the various County Court areas
carefully mapped out, and starting with an accident
in No. 1 Jurisdiction are wont to go methodically
through, their list. By the time they get back to
No. 1 they are forgotten, and the whole business re-
commences. The enthusiastic way a few legal firms
hurl themeselves into the list on behalf of their
swindler proteges is amazing to observe. Probably
there is nothing in London to approach a typical
Sydney police-court practitioner in the matter of
disreputableness of appearance, appalling diction and
physical insanitariness. But so far as cool, cynical
unserupulousness goes, the Londoners have our men
beaten out of sight.
* * * *
Almost every week in Australian police courts
two or three traders are lined up for using unjust
scales, and although every lying one of them swears
(1) that the weighing machine had been tested and
found correct quite recently; (2) that the inspector
must have done something to the machine’s internal
organs to throw it off the straight line of honesty;
and (3) that no man could account for the vagaries’of
the infernal thing, hot a case has yet coine to light
in which the advantage of the deal was with the pur-
chaser. The robbery is really encouraged by the
trumpery punishment which follows detection—a
fine ranging from half a dollar and costs to rarely
beyond a couple of pounds. It is profitable at the
price, and boils down to a commercial arrangement
between the law and the thieves, the latter obtaining
permission to carry on by occasionally paying a
license-fee, or whatever you like to call it, into the
office of the former. They had a surer method of
checking the evil over 600 years ago, for it is re-
corded by John Stowe,- the historian, that “in the
fourth year of Edward ll.j Richard Reffeham being
Mayor, a baker named John, of Stratford, for making
bread less than the assize was, with a fool’s hood on
his head, and loaves of bread about his neck, drawn
on a hurdle through the streets of the city” (Lon-
don). That Seems an uncouth method, but it would
certainly have the advantage over that which merely
asks the thief to hand over a small percentage of
his ill-got gains. But since the old homely remedies
have gone out of date; what’s wrong with cold,
whitewashed gaol ?
Every engineer in charge Of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per Cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to thcSe
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc,, in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to looSe pulleys or
. truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian AgeHtSj
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured fot
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected b)r
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
* * * * -
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. H. Lamond & Co., 328 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair
than Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is
of the well-known Blake type, but has some ad-
ditional improvements which have justified in prac-
tice all the claims advanced by the patentee. The
work of crushing is done on the down-stroke of the
pitman instead of the up-stroke; there is no strain
on the pitman cap; two large side rods resist the
thrust of the toggles, and enable the jaws to be
regulated within a large range; the back toggle is
so made as to resist all legitimate strains of crush-
ing, but will shear under exceptional conditions and
save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating; the jaws are convex and con-
cave, and with the cheek plates are made of steel
and are reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have installed a great
number of these machines, and hold the sole manu-
facturing rights for the Commonwealth.* [3
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
“Fibro-Cement” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets. In
large size, Bft. 2% in. x 4ft. x (about) 14in. thick,
now largely used for walls, for homesteads, bunga-
lows, silos, cottages, shearers’ quarters, dairies,
stables. Fire, heat, acid and ant proof. Strong,
cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance rate. Photos,
and testimonials free from sole importers. James
Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and 681-
583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [ 1
Extract from the Journal of Commerce, Liver-
pool (29/11/’10). —“Colonial Mutual: This office is
one of the best, and has the advantage of capable
and progressive management.”*
NO EXPOSED METAL is the secret of Wood
Pipe’s success. Neither rust, acid, electricity or
minerals have any effect on the wood, hence its dura-
bility. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bal-
main, Sydney, will send catalogue on application.*
Mine Managers and Engineers. —Send vour orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information.' Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Sales-
man.)*
Nobel's Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil,
ease of starting, no complicated arrangement of
valves, and automatic lubrication, and these are testi-
fied to by Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 25
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* [1
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers. Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*


Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
0750
FINEST EXTRA Q?
Barked Your Shins?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it
will take away all the pain and stiffness, and you
will forget all about it. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
ROBUR
Can’t you stop when I tell
you? you know it’s my duty to
drop like a ton of bricks on
people doing wrong, but it’s
also my duty to pull them up
before they go wrong, if pos-
sible.
Now, upon the question of
tea, let me put you right, and
nobody that I know except
my old woman is better able
to do it than I am, for tea’s
the only thing she lets me
drink before I go on duty, and
as I seem to be always going
on duty I reckon I ought to
know something about it.
They do say the Govern-
ment Analyst is a great judge
of most things, well, I must
say he seems to know some-
thing about tea, because he
uses Robur in his home the
same as I do in mine.
It’s the No. i Grade that I
say’s the t:a to use. I’ll back
it against any tea you can put
up against it at the price.
The Policeman
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 8, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
The ’Varsity Women’s Corroboree, about
200 strong, held in the great hall of the
University, is another challenge flung down
at the patent-leather feet of Club Man, who,
for several centuries, has had a monopoly
of dining in herds. There doesn’t seem to
be any solid reason why women shouldn't
rejoice together over mock-turtle soup, or
mingle sentiment with quails on toast.
Hitherto a cup of tea and a scone has been
a popular cement for feminine friendship;
but such mild junketing is passing out of
date. Still, even this corroboree didn’t give
entire satisfaction; Dr. Evelyn Dickinson
is accused of having said at the Women’s
dinner: “A party of women might be full
of brains, but it lacked body. A dinner-
party of men reminds me of a cage full of
monkeys, all arms and legs. The ideal
dinner-party is male and female, as God
created them.”
“All Nations Fair” is said to be still sit-
ting heavily on the chests of some of its
women workers; and they are alleged to
have been, in consequence, less nimble in
pursuit of flying pence on Hospital Satur-
day. If so, I didn’t meet them. Walking
two city blocks was an extravagant tourist-
trip, punctuated by the deafening crash of
money boxes. A feature of this year’s cam-
paign was the increased attention collectors
Paid to their own sex. Last May, many of
those who assaulted the public purse in the
cause of charity turned a callous profile to
the mere woman. oome genius has discov-
ered, since then, that Woman is now a wage-
earning animal. She’s getting out of the
chrysalis stage of having threepenny-bits
handed out to her by the traditional bread-
winner, Man. In the first flutter of her in-
dependence sne’s liable to give quite two-
pence to a really good cause.
. Theatrical ladies failed to achieve the
high-class massacre for which the Lily Bray-
ton collecting box was responsible last year.
But they gave solid help. “The Bad Girl
of the Family” turned over a new leaf, and
made a gilt-edged reformation at the corner
of George and Regent streets ; and “The Wo-
man in the Case” forsook her heartless car-
eer, and temporarily collected charity shil-
lings instead of diamond pendants. The
grand total realised during the day was about
£8000; there are a few returns yet to come
in.
The Girls’ Realm Exhibition was buried
in a Bruce auction on Saturday night. This
final flutter occurred in the Dairy section.
There’s a highly-respectable law which for-
bids any other kind of auction to show its
nose out after sundown. A Bruce auction,
however, may appear by gaslight without a
chaperon. It’s an untamed liammer-rally
that begins by asking about 14 times the
value of a cream cheese, and falls down
without a blush, before the approximate
price. Mr. W. L. Stillman was the hon.
hammer-wielder or Bruce-smith.
A passing wag wrote “dairymaids” at the
end of the list of farm produce advertised for
sale. Another frivolous person furtively
pinned “Sold” on to the back of a good-
looking damsel in the buttermilk section.
There was no riot. A few mild, non-explo-
sive jokes ambled round the auctioneer’s
hammer, and business was brisk.
Mrs. King-Hall wanted to buy a quaint
sampler in the aboriginal ladies’ stall of the
“What-to-do” Exhibition. There was some
technical objection to selling this exhibit,
which travelled down to Sydney from an
out-back mission station. The Duchess of
Bedford also cast a longing glance at this
queer effusion in cross-stitch. Mrs. (Essie
Jenyns) Wood was another victim to its
weird charm. The facts behind this little
patch of crude needlework captured the
feminine imagination. An aboriginal girl
up country had been taught the ant-like in-
dustry of stabbing canvas with cross-stitch;
and out of her inner consciousness she
evolved this strange sampler. The early-
Victorian child worked samplers because she
had to. She watered them with salt tears,
and prayed hard in cross-stitch at the age of
eight (or thereabouts) that her many sins
might be forgiven. She generally finished
up with a staggering garden-path, and an
aggressive clump of lumpy rose bushes. For
some astounding reason this Australian
aboriginal has worked a sampler because she
wanted to. If it be true that no one helped
her, the effort, which is a rough fac-simile of
the early-Victorian species—Noah’s Ark
house, fat rose bushes, curly garden path—
ought to be burnt alive for witchcraft. If
the Mission people can climb over an ob-
scure conscience clause that prevented
their selling it, the incantation in needle-
work will be eventually lodged at Admiralty
House.
One of the male pillars of the Girls’ Exhi-
bition worked so late in the clearing-up riot
in the Town Hall on Saturday that
midnight found him alone with the night
watchman and the prize poultry. He was
too late to catch anything but a cold in his
head, so he looked round for a likely camp.
The Medical Mission bed had a chronic
dummy with a white wig curled up under
the quilt. He gave up his designs in that
quarter, and now desires to express his
thanks to the Civil Ambulance for the rest
its stretcher offered his aching bones.
When Sunday morning came he hunted for
breakfast. He was going to lead the simple
life with some rags of shredded wheat and a
sniff of proteid tea, when a prize fowl os-
tentatiously laid an egg. The male pillar
ate it. The Ladies’ Poultry Club may now
have the satisfaction of knowing that it is
a life-saving institution. It nobly lays
eggs, worth about 2s. 6d. each, for starving
young men.
Mr. Waterhouse, who wears several
learned letters after his name, caught some
of them in sprinting for butterflies. He lec-
tured with enthusiasm at the Girls’ Exhibi-
tion, on the wings, legs, breakfast habits,
etc., of these frivolous beauties. In the
same assembly, Mr. W. W. Froggatt, the
Entomologist, and Mr. B. Gurney—both
much-decorated scientists —introduced in-
sects to poiite society. Mr. D. G.
Stead discoursed on fish, but said nothing
about its getting any cheaper. Various
housemothers present longed to ask why
plain mullet, when offered for sale at the
back-door step, should sometimes wear an
entirely different name. In Maoriland I
once met, at lunch, a well-grown mullet
that was called rainbow trout. Mr.
Harrison, lecturing to girls on his favorite
bird-land, nearly reduced his audience to a
tearful pledge not to wear winged millinery.
The Union Club knew wealthy grazier
Buchanan, who died last week, better than
most people. When it thought of him it was
always as “Bluey,” though nobody seemed
to know quite why it teas “Bluey.” Until
about three months ago he was a hale old
man, who lived in a cottage at Rose Bay ;
but after that he failed fast. The thought
of having to pay some land-tax on the
great Killarney station, which for years
had strangled Narrabri, was one of his wor-
ries. He had five children—a son and
four daughters, two of the latter married,
one to another Buchanan. There will be
enough all round to keep the wolf several
miles away from the doorstep.
According to an evening paper, James
Francis Plunkett, who died last week, chiefly
of ripe old age, had Walpoles and Gunnings
amongst his ancestral skeletons. John Gun-
ning, a briefless Irish barrister, father of
the two famous beauties, Maria and Eliza-
beth, may therefore account for the love of
law which rages in the Plunkett blood. Mrs.
Gunning was the wide-awake partner in
those obscure days in tumble-down Castle
Coote. Seton Valentine lays a tributary
ink-drop on the tomb of this managing mo-
ther. Her courage in scraping together
her slender resources, and taking her young
and lovely daughters across to London, was
one of the Society sensations of 1751. As
everyone knows, Elizabeth married the Duke
of Hamilton with the brass ring of an ad-
jacent curtain, and had the audacity to go
on turning heads till she was considerably
over 50. Maria acquired the Coventry
coronet. The late Mr. Plunkett’s grand-
mother is said to have been a member of this
Gunning family.
A gorgeous flower-trimmed ball was given
last week by the Arthur Allens, at Carrara,
Rose Bay, to introduce their daughter Joyce
to the world of chiffons. It was a brilliant
reply to the pessimist’s plaint, that modern
Society always dines in public restaurants,
and dances in hired halls. The homeless
rich are beginning to rediscover their own
bricks and mortar.
Miss Hope Lamb, who “came out” at the
Carrara ball, is a daughter of Mr. Harry
Lamb, who cultivates the home-grown in-
dustry of wool up Glen Innes way. She is
a dark-haired young witch, with more than
her fair share of good looks. For two gen-
erations womenkind in the Lamb family
have been joyfully copyrighting complexions
that won’t wash off.
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McCarthy’s young
daughter was another Society first nighter
at the Allens’ ball. She’s in the brunette
beauty line, too, and, like Miss Hope Lamb,
gave the belles of older growth occasion to
have a heart-to-heart talk with their own
attractions. Carrara, by the way, belongs
to the Allen family. It is one of the older
and best-built mansions of Sydney’s habitu-
ally-rich. The Garvans, who rent it, are at
present overhauling Europe’s capital cities
for new sensations and traveller’s lore. The
Hoskins, long ago, spilt a good deal of money
in the upkeep of this Rose Bay residence,
which adds a magnificent bird’s-eye view of
Sydney’s much-advertised water-front to its
other gilt-edged charms.
No hostess who hopes to get her enter-
tainments talked about is likely to hanker
again for artificial flowers to bloom on her
ballroom walls. The beauty of the Arthur
Allen floral display, at the recent gathering,
and the good taste of roses and smilax, which
had the decency to die in secret, after the
first blush of dawn, scored a triumph for
the florist responsible.
A juvenile engagement has its headquar-
ters at Orme, Darling Point. He is Perci-
val Davenport, one of Mr. Frank Daven-
port’s two tall sons. She is Miss Maud
Friend, a slip of a girl, catalogued on the
domestic hearth as “little brick.” Percival
is a medical student. He has apparently
found a few spare moments to tear his
thoughts away from a stony-hearted Senate.
The calming effect of buying an engagement
ring for a nice girl is an undergrad.’s best
recipe for keeping his head cool when heated
remarks career round the Coinmem. door-
mat.
Mr. Horace Muston, who married Miss
Brenda Wilson at Mosraan the other even-
ing^—daylight weddings being on the wane—
is connected with the really-reliable brand
of N.S.W. Bulls, who have been in mercan-
tile pursuits here for about half a century.
Mr. Muston was supported in his cheerful
pilgrimage to the altar by two of the Bull
family, and a noble rally of the name, in-
cluding Mr. and Mrs. John Bull, Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Bull, and Mr. and Mrs. F. R.
Bull, lined up at the wedding guest-parade
in Mosman’s Town Hall.
A Sydney girl, the daughter of Henry
Moses, is alleged (by the Oldest Inhabitant)
to have married a baronet who finishes up
his name with D.S.O. He caught the last
complaint in the S’African squabble. Horace
Westropp McMahon is the man. He is a
nephew of the late Speaker McMahon, of
the Leg. Assembly, Victoria. Uncle
McMahon was formerly a captain in the
Tenth Hussars. He arrived in Melbourne
in the ’so’s, and followed the drab occupa-
tion of Commissioner of Police, a homely
billet after the gay Hussar lady-killing busi-
ness. The Religious Editor says that the
beautiful Hussar, in the ’4o’s, who didn’t
run away with his colonel’s wife (or try to)
was unmindful of the duty he owed to good
society.
The Arts and Crafts Society recently had
a meeting to assure itself that it is still very
much alive. Mildred Creed, Mary Makin-
son and Berenice Edwell are amongst its
members who were notable for their clever
designs at the Girls’ Exhibition. Miss
Creed’s beaten copper, set with great eyes
of green and blue enamel, is early-Egyptian
in effect. Ra, the sun god, could have
worn such ornaments at Sunday services in
Theban palm groves.
The management of Prince Alfred Hospi-
tal is prepared to shed scones and musical
items on the necks of those who took an
able-bodied part in recent All Nations’ Fair.
This joyous bubble of gratitude will burst
in the Town Plall on Friday.
“Jack and the Beanstalk” arrests the pub-
lic attention at Her Majesty’s. A refresh-
ing change from the type of purple-nosed fe-
male usually laid on to pantomimes by the
light-weight comedian is supplied by Mr.
Neil Kenyon. He has a Percy Grainger
smile, a corn-colored plaster of hair, and a
speckled taste in millinery. Kenyon turns on a
genuine Scottish over-time accent that whis-
tles like a shriek from the bagpipes. A
tired old world is liable to retract its rudest
remarks about pantomime plots when Dame
Trot Kenyon does the washing and dis-
courses on domestic life.
The Girl Scout had better see the smart
military chorus in “Jack and the Bean-
stalk.” After that, she ought to go home
and rearrange her present warlike costume
by putting it under the wash-house copper.
It might set the fire going on Monday morn-
ing, but that is the only kind of blaze it is
likely to achieve. If it be necessary for the
peace of this continent to dress the telescopic
limbs of growing girls in military upholstery,
something smarter than sloppy-looking
skirts and mongrel blouses might be dis-
covered by taking an inventory of panto-
mime warriors.
The short evening skirt, now careering
round Sydney ballrooms, is more useful
than beautiful. No man can put his foot in
its hem. Spurs, which occasionally garnish
the variegated pursuit of two-step time
when uniforms are flying across a polished
floor, used to worry through a good many
yards of silk and lace. In spite of these
drawbacks, the trailing nuisance of long
draperies was better to look at than thick
ankles.
The matinee hat, according to Treves, the
famous English surgeon, comes from Lake
Victoria Nyanza, where the Smart Set wears
nothing else. (Treves published a book
about a holiday trip to Uganda some few
months back.) The Kavirondo dandy, who
is very chic, begins and ends his toilet with
a huge head-piece trimmed with flowers and
feathers. The latest models are quite 3ft.
high. The Kavirondo belle, like most col-
ored ladies, has the dull occupation of being
merely a foil to her splendid lord, and goes
to fashionable bone-feasts clad in a blue-bead
necklace.
Miss Marie Stuart, now taking a small
part at the Adelphi, is an English actress,
who formerly played under Beerbolim Tree’s
management, and wife of Mr. 11. W. Varna.
Marie had the misfortune to introduce her-
self to a Sydney tram, by coming down to
earth while the car moved on. An injured
ankle is her memento of this heartless con-
duct on the part of N.S.W. rolling-stock.
Her brief appearance on the stage is another
tearful aftermath. Her original and im-
portant place in George Marlow’s co.
sprained its engagement in consequence of
the unlucky ankle accident. However, Miss
Stuart thinks that Mr. Marlow is made of
much better stuff than a city tram line.
11. B. Irving, who opens here on June 24,
is noted for his special brand of hat. There
is no other in London like it. Another
mummer, now in Sydney, thinks that the
Australian boy won’t stand the millinery,
but will follow a.nd pelt it with rude re-
marks.
The silk-worm industry is spinning its
way into the affections of women in this
State. A N.S.W. branch of the Queensland
Society has now gathered itself together in
Sydney. The Minister for Agriculture has
taken the cocoon under his official wing; and
Under-Secretary Anderson turns a friendly
countenance to the boom in mulberry leaves.
When this reaches you on Thursday morning
the N.S.W. Wormeries will be taking the
cold chill off their new regulations, by
meeting in the Botanic Gardens. Each lady
will wear a mulberry leaf and other drapery.
Miss Nisbitt is hon. sec. during the first
wriggles of the infantine Silk Society.
Mrs. Forrest, a Queensland scribe and
writer of dainty' verse, is at present con-
cealing herself somewhere in this city.
J. T. Donovan, who has personally in-
quired into the vocal chords of visiting stars
for a longer period of hard labor than
most musical critics here, was married the
other day to Miss Nellie Dwyer. Mr. Dono-
van used to be a melodious singer of note.
He has always been a confirmed student of
matters musical, and now wields an informa-
tive pen on the Sunday Times.
Edith Ralph has been getting her hair
pulled for some of her remarks about this
continent. She calls her book “Australia,”
and swishes her skirts round Captain Cook
and other early trippers to these shores. The
British Australasian has hurled a pebble
at Miss Ralph for mentioning the Austra-
lian native cherry as “a tiny fruit with the
stone outside.” It says there’s no native-
born cherry. It’s a good old bush tradition,
anyhow, and it used to be followed by a
dose of castor-oil.
“Old” girls of the Clergy Daughters’ School
mingled rainbow-cake and reminiscences in
a tea-party to their former Principal, Miss
Helen Phillips. This jamboree occurred in
the chaste precincts of the Victoria Club.
Mrs. It. Mackinnon allowed flier thoughts to
stray from the political situation, and vigor-
ously supported the old-girl demonstration.
Miss Phillips intends to retaliate by open-
ing a Pedlar’s Fair, in the school premises,
on Friday. This will incite a flow of cash
towards the beginning of a school library.
Every old-girl has sworn by the beard of
Lindley Murray, or the braids of St. Cather-
ine, to contribute a book to the Pedlar’s
Fair.
The Photographic Society’s Show closed
with a satisfactory click. The list of awards
included two medals and a certificate of
merit to Lionel Lindsay. Arthur H. Adams
carried off two flattering documents; N. C.
Deck (N.S.W.) was laden with a medal and
a cab-load of certificates; and E. Edwards
(N.S.W.), Gustav Feil (M.L.), E. C.
Joshua (Vic.), and L. L. Raymond
(N.S.W.) are also certificated fiends. J.
Temple Stephens (Vic.) snared a plaque for
his fine photograph, “The Sandhills of Peter-
borough.”
Apropos of the descent of Longstaff on
this town, do you know the square-inch
value of notable pictures? Maurice Brock-
well, who seems to have a dazzling head for
figures, has treated the Old Masters like a
problem in algebra, and worked them out to
a shilling. Holbein’s portrait of Christina,
Duchess of Milan, is estimated at the tidy
sum of £37 10s. per square inch. The Marl-
borough family got a mere £70,00 for
Raphael’s “Ansidei Madonna,” in 1885.
This is said to have worked out at a paltry
£l4 18s. per square inch. The Churchill
family, ivho have smart business ways, must
have bitten their thumb-nails over this sacri-
fice. When the picture had been sold, Sir
Frederic Burton, one of the British National
Gallery directors, cruelly remarked, “It was
worth 110,000 guineas.”
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


The Cynosure of All E-yes.
The Kabo Girl
M I
■
£
Si
©ll
1
f
e
1
s.;
Mwvmetjk
HAVE NO BRASS EYELETS
MAKE HAPPY FIGURES. AMERICA'S LATEST PRODUCTION.
GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY RUST-PROOF.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR SYSTEM OF LOOP-LACING.
LIGHT, COOL and COMFORTABLE. & OF ALL LEADING DRAPERS.
Half a Million Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall Series” of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price 1/- Each. Post Free, 1/3.
THE DASHWOODS.
By STEELE RUDD. With 15 full-page illustrations by CLAUDE MAKQUET.
Price l/= Postage 3d.
When the Dash woods visit the city the fun begins, for Old John and Young Peter seem
incapable of keeping out of mischief, and manage somehow to entangle the whole family in
their ludicrous escapades, until Mother and the girls begin to long for home. For pure merri-
ment and good humor the author has never written anything better than “The Dashwoods,”
which is sure to prove a favorite.
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer.
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD. With four half-tone illustra-
tions by PERCY F. SPENCE. Price 1/- Postage 3d.
The mining expert sent out by the syndicate to see if
the mine under offer is “salted” or otherwise, has often to pit
his wits against the low cunning of underground engineers, and
is not always successful.
He must be as observant as Sherlock Holmes, as wary as a
tiger and as brave as a lion, for, when baulked, the vendors are
apt to become dangerous.
Mr. Bedford has intimate knowledge of the things whereof
he writes and the power to depict situations and sketch character
in a most masterly manner.
The cases cited here are both thrilling and amusing.
dsf
iy-i s
THAT DROLL LADY
O? . E .
SPEN
THAT DROLL LADY.
By THOS. E. SPENCER, author of “How McDouall
Topped the Score,” “The Surprising Adventures of Mrs.
Bridget McSweeney,” etc. With 13 full-page illustrations
by Marquet. Price, 1/- Postage 3d.
As Mrs. Bridget McSweeney is the droll lady referred to,
the reader may rest assured that he will get full value for his
money, for our genial Irish friend is funnier than ever. Her
further adventures are brimful of delightful humor, and lend
themselves to lovers of good readings or recitations. As a health-
ful tonic, Bridget is irresistible. Don’t hesitate about seeking
an introduction to her. You’ll never regret it.
DAN KELLY—OUTLAW.
Being the Memoirs of Daniel Kelly (brother of Ned Kelly, leader of the Kelly Gang). Edited
by AMBROSE PRATT. With four full-page illustrations by Percy Spence.
Price, i/- Postage Id.
In the whole history of Australian bushranging no gang was more notorious than that cap-
tained by Ned Kelly. Various accounts of the doings of this gang have appeared, but none
bears the hall-mark of truth so pointedly as these leaves from a dead man’s diary, as edited by
Mr. Pratt, who has presented the story so convincingly that, for tense interest and exciting
events, has few, if any, equals.
Dan Kelly was the only member of the gang who escaped the clutches of the law, and his
account of the last stand at Glenrowan is a veritable human document.
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 476 George St., Sydney.
And all
Branches and
Booksellers.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
m
JEWELLERS
DIAMOND and GEM ORNAMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
'
'
W/
i- >
vm
Illustrated
Catalogue
gsdf
Selections of
Goods
Forwarded
on Approval.
L
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
INSPECTION INVITED.
London Address:
19 Charterhouse Street
Holborn Circus, E.C.
118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE


DELAY IS DANGEROUS.
There is no class of ailment that affects the
system quicker than bowel complaints, and any
delay in treating diarrhoea Or colic is dangerous.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy is the only remedy that is absolutely
reliable in cases of this kind, and as some member
of the family is always liable to an attack at any
time it should always be kept in the house. *
-=r
■ 'T-
» <S <n
f vp.d;)
“ EVERY
WOMAN
KNOWS!’
That the only way
to secure the
happiest effects In
figure and dress is
to make sure of the
foundation being truly artistic, scientific,
hygienic. The winsome new models in
tne famous French
Royal
“P.D”
Rustless Corsets
are, as every woman knows, so strictly
designed on these principles that they are
indispensable to all women who desire the
highest standard of excellence—either in
figure formation or attractive dress
effect. Royal “P.D.” Rustless Corsets are
famous for reliability, pliability, durability.
All Drapers are now busy showing and
selling the new models !
TRADE
ET
MARK.
HAYWARD’S
Costumes S Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
325 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling’s.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 8, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Caulfield, on Saturday, drew a comfortable
crowd of race-goers, mostly of the motored classes.
Governor Carmichael and his Lady made it their
farewell visit to the V.A.T.C., so the stewards
tendered them a cosy farewell luncheon decor-
ated with roses grown on the premises.
Ihe rose bushes had a show on their own over
the fences of the Petrol paddock, and the vice-
regal pen on the stand was almost hidden beneath
beautiful blooms. The Carmichaels duetted in
grey—Lady Carmichael in iron grey_and lace, and
his Ex. in pepper and salt. A niece muffled regal
ermine round her white-cloth togs.
Mrs. Reggie Power floated about in an absinthe-
colored frock of ninon-veiled crepe and a cape of
manyitailed fur. Tall Vera Clarke, in an all-grey
turp-out, matched the Carmichaels nicely. Mrs.
Alan Currie’s hat demanded notice. It was built
of black velvet, covered about an acre and a-half,
and had as trimming ' a royal , blue feather.
None of the fashionables wore any hair visible
to the naked eye. Nowadays your looks must
be plastered, flattened and tucked away out
of sight. It is hard lines on the woman.who
possesses hair worth showing. Mrs. Ryan, who
was with Amy Castles, had her beautiful corn-
colored glory concealed under' a fashionable
granny. Mrs. Roberts, the niece of our home-
grown Countess of Darnley, has Titian locks which
have been pictured by artist Fox on several can-
vases. And, of course, in accordance with Fashion’s
decree, she tucked them away under a perfect
duck of a hat that sat down firmly on her head
and extended its wings over her ears. To' be
fashionable, the only features necessary at the
moment are a chin (dimpled for preference),
a Cupids bow of a mouth, and the least trace of a
tip-tilted nose. Ears are not to be seen at all,
and eyes are only just visible in the shadow. The
would-be fashionable with a prominent nose prays
hard every night that the fashion may' change
soon. . .
The trailing race-dresses of yesterday are now
all packed up for the ole-clo woman. The ex-
tremely skimpy and ankle-high skirts of to-day
are more serviceable, particularly to the motored
and those who go near the snorting oil-dragons.
The carriage paddocks at Flemington and
Caulfield these times have about one pair of horses
to a couple of hundred motors. The time must
now be ripe for the re-christening of the
enclosure. Henceforward let it be the garage
No trailing gown could last long in the vicinity of
the petrol chariots. It would pick up the oil
by the tankful. The short-skirted dame and
maid trip securely over the grease-specked grass
with several inches clear between their togs and
the destructive motor trail.
The people who see to the comfortable housing
of State Governors were worried when they dis"
covered that Stonington could not contain the
Fuller household. The difficulty was overcome
by securing an adjacent villa for the children and
some of the gentlemen helps.
Departing Excellency Carmichael continues to
eat the teal-on-toast of the farewelled. The Mel-
bourne Club dined him on Saturday night, after
Caulfield, and in return he gave the haw-Club
the most Scotchy-humorous stories he could dig
up from his collection. Men declare that over-the-
table yarns are as excellent for the digestion as
a fine liqueur. There should have been no indi-
gestion that night, for Carmick is a good spinner
His stories are lengthy, ’tis true, and also mur-
mured; but they mostly reach a fine smart
ending—something usually with a surprise hidden
m the drawl.
Since Walker, London,” the first Barrie play
produced years ago by Brough and Boucicault at
the Bijou, Melbourne playgoers have seen, among
others, “The Professor’s Love Story,” “The
Little Minister,” “The Admirable Crichton ”
“Quality Street,” and “ Peter Pan.” Not one of
these could be classed as a commercial success •
nevertheless each left a sweet taste in the mouth.’
When the University Dramatic Club selected
Alice-sit-by-the-Fire for its second venture, there
was consequent rejoicing in the land, and a
crowded audience filled the Turn Yerein Hall to
witness the club’s version of the quaintly-named
thing. Stage-manager Harry Hill had drilled the
amateurs for some weeks, and the result, all told,
was a success. There were omissions of detail in
the setting—a not unimportant feature in a
Barrie play but elaborate setting means ex-
pense, and the University players are moving
cautiously.
In “Alice-sit-by-the-Fire” the schoolgirl
daughter and little son of an Anglo-Indian
colonel and his spoilt young wife meet their
exiled parents after a lapse of vears. Before the
family group get to know one another, the school-
girl daughter and her chum, who have gained a
complete knowledge of life by five attendances
at a melodrama, surprise the thoughtless
mother flirting with a young officer. To the un-
suspecting officer they allot the part of the
designing villain, and, after hearing the couple
agree to meet at his rooms, the daughter, who has
no idea that it is a family excursion and that her
father is also going, decides she must save her
innocent mother by bearding the villain and
securing from him the usual incriminating letters,
dhe reaches the officer’s rooms ahead of the rest
of the party, with a dagger concealed in her dress,
and succeeds in thoroughly mystifying the unfor-
tunate soldier, who comes to the conclusion that
she must be mad. The mother, on arrival, fears
there is something between the pair, while
the Colonel cannot make up his mind whether his
wife or his daughter is involved with his host.
Things are further complicated by the daughter’s
friend projecting herself into the limelight with a
noble offer to sacrifice herself “ even to the altar’s
mouth ” to save her friend. The title of the
play is explained in the end when, all having
been straightened out, Alice renounces the frivoli-
ties of life, and determines for the future to sit by
the fire with her children.
The women in the cast dressed their parts
artistically. Mrs. Cornish achieved an excellent
effect with an all purple turn-out. Later she wore
a pretty evening gown of Mediterranean blue
(which really might as well be Sydney Harbor
blue). Unie Russell, as her daughter Amy,
threw an evening cloak of the same exquisite
color over a white dress and pink roses.
Professor Osborne, youthful-looking and pink-
cheeked, is president of the University Dramatic
Club. He looked in at the last act only ; the
early part of the evening found him lecturing at
the Masonic Hall on the connection between cli-
mate and disease. It is his favorite subject.
“Any disease can live in Australia,” he thun-
dered. Quarantine and cleanliness have kept the
country pure ; but at any time an Amerioan or an
African or a next-door Asiatic horror may take
permanent lodging here. We started with a
pretty clean bill, and have done more in the way
of prevention than perhaps any other nation.
“Let us keep-up and increase the quarantine and
prevention methods,’’ says he. Australia, he
fears, is beginning to slacken, and suffer from
swelled head, and put the immunity from
disease down to the climate; and he thunders
his warning accordingly.
By the way, the Professor speaks of our
“ virtue as tea drinkers.” Not, he adds, that the
tea matters much, but the water-boiling does;
and we probably wouldn’t boil the water unless it
was to add the tea.
A strong local party is working for Walter Mur-
doch, lecturer in I /glish Literature at Melbourne
University, in his candidature for the Uni’s vacant
professorship of Modern Literature. But even if
an importation gets the position, the choice will
probably fall on an Australian and a graduate of
Melbourne to boot. This is Sedgfield, one of the
few Victorian graduates possessing the'Litt. D.
.degree.. This degree of Doctor of Letters, which
Melbourne alone among Australian Universities
awards, is not confined to “ literature,” but covers
practically every branch of the Arts faculty.
Sedgfield is now lecturer in Manchester Uni-
versity.
The Alfred Hospital Bazaar is over, and.all the
raffles drawn without so much as a growl from
the Law that hunts Tatt.’s from island to island.
Excited crowds watched the drawings, and the
gambling spirit was uncorked with great enthu-
siasm. Everything, from a doll apd a baby’s robe
*to a set of furniture and a motor, has been
handed over in exchange for a winning ticket.
The dining-room furniture was raffled bn penny
tickets; but the careless owner of the winning
card has not been found yet. The motor was left
as a last and crowning morsel, and the rafflers got
£2OOO in shillings for it. George McLeod is the
lucky man who will skid round in the machine.
Elorrie Young was responsible for a charity
party at Her Majesty’s last week. The lounge,
to which it had been bidden, became so packed
that the flock was let into another yard—the
dress-circle was opened, and the musical pro-:
gramme was projected at it from J. C. Wil :
liamsoh’s box. “Merry Widow” followers I
made song for the multitude or spoke a
piece. Miss Hume Black, who wails soul-
fully on a ’cello, brought, forward a string band
called the Southern Gross Orchestra, which fully
justified its existence. Someone set up as a
magician in a Marsovian-decorated corner of the
lounge, and simply coined shillings. The show
was to help the Alfred. Hospital. Nan and Betty
O’Hara, with other experienced programme
sellers, bailed up the surging crowd as it
mounted the stairs, and added to the money heap.
Opposition theatricals came along for a how-de-
do and to buy posies. . The bits of butter from
Brittany were in their most fascinating frocks.
There were others, too. Mrs. Mayoress Davey
waved big feathers above a black garb, and wore
a diamond star. The decoration had been pre-
sented to her mother, Mrs. Westley, after that
lady had been thrice Mayoress of Haw-hawthorn.
The capacity for being a Mayoress seems to run
in this family. Amy Castles, in an adorable black
velvet dress, had a welcome on her own. Mrs.
Tallis had royal blue in her black and white top.
Hostess Florrie Young wore grey, like a com-
mandeered cloud, and decked her head with a hat
that would turn heads in a crowd—a grey satin
two-decker with plumes.
The threatened £5O fine for incorrect census
statements is said to be burying Mr. Knibbs in
written confessions. Happy is the woman whose
birth is registered in a distant land. I know of
one who allowed herself a discount of three years
or so. She isn’t worrying,' because she first saw
the light in France. The not-so-young maids who
know the terrible truth is written within a mile
or two of them are mostly in a state of panic, and
have begged for mercy by post. As the poet
thoughtfully remarks: “They youth adore, but
love their money more.”
One of the sad events of last Week was the
death of the 14-year-old son of the Justice
Cussens. The Judge left some weeks back with
part of the Coronation contingent, and had just
reached England when the sorrowful news went
through. The returning boat brings him back to
Australia.
The mysterious airship has appeared again, this
time over Melbourne Cricket Ground. But even
the stories that it has been seen, decorated with
colored lights, high in the evening sky, fails to
arouse the suburbanite. The flying machine is
already commonplace. In a year or so that sweet
old appeal, “ Fly with me!” will cease to have
any matrimonial significance, and the maiden
addressed will probably retort in a snappish
manner, “Not on that dirty old ’plane you had
last week. Get something that will travel with-
out making a noise like a tin band and I will go
for a spin with you ; but I’m not going out to be
laughed at by that Smith girl again if I can help
it.”
The very latest “mysterious airship’’ alarm
reminds me of the two bushmen who saw what
they thought was a flying machine sailing majes-
tically along, and at intervals bending its planes
gracefully. -They followed it for some distance,
and were amazed to see it disintegrating in mid-
air. . The supposed machine was a flock of star-
lings flying very close together, as is, their habit.
These feathered larrikins in flight form graceful
mathematical forms ; occasionally a “push ” will
form a complete circle, which looks to the eye as
solid as a cartwheel. The aero form rhight have
been a raw experiment in a new flying formation ;
but, if raw, it deceived the bushmen and other
people who observed it from more remote points.
Curious are the freaks of mankind. Every first
night, at a Florry Young show, the observant
might have noticed amongst the “ floral tributes,”
a curious little bunch of cheap flowers, tied
up with string and freely interspersed with fern-
just the old-fashioned, tight bunch of flowers
which you buy at the Eastern Market for Is. And
every last night the same person might have spied
an old clothes-basket full of any one particular
flower—violets, when they were in season, or a
luxury of exquisite roses. The little flower-play
happens regularly ; for 15 years the same person
has sent Miss Young the same kind of shilling
bouquet on her first night and the same clothes-
basketful on her last.
A new field is to be opened up to the earnest
feminine church worker. No longer need she hem
handkerchiefs for the heathen, or embitter her
friends by pursuing them with subscription lists.
Nurseries are to be provided in or about church
buildings where Gladys and Roy will be amused
with toys and comforted with boiled lollies whilst
Mum gets some points about the Day of Judg-
ment and other approaching functions. Someone
must look after the child ; so the maiden who leans
against the kirk may put by her work basket and
learn the useful art pf entertaining the youngs
For my own part I shall miss the infant who
lightens a long and unoriginal sermon by trying to
eat his mother’s handbag, or loudly informing his
father that he should have brushed his hat before
he came out.
Will somebody please invent a masculine
equivalent of “Airs.”? One pretty little* resi-
dent of southern parts has special reason to
bemoan the lack of a matrimonial tag, so far as
man is concerned. Some months ago all her
friends were simultaneously envying and con-
gratulating her on her engagement to a fine-
looking man with money and a motor-car. The
home was given up so that she might be near her
fiance, and all was going happy as an engage-
ment ring when one day there appeared in
northern papers the wife’s advertisement for her
missing husband. Still she counts herself lucky
in escaping the worse fate of Miss Caspers, and
finding herself no-wife instead of no-fiancee.
Artist Arthur Streeton has now the cares of a
father on his easel. The new arrival is a boy.
Amy Austin, whose people own land and jum-
bucks at Lara, has married Dr. AlcKay, who has
been “assistant” at the Geelong Hospital, but
now goes north to Cairns (Q.). The wedding,
which occurred at Christ Church, Geelong, was
very quiet, and the Voice didn’t rise above a
whisper.
Mrs. O’Donnell, who died at the alleged age of
100-and-something at Maffra (Vic.), the other day,
knew more than most people about Victoria’s
earliest moments. Away back in the colony’s
infancy, almost before it even had a cradle, her
husband was book-keeper in the employ of the
first-family Hentys, at Portland.
Airs. Marshj who belongs to the Reidy clan, is
very proud of her youthful son, who has been tem-
porarily holding the official reins in New Britain
in the intervals of looking for copra. He goes to
Berlin shortly ifor a combined business-and-plea-
sure trip ; and thither his mother is to follow him,
since they cannot holiday together in Australia.
The young man is a grandson of Governor Reidy,
of the convict days.
Your Johanna has been reminded that Mrs.
Prytz, whose marriage to Harry Musgrove, the
nephew of George, was referred to last week, was
only a widow in the judicial sense.
Maud Grantham’s recital of “Alice in Wonder-
land,” in aid of the surgical ward of the Children’s'
Hospital, deservedly scored a packed house at the
. Masonic Hall., Lovers of Lewis Carroll tramped
along in battalions. Aliss. Grantham, robed in
maize satin, made a graceful figure on the plat-
form, which was set as a drawing-room, and held
her sympathetic audience all the way. Liza Leh-
mann’s nonsense songs were sung by Violet
Somerset, Franklin Thomas, Radcliffe Hawley,
and Miss Grantham herself. The Mad Tea Party
made the house rock, and a small admirer after-
wards handed up a stuffed white rabbit and a fan.
I am still wondering, though, why the Cheshire
Cat was credited with a Noo Yark twang.
Violet Somerset’s rendering of “ Speak Roughly
Lo Your Little Child” and a sneezing quartet
were the best of the musical numbers. Amongst
the audience was a.man with a huge laugh and a
blessed sense of humor who should have had his
entrance money refunded, so valuable was he as a
master of merriment. When the children were
not absorbed in Alice’s adventures, they were
shrieking with joy at the big boy’s joyous guffaw.
A Coronator, writing from Cairo, says he ‘
stayed at what was once the palace of Ismail
Pasha. It appears that should an Egyptian
prince or other royal person so far forget himself
as to die in his palace, the edifice immediately
goes out of business as such and is devoted to
meaner uses. In this case it has been trans-
formed into a gorgeous hotel, and the marble
staircases, silver baths and (shades of the time-
payment man !) gold furniture, are given over to
the cursed but remunerative unbeliever. The
same Coronator passionately mentions his laun-
dry bill, the receipt of which nearly made him
rush out and throw moth-eaten camels at the
Sphinx. For the washing of one pair of rainbow
socks the unfortunate tripper was invited to
pay ss. Hooray for Allah ! The mad infidel
who dares to ask old dusty Egypt to attend to his
hosiery bites the dust of the insolvency court
before the mad charges of the dervish !
Amy Castles met an earthquake while she was
in Alaoriland. She was concerting at Napier, and
was in the middle of a crooning love song when
the North Island was so moved that it tried to
bring down the house. The accompanist fled the
platform, and there was a jumble amongst the
rushing audience. Amy, who is unacquainted |
with earth tremors, did not know what '
the trouble was, and stood amazed at the
sudden confusion. A few nights later another <
’quake shook the hotel, and the beds rocked
like cradles. The singer is Sadly looking forward to
her departure from the Commonwealth in a week or
two. The Castles family loves Australia, and Mrs.
Castles is for ever bewailing the world-wanderings
of her children, and longing to have them all under
one roof again. It is the penalty of rearing a nest
of songbirds. Brother George, with “The
“Merry Widow” and D. B. O’Connor, is doing
well in the country parts of N.S. W. ; Dolly is too
tied up with engagements in London to slip
away for a while ; and Eileen comes to warble
with the Melba Grand Opera Co.
The independence of the modern bachelor-girl
amazes and shocks the gra-ndmothers-of the race ;
but, of course, the world progresses only by amaz-
ing and shocking its, grandmother. Gwladys
Chirnside, soon after her mother’s second mar-
riage, set off on a world tour, lived for some time
in a London flat, and thfen'made'for her Southern
homeland. She is now cosily settled in a flat at
South Yarra, which is a much better way of
living than being one of a crowd in a boarding-
mansion. Another girl who prefers a place of
her own to the feverish existence of a paying
guestery is May Parker, the very young heiress of
dead shipping magnate Parker. She has a whole
South Yarra house to herself, commands a staff
of maids, and keeps a motor-car or two.
The St. Kilda Bachelors, to the number of about
20, are to give a dance in the immense local Town
Hall on June 2. Invitations are just fluttering
out, and the girls are now engaged plotting out
frocks. The occasion is too important for second-
best chiffons. The eligibles are expected to be
there in great numbers, and she who is not pre-
pared to dress to the nines had better stay at
home. The leading instigator of the function is
Joe Gunn, private secretary to the woolly Fair-
bairn Brothers. The invitation cards are a dream
| n themselves. They present a reflective young
bachelor seated in a lounge chair, with a bowl of
roses at his beautiful feet, blowing smoke-faces of
pretty girls.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Certain globe-trotters have accused us of owning one
of the “ most efficient tramway services in the world.” But
even these sayers of polite nothings have not cracked up
our railways to any extent. Adelaide’s average sub-
urban train possesses the speed capacity of a steam-roller
or thereabouts. The sight of the Glenelg train strolling
casually down our main thoroughfare (what time the
guard tolls a cow-bell to warn stray dogs off the line)
suggests the back ages of steam traction. A traveller
was puzzled recently by the steam hearse’s sudden halt
in mid-street. “ Hadn’t we better get along to the
station '?” he queried, eyeing his watch. He was told it
was the station, and his guide indicated the pigeon-hole
whence tickets are distributed. Even then he wasn’t
satisfied, and prattled of “going through to the plat-
form.” When he did grasp the true inwardness of the
situation his face was a study. “ Good Heaven ! Does the
darned thing run in the gutter ? ” Yet, when a change was
suggested Glenelgites waxed hysteric and wrote columns
to both dailies ; they dreaded the idea of a possible addi-
tional 20 yards’ walk to their offices.
Both town and country are gasping for rain and a
smack of seasonable cold. The earth is baked to bricks
everywhere. Nevertheless the 'chrysanthemum show
was a success. The blooms were huge, and wonderful as
to color. One of the best features of this village is its
love of flowers. In spring and autumn the smallest sub-
urban gardens are a blaze, and it is a very back-alley
cottage that doesn’t boast some show of vegetation.
On Saturday the supporters of the rival Beds and Blues
ranged themselves in solid massesjat the Oval, and yelled
themselves hoarse over contesting “Saints” and
The former came out on top with a good
margin to spare. The presence of Lady Bosanquet lent
the necessary “tone” to the proceedings, though, to do
him justice, the average schoolboy doesn’t give tuppence
for “tone,” and our Admiral takes an interest in the
youngsters’ performances because he really likes to.
The “ Gay Gordons ” who were hurt in a motor smash
have been released from the North Adelaide Hospital,
whole but still shaky. There are rumors of an aftermath
for the tramway contractor into whose excavation the
car dived.
Since Swanport rose to suddeti fame by discovering
itself as an ancient deposit for ithe bones of defunct
blacks, suburban Fulham has put in a similar plea for
notoriety. It may be taken for granted that anyone who
discovers an old beef bone in his back yard will, for the
next six months, send frantically for the authorities to
come and view his allotment of aboriginal cemetery.
The Lyric Club rang up its 1911 curtain on Wednesday
night, and distributed coffee and cjake to an accompani-
ment of songs and recitations. Mr. Conrad, the new
secretary, made his first appearance at this function.
The Fire Brigades Conference has been responsible for
someiasTYr ehiarks a Bout "our big buildings. Delegates
assert that while light and ygptilation. are provided for,
iioone Has thought of danger from fire, and that in some
instances the provision for escape is practically nil. One
of our biggest blunders in this respect is the Brookman
Ilall, at the School of Mines. It’s > a big room, upstairs,
and boasts but one exit.
On Wednesday Lady Bosanquet opened a School for
Domestic Economy at' Norwood, where the young idea
will be taught such practical things as ironing shirts and
frying chops ; very necessary knowledge in these days,
and, to th-e lay mind, more useful than making lop-sided
cows and dropsical cats from clay.
Devious are the ways of the advertiser. From a
picture-show advt.: “Single Girls are informed that a
good love story often induces the young man to pop the
question after the Show. We are screening a beautiful
love story to-night ! ”
Government House launched into a dinner t’othe"
night, and the-Symons contemplate a small dance at
their Fitzroy house next-week. ’Tisn’t many who'dgive
a dance and depart for England within thespaceof three
days, but ’Siah Symon seems to have communicated
some of his energj - to his family.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


SCHWEPPES’ DRY GINGER ALE
A
4
V
n
■ >■
(VI
*><;
» Cl
\ v
.*
f*
/
m . ,i
!L. «Pi
life, i , i
•s.
O*L-M <
* >
Always Order
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale.
Avoid Substitutes
and Imitations.
Awarded
(
Grand Prix,
London, 1908.
SCHWEPPES’ CHILLIE PUNCH
A Winter Drink and a Remedy for Indigestion.
Sold by all leading Wine Merchants throughout Australia.
Wholesale price, Free on Rail Sydney or Melbourne, in 2 Dozen Cases, perdoz., 10/G
Delivered Free on Rail, Brisbane, Townsville, Mackay, Rockhampton,
Cairns, Adelaide, Fremantle, Hobart or Launceston ... ... per doz., 12/-
Schweppes’ Sarsaparilla Cordial
Made from Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root prepared in accordance with the
British Pharmacopoeia.
i
Wholesale Price, per dozen, 18J-
Purveyors of Mineral Waters by Special Appointment to His Majesty the King'.
Head Office : 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World.


A.N.A. Secretary writes:
“It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in=
dustries. 1 shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
A SYDNEY MOTHER’S EXPERIENCE.
“I really cannot let the opportunity pass with-
out telling about the good done my little son by
using Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,” says Mrs.
H. Silks, of 29 Dowling Street, Camperdown,
Sydney. “He had a very severe cold. The
doctor gave me medicine for him, but it did him
no good. I was recommended to try Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy, and before a small bottle
was half finished he was as well as ever.”*
A Reliable Remedy.
Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions
and irritations of the skin, eczema, pimples, sores,
chilblains, chapped hands, sciatica, itching or
bleeding piles, cuts, burns, bruises, scalds, bad
legs, stings of insects and all kinds of inflamma-
tion. Rexona is sold only in triangular pots at
Is. Gd. and 3s.*
How to Cure
lour Rheumatism
♦
Treatment that has met with
much success.
Permanent Cures that have made
Sufferers Free from Further
Attacks.
Sufferers from Rheumatism become des-
pondent and disappointed because, attei
trying some treatment, and getting ease tor
a time, the complaint has come back witn
increased vigor. That is because the cause
of the trouble has not been driven from the
system. The only successful treatment tor
Rheumatism is one that banishes the com-
plaint completely. . ,
A great lot of cases of rheumatism have
been cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink 1 ills.
Some of them have been extremely severe
cases. The experience of these people has
been that once cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, they have stayed cured. Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills are a blood-making tonic,
whose action enables the system to expel the
Rheumatic poison through its ordinary chan-
Mrs. Elizabeth Woodcock, of Adelaide
Lane, near Ann Street, Maryborough,
Queensland, tells how she cured herself with
Dr. Williams’ rink Pills when she was
crippled with Rheumatism in the knees.
Mrs. Woodcock said: —
“Some time back I got my feet wet and
rheumatism attacked me. It was quite a
new complaint for me. The knees were the
parts affected. They swelled up very much
and the skin and flesh were soft and doughy,
so that you could dent the flesh with your
finger. The pain was just as if something
was gripping every nerve and muscle in each
knee. I could not bend my knees at all,
they were so stiff; for a fortnight I had to
lie on the couch; the pain would come and
go and take me under the knees. I had to
get in help for the house. I could not do a
thing for weeks, I was in such dreadful pain,
and could at the best only limp from room
to room. I would be afraid for anyone to
touch the parts. I put on some leaves of
the wild aloe and found a little ease for the
time being, but some days the pain would be
almost more than I could bear. The right
knee was the first one attacked and ached
more than the other. I felt out of sorts for
a fortnight before the pain made itself felt,
but I always had been so active I would not
give in till I was forced to. At last my
son persuaded me to give Dr. Williams’
r ink Pills a trial. Two boxes were of the
greatest service, slowly the pain and stiffness
wore away, and my general health was < im-
proved wonderfully also, for I feel ever so
much brighter. The dreadful pains and
inconvenience I have suffered I can t for-
get in a hurry. I have not a trace of Rheu-
matism now.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by chem-
ists and storekeepers, or sent by mail, post
paid on receipt of price 2s. 9d. per box, six
boxes 15s. 3d., by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
IkaPTCIRE
D enyer’s
Special Elas-
ti c Truss
permits phys-
ical work or
sport in
safety and
comfort. No
irrita t i n tr
springs. We
fit you ex-
actly.
O E NY E R
©
17/6 Single,
22/6 Double
Call or write.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Beits,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hutiler St.), SYDNEY ;
ixnd at Melbourne, cr. of Swanston & T.onsdale Sis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
On Referendum Day, the rulers supplied
to the poll clerks at Broken Hill—and, pre-
sumably, to the poll clerks elsewhere —were
branded “Made in Japan.” And this at a
poll supposed to be conducted by a Govern-
ment which was pleading for the ascendency
of Australia! There are a lot of things
that Federal Ministers might speak earn-
estly to Kink O’Malley about Avith regard to
the conduct of that ballot.
SAVED!
THE RECUMCBENT BEAT : “ Tell you what,
Slouch, if the ‘ Yesses ’ had won 1D have
left the country!”
South Australia has had a Labor Premier
and a wholly or mostly-Labor Government
longer than any other State in the world,
so far as The Bulletin knows. And, in-
stead of the promised devastation and ruin,
it has within one week supplied these two
proofs, from opposite ends of the scale, of
abounding prosperity: (1) The Bank of
Adelaide pays 10 per cent., and increases
all its clerks’ salaries ; and the usually mat-
ter-of-fact George Downer, chairman of di-
rectors, quotes with approval the remark of
some person unnamed that “the reports of
the bank read like fairy-tales.” (2) An
old and hard-working charity, the Eastern
Suburban Clothing Guild, has formally de-
clared itself dead. It can’t find any poor
to befriend !
The busy man entirely during the Refer-
endum campaign wasn’t Hugh Mahon,
M H.R. for Coolgardie. On Eight Hours
Day Mahon was in Melbourne, not
in Coolgardie. But Avhere\ r er lie was,
the ex-Minister was as enthusiastic on
behalf of Labor as a lump of frozen beef,
and as \ociferous on the platform as a dumb
Avaiter. The grumps are no good whatever
to Australia; wherefore, Mahon must get a
move on —or out.
One of the features of the Referendum
excitement in Kooyong electorate (Vic.) was
the reappearance in public, after an interval
of years, of the one-horse shay which Knox,
ex-M.H.R., bought when he first struck car-
riage form. All the Nicest’s. motor-cars
were, of course, pressed into service, but, lest
the motor-cars wouldn’t go round, the old
family-waggon was sent out to scour ivoo-
yong —in the interests, no doubt, ot Mount
Lyell manures and the poor farmer.
The other day Beeby, Minister for Labor
in the Ma State Government, was asked by
a deputation from the employees in the mill-
ing trades to insert a clause In Ins new Ar-
bitration Bill to prohibit any employer re-
ducing the number of Ins employees in the
event of a rise in wages ordered by the Corn t
or Wages Board. Nothing was said by the
deputation about a clause to prevent em-
ployees leaving in the event of,, wages
being reduced, so Beeby pained the
deputation in the mildest way he could, and
told it to get hence.
No apologies have so far been made to
Andrew Fisher, or to the Commonwealth
Government, by those who cackled so in-
sultingly at the Prime Minister s absurdly
low” land-tax estimate of one million soys.
The Federal land-tax commissioner, who
has just spoken on the matter after receiv-
ing the returns, says that the tax for IJIU-
*II will bring a revenue of about a million,
and the newspapers which sneered at r isher
studiously refrain from making any remarks
which might be taken as a compliment to
Fisher’s judgment or a recognition or the
financial ability and judgment ot the Labor
party. Fair play has been frozen out of the
columns of the Tory press.
Just uoav, Victorian fruit-growers are
chinking hard that everything is not alto-
gether right with Private Enterprise. There
lias been a good apple and pear season, but
prices realised by the growers from the
Avholsale agents have to be subsidised to
buy even one drink all round. According to
the agents, first-class apples average only
about Is. Gd. per case and pears Is. per case ;
and from that various charges have to be
deducted and freight and the cases them-
selves paid for. On-the other hand, the
consumer pays about 10s. a case tor the
fruit, and he wants to know what the coun-
try is coming to. It’s time that he learned
that the country isn’t coming to anything—
anyway, not voluntarily. When lat cries,
“Yo-ho, no-no!” the consuming ass pushes it.
A little business man,
struggling to get a
footing, and deadly
afraid that a “Yes”
vote would rob him
of the chances of de-
veloping into a re-
spected Fat Man, got
a practical example of
Monopoly the day af-
ter the Referenda poll-
ing. A representative
of the Monopoly con-
trolling his power-sup-
ply called with a pair
of tweezers and a bill
for £2. In the event
of spot cash not being
produced, he was to
use the tweezers, cut
off the supply, and
stop the little man’s
machinery. The Mon-
opoly had received
some hundreds of
pounds for past tran-
sactions from the lit-
tle man, and he had
naturally expected a
demand for an over-
looked £2 to come in a
politer form than a
pair of tweezers. He
is wondering now : (1)
what would have hap-
pened to his machin-
ery if he had been out
when the man with
the tweezers called:
(2) whether he voted
“No” just to give Mon-
opoly a chance to dis-
organise his business ;
(3) whether he, not
being a monopoly,
would be shot, stabbed, or merely sent to a
lunatic asylum if he called on all creditors
who owed him £2; (4) whether in voting
“No” in favor of Monopolies, he was men-
tally deranged, or just plain mad.
Only rarely does an R.C. priest do as the
Wowsers do; but Father Nolan, of Colac
(Vic.), lately rose to the sublime heights
where Willie Judkins roams. “The Federal
Government talks Socialism,” said Father
Nolan. “Give these gentry an inch, and
they will take an ell. It may be well to
consider if the aforesaid Socialism will not
end in nationalising the wives and daugh-
ters of this country.” Of course, and it may
be well to consider if the enfranchisement or
women won’t lead to the nationalisation of
the husbands and sons of this country, You
never know your luck. Anyhow, if the
fathers and sons of this country can t be
trusted to give the wives and daughters a
fair deal under one form of government,
why should, they be expected to be particu-
larly lenient and loving under another
form? Forms of government express a
people’s moral and social attitude —they
don’t dictate it.
The Argus sniffles: “Evidently the Act-
ing-Prime Minister has no respect for the
country’s emphatic declaration against con-
stitution-wrecking.” To Avliich Hughes’s
unprinted reply is, “Oh, blow your Noes!”
THE VICTORY OF THE BACK-YARD
PARTY.
Holman, Acting-Premier of N.S.W., is
asking the other Stales to “voluntarily sur-
render” certain powers to the Commonwealth,
What powers? Less powers than the Com-
monwealth asked for, and which Holman
helped to prevent the Commonwealth get-
ting? If so, Holman needn’t bother —less
powers are no good to the Commonwealth.
The same powers? If so, who authorised
Holman to “voluntarily surrender,” on be-
half of N.S.W., what N.S.W. itself deliber-
ately refused to “voluntarily surrender” only
a fortnight ago In fact, who authorised
Holman to “voluntarily surrender” any-
thing?
The ice-producers of Adelaide are howling
at the Government for selling ice at 20 per
cent, less than current Private Enterprise
rates, and throwing in some free, storage into
the bargain. The earnestness with which the
Government proceeded to show that it was
all a horrible lie is distressing. The purpose
of State enterprise in a case of this sort is
to provide hundreds or thousands of people
with a necessary at cost price. And if the
State can’t supply the goods at less than
Private Enterprise’s price, or of better qual-
ity, there is really no reason why the State
should go into that particular business at
all —not, anyhow, until it has dealt with a
good many others.
An Adelaide Tory daily made a mistake
the other day—that is, it looked like a mis-
take. In one column were black headings
full of triumph for the . defeat of the Re-
ferenda proposals, and right alongside were
the less conspicuous headings —“Italian fruit
ring; enormous profits in Sydney.’ I he
first column expressed delight that power to
deal with combines had been refused to the
Commonwealth Government; the second
complained that, •though apples in Sydney
had been forced up to as much as od. apiece
by a Dago combine, South Australian
growers could find no market there.
The Sydney “Liberal” papers have lately
been aghast at the idea of the Senate being
given a larger say in industrial legislation
—this Senate in which Tasmania and New
South Wales are equally represented! Hav-
ing managed to defeat that proposal, the
“Liberal” reformers may now be expected
to look closer home. Nobbs, the “Liberal”
Whip, for instance, sits for a district whose
voting strength last October was less than
one-lialf that of Northumberland, which is
represented by a Labor member. The Whip
of the “Liberals” may therefore now be re-
lied upon to round up his party in order to
wipe out the anomaly by which he has a
seat in the House at all.
Along with the misleading No No ballot-
paper. which the “Liberal” crowd advertised
all through the country press, it sent out
slabs of reading matter to be printed along
with the advt. Most of the hungry country
papers swallowed what independence they
have, and printed the screed. When it came
to the turn of the Richmond River Times
(N.S.W.), that sturdy little paper got it
half-wav down, and there it stuck. So the
whole discreditable business was given away
by the publication of this “note” at the foot
of the “reading matter” supplied with the
advt.: —
The above is not given as our view on the subject,
but is published in conjunction with a paid advt.
The Cow man is a strange, unreasoning
animal. The Alstonville (N.S.W.) Agricul-
tural Society on April 25 printed this in
its annual report:—
During the year the tick question was discussed,
and the committee decided to ask the Federal Gov-
ernment to take over the control of the question.
The recent appearance of tick in the district has
given increased prominence to the matter.
Having thus decided that State control was
a failure and a fraud, Alstonville next day
had a chance to increase the power of the
Commonwealth. But, instead of voting to
strengthen the hands of the Federal au-
thority, so that it might do such things as
Alstonville wants it to do, the Referendum
there showed: —-Yes, 100; Noes, 550. On
the same principle, no doubt, when an Al-
stonville cow-cocky wants an extra-big
month’s cheque, he sends an extra-small
quantity of cream to the factory.
It transpires that the “wireless” message
of triumph sent to Deakin by the troupe ot
political Coronators was mutilated _ in trans-
mission. For “Well done, Australia. l’ead
“We’ve done Australia 1”
The boycott was freely called in to help
the Anti-Australian crowd in the Referenda
campaign. In one A T illage in \\ lse s
Gappsland (Vic.) electorate, there
was a good Australian saddler who
shouted “Yes” at the top of his
voice. After a meeting of the
“People’s” party, delegates were
sent out to introduce Right Think-
ing opposition. After much re-
search a man Avas found willing to
establish anew business, and all
went well even to the renting of a
shop. At this stage the new man
was discovered to be a pronounced
Laborite, with more dreadful views
on some matters than the other
man. They are huntins' now for a
bloated-capitalist saddler; but
bloated-capitalist collar-patchers
seem scarce.
According to a correspondent,
whose name ought to be good
enough, the N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment has strange ways of helping
along closer settlement after the
Commonwealth progressive land-tax
has given it a start. The owners
of a Southern estate thought it
Avas time to get in out of the wet,
so they sold to a man who was in
the subdivision business. For the
purpose of selling the subdivisions
lie required copies of the Govern-
ment plans of two parishes:
and though he says _ he has
made frequent applications, he. is
still without the plans after nine
months’ waiting. In desperation, he has
at last written to the Minister, asking
whether a consignment of blasting powdei
would do any good.
FOR AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a song of free cigars, of free drinks, long
and short,
Of long, free rides in motor-cars, of Freedom, every
sort; iii
song of Saved Australia, lads, a rime of lovelv
drink
That helps to keep the fetters off the freeeborn—
don’t you think ?
Hooray ! I say !
Hooray—three times hooray !
Free beer and five-a-sliilling fags, free joyous motor-
car 1
We’ve hitched Australia’s way yon to a bright, brown,
boshlcy shtar !
This is a song of pinky cake, of all-for-nothing tea
Poured out, for sweet Australia’s sake, to blast the
enemy!
I sing the joy of doing good, at sixpence every time,
' Of snaring shabby votes from women busy on the
climb.
This way: “Do, pray,
Motor with me . . . to-day! ”
This is a rime of truckling dames, bouncing on
patent springs
To vote, as Duty bids them, for all sorts of shabby
things!
This is a song of “shouts” for all who love Aus-
tralia well,
A rime of those who like to crawl, a verse in which
to tell .....
A tale of hard, triumphant cash, laid out judiciously
On (gratis) drink, and smoke (no charge), and
rapid transit (free).
All’s gay to-day !
Australia goes her way
Saved from herself by tea and beer and smoke and
motor-car !
We’ve hitched Australia’s waggon to a danger-signal
star t
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


OPEN FOR USE AS COMBINATION PIANO.
We sell these instruments on easy
terms, if desired, and will taKe
your ordinary piano as part
payment at its utmost value.
r
75he
Ronisch-Claviola
Combination Piano
is an Ideal Instrument.
It will play either English, German or American 65-note
music, as well as our 73-note music.
It can be converted from a combination piano to an
ordinary piano instantaneously.
It is built with all the latest improvements, no perishable
rubber is used, the tubes are of metal, the bellows of
the very finest leather.
It is fitted with a Solo-device, which produces the melody
in a piece of music, as well as with independent
levers which subdue or accentuate either the Bass
or Treble separately as desired.
We have a handsome catalogue describing this instrument,
which we forward free on application.
W. H. PALING <a CO., LTD.,
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE
and TOOWOOMBA.
PATHE FRERES
“IDEAL” Machine Complete
Mounted on
Adjustable
Metal Legs.
Specially designed for Educational
purposes, and for use in Colleges,
Schools and Public Institutions.
o
ill
li
-I
The Adjustable Legs permit of the Machine being
quickly mounted to a convenient height.
IT IS VERY LIGHT, FIRM and COMPACT.
PRICE
£24
Less rebate of Customs duty
when used for the above
purposes. (See special by-
law under wnich the Federal
Government admits this
machine free of duty when
used solely for these
purposes.)
DESCRIPTION —
THE “IDEAL”
MACHINE
consists of
One Projector with
detachable spools.
One Lens, focus to choice.
One American Arc.
One Lantern.
One Oak Board for
mounting the
machine.
One Condenser.
One Water Tank.
Two Spools.
Iron Table.
pATHE FRERES
SYDNEY ;73 York Street (’Phone —City, 3161).
MELBOURNE : 50 Queen Street monc-ism
And Branches and Agencies in Every Capital.
F aimer’s
VICTOR
Overcoats
VICTOR” OVERCOATS are constructed
with a purpose. They are as carefully
cut as a Victor Suit, with every atten-
tion to the most minute details, and tailored
to a point of perfection hitherto confined to
made to measure overcoats.
The materials are all that can be desired ;
the patterns and shades are those approved
by the smart dressers ; and the prices—
quality and workmanship considered —are
indicative of Farmer’s Sterling Value.
I
The S.B. “ Marlborough,” as illustrated, a Smartly-Cut Coat, easy
fitting, hangs straight from the shoulder, and has a well-draped Skirt. It
is suitable either for town or country, or rainproof wear, according to the
material from which it is made. We can supply in Scotch and Irish
Tweeds, newest colors and mixtures, or Rainproof Tweeds.
Prices 355.* 405., 455., 505.,
555., 605., 655., 705., 755.
D.B. Marlborough, in Scotch or Irish Tweeds, fancy mixtures.
Prices 605., 655. and 80s.
FARMER’S, Sydney.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair. _
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.,
BUILDERS OF THE
Bristol BIPLANES
as. used throughout Australia by
MR. J. J. HAMMOND,
and also by other World-Renowned Aviators.
Sole Agents for Great Britain and Colonies for
t -c„ gnome Engines.
The British Government has Ordered Four Bristol
Biplanes.
The Russian Government has Ordered Eight
Bristol Biplanes.
For Exhibitions and Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
c/o Union Bank, Sydney.
First Quality Aerated Waters Made at 3d. per doz.
EASILY, QUICKLY, ECONOMICALLY.
THE “ BANKER,”
A Money Maker for Hotelkeepers. Easy to Buy.
£lO Deposit secures delivery with an expert to
erect same. A few pounds a month pays the balance.
PRICE FROM *25.
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO., LTD.,
167 George Street (North), SYDNEY.
Missing: Friends.
HERBERT KEARNEY.
tit ANTED, information regarding above, who left
V V Armagh (Ireland) in 1881, and was in Parramatta
in that year, and has not since heard of. Apply
Box 3411, T. B. Browne's Advertising Offices, 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London (Eng.). t
gf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
dsg
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION ,
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toijet Purposes*
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc*
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to CarpStS*
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
sdf
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LA<S€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Asrents—RlCHAßD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE
Brewery and Offices:
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTINAG
NOTIONS
The Inter-State Eights race on the Parra-
matta was a walkover for N.S.W. crew. It led from
start to finish, and won by two and a-half lengths,
paddling easily. The real race of the day was for second
place, and a gruelling one it was, too. The first
start was a failure, but the second one was as near
perfect as could be wished for. After the dip West-
ralia got going first, with Victoria a shade later,
and then, barring- Queensland, they drew level for a
moment, Queensland a canvas behind. When N.S.W.
got its lead, South Aus. went in pursuit, with Tas-
mania inches behind, and Victoria inches behind that.
For a mile these three crews were practically in a
line, battling like Trojans, and it was a thousand
. pities so fine a race was marred by the boats getting
close together till the sweeps of Victoria and Tas-
mania clashed, and the Tasmanian stroke lost part
of his blade. Victoria made a gallant attempt to
pull out and avoid the clash, but failed; and then
South Aus. and Tasmania just managed to swing
clear of one another. At the two-mile point all
three were showing signs of wear and tear, but Vic-
toria was obviously wearing the best, although Tas-
mania kept making dangerous spurts. South Aus.
was in a bad way, and steadily dropping to the rear,
till it was a length behind Tasmania, which was
about the same behind Victoria. Then Tasmania
made a fine spurt, and South Aus. flashed after it;
but the positions remained unaltered, only the dis-
tances were reduced. With half a mile to go every
crew lifted itself for one supreme effort, and after
a splendid struggle Tasmania drew level with Vic-
toria, and South Aus. maintained its position. Tas-
mania went to the front; Victoria came at it again
and again, and in the final rush got quarter of a
length in front, and sailed over the line second,
with Tasmania third, South Aus. fourth, Westralia
fifth and struggling Queensland sixth.
* * * *
The Inter-State Single Sculls was a
mediocre race over 211 miles, in which C. McVilly
represented Tasmania, J. R. Towns N.S.W., and H.
E. Stevens Victoria. McVilly, who was defending
his title, bounded away to a beautiful start. Then
Towns left Stevens, even as McVilly had left Towns.
The weights were, McVilly 12st. 61b., Towns 13st.
41b., and Stevens list. 71b. McVilly’s work was
superb. Towns, though apparently bigger and
stronger, was too elephantine, and his work was not
in the same street. Stevens was never in it. For
that matter, neither was Towns, whom the Tas-
manian held with perfect ease, and at one time led
by eight lengths. The time was 18min. 50see.
* * * *
Dick Arnst is having a new boat made,
presumably for his match with Harry Pearce, who
is waiting on the front doorstep with £lOO deposit
for a match for £5OO a-side and the championship
of the world. Arnst is understood to be awaiting the
arrival of funds from Maoriland backers before he
opens the door. And while he keeps the door shut,
Barry, of England, is clamoring' at the back step for
a match on the Thames. Richard’s reply is: “All right;
£750, and Barry can have all the gate.” .When that
arrogant reply reaches the Cold Land it is almost
certain that English sportsmen will despatch a com-
missioner to see what size Arnst takes in hats, and
if possible secure his head for the British Museum.
A man who makes terms like those certainly deserves
a place in some museum.
* * * *
Saturday’s hoofball around Melbourne
was mostly job-lines, as the shopwalker would put it.
At Prince’s Park, where Carlton was to collide
with South, a strong northerly wind spoilt play.
“Skinner’s hirelings” have not mended their manners
since last season, and charging and slinging were
freely indulged in. The Blues, on the other hand,
played a civilised, though disconcerted, game, so by
half-time South had 37 points to Carlton’s 21. Some-
one then evidently drew the Blues’ attention to the
fact that they possessed a few weighty masses of
brawn, wherefore, on resuming, the 14-stoners col-
lided with Skinner’s hirelings, and for a while things
were willing. Then the two teams realised that
there was nothing in the rough-and-tumble business,
and began to play football. Bv better marking and
cleaner handling, Carlton steadily drew level, and a
hard, determined scuffle ended in a draw—lo goals
six behinds all. Geelong conducted a genteel dis-
cussion with Melbourne, which also ended in a draw
—seven goals 12 behinds each. Collingwood visited
’Roy, and fancying that anything was good enough
for that re-organised club, piffled till half-time.
Then it woke up to its risks, settled down to system-
atic play, and finished up with seven goals seven
behinds to four goals 10 behinds. The Students en-
countered the Saints, and the Saints once more came
second —69 points to 43. The Essehdon-Richmond
game showed that thus early in the season the
yellow-and-blacks have struck the internal trouble
that spells disaster. For 15 minutes Essendon waited
patiently on the field till Richmond appeared, and
when they did do so it was only to show they might
as well have stopped off. At half-time the tale was
—’Dons, 53 points; Richmond, four! In the spell
the committee no doubt spoke harsh words to the
“players,” and in the second half the locals put on
25 points to Essendon’s 23. But of course the game
was gone long before that. If Richmond’s com-
mittee can buy, borrow or steal an axe, it is hereby
advised to do so, and use it.
The most cheerful Ass. episode was the
uprising of Footscray, which gave the victorious
North a fright, and only missed victory by two
points—s 2 to North’s 54. The rising Ports totted
up 30 points to ’Don’s 49 ; Williamstown jumped on
Preston with 98 jumps to 34 ; and Brighton scored a
win with little glory about it, by raking in 30 points
to Northcote’s 28. Also, P’ran walloped Brunswick,
in a struggle notable for an almost overwhelming
finish. At lemon-time P’ran had 71 points to
’Wick’s 27, and its barrackers were delirious. But
the brickies shut their teeth and scored, five goals
seven behinds to P’ran’s two goals. Only faulty
shooting lost them a meritorious win—’Wick, -64;
P’ran, 83 points. A few minor casualties decorated
the disturbances; and, as there is an all-round ten-
dency to go in for heavy-weights, if umpires don’t
discourage the charging tactics someone will pre-
sently get hurt.
The ruling powers in the Vic. League are
determined to have open professionalism, and if
they can’t get the statutory three-fourths majority
to compass it, the latest idea is for the six stronger
clubs to drop Melbourne, ’Varsity, ’Roy and St.
Kilda, and take in North, Brunswick, P’ran and Es-
scndon (A.). Anyhow, if the League continues the
folly of nominally upholding the “amateur” rule
while most of the clubs openly break it, and of re-
fusing to foregather with the Ass. to bring about
district football, there is a probability of a large
explosion presently.
* * * *
’Bailer A. J. Curran, one of the Ass. dele-
gates from North Melb., bogged in vigorously to the
business of reforming sub rosa professionalism, and
was the chief cause of North’s declaration for open
professionalism. The Ass. said not a word to North
for having admittedly illegally-paid players, but
passed Curran out “for all time.” Curran has been
in the local police for 15 years, and has a splendid
record; but, apparently, somebody didn’t approve of
his “reformative” actions, so when the Ass. fired him
out, his superiors notified him that they thought a
spell in the Backblocks would be advantageous to
his health. He resigned.
* * * *
Saturday in Sydney was warm for foot-
ball, and the tongues of the players hung down
on the shoulders of the opposing side in the scrums.
In League circles the principal disturbance was at
Wentworth Park, where South Sydney triumphed
over Glebe, commonly known as the Dirty Reds.
Notwithstanding the bull-like rushes of the Glebe for-
wards (conspicuous among whom were the Burge
Brothers, erst of South), the machine-like passing of
the splendid backs of the Red and Green side wore
down the opposition and landed South a winner bv
11 to seven. “Billy” Cann (no relation to either “A
William Cann” or “Jimmie Pannikin”), captain of
the South, essayed to play the roving role of Mes-
senger in the first half, and made a hash of it. He
did better in the second spell, but did not altogether
atone for the fact that he had previously mulled one
try and presented Glebe with another. Eastern Sub-
urbs, taking things easy at the Sports Ground, al-
lowed North Sydney at half-time to hold seven to 10,
and then found it had to play with the sun in its
face. Little things like that get East Sydney going,
and it pranced to such an extent that it added 12
points while North put on two. Messenger’s boot
was very busy, and accounted for no less than 10 of
the Eastern points. The Angel of Death played on
the side of Newtown against the unfortunate Western
Suburbs, and the Western men were obliterated by
25 to two. The principal feature of the Balmairi-
Annandale upheaval at Birchgrove was the stoush
dealt out by the Balmainiac forward mob, who, evi-
dently fearing they would be unable to win by fair
means, adopted the foul. Right, however, once more
triumphed, and ’Dale won through with IS points to
eight.
* * * *
The other brand of football, known as
Union Rugby, dug itself out of the ditch and opened
its competitions. Owing to the fearsome stampede
of a few weeks back, when the prominent players
seemed to bolt en masse to the League, almost every
team has undergone reconstruction, and the barracker
hardly knew where he were. Newtown, premier last
year, let itself loose on Manly, and wiped it out by
22 to six. A little less disgraceful was the dishing
served up to Eastern Suburbs at Sydney Cricket
Ground by University. This crowd, evidently dis-
appointed at not being able to run baresark through
the Sydney streets in' the morning, ran riot and
kicked up 25 on the scoring board while East labori-
ously piled up a paltry dozen. About 12 people,
fleeing from the hospital ladies with the boxes, fled
to where they could see Glebe scramble home against
North Sydney with one poor point to spare. Broken-
backed South Sydney, one of' last year’s best teams,
got trampled on by Western Suburbs by 17 to 11,
and Balmain just managed to rub out St. George by
eight to five.
* * * *
Although badly scrunched in the matter
of grounds, the Australian Leaguers bobbed up ser-
enely with three first-grade fixtures on Moore Park
for the opening of their competition. The Training Col-
lege was taken in hand by Sydney, and after having
had its nose rubbed in the dust, departed in a broken
state, the figures being 114 to 16. Newtown scored
just twice as fast as North Sydney, 64 to 32. The
most even thing on the day was Eastern Suburbs’
defeat of Paddington by 32 to 28. The match on
the enclosed ground at Erskineville was that of
Y.M.C.A. versus South Sydney. The proceedings
were more decisive than Christian, South being
donkey-licked by 86 to 30.
* * * *
The Sydney Soccer crowd fell on Newtown
at Moore Park and registered six goals to two, which
at this game is ghastly. West Sydney made a draw
with The Navy at Lyne Bark with one all, and
Balmain and Canterbury arrived at the same result
with three each. The horrible scramble between
Newtown A and Glebe B, at Ivogarah, also ended in
a draw, each side registering two each. In fact, it
was drawing day in the Soccer sphere.
Footballers are beginning to wonder if an-
other Messenger is about to appear in the person of
W. H. Graham, of Newtown League Rugby team,
whom the League has, after much hard fishing, suc-
ceeded in luring from the Union ranks. Graham
played in his old position, in the three-quarter line,
and put up a frittering performance by kicking
five. goals and registering one try. Newtown: scored
25 points in that game, and Graham was responsible
for more than half of them. He is a powerful, well-
set animal whom 26 years of hard work and play
have toughened into a solid mass of bone and
muscle.
* * * *
The briefest record in existence was prob-
ably that put up by J. S. Gulline, of the Victorian
Motor Cycle Club, who, on Melbourne Eight-Hour
Day, covered the- 100 miles in 2hr. llmin. 30sec.
from the 15min. handicap. The record stood for
about four, minutes. Then the third , man in the
race (H. Jenkins) arrived, and fractured the already-
broken record by running through in 2hr. llmin.
20see., or lOsec. less than Gulline. The previous
best was the 2hr. 25min. 45sec. of L. Benn, winner
of last year’s race. Both Gulline and Jenkins rode
Dunlop-shod Triumphs, and had to maintain an
average speed of 50 miles per hour to make up for
the slowing down when negotiating three turning
points. The course was 25 miles long, and had to be
traversed twice. It was a great speed to maintain on
an ordinary Victorian highway, although the Sydney -
ro'ad, on which the run took place, was said to be in
“fair” order. “Fair order” on a Victorian road is
what a decently-roaded community would call darned
bad.
F. White, the cyclist who tackled Birtles’s
record from Fremantle to Sydney, had a. tough time
when traversing the sandy patch between Eucla and
Fowler’s Bay. The patch, said to be not more than
30, or at most 40, miles long, had stretched out to
60, and was so difficult that White had to pad the
hoof over most of it; and, one way and another, he
calculated that he walked 100 miles after leaving
Eucla. Water was scarce right along the track, and
more than once he got lost, which wasted more valu-
able time. In addition, he had a puncture, and a
fall which twisted his back wheel and compelled him
to heave-to the best part of a day. When he arrived
at Port Augusta he was footsore; nevertheless, he
proceeded to make a series of forced rides under
light conditions to make up for the lost time.' When
he reached Adelaide, though he was two days behind
time, he was in much better spirits.
W. H. GRAHAM,
NEWTOWN
LEAGUES
NEW
SCORING
MACHINE .
There was wild hilarity at Warnngah
(Sydney) on Saturday, when N.S.W. Remonstrated
ye Ancient Game of 'Bowls to some merry men from
Ballarat (Vic.). Between whiskies and many good
yarns, the visitors were rubbed out by 31 points, or
117 to 86. The most 1 fearsome spectacle of the
flare-up was when Thorpe’s N.S.W. rink fell on that
of Trotman, with the sinful score of 40 to 14.
Redgrave, the ex-Sydneyite, did some
mighty hitting for his club, South Brisbane, against
Nundah in the final round of the Brisbane cricket
premiership. In his score of 141——he got the first
hundred of them in 40 minutes —there were 13
sixers.
Frank Tarrant, cricketer, of Melbourne
and Middlesex, conducted a slaughter in India lately.
Kashmir was playing Patiala, with the local Mahar-
ajah captaining each side, and all the players were
natives, -except that Patiala ran Tarrant into . the
team. He rattled the other side out for 98 and 124,
taking seven and six wickets himself, and hit up
261 off his own bat out of his side’s total 0f,449,
*** < *
Brisbane’s cricket premiership has been
won by. North Brisbane, which finished three points
ahead of Fortitude Valley. The batting of Jen-
. nings, the ex-South Australian, and the bowling of
McCaffrey and Barstow were the chief factors in
North’s success.
* * * *
Ever since the early part of April, the exe-
cutive. of the Cyclists’ Union has been struggling to
get to the bottom of sundry doings at the Swift
Club’s carnival at the Sydney Sports Ground; but
the gentlemen who were examined were too swift for
the executive, and last week that august body got
tired, and with a gesture of impatience ended, it.
The race over. wdiich the row took place was wiped
off, and declared no race. Officially the clock of time
was put back, and the thing that was isn’t, and,
moreover, never has been. The gentlemen who did
the bluffing overdid it, and fell in.
* * * *
If the times put up by champion Jack
Donaldson, at Deniliquin (N.S.W.), are correct
then John is a wonder, indeed. He romped in first
in the Sheffield Handicap of 130 yards in 11 3-ssec.,
and tore over the 220 yards in 20 4-ssec., starting
in both cases from the four yards mark. The times
may be correct, but like the Scottish lordling, The
average pace follower remarks, “I hae me doots!”
Some tote divvies at the South Australian
Jockey Club’s opening day: Musket Belle’s Goodwood
Handicap, £26 95.; Kalos, in the Hurdles, £l7 35.;
and Ipidi’s S.A. Stakes, £ll 2s.
“Snell”: Clarence Weber explains why
he insists that the boxer who meets him in the
mixed serim of his .own proposing, must wear a
jacket: “As in ordinary life a coat is worn, I stipu-
lated that a jacket should be used ; in self-defence a
coat would be of considerable assistance.” “Con-
siderable assistance” to the wrestler, Clarence means
of course. Might 1 suggest that it would also be
of considerable assistance to the other fellow if the
party in the coat kept his hands in the pockets?
In ordinary “all 4n” street scraps,' your opponent
does not wear gloves thickly padded with horsehair,
whereas in most cases he does tear off his coat be-
fore hurling his fore-hoof at the other fellow’s coun-
tenance. Young Mr. Weber is too ingenuous; his
artlessness in persisting in having his pug. trussed
is eloquent testimony to his great respect for boxing
as a means of self-defence.
* * * *
On Saturday night Tahmmy’s protegd,
Jack Lester, will meet Bill Lang, at Sydney Stadium.
Lester is, of course, an unknown quantity as far as
Australia is. concerned, but some of the best Yankee
judges think he has a future. Wrote 'Sam C. Austin,
a well-known authority, recently commenting on
Lester’s knock-out of Denever Ed. Martin in four
rounds: “Some time ago I saw Martin in training
and in the ring in several fights. lie was a
wonderfully clever fellow, as big and strong and
quick as Jack Johnson. Martin’s only fault was a
weak jaw. Two or three hard smashes made him go
groggy. For all that I consider Lester’s quick vic-
tory over Martin a sign of great promise. Martin,
by the way, was the big smoke who took all the fight
out of Dr. Roller, and made him come to the sudden
conclusion that he Was a wrestler and not a fighter.”
That remark about the man Lester knocked out being
as big, strong- and quick as Johnson, implies that in
Austin’s opinion Lester may be “the Hope.” How-
ever, we’ll see for ourselves on Saturday night.
Colored champion Mistah Johnson is a
busy man these days; or, if he is not busy, he is
Yankee enough to always appear so. Johnson’s colos-
sal task is to keep before tire public. The latest
break-out is the threat that, after wiping the floor
with some unknown calling himself O’Brien, and
collecting the £2060 offered for the delicate atten-
tion, he will start for the Coronation, where he has
booked “good seats.” Arthur will dispose of all his
motors, and whack £lO,OOO into a diamond tiara for
Madame Johnson to wear at the function. God save
the King! Also the Queen"!
The Frank Picato-Arthur Douglas agita-
tion at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night was not
a staggering affair, and Douglas, the South Africin,
was easily out-pointed after going the whole term.
Except during the first two and one subsequent
round, when the Boer pulled himself together and
fizzed somewhat, there was only one in it, and it was
Picato. He is anything but a pretty fighter; he
moves with elephantine motion, which on Saturday
contrasted hideously with the neat footwork of
Douglas in the opening rounds. He just bogged in,
and bogged in all the time —a sort of fighting which
does not at all seem to agree with Arthur Douglas.
Come to think of it, these fellows who just bog in
have a lot to answer for.
* * * *
Soccer football is gaining ground rapidly
in Maoriland, to the detriment of the gate receipts
of Rugby, and the cause is likely to be boosted up
considerably by the visit of a Canadian team. The
M.L. Association has guaranteed the Kanuks 80 per
ecnt. of the gate money.
* * , * *
. Like the N.S7W. Rugby Union, that of
Maoriland had a rocky time on the financial road
last season, and ended up with a loss of £56 on the
year’s doings. But the Union is not in any diffi-
culty, as it has an accumulated fund of £11,312. It
hadn’t plunged its good hard coin on white elephants
of the Epping Ground sort. The Epping “bloomer”
is likely to be the death of the Sydney body.
That was a dandy seore with which Rand-
wiok (Sydney) Rifle Club wiped out Goulbum last
week. It was a 10 men a-side match, with seven
shots at 200, 500, and 600 yards. Out of a pos-
sible of 1050 the men from the horsey suburb notched
967, and left Goulbum lamenting, but consoled by
the fact that they had only gone down to a record
performance. Granville Technical College held the
previous best with 952.


“Confomat” Hard Hat
EEGD,
“ THE ACME OF COMFORT.”
THE highest grade HARD HAT, hand-made in a
special way from the Choicest materials ; con-
forms to the head, making it most comfort-
able and easy-fitting even when new, and fits any
shaped head. Exceptionally light, very durable,
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED.
Price 13/6.
fn all the Newest Season’s Styles. Stocked by
Leading Retailers throughout Australia. Try one.
Insist upon having the genuine best with the
Trade Mark “ Confomat ” stamped on the leather.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd.,
. Abbotsford, Melbourne. j
One Good Tool
Will Sell Another!
'WSiWm
:*•»
c
1
m
m
a- mm
I m
tfSi
fe
:
Hi
sS*!
And so it is that
wherever an I wan
Post Hole Digger
starts operations,
others soon appear
around. The great
saving of time over
the old bar and spade
method soon makes
itself felt. Thatis why
the Iwan Digger
has ‘‘ made g o o'd ”
throughout Austral-
asia, and even in far
Malay. No more
pressure is needed
than to lean on the
digger and turn it to
the right. Six haif-
turns fills thb digger,
and six times filling
makes your 3-feet
hole. You can dig
anything from 120 to
200 holes in a day.
Extend the pipe bar,
and bore to 35-feet.
The IWAN has no
adjustable parts—is
•perfectly rigid-just
what an earth-working
tool should be —with no-
thing to loosen or stick.
“Buy It and Try It!”
3,4, 5,6, 7,8, 9, 10, 12, 14 inch
7/-, 7/-, 7/-, 7/-, 7/6,8/6,9/6,10/-, 27/-, 34/- each
Our Catalogue shows over 2000 Tools.
Write lor it! It’s Post Free.
Thos. McPherson 8 Son,
TOOLS FOR THE FARMER,
582-588 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
«-BRANDTS
ATMOSLITf
Cas Machine
LIGHT and
HEAT
to be inexpensive must be
generated by an ATMOSLITE
air-gas machine. Made in
Australia, the outcome of
practical experience in illu-
minant engineering, and
scientifically designed to pro-
duce maximum light and
heat at minimum cost.
Investigate! Write To-day
for Literature.
BRANDT BROS., LTD.,
LAMPHOUSE,
23G Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h.p. Chalmers
£490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp. THOMAS,
6-Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
7/A
/
yj
ariC
The product of
one source only
More miles on “Sfiell" than
ou any other.
Its perfect purity —that's
the point'
AGENTS WANTED.
LIVE Representatives to control exclusive
territory for manufacturer’s line of High-
grade Soaps and Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices.
100 per cent, to 200 per cent, profit. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U.S.A.
Established 15 Years.
gfds
g
PEBECO
does far more than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, economy
in dental expense and better health.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Sole Agent—
G Arnold 6 O’Connell St., Sydney
U. Arnold, (Wholesale only).
sdfg
fsdg
SHAVE WITH A “PLUM”!
THE blade of a “PLUM ” is the finest silver steel,
and we put the right shaving edge on every one
before it goes out to the buyer. Being practical
hairdressers we know how to.
lO|G
Post Free.
The C. & A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at nifrht.
2/6 post free,
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6,
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6,
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
Men’s High-Grade Shoes!
' you appreciate character, individuality and serviceability in
your footwear, the Rigney Shoes will more than please you.
Remember our guarantee. If the upper of a Rigney Shoe breaks
through before the first sole is worn through, we will replace with
v anew pair.
The Boot illustrated is a Patent Kid Lace Boot, dull Oalf Kid
Leg, with Patent lace facing. Walking or dress wear.
Prices 27/6 30/-
Write To=day for a Copy of our New Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is
under the personal management of Mr. F. C.
Rigney, the sole and only proprietor of the
above firm.
sdf
A.M. L.ff F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian. Mercantile. Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
... FOR .♦.
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD
Manager.
Also at Melbourne Brisbane.
Our MODEL 3 is a Dust-Proof Machine.
It has been designed without a place where the dust can pet in, and this means
that the life of the bearings will be much prolonged.
This same care in .construction has been extended to every other part, and for
£ll you cannot get a machine with more advantages, or which will give you
a greater return for the price paid.
Come in and let us show you some of the features which make the Model 3 what
it is. If you want to inspect the higher-priced Cycles we will also show
you these. Our Pitt Street Depdt is open till 9 p.m. on Fridays for those men who cannot call
during the daytime.
BENNETT & BARKELL, LTD., Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 PITT STREET, and CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
g
Captain Livingstone, formerly commander
of the Yic. Government steamer Lady Loch, has
srone aloft, after being a gallant mariner for nearly
half a century. As a boy of 10 he joined the old
Government steamer Empire, and later worked
on H.M.Y.S. Pharos and sundry ships of the
Aberdeen line. When the Lady Loch was
launched he was made chief officer, and when his
skipper skipped to a bigger post he was appointed
to the vacancy with suitable ceremony. Living-
stone, who directed the Lady Loch from 1888 to
1903, once possessed an accent which he brought
with his humor from Ayrshire.
John Bull seems a bit afraid of his young-
sters these days. About the.middleof lastyearit was
announced that the Bakers’ and Allied Traders’
Society, which is holding a big exhibition in Lon-
don in September, this year, was offering prizes for
competition among flours milled from Australian
wheats. The usual correspondence passed on the
subject through G. Reid and other exalted per-
sonages. Then no more was heard of the project
until the other day, when it was discovered that,
through the influence of British millers, the whole
thing had been dropped.
DUNLO
Beware!
n t buy tyres,.
tVie'6oo<* os DunUj»*
•'
v:
t
•. ;
.-•-
■
-Mm
orTy
epaiKs
■SSS^!
Always Carry a
pyiOurtLop fliooET Outfit.”
Outwear all Others
m * V Dunlop Rubber c? °f Aus.Ltd •••
ne!b. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane ® ChrisfchurcUZ


A. SAUNDERS’ DAINTY NEW JEWELLERY
FOR XMAS —BIRTHDAY—OR WEDDING GIFTS.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, Jewelled
Movement, Patent Adjusted
Balance,. £2-
Extra Quality, £2/10/. Works
Kept in Free Repair for 2 Yrs.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold LINKS, 10/6
15nt Gold Links, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and Turquoise
or Amethysts, 27/6-
A SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ame-
thyst, 12 Til.
A. SAUNDERS, i
9et Gold Claw-set
RING, Garnet, Ame-
thyst. or Topaz,
EXQUISITE GOODS, CHARAC-
TERISED BY DELIGHTFUL AND
ORIGINAL FANCY, AT ENTIRELY
MODERATE PRICES.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE IS A
BEAUTIFUL PRODUCTION, FULL
OF THOUSANDS OF GIFT SUG-
GESTIONS.
LET’S SEND YOU A COPY.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold Secret Name BROOCH, Ruby
or Sapphire, £2.
Diamond-set. £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, set Ruby or
Sapphire, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PKND-
DANT, set Fine
Pearls and Ame-
thysts,
27/(5.
9ct Gold Hand-clasp
RING, 25/.
15ct Gold, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS, 17/6-
15ct Gold Links, 35/.
Initials Engraved, same
price.
A. SAUNDIJJJS.
15ct Gold EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and Peridot
or Tourmaline, £ ‘Jt-
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSES, Plain 7/6, 8/6;
Silver-filled, 5/6; Nickel,
3/6.
8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Curb Bar and Heart
BROOCH, 5/0-
Larger, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, Diamonds and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-
Three Diamonds, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Double Bamboo BRACELET, with Safety Chain
attached, £ 2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 12/6*
15ct Gold, 25/; Diamond, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Plain Juvenile BANGLE, 15/.
A, SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar and Circle BROOCH,
set Red or Green Stone, 10/6
sdfg
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, set Red
Stone or Olivine,
10/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird and Heart
CHARM,
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies or
Sapphires or Oliv-
ines, 3-row Half-hoop
RING, £7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Fine
Pure Double-cut Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2-
3 Diamonds, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Expanding, WATCH BRACE-
LET, tne Latest Design, Lever Movement,
Full Jewelled, a Perfect, Accurate, and
Reliable Little Timekeeper,
£6/10/.
Extra Jewelled Movement and
Heavier Bracelet,
£7/10/, £8/10, £10.
A
BEAUTIFUL
GIFT.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold NECKLACE,
set 28 Fine Pure Double-
cut Diamonds and Three
Beautiful Green Tourma-
lines or Opals,
£25-
A. SAUNDERS.
' 9ct Gold SOUTHERN CROSS
BROOCH, set Red, Blue, or
Green Stones, 7 ld-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar BROOCH, set Diamond and
Red or Blue Stones, 25 /•
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold “Dinna For-
get” CHARM,
10/.
Larger, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold set 5
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, Strong
Safety Chain attached, £3-
A. SAUNYIERS.
9ct. Gold CURB NECKLET, yltrong
20/, 25/, 30/. loot Gold, 30/, 35/,
and Neat, 15 />
£2, £2/10/, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, Dia-
monds and Emer-
alds, Cluster RING,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Olivines,
£4/10/.
ds
\. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold,
Set Pearls
and Garnet
or Peridot,
12/0’
1 A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
' 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst Centre, 25/-
15ct Gold, £2.
£2.
Wmwi
1«V<*
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent's Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Lever
WATCH, Full Jewelled, Non-magnetic,
Strong, Reliable, £ 2-
Guaranteed Free Repairs for 2 Years.
Extra Jewelled Movement, £2/10/.
I £2/10/.
F
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BAR BROOCH, Any Names
Engraved, 5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL,
15/
15ct Gold, 30/.
Silver, 2/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Plain Half-Round BRACELET,
Strong Ciltch and Safety Chain, £3/10-
15et Gold, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Crescent Pheasant BROOCH,
Pearls and Turquoise, ,50 r
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL,
set with Ruby or
Sapphire,
17/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
«• <=»>->• ’n;;,s F « Exd " !ive ' 44,l
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel, Open-faced,
Plate WATCH, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Non-nmgnetic, Time Spring,
Water Proof Cases, 15/*
Higher Grade, 25/-
— '
Dust and
20/-
JEWELLER,
CLOCK
k MAKER I,
CIS
V
Saunders
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807. f10Q-ftH-815.815.817- GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
D> SILVERSMITH
O fISULT/#(?
OPTICIAN


JfcNW
m
mm
ft
3K?
m
MM
r
AjL/
ft
0
1
IS®
HI
i®*)
Nearly one
Million Bottles
sold annually
m A ustralasia.
1
l
m
i&sm
sssas
n
SW*
o
m.
V
THE FAVOORTTE REMEDY OF
*$
WOMEN OF THE HIGHEST TYPE.
*
Every Forty Seconds a Bottle of
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN
ROOT PILLS
passes into the hands
of a Customer in
DAY AND NIGHT, year in and year out, a bottle
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills passes across the counter into
the hands of a customer. No other remedy has such a steady,
clock-like sale, which is the strongest evidence of the merits
of these Pills. They are not advertised as a great Cure-all,
but as a safe, sure and reliable remedy for the Little Ills or
Life. For people who eat and drink too much and get their
digestive system out of order from any other cause, they are
unexcelled. They stand without a rival for Constipation, Bilious-
ness, Indigestion, Inactive Liver, and for all f emale Ailments.
■
r
i
©
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets.
A Safe, Sure and Reliable Remedy for the
Eradication of Worms in Children
and Adults.
Worms, by their movements, and the interrup-
tion they offer to the contents of the bowels,
generally occasion pain or uneasiness in the abdo-
men, sometimes spasmodic, sometimes gnawing or
biting, and not infrequently of a vague, indescrib-
able character, and yet very distressing. Sympa-
thetic with this is a sensation of itching at the
anus and at the nostrils, producing a disposition
to scratch the fundament and pick the nose,
which is characteristic of this affection. The
bowels are often disordered, sometimes consti-
pated or stopped, and sometimes relaxed with
occasional bloody discharges, as in dysentery. The
discharge is sometimes in shreds or flakes, which
are not infrequently mistaken for fragments of
partially-digested food. It is not uncommon for
portions of undigested food to pass with the dis-
charges. The appetite is exceedingly variable; in
some cases natural, in others deficient, craving
or depraved; one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen is often
hard, swollen and tympanetie, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and disposition
to grind the teeth during sleep are other charac-
teristic symptoms. The effects, however, often
extend beyond the alimentary canal, and various
derangements of health are experienced in conse-
quence either of the direct irritation of the worms
or of the disordered digestion which they occa-
sion. Among the most common of these are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irritation
of temper, wakefulness, or disposition to exces-
sive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of
sleep, as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic
movements of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deafness.
General convulsions are not infrequent in chil-
dren, and symptoms strongly resembling “Water
on the Brain ” have been ascribed to worms and
have ceased on their expulsion.
Cases of St. Vitus’ dance, melancholia and ner-
vous diseases, and even insanity have been attri-
buted, with the most apparent reason, to the
same cause. In addition to these affections may
be mentioned obstinate cough, spasm of the
glottis, palpitation, languid circulation, pale and
yellowish skin, sunken eyes, a livid circle about
the eyelids, and a general emaciation. This con-
dition is often accompanied by fever, and is then
called worm fever. Persons in apparently perfect
health may be afflicted with worms, and "the only
symptoms may be periods of irritableness or a
constant desire for something to eat, which may
last for months until the system breaks down, and
the worms manifest their presence in some other
manner.
Worms have frequently heen described by
medical men as “The Children’s Enemy.” Un-
doubtedly there is no greater enemy to health,
happiness and comfort of children than the
presence of worms in the stomach and intes-
tines; causing an indescribable irritation and
gnawing in the bowels, which upsets its victim,
impairs the health, spoils the temper, and drives
the mother to distraction, and earns for the little
innocent the harsh and undeserved reputation of
being “ a cross child.”
Unfortunately many mothers fail to recognb
the fact that their little ones are suffering intense
pain and distress, and are practically irresponsible
for the outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious symp-
toms appear nothing is done to alleviate the dis-
tress. The symptoms of this disease are some-
what variable, but generally they are so charac-
teristic that no mother need have any doubts.
The best proof of worms is worms, and if the
general conduct of the child is such as to give the
slightest suspicion, an examination of the stools
(evacuation from the bowels) will afford ample
proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an indifferent
state of health. It becomes peevish and irritable
in its temper, and complains of itching of the nose,
whilst the same symptom may be very prominent
indeed in the lower part of the bowel. Another
point to which the attention of mothers should be
specially directed is that the child is apt to start
in its sleep, its repose being in this way of a dis-
turbed nature. Note also that many children who
are in the habit of wetting their beds do so by
reason of the irritation which these worms produce
in the body, the irritation extending to the bladder
and causing it involuntarily to part with its
contents.
In every heap of decaying matter there is al-
ways to be found a nest of worms. They breed
and multiply in impure matter. And so it is in
the human system. The accumulation of partially
digested food in the intestines, which becomes
putrid when the bowels are constipated, induces
the presence of worms. A few doses of Comstock’s
“ Dead Shot ” Worm Pellets, followed by a dose
or two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills, will dis-
turb them in their nest and drive them out of the
system.
Pin Worm, Thread Worm, or Seat Worm.
Is an Inhabitant of the Lower Bowel.
The Long Thread Worm measures from one
inch to two inches in length, the upper portion
being thin, and the lower two-thirds about twice
as thick. This variety also infests the large
intestines and the rectum.
The common Thread Worm derives its name
from its thread-like appearance. The average
length is about one-third of an inch, this descrip-
tion applying to the female worm. The male
worms are much smaller, and do not exhibit
half the length of the females. The favorite situ-
ation of the Thread Worm is the large bowel
which forms the terminal portion of the intestines.
These worms cause severe itching at the lower
passage and picking at the nose. Anaamia, rest-
lessness, irritability and loss of appetite are also
frequent symptoms. A child or adult so affected
can find no relief from the terrible itching, and
consequently becomes restless and upset at the
slightest provocation. A purgative medicine will
sometimes afford temporary relief by the expulsion
of some of the Worms congregated near the
rectum ; but the Worms multiply so quickly that
the trouble returns. To get rid of the Wormsand
their eggs, their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are unfailing in
their results.
Round, or Stomach Worms.
The Round Worm in its appearance, save in
color of course, somewhat resembles the earth-worm
in shape. As in the case of the Thread Worms,
the female worm very much exceeds the male
worm in size. Whilst the Thread Worm inhabits
the large intestine of children, the Round Worm
is found in the small bowel, or that portion of the
intestine which immediately comes off from the
stomach and makes up the succeeding 20ft. in
length of the digestive tube. Adults, of course,
are frequently also affected with Round Worms,
and it may be added that they are also subject
to be troubled with Thread Worms. The danger
of the Round Worm appears to be that in some
cases the parasite has the habit of making its way
through the walls of the intestine. Occasionally
it will pass into the stomach from the bowel itself,
ami it has also been known to cause liver troubles,
when one of these parasites has contrived to pass
from the bowel into the duct or tube which leads
the bile from the liver into the intestine.
If the worm penetrates from the bowel into the
general cavity of the belly, inflammation of a fatal
kind may be set up. The symptoms are very
much like those produced by the presence of the
Thread Worm. In addition, however, a good
deal of thirst represented in patients, along with
a disturbance of sleep, with a debased appetite,
the patient developing a liking for all sorts of
strange and unwonted foods. Itching of the
nose may also be here a prominent symptom.
All Traces of Worms Eradicated.
Mrs. 11. Campbell, Corbett Street, West End,
Brisbane, Queensland, writes: “My little girl,
aged five years, suffered from thread worms for
some months. I took her to the doctor, who pre-
scribed a syrup, but found it did not do much
good, as the symptoms still remained. I saw
Comstock’s ‘ Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets advertised,
and procured a packet, which proved very effec-
tual. They greatly relieved her and she immedi-
ately seemed to lose all trace of the trouble. The
dry cough and the restlessness at night and other
symptoms left her, and she is now in splendid
health. You may use this, if you wish, as a testi-
monial.”
Thread Worms in a Child, also Adult.
“My little girl, aged seven years,” writes Mrs.
A. Bristow, of 37 Regent-street, Sydney, “was
subject to Thread Worms, which caused her to be
peevish, irritable and restless at night, with a
voracious appetite, and I procured all sorts of
remedies for her, but without avail, until I saw
Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets adver-
tised, and my husband told me to buy them. I
did so ; and after she had taken one box and a
part of the second, all traces were eradicated,
having passed great numbers of them. Since then
a friend of mine who had suffered also from
Thread Worms for 20 years, enduring much dis-
comfort, rendering her pale, sallow and thin, and
which caused her much internal trouble with a
feeling of sickness, during this time using all sorts
of remedies such as turpentine and different Worm
Powders to remove them, without avail. At
length she was induced to try Comstock’s ‘ Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets, and after taking the third
box (following the directions minutely) she was
pleased to find that the worms not only ceased to
trouble, but that all trace of them had left her,
that her health was returning, she was increasing
in weight and getting a better color. She cannot
speak too highly of them, and recommends them
to all whose childien are suffering in this way.”
Child Alive with Worms.
Completely Relieved after Many So-called
Remedies Fail.
Mrs. M. Johnson, 135 Elizabeth-street, Wel-
lington, N.Z., writes : “ Permit me to express my
grateful appreciation of the value of Comstock’s
‘ Dead Shot ’ Worm Pellets. My little girl, aged
three years, was very bad, continually picking her
nose, jumping about in her sleep at nights, and
she was afraid of being left alone, night or day.
My husband, after bringing home several different
so-called remedies and ‘certain cures,’ all of no
earthly good, deeided to give Comstock’s ‘Dead
Shot ’ Worm Pellets a fair trial. I smiled when I
saw what he had, as I was sick and tired of trying
to cure the poor child. After taking the first
dose the result was marvellous; she must have
been simply alive with worms. I continued the
treatment, giving her a pellet in the morning and
a teaspoonful of castor oil at night, and I am
pleased to say that she is thoroughly cured, and
has had no return of the symptoms.”
Stomach and Thread Worms Expelled.
Mrs. Willmott, of Coorna, N.S.W., states: —
“ Hearing about the wonderful success of your
Worm Pellets, I decided to gi ve them a trial. I
gave my three children, Roy, Phyllis and Horace
a dose each, as they had all the symptoms of
Worms. The pellets were taken at 6 o’clock in
the morning, and at 10 o’clock Roy had passed a
Stomach Worm about 12 inches in length, and
theotherchildren passedquite a numberof Thread
Worms. Since taking the pellets the children
seemed greatly relieved, and appear to be better
in health. I shall always recommend them to my
friends, and you may use this testimony for publi-
cation in any way you please.”
The Use of Purgatives.
Although the use of medicines which are simply
purgatives may cause the discharge of some email
worms, such medicines are useless to thoroughly
eradicate the pest. Physics which do not kill the
worms and their eggs have no permanent results,
as the worms pass through the matter in the
intestines and reach the upper portion of the
bowels or the stomach, or fasten themselves to
the membranes of the intestines until the effect of
the purgative is over. Worms require a specific
medicine, and there is no remedy so effective as
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. They
kill the worms, destroy their eggs and dislodge
their nests.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a-
scientific preparation, prepared in the form of a
sweet that children eagerly take. They are
packed in glass tubes with full directions in each
and are for sale by chemists and stores generally at
2s. 9d. per packet, or six packets for 15s. ; and if
unable to obtain locally, will be mailed post free
on receipt of price. Prepared only by The W.
H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang-street, Sydney,
N.S.W. ; and Farish-street, Wellington, N.Z.


CAIRNS.
The Great Winter Pleasure
Trip to Sunny Queensland
V
k
<
SEEN
THROUGH
A CAIRNS
TUNNEL.
by Modern
Inter-State
Steamships.
SMOOTH WATER
SPRING-LIKE CLIMATE.
Up-to-Date and Comfortable
Steamships.
’Msms* •
r-IC/ ’?*&*
V'r>
-.~
‘y-s
&
, : „,V IV.
'S&
I V,
JUk
S
•«»
‘*r •
3s
BARRON GORGE.
MR, DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows:-
the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs between the
Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest of the sea trips of Aus-
tralasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands, covered with foliage strange to
southern eyes, and the boat is ever rounding headlands, streaming into fine bays and estuaries. Ihe
famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.’
CAIRNS
is picturesquely situated, has a healthy
climate, and the temperature in winter
seldom falls below 50. First-class
hotel accommodation at Cairns and
Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be
obtained at a reasonable tariff, and the
fishing at Cairns is excellent. A trip
to the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North
Queensland should not be missed.
For Fares and all Particulars
.. . apply to ...
8$
XI
ig - j
9
■
£1
%ssi
i
m
m
m
11
I
■
i
■K
■
In
m
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
VICTORIA, NEW SOUTH WALES
and af! porf3 in each
AUSTRALIAN STA
.C 9 IW A.U,S. N. C? LIMITED. L ; , v
.
(} Ao.tfo oimnftnr DA DUP'D » AODfy.iT&,
mm
'
§ll
OFFICES & AGENTS AT ALL PORTS
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO. LTD.
AUSTRALASIAN UNITED STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD.


m,
A
n
/:////'
lit//
m
ml.
m
a
m
W,
m
m.
if/.
n.
l
mmsL
urn.
.i' .-.rv'“
W
%
/ r
l/V
_ 4
><T
T*
<£=
~s
-a
VN
rA
rs
-s^o
Kv
_ />
-;■
/ 'Liyy^ZL
'i ?
'\ ji/ r <i
N -#\/-
m
-A
vn
>
r
< ‘ - v ( r
<^\A
(V.
r\
K 7
--■'
r^.
I y>
<r^-:.
Bom 1820,
still going
strong.
Since 1820
o
has had one steady aim: to deserve
your appreciation.
gsfd
Hence the maintenance, by the distillers of Johnnie Walker, of the largest reserve
stock of pure Malt Scotch Whisky held by any one firm. This vast reserve is perpetu-
ally ageing in bond to assure that unvarying sequence of quality which makes every
bottle of Johnnie Walker the same as every other of the millions of bottles sold the
world over, and makes possible the guarantee: “same quality throughout the world.”
2 z
SQUARE BOTTLES. —Johnnie Walker, Red Label, over 10 years old.
SQUARE BOTTLES.—Johnnie Walker, White Label, over 6 years old.
; • i; r
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.
And at SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
NATURAL
ENO’S
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o'U*l‘S
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. 14i
g
THE RIGHT RIFLE FOR THE YOUNGEST BOY.
Parts attached to action itself, making it. very simple. Weighs 2 % pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will also shoot .22 Long
R. F. and .22 Short R. F.
At’ °rQgressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens - Pope Gata=
logues. [6
m
UNDER VICE-REGAL
dfg
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25 - set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMIJINGS MADE UP.
Country orders reeeive promnt attention.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6
sdfg
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Be3t
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
&
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.


Comfort for skin
tortured babies
and rest for tired,
fretted mothers.
A warm bath with Cuticura
Soap, followed by a gentle
anointing with Cuticura
Ointment, is generally suffi-
cient to afford immediate
comfort in the most dis-
tressing forms of itching,
burning and scaly eczemas,
rashes, irritations and in-
flammations of infants and
children, permit sleep for
child and rest for mother,
and point to permanent re-
lief when other methods
fail. Peace falls upon dis-
tracted households when
Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment enter. No others cost
so little and do so much.
Sold everywhere. Send to R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W., for free book on skin health.
A MARVELLOUS ADVANCE IN MEDICAL SCIENCE.
SAMOL,
The New Treatment for Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF OF PAIN.
“SAMOL” is an ointment for the treatment of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, etc., affording imme-
diate relief from pain in the above cases, as also in cases
of Neuralgia, Toothache, Sprains and Burns. It further
allays inflammation and irritation in Eczema, Stings,
Chilblains, Insect Bites, etc.
When “ SAMOL ” is applied to a painful part the pain
will be relieved.
“ SAMOL ” is prescribed in most hospitals in Austria-
Hungary by the leading Medical Professors and Physi-
cians on the Continent.
“SAMOL” is sold at 3s. 9d. and 6s. per tube, and can
he ordered through all chemists or obtained post free
direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A. GODDARD. 96a
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, or 194 VICKERY'S
CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. [2
5.
Her Youth
si
bM
r.b.A
LEN'J
Mexican
WALNUT 3TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
Michelin
Tyres.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
WHENEVER, you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
£
S'.
4/
hi
CP
■^CTURIHO
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
WOLSEY
FOR UNDERWEAR COMFORT
Wolsey Pure Wool Underwear keeps the warmth in and the
cold out; it maintains the body at an equable temperature;
it absorbs perspiration and keeps mischievous chills at
‘bay. Its splendid softness and elasticity, its perfect lit, its
freedom from chafing seams, all make for unrivalled comfort.
Wear Wolsey garments next
your skin by night and day
and note the splendid differ-
ence Wolsey makes, not only
toyour comfort, but to health
GUARANTE E D
UNSHRINKABLE
PURE WOOL
selected by experts
for its durability
and sound quality.
Wolsey Pure Wool Under
wear is made for scrvict ,
its skilful shaping and splen-
did workmanship conduce
to your entire satisfaction
REPLACED IF
IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Pure Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is sold everywhere in a wide variety
of garments, and in many weights, sizes and qualities, for men, women, and children.
pAjOnvc
TRADE
LDI
MARK
The Spalding Trade Mark
which adorns Implements used by the Most
Successful Players in all Branches of Sport.
VDIKC
TRADE
MARK
CfiEM
sgj
Ask for Goods bearing 1 this Trade Mark, for, besides obtaining the very best
article, you are also covered by the following Guarantee :
“ We guarantee that any article bearing the Spalding Trade Mark will give satisfaction and a reason-
able amount of service, under ordinary conditions and fair treatment.
“ We agree to repair or replace, free of charge, any such article which proves defective in material or
workmanship, provided it is returned to us during the season in which it was purchased.”
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, are the Largest Manufacturers of Sporting and
Athletic Goods in the WORLD.
SPALDINC TRADE MARK GOODS GoIf, Cricket, Football, Hockey, Baseball, Lacrosse, Basket Ball, Polo,
Croquet, Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, Boiler Skates, Lawn Bowls, Indian Clubs, Dumb Bells, Running
Shoes, etc.
*c
TRADE
o!»
MARK
PftEAt
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL THE BETTER DEALERS,
or
A. G. SPALDING & BROS,
of Australasia Ltd.,
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
rj-piwg
'RAPE
MARKUS
%'S
CD (AT
Si
Your Skin
Using soap and water only is expecting Nature to do too much.
Ghaps, rough or red skin, sallowness, blotches, wrinkles, and
' > other unsightly skin condition's result from the presence of ex-
traneous matter which soap and .water does not always eradi-
cate. Help Nature, and keep your skin in tone by using
Icilma Fluor Cream
- ■ ■'* (Greaseless).
Every day, especially before going out, apply, a little of the
• cream,- and enhance your beauty. Good, for preventing
sunburn and freckles.
The native girl reminds you that ICILMA is
the product of a Natural Spring in Algeria.
SAMPLE OFFER. On receipt of 2d. in stamps a dainty
sample of Greaseless Cream will be sent by
Grow Clearer
Watch
PRICE
2 h
per
Pot.
ICILMA CO. Ltd.
(Dept. D),
139 York Street, SYDNEY
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made bv the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season. ' .
Medlow Bath is an ideal'resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of* the picturesque. Arrangements can be-made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views jin the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Oaves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
♦
V
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“Benger’s Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.”
BENGER'S FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester,
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“0.K.”: Amidst all the talk about Government or
municipal action for providing the public with cheap
fresh fish, one hears nothing about the fish which is
smoked. “New Zealand cod” has risen 50 per cent,
in Melbourne —from 7d. to lid. per lb. —-within 20
vears; and, presumably, the men who catch the fish
are not all the richer for that increase of price.
It looks as though the ring of dealers kept, the
supply lower than the demand in order to force the
price upwards. . ,
“B. de O.”: Re the Barrier barber’s demand for.
preference to unionists. I discovered in an old book
of records the other day, that in June, 1799, several
barbers were prosecuted for exercising their trade
in the city of London without being members of the
Honorable Company of Barbers. ' They were fined-
various amounts. Preference was first granted to
these unionists in the sixteenth century by King
Harry the Eighth. The charter grant was the
ancient equivalent of registration under the Arbitra-
tion Act.,
* * * #
“Jimby”: Visited the Annual show at Mulga Flat,
and during my peregrinations came across a Brum,
jewellery joint. The jointer was trying to sell a
Brum, watch to Mulga Bill. Bill, being a bit sus-
picious, demanded a guarantee. The jointer, not ■a
bit dismayed, wrote out a guarantee to keep the
watch in repair for five years. The form completed,
jointer pushed the fountain pen in Bill’s hand and said
briskly, “Sign here!” Bill obediently did it, thus
guaranteeing the up-keep of the ticker himself. And
the jointer never moved an eyelid. . ' '*•>
“Ki au Mohio”: Re the Maoriland plan of using
prison labor in tree-planting (B. 30/3/’ll). If the
Vic. M.L.C. made the statements quoted in the par.
he was totally wrong. ; Take the largest plantations
—for instance, those in Rotorua districts. Prisoners
plant, each man, from 2000 to 2500 trees a day ; but
the planting does not last 150 days, as was calcu-
lated. Some two and a half months' in the winter
suffice to plant the output of the Rotorua Nursery,
usually 5,000,000 a year. He is also wrong in stat-
ing that pinus radiata (insignis ) is planted for
timber. A few thousands are raised and planted
for shelter belts, but the principal trees grown are
European larch, Austrian pine, Corsican pine, and
the best of the American pines, such as strobus
ponderosa (bull pine), etc. Although 2722 trees
are planted to the acre, only about 200 comprise
the final crop. This consequent on the severe
thinning necessary. It is expected that the trees
abovementioned, together with hardwoods, eucalypts,
etc., which are also planted in large numbers, will
mature in from 45 tb 50 years from date of plant-
ing; therefore the estimate of monetary value quoted
is quite erroneous.
“Marloo”: Wonderful what a gullible person the
North Coast (N.S.W.) cow cocky is. Apparently,
the only information in the monthly returns which
troubles him is the price per pound paid for butter.
The- directors and managers, being aware of this, use
the tickler on the right spot. Thus, during the
quarter ending December, the price realised for
butter ranged from ,9J)s. to 945., with an average of
925. 4d. per cwt. According to published reports,
the factories paid suppliers 9d. per pound for butter.
Add to this lid., cost of manufacture per pounds
10id. So we find that the factories paid 98s. and re-
ceived 925. 4d. for a cwt. of butter! Of course,
there are no such giant philanthropists floating
around these days; ahd this is the simple explana-
tion of the mystery. Cocky’s test is faked, and he
is credited with less butter than he actually supplies.
For instance, suppose Durrum supplies 75 pounds of
cream, and his true test is 4.2, This will produce
35 pounds of butter. At Bjd. a pound he Would re-
ceive 245. 9id. But Durrum is, we’ll say, credited
with a 4.0 test. The 75 pounds of cream will then
make 33 pounds of butter; and that is the quantity
he gets paid for. In this way Durrum, while he gets
the 245. 9Jd., to which he is entitled, gets it as
for 33 pounds, which works out at a shade over 9d.
per pound. And if Durrum doesn’t happen to be
bound to any special factory, the best faker gets his
custom.
* * * *
“The Prodigal”: No one is so frequently taken
down in the bush as the poor parson. Leaving the
few genuine cases aside, and taking only the
tricksters, I class them into four—alcoholic beggars,
religious beggars, smart beggars and will-makers.
One of the first lot recently came to me. He could
hardly keep his feet; and when I rebuked him he
challenged me to smell his breath. I hung my hat
on it instead. jAnother, when advised to give up
whisky if he wished to live a long life, replied:
“To-day, your Reverence, I had no whisky, and it has
been the longest day of my life.” I paid on that.
Another turned upon me and said: “You be not
above taking a drop yourself, your Reverence, and
what’s yours is good enough for me.” He collected
also. One day I reached a bush pub, with a group
outside. “Hello,” I said, as I came up, “waiting
for the shearing to start at C -n?” “No,” re-
plied the spokesman, “just waiting for your Rever-
ence to save us from fasting on a Thursday.” I
have scarcely met a genuine religious beggar in
Queensland. The worst rascals are in this group.
I have even been led at times to agree with the man
who wrote “Religion is the last refuge of the scoun-
drel.” Then there is the will-maker. In an assumed
burst of repentance he wills his alleged and distant
property to the Church. This paves the way for a
note to the proprietor of a pub, setting out that the
will-maker is a fit and proper person to be given
credit for a few days. Then one day the stranger
disappears, and the will is found to be bogus. One
man worked that Swindle in three adjoining towns
—and my town, I grieve to say, was one of them.
* * * *
“Broomite”: “G.R.F.,” who writes (B. 2/2/’ll)
about nor’-west pearling, is a back number. Things
have changed a great deal in the last decade. The
diver can nowadays command advances ranging from
£5O up to as high as £lBO and £2OO. There are
no doubt wasters and men anxious to go “try-div-
ing” to be had for from £2O to £BO ; but .a good diver
always obtains a big advance in hard cash. Further,
whatever they may have done ortce, the Asiatics do
not now mostly take out all their wages in “slops.”
They prefer the cash: I have known men who did
not spend £1 in three yesjrs on the boats. One man
I knew only bought a sixpenny stamp in three years.
He drew all his wages in' cash, and either spent it
ashore or took it away with him. As to the accom-
modation provided on board, it has to be remem-
bered that pearling luggers are vessels of no more
than about 12 to 13 tons. Vessels of this size are the
most suitable for “drifting” ; which is a great’ con-
sideration, for the diver at times tramps-many miles
on the sea bottom in search after shell. The accom-
modation on such vessels is equal to that on fishing
boats in any part of the world ; and men who under-
take the work know they must not expect saloon
mail-boat accommodation. Nevertheless, what they
get is equal, if not superior, to that available on
board many of the steam tubs engaged in the pas-
senger coastal traffic in the Eastern States. There
is nothing cheap about Asiatic labor; nevertheless,
my own view is that the Legislature would be touch-
ing on dangerous ground if it prohibited Asiatics or
colored labor in the pearling business; not that 1
love the colored labor, but I believe that, if it were
driven out of Australian vessels, foreigners would
use the same labor and work the industry close to
our shores, but beyond the Australian territorial
waters, where the greatest quantity of pearl-shell is
at present obtained by the Australian pearlers.
TROUSERETTES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hawker came to Hogan’s door,
And business had been bad;
A figure drear, in trousers queer,
Of flaring shepherd’s plaid
Caine out. The hawker looked it o’er;
In grave perplexity he swore,
And dropped the heavy pack he bore.
“Good-day, sir. Is the missus well?”
He ventured in his doubt.
The figure grim replied to him:
“I am the missus, lout!”
Then said the hawker: “Will you tell
Your man to answer to the bell?
It’s petticoats I have to sell!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


V' V X
t\ \\ m /; v \ \ / \
v m :<
X"V t< m »i K 'S,Xcfm V* \ \ ,X"
/ >i 0 K.',"k I \\Wa h \ *<" \
r#// mMi?. /T ( r.rn U i \ \ K\M>rfi \ \ '
( //j
M! (W. / / / -Vm// 7 / < r
MuvX/ / / w
r- f< \ V. <? $». / ' A. t* / ' '<J • /
rvc ” *-''
trix
i •
aSLj^yy
* v- v •<?■
Vl»
; T " <t
»*«4 A A A 4
>252
1/
sawn
J7K
«g
■i
r<
UJ
PM
X
' X -j
/>Tv)
•a*
iii
mrtiila MWnW
C'i
2!"?7msr
rnirnma
vtpitm
C
L 2
A
bifU*-uii
<*)
r>
\Jiakers of Hi&hGrade Pianos J
#
We now sell more Pianos per year in Australia than does any other concern in
the Commonwealth. The majority of our buyers of “ upright Pianos pay fiom
85 to 1 10 guineas, and as high as 135 guineas, being thoroughly satisfied as to
the value obtained. We also have pianos at lower prices, in many popular
styles. Please call and inspect them, or let us send you our catalogue D.
The above picture shows a Beale High-Grade Piano in the
Concert Room of the Magnificent Strand Palace Hotel , London.
0
AL
L' m
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS-
-378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.) 107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
127 RUNDLE ST m ADELAIDE, S.A. 837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mkmio'ihnk Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
A dkt, amu & Frkmanti.k Agknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Rerth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing- every fortnight from BRISBANE, SVDNEA r ,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
l2 Martin Pi,ack, Syonky.
The
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSVTII, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
.BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS tbroug-hout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE,
Australian Sank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909. under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED - - - - . £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George ,1. Sr.v, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Siieldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yaryvood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C mimonvvealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All NeYv Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNItO, Esq.; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. •
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD. Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..; £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75.500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ’ -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial [||utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £8.000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hor. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M. L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.,
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping'.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
iv Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney
OSTERMEYER PEWEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne :
H. MCfEOKK & CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZf & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
dsf
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
June 7.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
July 5.
A FRIO, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine SijrnaUinfr Appontus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
PARES —Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £'l4 S 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AD€RP€€N LINC.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
f One Class Only.
PARKS— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Oape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7
Special Return Tickers available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THK WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
CEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
/io upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
warn
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on favorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding' five years on Freeholds or Certificated O. P’s.
and Associated C.I/s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Fall particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at an)’ Branch or Post Office Agrenct', or front
Crown Lands Agents and at the Head Office, -MOOUK STREET, SYDNEY. J. 11. Davies, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
g
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; .William Harrington Palmer. Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua(New South Wales 159, Victoria 37
Queensland 47, S mtli Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
- J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up ... ... £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. :. .. Deputy -Chairman.
Hon! H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant.: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhe'y.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
FARMERS SIMPLEX
BOOKKEEPER
Complete set of
Books in One.
Simplifies Land and Income Tax Returns, and
Keeps Your Business in Thorough Order.
Sold by Recommendation—one FARMER
Recommending to ANOTHER.
1000 COPIES Already
SOLD IN VV.A.
Price 12/6, Posted 15/9.
E. S. WSQC & SON LTD., PERTH.
Also obtainable at E. S. Wigg & Son Ltd., Ad3laide ;
Angus & Robertson, Sydney; Watson, Ferguson
& Co., Brisbane; Cole’s 800 t Arcade. Melbourne
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident! workmen’s com-
pensation; PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Dirkctoks : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M, Pratt : J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Oracken.
JAMES BORROW!!AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Royal Agricultural Hall, London, England.
CORONATION YEAR. Visitors interested should
make arrangements to attend the following recog-
nised TRADE gatherings.
The Confectioners, Bakers and Allied Traders’
19th ANNUAL EXHIBITION and MARKET,
September 2 to 9, 19JI.
The Grocery and Allied Trades’
19th ANNUAL EXHIBITION and MARKET,
September }6 to 23, t9JJ,
The Brewers and Allied Traders’
33rd ANNUAL EXHIBITION and MARKET,
October 14 to 20, 19It.
The Best Markets for Buyers.
VALUABLE COMPETITIONS and DEMONSTRATIONS.
ARTHUR T. DALE, Managing Director.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULP PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
m all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, May 27
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing- with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Infianiineka, May 20.
S.S. Allinjra, May 27.
S.S. Gran tala, June 3.
Best and Cheapest Route to Go/dflelcfs.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at theOoinpanv's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-] iED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.—H. —5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
ST£AM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “DORSET,”
11.400 Tons. W. L. Prentice. Commander
Will be despatched from 'BRISBANE - about 23rd May
„ ~ „ SYDNtCY - ~ 30th Mav
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ 3rd June
i, ~ ~ HOBART ~ 7th June
„ „ „ ADELAIDE - „ 13th June
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships; with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied wiJJi fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
PARES
£49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
11. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES : Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
“PotPourri”
stands
for
Quality
“POT POURRI” PIPE TOBACCO—
the highest product of the tobacco-
blender's art. 40Z. tins, 2/« ; Boz.
tins, 4/= ; 8/= per lb.
“POT POURRI” always the same,
always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States
ORDER NOW, and it will be posted
FREE by return, with Catalogue which will
interest you.
A. A. MARKS
Sole Agent, 376 Ceorgre St.,
Sydney, NSW.
rTIHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
~MX)AGULINE,’ 7 KLTNX,’ ‘TENASITINE'
—Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.


k EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON).
{J The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
(| Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Gable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.”
tariff Booklet gratis
at office of this paper.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET, Opposite Westminster
. /x.in/vu Abbey and the Houses
LONDON, England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/C, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 pef dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
The Tobacco that Delights the Connoisseur
NIMROD!
Made from the finest selected and sun matured Virginian leaf,
it has a delightful aromatic flavor which appeals to the smoker
who has been floundering’amongst innumerable brands trying to
find a really high-grade tobacco.
£ lb., 2/-; posted, 2/3
1 lb., 7/6 ; posted, 8/3
i lb., 3/9 ; posted, 4/3
3 Ib., 21/- j posted, 22/3
KISMET CIGARETTES.
The Cigarette That Pleases Everyone.
VIRGINIAN.
10 in a box, 9d.; posted, 10d.
25 in a box, 1/9; posted, 1/11
50 in a box, 3/6 ; posted, 3/10
100 in a box, 6/6 ; posted, 7/-
TURKISH.
10 in a box, 1/- ; posted, 1/1
25 in box, 2/6 ; posted, 2/3
50 in a box, 5/- ; posted, 5/4
100 in a box, 9/- ; posted, 9/ti
05
ANDREW McGEE,
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
FOR
THE TOP
„ OF YOUR HOUSE USE
Congo Roofing
Congo is easy matter to lay and it will last ten years or more. Two
paintings in the course of the ten years are all that we recommend. It never
sets brittle or dry. It never rots or decays. It never gets soft or spongy.
It does not change in character in any temperature or exposure. Nails and
cement are supplied free. Sample on request.
On the bottom use Congo Damp Course. Before the earth is filled in
around the foundation of your new building, cement at least one layer of Congo
Damp Course against the wall; then fill in the earth against it and your wall
will be damp-proof and vermin-proof. The use of Damp Course insures dry,
healthv, sanitary cellars at insignificant cost.
ins'NTS •—Noves Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney ; Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd.,
Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane ; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton ,
Harrold Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah Go ..Ltd.,
Perth ; William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobait, Tas.
Congo Damp Course
dfsg
\
A MANLY MOUSTACHE.
It’s bad to look too old—but it’s just as bad to look too young!
Grow a manly moustache. You can by using-
CAPILEARINE.
It forces a luxuriant hair growth—never fails, and never has failed
in 30 years of use. Just apply it at night. Not at all noticeable.
Price 10/6 a Jar. Post free anywhere in plain package.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, makes the
moustache grow a nice shape. Price 2/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
r
A
“TIIE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
hmousScKebkr Carburetor
The best Vaporising' Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to yet more HORSE-
POWER from your Enyine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF 'MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet ami all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
A HUGE SUCCESS!
birds
Custard
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Now,
retail prices are largely governed by the method of merchandising the goods*
Closely interwoven with our policy of quality, sincerity and integrity are Cash
Principles, which mainly account for the lowness of our prices and the superiority of our
stocks* With ready money available in big sums, we are welcomed in the most exclusive
manufactories, and thus our silverplated ware is always better in design, and costs less*
We countenance neither debts nor middlemen of any kind* Be sure of the quality* Be certain
of a saving* The “Treasure House ” merits
your patronage* Some specially attractive
Toilet Ware.
117670 Solid Silver Frog' Pin
Cushion, 8/6
F72B7—Solid Silver and Cut Glass
Toilet Bottle, 6£in. high, £5 15s.
E6s;i4—Sterling Silvsr
Mounted Manicure
Scissors, curved points,
8/6
-
G4B3s—Solid Silver Trinket Box, size
5 x 3J, £4
v- :
JsoBs—Handsome Silver-plated Jewel Box, Satin-lined, with lock and key, s ze 7 x fi,
3iin. high ; price £5 ss. A large select ion of other designs in stock, ranging in
prices from 7/6 upwards.
G 7960 —Solid Silver Hair Brash, 12/6 ; wilh Comb, in case,
G7964—Solid Silver Hand Mirror, same design, 27/6
J 3501 - Sterling Silver Pearl Shell Pin Tray, 7/6
(Kangaroo or Emu).
la
J4IGB- Solifl Silver and Out' Glass
Pow der Box, 10/6
GGGO7 —Sterling Silver Lavender
Salts Bottle Holder, 30/=-
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.,
(Australia), Ltd.,
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.


For Colds
and Coughs
13 Stanley Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —For colds and coughs Angier’s Emulsion is the best remedy
that I have ever tried. I am subject to colds on the slightest change in the
weather, which causes me great annoyance. As a representative of the
Buyers’ and Sellers’ Directory of Australia, I am compelled to travel
constantly from one State to another, and it is a great boon to me to have
a remedy such as Angier's Emulsion. One thing I find about it is that,
unlike most emulsions, it does not repeat or make one feel sick, which is
greatly in its favour. (Signed) W. E. MASTERS.
ANGIERffMULSION
Angier's Emulsion is a simple healing tonic that is soothing alike to throat, lungs,
stomach and intestines, an aid to appetite and digestion and an invigorating tonic and
restorative. By its soothing, healing action it relieves the cough, allays soreness and in-
flammation and promotes easy expectoration, while by its tonic properties it increases
vitality and enables the system to quickly throw off a cold and to resist further attacks.
Angier’s Emulsion is unequalled for colds, coughs, bronchitis, asthma and all lung
affections.
A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage; mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
All Are United
In saying that for all stomach troubles there is no
remedy like Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
Price 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
The unwise who are leaving this festive
country to dash in their cash at the Corona-
tion are purchasing economic wisdom at a
high price. True, all wisdom, except the
sparkling D.C.L. brand, is costly. And
after all the most desirable “wiseness” for
all occasions is that so cheerfully inspired by
D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED.
sdf
FOR THE SHOOTING
SEASON.
The Famous “GREENER” GUNS.
(SUNS
THE “ DOMINION,” Double Barrelled Hammer Gun, Half-pistol Grip, Full
Choke, Plain Finish .. .. .. .. .. £l2/15/=
THE“ FORRESTER,” Double Barrelled Hammerless Gun, Full Choke both
Barrels; Weight 71b. .. .. .. .. .. £l5/10/=
CASHMORE GUNS.
Strong Hammer Gun, Left Choke, .. £7/10/=
Hammerless, Pistol Grip, well Engraved, £l7/10/=
JJagnnerlesg, Cross Bolt Action, Fine Finish, £27/10/=
gd
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA and LONDON.
IN BANANA LAND
Digby Denham has campaigned at Rock-
hampton and Dalby during the State Parlia-
ment’s recess. The Tory majority at Dalby
has fallen from nearly a thousand to about
140, while Rockhampton has gone over defi-
nitely to the enemy. Denham is welcome to
be as proud of the results as he says he is.
From the St. George Beacon :
Time table for next week. Monday—Horse sale ;
Racing Club nominations at 8 p.m.; Dramatic Club
performance. Tuesday—First day show; annual
hospital ball. Wednesday—Second day of show;
Tennis Club social. Thursday—First day races;
committee meeting of Amateur Picnic Racing Club.
Friday—Second day races; annual general meeting
of Racing Club. Saturday—Trap shooting. These
are the main events requiring attention; there are
a few other minor events to be considered, one of
them being the Referendum poll.
God save Australia!
The whirligig of politics. During the late
Dalby election the local Leader quoted
Vowles’s election speeches in 1908, in which
that versatile candidate remarked about his
opponent, the late Speaker: “He really
thought that if Joshua Peter Bell came down
from Heaven for half an hour, he
would pole-axe his son!” Yet the same
Vowles professed during the recent elec-
tion to be anxious to follow in the late
son’s footsteps, and the funniest part of the
business was that the Dalby Herald pub-
lished a letter from Mrs. Bell (widow of the
late member) appealing to the electors to
support the candidate who, three years ago,
made that allusion to the pole-axe.
Apropos the humorous yarn that the No
majority the other day represented “the
intelligent vote of Australia,” this sentence
is worth quoting. It is from the appeal of
the Queensland Women’s Electoral League
to its “fellow women electors”
Even if j r ou fail to understand, make it a point'
of honor to go to the poll and vote “No.”
Some day, perhaps, women will get on
to juries, whereupon the hired advocate will
get up and say—“ Ladies, you probably don’t
understand the dispute between the plain-
tiff and the defendant. If you did under-
stand it, you might find for the plaintiff.
But that doesn’t matter —as you don’t un-
derstand it, you will of course make it a
point of honor to find for the defendant.” It
is a curious sort of honor; still, it is the
only sort that would fit the “Liberal” case.
“Quart Pot Charlie”: The Bulletin a
while back said that in the Hughenden dis-
trict 160 blacks have £1282 stowed up in the
bank.” Yes, it is stowed up with a ven-
geance : as far as I can find, the Binghis
are never allowed to draw out one penny. In
the Boulia district the blacks of both sexes
pay half their wages to the Department, and
some of them have from £4O to £5O to their
credit. When they want to “go walk-
about,” and request a withdrawal through
the manager, they are met by a stern refusal.
I have never known a blackfellow or gin to
regain all his or her wages after the Depart-
ment has closed in on them. The scandal,
indeed, is so odorous that some mana-
gers are now refusing to pay half the blacks’
wages to the local police, who are the col-
lectors, and are risking the consequences.
Authority doesn’t seem game to take the
matter to court.
The Port Douglas and Mossman Record
had its office knocked into a heap by a re-
cent cyclone, and it took five hard weeks
to sort the scattered type out from among
the twisted iron and the splintered timber,
and patch up other premises. When that
job had been done the boss sat down to
write a leader. He reckoned it was no
more use crying over pied type than spilt
milk; but, if anybody felt sympathetic “a
subscription in advance is the only proof we
ask.” It’s a long while since The Bulle-
tin saw it put better.
REFRESHING MEMORIES.
EXAMINER (severely): “Haven't seen you before?”
WITNESS (brightening up): “Often, y’r Worship. Em glad you remember our iolly
old times! ”
“Andax” : At an election not long ago a
polling-place was gazetted at a station run
by a Ministerial henchman. The Labor
party sent out as scrutineer a young man
employed on a neighboring squattage. Un-
der the protecting wing of the presiding offi-
cer the scrutineer was introduced to the
manager, who told him he would get no food
on the station, nor a bed to sleep in. The
young fellow got no food until the night of
the election, some 24 hours after he arrived,
and then it was smuggled to him by an em-
ployee, together with a blanket. The scrut-
ineer left breakfastless on the day after the
election, and when he arrived at the town
was told that he need not go back to his
station—the manager did not want labor agi-
tators there. This is the way some hangers-
on of the Fat party fight a political issue,
an fl then they wonder why men turn against
them every day.
Among the flotsam washed ashore from the
Yongala was a P.D. corset. Its story is im-
pathetic. It was not the relic of a young
torn from honeymoon joys by the rag-
]ng geaS- it was simply being conveyed to
a leader of fashion in Northern Queensland,
And its perfect state of preservation after
ma ny days’ buffeting by the salt seas is elo-
qUent testimony to the perfection of make
a nd ma terial which modern methods demand
even j n the most popular articles of fashion-
able a ttire.*
Crossed the bar, at Rockhampton (Q.),
M. S. Rundle, sea captain, aged 81. He was
a navigating lieutenant at 21, and was on
the Albion, one of the largest British war-
ships, when Athens was blockaded —which,
by the way, turns the history book a good
many pages back. He caught the Victorian
gold fever, but wasn’t a Eureka Stockader.
Afterwards, in ’53, he was appointed signal-
master at Sydney Heads, and was finally
sent north to survey the River Fitzroy in
’5B. And there he settled, serving as har-
bor master till he was pensioned in 1880.
“Quan” : Showers of fish and showers of
frogs are fairly common, but it was not until
the other day that I heard of a shower of
prawns. Buderim Mountain was the place
which had this new kind of drizzle.
“The Prodigal”: The rival merits of bul-
locks and draught horses are the subject of
much controversy. It is agreed that bul-
locks can be purchased for half the price of
a draught-horse team. But the pace of bul-
locks, in hot climates especially, is six miles
a day less than that of draught horses. And,
besides, on the return journey, with empty
waggons, the bullocks go no faster than when
loaded, whilst draught horses, with empty
waggons, can beat their loaded-waggon pace
by several miles. In warm climates, too,
bullocks cannot be driven in the heat of the
day, lest they should drop dead from over-
heating ; whilst the draught horse can keep
going at a moderate pace, with occasional
rests, even in the hottest day of Australian
summer. Whether a bullock can pull a
heavier load than a draught horse has not
been definitely settled. A test was made at
1 ine Hill, Central Queensland, years ago,
when two’ bullocks were pitted against two
draught horses to pull waggons loaded with
10 tons a-piece. The horses managed to pull
their waggon farther in one pull than the
bullocks ; but it was hardly a fair contest,
as the horses rerused to work under the
stockwhip, unlike the bullocks, and it was a
kangaroo dog that set them going, and was
thus indirectly responsible for their victory.
No other recorded tests of the bullock versus
the draught horse, tnat I know, have been
made under proper conditions, though no
doubt old teamsters have had enlightening
experiences of their own.
Queensland’s back-country “fighting par-
son” is now training for the amateur boxing
championships, to be held in Brisbane be-
fore the end of the year. Parson Sams is
under 10st., but he is a wiry type of muscu-
lar Christian, and his staying power is mar-
vellous. _ He is a hard doer, who walks 20
or 30 miles a day ; a hard hitter with his
tongue as well as his fist; and yet (or prob-
ably therefore) the sacerdotal favorite of all
creeds in way-out Bananaland.
His Neighbor’s Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ST. PETER oped his gate one wintry
morn
To let two mortals in;
And one was almost spotless as the snow
(The paths he’d come were trimly kept,
I trow),
And one was soiled with sin.
Yea, soiled with sin, and dark with many a
stain,
He raised a suppliant cry;
And Peter smiled and took him by the hand,
And beckoned him to where a seraph band
Sent floods harmonious by.
And noting in the other’s face surprise
That such a soul should catch the keeper’s
call,
Said Peter: “Friend, thy record’s pure and
clear,
But, if Ms roads were tMne, I deeply fear
Thou hadst not come at all!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, Mat 6, 1911.
My Dear Titargomindah,-—-
It is unofficially announced that Lord
Dudley will pass through Brisbane about
the 13th of this month, to stalk the festive
buffalo in the Far North. No tidings have,
however, yet been received at the vice-regal
residence.
Miss Byrnes and Miss McPhillamy, of
your town of Bathurst, are the guests of the
Vision at Government House, and when
they depart Society in this Banana city
will be able to say with all truthfulness,
“I tea-ed thee every hour.”
While we’re on the subject of Government
House, let me tell you of the committee of
the forthcoming children’s pageant, and how
the Vision handed it something in the ice-
tongs the other day. They had approached
Miss Macgregor with the proposal that she
should be the queen-child of the pageant—a
grown woman, mind you, my dear —and
were working the gushful smile double shifts
when her Ex. closed the application with
two or three brief facts: (1) That Miss was
not a child; (2) that she was over 21; (3)
that she was too tall. Then the deputation
hopped down a rung and bore off the pretty
little second daughter of Premier Denham
to be measured for the crown.
Mayoress Diddams is doing her very best
to make the Naval and Military Coronation
Hospital Ball a huge success. A strong com-
mittee has been formed, and Mayoress Gil-
lespie, of South Brisbane, led a further con-
tingent of females to the last committee
meeting, to swell the combined forces of
North and South. The fact that Miss Mac-
gregor presides over a girls’ committee has
given a wonderful interest to a section of the
organisation where formerly not twopen’orth
of it existed. The naval and military heroes
will make gay the ballroom, and the valuable
“handy-man” will be much in request as a
decorator. That same “handy-man” will
not, however, be pleased to hear that one
kind lady suggested, at a recent committee
meeting, that he should also act as char-
woman, and cleanse the extremely grubby
floors of Finney’s old buildings, on which the
couples will gyrate.
The Scotch picnic, in the Lucinda on Sat-
urday, was a fearsome mixture of Bur-r-r-ns,
brogue and whisky. The usual toasts, punc-
tuated with speeches, were lowered in the
cabin, and Premier Denham, the one lone
Englishman, made his best apology for his
nationality. The Premier’s speech was en-
livened by an ancient countryman of Johnny
Walker, who, catching sight of a bottle
through the skylight, hastened downstairs to
shakh hands with it. As he reached but,
a committee-man, horrified at the breach of
etiquette, sought to restrain him. “But,
hoots, mon,” said the stranger, “Ah’m as
dry as a besket.” With that he poured him-
self a nobbier and drank to Caledonia.
The wedding epidemic has in no wise
abated. On Tuesday last Mr. Westralian
Haly annexed a good Queenslander in Miss
Doris de Winton. Mr. Haly’is a son of
one of the original large squatting families
of this State. His father was Mr. C. R.
Haly, of Taabinga, and a cousin is Mrs.
Oampbell-Praed.
Architect Lange Powell has returned home
with his attractive Victorian bride, and the
glad hand of congratulation is working over-
time.
A cable, received from London this week,
announces that dentist Andrew Menzies and
his pretty little wife have been touring the
South of England per motor. While hubby
flits to Edinburgh, Mrs. Menzies will be the
guest of General and Mrs. Burrows, whose
son (Captain Burrows) recently married
her bridesmaid, Miss Aileen O’Dwyer.
Mrs. T B. Steele, of Chelmer, gathered
in a number of men and maidens on Friday
for the first private dance of the season,
and if its success, taken in conjunction with
that of a dance held in the Cafd Majestic,
and engineered largely by Miss Bracker and
other “butterflies” of Clayfield, is any guide,
Society will whirl considerably this winter.
An extra spice of interest was added to a
wedding celebrated a while ago at the Syna-
gogue, by the wrestling abilities displayed by
several well-known women who were onlook-
ers at the function. The manner in which they
clawed and pushed to gain a sight of the
bride, showed them to be no unworthy
sisters of the renowned suffragettes who
“stiffen out” the English policeman and
pursue the perspiring statesman with loaded
brollies and a rock in a sock.
Our newest Gent. One is F. M. O’Sullivan,
son of Attorney-General Tom O’Sullivan, and
grandson of “Paddy” O’Sullivan, a member
of Bananaland’s first Parliament. He is at
present Associate to Justice Lukin.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


MARK FOY’S LTD., SYDNEY.
BJ'21 —Electro-plated Nickel
Silver Cruet, 21/=
Others to 45/=
BJ22 —Electro-plated
and Crystal Honey
Jar, 6/6.
BJ3o— Electro-plated Nielcrl Silver Sugar and
Lifter, 10/6.
BJ3s—Electro-plated Nickel Silver
Toast Rack, 6/6.
II
BJ37—Electro-plated Nickel Silver
Butter Dish and Knife, 15/=
Others from 6/6.
GIFTS FOR ALL!
Useful and
Economical,
AT
Mark Foy’s Ltd.
the Home of
Good Values!
KJ23 Electro-plated
Nickel Silver Child's
Must, 10/6.
BJ28 —Electro-plated Satin-lined Jewel Case,
. 5/- Large Assortment.
BJ29— Electro-plated Nickel Silver
Carver Rests, 9/6 pair.
BJ3l— Electro-plated Nickel Silver
Kangaroo Serviette Ring, 7/6.
BJ32—Silver-plated Satin-lined Jew
Case, 3/- Others to 10/6.
BJ3B—Electro-plated Nickel
Silver Jam Pot and Spoon,
We Guarantee Satisfaction.
m
B J39—Electro-plated Butter Dish, 22/6.
8J24 Electro-
plated Nickel
Silver Mustard
Pot, 7/6.
8J25 iilectro-plated
Nickel Silver and Crys-
tal Honey Jar, 2/6.
HJ26—Electro-plated Nickel
Silver and China Sugar and
Cream, 12/6.
BJ27—-Electro-plated Nickel
Silver Knife Rests, 2/6 pair.
BJ36—Electro-plated Nickel
Silver Sugar and Lifter, 15/=
BJ34—Electro-plated Nickel Silver Sweet
Dish, 18/6.
y>
BJ40 —Electro-plated Nickel
Silver Pickle Frame, 7/6.
BJ 33—Electro-plated Serviette
lting', 3/6.
BJ4l—Electro-plated Nickel Silver
Cut Glass Butter Dish, 16/=
These Goods are Priced for Cash Only. When Ordering Enclose Money.
4s
Minutes
of Music
SIS
IB
a€di
FOUR MINU
ai
—or other entertainment, rendered exactly as produced in the original—-
completely, without hurrying or cutting or change of any sort—as com-
pared with two minutes of entertainment, formerly rendered—this is the
advantage offered by Amberol Records over Standard Records.
EVERY EDISON PHONOGRAPH
Made To-day Plays Amberol Records
—and Standard Records as well. Every Edison Phonograph ever made, with the
addition of a simple attachment, can be made to play Amberol Records—and still
retain its ability to play Standard Records.
There are many Edison Phonograph owners who are receiving only half the
pleasure that the Edison Phonograph will yield—because their instruments will not yet
play Amberol Records, and it is for these that we are making
THIS SPECIAL AMBEROL OFFER.
With every purchase of an Amberol Attachment, at prices ranging from 26/6 to
43/=, according to the style of Phonograph you have, the purchaser receives io special
Amberol Records —Records confined to this Offer, and not obtainable in any other
way. Many Edison Phonograph owners would have had the Amberol Attachment
long ago if it had not been for the immediate additional expense of buying Amberol
Records.
This Special Offer means that you are getting your start on Amberol Records
practically free. Take advantage of this Offer. Go to your dealer and have the
Amberol Attachment put on your instrument —and no matter how old your Edison
Phonograph may he it will be quite as good as when it was new.
There is an Edison Phonograph at a price to suit everybody’s means,
from the Gem at £2/12/6 to the Amberola at £45. Get complete
lists from your dealer or from us.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
(Wholesale Only). Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
v;v;%vav.v/a:.v.
Hi
B*3M
Slilll
VIYELLA
for Pyjamas.
“ VIYELLA,'' by reason
of its well-known qualities
of softness, warmth, light-
ness, unshrinkability and
durability, is just the
material for Men's and
Boys' Pyjamas*
Specially suitable patterns
or plain colors may be had
at the leading stores in
each town.
See the name “ Viyella "
on the selvedge of the cloth.
u
Viyella
•n
(Rc&d)


it
DYSPE PSIA
PAINS AFTER EATING
HEADACHES, LANGUOR,
CONSTIPATION
Dyspepsia, pains after eating,
headaches, biliousness, constipa-
tion, that fagged-out feeling, ar.d
similar ailments are only possible
when there is some disorder of
the stomach, liver or bowels.
To restore these organs to
working order, and thus rid your-
self of all such troubles, take a
few doses of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup daily, after meals, and you
will soon feel fit and well again.
This herbal tonic has no equal in
in the world as a sure and swift
stomach and liver tonic. In
thousands of cases, it has cured
after all else has failed. Try it!
YIELD TO MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
Made of roots, barks, and leaves.
“Boulevard
The Latest
and
Smartest.
99
sfg
Will not
slip at heel.
PRICES—
-14/6, 18/6 & 21J-
Pumps and low-cut Oxfords are the fashionable
Shoes for Women’s wear. The great objection to
pumps in the past has been that they would slip
off the heel.
THE “BOULEVARD,”
an entirely new style, is so cut that it cannot
slip. It is"decidedly smart, and we guarantee it
to stay where it belongs.
Prices 14/6, 18/6 and 21/=
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and
Brown. Large Tins 6d.
Write for our Booklet “ Shoelight.”
EEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran-;
1 & 3 Errol Street, Nth. Melbourne.
df
By Special Appointment to His Excellency the
ltijrht Honorable the Earl of Dudley, P.C.,
G.C.M.G., G.C.V.0., Governor-General of
Australia, and to ibe Governor of Victoria.
Barnet Class
Motor Tubes
Manufactured in Australia by experts,
and of the very best quality rubber,
are unequalled for general excellence.
EVERY TU3E GUARANTEED,
All Cars should be Fitted with
B. C. Tyres and Tubes.
BARNET GLASS
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
and ALL STATES.
“ npHE Australian thinks in Continents,because
I he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that eaters for a Continent.
16,6
gsdf
SOMETHING SOLID
FOR SOLID MEN.
Here’s a boot which will stand all weathers and the
hardest service you can possiblj' impose on it.
Made of Fay Specially Selected Box Calf, Hand
Sewn, with Extra Heavy Bark-Tanned Soles. Fay
quality throughout, and further guaranteed by the
“Fayree” Brand (Registered). Good
wide fitting for real comfort. Worth a
Pound. 1/- More if Posted.
16J6
EDWARD FAY,
Corner PITT 6 LIVERPOOL STREETS ; also
716 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
THERE IS NOWHERE SO GOOD AS
THE TARRANT,
Melbourne’s
Big Garage.
g
sdfg
sd
g
WE REPRESENT IN VICTORIA
Fiats, Fords, F.N.’s, Mercedes,
Commer Commercial Cars, De Dion’s,
Argyles, Rovers,
AND
The “ Mea” Magneto, the Leader
of Ignition.
Repairs, Accessories, Tyres, Oils, Gears, at Lowest Prices.
TARRANT MOTORS PROPRIETARY LTD.
104=112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
sdfg
THE SPEEDWELL”
3i-h.p. Motor Bicycle.
Patent adjustable Jet Carburetter,
Handle Bar Control, Ball-bearing Engine,
Efficient Spring Forks, Ball-bearing
Magneto, Adjustable Pulley.
For .Reliability, absence of noise, comfort, ease of control, and power, there is no
superior in the world to the Speedwell 3J-h.p. We have tested it under the most severe
conditions, on all sorts of roads, and in all sorts of weather, and can only say that ITS
EQUAL IS NOT TO BE FOUND. If, therefore, you are looking for a Motor Cycle
that will give you pleasure, security from trouble, and reliable service, call and see our
latest model, aiid we are sure you will appreciate the truth of our remarks. Full value
allowed for yottr old machine, and easy terms, if desired, for the payment of the new.
Call, we have other models worth your inspection.
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Corner Pitt and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
PALMER TYttE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
GROOVES.
Palmer Cord Tyres
Now so widely in demand among motorists, owe their popularity
to their wonderful construction. The Fabric is composed of
twisted Cords embedded in rubber. They are immensely strong —
practically immune from punctures, give freedom from side slip, and
will last twice as long as any other make. His Majesty King
George uses them on all the Royal Cars. “ It’s all in the Cords.”
PRICE CATALOGUE FREE.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; and at
33 BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE.
(5)
Picture Showmen!
Send for a Copy of our Complete
CINEMATOGRAPH CATALOGUE.
There’s no local work published that gives so full particulars of
all goods needed by the Picture Showman.
It illustrates and describes all the latest Projectors, and gives
detailed information about Lenses, Arc Lamps, Switchboards,
Rheostats, Carbons, Switches, Generators, etc., and gives valu-
able hints on operating that even the “ old hand ” can pick up something from.
We will send this Book to you free—on your asking.
REPAIRS.
"We repair Bioscopes, Lanterns, Arcs, etc., thoroughly
and promptly—we've a Special Staff engaged for this.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED LISTS AND NEW PROGRAMME.
JERDAN’S,
“The Cinematograph
House,”
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sen* by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accomvany.
A.D.M.M.: Sorry must decline all. “The
Visitor” gets nearest, but there are several flaws in
it. Thus “raise” won’t rhyme with “rays” on
Tuesdays—and this is Tuesday. Others too slight.
Work is sincere and graceful, but you need more
power and skill. Keep trying. . . .R. 8.: The pro-
mising batch was held over. Have retained “Home
Sickness” for revision and another reading. See if
| you can improve the ones we are returning....
Arcarlo: “Brotherly Love” is promising. Glad .to
consider further stories or paragraphs.... Bellerive:
The threatened increase in hairdressers’ charges gives
this tragedy some topical interest:
THE DUMB MUTE’S CRIME.
Have mercy, Dan, have mercy,
Appealed the drunkard’s wretched Wife,
When he in his raving frenzy
Raised a chair to end her life ;
’Twas speedily wrested from his grasp
; By his son a silent mute,
Whom grappled like a tiger
With the grim and drunken Brute.
Aroused to desperation to
Take his mother’s part,
He fiercely plunged a carving-knife
Through the evil ruffian’s heart.
The victim toppled over dead
And the dumb lad in Despair
Realised his ghastly Deed
And piteously tore his hair.
Well, he saved Is. anyhow, even if he did have to
stand his trial for murder. . . .E.C. (S.A.) : Ghost
laid in the basket... .L.B. (Hawthorn): Not suffi-
cient skill. Please select another pen-name. The
one you have has already been pegged 0ut....
J.T.F.: You have our sympathy. It is terrible verse.
. . . .W.C.A. (Chicago) : Glad to hear from you, but
the verse is weak. You can’t curse effectively in
verse.... Unknown: Sincere work, but uneven. No
stamps for return. .. .Ray C.: You mean we 11....
J.E.W.: Gladly print your protest in this column:
“Dere Editer, Wot as bekum of all them blokes
called Stock and Darey Inspecktors. I ave been
dareyin four 5 yeres and not one has kum ter sea if
my cows has got Chubercalosis or sum other diseese.
I keep my darey clean, but sum uther blokes dont.
The butter wot your nippers eat on there bred mite
ave sum Chubercalosis on it. I might git Chuber-
colosis meself by drinkin the milk wot I get from
my cows. It aint fare to us wot is dareyin wen we
dunno our cows got Chubercolosis E.C. (S.A.) :
Story lacks originality and force... .M.M.: Demented
love poem received. Have rescued four lines from
the basket:
Still my fancy wanders onward, following still the
ways of iove,
To a low dejected shanty known as Kookaburra pub.
Where a beer-besotted mongrel hoarsely whispers
“Liz, me dear,”
To a poor, demented creature, “will yer come and
have a beer?”
. ...E.D.8.: You haven’t the skill necessary to
handle such a fantastic idea. .. .C.W.E.: One will
probably do. .. .E.A.V.: “Song” unsuitable. .. .
J.W.8.: The couple don’t interest u 5.... Curfew:
Silenced.... Will W. (V.): It is interesting, but not
payable stuff. One verse from your serious poem,
“The Best Man of Them All”:
I’ve seen him in the city give a sham blind man a
quid.
I’ve seen him cry, and he wasn’t shamed and his
tears he never hid,
I’ve seen him in the country nearly kill a man in a
brawl
And drink with his rivals afterwards —he was
drunker than them all.
. ...J.R.C.: Thanks. We have an Index Of thieves
who pass off or try to pass off stolen goods on us.
Your man goes into the Index. .. .M.L.: Don’t re-
member it; but it was probably filed for reference.
Araemo: It happens that that par. was written by a
very experienced lawyer; so we guess we’ll take his
view of the practice... .Curlie: Cut out, affix date
and page, and send to Accountant, who will remit. ..
Marcus F.: Neither ; it was Mrs. Hemans. .. .R.M.S.:
Thanks ; but rio room for reprints here.... Geofred:
Hurried, cafejless work.... Diderot: Thanks; but
think we’ll let* it stand at “hustle.”... .A.D.R.: (1)
All been said before; (2) No; we haven’t found
penny postage a success in Australia, but expect to
now that it has commenced to operate. .. . A.T.A.:
May be true, but you forgot to forward a
cheque for the probable amount of libel damages. . . .
H.F.8.: None good enough, though you seem to be
on the right track.... W. J.C.: The Bird of Adver-
sity may croak once:
E’en in the darkness of the night
I breathe upon some slumbering wight
And steal away before the light.
It suggests a wandering cow sniffing at a collapsed
drunk. ...A.U. (S.A.) : We don’t know what your
poem means. Have you any inkling yourself 1... .
The Sheoak: Graceful idea, but the awkward metre
doesn’t allow you sufficient freedom. Try it in an-
other form.... Sophia B.: Too jumbled. No stamps
for return....T. Kell: Rejected with some regret;
it was a good attempt... .G.L.C.: Previous out-
breaks of the “harem” have been already alluded
to A.V.G.: Breaks no new ground. .. .A.J.F.: No,
that wasn’t your score. We’ve already paid out on
it.... Nation: (1) The tenant farmer is better off in
Ireland than in England, inasmuch as, by recent
legislation, every Irish tenant may reasonably look
forward to becoming a peasant proprietor. (2) Irish
landlords have been hard hit legislatively, since the
days when Arthur Balfour said that “Irish land-
lordism was the worst in Christendom.” To-day
the English landlord’s position is the more satisfac-
tory from his point of view. (3) In both England
and Ireland, between 1892 and 1902, the crop area
has decreased 50 per cent, as regards wheat and 17
per cent, as regards oats ; green crops in general and
forage crops have slightly increased, and pasturage
has increased 14 per cent George Dobson: Write
Secretary, Incorporated Law Institute, Sydney.
“ Lantana ” : The up-country mayor is
the gladdest thing that blooms. Know one who
rules in a decent-sized town in N. S. Wales that
could be truthfully addressed as follows :
John Blank, Esq., Master Plumber and Gasfitter, etc.,
Mayor of , Captain Volunteer Fire Brigade, Captain
Civilian Rifle Club, Captain Senior Cadets, Vice-
President Mechanics’ Institute, Member of Hospital
Committee, Trustee of Sports Ground, Patron of Motor
and Cycle Club. Member of Bowling Club, Secretary oi
Masonic Lodge, Honorary Inspector of Fisheries, Direc-
tor of Starr Bowkett Building Society, etc.
Don’t know when he finds time to plumb or
gasfit !
“10-2-4” : I carved this, with a groan of
pain, from a Sydney evening paper last week -
The modern bachelor is a domesticated person. He is
tidy, methodical, orderly, with a passion for preciseness
that a pedagogue might envy. “Sew my own buttons
on?” said a young man about town the other day.
“Rather; and darn my own socks, too. It’s awfully
rippin’ fun. I simply love sewin’. It’s so soothin'—eh,
what?”
Do “ young men about town” employ this imbe-
cile jargon? Personally, I have not encountered
the outrage in real life. But it is becoming dis-
tressingly common in the sheets that our lady-
helps best love. The peril which menaces the
community is that Cyril, the aspiring young
suburban toothsmith, deluded into the view that
this is the form of speech in use among the
ultra-smart, may unwarily employ it in the
hearing of his large, bluff, downright progenitor,
Bill Smith, who rose from the status of a working
navvy to affluence and a J.P.-ship. A probable
result in that case will be the distribution of a
dead and mutilated dentist about the scenery.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
A CIGAR is the BEST
SMOKE OF ALL!
But why can’t you get a
Good Cigar in the Country?
ALL over Australasia the only places you can
buy a really high-class Cigar is in the big
cities. In the country districts a good Cigar
cannot be had; because it’s only at the pubs that
you can buy Cigars at all in the out-back districts.
The publican knows that selling liquor pays him
better.- He reckons that his customers only call
for a Cigar when they-ve got a few drinks in and
want to dodge getting “fu’ the noo.” Any old
Cigar does for that.
So he buys a few hundred at a time from
some “back-yarder"—real “Flor de Cabbage"
with big gold pictures all over the box and
mighty pretty bands round them—made from the
waste leaf and the cheapest growths, but called
by some high-falutin’ name. (The making of these
Cigars is another story—l’ll tell you about it
another time.)
fdsg
Tb e s torekeeper or tobac-
conist in country towns does
not sell good Cigars either.
If he does, he has to add to
the selling price of the Cigar,
the maker’s profit, the profit
of the warehouseman he
buys from, the profit of the
traveller who calls and sells
them to him, and his own
profit.
So that a good Cigar
that sells in the city at 6d.
he’d have to charge 9d, for,
and not grow fat on it then,
because the number he would
sell would be small; and
good Cigars have to be kept
in a uniform temperature,
free from exposure to the
air, or else they’ll go off.
Those are just some of
the reasons why you can’t
get a good Cigar in the
country parts of Australia,
and also why so very few
Cigars are at present smoked
in the country.
Buy a 100-box of my
‘‘DIADEMAS,” smoke 5 or 1
6 of them, and, if-they’re
not as good as any 6d.
Cigar you’ve ever smoked,
you needn’t pay a penny.
That’s the way I'm in-
troducing my Cigars into
Australia. I know Cigar-
making from A to Z. I know
these DIADEMAS Cigars of
mine are just the coolest,
smoothest and most luxu-
rious smoke any man could wish for. Cigar-
smokers of a lifetime say so; and the more you
know about a good Cigar the better you’ll like
them.
My DIADEMAS are made from the very
finest, mild, rich, mellow, Java leaf, the filling or
inside heart of the Cigar being all straight long
Brazilian. The Cigars are hand made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before it
goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed to
burn free and draw easily. The Cigar is 4 inches
long, and the picture at the side is a copy of it,
exact in size and shape.
Now, this DIADEMAS Cigar is as good as
any 6d, Cigar, sold in the cities by high-class
tobacconists, as I sell it direct to the customer —
saving the cost of wholesalers’, salesmen's, and
retailers’ profit. I only charge you 22/6 the box
of 100 DIADEMAS, postage paid right to your
address.
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade. Please add exchange to country and
interstate cheques.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
£HEAP, Secondhand 15 BreakH.P.
TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” —Trade Mark of Kay's
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
Aa7
Why you should wear
99
All=wool unshrinK-
able SocKs, StocKings,
and Underwear.
Because
they are the most comfortable all-Australian-wool wear:
they are absolutely unshrinkable: they are English Made.
The process imparts a soft, silky finish which makes
wear superior to all others.
Yet cost no more than ordinary hosiery and
underwear.
“&G4oYl Socks, Stockings, and'Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
dm*- '■* In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent, to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <f>
df
the World’s Standari
Valveless Engine.
sg
YOU CANNOT AFFORD
to be without Power for your Farm
or Workshop.
Write nearest Agent TO-DAY, giving particulars of
any Machine or Plant for which you require Power
at a Minimum Cost.
A 20th CENTURY FERRO FORMULA.
LABOR minus POWER equals Small Out-
put; Small Profits.
LABOR plus POWER equals Larger Out-
put ; Larger Profits.
LABOR plus FERRO POWER equals
Largest Output; Largest Profits.
Let us Help You—with a
FERRO—to Make Profits.
Made in 3,4, s}4t 7#, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17, 25 h.p.
Suitable for STATIONARY, PORTABLE or MARINE USE.
FERRO AGENTS :
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN,
d. F. Connelly, Fort Street, AUCKLAND.
YSTERY
AJSJr>
IRT/V
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody lau<;h, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it,
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions With each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
>2
25^
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wonderful Plate=Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/-postfree.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/-postfree.
a
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
Xshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
GET A PERDRIAU
MOTOR OVERCOAT.
THERE is nothing freakish or experimental
about Perdriau Motor Overcoats. They
are perfect in every detail that makes for
warnlth, for comfort, for long wear, for appear-
ance, for satisfaction.
You ought to get one of these Coats. Every
time you motor on a cold day without proper
covering you take risks with your health, and
that is not reallv wise, is it?
PERDRIAU MOTOR OVERCOATS, made
of best quality, heavy Irish Friezes, Bannock-
burn Tweeds and Worsteds in dark shades and
good patterns. Out full, with latest style
innovations, and double breasted.
Price : With Loose Fleece Lining .. .. £4/10/-
With Soft Heather Lining .. .. £5/5/-
With Soft Heather Detachable Lining £6/6/-
Call and get one of these Coats to-day, or
order by mail, stating your height and easy
chest measurement to ensure a correct fit. We
pay postage on all Overcoat Orders.
Write for a copy of our Illustrated Winter Price List
and Sample Book of Materials. They are free.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.
“ The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
%
m
crcri'S
m
iniiiiiiininHiniinnniiiiimiiiiiiiiiiinimiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniuiiiiuiiiiiimiiiianßiiiianßniUM
BWAietA> - _ _ "I'tsmi
FIDELITAS
m
m
ivJIA-flfclfev-*
say.’
i;
s 4
1?
i^/T-
-i
as*
F.WOLFF&SOHN
■Karlsruhe
Baden
iim
i'l'Vl'l'j.i'y:
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from airleading establishments
QREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
ĝfdsgdsgfd
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and givingToneand
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing- a tendency to
b< come livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin.
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale : DUERDIN AND SAINSI3URY. Melbourne.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.


Legal Notice.
r*!o LANGDON MORCOM or other per-
JL sons claiming liis share in the Estate
of ELLEN SIBELLA BILLING, deceased.
Pursuant to an Order of the Chancerj
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
the 27th February, 1911, made in the Mat-
ter of the Estate of Ellen Sybella Billing de-
ceased in an Action wherein Harry Fitch
was Plaintiff and Caroline Gilbert (Widow)
Defendant (1911. B. 399). Whereby it
was Ordered that the following enquiry
should be made that is to say:—
“1. An Enquiry whether Langdon Mor-
com a nephew of the Testatrix is living or
dead and if dead when he died and if he pre-
deceased the Testatrix whether he left any
and what issue who survived her and if he
survived the Testatrix who by devise descent
or otherwise are or is entitled to the moiety
of the two one-fifth shares of the Testatrix’s
real estate which descended to him and who
is his legal personal representative” the said
LANGDON MORCOM or the person or
persons claiming by devise descent or other-
wise to be entitled to the moiety of the said
shares of the Testatrix’s real estate or to be
the legal personal representative of the said
LANGDON MORCOM or otherwise to be
interested under the said enquiry are by
their Solicitors on or before the Ist day of
July 1911 to come in and prove their claims
at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Warrington
and Mr. Justice Parker, Royal Courts of Jus-
lice, London, England (Room No. 252) or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday, the 4th day of July 1911 at 12
o’clock at noon at the said Chambers is ap-
pointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
the said claims.
Dated this 20th day of March 1911.
R. T. WATKIN WILLIAMS,
Master of the Supreme Court.
NOTE. —The said Ellen Sibella Billing
died on the 28th September 1910. The said
Langdon Morcom left England in a Mer-
chant Ship in or about the year 1862 and
was seen in England again in the course of
the year 1867. He is believed to have left
his ship in Australia in 1868 or. and
was last heard of in the latter year.
BELL, BIIODRICK & GRAY,
Ormond House, 63 Queen Victoria
Street, London, England,
Agents for
BEWES & DICKINSON,
East Stonehouse, Devon, England.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff (the Executor).
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that ap-
plication is intended to be made to.the
Parliament of New South Wales during the
next ensuing Session thereof for leave to
bring in a Bill to continue the provisions of
the “Warwick Farm Railway Act,” where
by EDWIN ERNEST ALLAN OATLEY,
his heirs, executors, administrators and as-
signs were enabled and authorised to con-
struct and control a Railway from and con-
necting the line of Railway from Sydney to
Liverpool with the Warwick Farm Race-
course, commencing at a point between the
Liverpool and Cabramatta Railway Stations,
distant in a southerly direction about one
thousand three hundred yards from the Cab-
ramatta Station, and thence along the land
as now fenced and used for the purposes of
the said Railway from the Great Southern
Railway line to the Warwick Farm Race-
course, situate at Warwick Farm, and to
use, work and manage the said Railway,
and to carry passengers and goods thereon,
and to charge fares and make charges in re-
spect thereof, and to do all such acts and
things as might be necessary for construct-
ing, controlling, and working the said line
of Railway, and for purposes consequent
thereon and incidental thereto.
By the terms of the said “Warwick Farm
Railway Act” the provisions therein con-
tained authorising the construction and con-
trol of the said Railway in the manner there-
in provided were thereby limited to a term of
twenty-one years from the passing of the
said Act.
The aforesaid period of twenty-one years
has now expired, and an Act of the Legisla-
ture is necessary to authorise and enable the
said Edwin Ernest Allan Oatley, his heirs,
executors, administrators and assigns to
continue the construction and control of the
Railway aforesaid.
Dated at Sydney this 21st day of April,
A.D., 1911.
P. J. HOURIGAN,
Solicitor for the said Bill,
and the said
EDWIN ERNEST ALLAN OATLEY,
Temple-court,
146 King Street, Sydney.
KsWell, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
mmm
DIUTLETTIC
KIDM&MDER'
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
g
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TONIC
Obtainable <?// Cbpm/sts
IMXTIkT
“ IJNSEED COMPO JND.”— The “sto.kporo
Remedy ” for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards
MATIN PICK WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
PEREZOFFS (7), Comedv Jugglers.
REICHEN'S PERFORMING DOGS.
OADWELL and VERNE, English Comedy Sketch Artists.
DELINO, in an Intrepid Wire Act.
BLACK and YVHITE, Lady Novelty Acrobats.
MISS PEGGY PRYDE, London’s Favorite Comedienne.
VAUDE and VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MR. R. A. ROBERTS, Protean Actor in Dick Turpin.
MISS FLORENCE CROMER CHALLIS,
England’s Clever Young Comedienne.
EUNICE and ZENA, Instrumentalists.
THE ZANFRELLAS, Equilibrists.
AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
Plan at Allan’s. J3T PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING,
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the Great Australian Drama,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 2s. and Is.
LI ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 13,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OUE, MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 13,
George Bernard Shaw’s Satirical and Whimsical Plav,
ABMS AND THE MAN.
Presented by
KATHERINE GREY, WILLIAM DESMOND,
and an Augmented and Brilliant Cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
IiUEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30;
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
HE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.MN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matin6es— Wednesday. Saturday, All Holidays.
W" IRTMS OLYMPIA.
. EVERY EYENING AT 8
M atinees-Wednesdats. Saturdays and Holidays at 2 SO.
C PENCER'SIHtATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
-a ARE SUPER.!OH TO fi/.L
Popular Prices —Plam as Usij/m —
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER ”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Ca£6.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
“The Greatest ol all Pantomimes,”
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
SATURDAY, MAY 13,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON
(By Arrangement with George Edwardes)
will present
THE HOLLAR PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
r iterion theatre, Sydney”.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE WOMAN IN THE CASE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, First Appearance in
Sydney of
Clarke & Meynell’s Entirely New Comic Opera Company
in that Notable Musical Success,
THE GAY GORDONS.
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
NOW IN ITS SIXTH WEEK,
j The Sensational and Remarkable Bedroom Drama, which
is Drawing all Classes of Sydney,
I THE BAD GIRL OF THE FAMILY.
I As so Vividly Presented Nightly, amid Demonstrations
of Approval, and Gorgeously Mounted by GEORGE
' MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Next Production—UNDEß TWO FLAGS. Adapted from
“ Ouida’s” Famous Novel. Pofulau Prices— 3s., 2s. &ls
E. D. 6d. extra. Box Plan at Elvy’s & Theatre. Reserves, 4s.
TOWN HALL, S Y D N E Y
MONDAY, MAY 15
(EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING).
SOUSA
AND HIS
BAND
PLAN AT CARNEGIE’S, 80 KING STREET,
Prices—7/fi, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-
THE LYCEUM..
—- EVERT EVENING AT 8
Matinees-Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 23o.
C PENCERSIHEATREJCOPE (?.
J PICTURES
« siac supcKioKi ro /at or/tERS. «»
Popular Prices Plan at Paungs.
New princess theatre
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER,
WEST’S PICTURES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VIOE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
ROT E S T ANT HALL, SYDNEY
Direction .. H. Smith.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 13,
The Celebrated American Orator and Author,
WALTER THOMAS MILLS, M.A.,
will give a short series of Absorbingly
Interesting Lectures on
MOMENTOUS SOCIAL AND POLITICAL QUESTIONS
OF THE HOUR.
PRICES—3s. (Reserved), 2s. and Is. Box Plan and
Prospectus at Cole’s Book Arcade.
■y HEA TR E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS in Melbourne of
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S “ARCADIANS”
CO. in
THE BELLE OF BRITTANY
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF THE COMPANY.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
sfdg
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE,
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P*ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong#
JOSIAH WEDGWOOD & SONS, LTD.
358W2
Registered Trade Mark, “WEDGWOOD.
Established at Etruria, England,
1760 A.D.
as Manufacturers of
CHINA, EARTHENWARE, TEA
and DINNERWARE, TOILET-
WARE and ARTISTIC POTTERY
of all Kinds.
IMPORTANT.— AII our Goods are
branded “ WEDCWOOD ” only. Any
addition such as “ & Go.”means you
are not buying “ Wedgwood.”
Sole Agrents for
Australasia—
WM. HODGE * SON
91a York Street, Sydney; and
29 Elliott Street, Auckland.
fd
(jIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
ostrich
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at '
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [g
ft. ft
Points
/nuentors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain this
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketcli
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
THE
IRECIS
o.h:c?l?
TfREO)
"'mi*/
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C®;
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London, England
gsdg
A
\
A
◄
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
►
/ y fs
*.
CURES
%
u>


WAVERLEY PENS
fdg
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BV STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE s
TO-DAY
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘AHenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
4£llenburgs Foods
Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Man agement F ree.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., London, £ng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
MEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
' ■ ' ’i , ■(
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
, rpHOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
X chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and^
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street. Sydney.
♦3*
PETER PEN KNOWS THOUSANDS
WHO USE THE ONOTO PEN
“ But I am still looking for the men, women and children
who have writing to do —and do it without the Onoto Ten.
“ What a pen to have —the pen that doesn’t leak.
“ It does not splutter, blot or scratch.
“It fills itself in a flash. Fancy that—no .filler —no squirt. It fills
alone—a pen on its own.
“ I could say much more. But when it’s summed up Peter Pen’s
speech is ‘ Get a British-made
Price 12/- and upwards af all
stationers, jewellers and stores.
Booklet about it free from Thos
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 167,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or
the Australasian Representative,
Norman Baker, 50 York-st., Sydney
fd
Self-Filling • -
Safety Fountain
Pen
Important.— For those who require a larger pen, with a very flexible
nib,,a special model—the new “G ” has been put on the market. Try this
new “ G ” at your stationers.
Also ask for Onoto Ink
—the best for fountain
and all other pens.
RIFE
RAM
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction truaranteed.Over 7000 in use.
If there is .a stream,
•ins: or pond within a mile— Write for Free Plans and Book
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
RIFE ENGINE CO.
New York,
D EMONSTRATO R AGEN rsWANTED
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating on ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin Alcohol, Benzine, l istillate, Naptha
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse > -ears Sizes 2-h.p. to ioo-h.p. One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE.
Write for our proposition to agents and users of power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, IS Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
gfd
\
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons*
Infants' Powders
for the
Little Princes, and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fret-
fulness and the many
ailments common to infancy
Powders Recommended by H.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF HOHENLOHE.
VON-REUX LEBEN, Marshall of the Court to H.R.H. the Duke of Saxe-Coburg,
Duke of Albany, Winter Palais, Gotha, writes:—“ With thanks for your sending Infants’
Powders, I have the honour to let you know that the Powders are recommended
by H.R.H. The Princess of Hohenlohe, for my own children."—January n, 1910.
ASHTON & PARSONS
INFANTS’ POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless—they cool the gums—comfort the child—produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep—render teething quite easy—prevent pain and disorder— '
are pleasant to the taste —are mild and gentle in action—may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe —and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
g
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H. I. H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
fdg
W Ashton ST Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, 1/1J; 60 Powders, 2/9;
100 Powders, 4/6. To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS:—ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.G, ENGLAND.
All men appreciate the comfort, the
simplicity and the absence of trouble
in using the Gillette Safety Razor,
but it is the saving of time and the
clean; smooth way it shaves that give
them most delight. ?
British made and sold everywhere.
Write for "Hints on Shaving,” sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
FLY CATCHERS.
BEST MANUFACTURE, TWO SYSTEMS.
FIRST-CLASS FIRM WANTED FOR GENERAL AGENCY FOR AUSTRALIA.
Only firms guaranteeing certain introduction of articles on a large scale; therefore, thorough
acquaintance with the conditions of the branch essential.
LARGE PROFIT CERTAIN OWING TO EXCELLENCE OF MANUFACTURE.
BEST QUALITY 1 GUARANTEED.
offers, address M N 2415 HAASENSTEIN g VOGLER A.G., BERLIN, W.S.


fifi
SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use
“SURE CATCH” is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN. It has stood the Test thus Proving its ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers of the day, and CANNOT BE EXCELLED.
“BIG FISH” TACKLE SPECIALITIES.
RODS.
Extra Quality Split Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
lianded cork strip, strong porcelain rod and end rings, best bronzed
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Fish ” Rod. feet, 57/6 each ; 8J feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A—Very Superior “Big Pish” Rod, made of mottled cane, 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with whalebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake rings,
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/- each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B—The “ Queensland ” Rod, 9J feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/-' each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as ISTESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
REELS.
No. 3C—Nottingham Wood Reels, aluminium lining and flange,
solid'.brass star back, movable check, very strong line guard. A
perfect reel for “ Big Fish.” 5 Inch, 22/6 ; 6 Inch, 27/6 ;6J inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “ Lockfast” Tension Big Fish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, optional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 Inch, 18/6; 5 Inch, 20/-,
N 0.61. 6 16 nC Finest (Quality Metal “Big Fish” Reels nickel-plated
rims and bars, inutiplying action, leather thumb brake for checking
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved with aluminium,
which greatly strengthens the reel and reduces the weight,
3£ Inch, 35/-; 4 Inch, 45/-
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all game fish. Sizes—
-3H inch, 3/3 each ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
and can be had in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6 ; 3J inch, 3/- ;
4 inch, 3/6; 5 inch, 4/6 each. . . .
No. 3—Extra Heavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red inside, mounted
"with extra strong swivels, split rings, and treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 2/-; 3J lnch. 3/; 4 inch, 3/6 each.
No. 4—Best Quality Ring-mounted Devon Baits, xx heavy and
very Strong ; specially made for Big Fish. '
3 inch, 2/9 ; 3i inch, 3/3 ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
We hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites.
Give us a trial and be Convinced.
wire: tracks.
“ Tiger ” Traces, made from liand-twisted, flexible steel wire. A Trace
of enormous strength. Size X, 1/9 each; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. I—Steel Wire Traces, U yards long, 9d. each.
No. 2—“ Hercules ” Big Fish Wire Gimp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yard, 9d. ; 1£ yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “Zenith ” Plaited Flax Lines, made from best quality material,
and are splendid lines, for all “Big Fish.” To be had in lengths of
100 and 200 yards. No. 3, 6/6 ; No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1, 7/-,
No. l/o, 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/- per 100 yards.
THIS OUT.
FILL IN THIS COUPON with your name and address, and
we will forward you* by RETURN OF POST a copy of our
AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE, the
BEST AND LARGEST TACKLE LIST EVER PUBLISHED.
The talk of the Angling world. Full of useful information.
Name..
Address .
Bulletin, May 4.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Largest and Most Progressive Fishing Tackle House.”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
_ limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only .Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of tb,eir constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
dfg
.♦ «*•
s*
w
A
•a?-?
• % 'istP we
4 Shi&JS
SiitSl^
j^'
TRADE MARKS
y
I
B.S.A.
HANDBOOK
—Australasian Edition. Contains
information of the utmost import-
ance to every cyclist. A thorough
study of its contents before buying
your new Bicycle will convince
you of the merits of the world
famous B.S.A. productions. Full
descriptions will be found of
CYCLE FITTINGS
THREE-SPEED HUBS
FREE-WHEELS, Etc.
EADIE COASTER HUBS
TWO-SPEED HUBS
A copy will be sent post free on
application to
D- Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co-
5 Stock Exchange Building
MELBOURNE
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern <SL sons
Only Universal Providers,
New Paldce Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Children
Especially
Like
The sweet, “ toastie ” flavor of
Post Toasties
Crisp, fluffy bits of perfectly ripe
white corn —cooked, rolled and then
toasted to an appetising brown.
Served with cream or milk and
sometimes fruit, this dainty food pleases
the whole family.
" The Memory Lingers ”
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
book of nature and illustrated
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
vnivinsfs, new' 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
AND ’DIVERSIONS WITH CARDS, iIIUS., IS. BEAUTY’S
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of 1 ate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
Dosted ’Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, is posted. House Painting and
Papering Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
i 6d Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ĝ
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
'-'q EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior gttidc to' the .action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-oovered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
up-bookseller to the commonwealth.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc;, Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures-
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. Tiie Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices , with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
Da. JKIYB'IISiK-ilSio'v
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
♦ ■
Write lor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
ORDER, OR
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Sonus, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloo Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, 8d, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. w.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post, loo in ew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and *
iruineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music: com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, byline,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


SHELDONS
NEW
DISCOVERY,
FOR
COUCHS &
J >Kv \Wi&r, Va
Wi-r
THE UNDERFEED STOKER.
Adopted by the Victorian State Coal Mine
after exhaustive enquiries. The most economical
Stoker on the world’s market for burning nuts,
slack, or inferior mine refuse.
Sole Agents in Australasia—
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
380 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 267 a Sussex Street, Sydney.
If you want the very best
a. *a. 8004
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION. 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Clast Drapers and Storekeepers.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning » Brighter Day
. .' f . ' . : *
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY’S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufctctured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (/ate .78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Frauds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the Prehistoric Man tried to
benefit his clan —
When he advocated iron in the place
of futile flints,
Varied persons sadly rose—
Speaking through their varied nose
They deplored such schemes with horror, giv-
ing signs and fearful hints
Of the dreadful things to be—
Thus they maundered, stodgily,
Till the Prehistoric Person rose and cursed
in bitter gall;
Till he seized his oaken club,
And departed for the scrub,
Where he forged an axe of iron—their re-
i turned and slew them all!
As he smote them one by one,
All the stolid tribe looked on —
“Bill is right!” they said in chorus, “Throw
\ away the ancient gauds.”
So the Prehistoric Man
Bossed henceforth his staggered clan —
And his people rose to honor with the Burst-
ing of the Frauds!
When Columbus wished to steer towards the
Western Hemisphere,
Rose a crowd of holy persons, who protested
bitterly: ‘
“It is certain, Christopher,”
Said the Church, “that you must err,
For there are no foreign countries to be
found across that Sea;
Yea, by candle, book and bell,
We have proved it —proved it well,
’Twere a sin against high Heaven to persist,
O foolish man.”
But Columbus sailed away,
In his ancient ocean-dray,
And he wrecked the fool predictions of that
holy caravan.
It* was most extremely rude
Of Columbus, who pursued—
Who persisted whilst they feasted with their
trulls and pious bawds.
But the Men;- it seems to me,
j Who do most for Destiny,
Are the Titans like Columbus —men who
burst the ancient Frauds,
i ,
For the Frauds must go at last—they are
passing, passing fast,
’Tis the World; against the Windbags, ’gainst
the futile, vaunted shams;
As the years go driving by,
• Dead delusions, piled on high,
Mark the progress of the species, and the
Door, of Credence slams!
i Slammetli loudly, slammeth hard —
And the door is triple-barred,
Shutting out the fool-delusions men were
slaves to long ago;
Pass the old exploded, myths
Forged by holy fetich-smiths —
Manufacturers of fetters and of sodden
creeds of woe !
Pass the liars, and their lies —
For the world with open eyes
Scans the work that lies before it—scans the
rubbish, and applauds;
Thus our patent Duty .here
Is to sweep the wreckage clear —
Let us labor late and early at the Shifting
i’ of the Frauds.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
A Chinese Whale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HIS hilt stood on the southern shore of
Twofold Bay, overlooking the whal-
ing station at Kiah. Dense mul-.
berry bushes and jungle-like creepers con;
cealed the eerie wind-racked shanties that
leaned over the hillside.- Grease and blub-
ber-smoke had evidently preserved the tim-
bers of the whalers’ homesteads against the
fierce Antarctic winds that sweep over the
southern limits of Australia.
Peter’s hut stooped ’ against a bullock-
proof fence which marked the eastern boun-
dary of a deserted cattle station. The skele-
ton of a whale-boat peeped from a roofless
house. A broken-hafted bomb-spear and
the scrap-ends of a disused oil-tank added to
the general litter, and suggested a once
thriving industry.
Peter was sitting near the hut door, his
bare feet and sea-chafed hands half covered
in the folds of a trawling net. Below, in
the surf-trenched hollow, an ancient yawl
pressed her weary shoulders against the hip
of a red sandbar. Mvriads of gulls and
inollie-hawks* clung to. she wave-worn reefs
bejond the trying-out sheds.
Peter’s voice was a shrill soprano at times,
but beneath it ran a dote- that could lift
itself when required above the music of the
humming, white squalls, that spin up** from
the southern Ice Limit.
“Fifty years ago”—his old sea-blown-eyes
puckered humorously—“we stowed our
rum under the oil tanks, and ran it to the
Victorian goldfields' whin the b’ys were
ready. ’Twas smart goin’ in those days, an’
the throqpers always enj’yed a plate av
prawns whin they looked in at the' whaling
shed.”
Peter’s skin was blue where the salt-water
sores had newly healed. There was a light
in his eyes nimble as pointed steel.
“Many ah enterprise has vanished at the
click of a trooper’s bit and chain,” I ven-
tured sorrowfully.
Peter rolled some tobacco in his palm
thoughtfully, while his ferocious black-
bowled pipe dived and scooped into if until
the weed hung beard-like over its charred
rim.
“I was thrapped wanst almost red-handed,
here in. this hut, betune five tubs av spirit
ah’ a Chinaman named Wong Hoy.
•“t’Twa's the night the Dunbar split up on
- the,jocks, an’ ’twas. black as the thrimmins
hyv a funeral party. God save us, ’twas
' horth Atlantic weather, Wit’ wind from the
pack ice. But a good night, me son, for
overlandi'nV rum. Five tubs., in the corner
beyant: Barney Cash and Ennis waitin’ for
the cart to lift it away.
“Cash an’ Ennis were good lads, foot,
han.d an’ eye. ‘D’ye hear the wind?’ says
Cash, huggin’ the fire. ‘ ’Tis like the feet
av mountains sthridin’ over the sea.’
“The rain tore through the shingles; the
tide was at the door soppin’ the flure where
we'vSpt. ; Ennis lay on the table listenin’,
..hie small eyes half shut, a revolver under the
cuff av his coat. The ears av a rat had
Ennis, an’ the eye av a thracker whin cir-
cumstances provoked his sinsibilities.
“‘Hush*!’ says he, kickin’ Cash Wit his
toe; ‘the ghosts are walkin’.’ .
“The door opened, an’ the wind licked us
like the wet tongue ,av a wolf. ‘God spare
us!’ says Cash. ‘Fwat is it?’ *'■'<, >:
“The face iv a Chinaman came through
the door: the rain was dhrippin’ from his
bald head; the eyes av him looked at the
three iv us.
“ ‘Come in,’ says Ennis, widout movin’.
‘Fwat brings ye on the bache to-night, John,
says he, 1
“The Chinaman looked scared av some-
thin’ : ’twas like as. though a thunder-clap
had shaken his bones. The wind roared
in upon us, an’ the lightnin’ jumped blue
acrossvhis owld eyes.
“He' was thravellin’ along the coast towns
Wit’ fancy goods an’ joolery. ‘You let me
Slay here lillie while?’ says he. ‘Welly bad
night outside.’
“ ‘Be seated, John. We wouldn’t turn a
dog adrift in such weather,’ says Cash.
“‘Nor a tlirooper either!’ An’ Ennis put
away his. gun wit’ a laugh.
• “We shook up the fire an’ brought out the
cards. -We played an’ waited for the cart
to take away the illicit spirit in the corner.
“The Chinaihfin lost an’ won at euchre.
The money stood in a small heap in the mid-
dle av the table. At midnight we heard a
thrimingus noise outside; ’twas like hell’s
horses dhraggin’ the. drowned ships from the
bed iv the sea. We took the hurricane-lamp
an’ ran out, an’ the. waves flew upon us in a
blindin’ smother av foam.
“ ‘Mother av Ilivven ! Look !’ says Cash,
swingin’ high the lamp. ‘Look and be-
hold !’ says he.
“We stood by watchin’ an’ listenin’ to. the
blowin’ av It, as the walls av sUrf battliered
an’ slammed it ashore. Mud an’ flyin’ shells
cut the., air in front of us. ’Twas like a
giant tlirashin’ the beach wit’ a bullock’s
hide. It rowled an’ fizzed an’ slashed the
sea in halves. An’ through the roar av
wind an’ water we cud hear the breathin’ av
It. : -n ■ .
“The, killers had dhriven it ashore—a half-
murdered 'bull whale swimmin’ in its own
blood an’ grease.
“ ‘Are ye game to hit it under the fluke
wit’ a harpoon?’ says Barney Cash to us.
“ ‘I am not,’ says Ennis, dhrawin’ back.
‘Time enough to sthrike whin the sea goes
down an’ the sun is up.’
“Tlie big wounded bull whale lay there
while the surf thrashed it into a blind'
spoutin’ heap. Goin’ back to the hut we
heard the rattle av the cart over the hill
yondfer. Jim Cash, whip in hand, came in,
his face black as thunder whin he saw the
Chinaman sittin’ nver the fire.
“ ‘Ye yellow scut,’ says he. ‘I saw ye
connivin’ wit’ a tlirooper at Bega awhile
ago. Ye damned spy, get out av this!’
“The five tubs av spirit stood in the cor-
ner ay the hut. An’ Wong Hoy made a
bad defence whin we pressed home the charge
of spyin’. The divil got hold av him as
we threw him from the hut. He struck Jim
Cush wit’ his shut hand, an’ the two brothers
knocked him to the ground. ’Tis strange
how a small clip under the ear will make a
Chinaman lie still. . ....
“ ‘He’ll pull round prisintly,’ says Ennis,
pourin’ whisky into Wong Hoy’s open
mouth. Barney an’ Jim Cash sat by the
fire howldin’ their chins an’ suckin’ their
lips.
“ ‘He will wake up,’ says Jim, lookin’ over
his shoulder at the big stiff hody* on the
flure.
“ ‘At the Judgment trumpet,’ whispered
Barney. ‘I sthruck too hard,’ he says,
stoopin’ over the fire. ‘Too hard an’ too
quick.’
“Where will ye bury him?’ asks Ennis
widout looking up. ‘lf he was in the pay
iv the police they will follow him here.’
“‘The. black thrackers will run straight
to his grave whether ye bury him'on a hill
or in the sea!’ cried Jim Cash. ‘A man
may cover his sins, but ’tis hard to hide the
dead:’ -
“A dead Chinaman is poor company on a
wet, howlin’ night. An’ the fear av the
black police set our minds goin’. The five
tubs of illicit spirit an’ the dead Chinaman
was enough to hang us all. Barney Cash
was first to see an end av the throuble. He
stood up wit’ the firelight in his eyes, his
dhry lips crackin’ wit’ fear and divilry.
“‘D’ye not see how ’tis to be worked?
Come wit’ me, b’ys, while I conduct yez
to the grandest funeral iv the century.’ He
took Wong Hoy in his arrums an’ walked
into the blindin’ wind an’ rain.
“ ‘Come to the funeral,’ says he, looking
back at us. ‘An’ for ever howld your
tongues.’
“’Twas no business av mine to follow those
men. Ennis took a spade an’ ran after
Cash. There was no need to ask what was
done. Anyone could guess.
“They found the big bull whale gaspin’
in torment on the beach. Ennis levered
the jaws open wit’ the spade, while Barney
Cash rammed the dead Chinaman into the
gullet.
““Twill be the Big Sea mystery av the
thing is found out,’ says Cash, slappin’ the
whale on the head wit’ the spade. ‘The tide
will cover our thracks, an’ the police will
kape a mile from the whale whin the sun
comes out.’, ,
“They came back to the hut an’ dhrank to
the health av the whale an’ the Chinaman,
while the cart waited by the door an’ the
five tubs av spirit stood like five publicans
in the corner beyant.
“‘lf I’m thrapped carryin’ the stuff over
the hills,’ says Jim Cash, ‘they’ll hold me
in gaol till Wong Hoy is found.’
“ ‘Then,’ says Ennis, ‘let us hide the five
tubs in the belly iv the whale until mortifi-
cation sets in an’ dhrives the constabulary
out iv.. the district.’
“Barney Cash seconded the motion, an’
we dhranlk to the health av all good strong
whales that kape away poor wake policemen.
“We took the tubs to the beach one by
one, and cut a tunnel under the big fluke
wit’ an axe an’ blubber spade, an’ rowled
tbd illicit spirit fair into the belly av the
brute. Barney was a bricklayer by thrade;
he tuck-pointed the corners iv the whale,
an’ but for the dead Chinaman stretched
in the dark gullet, he ,wud have v planted
threes an’ a verandah to Cover up the
openin’.
“We slept through the next tide an’ the
next, until the hammerin’ av the throopers
(Continued or± next page. -X


dfg
atHOME&atWORK.
ACCIDENTS will happen even in
the best-regulated families.
Healthy youngsters seem to be
always “in the wars ” ; house-
work abounds with mishaps for
busy wives and harassed mothers ;
and the bread-winner often returns
from work with a more or less serious
injury. Just what every home needs
is Zam-Buk. A pot and a bandage on
a handy sheif, where they are handy for
instant use, save untold pain, time and
money.
When the little one runs in from hisi play with a wry *X£ ,nS Wh?n
filled scrape on his knee, simply wash the part and w *^ k Wb«m
father cuts or scraoes his hand, the handy pot of Zam-Buk again meets tne
emergency, and the housewife or mother continually finds It a
for the burns she receives while cooking, the scalds of a washing-day,
knocks and bruises of dusting. .
Children like Zam-Buk because it is cooling, soothing and pleasant. * “fil
v.iue u soil more highly because it is also antiseptic and a powerful
germicide, preventing "poisoning, festering and disease ; because It Is a natural
skin-repairer growing new tissue in Nature’s way ; and because It Is good forthe
tenderest Daily mishaps make Zam-Buk a dally need, therefore keep
Zam-Buk handy ” is a sound home motto.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
CUTS, BRUISES and SORES.
Mr. J; Turnbull, of 29 Shemel Street,
Waterloo, Sydney, says: “I am a
carpenter by occupation, and am con-
stantly knocking- my hands about. Cement
and lime get into the cuts and sores, causing
them to fester, and, if neglected, would
necessitate my leaving off work. Prompt
application of Zam-Buk, however, gives
instant relief. My children have also found
Zam-Bbk invaluable for burns, cuts, bruises
and chicken-pock sores, allaying the irrita-
tion and inflammation of the latter com-
plaint in a very short time.”
A MOTHER’S PRAISE.
Mrs. Jones, who resides at Albert
Park, Hartley District, Lithgow,
N.S.W., says : “ Zam-Buk is the ever-,
ready healer in my home for cuts, burns,
bruises, scalds, sores, chafed hands and other
troubles, and I have found nothing- to equal
it. I have tried many other so-called healers
from time to time, but found none to com-
pare with Zam-Buk. No mother should be
without a pot handy in the home .for use on
the children, as they are always hurting
themselves one way and another, and Zam-
Buk comes in very useful.” . 1
Zam-Guk Is Invaluable for
eczema, ulcers, ringworm,
bad legs, rashes, erup-
tions, pimples, sores,
and all injured and
diseased oondltlons of the
sKln and tissue. Of all
ohemists and stores at 1/6
and 3/6 per pot (3/6 holde
nearly four times the 1/6),
or from the zam-Buk 00.,
30 Pitt Street, Sydney.
■ A
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding; day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion* If, on the other hand
that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the shin generally you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
Matchless for the Complexion-
at ( the hut door woke us.
“ ‘Good mornin’, Cash,’ says Sergeant
Cunningham, easily. ‘Have ye seen an owld
Chinaman about here lately?’
“ "Twould puzzle me to see anythin’
smaller than a camel this mornin’, sergeant,’
says Barney, rubbing his eyes. ‘Have ye
seen the whale, sergeant?’
“ ‘I have not,’ says the throoper, holdiu’
up his head. ‘I have learnt sobriety in
me time, and I have learnt,’ says he, ‘how
to begin the day wit’out seein’ whales.’
“An’ away he rode wit’out spakin’ an-
other word.
“Ennis said no word, but stared open-
mouthed across the beach. The high tide
had swept it clean as a well-broomed flure.
The whale was gone, dhrawn out by the
big undertow.
“Two hundred pounds’ worth av oil, an’
five tubs av spirit,’ says Ennis bitterly.
‘ ’Twas worse than dhrownin’ a goldmine.’
“ "Twas a chape funeral, anyway,’ says
Barney Cash.
“No more was said, although ’twas
mighty harrud to think that so much good
liquor should go asthray.
“A month afterwards I met O’Donnel, the
whaler, in the pub at McCrossan’s. From
his top boots to his greasy guernsey he was
covered wit’ flies —big brown whale flies
that followed him from the beach.
“‘Did ye hear av the catch last week?’
says he, ‘near Cape Dromedary?’
“ ‘I did not,’ says I.
“ "Twas the best thing iv the season,’
says he, drawin’ a blubber fly out av his
beer. ‘A dead bull wliale dhriftin’ north
wit’ a crowd iv sharks bitin’ their way
clane troo the middle. We gave thim har-
poons for lunch, an’ cleared thim off. We
took away eighteen barrels av pure oil an’
fiye tubs iv whisky !’ y
“ ‘A quare kind iv whale, O’Donnel,’ says
I. ‘How dy’e account for the whisky?’
“ "Twas a Chinese whale,’ says he, flickin’
another fly from the beer. ‘An’ ye’ll say no
word to the boys whin I tell ye that it was
thravellin’ wit’ a long pigtail sthreamin’
from the blow-hole!’ ”
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
The Wrecker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
REAT place, the Murray, for a man
I T wot’s ’ad ’is fill o’ the towns —like-
wise fer a man the towns ’as got
no use fer. Plenty o’ fish, rabbits, game—
wot more could a feller want?
“I lived on the river fer years, 'tween
Swan Hill and Nyah—Tyntynder they useter
call it. Tent on a bit of a knob right on
the Victorian bank, which was a island
when the floods was up. And they was
floods there, too —places about there you
couldn’t see land, an’ the lay of the stream
was mud-dark to all but the old river ’ands.
Work? Oh, now an’ agen —on a station
out at Stony Crick on the Noo South side —
just to satisfy me conshunse with a excuse fer
livin’, an’ to get a bit o’ tea and flour, which
don’t grow wild on the Murray, though a lot
o’ things does, or grows tame in the home-
stead gardens.
“I was great pals with the crew of the
Sydney, tradin’ ’tween Swannill an’ Mil-
dura. ’E useter take notes, as I’d tie to a
bit o’ wood, an’ chuck to ’im as she passed,
an’ sometimes ’e’d chuck me a answer, or
maybe a parcel or a paper. Me camp was
on a steep bank, as I tole yer, an’ jist where
the channel come acrost the river, so the
boat c’d come right in close. Letters? Me
people was at Mildura, an’ I’d done time —
never mind wot for- —an’ I didn’t - want to
bother ’em ’cept by writin’, which didn’t
seem to ’urt their feejin’s as much as a
sight o’ me.
“Any’ow, one trip a noo skipper gets
command o’ that boat, an’ when she
comes puffin’ up I sees me pal in
the steerin’ box showin’ the boss the
road. They calls it the road, anyway.
It seems the old capting, who useter steer in
close fer my special benefit, ’ad kicked the
bucket or somethin’, an’ this bloke ’ad got
’is job. Well, me pal, the deck ’and, brings
the tub in close, as per usual, an’ chucks
me me mail. I chucks a note on a stick
back to ’im, ’e ’avin’ to let the wheel go fer
. a minute to ’tend to me. Then that skipper
surges a million. ’E rouses a treat on me
pal fer comin close (‘dang’rous navigation,’
’e calls it), snorts on me standin’ on the
bank an’ replyin’ similar, collars me note
an’ tears it up, an’ chucks the bits in the
water.
“Well, ’e was still talkin’ to me an’ ’im-
self when ’c spots my dawg yappin’ along
the bank. ‘l’ll settle yer, yer dog’s dog!’ ’e
roars, an’ pumps a charge o’ duck shot inter
the pore brute. Course I talked to that
skipper fer keeps then, an’ found I ’adn’t
forgotten me early trainin’ in cursin’. But
’e on’y put ’is tub up stream and puffed away
larfin’. I buried me on’y mate where the
floods wouldn’t wash ’im out, an’’ sat down
with me ’ead in me ’ands, to think out
gettin’ even with that capting.
“An’ it didn’t take me long to work out
’ow. It was full flood then, an’ even the
knowin’ old skipper (the decent one, I
mean) had tole me w’at a ’elp the light o’
me camp fire useter be to ’im at night,
pickin’ up the track through the big lake
the swamps made about there. I let the
ole Sydney pass on her trip down, an’ see
me camp in the usual place, in case me
friend the dog shooter ’ad sense enough to
smell a plant. But the day before she was
due back fer Swannill I shifted me camp to
another island a few ’undred yards back
inter the swamp, lit me fire at dark, an’
chewed over the yarns I’d read about crook
beacon lights an’ uncharted rocks.
“There was a billybung ’tween me and me
old camp, an’ now it was near as deep as
the river, but it was full o’ snags—any num-
ber of ’em —beauties, stumps big as a hut,
an’ all heights, an’ dead gums, all shapes,
an’ layin’ all roads. I was ’fraid the crew
might be at the wheel, an’ might keep the
track if the clouds went, but I knew ’e’d ’ave
to work at Mildura an’ Euston, an’ again
at Swannill, an’ ’ud want some sleep on the
trip. So I chanced that.
“Anyway, the ole push-an’-pull comes
gruntin’ along some time after midnight, an’
I c’d see —in course I was watchin’ fer ’er—
be the steerin’ box light that the noo skip,
was at the wheel. r Now,’ I prays, ‘keep
yer course by my fire, as the ole capting
useter.’ An’, sure enough, ’e turns in with
my blaze on ’is close right—must a been
tole to steer by it, as I ’oped. Anyone but
a noo chump would a tumbled they was off
the track by the quicker way on the boat out
o’ the main channel; but ’e didn’t. E come
snortin’ along the billybung three-quarter
speed a’ead.
“She noses along shinin’, till —wallop !
she gets into the snag nest, an’ leaves arf o’
one paddle on a lovely stump. The healthi-
est end of a log got the balhnce of the same
paddle and settled it, but those boats. is
geared to work the paddles separate for
sharp turns, an’ the other one didn’t find a
snag. But they likewise wear their steerin’
fixin’s on the side, an’ a pokin’ limb kept
’arf o’ that a bit further on.
“Wot with seein’ that dog potter takin’
’is boat into that fam’ly o’ snags, thinkin’
wot the bosses at Swannill ’ud say to ’im
fer smashing up one o’ their boats on ’is second
trip, an’ larfin’ at the general circus, I was
fair doubled up. Then a low-down tree
spoilt the shape of ’er wheel ’ouse, frightened
ole Harry out o’ the capting, an’ bent ’er
funnel doo south, an’ I was clean ’elpless. I
larfed meself ’oarse watchin’ the tub’s
capers.
“She was goin’ strong. The crew was
used ter bumps, an’ was on’y just wakin’ up
ter the fact that they were gettin’ more than
a fair whack; an’ the genius in charge didn’t
’ave the savvy to shut off steam —or p’r’aps
he was jammed in wot was left o’ the wheel
’ouse. But when she bumped an’ scraped
clear o’ the timber an’ banks, an’ got into
straight water, I got serious quick. I saw
that ’er curvin’ course, with one • paddle
an’ the steerin’ chains euchred, meant a
bump for wot stopped ’er. All of a jump I
see’d my bank was goin’ to stop ’er, an’ I
didn’t care fer to .share those few yards o’
dry land with a rampin’ Murray steamer.
Sure enough, she come in a sweepin’ curve
bang at my island, an’ from the tree I’d
shinned up, without waitin’ to see if the
curve was graceful, I watched ’er charge
that bit o’ ground full belt, grindin’ my punt
out o’ sight, an’ pilin’ up with ’er battered
nose on wot useter be my tent.
“Me pal was jerked wide awake be this
time, an’ I ’ails ’im. ’E cuts the Sydney’s
small boat at the back loose, an’ sneaks
over to me tree. ‘Get!’ ’e says, fierce like.
‘Boss’s gone mad, an’ frightened me with the
gun into blamin’ you. He’s round t’other
side the boat now, with both barrels loaded,
lookin ’fer you. Get out with the boat —I’ll
tell the old chump I got wet tryin’ to get
her back.’
“Did I get? Well, I’m here now.”
HILARION.
Ringy Ringy Rosy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
<< 7DINGY ringy rosy," the morning skies
-* »- are blue,
And yonder by the slip-rails your sweetheart
waits for you.
The lizards on the fences are basking in the
sun,
The Wintertime is over, the Summertime’s
begun. :
“Ringy ringy rosy," round and round they go,
The glad and happy children of thirty years
ago.
Those cool and frosty mornings, oh, I remem-
ber well
The wattles by the wayside, the warnings of
the bell,
The manna ’neath the gumtrees that show-
ered overnight
From Nature’s secret sources*, to make a
child’s delight;
The yams for which we rooted, the quinces
hard and tart
We swapped for tops and marbles, a fallen
log our mart!
u ßingy ringy rosy” —across the years I
hear
The voices from the schoolyard uprising
strong and clear;
And all the proud achievement, the failure
and the strife,
That make the sordid total of this our
mortal life ;
The pomp and human splendor, the Future
and the Past, j '
When weighed within the balance seem! little
things at last.
To be a World’s Immortal, to be a world’s
unknown,
Win monument of marble, or simple slab
of. stone — ;
How little matters either, when every foe
and friend
Must come to lie together in quiet 4t the
end!
W hen pays each generation, of high or
humble birth,
Its tribute unto Caesar, its dust untio the
Earth!
“ Ringy ringy rosy ” —beyond the lanflfs and
seas
We carry our delusions, we bear our mem-
ories.
The world is full of pleasure, the world is
full of pain—
Alas, the golden morning that never comes
again !
“Ringy ringy rosy,” round and round they
go,
The blithe and merry children of thirty
years ago.
“Ringy ringy rosy,” a requiem it seems,
In saddened notes recalling my boyhood
hopes and dreams.
The silver song of Childhood! Who would
not give to be
A child again, the harvest of all thb land
and sea?
“Ringy ringy rosy!” I hear the sweet refrain
Re-echoed in the morning across the years
again.
“Ringy ringy rosy,” the fields are wet with
dew,
And yonder by the slip-rails your sweet-
heart waits for you;
The briar by the wayside is turning to the
sun,
The Wintertime is over, the Summertime’s
begun.
“Ringy ringy rosy,” round and round we’ll
sing,
Our simple songs of Childhood, the Children
of the Spring.
VICTOEIA.
E. J. BRADY.


The
Engine
For STATION
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetta
' or H'. .j‘s
Vaporiser.
dsf
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
x—lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 'The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DINNEFOROS/
* Magnesia
g
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous inli-
tations purchaser*
must see that
“Dinneford&Co."
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
an rl ( '* rn vnl
Safest And most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
L'EiTHMyiEfl
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,
dfsg
Works s
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt, i hey glide
oyer the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
m
frJOHRISS I
hree Witches
CtpAßlTTf®
vittWS*
10
londflD
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
The'Standavd Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in cue sine. 1596.
CURES
Austrian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S> GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
gi
i(oSv
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
r A safe and simple remedy for'
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations ot ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure y ourself
, Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
„ Tbs Evus Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
D.S .L
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Golds. Loosens phlegrn. Allays irritation.
ASTHMA CURE
6RIMAUUS INDIAN CIGARETTFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, N ervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedintelv
relieved by -G KIM AULT & Co's IKDIAN OIGA&
ETTES. Sold, by all Chemists.
YOU OUGHT TO KNOW
m
m
m
mi.
i
Beecmam's Pius
ARE
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
■' '
ALL SHAPES
l/- EACH POST FREE 1A
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
srnvEY.
S TOREKEEPERS * TOBACCO/VfSTS
SHOULD SOW FOR OUR TRADE UST\
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperientthey remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste. poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any- good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids, are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the- Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coughs and
Odds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing'.
. i
v
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE * BREAKSPEAR
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
fdsg
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cure£ the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name
fs
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature’s Gift.
fiAv?
budcotree
PORT
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is— we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Grqwers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


g
OIL
Cures
RHEUMATISM
and Bodily Aches and Pains.
Of all Chemists and Stores
rjIHE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
JL Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
Willans & Robinson, Limited,
For...
Electrical Generators,
Blowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
sfdgfsd
g
sfdg
For. ..
High Pressure
and
Pressure Steam.
AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. [3
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
•ir
MARK
The STRUNCEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a miard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V„ VL Packet of Twelve, 6d;
of Ten. fid.
TANGYE Oil Engines
Copy of Testimonial received from Mr. P. Squire,
"Cowra, N.S.W.
“With the ‘Tangye’ Oil Engine and Wolseley
Sheep Shearing Machines, erected for me this
year, I have gone through the shearing without
a hitch. \ y ,
“ I am more than pleased with the Engine and
Machines and the erection of same.”
mi
fds
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
IS THE WORLD’S BEST.
Competition has only tended to emphasise this well-known fact, as
improvements which.have recently been added to the machine have
established beyond any doubt the right to claim for the “ Wolseley ”
the title—
THE PREMIER SHEARING MACHINE.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND CATALOGUES.
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine
is a particularly well-built and Substantial
Engine, and SPECIALLY SUITED TO
AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS. Numbers in
use in N.S.W. driving Pumps, Circular
Saws, Chaffcutters, etc.
For Shearing: Sheds.
gfds
g
sds
g
sdfg
dfg
df
Miller’s Point, SYDNEY
gd
fg
for Every Possible Service
\
v;
Boiler Feed, Tank or Light ServiGe*
Mining, Horizontal and Vertical.
Hydraulic Pressure, Combined Air
and Circulating Pumps, Single
and Duplex.
fdg
p ,
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants.
STREET, SYDNEY
SHOP REQUIRES A GOOD TOOL
Lodge 8 Shipley LATHES are Specially Made for RAPID PRODUCTION.
know mors
about them.
•V v. • -• wwzaan
.
Wk
g Street, Melbourne
NOYES BR
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFUTH
St. George’s Terrace, r "«l *l.
7 Piric Street, ADELAIDE.
“KING-LOC”
STEEL DROPPERS.
No Ties, Wedges, or Staples. Won f t Burn.
sfd
THE GYRAL ORE SCREEN
‘ * , k * ' , \\ , ' ‘ 1 . ' ' J -
Ease of Installation, Small Power Consumption, Great Capacity.
RECENT INSTALLATIONS s
Block 10 Broken Hill, Broken Hill Proprietary,
Blackwater Mines Ltd., N.Z., and other Leading Mines.
s
THE “ GYRAL ” is the only Ore Screen which exposes the
Mineral Particles alternately to Screen and Wash Water.
g
263
ST., SYDNEY;
ST., MELBOURNE.
sfdg
f
ƒ
gsdf
