

IWAR’S-the whisky of whiskies
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
__. « —FOB—
Mining 1 and Contractors 5 Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
.SxxttJx t-
Diesel
Oil Engines.
Very Economical.
Uses Crude or Unrefined Oil.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. 0. DELAND, Bowman’s Riders.. Adelaide
japßAgrr,
got
fiadley
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *V.
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici <& Son, Ld,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
zĝd
It
Take
back,
I must have
it
9
ďsg
m
A
OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
J
HANSENS
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prixe Medals.
aUb.
Oe
&Oly 'fast*.
fcfe 2%/ jottnbCJ cuaJL .
4
Sl A
s
S
9 a*' S
\
*
&
k
:
£
<z>
2
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
sgd
ďsg
is tlie Queen of all Cocoas
TO\
lAroma^trengiKt'Puritx
The Outcome of Years of
Scientific Research.
Cool to dwell under
Safe to rely upon
Impervious to all weathers
I
1
1
Combines Every Quality
Necessary to make a
Perfect Roof.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY,
OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
C. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
cream Coolers, butter factory requisites.
Hills.
ĝd
F rag'rant
as tKe
Heather.
fd
The Bulletin
V01.32.—N0. 1613.]
[Thursday, January 12, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO. PROP., LTD.,
238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Edwards : Toll of the Arctic Seas, 12s 6d, posted 13s 3d.
E.P S * Our Stage audits Critics, 6s, posted 6s od.
Qreeb'v : Mod. Business Training, 4s 6d, posted ss.
Slumlord : Dawn of Character, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Dillon E.: Porcelain, and How to Collect It, ss, p. 5s 6d.
Lodge,' Sir O.: Reason and Belief, 4s l 6d > P°^ ed 5s - ~,
Yeisrh : Through the Heart of Canada, 12s 6d, p. 13s 6d.
Lawson : Highways and Homes in Japan, 15s, p. 15s 9d.
Ilannay, D.: Ships and Men, 7s, posted 7s 6d.
O’Donnell, E.: G-Yiostly Phenomena, 4s, posted 4s 6d.
Rees, J. D.: Modern India, 7s, posted 7s fid.
Argyll (Duke of): Yesterday and To-Day in Canada, 7s,
posted 7s Bd.
Young, N.: (Jrowth of Napoleon, 14s 6d, posted 15s 6d.
Frost, EL: Art of Roadmaking, 14s 6d, posted 15s fid.
Fitzgerald: Dickens and the Drama, 6s, posted 6s fid.
5d Plates In Each Volume,
E OF HOLLAND.
'
posted
EOPLE Ol
6s. 9d. each.
EGYPT.
HUDSON’S
“ EUMEHTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthoi Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
f
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea, or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. Agencies in all
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
The RED PAGE
Fancy Farm —Neil Munro (Blackwood). The
early stories of Munro had about them a poeti-
cal atmosphere something like the Celtic
mist which envelopes the prose of “Fiona
Maeleod.” This book is just a whimsy;
rather uneven ; but worth reading for the
sake of one charming creation, Penelope.
Bracken —John Trevena (Alston Rivers). Dart-
moor has been pegged out by Trevena as his
little bit of the earth, and in that limited
area he makes a few people move slowly
through a drama of strong interest.
The Mocking Bird : An Entertainment —Edwin
Pugh (Dymock’s). The lighter side of the
literary life as lived by Mrs. Lorimer Wake
and her husband makes good entertainment.
The “daymares” of Wake, the author, are
neat squibs ; but one of them —a controversy
on the works of “Ibid”—was anticipated by
“The Red Page’s” review of the works of
“ Anon,” three years ago.
Pongo and the Bulk —Hilaire Belloc (Constable).
A clever satire on the British party system.
“Pongo,” leader of the Opposition, is chased
by a bull at a critical juncture, and a well-laid
scheme gangs agley.
Obiter Dicta —Augustine Birrell (Angus and
Robertson). The first and second series of
these well-known essays in one volume at
2s. 6d. net.
Leaves from the Note Books of Lady Dorothy
Neville (Macmillan) —Reprint at Is. (cloth)
of the first book of gossip by one who has
lately published a third volume of the same
kind— Under Five Reigns.
Blake— G. K. Chesterton (Duckworth).
Twentieth Century Literature
No very good book has appeared, in Eng-
lish at all events —for Eskimo literature I
shall not attempt to speak—during the last
10 years. I make that preliminary state-
ment boldly and uncompromisingly; but I
hasten to add that no very good book ever
does appear after you have passed your 25th
year. From the solid vantage-ground of
middle-aged wisdom you may despise the
fatuous young ass who, a dozen years ago,
had the impertinence to bear your name,
and who—save for those grey hairs and
an honorable wrinkle or so—superficially
rather resembled yourself ; you may rejoice
to have kicked so many of his youthful
enthusiasms out of doors ; but there is one
thing you must envy him : his thrill of
delight when one of his favorite authors
came out with something new. Are the
young bloods of to-day capable of a thrill ?
I suppose they are; but, Lord! what is
there for them to be thrilled by ? Do you
remember, my respected friend and contem-
porary, with what anxiety we waited and
watched for the next Scribner, which was to
tell us what new devilment the Master of
Ballantrae had been up to? Do you re-
member with what tremulous delight we
slashed open the pages of the new National
Observer, when we knew it might contain, as
like as not, another Barrack-room Ballad
by young Kipling, or at the very least an
article—heavens, how good they seemed !
by old Henley? No use rushing for the
magazines nowadays ; we cannot —with all
the will fn the world, we simply can not—
work up a thrill over an article on eugenics,
or a story by Charles Garvice, or a poem by
Tomkyns, that promising young bard. The
other day I re-read half of Stevenson to see
whether it was possible to renew the ancient
rapture. I found my admiration, at times, as
keen as ever, but the dewy morning freshness
of it had vanished, and by that token I knew
I was middle-aged. .. . But this preamble
grows tedious; what it is intended to sug-
gest is, that if one seems to speak with de-
ficient enthusiasm of the decade’s crop of
books, it is simply that one is 10 years too
old to speak about them at all.
* * , * *
Without making any apologies for egoism
—everyone who scribbles at all is a sublime
egoist, for he assumes that other people are
anxious to hear his opinions—l propose to
make a rough list of what seem to me to
have been the literary events of the last 10
years. Before you can take a quiet view of
the period, you have to set Bernard Shaw
on one side and induce G. K. Chesterton to
be quiet. The clamor of those two masters
of the art of self-advertisement has led
many people into the mistake of taking
them for the events of the time. They are
the heads of a new literary school, which I
shall venture to christen the mountebank
school. I use the word mountebank in no
disrespectful sense, but simply in the sense
in which Shaw has had the candor to apply
it to himself. I have a hearty admiration
for both of them ; they are both men of
genius. A man more nimble-pated than
Chesterton has rarely existed on this
planet; and Shaw’s displays ,of men-
tal agility are at times dazzling. The
Napoleon of Notting Hill is as closely
packed with wit and humor as Man and
Superman. And yet we can take neither
writer seriously—at least I cannot. I can
take the violent-colored rays of philosophy
which Shaw has stolen from that arch-
mountebank, Nietzsche, not a whit more
seriously than I can take that very anti-
quated and orthodox costume which Ches-
terton contrives to wear in such an original
manner. The feats of these intellectual
acrobats have set us all gaping ; but already
the intelligent begin to fina their tricks in-
sufferably wearisome. The same may he
said of Hilaire Belloc and of the whole
mountebank school.
Contrast with these personages, who can-
not do the simplest piece of work without
making a din to shatter the welkin, the un-
assuming manner of G. Lowes Dickinson,
a writer who has come so quietly that very
few in Australia have even heard of his
arrivfil ; and even in London I had some
difficulty, a couple of years ago, in getting a
copy of A Modern Symposium. And yet, if
I had any reputation for critical sagacity, I
would cheerfully stake it on the prediction
that 20 years hence, when the names of
Shaw and Chesterton are forgotten, the name
of Lowes Dickinson will be held in high honor.
In his best books—l may name, besides the
Symposium, the earlier Meaning of Good and
the later Justice and Liberty —he uses the
dialogue form ; and he handles the philo-
sophic dialogue as no one else has handled
it since Bishop Berkeley—l had almost
written, since Plato himself. He has the
secret of a prose the most beautiful, I think,
that is written to-day ; and the thought is
everywhere worthy of the form. The only
other writer of the day, so far as I know,
in whose work philosophic depth is so com-
bined with richness of style, is George San-
tayana ; the publication of whose Life of
Reason remains in my mind as one of the
events of the decade. From the purely
philosophic point of view, I suppose the
event of the period has been the coming of
pragmatism.
* # * *
Alfred Noyes is, I suppose, the most con-
siderable of' the English poets who have
made their appearance in the time ; at least,
the recent two-volume “collected edition”
of his poems seems to indicate that his pub-
lishers, at any rate, take him seriously.
And, really, there are things—a few—in
those two volumes which must be taken
seriously and which only a poet could
have written. He is a poet, as I
read him, of genuine lyrical gifts, and of a
quite damnable facility; and he remains,
despite the somewhat premature collected
edition, a promising young man. And there
are several other promising young men, such
as Frederic Manning, for example— men
who may go far, but who have not gone very
far yet. For me, however, the poetic event
of the decade was, not the appearance of a
new man, but the appearance of an old
man in a new dress. I speak of The
Dynasts, by Thomas Hardy ; one of the
memorable achievements of our time, as I be-
lieve—and I could give reasons and reasons,
were this the time and the plate for them.
If I were not keeping strictly to English, I
should say something, too, about the aston-
ishing verse of Mine, la Marquise de
Noailles.
* * * * *
I dip so seldom into contemporary fiction
that my opinion on this subject is even more
worthless than on others ; and I do not
know whether I am uttering a paradox or a
platitude when I say that the only English
novelist who can really be said to have
achieved during our period is H. G.
Wells. I know, of course, that he
had done distinguished work long before
the period opens; but the Wells of Tony-
Bungay, Ann Veronica, and The New
Machiavelli seems to me to carry enormously
heavier metal than the Wells of The Time
Machine and The Island of Dr. Moreau, good
as those early books were. To this period,
too, be it remembered, belong Wells’s five
admirable and persuasive little books on
cocial reconstruction. I have been told on
very high authority, and I can easily believe
it, that Wells is at the present moment the
most widely influential of living English
writers.
« * * *
Has the poverty of contemporary literature
driven us back, more and more, on the
literature of the past? How else, shall we
account for the amazing and unprecedented
vogue of the reprint ? (Everyman s Library
is a characteristic adventure of the day.)
And how else are we to explain the fact that,
in the field Of literary history, a greater mass
of good work belongs to these 10 years than
to the preceding 50 l A glance through the
first six volumes of the Gam,bridge History of
English Literature will give you some idea of
what has been done in this region. George
Saintsbury’s monumental History of Criticism
and his only less weighty History of English
Prosody are triumphs of erudition arid some-
thing more; and though we may wish the Pro-
fessor’s efforts to show us that he can carry
that enormous load of learning without per-
spiring were a little less obvious—his strenu-
ous vivacity is rather wearing !—still, he has
achieved two classics. Another monument
of erudition is Courthope’s six-volume His-
tory of English Poetry , which is not rendeied
less interesting by the fact that the author
is out of sympathy with romanticism, and is
therefore deaf to what most of us think the
loveliest music ever wrought of English
words. In his Oxford Lectures on Poetry ,
and still more distinctly in his Shakes-
pearian Tragedy, A. C. Bradley showed
himself a critic of the very first rank.
Speaking of Shakespearian books, I rank
Harris’s The Man Shakespeare, an infinitely
audacious attempt rather than a deed accom-
plished, was extraordinarily interesting ; and
Professor MacCallum’s Shakespeare s Roman
Plays was a very thorough and a very satis-
fying piece of work.
* * * *
Another sign that we are being driven
back on the past is to be found in the vogue
of the volume of reminiscences, by old
ladies like Lady Dorothy Nevill and old
gentlemen like Oscar Browning ; of the gos-
sipy memoir disguising itself as history —the
Love Affairs of Marie Louise, and that sort
of thing ; and the faked-up “ biographical
study ” of a personage whose biography has
already been but too often written. Of
genuine and valuable biographies during our
period there have not, I think, been very
many. It is too late to speak of Morley’s
Gladstone and too early to speak of Mony-
penny’s Disraeli. If lam to pick out those
which have most interested me personally —
and I can see no better method of selection
—I must name the memoir of Henry Sidg-
wick by his widow ; Herbert Paul’s Froudej
H. B. Binns’s Walt Whitman; and F. W.
Maitland’s Leslie Stephen.
VIC.
WALTER MURDOCH.
The Old Ballads
What every reader knows as The Bal-
lads belong to the most democratic of all
arts —the poetry made by the people for the
people. The larger and best part of British
folk-songs came from the lowlands of Scot-
land ; how and when, nobody knows.
Learned editors have disputed about their
origin and compared them with the volks
lieder of other European countries ; but no
one has traced the early McGregors and
Smiths who shaped the beginnings of them,
nor the McTavishes and Browns who added
to them. They are amongst the greatest of
the works of Anon ; they seem to have
sprung up, as Meredith said in The Amazing
Marriage, “like mushrooms from a scuffle
of feet in the grass overnight.”
Whether improvised at ye ancient song
and dance, or fashioned by a wandering
minstrel who “ ’eard men sing by land and
sea, and what ’e thought ’e might require ’e
went and took ” —the same as the greatest of
living balladists—does not matter now. We
know, however, that we are not likely to get
again the wild air and natural magic of those
unique narrative lyrics which grew in the
Border Country somewhere in the Middle
Ages. There is little artistry in them, or
rather, they were made with that uncon-
scious art which is concerned wholly with
the subject and approaches it directly. The
appearance of conscious art in such ballads
as •• Kin m out Willie,” “Helen of Kircon-
nell ” and “Tam Lane” gives reason for
supposing that they were vamped up or
patched by modern craftsmen. Rossetti and
►Swinburne caught their spirit, and it is com-
paratively easy to imitate their simple style
in the traditional ballad-measures—couplets
with four accents or four-line stanzas with
alternate lines of four and three 'beats. But
no modern ballads can be like those which
sprang from an unsophisticated people
before the days of printing.
Since the publication of Percy's Beligues
in 1765 an event largely responsible for the
re-birth of romantic poetry in Britain, there
have been many collections, down to the
very complete and scholarly one of Professor
Child in 8 vols. (1864). Child gives rather
too much of a good thing, for the Ballads
not only contain repetitions within them-
selves, but repeat one another, and he prints
the different forms in which each ballad has
survived.
Quiller-Couch has made a selection from
Child for The Oxford Book of Ballads
(Clarendon Press, 6s, net) which will serve
the general reader better than any other
book" of the kind. Allingham’s Ballad Book
is the only other handy collection ; but it is
less than half the size. In the case of
“ Child Maurice,” one of the great inventions
in narrative verse, Allingham has a better-
version than “ Q.,” and has omitted the use-
less final stanza which “Q.” inserts; but
The Oxford Book is preferable in most other
cases because it sticks to the hides! looking
form. Besides, it has “ Cospatrick, the
Arthurian ballads of Gawaine, “The Nut
Brown Maid,” “Mary Ambree,” the de-
lightful “ Golden Vanity ” :
A ship I have gob in the North Country,
And she goes by the name of the Golden Vanity,
And I fear she’ll be taken by a Spanish ga-la-lee
As she sails by the Lowlands low.
and a good many others, not in Allingham’s
book, which no lover of balladry should be
without. Some of the Robin Hood stories
could have been spared, but it is difficult to
understand why “Q." omitted “0 Waly
Waly.”
John Masefield
The nautical ballads of Masefield, which
were printed in a shilling booklet some years
ago and met with ready appreciation, re-
appear with some new verses in Ballads and
Poems (Elkin Mathews, 2s. 6d. net).
This little book contains some of the best
verse of recent years—the finely colored
“ Cargoes ” in a new metrical form ; the
long, swinging lines of musical monosyl-
lables :
“ I must go down to the seas again, to the lonely
sea and the sky,
And all I ask is a,tali ship and a star to steer her
by ;
And the wheel’s kick and the wind’s song and the
white sail’s shaking.
And a grey mist on the sea’s face, and a grey
dawn breaking.”
—and this slow song of the Spanisli Main :
It’s not the way to end it all. I’m old, and nearly
blind,
And an old man’s past’s a strange thing, for it
never leaves his mind.
And I see in dreams, awhiles, the beach, the sun’s
disc dipping red,
And the tall ship, under topsails, swaying in past
Nigger Head.
I’d be glad to step ashore there. Glad to take a
pick and go
To the lone blazed coco-palm tree in the place no
others know,
And lift the gold and silver that has mouldered
there for years
By the loud surf of Los Muertos which is beating
in my ears.
—with a number of others reminiscent of
capstan chanteys’.
The love poems alone are good enough to
build a reputation on, and Masefield is also
a dramatist and.novelist of ability.
His latest novel, Lost Endeavor (Sydney
Book Club), is a tale of a man and a boy
seized in Deptford and sold to the American
plantations away back in the seventeenth cen-
tury. Their adventures with Indians and
pirates have an air of novelty and are told
in a vigorous manner.
The only fault of the book is that the
separate adventures of the man, Then, are
given as a tale told to the boy when they
meet, again. The author has not allowed
time for such a long story to be told, and
Theo’s memory of documents hurriedly read
is incredible.
Here is a passage from the story of Theo,
ex-schoolmaster, dreamer and pirate. It
is a good example of Masefield’s way of
getting his effects :
He was a great man, my master, but he took
the yellow fever, far away from the doctors. So
he died, in a lonely l\ouse, far from Spanish
Town. He died at dawn in a room with a bang-
ing shutter, for it was a windy morning And I
was left free, with only his clothes dangling froni
the wall, like a hung man, for company, alone in
that lonely house, I tell you the forest came all
round the house, green, very green, a wall of
green, going high up, a darkness of forest. And
if you looked at the forest at first you thought it
was all green, green gleaming m the sun, green
almost golden, a green sky with the macaws like
scarlet stars. And if you looked longer, it was not
green at all. No, no. It was black. Black as
the black bars on a tiger. A night of black. A
piece of night into which dawn never broke.
Some years ago “Boarding House Geo-
metry ” went the round of most newspapers
in English. An American Euclid postu-
lated that “A pie may be produced any
number of times,” that “ Any two meals at
a boarding-house are together less than two
square meals,” and that “ On the same bill
and on the same side of it there should not
be two charges for the same thing,” with
definitions and axioms to match. Hardly
anyone knew the author’s name at the time ;
but lie has since turned out many other
amusing sketches which have been freely
stolen, and at length he puts them into a
book— Literanj Lapses— with his name on
the title page—Stephen Leacock (Dymock’s).
Though of the lightest kind of humor, the
contents are well worth the reprint. It is ad-
visable to dip into them now and then rather
than swallow the lot at a sitting.
Art and Architecture, for Nov.-Dec., 1910,
has an article of particular interest to local
artists. It is a criticism of the recent Society
of Artists’ show' by an Australianised French-
man, Paul Wenz, who has taken more than
an amateur's interest in painting and can
w r rite well in two languages. “ X-bred,”
however, may be good shorthand, but is not
an improvement on “crossbred” in print.


f.
| Anthony Horderns’ for
No. 1004 Dish, Electro-
nialed and Cave*, China
Di«b p J7j/6,
Flower Vase, Electro-
Silver-plate on Niekel
Silver, with Opal Glass
Vase, 10/6.
No. 993— Breakfast Cruet,
Electro-plate on Nickel
Silver, four Cut-Glass
Bottles, J23/-
fTSugar Basin and Scoop,
I'BHectro-Silver-plate on
((Britannia Metal, hand-
-SQs&sly engraved, 18/6.
II
3V
lland.**me Flower Stand, with-For.rr Glass Tubes,
on Britannia Mtf#!., 35/-
Satisfaction in Silverware.
sfu.. .99!) -iDjftner Cruet, Electro-
Ata Nickel Silver, ,Glass
©o.t.t.lfiSj 6 QI-
No. 1040—Knife Rests, Electroplate
on Nickel Silver, 3/6 pair.
No. 104!)— Entree Dishes, Oblong Shape, E.P.
on Nickel Silver, loin., choice design, 85/= pair.
m
No. IQo^7— Butter Dish, Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, Crystal Glass Dish, 7/p.
No. 989— Combiri ation Frame, Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, ti vo E<rgcups and Spoons, Gold-
lined Butte r Dish, and Knife, 19/6.
Dinner Cruet. Electrify >late on Nickel
Silver, six Cut-glass t .ottles, 35/-
"Sugar Basin and Scoop, Electro-Silver-
plate on Britannia Metal, pretty design,
16/=
)
No. 998 Dinner Cruet, Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, Cut-glass Bottles—four
Bottles, 35/=; six Bottles, 48/6.
No. 1000— Revolving
Electroplate on Britannii
Chased—four Bottles, 14
Bottles, 15/=
Bottles to fit Revolving
■Bd, *nrl I/- each.
Cruet,
i Metal,
■/= ; five
Cruets,
35P0. 'lool Cruet,
Electroplate <mi Jin tan hi a
Metal, ifive Bottles, »Chased,
:31V- '
No. 1002 Revolving Cruet,
Electroplate on Britannia Metal,
Chased—four Bottles, 16/=; five
Bottles, 18/6.
No. 976— Single Jam Dish, Electro-
Silverplate on Nickel Silver frame
rich Ruby Glass Dish, 7/6. ’
Jam Spoon, Electro-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with Pearl Handle,
1/8 each.
Sfa. 5963— Epergne, Electroplate on Britannia Metal, Cut-Glass Dish and
Vase, handsome design, 72/.
3ffo, '100,5 Butter Dish,
JElectroplate on Britannia
Metal Frame and Cover,
Crystal Glass Dish, 12/-
,Butter Knife,
lElectroplate on
fsickel Silver, with
~Pearl Handle,
1/8 each.
No. 992— Breakfast Cruet,
Electroplate on Nickel Silver,
three Cut Glass Bottles, 7/9.
No. 98S—Egg Frames,
Electroplate on Nickel Silver,
four Cups and Spoons, Gold-
lined, 26/- ; six Cups and
Spoons, Gold-lined, 37/6.
No. 1024— China Biscuit
Barrel, mounted Electro-
plate on Nickel Silver,
choice design, 10/-
No. 1021— Oak Biscuit Bar=
rel, mounted Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, 16/=
No. 996— Dinner Cruet, on Nickel Silver, four
Cut-Glass Dottles, 20 /»
,y;/iS?=S
No. 1013— Single Jam Dish, Electroplated Frame
and Cover, Crystal Glass Dish, Chased design, 10/6.
HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit tins wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Comer of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
Sydney Branch Office at
7-
yi
4
£Anste
tjefweerj you and your Tricycle
is a saddle of some sort.
To get full service from
the cycle, and perfect
comfort for the rider, there
is only one sort of saddle
BROOKS
Of all Dealers.
ƒď
POSTAL INSTRUCTION
Are You Ambitious?
fdgf
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank. Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
v/e will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
AUSTRAL AERATED WATER Machines
g
fgd
There are ten times as many Austral Aerated
Water Machines in use to-day as any other make.
The Austral Machine is used by all the leading
Hospitals in both Sydney and Melbourne.
Being manufactured here, duplicate parts can
be obtained without delay.
From 250 to 300 dozen of superior quality
Aerated Waters can be made daily with these
machines.
All machines are fitted with the turnover
syruping rack.
Our latest machjne is a distinct advance in con-
struction and usefulness on any other machine on
this market.
Write for illustrated and descriptive catalogue.
Manufacturers^ LEY & SONS*
3 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
r a /in tUa Mutual Prirtrifl /fi.
Established l c i9.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
£ifllADlJloniW a iX" 1
HAS MONEY TO LEND City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), o” 'of fhoAuV-
?raha V nS n tates t or e New t 2ea?knd 9MT* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST-
Our new Deed aTyTnT . .
up to .0 per ce • 1 Chairman': Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.uo., Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F.E. Wmchcombe M.L.0. .
Short Esq, : The Hon. James Burn, - M-L C ary ’ : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. general inainager a H. W. APPERLY, Secretary-
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNET. -
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have, on their hist appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or'
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE s
,i *
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street. Sydney.
Clements Tonic Saved Life
It may Save Yours if You Need Health. Read this Wonderful Letter.
(Exact copy of letter received.)
CLEMENTS TONIC LIMITED.
It is with the deepest feeling of gratitude that I write to tell you.that.in my
opinion Clements Tonic is a remedy of most marvellous powers and the most
wonderful medicine known.
I have been for 28 years in business in Hobart. lam well known to every-
one there and 24 years ago I was taken very ill with Hydatids of the Liver,
which resulted in several serious operations, and which led to continuous ill-
health iafterward” . Like a sick woman will, I tried many experts and their
medicines, and these failing, I resorted to advertised medicines, without regain-
ing my health or strength.
NEtt e VreakLown Sfz'ffits. 8 ' chbonk? SmR
Sis OFIIMP POO™rrßriTEt„d 'INDIGESTION. I could not
across the room I was so weak; in fact, I thought I would never be able
to attend to my business again.
Seeing Clements Tonic advertised, I decided to try a bottieandfounditto
oH- like magic in giving me an appetite and better nerve strength, so 1 decided
tocontinueTt! andEs the result: To-day lam alive and well Although
this critical period of my life happened 24 years ago, I am here in «
to day thanks to that splendid medicine, which cured me of a ££ ent ?
snerdfied in this letter, NERVOUS BREAKDOWN IN PARTICULAR. I
had no more sleepless nights, and in a few weeks, after taking strong
and well and used to rise in the morning as happy as a lark. 1 can give'.
the names of dozens of Hobart citizens who know these words ag ate
name of the chemist there who sold me the tonic, Mr. A. P. M , P
Street, Hobart, and from whose pharmacy I have often bought it since.
I always recommend Clements Tonic to persons
know what it is and what its use means for women, and I hope you will use this
letter in the great cause of suffering humanity.
(Signed) MRS. MINNIE NIETOM,
Witness to signature:
Mr. F. Fowler, J.P.,
Enmore, H.S.W.
132 Liverpool Street,
Hobart,
21st November, 1910.
01e m ?nteTonic^te9tirnonieS r^ r ®^*j^°"^ c *-{J ; e p r Qy e^ e^^
whilst on a visit to S>d y, K » . u nnn if. \a to the run-down man or woman continuously
oat of sorts and HI. throug-ii wo 3« irreffU i ar i t ies. Women who have a tendency to anasiiua, sick
constipation, sluggish , nervous breakdown, the result of fever, periodic illness or shock,


We Ask
“wny i
COUGH?”
ďg
dg
fdg
Q. What is good for my cough?
A. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Q. How long has it been used?
A. Seventy years.
Q. Do doctors endorse it ?
A. If not,we would not make it.
Q. Do you publish the formula?
A. Yes. On every bottle.
Q. Any alcohol in it?
A. Not a single drop.
Q. How may I learn more of this?
A. Ask your doctor. He knows.
Ayer’s Cherry Peelers!
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co„ Lowoll, Mass., U, S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
/DISTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITI
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-.
Proprietors, 443 Bourke
Or by post from
St., Melbourne.
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
vyriteusjor Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
1003*
LET US CURE YOU
OF
varicose!
veins!
¥F you have learned to look upon
y°ur Varicose Vein affliction
as incurable, you will have to
alter your point of view. A few
years ago, but temporary relief, and
then only by recourse to the sur-
geon’s knife, was all a sufferer from
this complaint could expect. Now,
the knife is obsolete.
The Vecsey Method of
Treatment offers, not only
permanent relief, but an absolute
cure, even in the very worst cases.
A treatment of local application
only, it rapidly relieves and readily
and successfully cures whenever
used. It is a painless method, and
essentially a home treatment which
does not interfere with your daily
duties nor require you to lay up.
No matter if you have suffered for
years, it will afford you permanent
relief, and a few weeks’ application
will produce a complete and lasting
cure.
Consultation
FREE.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins
Varicose Ulcers or Eczema CALL
and interview our chief consultant.
He will explain the treatment to
you and will advise you free of
charge. If you cannot call
send 2d. stamp for free illustrated
book giving full particulars.
Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
The Vecsey Varix-arium,
104 Linden Court, Sydney
(comer Castlereagh and Market Sts.)
ĝd
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonningfcon’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BOWWINGTOW’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking UD coinrhc , .. . „
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventi„g"serious lSng troubiel ’ g
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask tor and
Bonmngton s Insh Moss-there is no remedy “just as good.”
ask for
[3
o’lrtl/rrtn convenient.
BICKFORD S Essence of Coffee,
OUR. JACK Brand. . Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR //ft
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
BOV R I L
The Supreme Achievement in Beef Concentration.
INFINITELY SUPERIOR TO MEAT EXTRACT OR BEEF TEA.
BOVRIL is supplied to the Brliish Admiralty and War Office, the India Office
and is used in over 2,000 Hospitals.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
gdfg
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC.
A GLASS oS"
iORuCK’S]
Halted nilK
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing S’ Invigorating.
*5 Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples: 82 Pitt St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK CO.
Slough, Eng.
(USA)
- s
[Mexicaii
Walnut
«stain
Of
Orey Hair
LBN
USA
MEXICAN
WALfIUM
fm
Urey Hai
A young- face looks
old if it is surrounded
with grey, faded or
dead-looking hair. Dr.
B. Allen’s U. S. A.
Mexican Walnut Stain
will make from 10
to 20 years’ differ- BB
ence in your ap-
pearance if you are
grey or prematurely *
grey. It is perfectly
harmless and easy to
apply, and will quick-
ly restore the hair to
the natural shade of
youth. Contains no
Lead, Mercury, Silver or Sulphur.
None genuine without the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley.
All Chemists.
ĝfd
There was an old maid of
Prahran,
Who thought she could
capture a man;
"All I want’s a clear skin,
I’ll take GOLCRYST and
win! ”
Now she's Mrs. Jemima
McCann.
QOLCRYST consists of Salts, Senna, Sarsa-
parilla, Dandelion, Liquoricp, and Gintrer
and is sold every where in 3d., fid. and 1/-packets’
vr i'^ e t 0 P |o P r ' e t°rs, Rockk, Tompsitt & Co
Melbourne, for free sample. GOLCRYST is th'p
best blood purifier known. 1 1S
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease irom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
ot soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Tull Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
a. a
Points
/ni/Qntors
LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con.
cerning the obtaining of Patents,
... r» , and the best means of keeping the
ltles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward'
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (ki-
eluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such'report
and all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Streep Melbourne.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being; a curse in your home and a nuisance to
your friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S. VV.). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street, Melbourne : 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [3
CHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.J
A Psalm of Patience.
All things come to him who waits.— Proverb.
0 kid ! with face of healthy tan,
With lunch-bag’, books and slate ,
You needn’t long to be a man,
Self-confident and great;
For ever since the world began
Each boy must follow Nature’s plan,
Must worry through as best he can—
Make up your mind to Wait.
0 young galoot! you find it rough—
This iron hand of Fate !
Your confidence is mostly bluff,
And doubts preponderate—
Are you the actual all-wool stuff?
Are you a daisy or a muff?
Patience ! you’ll find out soon enough,
If you can only Wait.
0 baffled bjoke ! with no resource ;
Whose knowledge comes too late ;
Whose prospects change from bad to worse,
Till Hope, gives place to Hate !
Sick of existence, and perforce
Impatient for the long divorce
You’ll get your call in proper course
Take my advice, and Wait.
O geezer ! drawing near the test
That none may obviate ;
Don’t waste your time in fruitless quest
Re man’s post-mortem state.
That doubt will soon be set at rest
You’ll be extinguish’d, lost or blest,
Or spook the world from east to west
Meanwhile, you have to Wait.
GROPERLAND.
TOM COLLINS.
The Broken Toy.
The smitten soul went up from earth with a sigh
of deep relief; h
The painful body ceased the throes that wracked
men s hearts with grief •
smU,! " p,he *'■
ga ™ h tte °“
lM ° f e »‘ h '
No^»th!:sS! of tl,e Bkies cou,d m ‘ u ‘ h
Th °«hl C J a „ d in i°^ eS ° f golden lj ght, its twisted
shape was plain,
And broad across its splendid breast there welled
a purple stain.
UP His eye—° d UP ° n HiS thr ° ne ’ with an " er in
“ G °W b h Ck! G *l ba , ck! Thou shameless ghost.
Who gave thee leave to die ?
H lS self to’slay h felonious hand > essayed thy-
When I, thy God, decreed that thou shouldst
live another day ? ”
The it'spake SP ° ke t 0 itS G ° d 5 r ' ght heavil y
‘‘^body’s^ th ° USand ii,S f ° r thafc P oor
Xt h wan e t r s e un^ed e ; for meatS ’ With lusts and
It went in fear of pestilence, and walked in wavs
of dread. -
StrUgf?led ° n; in m any pains
It ate and drank and toiled its term, and dreamed
of vain delights ;
And ii a the Y side Smote h ' P and thigh ’ and galled ifc
WlC died U |’ incurable disease— then it rebelled, and
“ SO fiet r S“d ßainslitscre “ s ' lhou!!h Io "e its
In f ftsG°oT Superstitious wa ys. in patience with
And so its soul went up to Him, who sits in judg-
ment high— J K
And here are You who sent me forth ; and here
returned, am I. ’
Now say the wondrous words that roll in mystic
magic form,
Thou God, who sit’st in endless peace and stirrest
up the storm ;
To Thee material change and stress is impotent
and vain— F
What gain to Thee in forming things for fiendish
sports of pain?
“To Thee all things were elements; and where-
fore make them burn
To turmoil of activities ere they to rest return ’
And wherefore sit’st Thou mid them all who
knowest peace is best,
And rest ?” ate theSe USdeSS toyS ’ Th ° U ruiner
The God stared on the smitten soul, and reeled in
His high place;
A light, intelligent with doubt, passed strangely
on His face. ° J
For long on that rebellious ghost in wondering-
wise looked He; 8
Then, with an alien mercy spake, and bade it not
to be !
And in the spaces all grew still, as though their
vastness slept,
Save for a moan among the stars as of a God that
wept;
A mighty, helpless, futile God who grieved His
ruined toy ;
Cursed with the curse of making things He must
Himself destroy !
VICTORIA.
O. G. A. CoLLES.


Combination Couch and Bed.
v ci 7e when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size wne
v- >
CLOSED AS COUCH
mm
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of otAet ’ fa
exceptionally strong and durable.
Tost the thing for offices,-
small rooms, or where' an extra-
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and sidi ar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, t© 1
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 os. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK
. SYDNEY.
Edition of “ON THE HOP!”
Cheap
Frick
2/6
■Po^acrfl—N S W., 7d. : other States, 1/2.
Postoge T HE B CLLETIN Office,. 214 George Street, Syrkey.
Dwyer’s High-Grade
Vehicles
are a Delight to the Eye
and a Pleasure to ride in.
ď
Awarded Over
600 First Prizes.
Factories
CROWN street^wollongongk
144-6 KING STREET, NEWTOW*, »
The Goldfields Offload Mm
“ "CSm: ana water machinery
Sole M.iu.l.ot™™ Tte J C D r m/A“c*“rr D «L"or., R«k and Air B-.« Drill..
„„„ ■*- -”- ,1 “ to “ ap “ ,,on pp
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
B6civin&f Roller Skfttcs.
Used exclusively in all of ta“SdtaneV" ,n SoHARpSqN
SKATES hi
KICHAKDSOiN
CHICAGO
phase couldyou lei me
/ude some oFyour fme Wool
tor mAustralian Knarne
Mills 'pure Woollen
UnderWear
o5^N,
yiiDERWti
</
m
Y
to
fV^dr/.
0 y*/Cd' ,
%T
Absolutely PURE
WOOL Underwear
for Australian Men*
Women 8 Children.
GUARANTEED UNSHRINKABLE.
“ MADE IN AUSTRALIA.”
S. ** „„ r Registered Trade Mark, “ GOLDEN FLEECE,” is o„ every garment.
STOCKED BY ALL REPUTABLE RETAIL HOUSES.
If not obtainable locally, communicate with us direct.
Made
our own Mills, Richmond, Victoria.
\ Sole Proprietors
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS, LTD.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Packet of pen
X, 6d'
sd'
&
™ «~“es & x ac “ m '
AMttlla Cigarettes,
ĥf
hf
gh
jf
Stewart DawsoiuC.
Australia Ltd.
Strand Corner,
412 George St., Sydney.
SUPERIORITY OF THE WA ™ ES ™
X factured by Stewart Dawson & Co. .a due to
1 the tact that every modern appl'ance is used
in their production. The highest sk,
perfection of workmansh.p, us,ng “ k ** wledge
material and the best mechanism that k g
and capital can command In their construct,on.
pvfrything the best, and nothing
but the best, is the motto of the firm.
For illustrations and details of our Watches
see Catalogue. It’s free on application.
Both the QUALITY and VALUE of
Stewart Dawson’s Watches
are famed throughout the
COMMONWEALTH.
m
m
VS®
3SSS
E 1-5
cur E xce,slor Keyiessjngrnsh Lever is -
surpassed by anj ient reliable and
i&C&Ssszi&z. a ass
ta^ fi rawaMWS2»a
exerci j Prip.p. ' £4/4/-
“ THE QUEEN LEVER.”
This is a high-grade Lady’s Silver
Lever Watch.. It is not an ex-
pensive Watch, hut. it s one that
Tve can recommend to you as a
first-class timekeeper. It s a Kej-
less, Jewelled, f-Plate Lever, with
nicely engraved Sterling Silver
Cases. Hunting Cases £2/10/-
Open Face, £2/5/-
nor catch in the regulator pins should the
watch receive a jar. Sterling £2/10/-
and made extra strong. Special i i ice, £2/1 /
“THE PRINCESS.”
This shows a really dainty httle
Watch, popularly known as Ihe
Princess.” Although we sell mjnj
of these every year, we seldom
have a complaint reach us, and th
should he a good guarantee that it
is a reliable article, Made in 18ct.
Gold Engraved and Plain Cas ® s ;
The movement is Keyless and
properly jewelled. Hunting Oases,
■ £5/10/*', Open Face, £4/10/-
, sold in perfect confidence, and on a week’s trial;
TEBMS ° F the action. Postage paid on ai, Mai, Orders.
will be
“THE BUSHMANS LEVER.”
This is a Watch we can recommend for
country wear. We are sure it will (rive you
every satisfaction. It is a hej less 2*on-
Magnetic Lever, Jewelled Movement, with
dust- and damp-proof Oxydised Steel
Oases. £1 >B.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1613.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 1911.
Price 6d.
TWO CAPTAINS AND ONE SHIP.
ONE CAPTAIN (one minute): “Port your helium.”
THE OTHER CAPTAIN {the next minute): “Hard a=starboard.”
THE HELMSMAN: “Look here, between you we’ll be on a rock in a minute. And, as I’ll sink if this ship sinks, one of you will
have to get off this bridge quick and lively.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK. \
telephones : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct, to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you even,/ week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bullktin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, ana
Neiv Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at A/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tun Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London. W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., 1 aucouver, 8.C.,
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
US. A. —lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago hewspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6fin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded, on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 1911.
THE APPEAL TO THE PEOPLE.
The losing battle of State Frights is being fought
all over again in the matter of the referendum
which is to be taken next April. And, as usual,
the State Frights party doesn’t fight fairly ; also
its methods are those of no ordinary kind of ass.
Lts appeal is based on the declaration that the
States are liable to be robbed of certain powers by
the transfer of these powers to the Common-
wealth ; but as the people are the States, and the
people are also the Commonwealth, and the only
folk whom the people can rob are themselves, and
the only folk by whom they can be robbed are
themselves, and they will stand all the loss
and will also get all the profit, the posi-
tion of State Friglitism is less clear than
it might be. The community already pos-
sesses the powers about which all the trouble
has arisen. It will possess them if it transfers
them from the States to the Commonwealth,
and it will still possess them if it doesn’t transfer
them from the States to the Commonwealth. If
it transfers them to the Commonwealth, and then
changes its mind and hands them back to the
States, it will keep on possessing them. Ihere-
fore the community requires none of the com-
miseration which the State Frights party pro-
fesses to bestow upon it. It isn t a mad dog that
requires to tie itself to itself (there is nothing else
it could tie itself to) to prevent it biting itself
(there is no one else who could bite it), and thus
living itself the hydrophobia that it has got
already (if it hasn’t got it already then it can t get
it) The appeal of State Fnghtism to the people
not to trust themselves, to beware q Uieir own
possible treachery, and to avoid the pit which they
have allegedly digged fortheir own feet, seems un-
real somehow ; for it is hard to realise a person at
the bottom of the pit digging, and the same person
at the top falling in, and both of him being
killed, one of him by falling on himself and the
other by being fallen on by himself. The whole
matter requires calmer consideration than tiie
State Scare crowd is inclined to give it.
* * * *
It has been already remarked that the people
hold the power, whether they transfer the control
of industrial legislation and other matters to the
Commonwealth, or whether they don t. lhat
statement doesn’t look true, but in a protracted
kind of sense it is. Year after year the
people find their efforts at reform de-
feated by atrociously bigoted and unpatriotic
Houses of Landlords like those of Victoria and
Tasmania, and these Houses, being elected by
property-owners and limited to property-owners,
can’t be removed by any ordinary means. Still,
they might be shifted out of the way by revolution
and by the old Parisian plan of street-hanging,
though the leader of the successful revolution is
few and far between. Or they might be driven
to surrender their right of veto if the Lower
Houses were prepared to stop supplies, and sus-
pend the railway services, the police, the courts or
justice, and all the rest of the machinery of civili-
sation till the dreadful Upper Chambers climbed
down ; though Lower Houses and Ministers who
will do that sort of thing are very hard to find,
and it is very hard to organise the people to
look for them; and it would require a
few hundred thousand, or, perhaps, a million
pounds to establish a new set of daily papeis to
help along the campaign. The members and the
Ministers and the money and the papers and the
organisation doubtless could, be fouud, for almost
anything can be found if the right people look tor
it long enough ; still it must be admitted that it
would be exceedingly difficult work. But even
when State industrial legislation of a sort can be
secured there is immense difficulty, with six
different authorities on the job, to obtain that
degree of uniformity which is required if all the
workers and employers are to have a fairly equal
chance. And six different State laws with regard
to monopolies, corporations, etc., often result in
the uprising somewhere or other °^. a st £ t .
outlaw State like Guernsey in the United King-
dom, or New Jersey in the U.S., where almost
any iniquity can find legal refuge. Still, the
people can enforce uniformity despite all this
divided State control, if they want it badly
enough, for the people can do almost anything ;
but it must necessarily be a long job, and most of
the people will be buried first.
* * * *
To boil down the case into the smallest possible
compass, all the uniform and coherent industrial
legislation and all the legislation re commerce and
monopolies and corporations which Australia re-
quires can be got from the State Parliaments as
well as from the Commonwealth. The work can JJ e
done by six conflicting, nagging, irreconcilable
authorities just as it can by one authority. Also,
an equally good Panama Canal can be dug with
the old pick and shovel and the old system of
removing the debris in a bag carried on a mule as
by the most up-to-date methods and machinery.
The only drawback is that it takes about 1000
years more time and 25 times as many men and 50
times as much money. So it is proposed to ask
the people if, should they feel inclined at any
time to do certain work, they will have the up-to-
date machinery or the picfc and shovel and the mule.
To make dead sure that the cause of the pick and
shovel and the mule has no injustice done to
it, the dice are loaded in its favor to the extent
that it will require two majorities to overset it—a
majority vote in four States and an aggregate
majority vote for the whole Commonwealth. Yet,
even with this advantage in their favor, the sup-
porters of the old order profess that it will be an
outrage if their ancient way of doing things is
called in question at all. They say (1) that none
save fools will vote for transferring the proposed
powers to the Commonwealth ; and (2) that such
a vast majority of the Australian people are
fools -that, even with all the advantages in
favor of the State Frights party, its cause
is in serious danger. They also profess to
believe (3) that the Australian intelligence is
degenerating rapidly. Therefore, they constantly
quote the allegedly wise generation of a dozen
years ago which drafted the Constitution, and
didn’t “contemplate” the proposed changes, and
they urge the alleged dolts of to-day not to trust
their own limited intelligence, but to be guided
by the alleged stupendous wisdom of their prede-
cessors.
* * * *
There are many things in which the Australian
nation requires uniformity, and even in the days
when the State Legislatures were much better
than they are now—in the days before the best
men left them for Federal politics—it could
get uniformity in nothing. There were diverse
civil and criminal codes, industrial legis-
lation, land defence, sea defence, postal
and telegraph and telephone rates, postage
stamps, bank notes, railway rates, railway gauges,
tariffs and everything else. There were politicians
who didn’t speak because they came from different
sides of a border line, and there were railways
that didn’t connect for the same reason. All these
things could be righted in time without Federal
interference; but it seemed, judging by the old
State rate of progress, to require so very much
t j me _oO,OOO years perhaps. The reason why the
Federal power is going to be gradually extended
to cover every matter on which uniform legislation
is desirable is this blighting incapacity of State
politicians. If they had ever shown themselves
capable of working harmoniously on One matter
of importance, they might have a shadow of
a case, but they never did. Even this country’s
little bit of sea defence had to be imported de-
fence and managed from outside, because nothing
could be managed inside; and the drafting of a
Federal constitution was only made possible
when the people took it out of the hands of the
six clamorous State Frights and put it into those
of a single convention. State Frights, in fact,
has no case apart from its astounding impudence.
It knows that every matter which is transferred
from State to Federal control will diminish its
importance, and it is so convinced of the vast im-
portance of its importance that it considers this
sufficient reason for suspending the progress of
Australia.
* * * *
Despite State Frightism it is fairly safe to
prophesy that the Federal proposals will be
accepted at the referendum of next April. And
it is fairly safe to prophesy that after that the
process of Federal expansion will go on till the
Commonwealth takes over everything, and sub-
divides Australia at its pleasure on more sensible
principles, and endows each of the new States
with such a local constitution as it sees fit and
with such powers (held at the Commonwealth’s
pleasure) as it thinks best. Then, as there will
be no further debate as to the right of the Aus-
tralian Parliament to do things, there will be no
more appeals to the High Court to define
its rights, and that body will be re-
lieved of a very unsatisfactory job. Aus-
tralia, under the new conditions, will be a
much more genuine Federation than it is now, for
the people will rule in reality without five judicial
wigs to split hairs as to how much of their own
business thev can do in this capacity, and how much
in that; and they will be no longer haunted by a
terrace of property-elected Upper Houses whose
motto it is to do nothing to-day that can be post
poned till the century after next. These fatuous
bodies are probably sufficient m themselves to make
a big affirmative majority certain at next Apn s
referendum. They will probably, m another year
or two, make the success of the Unification and
Reconstruction movement certain. Their shame-
less arrogance, their boundless ignorance, their
bigotry, Toryism and lack of patriotism have
made them the most hated institutions
in Australia. The country would give almost
anything to be rid of them, and it is gradu-
ally learning that by a vote of the Australian
Parliament and a referendum they can be got rid
of—can be sacked from their respective job as
off-handedly as if they were so many messenger
boys. The State Frights party is not only use-
less : it goes out of its way in the person of various
of its Legislative Councils, to be needlessly offen-
sive. Patiently digging its grave with its own
jawbone, it does everything it can to make the
policy of what it calls “Federal encroachment
an assured success, and it hasn t sense enough to
do the only thing that might partially stay the
tide of “Encroachment” —stop using its jaw-
bone. __
TRADE WOULD BE DIVERTED.
The Public Works Committee yesterday considered the
proposed line of railway from Finley to Tocumwal.
Departmental evidence was averse to the line, on the
ground that trade would be diverted to Victoria.—
Sydney daily paper.
Among the many curious and costly devices for
the dragging of trade by the hair of its head to
some State capital to which Providence never
intended it to go, one of the most remarkable is
the Narrandera-Finley (N.S.W.) railway. This
line ends 11J miles from the Victorian border, and
for many years the gap has been carefully pre-
served lest, in the eloquent language of the
above paragraph, “trade should be diverted
to Victoria.” The railway bridge across the
Murray has been built, the Victorian trains
run across it, the Victorian Government, by
a special arrangement, has built a station
at Tocumwal on the N.S.W. side, and there the
matter ended. The N.S.W. rulers thought
better of it, and carefully preserved the gap of 11£
miles lest trade should go to Hell—or to Mel-
bourne, which, in their eyes, is the same place.
Even if the line were built, the insane break of
gauge would greatly interfere with trade, but lest
the break of gauge should not interfere suffici-
ently the line isn’t built. It is about the most
remarkable case of its kind in Australia. Finley,
where the N.S.W. rails end, is 454 miles from
Sydney and 168 miles from Melbourne. There-
fore the N.S.W. population thereabouts has to
pay for 286 miles of useless and superfluous haul-
age on almost everything it buys and sells. When
it sends a certain quantity of wheat to Sydney for-
ex port and takes out the value in the form of a
piano, as is occasionally done in good times, it
has to pay for 572 miles of needless haulage on the
double transaction. New South Wales has always
been especially strong on this kind of business.
It believed in Freetrade (of a kind) with Eng-
land, but it hated the idea of Freetrade with
Victoria. And though it strongly denounced
Protection by tariff it was a whale for Prohibition
by cutting off communication altogether.
* * * *
This dog-in-the-manager policy hasn’t paid the
district which had to do all this amazing and need-
less carriage in order to send its goods to Sydney,
nor has it paid Sydney, nor has it paid N.S.W.
The Narrandera-Finley extension (101 miles)
cost £522,892, so it was a very cheap line over
very easy country. Yet it has never paid ; in
fact, the accumulated loss now amounts to more
than the whole railway is worth—perhaps twice
as much as it is worth. The adjacent Narrandera-
Hay line (107 miles), which cost £645,319, is an
almost exactly similar case of needless haulage to
Sydney and refusal of communication with the
nearer port of Melbourne ; and it has also lost far
more than the whole railway is worth. Sydney,
which stands for nearly two-fifths of the popu-
lation of the State and probably for more than
two-fifths of its wealth, has had to pay a very
large share of this loss. In return, it has got
the filessed trade, but it isn’t worth having. Fin-
ley is the end of a 101-mile section—the place
where freight is supposed to be gathered from all
the country round. And Finley despatched in
1910, 42 bales of wool, 28,418 bags of wheat, 3
cows and some sundries. That sort of business
doesn’t yield much more than enough commission
to pay a clerk’s wages. The country served by
this line is a rich one ; but the population is miser-
ably thin, because the artificially-created distance
from a market makes it a place where it hardly
pays to be alive—except possibly as a gamble.
The thinness of the population is a loss not only
to the district itself, but to N.S.W. and to all Aus-
tralia. It means fewer taxpayers, fewer defenders,
fewer customers for the public services, and fewer
producers. * * *
If the 11J miles required to complete the con-
nection with Melbourne were filled in (and
especially if a uniform railway gauge were intro-
duced) it is practically certain that the Narran-
dera-Finley line would yield a great profit instead
of a great loss. There is abundance of room for a
large and remunerative trade southward from
Narrandera, Berrigan, Finley, etc., to Melbourne,
tor-th'e distance that way isn’t prohibitive, while
there isn’t room for a remunerative trade from
Finley, Berrigan, etc., northward to Sydney,
because the distance is just plain ruinous.
That is to say, if the gap of miles were filled
in Sydney would almost certainly be drawing a
dividend from its far-out Riverina line, instead
of paying out thousands of pounds annually to
make up the loss, and getting about 3d. back in
trade” for every shilling it pays out. As an
evidence, there is no gap on the Sydney-
Albury railway to prevent trade being diverted to
Melbourne, and every Section of that line yields a
profit to N.S.W., and, incidentally, to Sydney.
In that way, it presents a notable contrast to
many railways which were shoved out for absurdly
long and costly distances in order to haul trade to
Sydney when its natural destination was some
other N.S.W. port or—in one or two cases—a
port in some other State, There were 33
non-paying lines in N.S.W. during the
prosperous year 1910, and the total loss on them
was £324,312, of which the capital’s share must
have been something very considerable. Quite a
number of these are lines of the sort that are
built, regardless of distance, to drag everything
to Sydney, to the loss of the place things are
dragged from, and often to the loss of the place
they are dragged to, and always to the deteriora-
tion, through superfluous mileage, of the things
dragged. It is the policy, over again, by which
the”dunderheaded Spaniards lost their South
American heritage something like 100 years ago.
Argentina had just the same grievance as Western
Riverina. A fool Government insisted that it
should send its exports round by Panama, and
needless haulage lost Spain an empire.
* * * *
It is noteworthy that the Labor Government is
the first that has attempted, even in a small way,
the sane idea of letting trade take the short
road instead of the long one. By way of a tre-
mulous preliminary experiment it has threatened
to fill in the 11^-mile gap between Finley and
Tocumwal. And the Old Brigade, which has
learned no wisdom from the fact that it has been
losing immense sums on this foolish line for 26
years, objects as per usual.
THE CORONATION PICNIC.
John Drayman makes a few remarks :
The other day the cables hinted that a domestic event
in the royal household might prevent the holding of the
Coronation festivities this year. Without wishing King
George any loss of sleep, I hope there is truth in the
rumor. Anything calculated to postpone the projected
visit to England of 18 or 20 Federal Parliamentarians, and
the consequent suspension of all Commonwealth legisla-
tion until next September, ought to be enthusiastically
welcomed by all patriotic folk. There is too much
important work to be done before Australia can afford to
give its National legislators a nine months* holiday on
full pay, plus expenses of travelling to and from Britain.
The fact that the present Government has done well for
one session does not justify that much loafing. The
Land Tax is good; InvUlid Pensions, the Destroyers,
Northern Territory, Compulsory Training Initiation —all
these and a fine administrative record make up a total of
usefulness for which we give thanks to the first Labor-
majority Parliament. Even the Commonwealth Notes
Act, though a somewhat poor affair considered from a
national standpoint, may be allowed to pass to the credit
of the party on thin-end-of-the-wedge grounds. But
surely all this useful legislation and administration does
not constitute a colorable excuse for the present attack
of “ cold feet,” which seems to afflict legislators. Is
the establishment of a Commonwealth Bank of less
importance to Australia, the land of undeveloped
resources, than the attendance of a job lot of (Federal
legislators at the formal crowning of an English king?
Are not the votes of such legislators on the Navigation
Bill, and the numerous Bills sure to arise out of the
result of the April referenda, of more value to Australia
than their genuflexions at Westminster? And what of
the two transcontinental railways; the housing of the
national records and other valuables in a federal capital
beyond the range of sea-borne guns ; the erection of the
Territory into a new State, and the planting therein of
land-grant military colonies to protect our Northern
gate? Can these things afford to wait the return of our
gadding politicians? Is the control of the Paciflc(the Anglo-
Jap treaty expires in 1915, and the steam excavators of
Panama may tear it into tatters long before that date) a
less important matter than the placing of an uncomfort-
able headgear on the hairy end of George Rex? The
Commonwealth Parliament will have to find the money
to build an aerial or a submarine fleet, or both. It must
hustle petty States-Mite interests out of the way, and
secure control of the best iron ore and the most efficient
iron-foundry in this hemisphere. These things cannot be
done without a good deal of legislative wrangling, so the
sooner the wrangle is commenced the better. Prime
Minister Fisher may be trusted to represent Australia
at the coronation well enough to satisfy the most exact-
ing British loyalist. In fact, no Imperial Briton, who
knows anything of the circumstances of the Australian
portion of the Empire, could fail to appreciate the
absence of Andrew’s mates from the ceremony.
* * * *
Some of the Labor member’s have put forth as a reason,
or at least an excuse, for the jaunt, the fact that they
will be enabled to rub shoulders with British Laborites, to
the mutual advantage of the Bull and the Australian
Labor parties. To this it is only necessary to reply that
Australians are not likely to learn much from British
Laborites, who have not yet attained to the position of
even a Third party in their own Parliament, while the
Australians have captured both Houses of the National
Parliament and some of the State Assemblies. And if it is
opined that the visitors will be able to teach Bullabor a
thing or two, well, surely that is a vain hope, for the self-
sufficiency of Bullabor, as evidenced to Australia by the
schoolmarm attitude assumed towards us by Mann, Tillet,
MacDonald, Hardie, Crooks, Hodge and co. will always
remain an insuperable bar to his absorption of useful know-
ledge by personal contact with visiting Australaborites,
especially as the latter, being politicians, and not pro-
tagonists, are the least capable of teachers. History
supports the view that the only way in which a child or
a colony can teach its parent is by doing things, not by
theorising about them ; and even then the most vivid
obiect-lesson is accepied with such heart-breaking taidi-
ness by the old ’uu that it matters little whether he
accepts it or not. In this connexion, also, it should be
remembered that the proposed Australian delegation is
distinctly non-party, and it is accepted all over the world
that the members of such official bodies, be they a
monarch’s ambassadors or Parliamentary commissioners,
should refrain from talking party politics during then-
visit. Etiquette very wisely decrees that it is dash-bad
form for visitors to turn their host’s back yard into a bear
garden ; and that is what England would be if either Little
Billy or Big John started to educate the British public
from opposite street corners, while Bill Lyne was getting
himself run in for creating a riot in Trafalgar Square .
* * * *
“ Look at the education it will be for us, a visit to
the Old Country ! ” Thus exclaim some of our Parlia-
mentarians who hope to be selected for toe trip, true
enough ; but surely this is a personal luxuiy, lor which
the country should not be called upon to pay. Australia
elected these men to Parliament because Australia be-
lieved they already knew enough to look after Australia s
interests, not because they required free education in the
ancient ways of J. Bull. Those ways are not of much
practical use to us as a nation ; we are confronted with
problems of which Britain knows not the solution, and
have to deal vvith conditions to which she is a stranger.
Also we are working towards ideals that Britain cannot
sympathise with, for she understands them not. The
average Briton in the land of fogs, secure from Asian in-
vasion, regards our White Australia notion as a mete fad,
and our talk of the possibilities of war with an Asiatic
power as a bogey on which he may good-humoredly
banter us to Ids heart’s content. Are W. G. Higgs and
Charlie Frazer likely to convince Bull that we are in
deadly earnest in regard to this "fad, while Bruce
Smith and Jok Cook are droning 1 to Mrs. B. and all the
little B.’s that “ we are utterly unable to develop our
magnificent Northern resources without colored labor .
Of the usual effect of coronation and similar British show
functions on visiting Australians I say nothing : that is
the visitors’ own funeral.
* * * *
When the project was first mooted it was not antici-
pated that the trip would cut more than a (sixth of the
legislative year to waste. But when it is diijovered that
it'praetically means that 1911 shall be a legislative blank,
as far as the National Parliament is concerned, it is
about time somebody offered a gentle protest against the
unconscionable waste of time. We cannot afford it; we
must first set our own house in order. If the proposal
had been to spend the £5OOO on sending a delegation to
the United States to talk over the control of the Pacific
and cognate subjects with Uncle Sam, there might have
been some sense in it, considering the nature of oui
pressing problems; but the present scheme looks like
sheer uselessness—or worse. So, perhaps, it will be a
good thing for this continent if the foreshadowed
domestic event clothes the royal household in double-
soled felt slippers and a mantle of subdued whispers in-
si ead of in the gorgeous robes and loud ' J
coronation-time. The official ceremony can wait, Aus-
tralia is pushed for time.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Next War.
A conviction is abroad in Europe that the next
great Asiatic war is already in sight. When that
magnificent liar, our friend the Monkey, went
into the last war he did the deed to save Korea
from foreign interference. He was pledged in
solemn alliance to guard the independence of
that State, and he and his friend walked together
in amity, holding each other’s tails and arranging
terms of eternal friendship. And Korea has been
annexed. Its King has been deposed, its Queen was
murdered by the agents of the Japanese ambas-
sador, and its lands have been confiscated whole-
sale. Instead of the loose casual suzerainty
which Russia exercised over a section of the coun-
try, there is wholesale and retail spoliation. Now
the trouble concerns Manchuria. Manchuria is
Chinese territory ; but ever since the Bear fled
northward on his four disorganised feet, Japan
has occupied it. China has made anxious in-
quiries at the door as to the proposed length of
the occupation, and has got no satisfaction what-
soever. Now it learns as clearly as possible that
the occupation is to be for ever. Japan owns the
existing Manchurian railways. It is borrowing a
very large amount to build more railways. And
when China, also proposed to build a line
in Manchuria —its own territory—it received
flat intimation from the Intruder
that nothing of the sort would be allowed.
So China has two alternatives ; it can fight and
then probably cave in, or it can cave in without
fighting. Russia is not likely to interfere ; it has
had about enough of interference for the present,
and British support makes the Japanese position
far too strong. And Japan is evidently bent on
being a vast world-Power. It has a lack *of
scruple that is magnificent, and an ambition that
is colossal. If the anticipated struggle with China
comes off, Japan, like Germany, will have built its
sudden empire on three wars, the difference
being that Germany rose in seven amaz-
mg years, while Japan’s upheaval, meteoric
as it is, has already spread over 17. The
definite annexation of Manchuria will almost
certainly be done in some way before 1915, when
the Anglo-Jap alliance expires. It will be Bull’s
last service to his friend—to guard him from out-
side interference while he fixes this little matter
up. Then the alliance will expire, for the fact
that it won’t be renewed,is an open secret. Japan,
it is freely alleged, will join the Triple League,
and after that things will probably commence to
hum. Even if France and Russia'feel inclined to
stand by Britain, Russia has no fleet since
Britain’s Monkey friend destroyed it, and the
I reach navy is notoriously rotten and incompetent,
oo the odds will probably be against Bull both by
land and sea. That Anglo-Jap alliance, which
helped so much to the downfall of Russia and the
rise of Japan, has been for Australia unmitigated
misfortune. This country has exchanged a very
distant possible enemy, who never went in for sea-
enterprise of martial kind except when actually
driven to it, for a very close-at-hand one to whom
the sea is almost second nature. Where there
used to be a loose and doubtful hegemony of the
Pacific in the hands of a State which had
no possible grievance against us, there is
how the very definite hegemony of a State
which regards our White Australia policy as
a glaring wrong. Russia, an elderly sort of
empire with abundance of territory already
and some doubts about the advisability of further
expansion, has passed from our horizon to make
way for anew and furious Power with all its
ambitions in front of it—like Macedon under
Alexander, or Persia under Cyrus. In place of
a possible foe whose faith was none too good we
have got one who, as shown by his course of action
in Korea and Manchuria, has made faithlessness
a fine art, lying an exact science, and treachery a
thing with frills on it. It isn’t a pleasant outlook,
and the pity is that Australia is making so little
haste to realise it. This country’s army of in-
fants, its very slow-growing navy, its unbuilt
transcontinental lines, its varied railway gauges,
its uncertain finance, and its long Parliamentary
holidays during which everything is hung up—
none of these suggest that red haste which some-
times is half-sister to delay and much more often
isn’t.
The Fair-Rent Courts That the Landlords
Are Inviting.
The brazen fashion in which the landlords of
Melbourne and Sydney have used the Graduated
Laud Tax as a pretext for extorting higher rents
from their tenants, recalls the fact that Glad-
stone found a very similar gang in Ireland. No
matter what was' done for the benefit of
the tenants, the landlords found means
of extorting the advantage from them in the
shape of higher rents. No matter how he aimed
to hit the landlord, the landlord pushed the
tenant in front and made him suffer the damage.
Gladstone stood it for a good while, but countered
at last by establishing Fair Rent Courts, into
which the humblest of tenants could take his
haughty landlord and have his rent fixed by judicial
authority. In view of the atrocious swindle that is
being worked in Melbourne and Sydney, where
thousands of people have had their rent raised on
the pretext of a tax which the landlords will not ■
have to pay, the establishment of similar courts
in Australia is pushed into the forefront of prac-
tical politics. The remedy is all the more prac-
ticable because, while it must appeal at once to
the Labor party, the great “Liberal ” partv can
hardly object to the adoption of an Act passed in
England by the great Liberal party there—the
great Liberal party of which the local Liberals
profess proudly to be part and parcel. Exactly
how charming ail institution this Fair Rent Court
would prove may be slightly indicated by the fol-
lowing extract from Nelson’s Encyclopaedia on
Gladstone’s Land Act of 1881 :
It established courts for the “fixing of fair rents”
annulling contract within this important province; St
provided that rent should not be charged on improve-
ments made by tenants, thus opening a door to litigation
of the most harassing kind. Parliament passed the Act.
Through this legislation, the concurrent rights of the
Irish peasant in his farm, and his partial joint ownership
have not only been vindicated in the most ample measure
—he has acquired new proprietary rights in the land, to
which it is difficult to see how he could have a claim.
His superior, on the other hand, the Irish landlord has
been expropriated to a considerable extent. He has been
changed from an owner in the real sense to little more
than the possessor of a State settled rent; and the rental
of Ireland, THROUGH THE ACTION OE THE LATELY-
ESTABLISHED COURTS, HAS PROBABLY BEEN
REDUCED NEARLY FORTY PER CENT.
That is what the property-owning classes of Aus-
tralia are inviting. If there is much more of this so-
called passing-on, the Fair Rent Court will arrive
as sure as to-morrow’s sun ; and when the land-
lord is “changed from an owner in the real sense
to little more than the possessor of a State-settled
rent,” he will be able to sit down and thank his
own sneak-thief propensities for the change.
A Hot Inland Waste.
Sydney Telegraph did a fresh burst of rage last
Friday re the proposed straight line of railway
from Port Darwin to the south. Said the rag in
its feeble anger :
Nor will the selfishly foolish railway covenant attached
to the transfer do much to improve matters. It will be
j ears before the desert line can be completed, and since
ev en then, to flatter the provincialism of South Aus-
will llave fco P ass through a thousand miles of
HOT INLAND WASTE do reach the Territory, its effect
in reducing the evils of isolation will be minimised.
Unit is dreadfully unconvincing, especially the
complaint that the straight, line from Port
Augusta will cross 1000 miles of “ hot inland
waste before it reaches the Territory. In
the first place, the alleged 1000 miles is bosh;
according to the deviation party’s own map
the distance from deep water at Port
Augusta to Oodnadatta is 479 miles, and the
whole distance from Port Augusta to the Terri-
tory border about 600. And 600 isn’t 1000 by a
long way. Incidentally, the same map shows that
the deviation party proposes a line which, starting
from deep water at Melbourne, will amble and
back and fill and perambulate over a distance of
1576 miles before it reaches the border of the
lerntory and begins to open up Australia’s new
possession. The difference between 600 miles and
1576 miles is visible to the naked eye. As to the
foolish complaint that the straight line is “in-
land,” the proposed deviation is inland also; and
it is difficult to see how a transcontinental railway
can be otherwise. The paper also complains
that the proposed direct route is “hot.” Yet
that direct route climbs over the breezy up-
lands of Central Australia, where there is a large
area over 2000 ft. high (Alice Springs, the town-
ship in the very centre of the continent, is 1926 ft.
high ; and at Daly Waters, nearly 700 miles fur-
ther north on the direct route, the height is still
700 ft.). On the other hand, the line which the
deviation party recommends goes by Wentworth,
where a summer temperature of 119 degrees isn’t
uncommon, by Broken Hill (115 degrees), and
then proceeds on northerly into a great region
which the Federal Statistician’s map marks
as being practically on sea level, and
presumably warm to correspond. And in
their anxiety to avoid going through what
they call a “ waste,” the Telegraph and the other
deviation advocates propose to take the transcon-
tinental railway, at great extra .mileage, not only
through the hottest and driest part of N.S.W.,
but through a region where, in 62,630 square miles)
there are only about 3100 acres suspected of being
under cultivation, and where, in 1908, out of 25
counties there were five that didn’t possess a
cow among them and three that didn’t own a goat,
while it took eight of them to show nine hogs.
I he party which wants to rush the transcontinental
railway into that country for fear South Australia
may be “a hot inland waste” seems to have
leaped from the frying-pan into the conflagration.
It is all so very unconvincing that it would almost
be better if the old paper dropped the sham and
hollow mockery of a desire to serve the best inte-
rests of Australia and told what seems to be the
plain truth—-that it advocates the transcontinental
railway deviation because it believes in dragging
everything into N.S.W. and that it doesn’t care a
hang for Australia.
♦
“No,” and the Whole, Complete,
Logical Hog.
The Customs Department lately issued in Mel-
bourne a return listing the imports for the first
10 months of last year; and that return enabled
this comparison to be made with regard to boots
and shoes:—
1905 .. .. £113,755
1906 118,955
1907 123,078
1908 191,305
1909 (10 months) .. 222,310
1910 (10 months) .. 304,818
The 30, per cent, duty grudgingly accorded by
Parliament was barely sufficient to enable Aus-
tralian manufacturers to hold their own ; it
needed but a straw to turn the scale in favor of the
foreign manufacturer, and that straw came in the
shapeof a recent increase in boot operatives’ wages.
This shows the intimate relation between wages
and the tariff. The two things are not two sub-
jects, but two branches of one subject; and to
put the two under different authorities is about
as senseless as it would be to have two captains on
one ship, one responsible for dodging rocks and
the other only concerned with avoiding sand-
banks. In this boots case the captain with the job
of dodging rocks ran the vessel on to the sand; but
that was no business of his—as long as he didn’t hit
a rock his ticket wouldn’t be called for. The State,
through the Arbitration Court or Wages Board
can fix the wages, as it did in the boot business ;
but, in avoiding the shoal of low wages, it clearly
rail into the rock of foreign imports. It may have
known perfectly well that when it altered the
course to avoid the sandbank the ship
would strike the rock unless the course was
altered again; but it had no power to alter
the course again ; the job of avoiding the rock of
foreign imports belongs exclusively to the
Commonwealth. It is patently absurd to have
two captains running the ship in this fashion. If
Australia is not prepared to say “Yes” at the
coming referendum, and hand the control of indus-
trial affairs over to the Commonwealth, then it
had better go the whole, complete, logical hog, and
hand back the control of the Customs to the
States, and let the old lunacy of inter-State duties
resume business at the old address.
Our Lost Shipbuilding Industry.
There is a heap of sense about our brown acquaint-
ance, the Jap. For instance, next July a heavy
duty on imported ships comes into force—so
heavy a duty that the importation of ships will
cease, and Nippon will in future do its own ship-
building. What an industry Australia might
have had if it had struck that same idea some 40
years ago, and what an industry it could have 10
years hence if it seized the idea with both hands
now ! This country once had great prospects in
the way of marine architecture. The Hobart
Mercury, mourning recently over the decadence
of the great port which washes its office door, re-
minded people that there was a time when
Hobart ran neck and neck with Clasgow as
a shipbuilding centre. Legend has it that
there was also a time when wooden ships
built on the Northern Rivers of N.S.W.
brought our tea supplies from China and carried
mails over the wide Pacific. There are still some
fading remnants of the industry. In 1902 there
were built in the Commonwealth 79 small
vessels averaging a miserable 35 tons each ;
while by 1908 the record had sunk to
40 vessels averaging 36 tons each. In other
words, the tonnage dropped from 2769 to
1438. The downfall began with the coming of
iron ships. Australia had no iron industry, and
it hadn’t the sense to create one by duties and
bonuses. So, though the shipping on the Aus-
tralian register amounted in 1908 to 384,641 tqns,
and is fast increasing, a great industry has practi-
cally pegged out. The only visible way to revive
it is the way which Japan lias adopted.
« .
Vested v. National Interests.
The conspiracy in connection with the Common-
wealth capital is one of a series ; and as the others
are older, the bad results can already be reckoned
u p. Port Stephens (N.S. W.) is the victim of one
or them. It has great natural facilities for a
port, just as the Monaro has great natural
tacilitms for a capital; but Vested Interests
stinea Port Stephens and kept it stifled.
At its front door it has a well-sheltered harbor and
deep water. Around.its foreshores there in a pic-
turesque and fertile tract of country, while at its
back door lie untouched deposits of iron ore of
medium grade and vast stores of limestone, which
for quality are second to none in Australia.
Yet, although it has thus the makings of
a great commercial and manufacturing port,
its only industry at present is conducted
by an occasional sportsman with a gun,
and the solitary signs of manufacture are
the empty sardine tin and the dead marine of the
vague, infrequent tourist. Not long ago the
N.S.W. Public Works Committee had before it a
scheme for additional wharfage at Newcastle, and
E. M. de Burgh, Chief Engineer for Harbors and
Water Supply, showed the utter indifference to
this great, neglected inlet by short-sighted
authorities who had no hesitation in pouring hun-
dreds of thousands of hard cash into New-
castle harbor, with the most unsatisfactory
results. De Burgh stated he did not
know that the Department of Public Works
had ever gone into the matter of even making
Port Stephens a relief port for Newcastle. Before
he took over his present job not a survey had been
made. He found Port Stephens to possess a fine
entrance, with over 30ft. of moisture at low water,
as compared with 22ft. at Newcastle entrance.
I here were no difficulties of navigation even to a
big vessel, and a White Star liner could enter
loaded, although, with 30ft. of wateratthe entrance,
she would probably hold a little for the tide. But
that is without allowing for dredging. Bores were
recently put down 10ft. through the sand which
means that a depth of 40ft. (or 9ft. more than the
eastern channel in Port Jackson) could be ob-
tained. De Burgh’s investigations proved that
there is more water in Port Stephens carrying a
depth of 30ft. than there is in Sydney Harbor—
about one-third more. Admittedly, in a heavy
westerly blow the conditions in the bay would be
very coarse; yet the State’s own engineer declared
there would be no more danger to vessels lying
in the open than there is in Sydney. Hereabouts,
in the course of De Burgh’s evidence, an en-
lightened sawdust-head arose from his seat at the
committee table and “presumed that when the
time came and there was no room at Newcastle
for increased accommodation, Port Stephens
would be looked upon as the outlet for the trade
of theNorthand theNorth-West; andif thetradeof
Newcastle became too great. Port Stephens could be
used as an outlet for the surplus trade.” It
seemed a waste of intelligence to explain any-
thing further to such colossal ineptitude ; but De
Burgh was set on having his knowledge set on
record—even if it is of no interest to Australians,
the Japanese might be glad of it. He pointed
out that no matter what was done at Newcastle
the. existing port would always have its dangers,
difficulties and limitations, while the cost of
constructing an artificial harbor outside New-
castle would be far more costly than opening up
Port Stephens and making it suitable for traffic.
And, anyhow, the natural Port Stephens would be
infinitely superior in every respect to the expen-
sive artificial harbor, “Port Stephens,” said the
expert in conclusion, “is a great national asset, a
port that any country might be proud of.” But
like many another great national asset in Aus-
tralia, this one is the victim of Vested Interests,
skilled in political wire-pulling, coupled with a
lack of national horse-sense or even cow-sense.
And a worse feature still is that the sin which
was committed in regard to the northern port of
N. S. Wales is being repeated in regard to the
National capital, with the result that, afterspend-
mg unnecessary h undreds of thousands of pounds,
Australia will still have only a rabbit-bitten vil-
lage where it might easily have had a vigorous
city.
That great financial authority, Waddell, sees
evil andgloom ahead. He reckons that if the people
vote for the transfer of the control of industrial
legislation to the Commonwealth, N.S.W. may no
longer be able to borrow money for railroad-
building. Cohen, he professes to consider, may
refuse to lend for fear the Commonwealth should
put up the wages of railway men to such a
dazzling pinnacle that the railways won’t pay,
and then he won’t get his interest. Yet Cohen
lent money joyfully in the old days, when the
whole N.S.W. railway system was a stupendous
loss. He lends money cheerfully to-day for
new lines that don’t pay. He buys the
shares of the Melbourne Tramway Cos.,
though it is liable under its Act to have
its fares cut down by Parliament and at the same
time its employees’ wages raised by the industrial
courts. He has lent nearly £800,000,000 to British
railway companies, despite the fact that their
fares are liable to be interfered with and cut
down and mauled about by the Board of Trade or
the Railway and Canal Commissioners. When
Cohen takes these dazzling risks he isn’t likely to
worry even if the Federal authority is empowered
to raise wages on the N.S.W. State railways,
rni can always respond by raising rates.
I lie thing that is likely to make him totter men-
tally about his security is the fear lest we haven’t
raised sufficient of an army to protect the railways
in which his good red monish is invested.
-s-
When N.S.W. Treasurer McGowen made his
Budget speech a few weeks ago, and turned him-
self into a kind of Gatling gun to discharge large
quantities of figures that had previously been
poured into him, he announced that, in spite of
last years borrowings, the State’s net indebted-
ness had actually been reduced by over quarter of
a million. Now the “Statements to accompany
the Financial Speech ” have been issued from
the Government Printer, and the milk in the
cocoanut is explained. As might have been ex-
pected, the milk is sour. A note to one of the
tabies (No. 7) gives the alleged net shrinkage of
the debt clean away: “The balance of proceeds
of loan of £1,500,000 floated in London in
February, 1909, viz.. £93,020; also proceeds of
loan of £3.000,000 floated in London in May
1909, estimated at £2,850,000, could not be
brought into account until after the close of the
yea r 1908-9. Had these proceeds, viz.,
£2,943,020, been available on June 30, 1909,
the . . . net public indebtedness would have been
reduced to £86,902,205.” The net public indebt-
edness on June 30, 1910, w’as £89,562,612; so we
get this :
DiUo al SU/^n° /6/ ’ 09 £86,902,206
Actual net growth of debt for year .. £2,660,407
Which is a mighty different proposition from that
submitted by McGowen in his speech. Seeing
that the financial year ended before McGowen
arrived, the alleged reduction of debt amounted
to a halo for the Wade-Waddell Administration,
lew people will, therefore, be surprised to learn
that the halo is Brummagem.
Song of Raids and Rejoicings.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
But it is certain that in a time of good seasons, large
revenues and fine prospects, when Australia should be
able to pay for its works out of its own income, if it is
ever going to do so, the old disease has broken out again
in a virulent form. Even the few casual scruples which
had developed re the habit of charging wholly unproduc-
tive jobs and repairs to Cohen seem to have dropped out
of sight. The rush of the State authorities to borrow
£30,000,000 threatens to complicate matters.—The
Bulletin, Dec. 29, 1910.
Let us rejoice, camerados. It is the New Year !
Let us rejoice—inexpensively and with decorum —
in due accordance with the Police Pretences
Act;
That is to say, do not sneeze, osculate, ululate or
oscillate; or go to with any diablerie,
Avoid harmonic bibulation coram populo, thus
’scaping tribulation at the hands of our mag-
nificent Counts of the Stable !
Just rejoice—pantomimically rejoice, without
frill !
Shall we not rejoice, camerados ?
It is the glad New Year—and all is very well
with us !
So, at least, we are told by our daily Lucifera.
They have cast up the tale of our gains and losses,
and brought the year to strict aceompt;
And what a Year we have had, brethren !
Pain, revolution, exploration, centralisation, wow-
serism, wireless, collision, collusion, divorce,
Dreadnoughts, chicane, hen-conventions,
prize-fights, State Frights, junkets and phre-
netic borrowings—
All these—and many more—have been poured
forth upon us from the overflowing cornu-
copias of a too-liberal Fortune ;
We are a year fatter and further forward—like a
calf that, anon, will be Somebody’s frican-
deau!
But let us rejoice !
We will cry, “ Advance, Australia! Advance,
adipose Australia ! ”
Shall we not advance, camerados ?
But certainly we will advance—advance with
confidence and celerity, secure in our great
natural racehorses !
We will greet the Future with a beer and the
Unseen with a sneer, and with the unmiti-
gable symbol of a continental and circum-
ferential stability.
Our IO U, camerados !
Sapristi, yes!
Let us, therefore, rejoice—yet with discretion—
for wherein shall the New Year not'prove
equally fortunate with the Old Year ?
Peradventure, we may euchre Destiny !
At the least we can play a loan hand.
Let us play a loan hand, camerados !
Hence with hesitancy and the feeble formula of
obsolescent schools ! We will sequestrate our
heritage, triple-pledge Posterity, and realise
on our very problematical halidom !
(Buy our Halidom ! Who’ll buy our Halidom?)
Do we not owe more money per head than any
other people on earth ?
Himmel und Kiimmel, yes !
Do we not raise, and spend, more revenue per
head than any other national spendthrifts?
Vogue la galbre —yes !
The total debts of the Commonwealth and the six
States are—what are they, camerados ?
Some trifling millions—three hundred or so.
Ah, bah ! What we owe—it is a mere bagatelle
to what we hope to owe !
What are £300,000,000 among four millions of
people ?
It is nought, camerados !
Nought, nought , nought, nought, nought, nought,
nought, nought.
And we are the Dreadnought, camerados. We
are the one !
The one persistent, consistent, insistent, undis-
mayed and unparalleled, Seven House-power
Borrower !
Should we not, therefore, rejoice?
Are we enfeebled ? decadent? neglectful of oppor-
tunities ?
Have we not had six consecutive good seasons ?
Is not the Land Boom with us ?
Have we not a complaisant Treasurer in seven
places, with seventy patriotic papers and
seven hundred incorruptible parliamentarians
urging him—all seven of him—on?
I say we are neglectful of our most glorious and
squanderous opportunities, camerados !
We must awake!
We must arise !!
We must Borrow ! ! !
Come ! Let us be worthy of our great reputation !
Let us make a Raid in Judah !
Let us invade the tents and the per cents, of •
Israel !
I invite you toward the hoard of Benjamin and
the shekels of Manasseh !
Do not vacillate ; do not refrain ; do not repine,
or suffer discouragement;
Let us excel ourselves !
Shall vve not excel ourselves, camerados ?
Let us borrow thirty millions !
Let us forget the day of petty loans and adequately
raid the stronghold of the City of Israel!
I charge you ignore those mean Three Hundred
Millions !
I urge you to the House of Cohen, and to the
Gates of Jewry !
Come! Raid and rejoice in this bright New
Year;
Let us see how much we can get them to advance
Australia ! . . .
Ah, the glad, unbounded, borrowsome New Year !
It is here, camerados, it is here !
We shall get £30,000,000 this blythe 1911,
camerados !
Next year vve may do even better !
In 1912 why not borrow £40,000,000 ?
Rejoice ! Rejoice ! Have we not cause to rejoice?
On, then, camerados, to the goal of £400,000,000 !
Vorivarls! Kn avant! BOG IN!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
Brought to Bay
Are those enemies of civilisation, indigestion and
dyspepsia when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed ; 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing,
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
The N.S.W. Public Works Committee is con-
sidering the extension of the Sydney-Kiama-
Nowra railway to Jervis Bay. This line runs along
a narrow strip of coast, and in places it just hangs
on by its teeth between the mountains and the
sea. When it gets past the coal districts there is
very little for it to carry, for it has no connection
with the inland country ; it merely humps the bit
of produce grown on the narrow coastal strip, and
even for that the steamboats actively compete.
Consequently, the agricultural section of it
the 22 miles from Kiama to Nowra
is a horrible loss of nearly £14,000 a
year. It is now proposed to carry the line onwards
through another narrow strip (and a much more
barren strip) of agricultural country to Jervis
Bay. The result will be that Jervis Bay and Port
Jackson will be able to swap fish if they want to,
though if they really desire to swap fish they will
probably do it more cheaply by sea. The position
seems to be that the Federal Government pro-
poses to build a railway from somewhere about
Yass to Jervis Bay, and it is considered neces-
sary to build a line along the coast from
Jervis Bay to Sydney', in the hope that
it will snatch the trade which comes along from
Yass way, and carry it to Sydney, and thus pre-
vent Jervis Bay becoming areal port. That is to
say, N.S.W. will possibly spend a devil of a lot
of money, and then lose a devil of a lot of money
every year, in order to prevent a great N.S.W.
harbor coming to anything. A railway that is
hemmed in between the eternal hills and the
coast, which has no back country behind it because
the back country is served by a parallel line, and
which has to compete with cheap sea carriage
along its entire length for its occasional pig and
its precarious tub of butter, isn’t a wildly pro-
mising spec ; but there have been worse ones.
*
Thus that fearfully superior person, Gilbert
Parker, M.P., in the Nineteenth Century and
After :
Land Nationalisation, State tenancy, has to be tried by
facts, not theories. And, tried by facts, it will in good
time be condemned in Great Britain as it has lately been
condemned in Maoriland.
There certainly has been some sort of sporadic
movement in Maoriland in favor of the freehold ;
but there just as certainly hasn’t been any in
favor of the private landlord. Even the crowd
that has been clamoring in a small way for free-
hold puts things in this order : Every man his
own landlord, 1; State tenancy, 2; private land-
lordism, 37th or thereabouts. Parker suggests
that on the Maoriland experience, matters should
be left as they are in Great Britain ; and
that’s just the very last thing Maoriland
would do with them if it had the running
of them. Anyway, if Parker wants facts
and not theories about land nationalisation,
why not take a look at the Dutchmen’s Java—the
country where he couldn’t buy a farm if he carried
the Bank of England in his pocket; the country,
moreover, which has been doubling its population
every 30 years or so since the present system was
adopted !
C.O.D. principles begin to appeal to Argen-
tina—in some respects Australia’s greatest com-
petitor—and its Minister for Public Finance the
other day made these cheerful remarks to Con-
gress :
I intend to omit no effort in order to make the budget
a truth . . . the attempt is difficult, for the vicious prac-
tices encrusted in our administration cannot be sup-
pressed in a day ; it will be difficult, certainly, to enter
into a serious regime of finance in a country in which dis-
order has been the rule, in which enormous expenses have
been decreed without considering how the funds for
meeting them were to be obtained.
It is also necessary to restrain the impatience and
optimism which demand public works in all parts.
Numerous laws have been passed for public works and
other expenses for hundreds of millions of dollars. It is
necessary to postpone them.
The programme of public works is vast and grand.
Many are useful and necessary ; but we must proceed
with prudence and according to our means. This may
appear inconvenient in anew country where everything
is wanting, but we know by experience the frightful con-
sequences of immoderate expenses.
The debt is already too heavy, and its service requires
a fourth part of the revenue. A healthy example is
offered us by the United States, in the policy of making
use of prosperous times for the reduction of the public
debt.
During the last two Administrations the public debt
was increased by $145,000,000 ; and if all public works
sanctioned by law and which are pending were to be
executed, the public debt would perhaps be doubled.
When more than 40 per cent, of the revenue of a nation is
absorbed by its debt, it loses credit, and an alarming
situation is created.
So Argentina calls a halt in borrowing, and,
swinging round, resolves to follow “the healthy
example of the United States in making use of
prosperous times for the reduction of the public
debt.” Australia, on the other hand, instead of
repaying when it can, lays hold of the season
of prosperity and uses it as an excuse for bor-
rowing harder than ever. When times are bad it
borrows because it must; when times are good, it
borrows because it can. So, whether times are
good or bad, it dips itself deeper into pawn, while
its competitors, knowing that some day they may
simply have to borrow, nurse their credit. There
is no doubt as to which is the prudent crowd and
which the short-sighted, thriftless, improvident
one.
+
The S. M. Herald pleads that the Common-
wealth Constitution Act should be given “a fair
trial.” Well, a Government which the S. M.
Herald helped to create, and which it sup-
ported, said that an Excise Act was necessary. It
passed the measure —and then the High Court
said that the Constitution didn’t give it the
power to pass the Act which the Herald’s
Government said was necessary. Then the
Herald’s Government said another commercial
measure was necessary, and it passed that too;
and again the High Court said that the Constitu-
tion didn’t give the power to pass the law which
the Herald’s Government said was necessary.
Finally, the Herald’s Government passed the
Seamen’s Compensation Act; and the High Court
said that the Constitution didn’t give power to
pass that measure, though the Herald’s Govern-
ment said it was necessary. This Government,
which the Herald helped to create, and which it
supported with enthusiasm—was it an extra-sized
fool that didn’t know what was necessary, or was
the Constitution under which it worked defective?
And if it was the Government that was at fault
and not the Constitution, how does the Herald ex-
plain its strenuous efforts to return that Govern-
ment to power at the last general Commonwealth
election ?
The fact that a British flier named Cecil
Grace went up in the neighborhood of Dover
(England) about three weeks ago and has so far
failed to come down, though his cap and spec-
tacles have been found, recalls another long dis-
tance disappearer. An English balloonist named
Powell skied himself 28 years ago, and no news of
him has arrived to this day.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
ji OYAL “ Our Miss Gibbs.
Criterion “The Arcadians.” f
p AIArR “The Girl from Rector s.
Tivoli/.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'...'... Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Clontarf Maori Village.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's ** The Bad Girl of the I 1 aiiiily.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.
royal “ The Gay Gordons.”
King’s. . “The Christian.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tails’ Pictures.
St. Kilda Esplanade .. The Follies.
Long, long ago in old Jerusalem, when
there was no theatre or variety performance or
flickergraph, the Temple was the only entertain-
ment. It was always the same Temple ana
the same entertainment, and the local dra-
matic critic exhausted himself in his efforts to
give a new account of it in the Wkekly Koshkr
52 times per annum. The same sort of trouble is
beginning to arise in the matter of Our JVliss
Gibbs” at Sydney Royal.
** * *
“The Whip ” still holds up its end of the
log at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) as about the
horsiest drama Australia has seen. It gains no
great access of common-sense as time goes on,
but it is full of horse, and great is the steed
thereof. The horse is a curious beast in
melodrama, inasmuch as he is the only
bad character who always repents. In tbe
early part of the play he is usually a
villain whose treachery causes the noble but
idiotic male person who is engaged the
heroine to lose almost all his money. Then
the person bets what cash he has left on ms
betrayer for the Two Thousand Guineas or the
Two Billion Sixpences, or some such classic event,
and the beast hears of it, and decides to turn
honest. So he runs like the wind pursued by the
Devil, and wins, and all is gas and glory in the halls
of the idotic male person who nearly had to work
for his living. He (the idiotic, etc.) marries the
heroine, and for all we know to the contrary they
have nine sons who all go to the dogs, and the
eldest one sets the ancestral halls on fire through
reading a sporting paper in bed while unsober.
As for the horse, he doubtless ends bis career at
the Zoo after a long and troubled career between
the two prongs of a hansom cab.
** # *
For the present there will be only two
more weeks of the musical-comedy which starts
off better than any of the family seen since the
days of Gilbert and Sullivan. And it can t be
said that “TheArcadians ” tails off miserably even
if it doesn’t live right up to its promise; for no tail
could hang very dejectedly that had Peter Doody
for one of its joints. Sombra and her chum will
seek the monsters of London in their cages of
stone and iron till the 21st inst. Then those who
have got happy moments out of Fielding s lorn
Jones” may go to the Criterion and see what he
is like in comic opera. For.this production Mey-
nell and Gunn are importing a new comedian,
Tom Graves, to take the place of W. Cromwell,
who goes back to his English protectorate.
“ THE ARCADIANS," AT THE
CRITERION
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
William Crom-
well as Sim-
plicitas—“Truth
is so beautiful."
Tom Walls as
Peter Doody—
“Merry and
Bright.”
“The Girl from Rector’s” is still living
the double life at the Palace (Sydney), and young
women who are seeking information as to the
most complete and refined methods of being Mrs.
Piety when necessary and Miss Fli de Kyte when
circumstances permit, are confidently advised
that Grace Palotta is a whole handbook on the
subject. The comedy will continue until other-
wise notified, and when it is taken off it will be
too late to see H. H. \Vallace as Deacon Wiggle-
ford, who sings the lemon song. Anybody who
misses that ought to have a reasonable defence.
** * *
Some months ago, the Religious Editor
picked up an American magazine, which con-
tained an article lamenting the dying off of the
chestnut trees in the United States through the
ravages of a deadly fungus. The sympathetic
botanist responsible for the article dropped inky
tears on every page ; but the hardened reader
threw up his hat for joy, and hurried out to buy a
bottle of rum to celebrate the music-hall mil-
lennium. When all the chestnut trees were mere
dead stumps, comedians and entertainers wou d
really have to start dispensing comedy-and enter-
tainment, instead of merely hawking the fruit of
the vegetable under which the Village Blacksm
posed. However, after gleefully finishing the rum,
he went along to a Sundry Show and found that,
if the trees had gone the fruit remained. Immi -
diately gloom descended upon him, and lie went
forth and bought more rum. Julian Rose, the
Hebrew monologue entertainer who is tey«n«y
Tivoli’s latest star, is unlucky in having to follow
closely in the headlines of Walter Kelly, ie
ginian Judge. He has a handful of good resh
stories where Kelly had a jugful; also he scores
a lot of his laughs cheaply by the trick of using
the wrong word which most nearly resembles t e
right one. The rest of the show is supplied prin-
cipally by the Six American Dancers, the Bless-
ings, Fred Bluett, the Quealys, 1 rank Harwood
and Fanny Powers.
*« # *
From a strenuous visitor :
Disguised as myself, I went to Sydney Town Hall to
hear an organ recital last Saturday night. I P/»d Is. and
climbed the stairs to the best seat in the big hall, and a
man made me take a green dodger—afterwards discerned
to be the programme of music—as I entered, inis
dodger stated that the recital would be grand and
popular, and the hall was so full of chairs that I knew the
popularity to be disproved, and therefore suspected the
other adjective. There were a few people in the
wilderness of chairs. Probably £5 represented the
house, and lighting would come out of that,
leaving the charwoman and the printer and the a dver
tisements and the supply of wind for the organ and the
sustenance of the organist, Mr. E. Truman, A.K.C.0.,
Leip. R.0.M., to come out of profit and loss. The pro-
gramme had apparently been edited by the High Pe'>iover
of the Dog, or the Inspector of Nuisances, and it hurled
this statement at the simple people in the sixpenny seats
and at the probably more ignorant people in She dearer
** “ Qui habet aures audiendi, audiat.”
Likewise, at the end of the programme, it printed this :
<• Stay not upon the order of your going.”— Macbeth.
Apparently the wild humor had exhausted the ability of
the staff, for the music was deadly dull. Some of the
crudest and noisiest of Wagner, for the pretentious (if
there were any); “The Funeral M^ rc l s, of . lhe n^, ar t 1 1 °! 1 ‘
ette,” ill-done ; a sugary nocturne by Chopin , and then
“ Transcription of Our Miss Gibbs-Truman. Below that
line the literary expert of the Pavements Committee
had printed this: “Some of the tunes that Sydney is
impregnated with at the present time. ’ Impregnated . .
Marvellous ! It was noisy and raucous and interminable ,
it dishonored the fine instrument that gave it voice ; it
seemed such a pitiable thing to use a great organ so, that
“ Hev-diddle-diddle ” music might dirty it instead ot
cleaving fast unto the penny whistle that suited it. Mr.
Truman played so much of this stuff that he probably
liked it; but his likings should not dislocate the atmo-
sphere of a great building. There was aso A Moonlight
Trip to the Isle of Love,” by Bendel. This may!havebeen
a misprint for “ Moonlight Tripe to the Isle of Love, and
if it is I have no complaint. So for all this there was
about £5 in the house, and a big loss on the
night, and all for nothing. The programmes are
not good enough to attract the intelligent music
lover, and the most popular thing to the sprinkling
of groundlings was “ Yip-I-Addy-I-Aye,” an American
cheerfully-mad irresponsibility imported into Our Miss
Gibbs.” The organ is city property, and so is the lown
Hall; and if thousands of people stay away from grand
and popular organ recitals ” it means that the organ re-
citals must be made grand and popular and educative ij
the abolition of admission fees. It is better to play to a
full house that has come on the nod than to play to
£4 13s. 7d. in a wilderness of chairs. And the wild
aldermen should be prevented from printing Latin and bits
of Macbeth on the programme, and the programme it-
self should be arranged by a music committee that
would neither drown a musically-educated people with
Wagner on the one hand nor insult a great instrument
with ha’penny tunes on the other. If light stuff is
wanted, there is the choice of Arthur Sullivan and one or
two Australian composers who ought to be heard and
known. At present the “grand and popular recitals
rio-ht from the Latin quotations of the Bird Market In-
spector down to the horrible tripe of “ Miss Gibbs, are as
much insults to intelligence as they are pretentious and
expensive failures.
** * *
“ Jack and the Beanstalk,” which started
its Christmas at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) a little
earlier than the pantos, of bygone years, continues
to bring a somewhat larger quantity of uncloven
oof to the treasury than any previous annual
has accomplished in the same number of nights
and matinees. Consequently its virtues are as
sounding brass, and its shortcomings are ot no
consequence. Nothing quite so picturesque as the
winter-to-summer ball6t of “Jack and Jill
occurs in this panto., nor anything so strenu-
ously humorous as the two he-males who
drank tea together of yore ; but the show
that draws the money laughs comparison to
scorn, and the proof of the performance is in the
profits thereof. Hence The Bulletin has de-
cided to dismiss all complaints against the panto-
mime as frivolous.
** * *
The song-and-dance melodrama of “The
Gay Gordons ” has completed its third week at
Melbourne Royal, and the waning voice of one of
the imported ladies is now barely visible from the
back of the d.c. None of the new vocalists are
conspicuously loud, but the top note of the lead-
ing Heather Bell has fallen nearly to the level
of a whisper. On the other hand, the talking and
actin" of the co. are more forcible than at first,
and if the daughter of the Yankee millionaire
(Miss Imeson) would put some further restraint on
her restlessness, she should be quite satisfactory.
At present, she seems still in doubt as to whether
she’s taking part in a comedy-drama or a
musical farce; yet her parents outfit ought to
persuade the young lady to take herself quite
seriously when she isn’t singing. Poppa wears
the grey felt hat, with clothes to match, of the
typical American capitalist who dotes on his
darling girl. Even the British millionaire in
melodrama wears a colored hat if he’s of a mild
and gentle disposition, a black belltopper being
equally de rigeur with money-bugs who are cold
and merciless. But the British capitalist, at his
best, never sports a very light grey felt. Apart
from the time-honored significance of W. J. Mont-
gomery’s headgear, the evidences of melodrama
are irresistible. Doesn’t Maggie Knight stand
at a tub and wash the faces of five small girls
with real soap and water ? And isn t she grief-
stricken when her adopted son drops in for
£l5O 000 a year ? Doesn’t Miss Imeson herself
roll a yard of real dough with a genuine rolling-
pin and smack it in the eye of a presumptuous
marquis? Isn’t the house convulsed with laughter
when Angus gives her half a loaf of bread in addi-
tion to a bona-fide sandwich? Moreover, a live
donkey appears in the first act, and is tethered
outside the cottage of the poor widow who has
got notice to quit. All these things speak of
melodrama, and invite the heroine to behave
accordingly.
** * *
“The Bad Girl of the Family,” at the
Princess’s, seems to lie getting no better as time
goes on. Her advertisements are utterly un-
scrupulous. Citizens who rarely go to a
theatre, judging by the strangeness of their
appearance, are being lured to the Bad
Girl by the promise that “The Girls’ Dor-
mitory, The Bride’s Bedchamber, Their First
Wedding Night, Broken Harmony and Retiring
to Rest are the most realistic scenes ever seen on
any stage.” Which suggests that the Bad Girl is
a sultry matter for consideration, whereas all the
scenes she has to do with are as void of realism as
a toy elephant in a shilling Noah’s Ark. Perhaps
the last act of the romantic bellowcrammer is the
funniest. The absurdity of the Prison Marriage
is surpassed' by the spectacle of two fat convicts
helping one another to escape, after which the
prodigal daughter returns to her amazing mother
laden with provisions in a basket, and her sins are
forgiven her for the sake of the sausage she has
brought into the blighted home.
“ THE BAD GIRL OF
THE FAMILY," AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
The virtuous
Lieutenant
Richard Marsh,
R.N. (Robert
Inman).
Harry Diver as Barry Gordon,
the cver-scheminy villain.
At the King’s they are about to pay off
the gallant army of supers concerned in “ Ihe
Ladder of Life,” and withdraw that gory narrative
in favor of “ The Christian.” The Andersonian
version of Hall Caine’s novel is new to this
country, and Roy Redgrave has charge of it. He
plays the amorous fanatic who chases Glory
Quayle under the delusion that he’s thinking
about her soul; and Miss Duggan will be the
buxom red-haired lady who says, me,
John.” The fall of John commences on Satur-
day. Also, the Children's Pantomime will be
continued every afternoon next week and until
further notice.
** * *
A new turn at the Opera House is a riotous
comedy sketch by Daley Cooper and Mabel Lait.
The lady, blonde and shapely, appears as a
defiant matron with yearnings for military
officahs until her down-trodden husband breaks
out in extravagant regimentals, and suppresses
her insurrection. Cooper's low-comedy is mostly
humorous, and his fall-about business is ener-
getically conducted. Other principal turns are
Prince with his concertina, Woods and Fraser,
and Barnold’s Animal Mummers, headed by Dan.
* * *
Some hard things might be said of
“Flirty’s Affliction” at the Melbourne Glaciar-
ium, but its absurdities are so absurd that they
turn away wrath. The story of “The Clown and
the Minister ” keeps one splashing in puddles of
pathos, while the utter cruelty of Dago sports
will be seen in the game called “A Bull Fight in
Chili.” “ The Emigrant ”is the yarn of a person
who apparently loves to fall on the bosoms of all
who befriend him. This is possibly the form of
amusement that is generally known as “getting
on the bust.”
* * *
Regarding Spencer’s Pictures at Mel-
bourne Olympia, the present writer feels a par-
ticular partiality for “Jim, the Ranchman. It
is the tale of a big, blonde man who makes love
and bangs his servants with the fizzy energy of
a summer drink. “ Viareggio to Matanno pro-
vides some mountain scenes of respectable appear-
ance, while “A Good Kick Off” displays the
usual people tumbling down without humor or
reserve. The chief feature of “ The Tout’s Re-
membrance” is the vigor of the principal lovers.
They rush together with such force that it would
be a charity to supply them with a set of buffers.
** * *
The Follies at St. Kilda (Vic.) have been
indulging in the joys of reconstruction. The re-
sult is a show that is like a polite English novel
with gilt-edged leaves. Every word seems to
have been scoured and scrubbed, and all the jokes


PICTURE SHOWMEN should send to-day for a
copy of our latest Catalogue. Brimful of infor-
mation and useful hints. Also send for our Film
Lists— they are right up to now.— JERDAN’S, 393
■George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ĵ
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manag-er
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
are exceptionally well-behaved. Two new-comers,
Bert Leywood and Miss Ella Airlie, contribute
cleverly to the entertainment; while the little
ditties of Miss May Morell tickle the ear like
butterfly breaths. The Bulletin, however, is
not so interested as usual in comedian Crossley,
and wonders at the type of mind that conceived
his warble, “Pins.” It might be instructive to
have the author’s brain in a bottle, and take a day
off to watch it thinking.
** * *
Adelaide Tivoli has been starring the
Marbas, who are as funny as they are acrobati-
cally clever. An English team which has both
qualities is now on tap. The Australian Dartos,
who are clever without being funny, might take a
hint, since their brilliantly dramatic work now
tends to monotony. The Ifandies, playing in the
open at the Exhibition, have worked up a large
following, about half their turns each evening
being labelled, “By request.” Clean and clever
their show is, on English lines; that is to say,
most of the fun is light and “ piffling,” joyous to
those who take it in the right spirit, but a source
of amazement to others. At tbe Royal, Maggie
Moore has put up “ Struck Oil,” and a local critic
claims a world’s record for her, in that she has
been playing in the same part since 1873. (Sara
Bernhardt runs a close second.) West’s Pictures
and the Empire continue to duplicate their films
to some extent, but the latter specialises also in
local events, and has been showing the Port Ade-
laide regatta. Also, there have been various
amusements connected with the visit of bowlers
from all the States to Adelaide. The game is
said to be Scotch in origin, and certainly tbe hosts
did their best to see that the visitors were filled
with the national spirit.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Stargazer” : The proposal to put a revised version of
one of Johnny Sheridan’s Widow O’Brien gags on top of
the comedian’s grave in Waverley Cemetery is favored by
ihe profession.' The favored legend is:— '
Sacred to the Memory
of
John F. Shkridan.
“ Im sorry I’m here, I am.”
But the cemetery authorities reserve to themselves a sort
of censorship over tombstone inscriptions, and the proba-
bility is that they will buck at this unseasonable levity.
VVe all regard it as the culminating misfortune to be
dead. To say so on a man’s headstone is to publicly ad-
vertise that he has riot gone to Heaven, but hellswhere,
and that is something in the nature of a post-mortem
criminal libel.
“ Bromide” : Blew into Melbourne the other day, and
in the evening went to Her Majesty’s to have a look at
John and the Oow-peastalk. Got a bit disgusted at see-
ing the procession of imported “ artists ” on the bill ;
but, all the sanie, enjoyed the show. Was turned over
later to the company of a group of actors and actresses,
mostly “resting.” “Yes,” growled one, “it’s nearly
time the Australian public insisted on local talent being
given a chance.” “They ought to refuse to patronise
the theatres until we Australians are given a chance.
Why, we have to go to England, and there we score. It’s
monstrous,” thundered the heavy villain. “ Quite right,
old chap,” I thought. “It’s near time we patronised
good locals. We’ve got tons of much better stuff than
these English johnnies they fill their bills with.” I was
kicking myself right up to 1 p.m. next day because I’d
had a bob’s worth of imported, and had just mentally re-
solved on declaring a strike over the matter when I
saw the same crowd of out-of-work, indignant Australian
artists coming out of—where do you think? The Pekin
Cafe! A restaurant owned and manned by Chinese!
“Isn’t it a nice place?” says Miss Peroxide. “Charm-
ing, I’m sure,” agreed Gussie. “ Gehenna ! ” said I.
“Strike’s off.”
January 15 will be the 115th anniversary of the first
production of a drama in Sydney. “The Revenge ” and
“The Hotel” were the pieces produced. It was at this
performance that Barrington’s alleged prologue was said
to have been spoken. There is pretty good evidence,
however, that that prologue was written in London by a
literary hack, and was not spoken in Sydney at any time.
As to the show itself, the records say that the cash
takings were stolen before manager Sparrow could
“ bank ” them.
“One Who Pays ” : What sort of a piece is “The Gay
Gordons ”? A piece of impudence. Yet the variety biz,
and especially the good dancing, kept tuning me up as I
was dropping off. The play opens in the dark, with every-
body asleep ; and the first act is well under way before
the audience wakes up to see a dance. Oh, gi ve us librettos!
A comic opera called “Lady Teazle,” from “ The Schooi
for Scandal,” takes on in London. Now that’s the stuff.
Turn over those rich, racy Old English comedies, such as
“ The Rivals,” “ She Stoops to Conquer,” and “ The Road
to Ruin.” Music them up, as with “Tom Jones” and
“ Madame Sans Gene,” the latter turned into “ The
Duchess of Dantzic.” Feed the intellect just a little.
Mere hugger-mugging, slobber and the new style of
rubbing noses is not enough. We are not all bread and
butter misses.
“Blue Mask”: The Stinking-Fish actor is rapidly in-
creasing in Australia, as companies from ’Ome blow into
the country with greater frequency. These cos. are com-
posed mostly of actors (I’m not speaking of actresses just
now) to whom a job in the English Provinces at £5 or £6
a week is good business, and the sudden rise to the
affluence of £lO or £l5 and a big helping of
jam from the daily press, which rarely takes
its courage in its hand and spells it with a “d,”
gives them a distension of the top storey that is
often insufferable. The press agent helps to make it
worse. Anything he can get printed about his show is
so much to the good, and “faked personals” are the
easiest to place. Consequently, Mr. Harold Martinique,
“ the beauty man ”of the Bangle Girls Comic Opera Co., is
“ puffed ” as the madly besought lover of the Sidbourne
Society woman ; somebody else is “puffed” as an author
of Shakspearian tonnage ; another as a slayer of ferocious
bluebottles or some such wild game, and so ori.
All of which “guff” is very bad for Mr. Swollen
Head, if he takes it seriously, and it is leading him
into at least one practice that will surely turn round and
snatch his job from him. We’ll say Swollen Head has
been playing a fairly good part in “ The Pansy Girl,” and
is allotted a part that doesn’t please his distended top-
piece in “The Mushroom Girl.” This is how he lets his
friends and the general public know what to expect. He
drops into the club or one of the good pubs and picks up a
party; talks “ shop ” to them, because he can’t
talk anything else, and casually mentions that he’s been
rehearsing “The Mushroom Girl” all day. “And a
d— d rotten show it is, between ourselves,” he says.
“ There’s not a decent part in it. I’ve had to make a
special effort. The boss said: * Here, old man ; you’re
the only one who can do anything with this. For the
Lord’s sake, build it up somehow.’” And so on in every
bar that is visited during the time * The Mushroom Girl ’
is being perfected. Naturally, the statement goes the
rounds that one or two of the principals or semi-principals
have passed the tip that the show is “ rotten,” and
the pay-box suffers. So pronounced has this become
lately that managers are considering the necessity of
putting a sudden and effective stop to it, and if several
understudies are presently found in the places of un-
accountably-missing players, this paragraph will give a
hint as to the reason. It might also serve as a hint to the
Stinking-Fish purveyor, but he’ll have to take it rapidly.
One prominent manager says that the first man to whom
he can fasten the fault will be “ kicked out of the cast
neck and [unprintable] crop ! ”
“ Pollio ” : That a musical comedy should be futile and
banal as comedy' and trivial as music one expects, and
has even come to enjoy. But cause for exasperation still
remains. If the material is poor the workmanship may
yet be good ; if music-hall songs must be interpolated, at
least the most might be made of them. For 100 perform-
ances and more the spectators of “ Our Miss Gibbs ” have
been called upon to applaud a liltingtnelody with vaguely
irresponsible words —“ Yip-I-Addy-I-Ay ”is perhaps the
most irresponsible, but not by much. These are delivered
in the conventional fashion by the comic man with a stiff
background of solemnly vivacious chorus girls, who
cavort occasionally during the repetition of the aforesaid
incantation. But consider what might have been
done. After all, the song has a sort of theme. It
purports to be the story of a magical tune, which
swings all hearers off their feet into joyful recklessness.
And in fact it swings no one, not even the singer. It’s in
the wrong place altogether. Put it somewhere else and
see how it fits. Let the singer begin to murmur it
casually in the big emporium scene of Act 1., tickled by
the memory of it, and paying no attention to anyone
about him; let the tune do its work first on a shopper
passing behind him, then on two or three of the young
and flighty bridesmaids, then on more shoppers, urging
them to Swirl off in dance with the girls who are serving
them, then spread itself upward to the costume-showers
of the gallery, till at last the whole stage is full of ser-
vers and served snatched out of themselves and swaying
to the waltz that is supposed to be so fascinating, and
the manager himself for a moment forgets his dignity to
tread a stiffly seductive measure with the principal hat-
lady. Isn’t thait effective and eneoreable ?
Mel B. Spurr’s widow died in London in November.
She had been desperately hard up, and the Actors’
Benevolent Fund had just started to assist her and her
daughter.
Clarence Brune, Tittell’s husband, who came out to
Australia with the lady and froze hard at the Sydney
Criterion, is now an LL.D. of a Canadian University. He
and Tilly (out of a job when the last mail left) are living
near London, where Clarry is alleged to be doing some
tremendous historical study in pliocene trago-comedy, or
something such.
That old autocrat, Marchesi, has decreed that Miss Yera
Hempseed—who is at present first favorite in the great
singing teacher’s affections—shall no longer be known by
her agricultural designation. For the future, therefore,
the young Australian’s signboard will read, “ Mademoiselle
Tasma. ”
May Chevalier and her husband, Hamilton Stewart,
who played here with Cuyler Hastings in “ Sherlock
Holmes” and other dramas, are said to have grown rich
by touring their own co. around Britain in “ The Mummy
and the Humming Bird.”
Dolly Castles, who appears as “ principal boy ” in this
year’s Drury Lane panto, is the second Australian girl to
fill that not very thankful billet. Dolly is said to look
rather small for the part, whereas Nellie Stewart, the
other Australian, was just the right height and figure for
it. Nellie was engaged as panto “ boy ” at the Lane for two
or three years in succession, and on her first appearance
was accepted by the London papers as a newly-discovered
variety artist from the provinces. The D.T. spoke of her
as “ an attractive young lady with a good voice and con-
siderable stage experience ’’—which, considering that she
had previously played the heroine in 50 comic operas in
Australia, was not exactly an exaggerated statement of
the case.
“ Toolooa ”: What a contented man the actor is ! Each
night he does a turn for his bread and butter—just plain
bread and butter—nothing more. It would hurt his feel-
ings to give him an egg, or even an over-ripe tomato.
Apropos the amusement boom in Sydney, here is a list
of the cos. registered last year, to give the public what
it seems to want, confining the catalogue to those with a
nominal capital of over £50,000 : Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co., £200,000; J. O. Williamson, Ltd.,
£180,000; Auditorium, Ltd., £150,000; J. D. Williams
Amusement, Ltd., £100,000; West’s Pictures, Ltd.,
£100,000; Olympia, Ltd., £100,000; Stadium, Ltd.,
£75,000. Of course, the nominal capital wasn’t
put up in every case, if it was in any case;
and the “Greater” Williams Co. took over the
other Williams Co. The issued capital of this picture
concern is understood to be over £lOO,OOO ; and the £1
shares were sold lately at 30s. The Auditorium, Ltd.,
registered in the last days of the year, has the Taits
interested in it, so presumably another picture and concert
hall is at least in the wind.
The Brisbane Theatre Royal is now' unoccupied for the
first time in six years. Ted Holland, who w'as there
during that time, has shifted to the newly-built Empire
Theatre.
“Cousin J.”: In Moonta mines, where “skimpin-
burr’s” (tailings heaps) pierce the sky, and the limpid
waters of the slime-dams reflect the perfect splendor of
the moon, the men of Cornwall most do congregate ; and
“Carols” flourish like a green bay tree. You don’t
know what a Christmas Eve can be till you’ve heard the
11th party of Cornish carollers in a mining town. These
parties form early in the evening—most of them belong to
chapel choir—-and move by devious routes from house to
house, observing in perfect harmony as they go—“ Hark !
the herald angels sing.” Etiquette demands that the
householder shall arise and kill the fatted pasty and
drag the sparkling “swanky” (home-made hop beer) from
its lair. Now old Tommy Tregilgas, though wealthy, is
mean, and suffers from temporary deafness w'hen “ carol
parties” are about. In vain, this Christmas, did “shep-
herds watch their flocks by night,”and “ good king YVen-
ceslaus looked down ”to no purpose. “ Damme 1 ” said
Willyum George Polglase to his mates. “ Giv’un coupler-
bars o’“Ark! Hark!’ an’if that dawn’t fetchum—why,
then, dang him ! ” As it didn’t fetchum, I suppose
Tommy Tregilgas is danged. 1 know that the fact that
he didn’t “ treat ” the carollers will be a black mark
against him all the year.
Pneumonia has carried off Henry Lee, better known in
Australia in connection with the World’s Entertainers,
and as the producer and player of the name-part in
“ Cyrano de Bergerac.” Henry, who died in Chicago,
aged about 60, made character impersonation one of his
principal stunts. He could appear as Napoleon gazing on
Austerlitz, or as Julius Caßsar eating oysters with just the
aid of a frown, some togs, and a dab of paint. His par-
ticular talent is also present in his brother, who is at
present appearing with Rickards under the name of
Julian Rose.
“U.S.”: Wilbur Chapman and C. M. Alexander have
had a talk to 1000 other showmen in the Olympic Theatre
at Chicago. It was on the afternoon of a matinee of the
play of “ The Aviator,” given to the profession by Manager
Lederman. The name suggested to him the idea of calling
in the Sky Pilots. It was arranged that they should have
40 minutes before the play started. Alexander had the
first turn, with pianist Harkness, of Bendigo, as accom-
panist. Chapman then came on. The number of con-
verts isn’t stated.
_“H.H.”: Some wildly original person named the
aeroplane race at Los Angeles (U.S.A.) the Aerial Derby.
Now, in the distance, I foresee the Melbourne Skup,
which will be the Melbourne Sky Cup cut short. Why, I
wonder, did some wooden blitherer devise the idea of an
Air Derby? There are so many possible good names
which don’t suggest an earth-bound existence—the
Heaven Handicap, the .Jupiter Plate, the Dog-Star Stakes,
the Space Hurdles with the Milky Way for a water
jump, the Milky Cup and the Sky Steeple, to mention
only half a dozen.
The slump in trade that fell upon Maoriland some time
ago doesn’t seem to have put any mildew on the theatrical
business. Bertßovle, who is J. C. Williamson’s represen-
tative in the Islands of the Blessfed Mortgage, provides the
information that there were more touring companies in the
country during the last two years than there had been
in any of the previous 20. Ten years ago there were not
more than three Williamson shows passing through in a
year. In 1908 there were seven ;in 1909, eight; and in
1910, eight. The Clarke-Meynell firm has also lately been
sending shows to M.L. ; picture entertainments have
blossomed like the wild thistle; the Fullers have built
several variety halls and are building more; and alto-
gether the showman is so prosperous that he can hardly
button his veskit over his affluence. For 1911 practi-
cally all the theatres in the main centres have been
booked, and J. C. Williamson has got his eye so far ahead
that six tours have been scheduled for 1912.
A notice has been issued by the N.S.W.
Navigation Department that it intends from
January, 1911, to charge a harbor rate on all craft
in Port Jackson, including pleasure yachts regis-
tered at the Customs. This means that at Bd.
per ton Sydney yacht owners will be called upon
to pay as much as 11s. per keel per year.
Judging by the row they are making about it, it
might be £llO. It appears that, by warrant of the
British Admiralty, the yachts of the Royal Sydney
Club are exempt from the payment of port dues,
which is more than passing kind of the Admiralty
seeing that the dues are not the Admiralty’s to
remit. Nevertheless, and in accordance with all
precedent, the wealthy owners of these pleasure
craft are choking with wrath at the thought of
being asked to pay anything towards the upkeep of
their pleasure ground, and are threatening to defy
the Law to come aboard and mention the matter
within the hearing of the blue ensign. At time
of writing, the Law had not shown its hand ; but
when the time for action arrives, the hand will no
doubt be on deck all right, and the next thing that
will happen will be the towing of a full-rigged
yachtsman towards the Water Police dock.
THE NEW
LORD
MAYOR OF
MELBOURNE
—COUNCIL-
LOR DAVEY.
Strange that the fastest howler and the
slowest river in Australia—the one into which
O’Malley’s Federal capital is going to dip its pan-
nikin—should bear the same name :
Test match triumphs should remind us,
Though our cricket is sublime,
We, departing, leave behind us
Shanties by a strip of slime.
Admiral Henderson, the visiting nava?
expert, is reported to have recommended that th«
State Government should hand over to the
Federal Government the training ship Sobraon to
be used as a training ship for the Australian navy.
If the thing can be fixed up it will be a godsend
for Ma, who is finding the Sobraon a sort of white
sea elephant. In 1910 the boys on board the
training hulk were the fewest on record, and the
discharges exceeded the admissions. There were
not enough boys, in fact, to man the sea-going
tender Dart. Nevertheless there is no reason
why the Commonwealth should not make the
Sobraon a profitable nursery for the young navy.
Otherwise the vessel will have to go ; in which
case its destination will probably be the wood-
heap.
Extract from the evidence given in the
course of a quaint row about a hobble frock in
Paddington (Sydney) police court last week :
The Magistrate : Now, about trying this dress on ? It
will be more satisfactory.
The plaintiff agreed.
The Magistrate : That is the best way ; there are plenty
of rooms.
Mrs. Ryan : I will put it on.
Mr. Parker : Oh, no. Miss Sheen will try it on.
Mrs. Ryan : I object. I want to be at the putting of it
on and see that it is hooked properly, and also to see if
Miss Sheen has the same amount of clothes on.
Miss Sheen : Miss Sheen has always the same amount
of clothes on.
That cold, proud statement may be quite accu-
rate ; but if so, it must be very awkward for Miss
Sheen when she goes surf-bathing, and not too
comfortable in bed, and her neglect to put on
something extra in the winter is calculated to
prove very bad for her chest.
Maoriland had the yellow flag flattering
above its New Year greetings, the steamer Knight
of the Garter having arrived at Lyttleton with a
case of smallpox aboard. The ship left Shanghai
on December 10 direct for Otago Heads to pick
up orders, and five days later the second officer
was down with the disease. The skipper then
decided to make for Wellington, but heavy
weather drove him on to Lyttelton. Apart from
the second officer, the man who is suffering most
from the stroke of ill-luck is W. C. Dodds, a
Queenslander, who for five years has been
traffic inspector on the Imperial railways of
North China at Tang-ku, Manchuria. Desir-
ous of getting the most out of a few months’
leave of absence, he shipped by the Knight of the
Garter direct for Maoriland, where he intended
to visit some friends ; and all be got in return for
his expedition was two weeks in the Quarantine
station at Lyttelton. His only consolation is that
his wife also got two weeks in the same prison.
The Adelaide police-court statistics for
1910 were almost bad enough to make the wowser
say •‘dash.” In spite of local option and the shut-
ting of many pubs, more people were fined for
wearing vine-leaves in their hair in public than in
any other twelvemonth period for 20 years. Also,
in other departments of crime the Holy City mis-
laid some of its sanctity. Thus the railway
authorities woke up, and secured numerous con-
victions against merchants and others for having
made false statements re consignments. Also,
with the advent of the Metropolitan County Board
of Health, the convictions under the Food and
Drugs Act increased from three in 1909 to 31 in 1910.
On the other hand, the offences with which the
ordinary Billjim person is mostly connected
showed a remarkable falling-off : what are de-
scribed as “serious offences” slumped from 350
to 233. The murder of infants by supplying the
parents with colored water instead of milk, or
chalk instead of flour, isn’t a “serious offence,” ef
course. It is merely a “custom of the trade,”
and if you like you can practise it and still be a
good wowser
The alleged rise in the price of food isn’t a
patch upon the rise in the price of the S. Australian
barmaid. Two years ago it was enacted that no
more girls would be allowed to enter the profes-
sion, but those already in might stay in under a
system of registration. As a result the price of a
Crow-eater barmaid has already risen from 255.
to 40s. per week, and she is on the ascent.
How high she will go no one knows.
There must be a point at which, as she
still goes up owing to her growing scarcity,
she will be met by herself coming down by
reason of increasing years and the deterioration
of the article, and then there will be a brief period
of equilibrium followed by a downward movement.
But in the case of the younger members of
the sisterhood, that drop in value may be a long
way off yet. A far-seeing licensed victualler
might do a good stroke of business by getting a
durable-looking barmaid to sign on with him for
a long period—a barmaid not quite in her first
youth, so that she would be the more likely to
escape matrimony ; possibly a widow or grass
widow. Then he should hire a beauty expert and
a physical culturist and a Turkish bath woman, to
keep his barmaid in good repair for as long as
possible. It will be a national calamity when the
last barmaid begins to show the ravages of age,
and if that calamity could be postponed even by
buying her a whole Turkish bath and shampoo
establishment for her own use, it would be worth
while. The last aboriginal has been made a sub-
ject of poetry and tears ; but he isn’t a patch on
the last beer girl.
New Year’s Eve was a dull, drab time in
Sydney, when 1910 was handing the keys over to
1911. “All rowdyism must be firmly stamped
out,” commanded the chief constable ; and the
force, well enough aware of what the gimlet-eyed
wowser would class as “rowdyism,” carried out the
order so rigidly that, despite the “shadowing”
that was carried on by a number of “well-meaning
enthusiasts” in the cause of Purity, not a John
was reported for laxity. The cheerful and
domesticated Blinks, padding home with a lob-
ster-claw in his button-hole and a list to port,
singing a hiccoughy chanty to himself, was
tapped on the shoulder and given a warning that
sent him home on the fly, sobered as one might
be who had providentially escaped falling over a
precipice. The two small boys who tore round in
a frenzy of indecision concerning the disburse-
ment of the five bob uncle sent, suddenly found
their light darkened by a gigantic policeman with
a notebook. Nothing in this world creates a panic
in the small boy like the official notebook,
and on New Year’s Eve Billy and Ginger and
Fatty saw it approaching from all directions.
Where the girls were stopped in their promenade
by a couple of the lads, the “ move-on ” was
simultaneous with the salutation; there was no
music, no singing, no laughter, nothing. The
S. M. Herald reported that “one man was seen
to dance a jig on the pavement and shout
‘Hurrah!’ but those who saw him immediately
hurried away to avoid arrest as accessories after
the fact.” The Bulletin, however, saw no sign
of such hilarity. All it saw was a trailing crowd
shepherded by hundreds of watch dogs, moving
aimlessly from street to street like Philistine
guests at a wowser’s wedding.
OUR NEIGHBOR’S GRAMOPHONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our next-door neighbor’s got a Gramophone,
And nightly does he lightly let her go ;
He tolerates no music but his own—
That Tin Banshee that persecutes us so ;
Whatever time that fearsome shriek is blown
Our terrace answers with a hollow groan.
Our next-door neighbor’s got a Gramophone !
It has a repertoire of lovely lays,
It sings of “ Mary and the Mellow Moon
Its bagpipe airs win pure unstinted praise
From ev’ry fou’ and foolish Highland loon ;
It mimics well the butcher’s morning bawl;
It imitates the cat’s wild caterwaul,
And sends the fear of Judgment through us all.
No sooner do we get our dinner down
And seek our evening’s cool verandah chair,
Than, squealing like a demon come to town,
The Thing begins to riot in its lair ;
A sudden shudder shakes us flesh and bone,
We hear the churchyard gibber in its tone.
Our next-door neighbor’s got a Gramophone 1
From 7 p.m. till midnight doth it wail
The while we sit in paralytic dread ;
And we, who once were fairly stout and hale,
Now shake as though we saw the Risen Dead ;
O ye, whose bosoms be not all of stone,
Have pity when you hear us make our moan :
Our next-door neighbor’s got a Gramophone !
A cat-fight is its giddy Allegro,
A choir of kookaburras is its blare ;
We shiver at its pianissimo,
Its forte is a devil in despair ;
There’s madness in the sadness of its drone ;
We curse it up from Tophet to the throne,
Our neighbor’s paralysing Gramophone !
There’s not a barrel-organ ventures nigh
The haunted air of our unhappy street ;
The dogs have bid the neighborhood good-bye,
The tabbies all have found another beat;
Sweet peace is from our side for ever down,
Our terrace echoes with a hollow groan.
Our next-door neighbor’s got a Gramophone !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNES BORN.
THE CURATE SHIVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The severe father, horrified at this duplicity, promptly
turns Brancaster out of his house, and forbids his grand-
daughter ever to see him again. Meanwhile the curato
shivers, for he knows that the marriage was bogus, but is
afraid to speak, as he is in the power of Sartoris. —Press
notice of “ The Whip."
lie shivers, the curate !
A grim situation ;
lie scarce can endure it l
For one in his station
A grim situation l
He scarce can endure it!
The man’s almost dying!
But there’s no denying !
He can’t kill or curate !
So he must endure it !
He shivers, the curate !
N. S. W.
REV. TORIAS BRIEF-YELY.


fgj
1911
Make it a Red
Letter Year for
Yourself & Family.
START THE YEAR WELL—
’ by buying a Motor Car. You will be laying up a store ot
health and pleasure that no other means can equal.
Here are five Standard Cars to select from
The DAIMLER.— Grand Brix, World’s Exhibition, Brussels, 1910.
The AUSTlN.— British manufacture throughout.
The DELAUNAY “BELLEVILLE. —The Flower of the French
Automobile Industry.
The F.N.— (Fabrique Nationale). Manufactured by the Belgian
Arms Factory. Flawless as a gun-barrel.
The SCHACHT MOTOR BUGGY.— The only Motor Buggy
that has stood the test of time.
Sole
Agents:
DALCETY S CO. LTD.
136-138 Phillip St.,
Sydney.
ĵ
MEN’S SUMMER HATS
Illustrated here are two very popular Summer Hats—light and shady, the
most serviceable for Country wear—at modest prices. If you live
out of town, remember, these hats will cost exactly the prices quoted, for
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on these goods to
any part of the
Commonwealth.
wmmmm
9RRHB
Smlmmiiai
Men’s Panama Hats, as illustration—the brims
vary trom 2iin. to 3Jin. in width. 15/6, 21/=,
25/=, 30/=, 35/= and 63/=
Lounge Felt Hat, in Plover Green, Beaver and
Grey, as illustration, 15/6.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp< G.P.0.,
... SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
A frequent visitor at some big baths in a
Melbourne seaside suburb attracted attention re-
cently, He came early, and stayed late on warm
days when business was brisk ; he even went so far
as to sometimes bring his lunch. It was noticed
that he was content to be a spectator merely.
When cash and watches were surreptitiously
abstracted from bathers’ deserted garments, natur-
ally enough distrust fell on the nice young
man who seemed content to watch and prey.
Eventually a police officer laid a large hand
on the spectator, and led him into a private
room, where it was explained that money
and goods had just gone astray from the
changing boxes, and as suspicion attached to him
as firmly as if it had been fastened there with
undiluted glue, it would perhaps be as well if he
submitted quietly to a search. The youthful
spectator instantly fell into hysterics. It wasn’t
that he had stolen anything ; it was simply that
he was the 19-vear-old daughter of very respect-
able parents, and the victim of a keener curiosity
than very respectable parents would be likely to
approve.
* * * *
The round, shining devil’s tail which
hangs over Sydney broke loose one morning last
week, and shook up the nerves of several tram-
loads of people under the colonnade of the alleged
Central Railway Station. It set fire to the roof of
a tram, and gave 14 blue firework displays before
the tramway people, to whom it belongs, grabbed
the writhing thing with the emergency tongs
after a stern chase of 12 minutes. The average
man firmly believes that the sting of the Tail is
instantly 'fatal, and he is prepared to leap an
extraordinary distance to avoid contact with
it. He knows that it has slain draught horses
outright, and all the assurances of the tramway
authorities that it is only loaded with 600 volts,
and that he is quite capable of standing three
times as much electricity as a draught horse isn t
going to stop him leaping. One high official is
reported to nurse a theory that the horse dies
because he stands on four legs instead of two ; but
this isn’t much comfort to the traveller, because
a touch of the cable is sufficient to throw a man
violently on his hands and knees—in which case,
he is just as badly off as the horse. Presumablj ,
in an encounter with a live cable, a man with one
insulated wooden leg would merely think he had
received a kick from a ghost, while a man with
two timber supports would tell the lady behind
him to stop tickling.
The recent disturbance, which may be
called the Skrimnmge of London, because it was
too small for a battle and too big for a mere
attempt to resist arrest or to eject a non-paying
tenant, may be the beginning of a new order of
things in Britain. For a long time that country
admitted the Anarchist without question, and
furnished him with a place of refuge when the
foreign police wanted him badly. Of late it has
been less lavish in this fashion, but still Britain
has treated the bomb-throwing brother with great
consideration. In return the Anarchists didn’t
shoot at the British royal family, though they
shot at every other one. But the other day
certain persons robbed a jeweller’s place in
Houndsditch, London, and incidentally fired
on some police. Some of them were traced to an
Anarchist haunt, and they defended it so sturdily
that 1000 police, a quantity of soldiers, and some
machine-guns were called in before the Skrimmage
of London was ended. The place didn’t surrender,
hut two bodies—alleged to be the wrong bodies—
were found among the burnt ruins. The episode
has shaken the country up so badly that Britain
will probably begin to reconsider its attitude
towards the refugee Anarchist, and if it recon-
siders it too much he will probably end the long-
established truce and shoot at the British royal
family just as he does at any other one.
» * * *
The railway service of Taifc, for the disor-
ganisation of which he was recently be-knighted,
succeeded last week in pushing a special train
over 14 miles of line in one and three-quarter
hours. Some insolvent, brooding Hamlet, return-
ing by way of the sleepers from the unapprecia-
tive provinces, will yet overtake and crash into the
tail-end of one of the Victorian trains and fracture
his property skull, to the great detriment of Art.
* * * *
Mining in New Caledonia has been given
a lift lately by the discovery of a process for
treating nickel ore by electricity, and arrange-
ments have been made to dump 2000 Japanese
and Javanese into the mines. The Japs will
sweat as “ indentured ” labor at the rate of £3 a
month and “found,’’ while the Javanese are being
drafted in as cattle and sold at auction. The
syndicate which collects them pays their passages,
and on arrival at their destination knocks them
down at an average price of £l4 or £l5 a head.
The purchaser is required to pay his nigger 16s. to
20s. a month, in addition to “found,” and pay
his passage home—if he ever goes home. The
British Vice-Consul stated recently that 2000
chocolate skins would not be enough to satisfy the
demand for dirt-cheap labor which existed not only
in New Caledonia, hut in New Guinea, the Solo-
mons, Tahiti and other islands, and he remarked
that the shortage “was causing very grave con-
cern to capitalists.” The Vice-Consul reckoned
there was no alternative to the Chinese, Japanese
and Javanese, and when an agitated newspaper
man expressed apprehension on account of this
closer creep on Australia and Maoriland by the
yellow-fanged North, the Vice-Consul “merely
shrugged his shoulders.” Which is the way they
have in the diplomatic service of saying “My
blanky troubles! ”
AN AWFUL NIGHT.
PERCY VICTOR: “Looking quite haggard to-day,
old chap. Not feeling well? ’
OLD CHAP: “No! Fact is, Percy, I had a
deuced bad night. Couldn’t decide which
pai-ah of socks I ought to wea-ah to-day.
Weally it plays the devil with a chap’s
nerves! ”
From the Oldest Inhabitant :
_ .
The head office of the Australian Bank of Commerce in
Sydney is to be extended along the King-street frontage.
To accomplish this an old land mark will be demolished,
“ M. Hoadley’s Building*, 1842,” can be read on the coping*
stone. Mrs. Hoadley was an “ old hand whose hus-
band, a butcher, presently disappeared mysteriously. In
the year 1845 Mrs. Hoadley provided another mystery;
she was murdered in her bed, and, though there was a trial,
nobody was ever convicted. The first person to answer
the call for help when the dead body was found was Mr.
J. K. Heydon, father of Judge and Louis Hevdon, who
lived in one of the shops. The little adopted girl who
inherited the Hoadley property is still living at Mosman,
and her little girl became one of Sydney’s best-known
pianists.
* * * *
D. C. McLaehlan, the Commonwealth’s Pub-
lie Service Commissioner, doesn’t bubble over with
. ,i _ _ 1,,,,!,
as much enthusiasm concerning female assistants
as some cheap-labor employers do ; and, going
only on his own figures, be has grave doubts
about “the economic soundness’ of a principle
frequently enunciated, that equal pay should be
granted irrespective of sex distinctions.” Most of
the Commonwealth’s female servants are in the
Post Office; and McLaehlan has dug out the
fact that there, while 29 per cent, of the male
officers get sick leave, 43 per cent, of the
other sort are off at some time or other dur-
ing the year. Every 10 male officers in the
service lose among them 59 days in the year
on account of sick-leave ; every 10 females
lose 125 days. And the female officer
—telephonist, for example—not only
goes off oftener, but stays off longer :
26 days against the male’s 17 days, as
an average. McLaehlan doesn't exactly
say that they go off oftener than they
need; he only points out the fact,
adds that the males go into more try-
ing situations than the females, and
comes back to the starting point that
the machine, so to speak, which,
breaks down twice where another
machine only breaks down once has a
pretty heavy handicap to wipe out.
Hobart, of all places in the world, engi-
neered a reform last; week by taking the oath in a
new way. The witness now simply says “I
swear ” —and then proceeds, no doubt, to tell the
lie in the old way.
* * * *
“ Orient ” ' introduces a. Minister of Grace
and Elegance :
With due jealousy to secure Australian work for Aus-
tralians, care must be taken to get foreign advice when
essential. Let us consider how far it is needed in regard
to laying out the capital city. America can lend the
best hand. It has experts in the planning of towns
which have become great. Even Dowie had wise heads .
behind him, and Voliva makes good at Zion, through the
expert business help. One Burnham is the foremost citv-
maker. His vast plans for Chicago are the prime attrac-
tion of the town-planning show open in London. The
TJ.S. Government has employed him at Manila. It found
a city of 200,06 f) people, and is laying it out for 2,000,000.
Burnham has a free hand, except that he works under the
advice of a Council of Seven, four of them Filipinos.
There is Manila Intermuros and Extramuros, inside and
outside the walls. As Burnham strictly preserves
righteous antiquities, the walls stop, though only as mere
ornaments. But an old moat, rich in malaria, has
been filled up, and presents a sweet green girdle to the
old city, like the walk round Vienna where the ramparts
were. The old city is so purified by a sewerage system
that cholera and smallpox, which used to be perpetual,
are reduced to the easily manageable, and will be
knocked out like yellow fever was in Central
America. In developing the new outside city,
Burnham follows lines very like the grand ones that were
in the mind of the layer-out of Toowoomba (Q.). First in
importance is the great Square, modelled on those of
Leipsic and Glasgow, but far more comprehensive. In
those cities public offices and certain leading institutions
have come to be grouped round one square. Burnham de-
signs to have all the Philippine government and the local
government of Manila clutched in one big handy block, on
TA ICING A MENTAL NOTE OF IT.
OLD G ENT: “ All right, 60891 W—I’ll fix you I”
a scale which looks centuries ahead. Apropos, just con-
sider, for one detail, how the Sydney and Melbourne post
offices have been jammed. Then there is the Philippine
Universitv in another quarter; so far, of course, it is
only sketched on a map. Another monster enterprise is
a new hotel. Total cost, £90,000 ; the Government takes
£60,000 in shares, and Public Enterprise has eagerly
crowded in for the other £30,000. The Government, for
some inscrutable reason, doesn’t consider it wise to take on
the whole job, as in little Gwalia, Westralia. At present
the place lias just the one sea-front. Burnham will give
it throe frontages to the ocean, by pushing dykes, right
out into the ample bay. But clearly, for this kind of
thing you must have material. What sort of a job could
even Burnham make of a city on a chain of inland water-
holes?
THE GLAD NEW YEAR AND I.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They send me gaily flowered cards,
Wit.ii messages of “ love ” and “ peace,”
The while within Suburbia’s yards
I hear the squawk of fattened geese.
The postman brings me “ tidings glad ”
In envelopes perfumed and big ;
But ah ! the soul of me is sad
Because of butchered sucking pig.
I see them in the shops in rows,
Their baby eyelids closed in death,
Their bosoms white as virgin snows,
And sage and onions on their breath.
Forlorn old roosters cooped in pens
Look out at me with mournful eyes,
And dangling lines of slaughtered hens
Wave sadly when ttie zephyr sighs.
The flour upon their bony breasts
Disguises yellow skin and all,
And errant fancy soon suggests
The waiting wallflowers at a ball.
The ghost of Herod at my side
In satisfaction seems to jig ;
And Herod’s smile is grim and wide—
He sees the murdered infant pig.
How can I play a joyous part,
Or take in truth the words that greet,
When man with murder in his heart
Proceeds to kill, and kill, and eat?
I know, alas ! the “ glad New Year ” ;
I know the “ tidings ” that it brings ;
Its “ messages ” are mostly beer,
Cigars, and tips, and —other things.
For when the brutal orgy’s past,
With all its vile attendant ills,
The postman showers thick and fast
The “greetings” of my unpaid hills.
I only crave the simple life,
Some bread and wine beneath a tree ;
But oh ! my children and my wife,
They will not, will not, let it be.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.
Gathering
Apples
is gafKermg Myples>
foe leafi-j <,tveer,
/Hv lurrm dapples |||||
iflll foe ground vvifocgreeo
/Hutumt? 3tjns'biße dapples 1 v -jC
IPVoc-k and arms?, anci h2x\\Py||||
TRose amid her apples cdW
'jg>Kjsktrtg &ees me there Mm
Her applet/ r
lb chide and s>cold
WKHe the sunshine dapples
/Oil foe ground with gefod
pfb ere Woe dapples
maid tbi> i>
/ml lke apples,
lllllh Us. the place for kisses
David Mekee Wright
NSW


UiUSMT
Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
DIRECTIONS ROUND EACH TABLET.
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1 908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
By Special
Appointment
jgh
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, “ <w " s
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding- Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
This Panama for the Many Hot
Days Ahead!
, i •
: -
-
i m
■>
■ f
i i
Prices 15/0 and 18/6, Post Free.
WE carry a great number of
styles in Panamas—every
one of them quality Hats
with character, and correctly
blocked as a Panama requires to be !
No Panama is permitted in our
stock that has any flaw—we rigor-
ously discard such as they reach us
from South America —all are of
good even color and closely plaited
in one piece.
You’ve all the real Summer ahead
of you yet. Provide for it with one
of these Panamas.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Tramway Co. seems to have
been guilty of an absurd “bloomer” in its old
age. On Monday, January 2, the conductors on
the various lines refused to accept the red “city ”
ticket as legal tender, and demanded either a
twopenny ticket or 3d. in cash, for a journey
within the ordinary lid. radius. For justifica-
cation of this demand they referred passengers
to the printed Statement on the red ljd.
ticket:—“ Good for adult or child except on
New Year’s or Cup days.” The company’s
charter was disgraced by a special clause, per-
mitting the public to be specially rooked on those
two holidays of the year, arid when the New Year
holiday falis on January 1 the cormorantic com-
pany is within its rights. But seeing that New
Year’s Day is not a movable feast, and can’t pos-
sibly be January 2, the co. this year had to choose
between barring the use of city tickets on the
Sunday, when there was very little traffic on the
lines, or bluffing the public with the pretence that
the gazetted Monday holiday was actually New
Year’s Day. A few wily citizens got free rides
by tendering a city ticket to the conductors and
giving their names and addresses instead of their
fare when the ticket was refused. The company,
it goes without saying, was not such a fool as to
sue these combative persons for the fare they
hadn’t paid, and thus raise the question of
legality as regards the thousands of people
who paid twopence or threepence for a three-
halfpenny ride. But the combative ones have
been talking about their smartness, and now
the Tramway Co. directors are probably won-
dering what would happen if a syndicate of
public-spirited citizens w r ere to subscribe the cost
of prosecuting somebody on a charge, say, of
obtaining money under false pretences.
* * * *
The story of our Colored Brother cropped
up again last week, and the papers were much
adorned by remarks like this :
Missionaries to the aborigines stated vesterdav that
they had demonstrated that aboriginal children can sew,
sketch, paint, draw, and do housework and gardening
efficiently.
It is doubtless quite true, but it is hardly encour-
There are any number of unpromising
races that can be uplifted when the white man
takes them earnestly in hand—that is to say, they
can be uplifted to a certain point. They will
stay up, too, while the white man keeps holding
them up. And when the white man lets go they
will come down again. The missionary, as a
Professional or Stipendiary Lifter, approves of the
business, but to many other people it looks a
dubious speculation. The race that is capable of
evolving a civilisation of its own can assimilate and
retain another civilisation, but the one which has
no civilisation of its own requires to be held up
all the time. It is like teaching a monkey to be
a bricklayer or something like that. He makes a
very second-rate bricklayer ; he requires a man
to watch him else he won’t bricklay ; and he
doesn’t pass the art and the trowel on
to his descendants. The business is in-
teresting but not profitable. Possibly if 4.000,000
teachers were put on the job, all the futile races of
the world might be taught “ to sew, sketch, paint,
draw, and do housework and gardening efficiently.”
And if the 4,000,000 were kept on the job they
might prevent our colored brethren and sistern
dropping away from these accomplishments. But
it is a big task and it isn’t even pretended that the
sale of aboriginal masterpieces to the National
Gallery will cover any large section of the bill.
HIS REQUIREMENTS.
OLD FELLOW: “ Well! What y’ want?”
YOUNG F ELLOW: “ Want to get a snapshot of
you.”
“Eddyson”: I
have it from the de-
tective. “You may
remember,” said he,
“ the case of Mrs.
Smit’s capture of a
bad burglar. Smit
wasn’t the name,
and the yarn’s a few
months old now; but
it excited a lot of
interest at the time.
Mrs. Smit stumbled
on the housebreaker
in the dark, and, in-
stead of plumping
into hysterics, or
putting up prayers
for those in perilous
places, she waded
into the crook, and
gave him such a
lambasting that he
was fit for nothing
but the casualty
ward when she’d
done with him. So
he came easy to
Constable Mullark-
ey when that effi-
cient cop looked
in to ascertain if the
report was true that
a mad automobile
had got to work in
Sm it’s premises.
Mrs. Smit Was the
heroine of the hour
when the story got
abroad. The papers
printed her photo-
graph, and the So-
ciety of the Grey
Mare presented her
with something or
other—l disremem-
ber what—suitably
inscribed. Well, after all was over and the
poor, stricken housebreaker was tucked away
at Pentridge, Mr. Sinit. husband of the heroine,
button-hooked me. ‘Strictly private, Ned,’
said he, ‘and exclusively between You, tTs
and Cos., there was nobody more surprised than
my old girl when she found that that bloke was a
burglar. The fact is she thought it was me.’ ”
The crippled steamer Papanui, which de-
fied the Melbourne Harbor Trust, and staggered
out of Port Phillip at the beginning of December
with a specially-imported Filipino crew, was re-
ported last week at Nagasaki, in Monkeyland.
The owners of the bashed vessel are now pro-
bably hooting at the Trust, and saying that it
doesn’t know a seaworthy tank when it sees one.
All the same, the fact that the Papanui managed
to keep afloat and moving for 29 days merely indi-
cates that Davy Jones didn’t want her—his club
locker being full for the moment.
* * * *
“ Horatio B.” : The orchardist and I were
watching the long smoky cloud of dust raised by
an approaching motor that was making the most
of the flat two miles of road. “They’re goin’
pretty fast, that crowd,” said the fruit-grower.
The dust-raiser raced towards us with an angry
whir and flashed past in a whirling fog of dry
filth. A warning voice came out of
the murk: “Always wash your
fruit before you eat it. Look how
that muck settles on the trees.” I
watched the grey mist of road-
sweepings drifting thickly through
the orchard, and the warning stuck
in my memory. A day or so later
I picked up the morning paper and
read that a shover had been trium-
phantly fined 55., with 6s. costs, for
allowing his chariot to blow off too
much smoke. Now the blue vapor
from the engine is vile and sicken-
ing; but the wheel-dust is stifling
and deadly. Yet no motorist has
yet been fined for throwing up two
miles of unnecessary deadliness. I
suppose the will just
continue to rise till someone invents
an attachment, with a stomach like
a sea-serpent and a breath like a
fire engine, that will lean over the
back and suck in the dust raised by
the wheels and underbody; or per-
haps the world will cease to sneeze
when a genius devises a verandah-
iike attachment—called the Silent
Grief —that will weep steadily be-
fore the whirling front wheels. It’s
no good telling the motorist to go at
a sane rate, and fining him if he
doesn’t; he can’t go at a sane rate,
because he’s got the speed-disease in his bones
and must continue to hurry till he collides with
Death.
* * * #
The recent earthquake scare amongst the
Rotorua Maoris at the rising and falling of the
waters of Lake Rotoiti, which is adjacent toTara-
wera, the destroyer of the Pink Terraces in 1886,
seems reasonable enough. The seismographs
have been scribbling busily of late; following a
shock, a lake in Turkestan is reported to have
overflowed and spilt itself over the countryside;
and, to come nearer home, early last Friday morn-
ing, part of Melbourne shivered so violently in
its sleep that a crowd of people fled into the
streets just as they were—which isn’t the way
Judkins says he would have them. The Mel-
bourne seismoliar has nothing to say about the
Melbourne shake; but, whatever the cause was,
there seems to have been a very distinct tremor.
These continually-recurring fits of earth-ague
hoist the gaze of the passer-by to the dolicately-
poised builders’cranes and scaffold towers which
overhang every second thoroughfare nowadays.
As long as your ’quake is a few thousand miles
off, the influence is only slight; but you can’t
always rely on a ’quake keeping its distance.
A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION, begotten of sedentary
habits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver and oiher
organs. The best remedy for this undesirable state of
affairs is to stimulate the activity of the whole bodily
economy by taking a wineglassful of “ Hun yam Janos”
natural aperient water every morning.*
EXCLUDED!
THE HUMORIST: “ Bai Jove! How're you gells
goin' to jump on a chair to escape a mouse
in a skirt like that! ”
THE LADY: “ Oh , there's no need to in a skirt
like this.”
A middle-aged countryman, bearing that
Wand of Respectability, an umbrella, dropped in
front of an electric car in George-street, Sydney,
last week, and as there wasn’t an efficient shield
to throw him off the trabk, the moving
tram went over him. The crowd surged
forward to see the mangled remains, but
the only fatal injuries were to his um-
brella; and as soon as he sighted a
policeman approaching with an open
note-book he ambled off and escaped
publicity. A Milson’s Point tram-driver
tells how, having skated over an inat-
tentive sheep dog, he got slowly down to
remove the debris. After some discus-
sion, the flooring of the leading car was
taken up and the dog was found intact,
but jammed between the two motors.
They pulled him out from the machinery,
and, after scratching himself violently,
he cantered gaily away across a vacant
allotment. It was one of those casual
miracles that happen to dogs—and men
with umbrellas. The Sydney cars are so
high and open that one might run over an
elephant without hurting him; at the
same time, an obstruction a good deal
smaller than an elephant might get
considerably hurt. It is about time the
tramway people designed a shield that
will scoop the fallen and the slow off
the track, and either carry them along
on a sort of dusty sofa or roll them
aside. The public is not familiar with
the undergear of electric street cars, and
cannot always be relied on to lodge in
a safe place. In any case, it is a hurried
business calculated to rattle the coolest
of us. It is even doubtful if a text-book,
entitled “ How to be Run Over,” would
be of much use.
As if the scarcity of water at Yassberra
wasn't bad enough, the teetotal push is trying
hard to add complete absence of beer. If it suc-
ceeds ’Berra’s cup of misery may be full enough ;
but all the rest of its cups, likewise its jug, glass,
saucer, demijohn and keg, will be empty and
bone-dry.
* * * *
“Not at all”: “10-2-4” (B. 5/1/11)
remarks on the recent silence of the wowsers, in
the face of much gory and ill-regulated stoush. I
wish “10-2-4” would ring off. Hasn’t he ever
heard of the good advice, “Let sleeping bow-
wowsers lie ” ? For the sake of Liberty, rejoice if
you like ; but don’t mention the glad fact that
they are lying asleep. For better that than lying
awake.
* * * *
The demolition of L. L. Smith’s ancient
domicile in Coilins-street, Melbourne, was com-
pleted last week, and the place where the mer-
curial L. L. could be consulted by letter will soon
be included in the Oriental Hotel premises.
Smith’s house, with the fountains in the fruit gar-
den, was an ornate relic of early Melbourne.
An interesting Chow appeared as a witness
in a Melbourne suburban court the other day.
The case was one of assault and battery on the
part of a European whose laundried goods were
NO MIXED BATHING .
MRS. B AGGLY: “ Are you not going in for a dip ,
Canon?”
THEW C ANON: “ Well, I was; but the wife intends
coming down.”
withheld pending back payments. Kit Wee, as
soon as he appeared in the box, broke into profane
observations. He was sternly admonished from
the Bench, but within a few minutes was busy
again with names and institutions revered by the
Occident. Once more the Bench reproved him.
“You must not speak of the Almighty and the
Saviour with such shocking freedom ! ” adjured
the magistrate. Kit Wee smiled. “Oh, that all
li,” he said. “Me Clistian too.”
If you want something really good in the way
of r izors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
A HOT DAY YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The night was cloudy,” he said. “ The temperature
of the sea was down to 3‘ideg. when the iceberg came into
view. When the moon appeared the sight was one never to
he forgotten. VVe gazed upon what seemed to be a float-
ing city of ice as large as Liverpool, with its towers, its
temples, its tapering monuments shooting up in fantastic
architecture, shimmering in the moonlight like polished
silver.”
A most oppressive heat prevailed in the city to-day.
At noon, the maximum of 9‘A4deg. was reached.
—Eveiling paper clippings.
I’d like to sit on an icy shore and look at the cold, green
seas
That, endlessly roll to the far South Pole at thirty-three
degrees ;
And every minute or so I’d cough, or else enjoy a sneeze.
I’d like to sit on an icy shore and laugh at the barking
seals,
With the tall ice cliffs behind my back and the sea be-
neath my heels;
While the roar and crash of the toppling peaks rang out
like thunder peals.
I’d love to think as the bleak wind blew and the clouds
flew overhead,
And sunrays flashed on my silver isle, of a warm and cosy
bed ;
But I’d stay on till my feet were cold and my nose ex-
ceeding red.
And when I wanted a drink I’d hold a bit of my city’s
soil
In a pannikin o’er a spirit-lamp until I made it boil ;
Then I’d drop in sugar and lemon and a drop of fusel oil.
I’d sit and sing on the moonlit ice to a chatt’ring Dago’s
harp;
My voice is rotten—but what of that? There’d be no
critic to carp !
But if one came 1 would yell, “Jump off! This show is
my own ! Lock sharp ! ”
“Man wants but little here below'.” For some people
that may suffice ;
A stale bath-bun and a cup of tea to a curate is “ quite
nice ”;
But my only bribe is a silver isle—a mountain range of
ice!
I glumly sit in the city baked on a hot and clammy
chair,
And gaze across the tramway line to a fourpenny feeding
lair.
I would l were on an iceberg tall with a well-upholstered
bear!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


“WILBERFORCE” Sluicing Pumps For Sale.
1 Ejector and Cock complete.
1 11in. Giant Nozzle.
1 lOin Gravel Pump. 1 10in. Swivel Gland and Bend.
1 I2in. Water Pump. 1 llin. Delivery Flap Valve and Bend.
N B —These Pumps were selected by Experts and they are perfectly new, and can be inspected in our
ssvyWv Stores Will sell 20 per cent, below cost, owing: to a Sluicing: Company, for whom they were
fnrended troiiiir into liquidation. If required, we can offer 2 “Robey” Portable Steam Engines to
intended, going ln^° r “ q t " e u above Pumps ; viz.,25 Nominal H.P. and 30 Nominal H,P.
Appiy-ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER g CO., Circular Quay, Sydney; 54 Queen St„ Melboorne
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
IT “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE."
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Soie Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The State Treasurers, without exception, wound
up an extraordinarily prosperous half-year on Decem-
ber 31. In every case there was a big increase of
revenue :
State Revenues for Six Months, Junk-Deoember.
1909. 1910.
N. S. Wales .. £6,840,590 £7,657,909 Inc. £817,319
Victoria.. .. 3,891,801 4,741,350 Inc. 849,549
Queensland .. 2,481,286 2,833,717 Inc. 352,431
S. Australia .. 1,651,758 2,010,640 Inc. 358,882
Westralia .. 1,672,379 1,915,978 Inc. 343,599
Tasmania .. 434,412 562,654 Inc. 128,242
Things may not, however, wear such a look of tremendous
affluence from this onward. December 31 saw the last of
what used to be called the Braddon 810t —the provision
for the return to the States of three-fourths of the net
Customs and Excise revenue. That provision has pinched
the Commonwealth lately, and the Treasurer had to go
to uncle before he could make the payments for the past
half-year. For the future the refunds will be on the 255.
per head basis; and, though the Commonwealth never
should have tied itself down to that, the change will
allow it to do a few things for which it hitherto couldn’t
raise the wind.
The booming railway revenue is mainly respon-
sible for the big increases shown above. Here are the six
months’ railway figures for the four big States :
1909. 1910.
N. S. Wales .. £2,727,358 £3,135,520 Inc. £408,162
Victoria .. 2,056,442 2,271,816 Inc. 215,374
Queensland .. 1,180,014 1,406,729 Inc. 226,715
S. Australia .. 853,586 995,542 Inc. 141,956
It isn’t all net gain, of course. There has been a very
large recent outlay on new works ; and both the interest
and running charges have gone up in consequence.
Yet the whole position, so far as the revenue
account is concerned, is most satisfactory. It is no use
comparing the total income with what it was 10 years
ago, because 10 years ago postal revenue and the full
Customs revenue were included with the States’ figures.
Going back nine years, we get this comparison:—
Increase
1901. 1910. per cent.
N. S. Wales,. £5,713,000 £7,657,909 34’4
Victoria .. 3,943,076 4,741,350 20'2
Queensland.. 2,311,329 2,833,717 22‘6
S. Australia.. 1,269,000 2,010,640 58’4
Westralia .. 1,718,168 1,915,978 11*5
Tasmania .. 954,483* 562,654
* Twelve months.
Yet, in spite of those astounding figures, there isn’t a
State that hasn’t lately made up its mind that it must
lean up against the pawnshop with renewed energy.
Commercial concerns which had accumulated debts have
been wiping them off and extending their business out of
the often-amazing profits of the past six or seven years.
Only the State Governments have paid off nothing. And
not only have they paid off nothing ; they now proceed
to get deeper into the wallow than ever.
These are the only figures available relating to
expenditure on Revenue Account: —
Expenditure for Six Months.
1909. 1910.
N. S. Wales .. £6,536,384 £6,926,058 Inc. £389,674
Queensland .. 2,368,614 2,378,656 Inc. 10,042
Westralia .. 1,570,896 1,666,908 Inc. 96,012
Only N. S. Wales and Queensland say how much of
Cohen’s money is being consumed :
1909. 1910.
N. S. Wales .. £2,042,176 £2,276,340 Inc. £234,164
Queensland .. 755,784 894,655 Inc. 138,871
Thus N. S. Wales has been going into pawn to the extent
of over 4$ millions and Queensland to the extent of over
If millions a year. That sort of thing will have to stop
some time, and when it does stop thousands of men, who
have been drawn from other industries, will be thrown
out of work. Nobody alleges that the country shouldn’t
be developed. But the State Governments devolop it in
spasms, with the result that they feed booms and con-
tribute to slumps, and both things are disasters. And
instead of sitting down hard on the mad system, the
papers fan the flame by printing and reprinting tables to
show that the money hitherto borrowed is returning 4 or
sor 6 per cent. They don’t point out that the works are
giving that return because they are being fed by a boom
arising out of the scattering of millions more borrowed
money. If a man borrowed £lOOO and put it into a pub,
and then borrowed £lOOO more and used it in buying
himself drinks from his own stock, he would be able to
show a tremendous return on the first £lOOO, even if he
djdn’t have a single other customer. And that’s just
about what is happening in connection with Australian
loan expenditure.
* * * *
The Victorian State Land Bank
Loss by
Discount Carried
on Loans Written to Re-
June, Loss. Floated. Off. serves. Deficit.
1897 .. £1,462 £1,462
Profit. Reserves.
1898 .. 1,608 £l6OB 146
1899 .. 5,551 5551 5,697
1900 .. 6,846 ■ 6846 12,543
1901 .. 8,150 £2931 5219 17,762
1902 .. 9,090 4414 4676 22,438
1903 8,047 1385 £2OOO 4662 27,100
1904 . 10,280 5374 2000 2906 30,006
1905 .. 9,560 8241 1319 31,325
1906 .. 10,048 2417 7631 38,956
1907 .. 9,503 1834 7669 46,625
1908 .. 9,849 1417 8432 55,057
1909 .. 10,177 8856 1321 56,378
1910 .. 9,668 7970 1698 58,076
These belated figures and remarks refer to the Advances
Department of the Savings Bank of Victoria, an excel-
lently-managed State concern now. in its 15th year.
Originally the bank raised the money to help the farmer
by issuing £25 bonds, repayable as the loans were
repaid. Later on it was authorised to issue £lOO
debentures repayable at fixed dates. In 1901 some
money was got at 3 per cent.; since then all the
debentures issued have carried 3$ per cent., and have
been issued at from 99$ to 95$—at a discount, that is, of
from sto 4$ per cent. These discounts to June 30 last
totalled £44,838. In the published balance-sheets they
appear as a diminishing asset; so far £21,001 has been
written off, leaving £23,837. As this amount is not
represented by anything that is visible except to the eye
of faith, it has not been treated as an asset in the table
at the head of these remarks. The position is, there-
fore, as follows : .
Reserves as per accounts £81,913
Less invisible “ assets ” .. .. .. 23,837
True reserves £58,076
In one respect, certainly, the bank benefits by these dis-
counts ; for theoretically, at any rate, the bigger the dis-
count the smaller the interest charge throughout the
loan period. Of the total liabilities of the Advances
Department, £691,250 is to the credit of the public, and
£963 575 has been lent by the Savings Bank itself.
The mortgages outstanding, with the expenses
per cent., are shown next: —
Expenses in
Mortgages Proportion to
Out- Working Mortgages.
June, standing. Expenses. s. d.
1899 .. £758,983 £4465 11 9 percent.
1900 .. 895,913 5813 12 11
1901 .. 1,021,240 6537 12 9 „
1902 .. 1,144,826 7155 12 6
1903 .. 1,267,207 8022 12 8 „
1904 .. 1,337,817 8272 12 4 „
1905 .. 1,369,673 9080 13 3
1906 .. 1,350,623 8692 12 11 „
1907 .. 1,251,051 8506 13 7 „
1908 .. 1,225,431 7866 12 10
1909 .. 1,312,204 8187 12 6 „
1910 .. 1,323,811 8745 13 2
The bank thus pays 3$ per cent, for its money ; and it
gets from the farmers 4$ per cent. Total expenses
are £3 10s. plus 13s. 2d., or £4 3s. 2d. ; and the
difference between that and £4 10s., or 6s. 10d., is the
profit out of which the discount on loans and the reserve
fund against probable bad debts have to be provided.
Mostly this margin, although not large, has been con-
sidered enough ; fora brief space, however, it was judged
necessary to charge 4f per cent. (That was round
about i 904, when the Department’s 3$ per cent,
loans, with a 10-year currency, only brought 955;
which meant that, whereas the Department only
got £95 10s., it contracted in 10 years to repay
£loo—a difference which had to be made up by
the borrower in the shape of extra interest.) The
expenses shown above include valuation fees, which have
been rather heavier than usual. Compared with what
they might be if the advances were three times as great,
the expenses are, no doubt, high. In Maoriland they
are more than $ per cent, lower ; and Victorian farmers
could have the benefit of that $ per cent, if the
borrowers from the State Bank were three times
as numerous—which they might easily be if farmers
were three times as numerous. In connection with
some Australian State Agricultural Banks the fear-
ful network of red-tape on the premises fully accounts
for the small progress made. No such explanation holds
good here. The Victorian bank has its rules and regula-
tions, of course ; but its management is comparatively
free, and there is no more red-tape about it than there is
about the average private bank. Very likely because it
proceeds not by rule of thumb, but mostly according to
its judgment, the bank has hitherto made hardly any
bad debts worth mentioning, and there is only one small
foreclosed property in hand. Not that they should be
numerous in any case at such times as the present; yet
the hobbled Queensland Agricultural Bank—the poorest
in Australia and the least worthy of the name—contrives
to show a good many foreclosures even in these times.
* * * *
The Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd.
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1900 .. £53,572 £19,760 £25,409 £8,403 £236,627
1901 .. 61,872 19,909 24,725 17,238 253,865
1902 .. 73,782 18,640 24,559 30,583 284,448
1903 .. 73,983 19,585 28,263 26,135 310,583
1904 .. 79,779 18,302 29,285 32,192 342,775
1905 .. 89,738 18,894 36,071 34,773 377,548
1906 .. 98,666 21,026 38,925 38,715 416,263
1907 .. 108,447 21,451 39,616 47,380 463,643
1908 .. 130,384 29,470 44,751 56,163 519,806
1909 .. 160,946 44,733 49,412 66,801 586,607
1910 .. 177,578 40,810 53,658 83,110 669,717
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1900 .. £29,104 £19,839 £7,461 £1,804 £19,276
1901 .. 40,198 26,938 7,724 5,536 24,812
1902 .. 53,597 35,444 8,294 9,859 34,671
1903 .. 69,547 46,230 8,925 14,392 49,063
1904 .. 82,742 48,595 13,365 20,782 69,845
1905 .. 103,499 54,761 14,213 34,525 104,370
1906 .. 118,433 58,833 16,444 43,156 147,526
1907 .. 124,703 52,289 16,129 56,285 203,811
1908 .. 134,723 64,402 22,320 48,001 251,812
1909 .. 145,757 64,954 34,189 46,614 298,426
1910 .. 155,333 59,359 40,129 55,845 354,271
Accident Branch.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1907 .. £2477 £1092 £1177 £2OB £2OB
1908 .. 3345 1785 1474 86 294
Taken from
Funds.
1909 .. 3849 2311 1542 4 290
Added to
Funds.
1910 .. 4218 2814 1310 94 384
This is now one of the energetic life offices of Australia.
For many years it had made scarcely any progress. It
stressed Cold Tea principles ; and apparently Cold Tea
didn’t bubble in response. Early in the past decade the
office seems to have decided to shake itself up ; and there
was no doubt about the shaking. Twenty years hence it
may look back and wonder how it came to take the risks.
For a start, however, the management seems to have de-
cided that it must do two things—dress its windows
elaborately and keep a bargain-counter going all the
time. Naturally men outside the office shake their heads.
In fact, there have been actuaries who have said that
“ something ought to be done.” But there are difficulties
in the way. An insurance concern is different from
almost any other. A depositor with a bank puts his
money up for, say, two years. If the money is
not forthcoming then, he knows things have gone
wrong. But a man may look forward to making insur-
ance payments for 30 years before he claims a penny.
Nobody knows exactly what will happen in those 30
years ; therefore, when one actuary says, “ I will give so
much,” and another says, “ You can’t do it without
going broke,” the first is bound to answer, “How do you
know?” It boils down then to a matter of opinion.
Certainly there is the actuarial investigation, and that is
supposed to be some test. But, in Australia, it really doesn’t
amount to much, because the actuary may take what
basis he pleases. He may assume that he is going to
earn 4 per cent, in the future, whereas he will probably
earn less than 3f per cent, net in the years to come. Or he
may play other tricks of the trade which will enable him
to show that his office has accumulated more funds than
it really had any need for. That surplus, of course,
means bonuses; and bonuses are about the best
bait an office can use. The public compares what
it gets from one office with what it can get from
some other office. What it doesn’t realise is that, simply
by adopting different bases of calculation, one office may
nominally pay a 2 per cent, bonus out of funds which
another officewouldn’t consider strong enough to justify
1 per cent. Much depends, therefore, on the basis of
calculation. Five years ago, when the Temperance and
General had its last previous investigation, various com-
plaints were made about the principles adopted.
It was believed that, not being stringent enough,
they put the position in too favorable a light. The
management seems now to admit it by making some
changes ; and there is room for considerable improve-
ment yet. The more stringent the basis adopted, the
less glorious the present position appears, of course: On
the other hand, the more stringent the basis, a surer
foundation is laid for the future, though the present
doesn’t glitter so magnificently. And as it is the future that
matters most so far as a life office is concerned, the
changes the T. and G. have made are in the right direc-
tion. The thing to be desired now is that it will keep on
moving that way.
Partly because of the large stock of energy
which the T. and G. keeps on the premises, and partly
because it offers some things which other offices evidently
won’t-risk offering, the increase of business in the past
few years has been very marked. Compare the funds
now and 10 years ago :
1900. 1910.
Ordinary Branch .. £236,627 £669,717
Industrial Branch .. 19,276 354,271
The Industrial business has been pushed hardest; and no
doubt it has been used largely and very properly as a
feeder of the Ordinary branch. The office takes no high-
and-mighty stand with regard to the latter. It doesn’t
turn up its nose at even a £lOO policy. In fact, the
average size of the Ordinary policy last year was only
£95. Considering the work that these small policies
involve, the expense rate is remarkably modest. This
shows the rate in each branch :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial. Accident.
1900.. £36 17 8 p.c. £6B 3 4 p.c. --
1901.. 32 3 7 „ 67 0 3 „
1002.. 25 5 3 „ 66 2 7 „
1903:. 26 9 5 „ 66 9 5 , „
1904.. 22 18 10 „ 58 14 7 „
1905.. 21 1 1 „ 52 18 2 ~
1906.. 21 6 3 „ 49 13 7 ~
1907.. 19 15 7 ~ 4l 18 7 ~ £44 1 8 p.c.
1908.. 22 12 0 „ 47 16 1 ~ 53 7 3 „
1009. 27 15 9 „ 44 11 3 ~ 58 10 5 „
1910.. 22 19 7 ~ 38 4 4 „ 66 14 3 „
Always assuming that the office can do what it under-
takes* to do, and isn’t attracting business by promising
more than it can perforin, these are remarkably fine
figures. A 38 per cent, expense rate in the Industrial
branch turns the edge of most of the cutting criticism to
which that class of business has hitherto been subject.
The interest earnings are shown next: —
1903 .. £4 8 8 per cent. I 1907 ~ £4 9 2 per cent.
1904 ..4 9 1 ~ 1908 ..4 9 7 „
1905 .. 410 6 „ | 1909 .. 410 3 „
1906 ..4 9 1 ~ |l9lO .. 410 6 „
Of the total assets 46 per cent, is in Government and
municipal securities, which is satisfactory, though it
would be more satisfactory still if Government and muni-
cipal securities weren’t thrown into one heap in that
fashion. No Australian Government has defaulted,
whereas more than one Australian municipality has had
the bailiff in.
The quinquennial valuation of the Ordinary
branch discloses a surplus of £33,575 ; this is exclusive of
interim bonuses and “ bonuses granted in terms of poli-
cies.” This last doesn’t read well; it looks as though
there are some preferential policy-holders—policy-holders
to whom the society has pledged itself to pay bonuses.
The Industrial branch shows a surplus of £2727 ; and,
though “ interim bonuses as in the past ” are mentioned
the sum is so small that it had far better be left where it
is in case of accident. In fact, the surplus is so small
that one can’t help wondering what would have happened
if there hadn’t been such a solid reduction in the expense
rate during the past two or three years.
* * * *
The Christchurch Meat Co., one of the big
meat-freezing concerns of Maoriland
Wrjt-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1905.. • £9,618
1906.. £57,657 8 p.c. =£12,938 £44,719 54,337
1907.. 53,811 8 ~ „ 13,005 £17,500 23,306 77,643
1908.. 37,075 8 „ „ 13,203 19,024 4,848 82,491
1909.. 50,622 8 „ „ 13,433 22,265 14,924 97,415
1910.. 75,719 10 „ „ 16,915 23,560 35,244 132,659
This co. has a paid share capital of £173,186. At the end of
its previous year it had also a 5 per cent, debenture debt
of £154,000 ; the total liabilities at that time, including
this debenture debt, were £187,328. During the past
year the whole of the debentures have been redeemed,
and the total liabilities on October 31 stood at £81,619.
This reduction of £105,709 has been secured partly by
applying current profit to the job, partly by drawing on
liquid assets, and partly, it seems, by the sale of pro-
perty. The liquid assets (including book debts) in 1909
were £64,243 ; 12 months later they were £29,099. The
property items have been reduced from £354,103 to
£297,723. Yet, though the debentures have thus
only been wiped out by realising on some of the
assets, the co. shows a much improved position. That
of course is mainly due to the splendid profits of the past
five years, coupled with the very moderate dividend.
Certainly, in considering the profits as set out above,
account must also be taken of the large amount of that
profit which has been written off. No less than
£45,825 has been set aside out of the profits of
the past two years to pay for renewals and replace-
ments of plant and buildings—a figure which
seems to imply that either the writing down
in past times was inadequate, or that the old plant and
buildings have been replaced by something of much
greater value. Anyway, this is the fact that really
counts—in the past five years profits have aggregated
£274,884, while the total that has gone out of the busi-
ness in the shape of dividends is £69,494. The other
£205,390 has been available for the purposes of the co. —to
renew or extend the plant and to pay off the old debt. For
five years’ work this is an amazingly fine result, especially
when it is remembered that the capital is, as remarked
before, only £173,186. There are bound to be big ups
and downs in the business. Companies of this kind
deal very largely in surpluses for export—they
have, as it were, only a second mortgage on
the trade. The local consumer and the people who
supply the local consumer have the first mortgage.
In the past year prices have been good and the supply
has been very good. Hence the boom profit. Looking to
the future, the co. aims at making its results more regu-
lar (with an upward tendency, of, course) by cultivating
the side-lines—manure-manufacturing and so on. Alto-
gether, with the balance-sheet wiped up so clean, with
the heavy debt lifted, and with the new departments
better equipped, the outlook for the co. ; is very cheerful
indeed.
* * * *
The Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance
Co.
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1899.. 46,649 7$ p.c. = 39,000 7,649 311,298
1900.. 61,586 7$ „ ~39,000. 22,586 333,884
1901.. 39,616 7$ „ ~39,000 616 334,500
Loss.
1902.. 78,963 Nil 255,537
June, Profit.
1903.. 588 Nil 588 256,125
1904.-12,135 2$ p.c. = 13,000 255,260
1905.. 53,259 6 „ ~31,200 20,943 1,116 256,376
1906.. 100,354 7$ „ ~ 39,000 12,394 48,960 305,336
1907.. 157.490 12$ „ ~65,000 23,000 69,490 374,826
1908. .102,933 12$ „ ~ 65,000 6,680 31,253 406,079
1909.. 51,631 12$ „ ~66,000 7,012 385,698
1910.. 78,177 12$ „ ~65,000 8,304 4,873 390,571
This co., which is now 47 years old, consists almost en-
tirely of J. Bull, the gentleman who has put so much
capital into the country and is always threatening to
take it out when we ask him for tuppence towards
(say) the defence of that capital. For very many
years this particular little bit of J. Bull did a good deal
better than the table above suggests. Down to 1891 he
was getting his capital back every five years—2o per cent,
divs. were the rule. Then it wasn’t a Socialistic tiger
that bit him ; it was an anti-Socialistic rabbit and other
things. As a matter of fact, J. Bull had been too greedy.
Thirsting for big divs., he lent far too much money
to western N. S. Wales squatters; and in order
to pay the interest the latter overstocked. Then
came the rabbits ; and between the rabbits and the over-
stocking, the drought of the early '9o’s was far more
disastrous than it otherwise would have been. In dozens
of cases the mortgagor went out and this mortgage co.
stepped in. It took some years to get over that shock ;
and when things were pretty good again the drought of
1902-3 happened. The recovery from that clout has,
however, been very rapid; hence dividends have
sprinted along from nil to 12$ per cent. Still, the co.
doesn’t show the extraordinary profits it disclosed two or
three years ago, and in 1907 especially. The latter year
showed about 30 per cent, on capital; but that, no doubt,
was largely the result of sales at prices in excess of book
values.
The co. does not show its properties and its
advances separately; therefore, it isn’t possible to say
how much property the co. has got rid of. It is pretty
certain, though, that it has grabbed the chance to let
somebody else hold many of its properties, while it has-
used the proceeds to finance other people, which is more
strictly its business. Even the lumped item—properties
and advances—has been on the down-grade. It may be
that the co.’s clients haven’t wanted as much accommo-
dation in these flush times ; it may be that the co. reck-
oned the recent level of prices too high, and has, there-
fore, preferred to put its money into something which
mightn’t give as much profit, but certainly wasn’t likely
to cause so much loss of sleep. Anyhow, these figures
show a large increase of liquid assets :
1901. 1909. 1910.
Cash, public stocks, etc.,
less sundry creditors .. £48,095 £392,125 £599,539
Advances and properties 2,363,214 2,261,239 2,076,111
Sundry debtors and pre-
mises 469,355 291,334 273,921
In nine years over £550,000 has thus been passed to cash,
bank deposits, and public stocks. The shareholders are
naturally enough a bit careful. In the first place, they
owe £2,000,000 on debentures (mostly at 4 per cent.);
and interest on that has to be paid no matter what
sort of a season it is. Also 20s. in the £of principal
has to be repaid no matter what losses are made ; and if
the assets won’t do it, then the shareholders must be
bled. Now, the co.’s shares are of £25 each ; but only £5
has been called up on 80,000 of them and only £3 on the
other 40,000, and a liability of £22 per share is enough to
cause some profound thinking.
* * * •
“R.” describes a big Tasmanian proposition and
does his little bit of special pleading en route: —“ A
recent Bulletin mentions among the syndicates that
have ‘ made a successful grab at Tasmania’s natural
assets,’ the Complex Ore Co., with its concession of the
waters of the Great Lake. The article says that
‘ the biggest concession of the lot is the mono-
poly of the Great Lake waters secured by the Com-
plex Ore Co. ; and when the prospectus is issued
the public will be able to see what the concession-
grabbers think is the value of rights which the State has
given them.’ ... It is a great asset; but it isn’t given
away. From its generating station the co. can easily tap
Zeehan, Mount Lyell,. Gormanston, Devonport, Latrobe,
Launceston, Deloraine, Hobart, Parattah, and near to
Scotsdale ; it is practically in touch with nearly all the
horse-power users in the island. It has 21 years’ life,
and the Government may then renew the concession for
a further 21 years, or take over the works at cost, plus 20
per cent., and minus depreciation. The co. paj'B £52
per annum rent for the first 10 years, and thereafter
will pay for the water on the same scale as that charged
for water under the Mining Act, regulations. But the
Hydro-Electric and Metals, Ltd., hasn’t invented or dis-
covered the water. Its potentialities have been known
for years, and the Government was asked to harness it,
and wouldn’t. And what would be the value of a
Government scheme in a country where the public
opinion is so silly and so apathetic that it can’t even put
theV.D.L. 00. in its class, and make it either work or
pay? The Labor members who voted for the Great Lake
concession probably sized this up before voting ; reckon-
ing that something run by' Private Enterprise under
restrictions, and with the right of resumption, is better
than sitting down and waiting for time to kill off the
anti-Socialist obstructionists and the Tory drifters.
The Hydro-Electric and Metals will do a great work in
Tasmania while designedly and naturally working for its
own profit. Tas. iron will find an electric furnace;
Hobart, Newtown, Bellerive, Queenborough and Glen-
orehy will get cheap light, heat and power; an appreci-
able proportion of the 350,000 tons of zinc concentrates
annually exported from Australia for treatment in Wales
and Germany will be converted to metallic zinc in Tas-
mania ; calcium carbide works and paper-making works
and acid works will make within the Common-
wealth some of the commodities which now pay wages in
foreign parts. From zinc-treatment and other indus-
tries, exclusive of contracts for lighting and power
supply, the co. expects to make a profit of £225,000 a
year, less realisation and distribution charges. And it’s
better that the co. should make that than that the Great
Lake should continue to play the part of a valueless
feeder to the Pacific Ocean.”
The good old shindykit is always the same. It
is always going to be a public benefactor. The question,
however, isn’t whether it is better than nothing. The
question is whether there couldn’t be something better
than a syndicate. Also “ when the prospectus is issued
the public will see what the concession-grabbers think is
the value of the rights which the State has given them.”
The chances are that the syndicate will charge £1 for light
and power, and another £1 or so for the right which it
has got to supply that light and power ; so the new in-
dustries will be handicapped from the start. If the new
co. supplied light and power to users at a price to return
(say) 5 per cent, on the actual cost of the works,
plus an allowance for depreciation, there wouldn’t
be much call for a brick ; but this paper remem-
bers the Melbourne Tram, and the Silverton Tram,
and the Broken Hill Water Supply, and a few
other benefactors; and it isn’t swallowing any more
syndicates to supply light and power and water until the
State is quite dead and incapable of supplying these things
itself. The mere fact that it is sleeping isn’t enough ;
the right thing in that case is to wake it.
* * * *
This shows the progress Industrial insurance
is making in Great Britain :—•
Policies. Amount. Average.
1890 .. 9,412,991 £85,920,639 £9 2 7
1900 .. 17,857,134 172,649,457 913 3
1910 .. 28,541,525 285,807,599 10 0 2
It is costly insurance, and the insurer gets little for his
money compared with the results in Ordinary insurance.
But, though the results often make the onlooker sad, he
has to admit that the fourpence-a-fortnight busi-
ness can’t possibly be cheap, and that, as far
as many of the Industrial customers are concerned, it is
either a half-eaten loaf or nothing. Its other redeeming
virtue is that it trains customers for the Ordinary
branch; though in that respect it is probably more
valuable among comparatively well-paid Australians
than among the poorly-paid working people of England,
who can’t get past a fourpence-a-fortnight premium even
if they wanted to.
* * e *
The Australian Pure Food and Meat Supplies,
Ltd., is being formed in Sydney to take over four small-
goods manufacturing businesses, extend them, and add a
meat-packing department. It is proposed to issue 30,000
shares ; of these the public is offered 15,487, and the other
14,513 go to the vendors, who also take £3354 in cash. The
total purchase consideration is thus£l7,B67, of which £5600
is represented by substantial assets and £12,267 by good-
will. Thomas Davis and 00. are the well-known and
reputable accountants on whose certificate the public is
invited in. They say that, after making allowances for
depreciation, “ the net profit on the amalgamation of the
businesses now carried on may be stated at £4472 per
annum,” exclusive of whatever may be made out of the
new meat-packing business. This would mean very
nearly 15 per cent. The proportion of the purchase
money represented by goodwill is heavy ; and the amount
ought to be rapidly reduced out of profits (which, of
course, means temporarily at the expense of dividends).
On the other hand, the businesses have certainly been
profitable, and amalgamation ought to make them still
more profitable ; also, the consumption of small goods and
cooked meat foods will probably go on increasing—one
result of the domestic-servant problem.
* * * *
Mount Morgan’s recent record :
May, Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
1907.. £934,432 £571,619 £362,813
1908.. 911,723 648,360 263,363
1909.. 901,838 673,622 228,216
1910.. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov.,
1910.. 484,755 408,450 76,305
Out of this one Is. dividend (£50,000) was paid, and
£24,707 is written off plant and machinery. The results for
the half-year look comparatively poor ; but the}' are rather
better than they look. There is an increase in the value
of stocks amounting to £57,777 ; and apparently stocks
are not shown as an asset in the balance-sheet. In the
orevious six months £23,287 was paid for coal and coke ;
in the past six months, £53,439. These purchases are
charged direct to profit and loss, and riot to Capital. No
doubt in the previous half-year the stocks were drawn
upon ; hence (with a qualification presently to be noted),
the true profit in that term was less than that shown in


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
Specially constituted by Act of
Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Trust Funds to lend on Farm
and Station Properties at
from 4 per cent.
Write or call for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager ,
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building;, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[3
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting 1 Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
the accounts. On the other hand, if £57,777 was added
to stocks during the past half-year—in other w-ords, if
that much more was bought than was used that amount
must be added to the £76,305 in order to arrive at the
true gross profit. To arrive at the true net profit, depre-
ciation must be deducted from that total. One other
point has to be considered. As at May, 1910, the blister
copper on hand was valued at £399,190 ; and “ all copper
unsold on May 31 has' been valued at £5O per ton.”
The average gross price obtained for the metal
during the past half-year was £5B 10s. 9d. Now',
the copper in hand on November 30 was valued at
£255 Oil, and that metal was valued at the same £5O per
ton. ’ Therefore the metal sold during the half-year was
equal to the half-year’s production plus £144,179. In that
£144,179 there would be about £53,000 worth of copper—
nearly 1000 tons ; and the surplus realised from that in
excess of the valuation in the previous half-year’s balance-
sheet would account for, say, £BOOO of the profit credited
to the past term. Thus the past term has gained to that
extent at the expense of the previous term.
However, the half-year’s figures are really not
of much importance, because the ore-reducing works have
been in a state of transition. This matter has already
been paragraphed several times. Until the beginning of
the past half-year the co. was using a barren ironstone
for fluxing. Then the Many Peaks supply was drawn
upon ; and this flux, instead of being barren, carries from
2} to 2} per cent, copper(l per cent, copper = 10s. 6d. Of
course, the co. doesn’t get this ore for nothing. Many
Peaks belongs to a small co. which collects 2s. 6d. per ton
royalty. It is no deep secret that some of the Mount
Morgan men are interested in Many Peaks ; and that has
set some people wagging their heads. There seems to be
no justification whatever for it; and when the change-
over has been completed the Mount Morgan Co. will
almost for certain make a great deal more out of the new'
flux than the Many Peaks Co. will.
* * * *
For the metals in which Broken Hill is inter-
ested, prices improved last year just enough to swear
to :
1909. 1910.
Lead £l3 2 10} .. £l3 3 9}
Zinc (spelter) .. 23 1 3 .. 23 17 7}
Silver (standard) .. 2 Of .. 2 1}
The figures are the averages for December in each year.
* ■» » *
C. G. Hylton, who had his early training at
Ballarat, gets a move up to the management of the Zinc
Corporation’s big undertaking at Broken Hill. Ever
since there has been ore-milling on the Barrier Hylton
has been a mill-man, and he had a long and praiseworthy
climb to the job of mill-manager for the Broken Hill
Prop., which he now quits.
* * * *
The North Cobar was formed with a whoop
about four years ago, among the heavily-gilded crowd
which had just previously poured money into the Com-
monwealth Oil Corporation. Some of the state-
ments made at the time were astonishing; but
the London crowd seems to possess a vast amount
of faith and patience, and the annual meetings
have been fed on hope, and there hasn’t so far been much
complaint about the menu. At the last meeting, held
early in December, the shareholders had another plateful
of the old fare, with a little new dressing. Boreholes
had been put down from the 1300 ft. level, and this cable
was read : “No. 3 borehole assays show at 36ft. to 38}ft.,
6 per cent ; 45ft. to 47ft., 4} per cent.; 54ft. to 69ft., 3'2 per
sent. ; 69ft. to 77}ft., I'9 per cent. ; 77}ft. to 80ft., I*B per
cent. ; 111 ft. to 120 ft., 3'4 per cent. ; 124 ft. to 139}ft.,
2-4 per cent. ;at 141 ft. 2'4 per cent. Borehole is down
305 ft. in lode ; have not got country slate yet; core
carries a little copper.” Patches of ore have been got in
the upper levels; and there is evidently another patch—
bigger no doubt—below the present workings. The co.
has an ore channel, coming in from the Great Cobar,
which it joins ; but an ore channel, even when it contains
a few patches of ore, doesn’t make a mine, especially
if the ore has to be drawn from 1500 ft. If it had a big
body of 6 per cent., the shareholders might well “ Hear,
hear.” But, though 6 per cent, is mentioned, note that
it only lasts for 2}ft. The co., having gone down 1300 ft.,
would, however, be throwing away what poor chances it
has by not going down, say, to 1500 ft., and probing the
patch. The shaft (it is a good working shaft) is therefore
being pushed down.
* *
Bookham (N.S.W.) has only £6OO left in the till.
But calls will be paid willingly while it can pick out stuff
that assays Boz. 13dwt. per ton (value £34 12s. 6d.), Both
the previous small consignments were worth £8 per ton,
but carting 14 miles to the railway, together with other
freight and returning charges, makes up a heavy bill of
costs. Whatever Bookham may turn out, the heavily
mineralised formation is certain to get a test; and it
deserves that much on the strength of £124 13s. from 3
tons 12cwt. of stone obtained in a few feet of driving.
There are three reefs running through the porphyry hill,
and the management intends to crosscut for the two
formations that have not been prospected, and to con-
tinue driving the 75ft. level north and south. There are
25,000 contributing shares, so a sixpennvcall will bring
in £625.
* * * *
Harden (N.S.W.) gives up prospecting at No. 5
(the bottom) level as a bad job. The east drive has been
pushed out 703 ft., “ and no ore of any importance met
with in the whole distance.” The outlook is pretty blue ;
apart from the stone that is left in the upper levels, the
only hope now is that the No. 5 impoverishment is tem-
porary, and that there are better things below. But
even that hope doesn’t burn brightly, though it would
be a mistake not to give another level a test.
* * * *
Under the old conditions, things were no doubt
hopeless with the Vegetable Creek—the Adelaide co.
which owns the N.S.W. tin-lead—but the rearrangement
is mighty rough on some holders of old prefs. The co.
was floated in Adelaide with 50,000 paid-up shares and
80,000 con. The paids got scattered in the course of
time to outsiders, who paid good money for them on the
general assumption that the calling power on the con-
tribs. was a good deal. When the 80,000 were paid up to
12s. 9d., leaving. 7s. 3d. a share still callable, a big number of
contrite; were call-unpaid. The right thing was for the
Board to declare the shares forfeited; but it’s a hard
thing to do the right thing when the right thing hurts
terribly. So the Board, instead of declaring the contribs.
forfeit and selling them at auction, decided on
reconstruction, whereby the new co. takes hold.
All shares are to rank alike, and to be issued
as paid up to 15s. on payment of Is. It is prob-
ably a fact that, if some rearrangement hadn’t
been made, especially with the freeholder, the whole
thing would have smashed, and the prefs. would have got
nothing out of the wreck ; but that doesn’t excuse the
non-forfeiture of the shares which were held by people
who wouldn’t pay calls, and it doesn’t justify letting
those people into the new co. on the same floor as the
people who paid big money for prefs. in the old co.
* * * *
The opening of the mining sharemarkets after
the holidays saw a tremendous effort to give the Bull-
finch clutch a lift. As long as the gamblers know they
are gambling, well and good. The fact that the Bullfinch
itself is getting out a few hundred tons of very
rich stone doesn’t put gold in any other mine,
any more than the fact that Mount Morgan
has taken out a few million pounds’ worth of
gold puts metal into any ground in the neigh-
borhood of the Queensland wonder. Further, the
Bullfinch figures don’t give a fair idea of what even
_ the Bullfinch itself is likely to be, because there is no
‘ doubt they are now working in a zone of secondary en-
richment, which is another way of saying that they are
cleaning out nature’s cyanide vat. The shows outside the
Bullfinch that have a “ possible ” can be counted up on the
claws of the bird—and the “ possible ” is at present no
more than a prospecting chance ranging from fair (in the
case of the Bull Ant) to middling (in the case of the
Bullrush).
* * * *
“R. 8.”: Re the “views of the mining en-
gineer” in Bulletin 5/l/’ll. The Bullfinch deposit may
be a “ boomerang-shaped lens,” but it is not yet shown
to be shaped so, and no man who has seen much of the
mine below would hazard the opinion, because Nos. 1 and
2 ore bodies are plainly shown to be separate and riding
both sides of a quartzite saddle. Then no mention is
made of the big body of 2Joz. ore in the water shaft, which
body, judging bv strong similarity to the ore in the very
rich shafts, is apparently the same ore body as in No. 2
swung round to the normal N. 15 W. strike; and, if that
be right, there is almost certainly 300 ft. of high-grade
between it and No. 2. The fact that No. sis in the country,
though many leaders have been cut, would strengthen
the opinion. The lode at the back of the camp has not
been sampled, except for a width of 20ft. in the costeen,
and it can’t be sampled at any lower point just yet
because the shaft is being sunk in the country. Then, of
the Bull Ant, he says: “ A little gold has been found in this
claim, but in a narrow vein so far, though the surround-
ing schist also carries gold.” It does. Grut sampled the
narrow quartz vein, and also sampled separately the 4ft.
of hornblendic rock in which the quartz vein occurred.
He turned down the show cold on the evidence of the
vein. Then he discovered that the bulk sample of the horn-
blendic rock was worth 2oz. sdwt., and he turned the
Bull Ant up again with great velocity.
* * * *
The chief outcome of the Bullfinch dispute was
really to give the mine a rest from gouging out rich
crushings while the market was on holiday ; so it hasn’t
been worrying the big men at all. In fact, they’ve pro-
bably been much obliged for the chance to do nothing.
* * * *
More quickly than expected, a change was
made in Chaffinch management. Blatchford is in
charge. Meanwhile the W.A. detective department is
trying to see something clearly through all the mud that
has been thrown. They have a simpler job in the salting
of the Young Bullfinch, but expect to get to grips with
the Chaffinch business also, and very soon.
The prospectus of Pine Hill—one of the Bull-
finch floats—.is a peculiar document. Its peculiarness
does not end with Pettigrew’s statement of 3000 tons of
2oz. ore in sight on the strength of two shallow shafts
and no driving. The capital of the co. is £50,000 in 10s.
shares, and 94,000 shares are issued —45,000 fully paid
and £5OO cash to the vendor, who had gx>t the show on
option from the prospectors for £3600 cash and 500
shares. The option was for four months from Nov. 11,
on which date 10 per cent, deposit (£360) was paid to
the prospectors out of the £5OO paid to the "vendor.
50,000 shares were issued at Is., with a call of Is., payable
on Jan. 14, or £5OOO in all, less exes. About £1650 was
left for three months’ development costs. If the gold
from the one crushing met these costs, the £1650 or so is
intact, and, if the Jan. call is all paid, there will be
£4150 at credit, from which £3240 is to be paid on Jan.
14. After that, there is power to make monthly calls of
3d., or £625 per call. Practically, the subscribers of con-
tributing shares pay the option people all the money
required for the purchase and £l4O in addition, and for
this they give the people who pass on the option nearly
half the company—in fully-paid shares too.
* * * *
How the Mountain Queen, at Southern Cross
(W. A.), is going to get along is a problem. Someone gave
the show a nasty left on its flotation, and in consequence
the promoters nurse the whole baby. The float was a
sink, as far as they are concerned.
* * * *
Ore Banda (W.A.) got a good advertisement
the other day. Representatives of London firms went
out and offered £20,000 cash and 20,000 shares for the
best of the shows. The offer was accepted, provided the
shares were planked down with the cash on flotation.
This didn’t suit the promoters’ books, so an alternative
offer of forty thousand was made on a three months’
option. This was refused as a possible gerrymandering
offer, and the owners forthwith gave orders for a plant
of their own. Meanwhile, developments are certainly
promising.
* * * •*
Just over £1,028,000 was paid in dividends by
W.A. gold cos. for 1910. This brings the total distribu-
tion to £21,351,403. Since 1905, when most of the mines
were worked for market purposes and only the best ore
treated, the annual distribution has dwindled as follows :
1905 ..£2,167,639 I 1908 ..£1,487,317
1906 .. 1,993,698 1909 .. 1,359,115
1907 .. 1,738,163 | 1910 .. 1,028,393
In other words, the total has shrunk just one-half in the
past six years, and is still shrinking.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) wound up last financial year
with a working profit of £134,604. Exactly 127,600 short
tons were treated for an average gold recovery of 94"32
per cent., which, considering the class of ore in the mine,
is not so bad. Working costs, including administration
and general, were sd. per ton more than for the previous
year ; but, as the management said 12 months ago that
the rise in price of water would add 6d. per ton to the
cost of treatment, there is really nothing new in this bit
of news. The fly in the current year’s ointment is an in-
crease of 6d. per ton in the cost of firewood; and next
year it will probably be a further drop in the grade of ore,
which declined 2s. per ton for the period just ended. As
usual, manager Black very rightly refuses to give any
definite estimate of ore reserves.
* * * *
The Associated (W.A.) is about to test the new
plant and the power turbines lately installed. Great expec-
tations are based on these ; but it is very doubtful if they
will bring the reduction in costs looked for. Anyhow,
what is the good of a plant unless the mine can answer
the call, and this the Associated does not seem to be in a
position to do!
* * # *
Gilmore’s (N. Queensland) has been crushing at
Gurrumbah mill for highly-payable returns of tin oxide.
The last lot of 120 tons returned 18 tons 12cwt. concen-
trates. There has been no official statement about the
profit. This patch of rich ore, most of it worth 10 per
cent., is 7ft. wide. The ore shoots have, however,
hitherto proved very short. Another crushing should
follow quickly, and a small dividend on 90,000 shares is
very probable. This is at the Dolly Grey. The other
section, the Midas, is being prospected, but the show has
become poor at depth, and carting and crushing kill any
prospect of treating low-grade ore at a profit.
* * * *
Charters Towers continues dull, the only de-
velopment of consequence being a few inches of payable
stone at the bottom of the deep winze from No. 3 level in
the New Brilliant Freehold. It is called the deep winze,
because it is intended to pioneer the deep levels near the
centre of the lease, and consequently in the vicinity of the
loop shoot of stone. There are practically two shoots of
heavily-mineralised quartz in the Freehold, the western
shoot near the boundary of Mills’ United, and the central
or loop shoot, which is strong and highly payable in the
top levels. It has not been conclusively proved whether
the loop extends into the East Mexican, or below the
Freehold’s No. 3 level, but it is probable that it will be
picked up both above and below the area that has been
worked. Still it is not wise to take a Day Dawn develop-
ment for granted, for a rich mineralised reef is frequently
found sandwiched between poor areas of ground. Whether
the Brilliant Block shaft, for example, is anywhere near a
zone of enrichment on the Day Dawn has yet to be
proved.
* * * *
Vulcan (N. Queensland) has just produced
£3682 worth of concentrates from 790 tons of crushing
stuff of better grade than the recent average. Still, the
gross value of the return conveys no idea of the probable
profit. Also, when there are profits there are 264,000
shares to divide them amongst. The best stope in the
mine (35ft. by 18ft.) is at the 750 ft. level. The deep
workings are still disappointing, though they are driving
hopefully on a make of low-grade ore located while taking
in the main drive at the 1050 ft. level.
* * * *
Stannary Hills (Q.) has got in a little more
money ; but the prospect of sustaining a milling cam-
paign is still far from bright. With the best tin concen-
trates selling at £llO per ton even a 2 per cent, prospect
becomes a tempting proposition ; the trouble at Stan-
nary is to find even 2 per cent. There is a good quantity
of f percent, stone ; but the co. has burned its fingers
over that already.
* * * *
Why don’t Harry Dodd and his crowd pension
off the Argus mining man or send him to London to act
as the wet blanket at the Coronation ? The yap-yapping
that goes on, first over the Cathcart and next over the
New Langi Logan, gives call-payers an attack of shivers.
What does it matter if the New Langi Logan has IOOCft.
to drive to reach the gutter, that the water has to be
handled, and that another 18 months may have to pass
before the wash is entered ? There is no need to ladle
out these well-known facts just when the market fire is
being brightened up to make ready for a call. The main
fact, after all, is that the Langi Logan lead is a land of
promise, though far off, and that the people at the back
of it are a plucky lot.
* * # *
Swiss Mount is a poppy-cock sort of a hillock at
Daylesford (Vic.) that aspires to become an eminence.
Like all the other district shows, it crowed a good deal
in the distant past, and now, after 18 months of call-pay-
ing, there isn’t enough gold to gild the lettering on a
tombstone. So the western ground is to be quitted as
bdng too hard and too barren even for so stubborn a
plot as Swiss Mount. The new love is the eastern run of
stone ; and so the world is advised that “ it has now been
disclosed that all the good gold previously won came from
the eastern channel of country, which is softer and more
kindly in appearance." This is not official dictum,
be it said, but it is the sort of flapdoodle that
is being served up to an indulgent public. There
is also a whisper that in one of the old
stopes left 45 years ago the workers were so thoughtful
about the next man that they left 6ft. of payable stone
for him to gouge opt. They also left for him a flat make
going into the footwall, although it carried payable dirt.
So after mentioning all this, and that the gold had “ left
the hard channel and dropped into the eastern channel,”
just like neighbor Jones dropped in to borrow a fiver
before Christmas, it was hardly necessary to tell the world
that there is a powerful winding plant on the mine
capable of hauling over 1000 ft.
* * * *
Mosquito Creek Prospecting and Options Co.
was floated in Melbourne lately with a capital of £20,000
in £lO shares. The Ohillagoe 00. is largely interested in
Mosquito Creek, which is a silver-lead proposition. The
shaft is down 58ft., and a drive at 32ft. shows a face of
ore 6ft. wide ; nine tons of picked ore assayed 550 z. silver
and 74 per cent. lead. No stoping has been done, and
the shipments to Chillagoe smelters are from develop-
ment.
* * * *
The Tasmanian West Coast, which has been in
a shockingly depressed state for over a year, got
the welcome bit of news that the old feud between the
local smelting co. and the principal mining cos. has been
patched up; so work at the smelters is likely to start
again very shortly.
* * * *
Langford’s Balfour mine-railway scheme (Tas.)
looks like a gold brick. There is no tonnage of ore
proved at Balfour, and lately the talk is less of-mineral
and coke freight and more of timber and agricultural
produce, and that doesn’t sound well. Apparently the
hope is that the mine-railway co. will earn a bit at the
beginning by carrying its own plant; but that suggests
too strongly the island where everybody lived by taking
in each other’s washing.
■****.
A new tin proposition in Tasmania is getting
itself noticed. It is in difficult country near the Stanley
River, and has been named Mt. Lindsay, after Lindsay
Tulloeh, one of the directors. He has returned from the
show, and states that the formation carrying tin is very
extensive. A trench cut through a mass of gossan near
the surface gave a bulk assay of 3’l per cent. A short
drive has been put in which also discloses payable values,
and the prospects generally are good enough to encourage
sinking and driving.
* * * *
A quaint old ghost happened on Monday when
the 8. M. Herald’s financial column solemnly quoted the
inscribed deposits of the Australian Banking 00. It is
something like 20 years since that amazing institution
perished and its bones were thrown on to the dust-heap.
Francis Abigail, the busy, fussy, “ h”-less, leather-selling
Minister, whose statement that something was “more
Popery than fiscal ” filled the country with ribald mirth
nearly a generation ago, went down badly in the smash.
Another director was said in later years to have an inter-
mittent address beneath a tree in the Sydney Domain.
Presumably it was the Australian Bank of Commerce that
the Herald intended to allude to. The other financial
A. 8.0. is only a smudge on the far horizon of history
nowadays.
* * * *
Some time last year Sydney and Melbourne got
word of a few millions that were waiting to be picked up
in West Borneo, the country of the amiable gentlemen
who had the head-hunting habit until the Dutchmen
taught them better manners ; and the Kendawangan
Concessions Co. was formed to look at the millions and
see whether they were worth lifting. Two men were
sent from Australia—Capt. Hartrick and H. W. H.
Stevens—and they picked up two others in Java, char
tered a steamer, equipped an expedition, and paddled
over the country. The two things they seem to be surest
of are (1) that the navigable rivers running through the
vast concession are all they were alleged to be ; (2) that the
minerals are all they were alleged not to be. After tracks
had been cut through the jungle, the coal was found ; but
there was so little of it that the explorers turned from it
in disgust. Something might be done with timber ; but
the country is half water, and hence saw’-milling is almost
out of the question—hand-sawing by coolies would have
to be relied upon. In parts eocoanuts grow well; but,
though there is a fine market for copra, and likely to be a
better one, it is a question whether there are not many
places better suited for growing the nuts as a commercial
proposition. The co.’s representatives, however, don’t
say this ; in fact, they don’t express any opinions in their
report to their co.—they just say what they saw, and let
the co. form its own conclusion. And that conclusion
probably won’t be very flattering to Borneo. In which
case this co. w-ill arrive at what seems to be the general
opinion among the men who have knocked around the
Malay Archipelago.
* * * *
If the people behind the Tongkah want to make
a gambling counter of it, it seems to be just the thing for
the purpose. In October, when the bears were being
squeezed, three dredges averaged 1421 b. of tin each per
hour. In December, after the bears had been squeezed,
the average was only 561 b. Like every other dredging
proposition, Tongkah should be easy to sample ; but no
satisfactory sampling has ever been done. And until it
has been done only the gambler will touch it.
End of 1910 saw Waihi shares down on the
.London market to £4 15s. The scare seems to be worse
on the other side than in Maoriland, for the number of
shares on the Dominion register is steadily increas-
es- .Rhodes, the M.L. attorney for the co., says
there is nothing to prevent a continuance of the quar-
terly dividend of 4s. The Financial News says the scare
is largely due to directors not issuing progress reports.
But what more does J. Bull want? Regular monthly
statements are issued giving details of working, and of
assay values, good or bad.
***-■*
Spelter continues to sell at a good price. The
market has been favored by two circumstances—artificial
restriction of the supply in Europe and a restriction of
the furnace capacity in America. There has been a
pretty general change-over in the U.S. from natural-gas
to oil or coal as a furnace fuel, and this change has for
the time being shrunk the output.
* * * *
The usual hard-faced pioneer has begun to write
to the papers about his privations at Bullfinch. Water is
carted at ss. a hundred gallons now, but within a few
weeks the pipe-line will be selling water on the field at 4s.
a thousand. One hard-faced pioneer says : “Ihavepegged
out a claim costing £lO for the 24-acre lease. Will hang on to
it for a while, as the claim next to mine is prospecting, so
if they turn out all right mine might prove worth some-
thing. . . . There are no mosquitoes—no water for them.
Flies are the very devil.” Bullfinch is saltbush and mulga
country, and flies are not bad ; if the hard-faced pioneer
wants to see flies that know their business, lefhini tackle
spinifex country in North Queensland after rain. Climate
is perfect, so perfect that this particular hard-faced
pioneer is dodging labor conditions on his 24-acre lease for
£lO, and letting the next claim do his work for him.
Warden Finnerty is probably listening.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* » • *
F errodor ” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. L.vell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & 0. and N.D.L. steamers, 1 etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * ■» *
It takes a long period of success to justify con-
fidence in manufacturers, but for many years the product
of The Farnley Iron Company Limited, Leeds, has been
recognised by engineers as the highest class of iron (best
Yorkshire), safe under the most onerous tests. For
Rolling Stock, Ship Building and General Engineering
Work it is indispensable, being used by all Australian
State Railways. To be obtained from Sole Agents, Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency Limited, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, and Fremantle, W.A. ; also Reid Brothers and
Russell Prop’y, Ltd., Melbourne ; and Chas. E. Bernays,
Brisbane.*
* * * *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465)“ The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenridge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables with longitudinal riffles.. has
beengreatlyimproved.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks:
“One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability to separate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made by any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wilfley Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [1
*■ * * *
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* r 4
* » * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, in its
October, ’OB, number, comments upon the last report of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited, as
follows : “ To have completed £1,278,034 of new business
is a really splendid achievement for any office, but for a
comparatively young one (having been established in
1873) the figures are of incense interest, and indicate the
force of the power which the Colonial Mutual has attained
in the insurance world.”*
* * * *
Save money by using WOOD PIPE in prefer-
ence to metal pipe, it is cheaper to buy, costs less for
transport and labor and lasts longer. Send for a cata-
logue to the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain,
Sydney.*
■*•***
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* » * *
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydnej'. Large stocks onhand.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
urface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
• » * •
One of the oldest and best-known engineering
concerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company with a capital of £150,000, and will
now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, the
governing directors being Mephan Ferguson and Robert
Shand. The head office and works are at Gordon Street,
Footscray, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * ■* *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F+ 0* Robinson, Proprietor
Ideas. We are hearing a great deal to-day
about the dangers accompanying the use of ladies’
hat pins. As hat pins are increasing, to-morrow
we shall hear more. But are such dangers inevit-
able—cannot they be removed ? Human ingenuity
has not failed. It surely should be equal to pro-
viding a protector or shield of an acceptable
character. The chief of Berlin’s Police has issued
an edict against hat pins unless sheathed. With-
out committing yourself to any charge or obliga-
tion you can obtain particulars as regards patent-
ing from Phillips Ormonde & Co., at 2GO Flinders
Street Elevator Melbourne.*
LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS A WHITTY,
Melbourne and Sydney. [i
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THOUGHT IT WAS LONDON STYLE.
B' LL (to Britisher, who has rigged himself out
carefully for the bush): “I suppose, now, if
a man was to take a trip over to London
he’d have to get a set of togs like you've got
on to be at all in the fashion, eh? ”
“ Thoughtful Theo ” : One of the most
heat-wave-infested places on this expansive con-
tinent is along the Bight Scrub. Travelling on
the Eucla mail, I struck that arcadian spot at a
time when the sun had for a week been trying to
set fire to the world and the air was redolent of
cooking vermin. A northern blisterer was blow-
ing apparently out of No. 1 stoke-hole in Sheol;
birds with singed tails drooped in the stunted
mallee; and we pulled under a tree to cool our
frying feet. Presently we saw an old cart
come down the burning sand track pushing
a horse too thin for the crows to make an
entree of. In the cart sat something that
looked not unlike a man. In reality it was a
paling with a ragged beard attached thereto.
The mail-driver asked it if it wasn’t afraid of
catching alight. To which the paling replied
that it liked a bit of sunshine occasionally ; that
it was sick of the cold weather, and that the glass
hadn’t gone beyond 114° in the shade for a month
before this fine, warm spell. We next expressed a
desire to know how it kept its horse so fat. It
informed us that the animal was looking pretty
well because it had got some cocky chaff a few
days before from an old mattress back at the
Bight Hut. The paling then cleaned off a couple
of bottles of our ale, poured some water on the
smoking axles of its venerable cart, stirred the
razory horse with a length of hoopiron, and jogged
on.
“Jamble”: Some years ago, when I had
charge of a school on the North Coast (N.S.W.),
one of the lads became sick —couldn’t locate a
pain anywhere, but just “felt sick all over.” I
sent him home, and by evening he was himself
again. Next day, at school, he repeated the sick
act. By noon his condition was so queer that I
sent him off again. Next day same thing over
again, only worse. He kept very seedy for
another week ; got a bit helpless in the legs, and
at last was carted off to the nearest doctor, who
ordered him into the hospital. For seven months
he lay there, a puzzle to the doctors and nurses.
“ Improperlynourishedsystem,’’said they (hewasa
fine robust lad). Later on, when one leg showed
signsof wasting, theysaid, “Bone disease.” Before
he died he was mere skin and bone, and the
doctors and nurses had nominated him as the
victim of nearly every ailment on the medical
list. He suffered little or no pain. But the neigh-
bors accounted for his death in this way. Just a
year before his sickness the boy was engaged in
cutting “gammon gooseberry” from amongst the
corn, and was bitten on the leg by a large carpet
snake. The bite was scarified and sucked, and
salt was rubbed into the wound, and no ill effects
appeared at the time. But snake-experts in that
locality affirm that unless the bite of a carpet
snake be carefully treated the poison will get into
the system and eventually cause a lingering death,
or a state of health bearing a resemblance to the
wasting of consumption. The boy’s case seems to
bear out the argument.
♦ * * *
“J. 5.8.”: “ McGin ty’s ” word in the
sheep-shearer's ear (B. 8/12/TO) is hereby supple-
mented with a long and emphatic shout. Never
take a job in a shed without first examining the
certificate of the bloke who proposes to lead,
drive or coax the engine. In 1907 I ran a 40-
stand shearing contractor’s plant on a station
near Jundah (Q.). Included in the station portion
of the plant was a weird-looking contraption called
a donkey-engine, with which the dump was driven.
Itsuffered from senile decay, aggravated by many
years’ exposure to the elements, and the only man
I could find, at first, game enough to go near it
was, I subsequently discovered, a laudanum fiend.
At Murrumbidgerie station, Dubbo (N.S.W.),
about ’93, I was shearing right under the belt, and
hearing a roar of steam and ear-piercing yells,
looked up in time to get a glimpse of the engine
priming and its alleged driver disappearing in the
distance. It seems only a fair thing that the man
who can blow 70 or 80 men all over the landscape
should hold a certificate of competency. That’s
my opinion, anyhow.
* * * *
“ Giddap ” : Carney kept the pub when I
reached the goldfield town in W.A., and Ginger
Nolan was the barman. Twelve months
later, to the great surprise of a thirsty popu-
lation, Carney went broke and sold out. To
the increased surprise of the thirsty popu-
lation, Nolan was the purchaser. He did
the decent thing, too, and made Carney his
barman, which was a good business move as
it turned out, for in a short year’s time Nolan
was on the rocks, and Carney bought the
business again. Ginger was promptly given
his old stand ; but somehow Carney couldn’t
make a do of things, and in nine months
Nolan’s name was above the door once more.
During the next two years the business
changed hands frequently from Nolan to
Carney and rice versa in a most confusing
manner. Speaking from memory, I fancy
Nolan put up the longest run in those two
years, viz., four months ; but Carney had the
best average. Race week spoiled Nolan’s
average. He had been in possession for one
week, and the signwriter had only just
finished the job of inscribing his name above
the portal, when Carney took the reins again.
Remember calling in one evening with a
friend who had a dog tied up there, and
he was in a quandary as to the right man to
settle up with. “Damfino, Mick,” lie said
to Carney, who was behind the bar, “who
is running this joint—you or Ginger?”
“Faith!” said Carney, “it’s aisy enough f’r
a mahn t’ figure thot out. The wan thot has
his coat on is boss—temprilly.”
“Homo” : Be the negro cockatoo’s lack
of proficiency in the art of sawing, averred
by “L.H.”(B. 22/12/TO), I desire to supply the
information that I know nothing about the colored
gentleman’s qualifications, but I do know that the
white cockatoo (or one of him, anyhow) is a skilled
artisan in that respect. An up-country railway
ganger, who has the one of him I allude to, is also
the proprietor of a slut that recently became the
mother of six. The ganger selected the pup he
was going to keep, and docked its tail. Next
morning he was mystified to find that a couple
more pups had had their tails docked, and won-
dered what dog-carpenter had been at work.
Later in the day the mystery was fully cleared up.
Sounds of strife in the vicinity of the kennel
attracted attention, and Cocky was caught in the
act of sawing off the half-dozenth tail. The bird
had been an interested spectator of the initial
operation, and evidently thought that uniformity
would be appreciated.
* * *
“ Pat O’Maori ”: “ Rastus ” (B. 29/12/’10)
is talking plain rot about Maori consonants,
Also, the dictionary is wrong, and so is “Robert
Brothers,” while “Psyche” is only a bit right.
“Rastus’s” idea that “aw ” and “pah ” end in
consonants ought to provoke mirth. Maori deals
only with sounds, but the written language,
which was constructed by the pakeba, isn’t a
work of art. I submit that “aw ” and “pah”
both end in vowel sounds, and moreover the “w”
in the former is a pure vowel making with the
“a” not a diphthong, for there are none in Maori,
but a word of two syllables. Let “Rastus” prove
the truth of this by getting a nice Maori girl to
pronounce “aw,” and then go and apologise to
the dictionary—which, though it is wrong, still
knows more than he does.
* ■» * •*
“ Curse o’ Moses ” : “ L.H.” (B. 29/12/’10)
argues that “native thrush” is a better name
than “Australian mavis.” I don’t agree with
him. At the same time my vote goes for
“southern throstle” as being a better name than
either, unless a native name better than “whis-
tling Dick ” can be found.
AN UNSETTLED QUESTION.
“ Wuz ye at Murphy’s weddin ’ larst noight? ”
“ Oi was.”
“An’ to ho wuz best man?”
“ Shure an’ Oi duhno. Whin Oi lift Ryan had
been kilt entoirely, an’ Doolan was sinseless,
an’ Dwyer was foightin’ Flannigan wid the
poker an’ a bottle.”
“ Karee ” : “ L.M.R.” (B. 22/12/10) hurls
an unmerited anathema at “Miner.” The pure-
bred dingo does occasionally go for a man,
though, as a rule, he owns as much pluck as a
Chinese-grown cucumber. A dingo lady, who
caught me in the socialistic act of bursting her
happy home, close-up got me by the throat and
actually by the hand before I carried out the
death sentence. When hungry or at bay some of
the curses will do anything. Before I started
baiting I lost seven yearling calves near the house
(not counting those I found out in the bush) and
sundry chooks. In broad daylight they’d sneak
up to the fowl-house or the pen ; one even came
up on the verandah, where I violated the laws of
hospitality with a gun. In full daylight in the pig
paddock last winter, a pack tackled Roger Bacon,
the Berkshire boar. The last I saw of them Roger
was heading them for Port Darwin, and when the
direct line is built I’m going to look for them.
* * * *
“ Gil Gunnia ” : Apropos of radio-active
substances curing cancer and other malignant
growths, it is probable that some of our own
Binghis were the first to make use of the cure.
Years ago, in my day there, the Mutti Mutti
tribe, up on the Warrego (Q.), used an earthy
material for ulcers and other complaints. Pro-
bably they use it still. It was a friable black earth,
which, when moistened with water and gum-
leaves, would set, and it was then applied to the
spot somewhat after the style of a plaster. The
earth required was obtained from an excavation
on the river bank, where there was an ironstone
outcrop; and a pit, which had perhaps taken
centuries to delve, had been dug out by the blacks.
I remember one old gin in particular who had a
rank tumor on the groin so that she could only
just crawl. The tribal M.D. applied mineral
plasters ornamented with a weird hulla-baloo.
Whether it was the potency of the plaster or the
desire to escape a repetition of the performance I
don’t know, but the gin was getting about in a
fortnight’s time.
* * #
“ Flinderino ” : As regards tucker the
aboriginal is a selfish beggar; but he is usually
generous with his clothing, and doesn’t mind lend-
ing his only shirt to other members of the tribe.
Old Billy Bukki, who is thesenior member of a camp
on the creek near my humpy,' recently pestered me
for an old pfellaeoat. Not having a coat to spare, I
presented Binghi wjth an archaic blue and yellow
football jersey. Billy’s eyes sparkled with joy.
“ What name that pfella?” he asked. “Rainbow
coat,” I told him. Black William hastened back
to the camp and showed the treasure to his pals.
He let each one of them put the jersey on just to
feel what it was like. In the afternoon Nellie,
Billy’s gin, was wearing the colored arrangement;
but she soon discarded it because it tickled too
much. Billy came to me next morning for a bit
of ’bacca, and, incidentally, to show me the re-
mains of my one-time football jacket. All the
back was burnt clean out. “Jimmie sleep too
close longa fire las’ night,” explained William the
Murky.
“Silas Snell”:
Halligan started the
trouble. Halligan in-
augurated most of
the mischief that
enlivened the rural
sedateness and Sab-
bath calm of Mallow
Flat. Halligan said
the liver-and-wliite
animal, with a short
tail at its finish,
popularly miscalled
a dog, was his dog.
Everybody knew the
animal to be Pope’s.
But Halligan had no
respect for popular
opinion when it was
contrary to his own,
and especially if it
afforded a peaceful
settlement of any
difficulty. He there-
fore offered to fight
Pope. The alacrity
with which Halligan
undertook to fight
anybody about any-
thing was one of the
gayest characteris-
tics of this amiable
Hibernian. Halligan
and Pope fought 10
rounds, and Halli-
gan won on points.
But Pope retained
the dog. Later,
Halligan fought
him again, osten-
sibly to secure pos-
session of the non-
descript with the
abbreviated ap-
pendage. Halligan
won. Pourteen
times Halligan
fought Pope for
that orphan - dog,
and every time Pope
was severely, if super-
ficially, injured. And
still the dog remained
with Pope. But after
the fifteenth hiding Pope
resolved that the cur was
not worth the candle, and
~ he took a piece of stout
rope, knotted it about the
neck of the white tyke with the liver finish,
led the animal to Halligan’s back yard, emphati-
cally, carefully, and securely tied the dog to
Halligan’s door-scraper, and then went away to
enjoy his season of peace on earth and good-will
to men. Two hours later Halligan and Pope were
fighting furiously in Clapp's paddock. “ What
the divil are yez two foightin’ fer thish toime ? ”
asked McGuire. “ Rayson enough ! ” yapped
Halligan. “Tell me for whoy does this man be
lavin’ his dirty cur continooally on moi
premises ? ”
* * * *
“ Nunawading ” : Ti-tree or tea-tree ? An
authority says it is a mistake to suppose the name
to be aboriginal. It is, he says, tea-tree.
Physician Anderson, of one of Cook’s ships, made
a sort of tea from the leaves, and christened this
scrub-shrub. The tea would be about as enticing
as the blue-gum tea, which Mueller tried to get
visitors to take at the Melbourne Botanic. But
might not the aboriginal name have been ti-tree ;
whereupon Cook’s doctor might say, “Let us ti v
and make some tea out of it”? How say the
Abojury—tea-tree or not tea-tree ?
A MAN OF WEIGHT.
TRAMP: “Yes, an’ me a bank manager wunst!
Ah, lady, don’t it touch your heart to see me
rejooced to this!”
LADY: “ Reduced! Heavens alive! What was
your weight when you was bankin'? ”
mo ,
“ The Scapegoat butts in :
Re wet sheep. In spite of the contumely which has
been hurled ac the testing machines, the matter will
never be satisfactorily settled till some mechanical de-
v’ce ’. s acce P l j ed - 1 have been through the whole busi-
ness, from picker-up and tar-boy to boss of the board,
and ’ andid [ y admit that if sheep have had two fair days
and nights dr yin**-, I can’t tell whether they are damp or
not. I don’t believe anyone else can, either. All the
same, I don’t think it is only innate cussedness that
makes so many shearers ready to vote “wet sheep.”
e , ™ ain to . nwid, is the dread
that the most awful physical consequences will
inev itabl.v follow the sheafing of damp sheep, al-
though the superstition was not supported by any evi-
dence adduced by the recent commission. Then there is
the constant effort to beat yesterday’s tally or the man
next above on the tally-board, which results in such a
fierce orgy of downright, bollocking as holds in no other
occupation ; and this, added to the cramped position and
backache, makes a spell very welcome, especially to the
weaker man. So, after a long run at extreme tension, he
votes that the mutton is wet every time.
THE OLD BUSH PUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pallid resurrection-pie and the sago-slops to follow,
These are the viands that meet your eye when you
mooch in, tired and hollow,
To shout yourself to a good, square meal at the “ranch”
where the blokes foregather
Three times a day. With a clash of steel they gobble and
howl and blather,
And the grey dry-hash is served with spuds that have
travelled for weary ages,
And the pale-brown tea spreads out in floods on the table-
cloth’s printed pages;
And the boss stands by in a loud beer-scent and pulls on
a pump like blazes,
And the sullen, brown bush-beer is blent with fodder in
all its phases.
When the glorious summer sky is blue and the joy of toil
well-tackled
Is warm in the stalwart heart of you—when your cheerful
soul’s unshackled,
And you high-step down to the buzzing pub, where your
excellent self will shortly
At the trough assemble and shoulders rub with a com-
pany far from courtly,
This is the time when the old bush ways and the cheapest
of old bush tucker,
And the old bush Ohinese-cooking craze, and the old
bush pub plate-mucker.
And the old bush nominal chicken-brotli, to old bush
stock a debtor,
And the old bush duff in its old bush cloth—and every-
thing could be better 1
When here you stare at the greasy fare and the frizzled
joints unbasted,
You feel there’s something crook somewhere—and a
dashed good appetite wasted.
When the corned meat’s brown and the lean, roast beef
has hoofed it untold seasons,
When the fly leaves his rafter-leaf above and bellows his
blithering reasons
Why he should dine at the board with you; when you
sorrow in blank self-pity—
It’s then you murmur a moan or two as you think o’ the
clean-fed city.
With its heartless stews and its terrible pies and its boss,
the long-beer sighter,
With its heathen cook and its plague of flies, the old bush
pub’s a blighter 1
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


gh
Carter's
SITTLE
IV ER
PILLS.
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Belief -Permanent Cure.
CABTEB’S LITTLE LIVEB PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
surely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress—cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Engagement Rings
are always in much demand after
the year-end holidays, and during
the time of long' summer evenings.
WHY?
We must leave others to decide. Our
business is with the making of the
rings.
Fine Diamonds
and 1 Emerald,
£9.
Choice Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires,
£5/5/-
Special Value
Diamonds, £5/5/-
DIAMONDS REDUCED ENORMOUSLY.
For six months we will offer diamonds in Ring's, Pendants and Jewellery generally at prices never
before attempted in Australia. WHY ?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have to live up to it;
and so to increase our already large output we are offering all Diamond Goods at merely a commission
on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ Cumbangaree ” : “ Climax ” (Bulletin,
24/11/TO) wants somebody to explain how com-
paratively fresh emu eggs and comparatively
blast baby emus come to be in the same nest. At
times Old-man Emu runs a limited harem, and
while his consorts generally lay each in her own
nest, they sometimes take advantage of a ready-
made household in which to deposit the nucleus
of another family. The male occasionally assists
his concubine in the sitting business, but he con-
siders the nursery stages of his youngsters’ up-
bringing beneath his dignity, even to the extent
of contributing to the juveniles’ damper. Though
extremely lax in parental regard for his “latest
addition,” the old boy zealously and pugnaciously
guards the missus and the kids before they break
the shell. Probably he is so disappointed with
the look of the infant when it does arrive that he
immediately renounces probate. Anyway, what-
ever the reason, he ignores the infant from that
moment.
* * * *
“Vigilans”: My experience is that the
dingo will not attack man. Between Broome and
Beagle Bay, in the Far Nor’-West, I met a pack of
the most awful scarecrow-looking dogs I have ever
seen; but, although they followed me for two
days, the least sign of aggressiveness was sufficient
to scatter them. On the Victoria River the beasts
are numerous and destructive. A sheep-run was
established there some years ago, but jumbucks
had to be given up owing to the raids of the
enemy. They killed the lambs apparently for
the mere fun of the thing. By the way, the N.T.
dogs are the largest in Australia ; the better luck,
therefore, that they are not very numerous, except
on the previously-mentioned Victoria.
* * * «
“ Leo Lear ” : I reckon I’ve seen as big a
congregation of Australian birds gathered together
as any man in Australia. It was during the big
drought, and I was camped by a lone tank in Vic-
toria’s then vacant Mal-
lee, with no other water
nearer than 50 miles.
Towards sundown the
birds used to come down
in clouds—white cocka-
toos, Major Mitchells,
galahs and gang-gangs,
all varieties of parrots,
from the beautiful smok-
ers and ring-necks to the
little shell parrots;
bronzewing pigeons in
hundreds, and top-knot
doves ; crows and hawks,
black magpies (chough),
common ditto, mudlarks
and plover. At times
they were so thick on
the water’s edge that
there was no room for
any more to drink. I
then threw some pine
rails into the water, and
so many birds settled
thereon that the relief
raft was temporarily
sunk. Although the
country was thick with
mallee hens, I never saw
one of them come to
drink. They must belong
to the total abstainers,
or home consumers. In
the same portion of
Weary’s dominion I
have seen thousands of
rabbits 40 miles from
water during the lean
years of a decade ago; but
they were living on pig-
face that grew on the
copi flats. In the end
it was starvation that
killed them. Nevertheless, bunny will go to con-
siderable trouble to get water if it is about. Came
to a9x9x9log-tankforwateroneevening, and found
that some chump had left the lid off. The tank
was choked with dead rabbits. It was the most
unsavory business I ever struck. I hasten to
add that at that time the business of Yassberra as
the Federal forfeiture had not been transacted.
A SEVERE LOSS.
TOURIST: “Did the hush-fire cause any serious damage yesterday?”
BOSH TANK: “ My oath, it did. Burnt down the only bloomin' pub we ’ad in the town.”
“Gil Gunnia ” : I can tell “Maginnis
Magee” (B. 22/12/TO) that the bartering and swap-
ping of gins is not confined to the Northern
Territory and West Queensland. A good deal
i s done in that way in the nor’-west of W.A.,
THE LIGHT THAT FAILED.
OLDBOY: “Hello! Why so glum! ”
BINKS (gloomily): “ I’ve just undergone a serious
operation .”
OLDBOY (sympathetically): "Had your appendix
cut off! ”
BINKS: “No; gas.”
around the Gascoyne. There the ladies are not so
docile as in the other places mentioned, and in the
first place they generally have to be caught either
by strategy or might, and at the risk of a reprisal
by the tribe. They are, however, loth to return
after they have tasted civilised joys (i.e., bad
whisky, ’bacca, etc.), and the shanty-owners are
usually relied on to do any swapping that may be
desired. As a rule the gin doesn’t object to being
exchanged as long as she knows she will get a
liberal allowance of ’bacca and whisky from her
new proprietor.
“ P. O’Maori”: In the outer suburbs of
Sydney I met an animal that was unknown tome.
Can any Aboliar find a name for it ? It hopped
towards me in the gathering dusk, and I thought
I had run against the animal that had sat for the
portrait of Souter’s cat. A second look, however,
convinced me that it was George Reid’s unwetted
dog. Drawing nearer, I was almost convinced
that it was one of Norman Lindsay’s bears ; when
I noticed that, seen in profile, it had the bearing
of a kangaroo. It Was about the size of a lump of
wood, of a color between light and dark ; it ap-
peared to be Liberal in its politics, and it was
some distance from the nearest pub. lam not
really anxious to know its name, but would like
to be informed whether it swallows its young like
a snake, or bites itself like a Tory, or merely
swallows its snakes like a whisky ? It went away
before I could strike a match to look at it.
* * ■» *
“ Eddyson ” : A country storekeeper on
the brink of one of Victoria’s little madcap
mountain railways told me about Macdougal.
Macdougal was justly celebrated for his strenuous
frugality. He was not called a mean man ; but it
was said of him that he would rather wear out
money than spend it. A relation possessing
inside information put the prosperous agriculturist
and cow-owner on to a good mining deal, and
Mac, in a mad burst of prodigality, invested £5O.
Mr. Macdougal was in the store one morning, a
few weeks later, ordering a few necessaries of life
with his customary circumspection when he re-
ceived the news that his £5O worth of scrip had
hopped, skipped and jumped, and now represented
£lOOO in round numbers. Mac was exalted, but
did not lose his head. “Man!” he said, “but
yon’s gude news. It’s verra gude news. Idunno;
but I will maybe—yes, dang it, I will—l’ll tali’ a
tin o’ kippered herrings ! ”
* * * *
“J.5.8.,”wh0 was flagrantly robbed:—
In spite of all “ Abo ’’ authorities may say to the con-
trary, the ’possum is the most sagacious animal of the
Australian hush. In ’BB I was pumping for 8000 ewes on
Derribong, Dandaloo (N.S.W.), at a netted tank 10 miles
from the Bogan, which was the nearest water. To this
tank every bird, beast and reptile for 10 miles round
used to repair after dark for a drink. I didn’t
mind shouting a drink for them ; but when the
’possums and native cats wanted me to cook for them as
well, and commenced to raid my tucker-box, I objected.
To show my disapproval, I put the tucker-box under my
hammock (two cornsacks on two saplings). I reckoned
that, unless they resorted to violence, they’d have to do
their own cooking. But I was reckoning without my
’possum. On the third night something bit me on the
toe, hard, and, scrambling out of bed, I was just in time
to see a spotted native cat disappearing. I treed him and
slew him, and returned to the tent just in time to see three
’possums with a freshly-baked damper, two with halt a
brownie, six with a leg of mutton, eight with my sugar-
bag containing about 101 b. of sugar, all shinning up
myalls ; but not a native cat among them. I could see,
then, it was a put-up job on me and the cat. Also, it
was the only time I ever saw my cooking thoroughly
appreciated.
STRIKE THE SAUSAGE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arthur Kench, inspector under the Pure Foods Act
proceeded against a ham and beef shop proprietor, at
the Water Summons Court yesterday, for having sold
adulterated sausages.
The evidence of the complainant was that on October
27 he visited defendant’s shop and obtained a pound of
sausages for analysis, and when analysed they were
found to contain lOf grains of sulphur dioxide, a quan-
tity greatly in excess of that prescribed in the regula-
tions. —News item.
We were three men without a match,
Within a gloomy lodging ;
We cowered ’neath the rustling thatch,
Debating plans for dodging,
By corridor and risky stair,
To gain a single candle ;
Brown rose at last and said, “ Oh ! where
The h—l is that door-handle?”
He took one forward step and fell
With fearful force onTupper,
Who loosed one wild and dismal yell
And fell upon the supper.
“Hooray ! ” he cried, “ Let’s up, you ass !”
A light illumed the dossage
As Tupper proudly lit the gas ;
He’d struck the sulphur sausage !
N.S.W.
TAR LODGER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
W. 8.: “ Oarpe Diem” doesn’t strike a very
conspicuous note. It merely states in plain language a
fact that has been obvious for half a billion years or so.
...M.O.O’H. : Promising, but a trifle rough, Try again.
J.M.S. : A blank-cartridge story E.L. J.: Sorry
hobble-skirt poem unable to hop. May use item as a par.
E.M.L. : Thb hot night moan has a flicker of promise
in it, but the patriotic song is liable to be misunderstood.
Take the first two lines:
Australia the golden, fair land of the free,
The interest of nations is centred on thee.
Coming on the eve of a great loan-drunk, that remark
about interest looks uncommonly like bitter sarcasm...
Sheoak : Some graceful touches, but it is weak verse
M. (N.S.W.) : Cheerj’ item. Sorry we haven’t space to
print it Kiem : Fairly humorous, but the idea is too
slight for a sketch. May utilise it as a par... .R.F.8.8. :
Two verses about the superior, hobble-skirted domestic
will do:
She said she liked two nights a week
And sometimes Saturday ;
She said that she a place did seek
Where things were always gay.
The mistress listened to her wants
As she lay down the law ;
And when she’d finished, slightly bowed
And showed her out the door.
Brave woman! Imprimatur: Not well enough
handled Opal: Might be enough in the Christmas
Eve sketch for a par. Other fails. Try again H.F.C.:
Commendable work, but a bit rough. . Gumsucker(V.) :
If you have plenty of spare time, don’t devote it to
scribbling ; go and romp again on the mountain and get
more grass-seeds in your fancy socks F. C. McK. :
Sorry, all fail Nemo (Redfern): Verses of no value.
You might try some newsy paragraphs The Beast
(M.L.): Some grace, but it is a patchy thing, with several
jolts in it Austral L.: Not quite enough skill. No
address on MS Gil G.: Both condemned Ambi-
tious : “ Droving Days ” is a jagged poem, which con-
tains one really harsh remark :
Death has wafted you away
To a gaol beyond the river and the range.
F.W.F.: Three verses of the Scout poem will do :
Who walks the street full up with pride,
His mother’s broomstick at his side,
With stockings short and dirty knees,
And chest expanded to the breeze ?
Why, that’s the Scout!
Who is the lad who never wears
His uniform ? Who never cares
If people look when he is out
In uniform ? Why, that’s the Scout—
I don’t think 1
Who tracks the rooster to his den,
And chases fast the speckled hen ?
Who finds the ground-worm in its lair,
And hits it hard and leaves it there ?
Why, that’s the Scout!
Werona: You start off apparently to prove that
N. rabbit destruction is in good hands, and wind up
by supporting the chap whom you set out to curse
H. Bax: You can submit it.... Arno: This paper’s big-
gest thirst is for information ; it already has a vast quan-
tity of opinion on the premises—two floors full of it....
Water-melon: You’re a bit green so far... .P.F.L.:
Thanks; welcome....O’D.: Yes; it’s apparently the
same old contraption Dulcie: Thomas Kingston made
his first Sydney appearance at Her Majesty’s in “Secret
Service,” on August 26, 1899. He and Henrietta Watson
appeared in “ The Christian ” on Septen.ber 23, 1899....
A.A.C. : Good ; but we can’t heap sugar on our own plate,
even when it’s moistened with vinegar G. de J.:
Thanks; but dealt with some time ago Bessie B. :
Much obliged; will inquire....Pedic : As to “penulti-
mate,” think you were wrong. As to “ usance,” perhaps
you were right—the rightness or wrongness of com-
mercial terms is mainly a matter of custom. In fact,
when you get to commercial terms, you’ve left Language
and arrived at Jargon.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.W.S. :No value for illustration Austral Lit: Too
thin F. McO. : No good for illustration.... W. A.R. :
Just missed... .Roy R.: Too obscure a jest.. ..A.G.: The
drawings suffer from too little, and the jokes from too
much, experience.. ..Spin : Promising.
Sands’ Sydney Directory is 51 years old. It
was, no doubt, a good directory when it was born ; and
every year within this paper’s recollection it has shown
some improvement somewhere. It is more than a city
directory now; it includes the names of business and
professional men in all the country towns of N.S.W. ; the
names of all the squattages ; and a vast quantity of infor-
mation that the up-to-date commercial house must have.
And, seeing that much of the information can’t be got
anywhere else, it follows that the up-to-date commercial
house must have Sands’ Directory.
Land seems to be so scarce in Maoriland
these times that even a corpse has to sleep with
one eye open to prevent his grave being jumped.
About seven years ago a selector, who was entered
on the registers as “ a pauper,” took up a 6ft.
homestead in a Dunedin cemetery, where he re-
mained in undisturbed possession until a few days
ago, when he was suddenly evicted and thrown
out in the cold, inhospitable world. Worse. After
being kicked out, his few scraps of furniture were
piled on top of him and set on tire. Meanwhile his
vacated tenement was being scraped clean with a
shovel for a fresh lodger. Being too dead to ring
up the tire brigade, the ejected landholder just
lay in the open and slowly roasted until the new-
comer arrived. Then an awful smell forced its
way into the house-warming party, and broke it
up with suddenness and a horrible sinking in the
pit of its feelings. The police were informed of
the proceedings, and rushed up in time to save
some small pieces of bone, part of a coffin plate
and a pile of human charcoal. They buried the
bone, but unless the wind gives back what went
up in smoke, one pauper at least will have to send
a letter of apology for his absence at the last roll
call.


TaJ'f e* Co^lssior ero f V,c
' (^w)
v/Zr ourArt'V S»v,W»? Fri «*»
Ansreft K'HC
I'm afraid
To co
IM Tw£- dark
L ' *
at *
*T fewtridee • * e s r °'
convict Ki-.^
dio
_(Vfy
jour
new YEAR resolutions.
BOARD OF HEALTH’S CAMPAIGN.
The plans of the Board of Public Health
for 1911, as set out by the chairman
(Dr. Burnet Ham) at the meeting yester*
day, are ambitious and comprehensive.
S'/
/A^%°
t’% <
4"S 'K.-W
)/■«• %.rH
Faf landlord "Tfj burden of id^a^Ton
W*s niorC Ifon I Could fc«V, So l've f»ut~
\Y~ on I tTe moKe .
If- imferij -"te cky
(ould *> hole, “te Keep "&« wind a.WA.y
.Sorely 'rf)C» , earfc offcerSvAl've Orwell,-who ip
They Spread ow't' pfte'fe/a op
£|i**tet£ S 1". jsc. %c %c %
tclicVfc yton\d £©}»*>+s i/cV \tvricr AslfoH)
THE MELBOURNE CAULDRON.


MAY VISIT AUSTRALIA.
According to « letter received
from Lieutenant-General liaden-
Powell, K.C.8., there I* every,
probability of the hero of Hate-
Ling (who also
Is father of the
Boy Scout
movement) pay*
Ing a visit to
Australia this '
year.
Average citizen (with lively
recollections of Mafeking Night): "That
awful man! Oh, Lord 1”
GOSPEL-HARDENED BLACKS.
Missionary effort’ among the Aus-
tralian aboriginals would seem to
be in a bad way.
When you see people In Coonnmble
going about with their tongues hanging
out you may know It’s Sunday.
On Sunday last, though the temperature was Close
on lOOdeg. In the shade, the people’ Were Unable to
secure cool drinks owing to the police authorities eh*
forcing the Sunday closing of the refreshment rooms lb
town.
At the annual missionary meeting
held in the Petersham- Baptist Church
recently the president, Mr. T, E. Cole-
t>rook, said that at Roseby Park the
natives seemed to be gospel-hardened.
*» S >V
jys
A <o
A \*
v y a® «.
*V%® *T
p>V
EARTHQUAKE IN MELBOURNE.
Early this morning; residents in several of the southern
suburbs were aroused from their sleep by a series of earth-
quake shocks accompanied by a muffled, rumbling noise,
like a distant explosion. Beds shook as if they had been
struck with considerable force, and various articles of fur-
niture moved perceptibly. •« t ' J 3
The State Government is distinctly, favor*
able to a proposal advanced some time back
that an effort should be made by the. States
and the Commonwealth to arrange a special
the var!«..'T ■*. *7T tourist trip for American farmers through
SiSST* A ° 3t,,lia " Sljt “' ">«■ - view to inducing th. visitor, to
eventually make their homes in Australia.
farm^ t for r il e |«.| C,e lT “ nderStanding l,ere - We believe in “mixed ’*
•arming tor Australia, but not too mixed.
Alarmed Wife: “Why, whatever is the matter?”
More-or-less-cool Husband: “ Oh, it’s only just
some more of that confounded Sydney weather.”
Mr. T. J. Hardy, who has resided some time in
America, entertains a favorable opinion of the
ultimate success of Jewish immigration to new
countries. In Australia, concluded Mr. Hardy, the
Jew would prove an excellent citizen.
Apropos of this, Hop’s Understudy submits a design for the new
capital city, for which lie makes no charge whatever.
CARTOONLETS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
Trade Marl
AND
m
r
HS
Outdoor Workers
Cooling
Refreshing
Thirst Quenching
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Knighthoods run in the Tait family. The
father of Thomas, lately of the Vic. railways, is
the knighted Chief Justice of the Superior Court
of Montreal, Canada.
Things have been moving lately. Not
only is there a Clerks’ Union in N.S. W., but a
member of it has just been elected president of
the Sydney Trades and Labor Council.
Another historical Sydney house came
under the hammer last week —Carthona, at Dar-
ling Point, built by Surveyor-General Thomas
Livingstone Mitchell, the explorer. He died
there in 1855.
E. H. Arundell, for over 20 years
publisher of the Brisbane Courier, died at
Eumundi (Q.) the other day. 111-health drove
him off the Inky Way about a quarter of a cen-
tury ago, and he fled to “the land ” to save his
life.
A Perth Labor daily is now definitely
arranged for, and “Milky White” Emerson,
present editor of the Westralian Worker, is
tipped as the man to sit in the uneasy chair.
Emerson has been doing some first-rate work on
the goldfields.
At a recent “ Men of Kent ” spree, which
was mostly a glorification of Henniker Heaton,
George Reid told the yarn that once, when 'lie
was feeling sorrowful and remarked to an audi-
ence that he supposed he would have to die some
day, a cheerful voice from the back called up—
“ The fat will be in the fire then, George, won’t
it?”
The late-lamented Bent would probably
explode if he knew how the inmates of the
Loafers’ Club, as he called Pentridge Gaol, spent
Boxing Day. They were treated to a concert by
“local” artists, the homicidal negro King acting
as corner-man and obliging with a step-dance and
c<smic songs. The latest news about King is that
he has reformed. Also, the other day Percy
Ramage helped the force to arrest an obstreperous
resister. One may even hope now that John
Weary will do some work.
Tom Molloy, who 12 months ago had to
give up his old hobby of being Mayor of Perth,
having been defeated by a handful of votes by
R. P. Vincent, has resumed business at the old
address, Vincent having this time been defeated
by less than a handful. Now Westralia learns
that the favored front-name of its chief Mayor is
really Anstruther, hope of a coronation “honor”
having apparently killed the old Tom and buried
it in the back yard.
According to William Archer, who writes
about him in McClure’s, Ferrer, the Spanish
anarchist, whose execution continues to shake up
the old decrepit kingdom, knew something of
Australia. He and his wife—they were a very
inharmonious couple—had three children, all little
girls. The wife took the youngest away with her
to Russia. There she drops out of the record.
Ferrer brought his other two girls, Paz (Peace)
and Trinidad (Trinity), to Australia in 1896, and
placed them with his brother Jose, a market-
gardener at Bendigo. Then he returned to Spain,
but visited Bendigo again in 1898. McClure’s
Magazine gives a photographic group, taken in
Bendigo, of the twoFerrers, with Jose’s wife, and
the two girls, Paz and Trinidad. At a later time the
girls returned to Spain. One of them is an
actress; the other works at a bakery, and sympa-
thises with Ferrer’s politics. Ferrer’s domestic
life seems to have been very rackety; but even
the bitterest of the ladies with whom he dallied
declares that he was executed without a shadow
of justice.
William Younger, who figures among the
latest batch of baronets, will in due course be
raised to the beerage. The name Younger spells
brewery. W. S. Gilbert, in his Bab Ballad days,
wrote "a ditty with the refrain of “ Alsopp,
Younger and Bass,” the three mightiest beer-
makers of Britain. At that time there wasn’t a
title in the three families, nor had even the
original Guinness got a handle to his name. The
beerage was not yet an accomplished fact. But a
lot of Basses, Guinnesses and Alsopps, with their
identities concealed under new family names, are
presenting themselves at Court these times; and
presently the Youngers will be changing their
moniker too.
W. F. Monypenny, over whom much
melted butter has been spilled lately, mainly
because he has been chosen as the bio-
grapher of Beaconsfield, had his biggest
journalistic job in Johannesburg. His
editorship of the one-time daring Star
was, however, commonplace, and
under his rule the paper became
more and more the organ of “the
magnates.” The little notoriety
he did achieve was owing to his
hairbreadth escapes in getting
out of the town at the begin-
ning of the war —in which un-
pleasantness he afterwards took
some little part. Before going
out to the Star he had been
something on the Times, and the
Star job at £3OOO a year only
came his way after it had been
refused by others who had no
stomach for the buttering of the
wealthy Judasteins which its
acceptance involved. Mony-
penny’s appointment was due,
no doubt, to his connection with
the Times and the influence of
Moberly Bell, of whom he was
a protege. How all the well-
known politico-historians were
passed over, and he was chosen
as Beaconsfield’s biographer, is a
mystery, which the first volume
lately issued does not clear up.
John Liddell Kelly, who
wrote his name well up on the
Maoriland list of journalistic and
literary honors some years ago,
has returned to the Bubbling
Islands after carrying his top
hat and cigarette into most of
the big countries and some of the
small ones of this sprawling
world. First in London and
then in Scotland, the author of
“Heather and Fern” pursued
several publishers with book
manscripts ; but he isn’t enthu-
siastic about the results. “ Hence-
forth,’’ said the returned wanderer the day h 8
reached M.L., “ this’ll do for me.”
An Australian in London writes that much
motoring is making George Reid fatter and fatter.
Says the irreverent wretch : “ Our High Commis-
sioner is now our Highest Commissioner when he
is lying on his back.”
The list of New Year honors is, among
other things, a sharp-toothed satire on the Boer
war. Abraham Fischer, formerly Premier of the
Orange Free State and a sworn anti-Britisher, is
made a Privy Councillor; whilst De Yilliers
Graaf, of the same persuasion, gets a baronetcy
for his services to the Boer cause. On the other
hand, Dr. Jameson, author of the Raid that
started all the trouble, and leader of the pro-
British party in the S’African Parliament, gets a
baronetcy for being directly opposed to the other
fellows.
Here followeth one of the weird news
items which, without shame and without com-
ment, Tory newspapers such as the Melbourne
Argus do dearly love to publish :
The Countess of Aberdeen, who is taking- a keen inter-
est in the movement to improve and popularise the goat,
has become a life member of the British Goat Society,
which has done much in this direction since its inaugura-
tion over 30 years ago.
The Argus has a large clientele who love to hear
all about countesses, and the Countess, delightful
woman, returns the compliment by being keenly
interested in goats. How naice !
Book-Arcade Cole has had another birth-
day, and is now in his SOth year. No man is
more familiar to Melbourne eyes, for he is now in
the group between the well-knowns and the
famous. Forty-five years ago he commenced
business at the Melbourne Eastern Arcade, and
18 years later sat down on his present Bourke-
street address. During all that time he has been
compiling chips of literature, like the popular
“1000 Reflections of Irving Sayles” and the
“ Everybody’s Guide to Treating Warts.” He is
still producing those bits of useful information,
and is still flaunting the rainbow on the face of
his premises—symbolic, it seems, of his preference
for a race of many tints and colors.
The importation of expert Dyer from
America to run the Victorian Sugar Beet Factory
at Maffra, in Gippsland, is some assurance of suc-
cess. First, expert Maxwell made a thorough
inspection of the concern, and said, “Go ahead.”
Then Victoria’s American agricultural expert,
Elwood Mead, visiting America, picked Dyer as
the best man ; and the State got him for £lOOO a
year. Nat Levi was the first to talk sugar beet
in Melbourne. He inspired Murray Ross, who
built an immense factory at Rosstown, only seven
miles from Melbourne, hooked on a private rail-
way, and laid out land to grow beet. Then he
burst. The Maffra factory, on which £BO,OOO has
been spent, is a Government scheme. It had the
advantage of fine machinery, but it couldn’t get
the beet. What sugar it did produce was excel-
lent. Of recent years Germany has made a much
larger extraction of sugar ; and Victoria has now
to get that up-to-date information —which will
also probably mean more German machinery to
add to the already enormous apparatus at Maffra.
Humber, the English cycling pioneer, died
a few weeks ago. Forty years back, when he was
a working engineer, he saw a picture of the French
velocipede in the Mechanics’ Journal. From
this he prepared drawings, and constructed the
first modern English velocipede, of wood. He
dodged about Nottingham on it, and excited
much attention. Bit by bit he introduced iron
and steel. Orders crowded on him ; but, working
at first only by himself, he took a fortnight to
make each velocipede. Next he advanced to the
bike, with a high front wheel —and then the fat
was ’in the fire, and it has gone on sizzling ever
since.
PUTTING IN A WORD FOR JONES.
THE MISSUS: "How dare you bring him home
in that disgusting state ? Take him away I
Take him away!"
SUPPORTER: "Better let him in, missus — he’ll
come in handy on pay-day.”
Premier Weary is evidently taking a
fatherly interest in champion swimmer Beaure-
paire. On “ Bogey’s ” return from foreign parts,
Murray’s Government was understood to have
presented the swimmer with a substantial sum.
Now the big Premier is suggesting the paddler’s
appointment as chief instructor of swimming to
the Vie. State schools. This ought to make
“Bogey’’ very pleased with himself, and also
very pleased with the head of his State. As a
rule, Weary doesn’t develop the exertion to father
such a very sensible proposal.
Yictoria got better acquainted with
another she-man, or he-woman, the other day,
when “Jockey Jack” got
into trouble in connection
with a halter and bridle.
When the Beechworth gaol-
keeper went to open the
door, he was amazed to see a
young man instead of the
young woman he was told to
expect. The young man in
the grey suit explained, how-
ever, that he was the young
woman. For years she had
been horse-breaking, race-
riding, etc., and reckoned it
a better way to earn a living
than Mary-Anning. Which
reminds The Bulletin that
it received a letter lately from
Mrs. “Mountain Moss,” the
strenuous lady who, dressed
in male clothes, makes a
li v i ng i n the Gosf ord (N. S. W.)
district gathering ferns and
moss for export. Mrs.
“Mountain Moss,” the sub-
ject of a recent par, requests
The Bulletin to tell her of
a costume more suited to
her work if it knows of one,
and added: “Men have no
exclusive right to what you
call ‘ men’s clothes,’ any-
way.” And this paper confesses that it isn’t pre-
pared to argue the point.
Australia is threatened with a visit from
Baden-Powell, the military showman who is re-
sponsible for the epidemic known as Boy Scouts.
A South Melbourne ensign of the Order is
alleged to have received a letter from the stage
manager of Mafeking to that effect. Rumor
asserts that the Girl Aids are already laying in
vast quantities of powder, hairpins and other
munitions of war.
The Sydney Fire Brigades Board has lately
been without a chairman, Mr. Charles Bown
having retired. The Bowns, father and son, have
been connected with fire-fighting for 70 years.
The father, the late T. J. Bown, was superinten-
dent of the Insurance Fire Brigade of Sydney in
the early ’so’s ; he had been foreman to Tilley, the
fire-engine manufacturer of Blackfriars-road,
London. The Imperial Insurance Co. advertised
in 1853 : “ In case of fire, parties are requested to
give notice to Mr. T. J. Bown, engineer, No. 280
Ceorge-street, superintendent of the Fire
Brigade, in whose premises the engine is kept. ’
The son, Charles Bown, was superintendent of the
Insurance Brigade, a paid body, with the engine
house in Bathurst-street; and when the law
abolishing volunteer brigades came into force, he
was given the lighter job of chairman of the Board
of Control.
Little James Mirams, of the long ago and
the big umbrella, is a candidate for Labor
selection for Batman in the House of Reps.
There are 30 triers; but “Jimmy” is the most
ancient and best-known of them all. He was born
as far back as 1839, at Lambeth, England, and
arrived in Melbourne in May, 1857. After farm-
ing for a few years, he became assistant teacher
in the National School, Fitzroy; but he gave
that up, and started as a bookseller and news-
agent in Smith-street, Collingwood. While at
that he made finance a hobby, and wrote tons of
stuff for the Age and other papers, and that is
how he came to be founder and secretary of the
disastrous Premier Permanent Building Society.
Mirams had much obloquy thrown at him over
that because the P.P. smashed about the first, and
people didn’t then know what smash really meant.
If it had gone 18th or so, Mirams would have pro-
bably got a monument or a drinking fountain or
something for his honesty.
The Elsternwick (Melb.) Cricket Club
recently captured a donation from R. S. Smytho
under circumstances connected with the waybaek
times when he was graduating as a journalist for
the profession of showman. The secretary of the
Elsternwick Recreation Reserve, which was
originally a waterhole, suggested that R.S.S.,
having prospered in the business of providing
recreation for the public, would rejoice in the
opportunity to assist the cause at Elsternwick.
The humor of the idea appealed to the old show-
man, for he coughed up five golden guineas and
put his reason for the indiscretion in a letter :
Exactly 50 years ago I was editor and proprietor of the
St. Kilda Chronicle, which circulated in Elsternwick,
where many of the subscribers were market-gardeners.
I am afraid that not a few of those good
people were attracted by the title of a Ger-
man novel which I published weekly entitled
“Flower, Fruit and Thorn Pieces.” As Richter’s delight-
ful story had nothing whatever to do with the
secrets of floriculture or horticulture, I feel that some
compensation is due to the athletic descendants of honest
folk who doubtless took the Chronicle expecting to find
useful information in it about vegetables. Therefore I
have much pleasure in forwarding my jubilee donation to
the funds of your cricket club.
The fact that St. Kilda had its own local news-
paper 50 years ago is almost as forgotten nowadays
as the fact that Smythe learned the art of adver-
tising in the high school of journalism.
PAPA'S POINT OF VIEW.
TEACHER: “ Give me the navies of the two
Destroyers that have just come to Australia .”
PAPA'S JOY: "Fisher and McGowen, sir.”
TIT FOR TAIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The list of “ honors ” gazetted on the occasion of the
New Year includes a knighthood for Mr. Thomas Tait,
late chairman of the Railway Commissioners of Victoria.—
A mazing news item.
The knights of old wore shining steel
Upon their chests and backs ;
In armor cased from head to heel
They waved a battle-axe,
And sallied forth to slay their foes ;
Or, if they smote in vain,
Then they themselves, with upturned toes,
Were numbered with the slain.
’Twas tete for tSte, hard blows for blows,
In Coeur de Lion’s reign.
A knight now puffs a fat cigar,
He wears a suit of tweeds,
And in a special dining car
Luxuriously feeds,
Whilst travelling around in state
To view some battle plain,
Where men and women met their fate
Through riding on a train.
A knighthood is a tit for Tait
In new King George’s reign.
Sir Thomas Tait! Let whistles sound,
And engines blow off steam,
Till dead men lying underground
Turn in their sleep and scream 1
Let chapel bells a chorus ring,
Whilst spectres clothed in white
To widowed wives the tidings bring,
And ravens in their flight
Croak dismally—“ God Save the King
Who made T. Tait a Knight! ”
VICTORIA.
O.K.
THE JAMBOREE AT JAMBEROO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Great satisfaction has been expressed at Jamberoo on
receipt of the news that William Cullen, Chief Justice,
has been knighted. William Cullen is a native of Jam-
beroo. —S. M. Herald.
There was joy at Jamberoo
When the gladsome news got through,
And the jovial Jamberoojims were delighted ;
And the Mayor and council said :
“We must paint the city red,
For Bill Cullen, an old towney, has been nited !”
Jamberoo went on the spree —
’Twas a joyful jamboree,
And libations by the hundred were recorded . . .
But the Mayor and council said,
As each nursed his aching head:
“ It’s a dashed good job Bill Cullen wasn’t lorded 1 ”
N.S.W.
O. C. C.


m
m
m
-■ ' *
% =
r o.
mz*m* # *■>" m
■ ** ' V
&
m m*
v
m
mmm
rate
- v'
#33
m
zvm,
m
; i
m
vm
\:
-
m
m
si
1&
■
in
4'* |
||ps| |
SWWv NJp<
**>■!
*2pF
x^»B®iSH?£ s ‘ : ‘
i
*• •>-, ? *
% <'
H
%• •
\ ¥ vj» •* .
vWS*
% ? k>
&S 3
>•**
m<m
mm
■X--S’Y#k
4
H
m
m *k\ * |
i!
a
m
Mm
% 11
**
<Ts:#
■
« ; 1
:?X
*
£i
m
<■»::■/,
m
M
mm
£ ‘vJt- !
1
I
if
i
Vx
m
\> * m
m
~ i ■*
'-<vyc^:-
H
li
H W *
c.;**:-: : : : : ; :v>: :
ft" v 1
• m-. : * i ji
mm * -■■ *k J
m
i * '< -
9l
Pi
I
m
m
&**:*:s
1
H
s*s
ti
is
is
4rP
m
*+\
* i> ■ *
a
«
$BB
M
«
1
1
m
m
M
i I
V
p
mm
X %
/» •> •
il
f. • •':••• *
i;: : "• *=•• ▼
p*r ?
-
mm
m
m
mi
- ■■■%«*'P':
/• >^c*. v i
Hi
m
«: .•:*»:-^:v:-:*:-.-;^ .
& i<
'S&N* : x
'SW:.f:vi:
? y<"v <'. v
t^rnm
* ••••• • W-^Xv;:
AUSTRAL” SUITS.
Since 1868 we have builded on cut, finish, quality and wear. We pay carriage on all orders throughout Australia. We quote 635.,
705., 755., 845., 905., 955., and 1055., for “ Austral ” Suits to Measure, and will be pleased to send you Self-Measurement
Form and full range of patterns.
GOWING BROS., Pioneer Distributors Australian Goods,
486, 488, 490 George Street; and 7,9, 11, 13,15 &17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


hg
CHERRY BLOSSOM is the Boot
Polish you will eventually use,
so why not start right away to
experience its goodness ? There’s
nothing to be gained by delay,
and every reason for prompt
action. Cherry Blossom Boot
Polish is sold in 3d. and 6d. tins—
Black and Tan—the largest on the
market at the price. If you have
any difficulty in securing it, write
direct to us, and we will see that
you are supplied immediately.
Managing Agents for Australia :
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
There is no place in the world where there
are more sudden and extfeme changes in tempera-
ture than in Australia. We often experience a
climate of three different seasons in one day, and
the result is that numbers of people contract a
cold in the stomach and bowels, which causes
great pain and suffering. There is nothing that
will relieve this suffering so quickly as Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine in the world to cure
bowel complaint in all its forms. It is a sure cure
for diarrhoea, dysentery and colic, and has never
been known to fail.*
ft
<2
mm
RE
DENVER’S
SPECIAL
ELASTIC
TRUSS
permits full ac-'
tivityin safety.
No irritat i n g
springs. Cool
and comfort-
able. We fit
you exactly.
oenyer
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double.
DENVER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts,
GEORGE ST. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
281
POLITICAL
POINTS
SECURELY ANCHORED.
Unless they had national ideals which rose above local
interests it would be impossible for this great continent
to take its place among the nations of the earth as it
should. —Prime Minister Fisher.
Defence Minister Pearce favors an aero-
nautical course in connection with the Common-
wealth army, and wants to set up a school for the
training of airmen. Thus at last there is goipg to
be some meaning in the command to Australia to
“Awake! Arise /”
Victoria has now 2200 motor-bikes and
1600 motor-cars registered, of which about two-
thirds are owned in and about Melbourne. New
cars are coming in at the rate of 120 a month, and
cycles at the rate of about 100. Heaven only
knows how big the trade will need to grow before
it is judged big enough to be worth collaring for
Australia, instead of being passed over to the
foreigner.
Sydney Telegraph of January 5 gave
Port Darwin considerable of a testimonial as
Australia’s leading naval station. It showed it as
a large and well-sheltered inlet, not too easy of
entrance by those who don’t know the way in;
but with a great stretch of water, varying from
36ft. to 114 ft. in depth at low tide. Add to these
advantages that it is an unpeopled sort of place,
where land for docks, fortifications, etc., can be
acquired cheaply ; that it looks straight out upon
China and Japan, and is the place above all others
from which to intercept an Asiatic squadron ; and
that it isn’t badly situated in the case of a hostile
fleet approaching via the Red Sea, and Port
Darwin has points about it.
Join the Amy
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. It
gives speedy relief whenever applied to a burn,
blister, bruise, or a pain or sore of any nature.
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Elwood Mead’s mission to the ends of the
earth begins to yield a crop : One recent day’s
mail brought Victoria news of coming settlers
from Scotland, England, Alaska, California, the
Transvaal, Vancouver and elsewhere. Ihe
Alaskan was a lady who proposed to bog into
the ploughing and fallowing industry, and her
chief reason for coming is a desire to “live under
the socialistic conditions of Victoria.” The good
woman had evidently not heard of the dreaded
tiger that George Feed tried to slay.
It is worth noting that the British House
of Peers will be quite a democratic body com-
pared with the property-elected Upper Houses of
Victoria and Tasmania when Asquith’s reform
scheme gets through. The idea is that the
British Upper Chamber shall not be allowed to
hold up a Money Bill of any kind for more than
a month ; if the Commons pass a graduated land
tax measure, for instance, and the Lords hesitate
more than a month before passing it, it shall pass
without their consent. Any other Bill the Lords
may reject twice only; when the Commons passes
it the third time —which must be two years after
the first passing—it is to become law with or
without the Lords. Out of their powerful ad-
miration for British institutions will the various
Australian Houses of Landlords go and reform
themselves likewise? Or will they and n British
institutions ?
The S. M. Herald last week gave some
space in its financial column to the remarks of a
certain Dr. Murray, chairman of the Maonland
and Australian Land Cos. Orating in London
against the Federal progressive land tax this
gentleman knocked hard at the front door of his
waistcoat and said :
Australia is badly in need of the LARGE CAPITALIST.
And the Herald actually wasted some of its
valuable space on this British shout against closer
settlement. What we need is the large capitalist I
Well, we have got him in his biggest form in the
Northern Territory, and that place is progressing
so fast that if it ran a race with a tombstone it
would win for certain unless the tombstone was a
young one carrying a lightweight inscription.
Says Melbourne Age (3/l/’ll) :
The cheery and uncomplaining acceptance of compul-
sory military and naval service by the people of Australia
goes far to prove them one of the most patriotic races in
the world. . . Evidence there is in abundance to show
that Australians generally are proud and glad of the
opportunity to do their duty.
Whether Australians would or would not be proud
and glad of the opportunity to do their duty
doesn’t so much matter. The point is that they
are not being given a chance to do it; and, up till
now, the majority of them have not made any
audible row about the lack of opportunity. The
fact of the matter is that compulsory military
service, like the frequent lOU, is being passed on
to the kid; and when the Age pats the adult
population of Australia upon its collective back, it
does so because that adult population has cheer-
fully and uncomplainingly accepted compulsory
service on behalf of a number of infants.
Sammy Moore, who was about the best of
Wade’s poor Ministerial bunch, has been provided
for; and young McDonald, who beat him by
about a dozen votes or so, no doubt feels easier.
Moore’s new and very easy £IOOO-a-year job is on
the N.B.W. Western Lands Commission. Early
this century N.S.W. gave up trying to handle
the Far West lands through the Lands Depart-
ment in Sydney, and passed the work on to a
Commission consisting of C. J. McMaster
and Robert MacDonald, who had been sur-
veyors and Land Board Chairmen, and
Hugh Langwell, who had been a book-
seller at Bourke and a Labor M.P. The
country is now mostly leased for long terms, and
the Commission has so little to do that Mac-
Donald has been for a couple of years past Under-
See. for Lands, a-nd paid by that Department; but
evidently the wires were pulled, and, instead of
the Government abolishing one unnecessary billet
and saving one salary, the public pocket will be
dipped into for an extra thousand a year.
The Tory papers have been asking Aus-
tralia to consider what dreadful people these low-
class foreigners are who have been causing the
anarchist troubles in London ; and the Daily
Telegraph had a cartoon in which J. Bull
counselled Australia to adopt measures to
bang the door on them. Either J. Bull
or D. Telegraph has had a strange lapse of
memory. Australia has adopted measures to
bang the door on anarchists and other un-
desirable low-class foreigners ; and the row
that the D.T. and the other Tory publica-
tions and politicians made about it was disgraceful.
Probably they have forgotten the Petriana perjury
—the lie which they worked up to throw discredit
on the very measure which they now describe as
so very desirable. Still, this is an old trick of the
Tory. To-day he curses a measure and tells of
the disaster it will produce, and to-morrow he
starts : “ Events have fully justified the so-and-so
which 10 years ago we succeeded in carrying into
law in the face of the bitter opposition of the
Labor party.”
Says Sydney Telegraph, apropos the
scrimmage in London with alleged anarchists :
England has lately woke up to the necessity of taking
more stringent measures for preventing foreign anarchists
from taking advantage of her free institutions ; but the
recent legislation, passed with the view of excluding
them, is evidently not as effective as could be wished.
The Telegraph couldn’t be expected to know that
about the last piece of legislation passed by the
Balfour-Chamberlain Government was a strict
Aliens Restriction Act, which proved so efficient
that there was a frightful howl from the Daily
News and the Cocoa Press generally that it was “a
tyrannical piece of Tory Protectionist legislation!”
When Asquith came into power, the gibe that the
Act was the thin end of the Protectionist wedge
was thrown at him, and he suspended its more
stringent provisions by proclamation—a power
British Cabinets have used but sparingly. Thus
the present “Liberal,” anti-Protectionist Govern-
ment in England is almost entirely responsible for
the damnable state of affairs in the East End of
London, where filthy nondescripts swarm by the
hundred thousand, having displaced the original
inhabitants, who could at least speak in English a
protest against the cruel sweating of the loath-
some Houndsditch and Whitechapel employers.
Irish leader Redmond last week threw a
brick of size at the Ulster party, which demands
that its “ Protestant ” province be exempted from
the rule of the Irish Parliament. Ulster, he
pointed out, is really 44 per cent. Roman Catholic,
and 16*out of the 33 seats are held by Home Rulers.
“Protestant Ulster,” in fact, is very much a
casual figure of speech, the same as “Protestant
Holland,” where, despite all the traditions of
William of Orange, about one-third of the popu-
lation is of the R.C. way of thinking to this day.
“ Curse o’ Moses ” writes :
I have been trving to observe the commandment and
recommendation ‘(B. 22/12/10) to put not my faith in
Shem. I don’t like Shem pretty well, but why call the
Turk Shem when he isn’t? Shem has only about three
unmixed descendants on earth—Cohen, the Arab, and
the Syrian. The Turk is no more Shem than Ah Sin is.
Ido like to call men by their right names. The Turk
isn’t Japheth and he isn’t Shem ; he is just plain Ham—
Ham with all his curse, sitting on the neck of Shem.
Incidentally, Shem, in the guise of Cohen, sits
pretty solidly upon Ham, in the guise of the Turk.
The Turk, in turn, draws most of the shekels
that go to pay Cohen’s tribute from Shem as
represented by the Syrian and Arab. It will thus be seen
that the Asiatic mix-up is pretty considerable, as the
curse of Ham rests upon Shem and the curse of Cohen
rests on the Ham-Shem empire. At the same time it must
be remembered that this very curse of Cohen induced
Oh-r-r-istian England to save the curse of Ham (the Turk)
from the curse of Japheth (the Eussian)in order that the
aforesaid curse of Cohen, which is the curse of Shem,
might continue to be the curse of all Shem which isn’t
Cohen. An earnest consideration of the present con-
dition of the various curses moves Australian Japheth to
desire that the curse o’ Moses may be upon Shem, Ham
and all the browner sections of Japheth.
Hansard, issued on January 4, gives some
interesting information regarding the kindliness
of feeling which marked the closing hours of the
N.S.W. Assembly. Despite the very long and
trying sittings, members retained their life-long
opinions of each other, and exchanged such good
wishes as these :
Mr. Thrower : I repeat it, and I am prepared to resign
my seat if the statement is not true.
Mr. Levy: If the hon. member repeats the statement
50 times no one will believe him.
Mr. Price : [lnaudible.]
Mr. Nielsen : I will punch the hon. member in the nose
if he says that.
Mr. Price : I made no insinuations ; it was the Minister.
Mr. Nielsen : You dirty cow.
Mr. Perry (to Mr. Thrower): The hon. member lives on
the workers, anyhow.
Mr. Thrower : The hon. member is a liar.
Mr. Speaker (to Mr. Fitzpatrick): I ask the hon. mem-
ber to resume his seat. Sergeant, remove the hon. mem-
ber [hon. member departs accordingly].
Mr. Wood : Not long ago some persons interested in the
hon. member (Mr. Hollis) asked for police to protect him
against the tramway strikers.
Mr. Hollis : You are a liar.
Mr. Wood (to the Chairman): I desire to direct your
attention, sir, to the fact that one hon. member has
been challenging other hon. members to fight.
The Chairman : Order.
Mr. Burgess: The Premier was on his feet and the hon.
member for Waverley asked the Premier, “ Will you sit
down?’’ and then said “Sit down.” I then said, “I
would like to knock you down.”
And at 2 o’clock on Saturday morning, when the
House adjourned, the vicinity was full of whisky
and pulled noses, appeals to high heaven for a
merry Christmas and the curse of Judas, and
hurrah and blast—all of which died away until at
dawn no sound remained of the session, save
from a squiffy messenger singing a tearful love-
song in an outhouse. Now some blunderers, who
don’t know when their business is being done in
a good and seemly manner, actually want to take
some national business from this and other State
Houses and hand it over to the National Parlia-
ment.
SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES.
N.S.W.: “ Hullo, McGowen’ got the old
disease .”
It is an instance of the whirlmess of events
that an action should be taken in a court of the
United States—the home of trusts—to shut down
on a great European (chiefly British) trust. This
is mfde up of all the big steamship companies
that trade across the Atlantic—the Allan, Canard,
White Star and nine others. If the case is proved
against them they must either dissolve the trust
or be shut out of U-S. ports, and i they are
all shut out U.S. ports will look so blank that it
would be a relief to see Columbus turn up again
with his ancient caraval snaihng its way across
the pathless deep.
The collapse of the South Africans in
Melbourne in their second innings was one ot
those occasions when the game ra to correct over-
anxiety with a little of the right brand of the
spirit of self confidence, the right brand being
DC.L. A great captain in rallying the nerve
forces to victory is fc.C.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
“The adoption of a modern design will
enable us to build a Federal capital which will be
smokeless,Rustless, mudless, smell-less and slum-
less. . . . The streets must be as clean as. a royal
bed-chamber. Smoke and all gases will be com-
pletely consumed.”— King O'Malley.
No gas ! Good heavens, it doesn’t seem
with his policy quite t 0 tally .
When he’s built the city of his dream
Shall we nevermore hear O’Malley?
J
THE CRIMINAL OF THE FUTURE.
One of the worst dangers was the growing Sabbath
desecration. Any Sunday at Circular Quay they might
see men and women trampling underfoot the commands
of their Maker.— Speaker at Church Conference.
The Crown Prosecutor ( in 1940) : ‘ ‘ The
prisoner, your Honor, was observed walking
towards the Quay evidently with the nefarious
intention of inhaling fresh air; he then
maliciously entered a shop and purchased
fruit, and subsequently, I regret to say, was
noticed boarding a ferry boat apparently for
the purpose of spending a pleasant afternoon.
I press for a severe penalty as a warning,
your Worship.”
Victoria’s Rich Landlords are a sour and
disgruntled lot at present. New Year’s “honors ”
have been distributed to such as Tait and Hackett,
and still there isn’t one solitary knight in their
whole blessed House. Wrixon was the last who
sat there, and one has to go back about 30 years
to find a similar dreadful state of affairs. Even
tbs Assembly boasts two baubled persons—Pea-
cock and Weedon. And now George Y. hasn t
delighted to honor anyone, and there is no health
in anything.
State Statistician Trivett, of N.S.W., and
Federal Statistician Knibbs (also a N.S.W. man)
are unable to agree in their estimates of the popu-
lation of N.S.W. In fact, within two years they
have managed to establish a disagreement of
25,370 ; so in the 10 years between next census
and the one after they seem capable of establish-
ing a disagreement of 126,850. The present dis-
crepancy means that the State demands this year
£31,712 10s. more subsidy than it is likely to get,
and there is material in that fact for the aged
parent of a row. The State-h rights papers
swear, of course, by the infallibility of Trivett,
who makes the bigger estimate, and a lot more
people would swear by him also if it were not that
he is blamed for the amazing calculations upon
which the N.S.W. railway and tramway super-
annuation scheme was based. These were plainly
the calculations of a very sanguine man.
This shows the recent increase in N.S.W.
loan expenditure :
1907 . . £0 17 7 per head
190 S ... 1 810
1909 ... 1 18 9 „
1910 ~ 215 „
So, for every family in N. S. Wales, about £lO
10s. of loan money was spent during last year ;
and this year the amount threatens to be
larger. Presently, when a bad season hap-
pens along, or when the Cohens button up
tight in view of a threatened war some-
where, the loan expenditure will drop with
the usual sickening thud. This will mean that,
just when it will be hardest for men to get work,
the vast army which has been employed on loan
works will be thrown idle. If a State must have
an occasional drunk, and borrow for public works,
it might do some good by borrowing when ordi-
nary work was hardest to get. The tool Govern-
ments of the States, however, have their drunk
when ordinary work is easiest to get, and when,
having to compete most strenuously for workmen,
they have to pay boom prices for labor and every-
thing else, and thus get the smallest possible value
for their money.
Another absentee landlord has ‘ ‘ decided
to take bis capital out of the country ” —that is to
sa y —he has decided to leave the profits in the
country. The sc[usitt<ig6 concerned is Fire-
brace's Mercadool, one of the big properties
in the Walgett district (N.S.W.). A few
years ago it fattened almost as many law-
yers as sheep, and the Mercadool dummy-
ing cases made as big a stir as the improve-
ment-lease cases of a later date. William Freeman,
the unswerving Land Board chairman who Handled
the business, though he was nearly worried into
his grave over it at the time, is still living. Me
spends his retirement in the Harden district,
where he makes a hobby of afforestation.
YOU POOR THIRSTY SOUL!
How Does This Strike You?
A “Montserrat” Lime Juice and Small Soda;
but get the genuine “ Montserrat.”*
ICHABOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Times says that the spectacle of a detachment of
Guards sweeping the streets of London with bullets
because two anarchists were firing pistols from a house
from which it was impossible for them to escape, needs
more explanation than is yet forthcoming.^— News item.
In pristine days, at the maternal knee,
I (then a trusting child) full oft was told
Of hefty deeds performed on land and sea
By Britons bold.
At divers times I’ve read of them since then,
At great length in the Argus, in large type.
Told by “ Bleeds ” Fit.chett, on occasions when
The time seemed “ ripe.”
I ahvays loved those narratives of gore ;
Oft have I sat entranced while Spruce Myth raved
Anent the way in which, in days of yore,
“ The Flag ” was saved !
Must I now sacrifice my high esteem
For those who won the Hempiah ? I fear
That, like the baseless fabric of a dream,
’Twill disappear !
For, in each speech and book, ’twas made quite clear
That, when it came to ler.hal stoush, say four
Blokes of the Bulldog Breed had nought to fear
From sev’ral score
Mere foreigners ! ’Twas pointed out with pride
That, ere they’d own defeat, they’d rush to death !
(I’ve often read precisely how they died,
With bated breath !)
But lo ! illusions vanish in thin air
When two lone aliens hold a thousand odd
Bulldogs at bay ! My faith now needs repair !
0 Ichabod l
VICTORIA.
HAERJSON OWEN.


NICHOLSON’S
The Leading' House
For
PIANOS
STEINWAY—BRINSMEAD—EEURICH
The PicK of the World’s
TRULY GREAT PIANOS.
MIGNON
PIANOS.
MASON & HAMLIN
ORGANS.
NANON
PIANOS.
We sell on the Easiest Possible Terms.
We take your Old Piano as Part Payment.
Everything in the World of Music.
NICHOLSON S CO.
LIMITED,
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE and ORANQE.
\YIhfPREB"
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
-f <#■
V'T
life/
mark a distinct class of
smokers. They are chosen
by men who would not
dream of smoking ordinary
kinds. ‘ ‘ Winfred ’’ are the
cigarettes of quality for
men of taste.
Plain or Gold
Tipped
10 20
6d. 1/-
In handsomely decorated Tins of 10, 20, and
50, and in highly novel pocket Tins of 20.
Types of
British Manhood.
The “K.C”
smokes “Winfred” Cigarettes
because with all his keen judg-
ment he cannot detect a flaw
in their quality.
Obtainable, of all leading
Tobacconists, Clubs, Hotels,
&c., throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers
Ardath Tobacco Co., London.
m
V
' -
m
rfe
FARMER’S
£5/3;-Suits
for
£2/16/9 Net Cash
during the
Cash Bonus
■9l Sdlc 111
There’s Fashion, Perfect Workmanship and Splendid Wear in a
Farmer £3/3/“ Suit.
There’s Shapeliness that you look for, that will last.
Every Suit is cut by our Expert Tailors, and made in our Pitt
Street Workrooms.
The choice of Fabrics is a wide and varied one, embracing the
Smartest of English, Scotch and Irish Tweeds ; also a good
range of Marrickville Tweeds.
But the Great Golden Opportunity to secure a 10 per cent. Bonus
on a £3/3/- Suit from Farmer’s is yours until January 21st,
only.
Patterns, Tape and Measurement Forms, to Country and
Interstate Patrons, sent Post Free.
Have you had a Copy of Sartorial Psychology? The Guide
to Correct Dress ! We send it Post Free, anywhere.
FARMER’S,—SYDNEY.
m
m
111
■
The Stove that makes
Coo King a Pleasure !
KBW PERFECTION
OIL COOKINO STOVB
On Sale at all Dealers f or write direct to
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY., LTP.,
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.


AND yJK
GOOD LIQUEURS
MAKE BEST OF FRIENDS-
PETER F. HEERING’S
CHERRY BRANDY
£
&
Hello, deah 1 Surely you’re
not in such a hurry as not to
be able to spare a minute —of
course you’re going to-morrow
night—they say it’ll be awfully
jolly but this weather, isn’t
it simply dreadful ? Can’t l
persuade you to have a cup of
tea with me, I’m simply dying
to hear what you’re going to
wear! and its not good for you to
go so long without something,
you’ll have such a headache.
I’ve been rushing from
shop to shop all day and am
nearly dead, and for the last
half hour I’ve had one word
drumming itself upon my brain—
Robur! Robur!! Robur!!!
until 1 simply felt 1 must come
and get a cup. 1 always find it
brightens me up and makes me
feel ready to start right off
again, and it doesn’t affect my
nerves in the slightest. I’m sure
Robu r ’ s quite the best tea —
don’t you think so, deah ? Which
do you use at home ? The No.
J Grade ! so do we—mother
says its the most saving tea she’s
ever used and it must be if she
says so.
The Block Girl.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
S. Sydney, January 9, 1911.
My Dear Arint,—
One day last week, when the smotherly duster
was raging at large, I sat down in a shaded
corner, away from the flying avalanche of brown
paper, and the blown-away cats, and the dogs
that were tacking for port under reduced canvas,
and pondered upon the wisdom of our ancestors. I
have read that Sydney and its vicinity were once
densely-timbered country, but our progenitors
went forth in haste and cut the timber down, and
all the native bears struck the ground and were
killed. - Our progenitors built houses and fences
with some of the proceeds, and they used some
for fuel, and some they just destroyed by
making a conflagration. Now, if they had
thought to leave Sydney surrounded at a
distance of five or six miles from the G.P.O. with
a belt of tall timber a mile wide, so that the
smotherly fluster, with its brown paper and bolt-
ing galvanised iron, would be sifted through it as
through a sieve, what a different city Sydney
would be ! Of course, the tall timber might have
to he cleaned up ;ind the debris burned after
each storm ; but that wouldn’t be much trouble.
Going out on the Parramatta line the other
day I decided on the place where my mile-thick
belt of timber should stretch north and south from
railway. It is in that dreary locality where the
Old Dry Raven Hotel is—a dusty stretch with a
moonstruck cow in the foreground, and
a multitude of scattered dusty cottages, and an
eternal absence of grass, and a stormwater chan-
nel, and a great hollow as if the land had been
bitten by the Devil. It is impossible to respect
the ancestors who stripped that place bare of
timber and grass, so that it might rise up on the
wings of the southerly and throw itself at the
city like a fleeing wall of snuff.
Lady Poore leaves Sydney to-day for Hobart,
where she will stop until the Admiral joins her
for their joint and final departure from our ex-
travagantly large coast-line. He will return here
meantime in order to hand over the war craft to
his successor.
°P diamond luggage subscribed
for by Sydney society was handed to Lady Poore
last Wednesday at the Town Hall bv Mayoress
Taylor. A ring and a bangle, both beautiful.
About a hundred and twenty names were fault-
lessly written between the mole suede covers of
—not all women’s names, for subscrip-
ticms were sent by shipping firms and shipping
magnates. The list starts with the name of
Mrs. (Dr.) Geo. Armstrong, and ends with
that of Mrs. Arthur Scott. The effect of the
gold monogram, I.P. (all in one curly cue),
on the soft mole suede is bonnie. But the pre-
sentation of last week does not represent all the
souvenir material that Lady Poore will take away
with her. Some little time ago, on the occasion of
her silver wedding, a number of ladies piled silver
ware on Her Good Nature. Mrs. E. W. Knox
and Mrs. C. G. Wade aided Mrs. Allen Taylor in
the giving of the jewellery. Mr. Layton and
Flag-Lieutenant Fisher lent the ladies their moral
support.
Two more naval officers have done some unex-
pected trawling and netted each a nice girl,
whom they hurriedly grappled unto themselves
by the hooks of Law and Church. Com-
mander Luxmore, of the Challenger, gave
his friends the bigger astonishment. Evidently
his was a surprise wedding, as report
says the bride’s trousseau, the cake and
the bridesmaids were (1) made, (2) baked, and (3)
collected all within the space of one week. He
married Miss Eileen Maddocks, of Hobart. The
other wedding was that of Paymaster Thompson,
of thfe Powerful, to Miss Head, of a Melbourne
military family. The date of Flag-Lieutenant
T isher’s marriage to Miss Greene has not yet been
announced, but it is understood that their as-long-
as-ye-both-shall-li ve vows will not precede the
Prowse-Brady nuptials in February.
Commander Prouse is the vision that makes the
day worth living to the crowd that sports among
the league-long rollers where he and his bride-
elect get wet in Canadian costumes. In the surf
he isn t anything startling. It is when pacing to
the dressing sheds with his surfing undress hung
over his arm that he looks the prize advt. for the
Tailor and Cuttkr. He is all Piccadilly, from
his grammar-school straw hat to his beautiful
boots with the high lights on the toes.
The loyalty of Wellington (M.L.) society is
being severely strained. While talking to women
on the M.L. Government House list who visit
Sydney, I can hear the thin red line of attach-
ment to the Mother Country creaking like the
manila hawsers that hold a wind-thrashed liner to
the pier. The cause of the strain is Lady
Islington. Visitors say Things quite openly
concerning the quantity of courtesy and tact
she owns. Further, they wonder that the
Persons responsible for the selection of a man at
whom the National Anthem has to be played do
not take into account the qualifications of the
man’s wife to help him in his billet. His value
may be seriously discounted or greatly increased
by her attitude. Maorilanders say that the lady
in this case is frankly bored by her husband’s
lieges, and has little to say to any other than the
sporting set. One or two complain bitterly that
at dinner parties she has scribbled pencil notes to
the aides, to the ruin of the women guests’
self-possession and digestion. They think their
hostess is poking lead-pencil fun at them, when
probably she is only admonishing Aide Vere de
Vere thusly: “Mrs. Picton has addressed you
twice and has her ear trumpet up for your reply.
Kindly tear your attention from Miss Bi-chloride,
and show your afflicted neighbor some attention.”
On the other hand, if some of the guests had the
vast red arms and lack of humor of certain of
your Akenehi’s friends who dine with the Chelms-
fords and Dudleys, they would feel miserably
sure that the communication was on these lines :
“ For goodness’ sake look at Mrs. Blank’s elbows !
Wouldn’t they make splendid motor-cushions if
they were a better color ! ”
But the winter of Wellington’s discontent cul-
minated lately at the Islingtons’ official reception.
The time blazoned on the cards was 9 to 10.15.
It was an awful night of rain, wind and mud
(very like the numerous nights the rulers remem-
bered in their own country), and the number of
draggled guests crowded into a space that only
comfortably holds 400 would have got a theatrical
manager a heavy fine if the packing had been
done in his theatre. “ House full. Standing
room packed. Guests walking upside down on the
ceiling,’’might have been the notice put up at the
wet entrance of Government House. By the time
the guest who arrived at ten minutes after nine
had forced his way to where their Exes, were
being bored it was 10.15, and the first verse of the
Anthem was telling him and his wife and
daughter to go out into the wet.
In Wellington life is just one wet night after
another.
Miss Helen Brassey, youngest daughter of Vic-
toria’s one-time ruling lord, bounded into Society
by medium of a dance given by her mother at their
Park Lane place some six weeks ago. This
Helen was known to Sydney and Melbourne as a
jolly little girl wearing a sweater, knickers and
tunic. She would be about 18 now. Her father
was dotty over her, for she was the only offspring
of his second marriage, his Benjamina so to speak.
There are three daughters by the Brassey first
marriage, and one son. Last week’s cables told
us that the one son had fallen off his horse in
the family’s best manner and damaged himself.
Dolls are said to be taking the place of bears
and billikins amongst grown women in Paris.
Beautifully dressed dolls are carried by women to
the theatre; and their blue-glass stare shines
from the motor whilst missus is shopping, though
some women have them only on their dressing
tables. After this one would not be surprised if
the baby—the doll’s original—became fashionable.
It could not, of course, be left on the dressing-
table with safety—to itself. It would lick
mamma’s rouge and swallow her rings. The real
secret of the baby’s unpopularity is its restless-
ness and its ability to cry without aid —squeez-
ing its chest, for instance.
Another doll is of the carrier type, and therefore
useful. This has the appearance of an ordinary
child’s doll with flaxen curls, and is dressed in
print bonnet and gown, with a wide skirt. But
her feet are missing, and in their place is a flat
finish to the skirt, which transforms her into a
bag. The latter is shown to be a capacious doro-
thy bag, which draws up at the waist with a
string, the upper part of dolly being the lid.
This style of dpllikin is sure to be seen in plenty
at the next bazaar Lady Chelmsford opens. Per-
haps it is already known to bazaar workers.
At David Jones’s they have an accurate copy
of the cap worn by Marie Antoinette, which is
"coming in ” as the wear for the theatre and for
bridesmaids. The coloring of the pretty mob-cap
thing is calculated to make you gloat with joy.
It is of rust-of-gold, Romney blue, faded pink and
dull green. The Romney blue—an exquisite
shade—shows under tarnished gold net, on which
is imposed gold leaves in braiding. The pink
and green are given in narrow-ribbed ribbon. The
cap comes quite down over the hair —covers every
strand of it. Just in the front is a spray of
padded silk flowers in the four tones—gold, blue,
pink and green. One of the first bridesmaids to
wear this Mirie A. cap will be Miss Gladys
Gould, when she bridesmaids Miss Gore, of Carnp-
belitown, presently. • Miss Gore is to marry a
brother of Miss Gould.
What an awfully extensive thing—extensive
be the muff of next winter ! One
being made here for a friend of mine will measure
27 inches across. It is to be of black velvet
turned back, like a cuff, with royal blue napcloth.
Tassels of black and blue, elaborately worked up,
fall to the feet of the muff-bearer. In price, the
beauteous burden will run to guineas. In old,
cold capitals, the smart dame of to-day is said to
be using her muff instead of a carriage-rug.
British Australasian mentions the engage-
ment of Major Cosmo Gordon Stewart, D. 5.0.,
R.F.A. (temporary Lieutenant-Colonel, General
Staff), son of the late Sir John Marcus Stewart,
Bart., of Athenry, County Tyrone, to Gladys
Berry Honeyman, younger daughter of the late
J. H. Honeyman, M.D., of Auckland, and
Mrs. Bruce-Porter, of 6 Grosvenor-street. Miss
Honeyman is a niece of Mrs. (Dr.) Arthur,
Mrs. Bruce-Porter being that lady’s sister. The
late Dr. Honeyman, the orange-blossoming dam-
sel’s father, came in for a good share of the Berry
(Coolangatta) money when the wealthy old party
died some 20 years ago. He was in partnership
in M.L. with the late Dr. John Hay.
A friend, writing from Adelaide, mentions the
engagement, by Mr. Harry Rickards, of the un-
commonly handsome wife of a medical man of
that city. The lady is a daughter of the cele-
brated Lottie Collins, of London music-hall fame.
The marriage of Miss Hilda Izett (a younger
daughter of Mrs. Izett, of Waverley) to Mr.
Brodie, a Maorilander, is to take place at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, on Wednesday next.
Beauty winner in the West’s Biograph competi-
tion is a 16-year-old girl named Pearce, who is one
of the bridesmaids in “ Our Miss Gibbs.” She is a
dark girl with big, luminous eyes, and has been on
the stage for 11 years. First appearance must
surely have been made soon after she was
baptised. The procession of 19 or 20 filmed
beauties passed before West’s Glaciarium audi-
ence for the first time some three weeks ago, and
the procession of audiences has been voting
nightly for its chosen girl. The level of beauty
was fairly equal. Miss Pearce’s early youth and
saint-on-a-stained-glass-window expression prob-
ably won her the male vote.
All of which reminds me of a charming prose
sketch in an English weekly, apropos of beauty by
biograph :
A young man sat in tlie dark, facing the screen of a
cinematograph, and loved a film. He fell, that is, in
love with a girl projected smiling for a long, difficult,
hurried yet lingering minute upon that screen; a
minute “telescoped” (as they say of a long train
effectually shortened and closed up in a collision) by the
inordinate action of the machine, and yet stretched,
paradoxically, by the girl’s uneasy consciousness. She
had walked, with quickened steps, in vibrating beauty of
shape and action, through several scenes of a rose-
garden, in company with other girls who were fair-
haired and richly curled ; whereas she was dark, smooth
and very simple. And now she appeared (as the rest
did one by one) alone, enlarged, indeed colossal ; but the
cruel light, delving furrows in the lines of her smile,
doing to her what the difference of scale did, in
Gulliver’s eyes, to the maidsof honoratthe Court of Brob-
dingnag, was not able to spoil her extraordinary beauty.
The young man’s heart went out to her, to know her
to veil, to reassure her, to help her to flash away from all
those eyes, to enclose her sweetness and her slight em-
barrassment within his own gentle thoughts and memory.
He pursued the film to its lair in Italy. The
managers told him they never gave informa-
tion re the identity, etc., etc., but in this case
they would make an exception because the
original of the film had since died.
Mr. Asprev, conductor of St. Mary’s choir, goes
Europewards on a nine months’ vacation pre-
sently. He will mouse into musical matters most
of his time. The real musician must do such
mousing when he gets the chance. Asprey was
deputy-conductor of the J.C.W. opera season of
1901. His co-mates and brothers in melody will
give him a concert on February 22.
Musician Sykes got away on New Year’s Eve
for his short holiday. Dolores was amongst those
farewelling. He sent a wireless to his friend
Southwell when his vessel was near Port Mel-
bourne. A passing craft picked it up and for-
warded it to the addressee.
Dolores is still here, at the Metropole. The
sanctity of her holiday is constantly invaded by a
river of callers who won’t take “out” for an
answer. The singer, her faithful Vandour and
the pianist leave on Saturday week for M.L.,
where they will spend three months, and then get
back to Australia in May for a return season.
Nellie Stewart is a-moving on towards Hobart.
Her first public performance there will open the
new theatre.
The Allen Taylors have gone to their eyrie at
Leura. Extensive additions are being made to
that same hilltop home.
“ Salome,” the opera on which Beecham made
such a splendid loss, was sold out on its first book-
ing in England in 85 minutes. The censor’s ban-
ning had given it a great advt., and when the
ban was removed London rushed for thrills and
shocks—John Baptist’s head and the dance, with
the priina donna Aino Ackte (doesn’t that sound
like the family name of a Japanese or a mandril ?)
dressed in a few beads. Well, the fanatically
musical got all the shocks they wanted from the
music, but thrills were “off” in the representa-
tion of the story. A decapitated head, notan elim-
inated head, was what most of the audience
wanted.
The heaviest scorers these days on the variety
stage are the inventors of new dances. All styles
seem to have been exploited bar the humorous
topical dance. The other day, whilst looking at
some snapshots of Suffragettes being arrested, I
found one of a lady kicking viciously at the legs
of two middle-aged, frock-coated policemen who
were whirling round her, judging by the way their
sedate garments were streaming in the wind.
The impression of joyous movement in the picture
was delicious. Seems to me that a Suffragette
dance on the lines of that snap would just now
make any musical comedy, and knock London
right into the Thames.
“She was a blue-eyed, fair-haired, pretty
creature, and now she’s a lemon and got pleats on
her neck.” Thus Deacon Wriggleford (Mr. Wal-
lace) in “The Girl from Rector’s,” referring to
his stage-wife, Miss Florence Redfern. “Pleats
on her neck !” It’s enough to send every woman
over 28 to the masseuse and the beauty fakir.
“Interested” (Townsville) sends 10s. for the
Child Study Association, and is hereby thanked.
The pride of the prize convert —especially if he
is a colored person who has been much fussed over
by well-meaning missionaries—is a staggering
thing to contemplate. The Australian Aborigines
Mission held an open-air meeting recently in
Sydney, and Brother described as" “a
stalwart native from the Macleay River,” blew off
to this effect: “ There was a time when I was
wicked. You could not have found a worse man
than I was ; no , not if you had advertised for one.”
Novv, I guess that the Macleay River, on our
placid North Coast, is not the place to pick up a
really versatile, two-handed, 18-carat blackguard.
The opportunities for the higher branches of sin are
woefully restricted in such localities. Forgery,
for instance, must be a difficult crime to
commit on the North Coast. You can’t
forge a cow,, or a pumpkin, or a bag of potatoes ;
and, even if you could, it wouldn’t be worth
bragging about at a religious gathering or in a
thieves’ cookshop. Again, it would be hard to
grind the faces of the North Coast poor to any
great extent, -because the poor there are scarce
and far apart; and, when found, their counte-
nances are so deeply enveloped in whiskers that
you would have to grind them with a mowing
machine or a stripper harvester. It would be
hard to crush the widows and orphans of the
Macleay River on a large scale, for they are not
sufficiently numerous, and the crushing process
would be noticed and stopped- dead before it had
got a fair start. Piracy is generally under-
stood to languish in those parts; and arson,
murder, two-up and Sunday banana-selling
are rarely heard of. There are, in fact, so
few chances of going to law and accumulating
horsehair, Costs and sharks’ teeth that Mr. ex-
Pramier Wade would, I expect, go melancholy
mad were he to be restricted to that drowsy part
of the Ma State. Yet a boastful black person
comes down, and, in the midst of land agents,
asserts that he was once the record-breaking Com-
mandment smasher ! This pride isn’t Christian-
like ; also, it isn’t sense. Even an acknowledged
champion like Nero, Captain Kidd, or Abdul
Hamid would not be justified in putting on airs at
a mission meeting or a penitent form if there was
a land-boomer or a company-promoter present.
It is easy to imagine an urbane swindler touching
one of the boastful monsters on the arm in the
middle of a long speech and saying : “ Yes, yes !
Quite so ! 1 know you are all right as regards
atrocities and the cruder forms of crime, but, tell
me, what is your record in orphan-robbing ? Have
you ever done anything in that line ?” In sinning
we are all of us more or less specialists, and it be-
hoves no man to claim the general championship
belt.
Farmer’s (Victoria House) has issued its
“Fashions and Facts” for January. It is the
Summer Bonus Sale number, and every lady’s
home ought to have the comprehensive booklet.
From the letter of a Sydneysider, written in
Montgomery, in the old Kentucky region of
America :
Life in this country is very strenuous, and it is a com-
mon occurrence to have three or four murders per week,
mostly of blacks, who outnumber the whites. No white
labor. In travelling through the country, I notice that
all the storekeepers have iron bars on their houses and
shops. Bloodhounds are used to track criminals. Men
imprisoned for debt, and convicts work on the roads.
Australia is a paradise compared with this country. The
railways are horribly run. Outside of a few fast trains,
accommodation is bad. Blacks ride in separate parts of
the trains, and it is a criminal offence for a white man to
marry a black woman. Cotton is the main product, and
it is now selling-for 15 cents per pound, and only costs
about eight cents to produce.- There is a nice profit for
the farmer.
A Mosman friend tells me that at least one
tram-driver is doing his obscure best to relieve
Sydney’s attack of acute congestion. He was
making for the Milson’s Point wharf on the box-
seat of an electric-car with intent to catch the
(say) boat to the Quay. As the tram ap-
proached Milson’s, the Westinghouser, who was
driving with irritating slowness, confided to the
conductor that he intended to allow the ferry
to escape him “because the boat was always too
crowded that trip.” He was as good as his
threat, and the whole tramload—impatient busi-
ness people mostly—-had to squander seven
minutes on the wobbling pontoon. When a city
gets to the stage at which tram-drivers have to
save it from bursting, it is time to build a bridge or
something. Has anyone heard of the North
Shore bridge lately ?
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
A brief tale of economy :
At a meeting of the Broarlford (Vic.) Shire Council, it
was resolved that the officesof sanitary rate-collector, lamp-
lighter, inspector of nuisances, caretaker of the Botani-
cal Gardens, dog inspector and herdsman be amalgamated,
and that applications be called for one officer to perform
the various duties, at a salary of £lOO per annum. It was
resolved that the present officers be given notice to re-
sign.
Broadford is one of the wretched little municipal
deadbeats with which Victoria is so badly afflicted.
It covers a yard or two of ground, has 504 rate-
payers, and the income is about £l6OO. Another
£3OO is cadged from the Government. And out
of that amount have to be maintained the roads,
streets, footpaths, sanitary service, street lighting,
botanical gardens, town hall, town clerk and all the
rest of the pomp and town pump, including the
interest on the local debt. Yet Broadford sticks to
the dignity of its individual corporate existence,
and fights like a strong-armed microbe against any
scheme of amalgamation.


r r.
as
mm
ifWiliiSS
| ‘V ; v « f
»!
IHfOTW
•S^PH
■/ >/I&' r : * .v'<
5 */* ?*•
B
*-w;
“S- ~? <W-
&S i
trcSfeswS
ft s.
-'W/i
«Jf|
»
fSCTV-?
§i§
’if
-■v;
Ki>;
3 ?
1
11
R 5
K&S
ill
a
*
w
; i
Ml®
II
s*
I
m
m
®l
as
1:|8
V,
.
ST
H.I
if?
3Sr.
1
fcAVrJI
'•.'Sw«f^
SS?
<>»«
l®
m
***
wm
m
N.
l'-
825 Ife* ‘
<sSx^^S3^m
w
y
H
Sis
liplpp
'
IgAgfe
•••• :• •
1
@1 n (H
S
*
;' ' • y y y :;'•
s&
S 3
til
/<*
V
*1
5 c
wyyy
%
m
m.
m
'J& ! ;MZ % &’ USK-
/& > ■
iSgr r ,
sss
y ~ ,
p£g^gp£
I»S
:'y
mm
§gf
_ :y\ ’
mm
'm&m
tlf HI
yyy
ig»fii
- > :
%y:\ l
Vie!*?''*
mMf
ism
M
St
':m.
m&
v>-&0r
•.<y
y r .#- ,-^yy
•;>;
a^>'
&«<
M|||#iSS
111
illfii
x- : :
ym..
I*«tf-*JSS!K> y f?4A>
5 i
s@K*,
illw
Si
sy
ill
ssss
. -i l^'
:UlM,'
W
m
w?
COBRA FLOOR POLISH is as
good as COBRA BOOT POLISH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Polishes the
Floorcloth, too,
Till you say,
‘ For goodness sake
It’s like walking
On a lake 1 ”
Cobra Polish
Always use
For the floorcloth,
Boots and shoes ;
And this maxim
Think upon :
Chunder puts the
Polish on ! ”


A MISTAKEN NOTION.
There is a prevailing opinion that it is dangerous
to stop diarrhoea too suddenly. That may be the
case when an astringent medicine is used ; but
there is not the least danger of stopping it too
quickly when Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy is taken, as it is not an astring-
ent, and stops the diarrhoea by curing the disease
that caused it. As a rule, only two or three doses
are required, but in very severe cases a whole
bottle is sometimes needed.*
itm
Hi
IK
DUNLOP
- KELLY
*TYRES
are Solid Rubber Tyres,
that do not come off.
Being made of best Para
Rubber, they run for
years, ensuring you
comfortable driving
and freedom from
Coachbuilder’s Repairs.
Fitted from £.5 per pair.
Let us forward you our
Illustrated Price List
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney *
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and Christchurch.
DUNLOP
BHi
- . J-5
I
H
mm
mfmm
CYCLE
TYRES
• OBTAINABLE • ALL* AGENTS *
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 9, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The G.-G. Dudley was just one of the crowd at
the second Test in Melbourne, and half the reserve
rubbed elbows and swapped yarns with him.
British etiquette seems to let up on (1) fires,
(2) street accidents, and (3) cricket matches. I
understand that anyone is entitled to ask a
duke the following questions:—(l) “What
place is it that’s burning? ” (2) “ How’d it hap-
pen ? ” and (3) “ Who is that bowling ? ”
It was gravely recorded in the morning papers
last week that Governor Carmichael had “con-
tinued his inspection of the town of Portland and
places of historical interest. He visited the spot
where Edward Henty turned the first sod of Vic-
torian soil, and visited Burswood, the original
residence of Edward Henty.” It reads like
the dry official record of an eminent anti-
quarian’s visit to some permanent and unpro-
ductive ruin. And that is about all it is
—mainly through Victoria’s railway policy.
Portland, the deliberately-neglected town be-
hind the big, deep-water harbor, instead of
being a mere historic show-place, should be a city
of intense commercial interest, with docks, ocean
liners, warehouses, miles of streets and railway,
and thousands of people. Nature never intended
it to be a mere perch by the sea from which the
Hentys could look out for whales. Bad luck
seems to cling to the man or place that commences
with whales. Like Portland, Eden, in N.S.W.,
has had the worst of luck and been swindled out
of its rights for years, Then, of course, there was
Jonah, who travelled first saloon for three days
or three weeks, I forget which.
Gov. Carmichael must by this time be per-
sonally the best-known man in Victoria. He
goes everywhere and gets the hang of things in
the most out-of-the-way places. This last week
or two he has been looking around the south-
western parts of the State from Portland (where
the big snipping trade ought to be) to Casterton,
Coleraine and Hamilton, finishing up at Mount
Sturgeon, where Squatter Armytage owns the
earth. What the Gov. doesn’t know about the
undeveloped resources of Victoria and the poli-
tical tricks of its railway system, is not worth
knowing. But, seeing that the chief duty in life
of a vice-regal person is to say nothing which any-
body could object to, his information can never
be valuable unless it bursts forth in book-form
some day or other. And nothing of that sort ever
does issue from an ex-Governor. If he has kept
a diary he can’t publish it. He may be loaded
to the muzzle with facts and figures and logical
conclusions, but he is practically prohibited from
firing them off. In the ordinary course of busi-
ness a Governor presumably divides his time be-
tween doing and saying things which are essen-
tially useless, and meditating in silence on his own
official futility.
The New Year’s Day meetingat Flemington was
nothing of a social function this time. The Hill
and the Flat had their holiday crowds, but the
women in the grand stand were few and the lawn
never showed more than a dozen gowns on it at
once. As for the horde of men, they seemed to
be always in the betting-paddock or the birdcage,
except when they came streaming along to wit-
ness the fate of their fancies. In the empty vice-
regal pen a bouquet of roses lay withering on the
little table ; and on the terrace, between the races,
the most notable identity was Reggie Bright,
wearing his historic jaunty smile, flat-crowned
boxer, and a glad clump of red geranium in his but-
ton-hole. Journeying home, somebody remarked
that it was rather a bad day for backers. It must
have been even more disappointing for the women
who had sported new hats for the occasion.
The towering Grand Hotel contained a merry
New Year’s Eve supper party. For the occasion
the large dining-saloon was decked with flowers
and spread with choice food and drink. A band,
which occupied one corner, played gaily until the
stroke of 12 o’clock, when it left off with startling
suddenness, so as not to desecrate the Melbourne
Sabbath. The guests, however, stayed on dog-
gedly until 1 o’clock, welcoming with glad noise
good old Jan. and Feb. and Mar. and the rest of
the Calendar family. General Hoad commanded
one large section, which included ex-Gaud Mayor
Burston and other military persons. The woolly
Churches led another wing of the company. Mum-
mers who had almost played the New Year in, flew
along at the last moment to drink the infant’s
health. Pretty Sybil Arundale, the panto, “boy,”
brought her mother. The Gay Gordons and the
Beanstalks yarned with one another, and Manager
Meynell’s daughter Joan was visible with Oriental
bands in her brown hair.
The races at Hanging Hock drew the usual
multitude on New Year’s Day. That section of
Sassiety which retires to the slopes of Macedon
every year makes it a rule to motor or ride the
few intervening miles of good road to the pic-
turesque picnic meeting. This year Governor
Carmichael and his people went over from the
polished hardwood mountain cottage, which was
built by King David Syme of the Age for his own
use, and afterwards sold to the State as a refuge
for hot Governors in summer.
The farming people of the rich plains adjacent
to the Rock pilgrimage in myriads to the horse-
festival. People who work every hour in the day,
and every day in the year, knock off for the great
occasion. Crowds of them never see the races or
the racecourse, which is a mile or more away;
they are too busy eating home-made cake and
having a good time elsewhere. In order to be on
ha,nd they get up at incredible hours in the night,
milk the inevitable cow, fly through breakfast,
dress and pack, and, piling the whole family
into the buggy, drive off. Every boy takes his
girl—or, if he doesn’t he hears about it. The
wondering visitor to the sylvan scene has to pick
his way over acres of hilarious picnicking babies.
It i/a puzzle to me how they are sorted out at the
end of the long day.
The Hanging Rock Race baby has to take his
chance in the confusion, and occasionally he has
fine adventures. This year one waggon-load of
happy grown-ups suddenly missed a youngster.
After hurried consultation, they turned their
horses and found it a quarter of a mile back sit-
ting in the road dusting its doll’s frock. It wasn’t
hurt, and it manifested no surprise; in fact, it
seemed to think that being dropped on the high-
way at Nowhere in Particular was rather a good
game.
Melbourne is suffering a mild attack of earth-
quake scare. South suburbanites were roughly
jolted out of bed on Friday morning, and sedate
people flung convention to the dogs and fled into
the streets in simple snowy gowns and purple
pyjamas. At one fashionable suburban hotel, the
cats of both sexes are chuckling and whispering :
“I knew it was a wig!” The beautiful curled
thing that had kept the hostel guessing, at the
critical moment probably rested on the hair-
dresser’s block downstairs. It was not sent up in
time for the early-morning outing.
A girl who loves excitement moans because she
slept right through the earthquake alarm and sub-
sequent excursion. Weeks ago she felt a slight
earth tremor, but could find no confirmation of it
in any of the local papers. (Every earthquake
has to be confirmed before Sassiety will recognise
it.) One day lately, whilst hunting through a
file, she chanced on a telegram from Sydney re-
porting a remote shiver. It coincided exactly
with the ’quake she had discovered for herself. A
joyous maiden then went forth and proudly pub-
lished the news. When she was informed that
she had slept right through the moderately violent
one, she almost cried. You see, she is the owner
of a lovely blue silk kimono.
Paris reports two earth tremors at Moulins in
the first shaky week of the New Year. The news
must have gladdened the hearts of English wow-
sers. It is something to see the wicked French
thoroughly shocked for once—even if it is only by
an earthquake.
The deadly hatpin went near to “dowsing a
glim ” or “ closing a peeper ” in the genial dial of
barrister O’Hara Wood the other morning. Wood
sometimes acts as referee and timekeeper at Mel-
bourne amateur boxing competitions, so the sport-
ive language of the ring naturally suggests itself.
It seems that he was riding in a ’bus, when the
young woman on his left turned her head casually
and speared him right in the middle of the nose.
Had he been looking for trouble in her direction
the weapon would doubtless have landed in his
eyeball and made him the Cyclops of the Victorian
Bar. For the moment he thought he had burst a
blood-vessel. Gore gushed forth into the ’bus,
stained his collar, and painted his handkerchief
red when he dabbed it on the wound. Mean-
while the angel of the hatpin preserved a vin-
dictive silence. She had no sympathy to offer or
apologies to spare. She was angry. The victim
had unconsciously revenged himself by spurting
some of his vital fluid on her frock, and her
manner during the rest of the journey suggested
that she thought of suing him for damages.
There happened a Reading of Plays last week
at the Toorak humpy of the Blamire Youngs. It
was a first instalment of such readings, and at
the future meetings any budding dramatist of the
band who has a play about him may get it off his
mind under the most soothing and sympathetic
conditions. On this occasion Hugh McCrae read
a satire written by Blamire Young, and Ted
Dyson read one written by himself. The audience
sat in the dusk of a verandah and drank the wit
and wisdom with their ears.
The Blamire Young production was a delicate
bit of satire on, “ Art for Art’s Sake.” A citizen
who began his career with dabblings in Art has
wisely given up easel and palette and gone in for
the hay-and-corn business. When the curtain
rises, the artist, now buried in the comfortable and
rotund husk of the prosperous corn-dealer,
is seeing his two small girls off to a party.
They beg him to draw them a picture, “like
you used to, Daddy! ” Daddy hurries them
off ; but when left alone, dreams over
old artist days and has a severe nightmare. He
is painting a masterpiece—“ The Bread of the
Children.” To get the right effect, he has
starved his wife into consumption and death.
He is now rabidly completing the picture. A
loaf of bread tempts his shivering, starving
daughters. “Touch it! No, indeed ! I chose that
loaf from a hundred for its warmth of coloring ! ”
He implores his children to bear up for “Art’s
sake.” When the picture is painted - they can
have bread. “Cry ! Go on crying ! That is ex-
cellent—just the right effect ! ” And he paints
on feverishly. “ We’re dying, father ! ” plead
the children. “Well, for goodness sake, do it
quietly!" He finishes the picture as the cold,
starving children die. “ What a pity !” he sighs;
“if they had waited five minutes longer they
could have had the loaf ! ”
The wife and daughter of manager Clyde Mey-
nell have been sports of Rumor, the fibbing jade!
In this case Rumor asserted before the ladies
landed in Melbourne that Mrs. Meynell was a
“confirmed invalid,” and the daughter “a
pretty girl of 20,” who was subsequently said
to be singing in “The Gay Gordons” under
the name of Miss Mabel Dark. As a matter
of fact. Miss Dark and Miss Joan Meynell
are quite disconnected. The former leads
the Heather Belles, whilst the latter, a pretty
brunette, is an ornament to the chorus. Also, the
latter (Miss Meynell) is not more than 16 or 17.
If she had attained the ripe age of one score, as
was first stated, she would seem too old to be the
daughter of her charming mamma, who, judging
from present appearances, was never an invalid,
“ confirmed ” or otherwise.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson sends a New Year greet-
ing from a snow-covered town in Austria with a
remarkably long name, which I haven’t space to
print. Both she and J.C. are having a great
time at the place, in spite of its name.
Secretary Ted Tait, of Her Majesty’s, who has
been indulging in appendicitis at Surgeon
O’Hara’s private hospital, is just about starting on
the high road to the bright land that is called
Recovery. Pretty little Mrs. Ted now wears a
less worried look as she motors away from the
Collins street mending-shop.
The Anderson co. to a man, likewise to a girl,
backed a 6 to 1 winner at Moonee Valley, the
other week. The gee-gee that played the part of
Kookaburra in “ The Winning Ticket,” and had
been named Jules before the event, was subse-
quently discovered to be “ pretty good over the
sticks.” So Jules was entered for hurdle races,
and at his second attempt the gallant animal won.
Thus perishes the old-established notion that stage
racehorses are invariably borrowed from hansom
cabs or hearses.
Just as ordinary mortals get about per motor,
so Her Majesty’s pantomime people do their
travelling by beanstalk. When Cook Kenyon
wants a breath of air, he rises to the moated
grange or the serrated terrace by bean-shoot. It
is done very simply. You merely stand on a bud
and the stalk shoots straight up through a trap.
Norman Lindsay is delighted with the sunshine.
Artist-like, he puts it this way : “It is good to see
‘ line ’ again—l saw nothing but ‘ wash ’ all the
time I was in London. And the white frocks
with the sun on them ! I never saw a white frock
in the Fog! Grey days are all very well; but
most of the grey days are really burnt umber or
invisible.” Governor Carmichael invited him to
the cottage at Macedon ; but after a few hours in
Melbourne he bolted for the family home at
Creswick.
Maorilanders in Melbourne gave a warm wel-
come and reluctant farewell to Education Minister
George Fowlds and his daughters as they drifted
through this city last week on their way home
from South Africa. The two pretty girls say they
had a splendid time travelling about on the train-
de-luxe, which took the party as far north as the
Victoria Falls and provided them with food,
shelter and all possible luxuries, including choco-
lates. They are to stay in Sydney for a few days
before they set out on the last lap across the
stormy Tasman Sea.
Draper Treadway, departed, had a pair of nice-
looking daughters, and when they married he
gathered his sons-in-law into the business and
made them partners. Tennis champion Dunlop
is one of the fortunate young men ; the other is
Jim Acton—a former man-of-law. Dunlop has
charge of the Colosseum, the monster place in
Prahran that deflects the flying motor of Toorak
down flourishing Chapel-street, when it shoots
like an arrow from the garage towards the haughty
chiffon shops of Bourke-street.
The Best lady has been having a sick-room
Christmas. Just when she had prepared for the
usual seaside flitting, daughter Dorothy—an
adorable bundle of pink and white dimples—did
an acrobatic turn and broke her leg. Then the
other sunbeam developed mumps and gastritis.
After that the Saratoga was skied and all paddling
declared off.
The habit of falling off things is hereditary in
the family of our late Governor Brassey. The old
man’s son and heir was hunting in Sussex the
other day when his horse tripped, and Brassey
fell, and the horse fell, and when the cable last
mentioned the matter it almost looked as if another
heir might have to looked for.
Behold how the highways are being opened at
Toorak ! The immense Ross-Soden castle hung
like an affectionate white elephant round the neck
of the house agent till, in despair, it was converted
into a hash turret. Then the ornate lodge at its
gates became a cottage for quiet-living paying
guests. Even then the grounds remained as a
burden to the widow lady who owned them. So
a dozen or more Queen Mary Ann cottages were
run up, and no doubt a dozen house fathers will
soon be there, tending the 12 separate gardens and
collecting snails by lantern light.
On Toorak-road, also, new areas for cottages are
being advertised. Como, the ancient, ancestral
home of the Armytages, has cut down its front
hedge and spread the acres of front garden before
the auctioneer’s hammer. A new road, with blue
metal heaped upon it, is planted where the drive
used to be. The big house huddles in the distant
background, and seems to shiver at the desecra-
tion. The ground is going like hot cakes. The
demand for the small, well-groomed cottage of the
newly-wed becomes louder day by day. These be
great days for the red house with the “art”
stucco windows, the 5£ x 6f lawn, and the rose
bushes of respectability.
Brief note from a Perfect Beast:—
I see that a woman on a Melbourne tram-car recently
earned herself a round of applause by tearing off her im-
mense hat and throwing it into the roadway. Of course,
she wouldn’t have done it if a young man had not first
set fire to it with a spark from his pipe. This shows how
useful a pipe can be. In every crowd I struggle through
I have to keep jerking my head like a prize-fighter in
order to dodge the protruding points of giant hatpins.
Time after time I have longed to withdraw the murderous
javelins, and, seizing the inverted flower-decked pail, hurl
it into the roadway for draught horses to dance on. Only
the absurd frequency with which policemen are met has
restrained me. The blazing-pipe method simplifies the situ-
ation. Henceforward I intend to keep my pipe in full
blast, and if a harpooned soiled-clothes basket gets in the
way, there will be a sudden call for the brigade.
It was the monstrous size of fair woman’s hand-
bag that struck Bill from Barramunga hardest
during this Christmas excursion to the capital.
The hobble skirt he was prepared for. A man tells
me that, shortly after Bill arrived, he heard the
remark jerked out of him in Swanston-street:
“Gorstruth, Bob, look at the matilda that tart’s
hangin’ to.”
The nippers of the Dudley family are suspected
of private-theatrical designs They went twice
within the first fortnight to, see the Children’s
Pantomime at the King’s, and on the second
occasion the eldest boy appeared to be rehearsing
a step-dance as he came along. The vice-regal
head of the household has, by the way, been twice
or thrice to the grown-ups’ panto.
Dr. Clara Stone is to take over the practice of
her cousin, Dr. Mary Page Stone, who was killed
recently in a bicycle accident. As a useful
memorial, friends of the deceased lady hope to
furnish a new septic ward at the Queen Victoria
Hospital for Women, an institution in which she
was deeply interested.
From London :
In a social way, Thelma Reid is the success of the High
Commissioner’s establishment, now that it has started
formal “At Homes.” She has papa’s geniality, and the
result is that the clever little thing with her baby com-
plexion, big blue eyes and golden-red hair, has been able
to persuade some of the stodgiest society dowagers that she
would rather talk to them than to anyone else in the world.
It is not only the girl’s tact; the larger half is real good
nature. Old Emily Soldene was at the first “At Home,”
among Claude MacDonalds, Vallanges, Buckleys and
other important folk. The Soldene wore a marvellous
grey fur coat and toque, and looked like a giant Persian
cat.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
Port Adelaide had its annual regatta on New Year’s
Day, and white-clad damsels concealed the dusty old
Port under a burden of champion hattery. Every craft
for miles had a cargo of Girl, and best-assorted breezes were
distributed free all day. The Hymettus, just in from
India, was the flagship, and its youthful-looking skipper,
Captain Innes, was pursued by an admiring train of the
aforementioned cargo whenever he ventured out of his
scupper. This Port Adelaide revel is our biggest water-
dance of the year, and President Cruickshank and his
minions had a strenuous day starting and finishing the
gO events.
Great and intense excitement! South Aus. has been
invited to send its Premier and his wife to help crown
King George.
The pretty Adelaide song-bird, Clytie Hine, took the
name-part in Schumann’s “ Genovena,” given by students
of the Royal College of Music at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
in London, last month—a large feather in the song-bird’s
crest, surely. The London critics combined to praise the
actinsr and singing of the Australian damsel.
Their Exes, and the stay-at-home daughter came down
from their mountain for the S.A.J.C. meeting at Mor-
phet.tville on Monday. Her Ex. was in a trailing garment
of soft cloud-grey ninon and a plumey hat; the damsel
was white-robed, with drooping lace millinery crowned
with the up-standing bow of the moment. The course
was trimmed with pink, blue, green, heliotrope, red and
purple, and the people who were the trimming included
the usual Bowmans, Lewises, Hawkers, Tolleys and
Smiths, with a Jones and a Brown or two.
That same day the Scots foregathered on the Oval; and
such a kilted company S. Aus. has probably never seen
before. It was an attempt to revive the defunct Scottish
celebration—Highland sports, with a Scotch concert
flung in. There were prizes for the best dressed doll —I
mean Highlander—for piping, and for dances. And,
hoots mon, it was a graand day. At the concert Georgina
Delmar and other professionals added some sane noises to
the piping and skirling confusion.
Souih Australia's one mythologjcikl beastle,. the Tanfa-
noola Tiger, has been snared at cyst, -after relieving the
neighborhood of hundreds of slreep. 1 At ’least the
animal’s lair has been discovered, and the police are
after the übiquitous clue. He was an agile tiger, for he
not only slew the sheep, but skinned them and hung the
skins out to dry. His operations were discovered acci-
dentally in the middle of a dense scrub, out of which he
had hewn three large pens. The bodies of 40 or 50*
newly-slain lambkins and hundreds of anything but
newly-slain decked the lair. The odor, which was not of
roses or of thyme, attracted some snipe-shooters ; and
that’s how this industry of several years’ standing was dis-
covered. Not a mile away from the spot an illicit whisky
still led the police a lengthy dance in the early days.
The Osterley brought back many meandering South
Australians, among them ex-Police Commissioner Madley,
who went to live in Britain, but found he couldn’t live
there very long; and the W. J. T. Clarkes, who squat at
Mount Schank, which is down among the defunct vol-
canoes in the south-east.
Same week Dr. Charlie Hamilton and Miss Hamilton
departed to look for Europe.
Veteran T. S. Reed, mentioned in this letter last week,
has run over to Sydney for the Science Congress, at 92
years of age!
Adelaide will shortly open its new City Baths in all
their tiled and metal-ceiled splendor, and there will be
nothing to touch them on this side of the earth’s waist-
belt. The Turkish bath department is particularly
palatial, with its suites of tiled and white enamelled
lounges and calidariums and tepidariums and such. Also,
there are swimming baths that the ancient Greeks would
not have sneered at.
Regattas have been sunning themselves all over the
local waterways. Port Victor had one, and 5000 of the
elect, holiday-making in that neighborhood, wore their
best complexions at it. The Allan McFarlanes had a
river Christmas party up the Murray, a five days’ trip,
and chased regattas from place to place. They caught
one at Goolwa and one at Milang—both of champion
weight, of course.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


SCHWEPPES’ Dry Ginger Ale.
Awarded Grand Prix Franco-British Exhibition, London, 1908.
\ most refreshing drink. “ SCHWEPPES’ DRY ” with a slice of fresh lemon makes the most delightful non-alcoholic beverage known.
AVOID IMITATIONS. SCHWEPPES’ DRY IS THE ONLY ORIGINAL.
Annual sales of Schweppes’ Mineral Waters throughout the World exceed TWO HUNDRED MILLION BOTTLES. .
Head Office: 49 PALL MALL, LONDON. V
No. I.]
THE DRINKS OF THE PICKWICK CLUB.
Mr. Pickwick , from the mail,
While the guard his horn is blowing,
Sa ys: “ Sam! SCHWEPPES' DRY GINGER ALE,
And look sharp! We'll soon be going!”


A. SAUNDERS’ ss® GIFT SUGGESTIONS
The Daintiest and Prettiest of Novelties in Jewellery, and so Moderately Priced!
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s. Solid Silver MATCH-
BOX, Nicely Chased,
5/6
Smaller, 4/6.
- A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EARRINGS,
Set Pearls and
Any Colour
Stones,
30/
Extra Quality,
£2, £2/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Diamond Heart
and Scroll,
25/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LL,KS, 12/6-
15ct Gold Links, 25/. Plain,
with initials engraved, same
price.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Best
Wishes” LINKS,
20/
loct Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Set
Green Tourmalines or Rubies,
21/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised
“Mizpah” RING, 17/6
15ct Gold 30/-
18ct. Gold 40/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EARRINGS,
Set Pearls and
Any Colour
Stones,
30/
Extra Quality,
£2, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, Set Parisian
Diamonds,
17/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/, 12/6,
15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Heart BROOCH,
Diamond-set,
17/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold 2-Bar Heart BROOCH, Floral
Design,
7/6
a. saCinders.
9ct Gold “Dinna Forget” F 'OOCH, Bell
and Chain Attached, 115/6
A. S . ,DERS.
9ct. Gold Bell and Chain
NAME BROOCH, 12/6-
15ct Gold, Zis/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Red, Green,
or Torquoise, 8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bar Buckle and Scroll BROOCH.
20/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Good Wishes” BROOCH,
12/G
15et Gold, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set Double
Opal Heart and Dia-
monds,
£4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, Diamond
and Red or Blue
Stones,
£2.
■iff.’ VI *U -VI
/'v \ *'\
U-Ci !3?ll
l*» » 5'
Xj*/
c *<•>
A. SAUNDiijKJS.
Full Jewelled, Accurate, Reliable,
£4/10/-.
Higher Grade
15ct. Gold ..
£5, £5/10/-
... £7/10/-
SOLID
GOLD
WATCH
BRACELET,
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT PIN,
Coloured
Enamel and
Silver,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT,
Set Pearls and Tur-
quoise,
32/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CROSS, set
Fine White Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 17 /<».
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Hunting Keyless Elgin
Lever WATCH, Chronometer Balance, Full
Jewelled, Dust and Water Proof Cases,
£6/10/.
With Extra jewelled, High-grade Move-
ment, £7/10/. Free Repair for 4 and 5
Years.
SOLID
£6/10/-
GOLD,
£7/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand Clasp
RING, 26/-.
15ct. Gold 40/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double
Buckle RING, 17/6.
15ct. Gold 30/
18ct. Gold 40/-
ğhgh
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Band BRACELET,
Embossed, Floral Design,
Safety Chain, 30/-
Riehly
with
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT,
Set Pearls and Tur-
quoise,
37/6.
15ct Gold, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold,
SCARF-PIN,
Set Pearls
and Red
or Blue
Stone,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Half-chased, Basket Pattern BRACELET,
strong Safety Chain attached, £3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires. £2/15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOCH, Set Pearls and
Coloured Stones,
10/6
g
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bar BROOCH, Any Name
Engraved,
6/6
HE J
m
/lord WAT
/ BETWEEN ft
\ U THEE WMi
mz?h
Ht ME. .AZSE«
WATCH i
a
ws
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold 2 Ivy-Leaf Mizpah BROOCH,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Bird and Fancy Bar BROOCH,
Set Cut Stone,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and '‘Forget-
Me-Not” HEART BROOCH, 7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Set Diamond
and i Rubies,
25/.
SOLID
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold
Open-faced Keyless
WATCH, Fancy Dial,
Perfectly Timed and
Adjusted,
£2
Higher Grade, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
GOLD,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 5 Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£3/10/.
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Seal
PENDANT, Amethyst
or Topaz, IU/ti.
SEND FOR OUR
FREE CATALOGUE-
IT’S FULL OF
OTHER BEAUTI-
FUL IDEAS.
Sk®'
JIIII'.WATCNii
between** 11
Me anoj;<c
THEE V
m
ARE
ABSENT
FROM
Hanot
A. SAUJSDERS.
9ct Gold “Mizpah”
CHARM, Set Red or
Blue Stones,
12 Hi.
A. SAuNDEKS.
9ct Gold NECKLETS,
Neat and Strong, Full
Length, 11£/G-
Heavier 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/. 15ct Gold, 20/,
-25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
SEND FOR OUR
FREE CATALOGUE
IT’S FULL OF
OTHER BEAUTI-
FUL IDEAS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold MEDAL,
12/6, 15/, 20/.
15ct Uold 35/, Sliver 3/6
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds,
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£B/10/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
INNA
0^
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold “Dinna Forget’
CHARM,
12/6.
Smaller, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LATEST STYLE SILK RIBBON GUARD, 9ct Gold Mounts and Shield, Extra Heavy Mounts, Single 20/-
Ditto, Double, to go Right Across Vest, 37 /6* With Shield or Buckle in Centre, Same Price.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, .Diamond and Red
or Blue Stones,
20/
SOLID
£3.
i
S©s!
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless WATCH, Full-
Jewelled, Hand-Finished,
£3
Extra Jewelled Movement,
£3/10/. Guaranteed. Free
Repairs for 3 years.
GOLD.
£3/10/-
JEWELLER,
>HPJCH &CIOCf(
k MAKER A
ĝ
hg
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station! SYDNEY.W.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
C ONSULT/Afc i


W'A*
“V
55
0
(hi
A«W
JrlfeN
'.u
Recreation for
the Children!
FOR children (and grown-ups, too) the Brownie-Kodak Cameras
offer endless enjoyment and wholesome, instructive fun. They
offer opportunity for the cultivation of love for the beautiful
without irksome, tiresome attention to detail.
Your boy or girl can quickly become conversant with the
delightful pastime of picture-making with the Brownie-Kodak. Every
operation is simple and sure. No dark room or previous experience
is necessary. It's daylight all the way with Kodak photography,
and it's interesting, edifying and fascinating from start to finish. Come
in and learn more about these splendid little Cameras, or write for a
free copy of the Kodak Catalogue, which furnishes complete details.
No. 1 BROWNIE, 5/-
Takes pictures 2jin. x 2|in.,
and has a carrying capacity
of 6 exposures without re-
filling. Weighs only Boz.
Price 5/- ; Postage Gd. extra.
No. 2 BROWNIE, 10/-
Makes rectangular pictures
2Jin. x SJin., and has a
capacity of G exposures,
without reloading. Only
weighs 13oz.
Price 10/-; Postage 9d. extra.
No. 2a BROWNIE, 12/6.
Takes 6 or 12 pictures
x 4|in. without reloading,
and weighs 21oz.
Price 12/6 ; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3 BROWNIE, 17/6.
Makes 12 quarter-plates,
3|in. x 4Jin., without re-
loading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 17/6; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2 FOLDING BROWSE,
21/-
For Pictures 2|in. x
and makes 6 exposures
without reloading. Weighs
16oz.
Price 21/-; Postage 9d. extra.
No. 2a FOLDING BROWNIE,
30/-
For pictures x 4£in.,
and makes 6 or 12 pictures
without reloading.
Price 30/-; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3 FOLDING BROWNIE,
37/6.
Makes 12 quarter - plates,
3£in. x without re-
loading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 37/6 ; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3a FOLDING BROWNIE,
«/-
The popular postcard size, 3£in.
x sjin. Has a capacity for 12
exposures without reloading'.
Price, with Single Lens, 42/- ;
Rectilinear Lens, 50/- ; Post-
age 1/3 extra.
No. 2 STEREO BROWNIE,
50/-
For Stereo Pictures, each 3Jin. x
2Jin., and has a capacity for 10
stereo exposures without re-
loading-. With a pair of Achro-
matic Meniscus Lenses.
Price 50/-; Postage 1/3 extra.
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating: Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
OOK FOR THE RED
■ i
WINCHESTER
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
On account of being manufacturers of fire-
arms as well, the Winchester company
are peculiarly able to know the best re-
quirements for ammunition. This partially
answers the question often asked: “Why
do Winchester cartridges excel?” The
rest of the answer is contained in their
large, modern plant and their extensive
knowledge of the firearms and ammuni-
tion business. Winchester Cartridges are
made for all makes of rifles and pistols
and always give entire satisfaction.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
hg
«s
miy
•' «& ii
a>«
i ? •
\\
\ •
a i
fV
> v
A
->
V ,
The Excellence of SARGENTS’ WEDDING CAKES
cannot be over-estimated. A proof of their perfection is dearly shown in the
increasing demand, not only in Sydney and Melbourne, but practically
all over the Commonwealth. Their superior quality is due to the select
recipe and the particular way in which they are prepared. Whatever design
of cake is decided upon, whether it be simple or elaborate, there is not the
least difference in the quality—each possesses the same deliciousness of taste.
Prices, which are quite moderate, on application.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3550;
Cafe, 1876; Catering-, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FOI - SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
SPRAINS AND BRUISES.
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment Used
With Wonderful Success. A Balmain
Resident’s Testimony.
“ Some months ago,” writes Mr. J. Burgess, of
Balmain, Sydney, “I had a nasty fall, severely
bruising the kneecap and spraining my wrist.
Having been recommended Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone liniment on a previous occasion, I had the
balance of the bottle in the house, and got my wife
to apply it, after bathing the parts with warm
water. It gave me almost instant relief, and in a
few days all traces of the accident had disappeared.
I really think the liniment saved me several days
of incapacitation.”
A sprain is an injury to the ligaments of a joint,
usually the wrist or the ankle, by accident or over-
straining. Sprains are usually attended with much
pain and swelling of the part, and sometimes pro-
duce fainting and vomiting. Comstock’s Nerve
and Bone Liniment is an ideal remedy for sprains,
and should be applied frequently and well rubbed
in until all traces have disappeared. As sprains
are one of the most frequent accidents, every
household should contain a bottle of this valuable
liniment for this purpose if for nothing else.
Sold by all leading chemists and storekeepers,
price 2s. 6d.,'or will be forwarded by post at same
price by the W. H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt
Street, Sydney.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The second Test match was as full of variety as
a girl’s glory-box, and its finish as sensational as a wed-
ding where the bride says “I won’t.” The Springboks
* needed to make 170 in their second innings, and it looked
a sure thing for them. But Whitty had got over his boil
trouble, and Cotter was in tip-top form, and Nerves pre-
sently took a hand and bowled from both ends. The
Africans played the ball with their legs in a most un-
accountable fashion. Strieker, l.b.w. to Cotter, 0 ; Sher-
well, b. Whitty, 16; Nourse, l.b.w. to Cotter, 2;
Faulkner, c. Kelleway, b. Whitty, 8 ; Sinclair, b. Whitty,
3 —that was the way they went, and at 4 o’clock the record
was five wickets for 62. They still had a chance ; but
the Australians had one too, and knew it. They were
fielding now as they ought to field. The placards in the
city told of the disaster, and crowds tore down to the
ground, realising that if the finish catne that night it
would be worth seeing. It came quickly. Llewellyn,
with 17, was the only one besides Sherwell to reach
double figures. With a hopeless, paralysing total of 80
for their second innings, the Springboks lost the second
Test, and retired to nurse their sorrow. Whitty’s record
was six wickets for 17 runs.
* * * *
In the match Cotter rooked nine no-balls and
one wide, Kelleway two no-balls and a wide, and Arm-
strong a wide—l 4 sundries thrown into the African score
by darned bad play. Then the wicketkeeping of Carter
was a thing to give Australia the nightmare, 21 sun-
dries (exclusive of the bowlers’ vagaries) being allowed
in an aggregate of 586. As a contrast, Sherwell
allowed but nine sundries (not including two no-
balls from Faulkner) in an aggregate of 675. Left-
hander W. J. Whitty was the only hunk of true
metal in the Australian bowling. Cotter’s six wickets
cost no less than 203 runs, Armstrong’s four were
bought for 138, Kelleway’s one was worth 67, and
Macartney got none for 43. It was Whitty’s nine wickets
for 99 runs that hauled the Kangaroo tail out of the soup,
and especially the six for 17 in the second innings. The
question is, What sort of havoc would he have wrought
with the Africans if he had only been cured of two boils ?
* * ‘ *
The same thing looks likely to apply to the
third Test at Adelaide. Cotter continued his anarchist
tactics, and sent down nine no-balls and one wide in the
African first innings. Kelleway excelled himself with
eight no-balls and three wides, and Macartney hardly
deserves mention with only one modest no-ball. Still, he
had a hand in the piling up of an additional 22 for the
African score. One of these days the Australian XI will
lose a match by the margin of the sundries ; and then the
public that follows cricket will arise, turn cannibal, and
eat the offending cricketers raw.
* * * *
Cricketer G. Hazlitt, who was till lately a
tower of strength to the Victorian XI., is now domi-
ciled in N.S.W., having joined the teaching staff
of King's School, at Parramatta. Under the just-con-
cluded agreement he is barred from the N.S.W. inter-
state teams this season. But he can play in the Grade
matches, and he made his bow last Saturday. A line
energetic bow it was. Playing for Central Cumberland
he demoralised Middle Harbor by taking five wickets for
37 runs, and smacking up 67 off his own bat with easy
grace. In spite of his removal he has had a fair time this
season in big cricket, having represented Victoria twice
against South Australia and once against Africa. He is a
valuable acquisition to the Ma State.
* * * *
A Sydney Metropolitan team went up to
Mudgee (N.S.W.) lately to show the natives how to
do things. But a bowler named Honevsette fell on the
team, smashed nine wickets for 22 runs, and made a holy
show of the invaders generally. One never knows what
one ,is going to strike at Mudgee. Many surprises have
come from that district; among others, the mighty
McKibbin made his dbbut against a Metrop. team at the
town of the unknown quantitj'. Honeysette is evidently
a man worth remembering.
* * * *
While piling up his 204 in the second Test,
G. A. Faulkner, Africa’s mighty cricketer, passed the
1000 run mark for the trip. Up to the end of the second
Test he had scored 1068 runs in 18 innings, and carried
his bat once. His average worked out at 62‘82.
Carlton (Vi'c.) started the New Year well by
smacking up 312 for three wickets against St. Kilda,
whose bowling was treated with ferocity. Warne
(150 not out) and Dick (87 not out) were mostly
responsible for the castigation. The only other
scores of noticeable eminence were Collingwood’s
281 against South Melbourne, and P’ran’s five for
233 against Fitzroy. The latter struggle, which
transpired at Toorak Park, was marked by a startling
bowling display. P’ran dismissed Fitzroy for 49 in 77
minutes, a trundler named Bell getting the splendid
average of seven for eight. Two other bowlers who shone
during the afternoon were Callender, of Melbourne (six
for 70 against East Melbourne), and Miller, of Richmond
(five for 44 against North Melbourne). And Monfries,
who keeps the sticks for Melbourne, again gets into the
division of the honorably mentioned by stumping three
and catching one.
* *
That brave band of N.S.W. bowlers who pene.
trated as far as Adelaide came to an unhappy end last
week. After gathering in the first Test by 107 to 89, the
luck of the Cornstalks failed, and they were overthrown
twice running by 96 to 77 and 118 to 89. Thus were the
Scriptures fulfilled, inasmuch as the last were first and
the first were last. Selah 1 But there was balm in the
fact that N.S.W. secured the second and third places in
the Australasian Champidnship. Mr. Scott, of Balmain,
secured the second trophy, and Mr. Walter Denyer, of
Warringah, the third.
That Motor Bike Reliability Race from Mel-
bourne to Sydney was a dreadful smack in the eye for
one Sydney daily, which heaped contumely on the Vic-
torians for not nominating freely. As a fact, though there
were just two Melbourne nominations, from the paper’s
standpoint they were two too many, as they dead-
heated with a N. S. Welshman named P. J. Murphy.
Just as well no more earne in. It was a great run. Of
20 starters only nine finished, over half of the retired
ones winding up in the train. The loss of points
ranged from nine to 210, and was mostly due to croppers
in the soft sandy soil between Seymour and Wangaratta.
Engine troubles were remarkably few, and the three
dead-heaters got through without losing a single point.
Each will receive a special prize in addition to the gold
medal presented to those who finished the course.
Riding through loose, sandy soil is a fine art that can be
acquired only after a lot of practice.
The first man to strike trouble was A. E.
Morton, who took a wrong turn, and found himself 35
miles away from his course. His engine was running
perfectly, he was feeling as fit as fit could be, and
although he cutout the extra 70 miles at a great bat, he
was so late at the control point that his loss of points
was fatal, and he retired at once. Then J. VV. Emp-
son dashed into a ditch, smashed his wheel and
eke his knee; and he returned to Melbourne for
treatment. W. Millar smashed his back rim ; so, riding
back to Benalla, he boarded the train for Sydney. At
Benalla A. Foy also dropped out, having smashed up his
wheels in a rut. J. H. Sainty had a bad fall near Albury,
was incapacitated, and retired. Longworth finished
the first day without losing a point; next day he
broke his wheel crossing a creek, and was outed.
Marduel smashed the back stays of his machine,
and had a delicate job to reach control. L. J.
Astley retired on the third day through engine
troubles. W. Reynolds buckled his wheels in a V-shaped
rut, but arrived bn time. Next morning he started late
owing to spending time effecting repairs, and had to pro-
ceed gingerly, repairing his wheels every few miles. For
200 miles he rode, like Lochinvar, alone. He slept out, and
once nearly went over a precipice. But he was full of sand,
struggled through to Yass at 5.30 a.m., and started with
the rest at 7 a.m. He had been baked by day and frozen
by night, but he kept going till Sydney was only 50 miles
away. These are but a few samples of the excitement a
fellow meets with on a Motor-bike Reliability race. It’s
a man’s game all right. And the men who took part pro-
pose to make it an annual affair.
r * * * *
Everybody who has ridden in a Sydney tram-
car has heard the automatic air-pump pouring wind into
the air-brake ; but, then, there are a lot of people in
Australia who have not heard anything in Syd-
ney. Still they will be glad to learn that an automatic
air-pump for bikes will shortly be placed on the market
by the Dunlop Rubber people. This appliance will be
attached to the hub, and when the air pressure in the
tyre falls below the fixed point a cam will come into play
and operate the pump till it is thrown out of gear by the
pressure of the tyre. #
Although one would not think it, there are now
94 taxi-cabs on the ranks of Sydney, and the registration
books show 1950 motor bikes in N.S.W. and 2257 cars.
These, with miscellaneous assortments, make a total of
4207 motor vehicles in the State. And the report of the
salesmen, importers, and such-like, is 11 still they come.”
* * * *
The Yankees have got a new bike craze. It is
a two-mile relay race between horsemen and bikists. The
horseman is allowed to have two neddies, one for
each mile, and against him are two cyclists who
each ride a mile. the first of the competitions
resulted in a win for the horse by 200 yards. But that
was only to be expected. The horse always does win in a
short race. It is when the distance runs towards double
figures that the gee-gee begins to wilt and fade, like the
blasted banyan tree.
* * * *
From Ered O. (Instance : “I endorse the par.
of ‘ Hermes’(B. 29/12/’10) except for the following. It
does not matter in the least what time Mr. Camphin got
to Goulburn, or any other place en route, or what time
he said he got anywhere. The only times of any import-
ance at all are properly checked by about a hundred
witnesses and officials of the auto clubs concerned. Of
course, I refer to the times at Sydney G.P.O. and Mel-
bourne G.P.O. Other times are only useful for filling up
a nice column of windy guff in the paper next day.
For ‘ Hermes ’ to say that it is hard to compare the per-
formances of various record-breakers proves him to be
deaf and unable to read. The only thing that matters at
all is time in a record ; but apparently ‘ Hermes ’ doesn’t
understand this. The man who does the fastest run
holds the record and the nothing else matters.
It is no more absurd to pit the deed of a man who drives
all the way against one who is relieved at intervals for
food, etc., than it is absurd to pit the deed of a man who
has four attempts on a record before he is successful
against a man who has lowered three overland records
following, all at the first attempt and all in the same old
car, which had toured 20,000 miles before it started
record-breaking. Also, it might be considered ab-
surd by ‘ Hermes ’ to pit White’s record, accom-
plished on a three-year-old, 20,000-mile touring
car, against Mr. Day’s, accomplished on a specially-
imported brand-new racer. Also, if a man be silly enough
to drive his own car right through when he could do far
better by having a few spells, that is his look-out. Also,
there is no proof that Day did drive his own car right
through, although I, for one, am pretty sure he did.
Because of all these details, a m£fn who commences to cry
and quibble after a trip is over about what he did do and
what he might have done, wants his head read. There
are two things only, as I mentioned before —Sydney time,
Melbourne time ; and, of course, same car and men. The
finish of • Hermes’s ’ effusion is right, except when he
says White was accompanied by an employee. I am not
an employee of White, never have been and never will be.”
* * * *
Still another attempt is to be made on the Syd-
ney-to-Melbourne motoring record, the new aspirant for
the dusty wreath being Joe Granter, one-time prominent
wheelman, but now a dealer in “ ile.” Joe recently cap-
tured the Launceston-Hobart record, after a more or less
affable argument with a mob of sheep en route. Granter
will drive a motor of similar breed to that used by Camp-
phin a few weeks ago.
Saturday next will see a rather interesting
event on the Parramatta River in the shape of a Novice
Handicap. The course has been fixed between Putney
and Searle’s Monument, making a distance of about If
miles. The 14 entries have been divided into two heats
of seven each, and the winners will, of course, row
the final. The handicap has been inaugurated solely
with a view to encouraging young scullers, and
deserves well of the community accordingly. After the
expenses have been paid, the surplus, if any, will be divided
among the placed men, and it is understood that the
officers are giving their services free. Dick Arnst is to
be umpire ; judge, Alf Dawson ; starter, Robert Hopping;
handicappers, the Kemps (father and son) and Robert
Shaw. Two steamers will follow the race and will leave
the boatshed of Peter Kemp, aforementioned, at 2.30
p.m. sharp. This is the sort of enterprise that is likely
to raise a crop of promising young men.
* * * ■*
The people who go down to Sydney harbor in
boats had a weird time of it on Saturday afternoon. Part
of the harbor was dominated by a hard westerly wind,
and part of it was swept by a spasmodic nor’-easter, which
was hard when it was going. The event of the day
was the 14ft. championship of the State, and the
race for it was a joke. One boat capsized on the
way to the line, another rolled over just after
getting across. When they got down the harbor
the onlookers were paralysed at the spectacle of
boats running before the wind in opposite directions. St.
George, steered by that redoubtable skipper, W. Dunn,
romped in an easy winner, followed by Jessie and Rene.
Next Saturday will see Sydney Club’s ISft. championship
decided.
* * * *
When the hob-nailed boot of authority com-
pelled the Arnsts to finally leave the wheel for the shell,
one A. B. L. Smith gathered in the Maoriland champion-
ship honors. He was hailed by the Arnst party as “ a
bum champion,” an ugly phrase intended to throw doubt
on the bona-ftdes of whoever it is applied to. But Smith
hung on to liis honors, and now the One Mile and the Five
Mile championships have been won by him in a manner
that suggests that the Arnst Bros, only changed their
togs in the nick of time. The new champion was ap-
parently right on them, and they didn’t recognise him.
* * * *
The Tote was badly wanted at Flemington on
New Year’s Day. In each of the races eight or ten of
the starters were backed for money, and in three cases
the winner was a comparative outsider. Yet the longest
price laid against those outsiders was 10 to 1. In the
Welter Handicap, for instance, there were six
better favorites than Barm, the winner, and four other
starters had friends. Nevertheless a punter had to
work hard to get 10 to one about Barm. The limit with
most of the books was eight to one, and this in a race
where the first favorite (Sleepy Jack) was backed down to
nine to four, and the odds against five others ranged from,
s’s to 7’s. A tote would have returned nearly double the
odds that the books laid on an average during the day.
Starters, as a rule, are triers on New Year’s Day, and
winners are hard to pick.
* * * *
A somewhat brilliant performance was that of
Oarette, who won the Standish Handicap (six furlongs)
very easily in lmin. 15sec., which is good time for Fleming-
t.on. The mare carried Bst. 71b., giving 211 b. toher nearest
attendants. Oarette runs badly enough at times, but on
her best days she is very speedy. Another bright bit of
work was the victory of J. Turnbull’s two-year-old St.
Abbs in the Criterion Handicap. The filly gave a lot of
weight to the field, and won handsomely after being
whipped to the front. If the pedigree—Challenger-
Fishery—suggested stamina, one would pick St. Abbs as
likely to be a star three-year-old next season.
* * *
If “ Bogey ” Beaurepaire accepts the billet of
Chief Swimming Instructor to Victorian State Schools, it
means that he leaves the ranks of the amateurs and be-
comes a professional. All the same, it is up to him to do
it. He would be a fool to throw away such a chance un-
less he has something better to go to immediately, and it
would be a great benefit to swimming by allowing the
other fellows a show to do something. “Bogey” has
shot his bolt, made his name., swept the board —what
more can he require? A good billet—and it aw'aits him.
* * * *
South Australian League of Swimmers has cast
the orange of envy into the Australian swimming pond.
A championship gathering is to be held in Adelaide,
whereat £l2O will be scattered in prize-money. The
golden plum will be the 1000yds. premiership, w’hich will
carry a first prize of £2O. It isn’t a gorgeous sum—a boxer
would be struck speechless at the mention of such an
amount; but to the swimmer, accustomed to electro-
plated trophies, it is affluence itself. The programme
has cast a gloom over the amateur section ; there are
rumblings, and any day news of a great splash may be
heard.
Jack Freeman and Tom Coppard were return-
ing from a high old time at Garah race meeting to Moree
(N.S.VV.) Inst week, when Sergeant Moroney fell upon
them, got them down, and discovered in the bottom of
the gig a faked spinning-wheel for the game of Sandown,
which should be called Part Up ; faked dice-rings for the
good old game of Ringalette ; two double-headed pennies,
a two-up kip, and other utensils of robbery. It was a
clean sweep ; but the P.M. had apparently been having
a good time and was feeling charitable. Wherefore Jack
and Tom got off with a miserable four months and one
month of safe keeping. Their luck was in.
* * * #
Competing at the Maoriland professional cham-
pionship meeting, held under the auspiq.es of the M.L.
Athletic Union last week, G. E. Holwayjrthe Amurkan
runner who is dubbed the world’s sprint champion, col-
lared the 100yds. and 220yds. championships, being clocked
atlOsec., and 22 4-ssec. respectively. He also netted the
150yds. handicap in 14 3-ssec.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Track Championships, engin-
eered by the local Ass., were brought off last week on the
Upper Reserve, Hobart. There was an invasion of Vic-
torian peds., which caused trouble. “Sammy” Marshall,
of Malvern Harriers, who is the joint mile champion of
Victoria, cakewalked the mile in 4min. 404-ssec., which
was 2 4-6 sec. slower than the Tasmanian record hoisted
by A. denies (now at Oxford) in 1908. The Malvernite
also appropriated the quarter hurdles in 64sec. “ Morry ”
O’Connell (East Melbourne Harriers) pipped the 120.vds.
hurdles and thelongjumpin fine style. Jack Ebeling (Mel-
bourne Harriers) landed home second in the mile and third
in the half-mile, w’hile Sinton “Mummer” Hewitt (Mal-
vern) was third in the three-mile run. Bill Murray (Mel-
bourne), famous as a Marathon runner and recognised as
Victoria’s crack walker, met his Waterloo in the one and
three-mile walks; W. Ellis (New Town, Tas.) was the
winner. Ellis was timed at 7min. 20 2-ssec. in the mile
event, and thus smashed the record of 7min. 23 2-ssee.
established by H. E. Kerr (M.L.) in the Australasian
championships held at Hobart in L9OB. In the three-
mile the clocks showed 24min. 22see. In both events
the Melbourne man did all the donkey work, and
was just pipped on the post. W. T. Oonder (Laun-
ceston) secured the hundred in llsec., G. Goddard
(Hobart) the furlong in 25sec., H. Gorney the
half in 55 I-ssec., while A. R. Mills (Launceston)
accounted for the half in 2min. 11 2-ssec., which is very
second-rate time. F. Hailam (New Town) made good in
the three-mile run in 16min. 6 l-ssec. A strong southerly
wind affected times in the sprints. R. Agnew (Mid-
lands) and C. H. Elliott (Hobart) dead-heated for the
high jump, but their sft. leap was only up to schoolboy
standard. Leo Walker (Trinity), the joint Australasian
pole-vaulter, could only manage to clear 9ft. 6in., though
"the pole is stated to have been bandaged up in several
places. New Town won the championship with 16
points, with Trinity (Launceston), 12 points, second ;
and Malvern (Vic.), eight points, third. Then came
Hobart (7J points), Melbourne (7), Midlands (6J), East
Melbourne (6), and Essendon (2J).
* * * *
Pole-hunting seems to be an exasperating game.
Some Yankee Legislature is just now inquiring into Peary’s
claim that he reached the Pole ; and one of the things taken
exception to was the Captain’s statement that he travelled
150 miles in three days. It was argued that the con-
ditions of Arctic travel made it impossible, and Peary’s
claim seemed likely to be blown out on that score alone.
However, Peary cheerfully offered to show that he could
do it, and the Government laid down conditions for a
test. Peary covered 50 miles in 15hr. 35min., and was
allowed to have “ made good.” But some of . the critics
are still unconvinced, and point out that the Arctic en-
vironment must have made a lot of difference. Speaking
to an Australian who has spent a good deal of time in
Scandinavia, a Bulletin man learned that 50 miles a day
on snow-shoes is not an unusual distance once one has
mastered the knack of “gliding.” If the snow has
fallen freshly and hardened on top, good travelling can
be done, and a man can maintain an average speed of
four or five miles an hour easily, so long as there is no
downhill travelling. Downhill is harder than uphill, and
slower. The secret of easy walking on snow-shoes is to
avoid lifting the feet and to sway the body easily so that
the feet slide forward rhythmically. So Peary would pro-
bably walk faster in Arctica than at Washington, where
he covered only an average of 3J miles per hour.
* * * *
Trouble threatens among Victorian footballers
when the season opens next year, if not before. The Ass.
has drawn up its little scheme for restraining profession-
alism, while legalising it; but, as before remarked, this
won’t amount to a row of pins unless the League joins in.
The League, instead of joining in, is making overtures to
four Ass. clubs—North, Essendon, P’ran and Brunswick—
to leave their old organisation and come into the League’s
parlor. While the League is busy that way, the Ass. is
philandering with the W.A. and S.A. Associations, trying
to persuade them to leave the Australasian Football
Council and join in setting up a new governing body.
What will happen nobody knows yet ; but anyhow, the
whole episode is lamentable, and likely to smear the
game with a disrepute that only Time, an axe, and a
genuine system of district football will remove.
* * * *
The Bronson who fought Mehegan on New
Year’s night at the Sydney Stadium and the same man
who fought Arthur Douglas last Saturday at the same
place, were two very different boxers. In the battle for
the lightweight championship the young American had
undermined his strength to make the required weight;
but between the larruping he received from the Victorian
and the larruping he passed on to Douglas, he had
simply piled on flesh. So, in his second fight, he
had the double advantage of his normal strength and
a much softer job to undertake. Douglas put up a dis-
appointing scrap. There was no devil in it and darned
little of anything else ; and his much heavier opponent
practically spanked him at sweet will for 11 rounds. At
the end of that period the groggy man’s towel was sent
along as a message of peace.
The chances of Papke and Smith meeting again
in Australia this season are somewhat remote. Papke
isn't exactly showing- the white feather, but he is certainly
not treating Smith with that respect to which a man’s
walloper is entitled. The Yankee declines to come down
to list. 41b., the middle-weight limit, unless a small
fortune is put on the table and the match is
for the championship. How Papke can deliver the
championship if it should be won from him is
a question upon which people would like some enlighten-
ment. But what is sticking in Papke’s gorge is the fact
that if he fights Smith at the middleweight poundage
and gets licked, as he stands more than Buckley’s chance
of doing, his name in the great and glorious “Stites”
will be Dead Meat. And Dead Meat gets no dollars in
that land of the free. By the way, Papke is after dollars.
So Smith will fight Clabby, and Clabby is
working gently, delicately almost, with a view to con-
serving weight as much as possible, as Smith will have
the advantage of poundage. As far as boxing goes,'this
writer has little doubt that Smith can down Clabby
easily. But what the Australian has to avoid is
the series of despicable Yankee tactics that the
very best of Yankees seem to let loose when they
find themselves in difficulties. The hanging i« m 1 the
neck, the bunting and hustling, the wrestle-push and
general roughing, the keynote of which is to make the
opponent carry the weight, is what makes the Yankee
bruiser so formidable. This writer’s advice to the Austra-
lian boxer is, if the Yankee tries on that sort of game, to
give back to him. Get hold of him, let him drag some
Australian meat and muscle round the ring ; hit him
first and then fall heavily on to him and embrace him
round the neck. But, best of all, insist upon a Clean
break ; 'then if the Amurkan fails to break cleanly, get
down into the gutter with him, and play him at his own
game till the referee can take a hand.
Like millionaire Conder in “The Dollar
Princess,” G. Reid is beginning to surround him-
self with odds and ends of the aristocracy. He
has just appointed as his private secretary. the
Hon. T. L. McClintock Bunbury, eldest son of
Lord Rothdonnell, of Lisnavagh, Rathvilly,
County Carlow, Ireland. The Hon. Bunbury
isn’t likely to know anything about Australia ;
but Reid probably chose him on account of his
intimate knowledge of the lolly shops of London.
“Red Tape Junior”: N.S.W. Lands
Minister Nielsen has clambered down a few rijngs
from the eminence where he surveyed the land
agent on first taking office. Nielsen then declared
that his Department was prepared to deal with
clients direct, and that an application bearing
the thumb-mark of a land agent would be
regarded as a studied insult. Since then, Niejsen
has apparently discovered that the average Lands
office clerk is incapable of dealing, rapidly and
coherently, with the hasty settler desirous of
carving his name on a portion of the Out-
back. Not that the clerk is so much to blame
as the Department’s cumbersome and out-of-
date methods and the maze of discordant
and inextricable legislation masquerading; as
the Crown Lands Acts. In order to expedite
the requirements of the Department’s constitu-
ents, therefore, the Minister has announced that
the doors will be open to agents who are known to
be respectable. These agents will be required to
register themselves, Nielsen retaining the right to
erase any name from the list. Which may save a
bit of trouble to the Crown Lands office, but is
liable to provide a ton of the article to the man
who does the erasing.
“ Lorraine ” from somewhere in the back
of Queensland :
Apropos of old Coolgardieites at Bullfinch (B. 8/12/’10).
There is a good sprinkling of old hands in North and
West Queensland. The reason they did not make tracks
for tVie’Finch was that they did not consider it a rush.
A field that already had several shafts sunk and drives
opened out, and a programme cut and dried months pre-
viously, could hardly be called a rush. It did not seem
fair sport—more like a so-called sportsman taking a
sitting shot at a tame fowl. Keats, brother of the
big Keats, was partner of John De Baun in early
Coolgardie days. De Baun, after his big knock-out
in silver on the Adelaide Exchange, matte a bid
for fortune afresh at Ooolgardie. Keats has since
been to Alaska, and is now in one of the North Queens-
land ports running an insurance and agency business.
Danny Nicholson, one of the Oosmo-Newberry men,
better known as “ the little gentleman rider,”
found assaying of little value ; but he had
the largest pestle and mortar ever seen ; and when Lon-
donderry broke out the size of the mortar helped the
hunks of gold to sell the mine. Nicholson afterwards
went Singapore way, and started to build a reinforced
concrete jetty for a native prince. The prince’s daughter
wanted him to settle there ; but he is in the back
of Queensland as overseer of several copper mines
—all within 200 miles of one another. Distance
is a trifle in North Queensland. Corbould, who
knew Broken Hill before the line of lode saw a smelter,
w'as one of the men who walked from Fremantle to Cool-
gardie. At Hannan’s, where Brookman showed him the
auriferous iron hills he was pegging out, Corbould told
him they were not worth a damn —that the so-called iron
hills were originally clay-pans, in which the iron from the
surrounding hills had been deposited, that a shaft from
the apex would bottom into country within a few feet,
and that the paint-gold showing in the deposits must have
come from other sources ; also, that if any payable deposits
were to be located they would be on one side of the so-called
iron hills. He didn’t guess what enormously rich de-
posits of gold were to be located in the vicinity of those
hills. Corbould has sinee roughed it on two new fields —
one in British Columbia and another in the U.S. He is
now away back in North Queensland, bossing the Elliot.
Another pioneer now in North Queensland is McGeorge—
“ Gount-Haw-McGeorge.” But the haw and the drawl
were natural. He and good-looking Bruce Henderson
chucked away the Golden Horseshoe. “ Count Mac” is
now manager of some of the Chillagoe shows.


LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP,
—r™ 7”
mmmm
245
Vv
Mii.i
U»n
'~ s Jpt
79
IV li ERE statements of Quality,
unsupported by facts, count
as nothing. “Marshall shoes
are good because they
combine genuine comfort,
unquestioned style, and
long wear. What more
do yOU ask of any shoe
Style
No. 1515
I, xia Toe,
Dango Pat. Colt,
Blucher Bal.,
Calf Kid Quarters.
21/=
Send for Style Book.
Stocked by Anthony Hordern & Sons,
Sydney, and most other Good Dealers.
Inquire of yours.
BURNLEY ST.,
RICHMOND, VIC.
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
The hig'hest
developments
reached in Milling Machine construction
are embodied in Cincinnati Milling
Machines. We are Sole Australasian
Agents for these machines, and have
supplied to the leading Engineers
and Motor Garages in Australasia.
Our Catalogue mailed at your request.
When writing, please mention this paper.
w:»
zstw*
Thomas McPherson & Son
$B2-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ESTABLISHED 50 YEARS.
hg
Evidence in a tetter
“ Nine months ago I purchased one of your ‘ B. & B.’ Standards
from the Goulburn Agent, and I wish to say it has not given me the
slightest trouble. I have given it a good trial over bad roads and in
wet weather, and it runs as well as the day I got it. I should
advise anyone in purchasing a cycle to get a ‘ B. & B.’ machine.”
L. G. FAIRALL, Goulburn, 17/12/10.
We can’t add much to testimony of that sort, except tell you he
only paid £l5 for the machine. Call and see one, or let us send a
Catalogue if you cannot call.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largest Cycle-Building Jdouse in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Come where the Motor business booms—
Tbe'Tarrarjt,'Melbourne.
h
Sixty Cars sold in last two months,
and the record grows and grows.
We have some excellent slightly-used
Cars at a price to fit all pockets.
Write and get one while the chance lasts.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.,
108 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for F.N., Ford, Fiat, Mercedes, Commer Waggon,
De Dion, Argyll, Rover, etc.
The “ MOTA” (Regd.).
The “Mota” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking, driving or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota ” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
‘SHELL’
GIVES
BEST
ALL-ROUND
RESULTSi
UNDER
ALL
CONDITIONS.
AND THAT'S WHAT YOU NEED-
IN THE MAKING
ghg
of the Rigney Shoes
no limits are placed
on the efforts of the
workmen, the origin-
al ty of the design-
ers, or the quality
of the materials.
In Rigney Shoes
you get perfection
of fit, style, work-
manship and finish.
The Boot illus-
trated is a choice
Russian Calf Boot,
close welt, fine
stitch.
PRICES:
21/-, 22/6
and 2516.
Also in Tan.
Postage 9d. extra.
SEND FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE.
The RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The
Ready Entertainer
In the long-Summer evenings, after the day’s
work, there is nothing more pleasant than to
sit on the lawn, verandah, or other convenient
place and listen to the strains of sweet music
rendered to perfection by the Edison Phono-
graph.
The whole family and visitors can thoroughly
enioy this entertainment, and be as com-
fortably situated as is possible. The Edison
Phonograph is always ready when wanted, and
it stops as soon as you’ve had enough.
Wouldn’t you like one ?
Call on the nearest Edison dealer and hear
the Phonograph play over one or two Amberol
or Standard Records. This will convince you
of its worthiness. If you do not know the
address of a dealer, write us and we will tell
you that of the nearest, and also send you
complete and latest lists of machines and
records.
Get an EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30-h.p. Chalmers
£4 90
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp. THOMAS,
6-Cylinder 7=Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
PROBATE JURISDICTION.
In the Estate of JESSIE ELIZABETH
BRYSON n6e LOWE late of Narrabri New
South Wales Married Woman deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given to William Johnstone
Bryson the husband of the abovenamed deceased
who died on the 6th June 1890 that her Estate is
being administered by the undersigned under ah
order of the said Court and that the said William
Johnstone Bryson is entitled to one-third of the
said Estate. NOW THEREFORE the saic}
William Johnstone Bryson is hereby called upon
to come in and prove his claim to the said share
on or before the fifteenth day of March 1911
otherwise an application will be made to the said
Court for an order declaring that the said William
Johnstone Bryson shall be presumed to have died
intestate since the year 1890 and for the under-
signed to administer his Estate. The said
William Johnstone Bryson was formerly a Store-
keeper at Clarence Town N.S.W. and was last
heard of in the year 1890. The undersigned will be
pleased to receive information from any person
concerning the said William Johnstone Bryson.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates,
Chancery Square, SYDNEY.
Re JOSEPH HASKINS.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
the 31st day of October 1910 made in the matter
of Joseph jarrett. Haskins d( ceased Haskins v.
Haskins 1910 H. No. 1055. An inquiry is directed,
in the following terms namely : —An Inquiry
whether Joseph Haskins one of the children of
the Testator Joseph Jarrett Haskins is living or
dead and if dead when he died and if he died
after the death of the said Testator (which
occurred on the 29th day of October 1895) who
by bequest as next of kin or otherwise are now
entitled to the share of the said Joseph Haskins
in the said Testator’s Residuary Estate and in
what shares and proportions and who are his legal'
personal representatives.
NOTICE is hereby given that the said Joseph
Haskins if living or if he died since the 29th day
of October 1895 iiis legal Personal Representative
and all persons claiming under the above,
mentioned Inquiry is or are by his or their
Solicitors on or before the 31st day of March 1911
to come in and prove his or their claims at th,e
Chambers of Mr. Justice Joyce and Mr. Justice
Eve Room 689 at the Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London or in default thereof he or they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Monday the 17th day of April
1911 at 12.30 o’clock in the afternoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the Claims.
Dated this 30th day of November, 1910.
RICH. JOHN YILLIERS,
Master,
for Master Hewlett.
NOTE. —The abovenamed Joseph Haskins
went to live in Australia in 1883 with his wife
whose maiden name was Lily Phipps and infant
daughter and his two brothers Edmund and
Hartley Haskins. They first went to Gympie in
Queensland and lived there for six months. In
or about October 1887 the said Joseph Haskins
went to Sydney and lived there or at Camden for
about 14 months. In the years 1888 or 1889 the
said Joseph Haskins returned to Gympie where
he had to go into hospital for cancer. He was
discharged from the hospital as incurable and he
then left Gympie with the intention of making
his way to the Gulf of Carpentaria. He has not
been heard of since this date and it is believed
that he died soon afterwards in the same year.
GRIBBLE, ODDIE, SINCLAIR, ROWLATT
& JOHNSON,
38 Bedford Row, London, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Business Announcements.
** AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags. Belts, Straps. Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sew*
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
x reel cotton.)
ĝh
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
f Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
, repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
is the “ Awl-you-want,” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain,
ad. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent). 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note fo
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collin* Street. Melbourne.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Carrying one cla«s of passengers only.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15r. and £l7 17s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SA ’PERSO'', LTO7 Bent St.
Mki.ho'iiink Aoknts : .IOIIN SANDERSON & CO.,
Jll Willinni-st.reet.
Adelaide & Fremantle Aoknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-’uxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Room' - , Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
jjank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp &Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Rein Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £861,134
j
PDAIJTC npACTQ
UlinW I O Un«r I O
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Int e r Pst for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking husi
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAT OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONI ON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTORS — Philip 11. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Sottor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq.; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairina’n ; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALI,AN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. : F. LORD. E q.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0‘ 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ;y" itt-t-tt;
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London,
-21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout thfe World.
The Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office kor New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Ilor.. C. J. Rorkrts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Rruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping;.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE ... 1., £66 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. For winded Post Free
to any address.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. f'ayetown. Plymouth, anti
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
t New Steamer. a One class only.
Fitted Wireless Telegraphy. h Calls Hobart.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickers available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
gh
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
January 18.
! MEDIC, 12.000 tons, to sail about
; February 18.
' AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARKS—(Japetown or Durban £.15 lo 0 to £-4 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 35 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Onlv on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
ĝ
HOLIDAY CRUISES i
to Papua and the Pacific islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Jan. 27, Mar. 10 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Jan. 13, Feb. 24 (five weeks’ round trip).
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Commissioners liave MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS and SETTLERS from £5O to £2OOO, repayable by
instalments extending over 30 years, bow rates of interest and special,repayment privileges.
The Savings Bank Department accepts DEPOSITS from 1/- up to £5OO. , Interest paid on the minimum
monthly balance. 's.
THE SAFETY' DEPOSIT BOX (Price 61.) is the latest idea for savings. Try one.
ADVANCES MADE UP TO £25,000 at moderate rates of interest on City dr Country Freeholds,
fcull particulars and forms of application at nnv Branch, Post Office Agency, Crown Lands Office, or at the
Head Office, MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. • J. 11. Davies, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
gj
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,503,015
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. It. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Rnohland. Esq.
Itichard Biiinre, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand. MaeLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq....
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64- Old Broad St., E.C.
319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New Soutn Wales 159, Victoria 37,
47, South Australia 5, West Australia XI, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and
Ajrents and Correspondents through out Tasmania, the United .Kingdom, Europe, India,. China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America." Honolulu., and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE,WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells & Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. Central ‘2196.
And 605 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374.
L arge Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning; Boomerang's from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Rood Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Ret Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/-each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6 ; Boots,
411/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchases Packed Free and Labelled.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
They glide
over the paper as
a skilful skater
skims over the
ice. No sticking,
spurting or splut-
tering. Isn't this
what YOU are
looking for ?
BALL-
POINTED
They write
with the ease and
comfort of a lead
pencil. The little
hall on the point
is a real wonder
worker. Try a
6d. Sample Box.
Obtainable from
all Stationers.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £87.500 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. .7. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esa., M.A.. LL.D. : Alexander M'Cracken,
JAMES BORROWMAK, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Pr upecti a. 131 Pitt St., STHNEV.
Shipping-
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Tran.«hinnin<r at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Feb. 4 and
Mar. 4
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing with Koombana
in Fremantle for North-
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Olirns.
5.5. Grantala, Jan. 14.
5.5. Yonarala, Jan. 21.
5 .
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tinker,s are. interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies ,on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE,
THE ALL-RED EOUljpJ.
To VANCOUVER/ via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES. 1
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-screw Steamer.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL. i
T.S.S. “SOMERSET,”
11,300 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - - 7th Feb.
• „ ~ SYDNEY- - - - 14th Feb.
~ „ MELBOURNE - - 21st Feb.
~ ADELAIDE - - - 28th Feb.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third,class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining roohi on the upper deck.
Well lighted arid yentiiiited cabins and Spacious c|ecks.
Third-class-passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Rou/id Trip tickets issued via Cape and (dr) Suez
routes, prepaid passages arranged. ’
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL,!. [ £49 10s - £ l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane ;
H. .10NES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN &, Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Insurance.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIfE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
- ' FOR 1
Ordinary & Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors :
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Urk, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting- Actuary
W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office : '
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Building's,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan" always has vacancies on its
Afrency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN!
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC,
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
VOUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Girls’ own
* Newspaper, invites the submission of STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General., “FARMER<AND
SETTLER” OFFICE, 435 Kent Street, Sydney, £


Hotels, &c.
rtlin
George hotel,
St- Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
LONDON
England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/0, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK WORTH, Manager.
ğĥghghg
Y" OU might just as well
enhance the charm of
your physique, Madam,
and be healthier with the
new D & A Directoire
Corset, as discount it and
injure your health with ill-
fitting and old-fashioned
Corsets.
Madam, you cannot rival the
“Chic” and“ Svelte” appear-
ance of French and American
women unless you wear a corset
that shapes gracefully and fits
comfortably.
At Paris the fountain head of
styles, our designer has sought
most carefully before, after
many experiments, we perfected
on living models our wonderful
new D & A Directoire Corset.
The result is a corset giving all
the “Chic’’ and ‘ ‘Svelte’ ’ appear-
ance of the leaders of fashion
in France; and moreover, by
holding the body in shape
without compressing unduly at
any point the D & A Directoire
is more healthful for you than
any other Corset. Don’t buy a
corset before first fitting on the
Mmefibm i&ozwt
For Sale by all leading drapers. A-6
The Dominion Corset Company, Quebec, Canada.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
C.USTARP
wj
Birds
Custard With Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
“ The Way backs Again.”
Another
stank of
joy and laughter about the famous family*
Is.
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS !
Temperature mild ; Atmosphere exhilarating ; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
The Leading Hotel—the Fashionnhle Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished ; Excellent
Attendance ; First-class Cuisine ; Kosher Meat; Telephone ; Electric Light; Select Billiard
Room, etc. Central Situation ; close to River, Rail, Trams, G.P.0., Tourist Bureau, etc.
Rooms now being booked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfield Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
MEDLOW BATH, Blw Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements havp been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Mediow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can he made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Mediow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained frorn the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
TEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. J 7, except fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[5
■
a
C.'H;
l
‘
...
:
aw
§1
ifliSfl
.V
. ;;?V .
?
M
50 years ago the name of Alcock was practically unknown—to-day
it is synonymous with billiards. Why ?
They have always maintained that high standard of excellence,
so scientifically q.nd accurately constructed their tables, cues, etc., that
it is no wonder that the popularity of Alcock Tables has grown so
much.
Gray, who made his wonderful break of 836 —831 coming off the
red —and other prominent players, are prompt to proclaim these tables
as perfect in every respect.
We make them in all sizes and styles—the “ Bijou ” table is a
special favorite for the home.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue —we supply every billiard
requisite.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty.Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
HP
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe* Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Ripg-.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, e/o Sydney A cents.
Seasonable
Suiting's.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest nroductions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
m
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
W4iirm
jniiimtiimigtiiti.
"■■l r *”
F.WOLFF&SOHN
F. Wolff &SOHN
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
* LONDON
\
Ohtainahle from all the Leading Stores.
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
hjg gh
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Niblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently.
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly,4o years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of recommendation from
Doctors, Clergymen and other persons of the
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.—Send for very interesting booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post frep. Rocke,
Tompsitt & Co., 292 to 298 Flinders St., Melbourne.


HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late Imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others. - *®
rALDWELL’S
High Quality INKS.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Brickfield Hill, Sydney
STATION
HANDS!
THE Great Sale event of the
Year will start on the 20th
January, and we thought we’d
just like to mention one or two items
on which you can save money—you
fellows who s end so much of your
time in the saddle !
Men’s Oilskin Coats and Slickers—
All specially reduced. Ours are the
reliable kind that give every satisfaction.
Sale Prices : 10/6, 15/6, 18/6,21/=,
24/=, 26/6.
Saddle Twist Trousers— Good, hard-
wearing cloths in grey and brown,
splendidly finished and best quality
Trimmings ; all sizes in stock in Walking
Style or Stockman’s Cut.
Usually 8/11 10/6 12/6
Sale Price 7/11 9/3 11/3
Real Venetian Whipcord Trousers—
The Big Block Special Quality, in three
shades, fawns and greys ; sizes 3 to 7.
Superior finish. Stockman’s Cut. Usual
Advertised Price, 13/11; Sale Price, 12/6.
You will be wise to secure a few pairs of
these, while the Sale is on. Also the
boots you need—and the underwear and
sundries—order them now, too. We’ll
send you a Sale Catalogue if you give us
your address.
FINNEY, ISLES
& Go., Limited,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANALAND
“ C.S.A.” : I’m thinking about a syndicate
for the purpose of “ cornering” all the muleslin
Queensland, in view of a very possible emergency.
All the hinterland west of Cairns depends for its
food and beer supply on the precarious, semi-
aerial line of railway from Cairns to Kuranda. A
chunk of No. 10 tunnel got loose recently and held
up traffic for a considerable time, and some of the
thirsty towns west Were down to their last
“shikker” before traffic was restored. In the
event of the recent earth tremors extending to this
locality, the position will be serious, as the old
pack-tracks are not now negotiable for anything
but mules; and mules are almost as scarce as
saints or icebergs in North Queensland. If Kidston
doesn’t provide an alternative route, anything may
happen at any time, even without the help of a
stray earthquake.
Queensland’s latest white elephant is a
“ road train,” imported some 12 months ago by
the Railway Department. Up to date the in-
come derived from it has amounted to about 1 per
cent, of the cost of upkeep, inasmuch as no dis-
trict in Southern Queensland possesses roads and
traffic suitable for its working. The last report
on its operations remarks that the road train will
“ have its first trial as soon as the road from Texas
to Inglewood is put in sufficient repair to bear
the weight.” It reminds one of Bob Phi Ip’s
Lindon Bates dredges, which were bought to
suit the Brisbane River, the discovery being
afterwards made that the Government would need
to buy another river to Suit the dredges.
A Brisbane reporter, visiting Bowen the
other day, made the horrifying discovery that
Bowenites, when conducting a funeral, instead of
resting the coffin on wooden blocks, allowed it to
rest on beer bottles—a species of vegetable which
abounds in the local cemetery. Some 40 or 50
years ago Bowenites refused to allow Bobby
Towns to build a boiling-down establishment near
their town, “ on account of the smell,” with the
result that Bobby took his tackle northward and
started a village that subsequently developed
into Townsville. On discovering their deadly
error Bowenites, it is alleged, took to resting on
beer bottles, and the habit is now so strong that
it follows them even into their coffins.
How far the madding cactus has spread in
Queensland is evidenced by the complaint of a
recent individual, who said that in one district he
drove for 32 consecutive miles without being able
to turn off the road on either side—all by reason
of the prickly swear. There are persistent state-
ments to the effect that the pear would more than
pay the bill for its own extinction—in fact, that it
could be turned into a vegetable worth cultivating
—by reason of its capacity for yielding petrol
spirit and sundries; and a more energetic
Government that the present one would im-
mediately put up a small distilling plknt
and bog in to make sure on this point. For if a
time comes when you can drive 320 consecutive
miles in many places without being able to turn
off by reason of pear, and then the distilling plant
is put up, and it is found that the pear has no
market value at all, and that there is nothing for
it but to borrow a billion quid to pay for clearing,
the delay will cost quite a lot of money. A Govern-
ment that isn’t trying every possible or plausible
device to rout an enemy of this size is too calm to
live. It isn’t as if there was no hurry. Every
time Kidston goes to bed the cactus eats another
square mile or so of his State.
Australian surveyors got a word of praise
from Governor Macgregor at the Queensland
Surveyors’ picnic the other day. When he went
to the West Coast of Africa as Governor he found
British surveyors employed there. Having seen
Queenslanders at the same job in Papua, he
thought Australians would do the work better,
and told the British Survey Office so. He got
permission to send to Australia for surveyors, and
they came right up to expectations—did more
work and stood the climate better than the
Britons.
In many Queensland State schools there
are teachers who have qualified in milk and cream
testing as the result of a course at the State Agri-
cultural College. The Farmers’ Federal Council
in the North is now asking the Government to see
that all teachers in dairying are learned in butter
fat, so that the precious wisdom may be passed on
to the youngsters. It -is also suggested that a
testing outfit should be sent to every State school
in a dairying centre, even if the blackboard and
the history hooks have to be thrown out on to the
rubbish heap to make room for it. Poor kids !
And poor Queensland !
ASTRONOMIC.
FRIEND: "Whatever d'ye see in fightin', Bill?”
BILL (regretfully): “Stars, mostly.”
Various Acts—a sheaf of them—passed by
the Bananaland Parliament in the past session
have just been issued. They carry this inscrip-
tion—
In Anno Primo Georgii Quinti Regis.
Isn’t it rot?
“ Quan ” : Who is the sheep king of Aus-
tralia? I thought Sam McCaughey was, but
lately read that Edmund Jowett has 10 sheep
stations, and shears the wool off over a million
jumbucks annually. On one station alone—
Kynuna—over 200,000 sheep lost their coats last
year; so I’m beginning to doubt whether
McCaughey isn’t a mere pretender.
Blackberry is Bananaland’s latest vege-
table pest. It is dotted over an area of about 350
square miles in the Stanthorpe district, though
so far none of the patches cover more than a few
perches. The inspector under the Diseases in
Plants Act says that few of the landowners are
doing anything to get rid of it, and he has
warned them that if they don’t do something now
they may find it as hard to shift later on as
prickly pear. And that ought to be enough to tell
any Queenslander.
The leading member of the Brisbane Aero.
Club described in a half-column of the Courier
recently how he rose on his ’plane fully 10ft. in
the air and then came down with a smash. He
should take a few lessons from Auriol Barker,
Stock Inspector of the Cloncurry district, who
has invented a flier on the helicopter principle,
which, he alleges, will rise perpendicularly, hover
or poise, and doesn’t depend on wings or vanes at
all, “ the propeller being propeller and airship all
in one.” Certainly Barker hasn’t flown yet, in
which respect he shows himself eminently fitted
for membership of the Brisbane Club.
Rexona,
The Rapid Healer, is an ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-
fashioned ointments, which are very slow in their
action, Rexona speedily relieves after a very few
applications. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d
and 3s.*
The Dunlop Rubber Co., which prides itself on
a happy taste in calendars, has this year issued a Calen-
dar in half-mourning-, the feature whereof is a capital
portrait of the late King- Edward, beautifully repro-
duced. Hidden away under the months and dates is the
modest announcement that Syd Day is the Printer.*
Peace—Peace!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY glibly talk of Coming Peace,
Of mortals who shall break the sword,
And cultivate the corn and fleece,
And live like brothers in the Lord.
And yet, with combat fierce and fell.
The while they talk our Fiesh is rife;
For endless battling, dour as Hell,
In ev’ry blood-drop— that is Life.
Without the beat of battle drum
The fierce Bacilli front the fray ;
The Phagocyte battalions come
And madly fight and madly slay.
And ev’ry germ that builds a nest
And breeds a little familie,
Will quickly find him dispossessed
Unless with vim and valiancy
He lifts his voice in battle whoop,
And sallies forth to win renown,
And cheering on his microbe troop
Prepares to cut invaders down ;
And when the strenuous fight is won,
Sets out with all his victor train
To carve the foe whose race is run
And dine in peace upon the slain.
And knowing this Eternal Strife
Is raging high in blood and brain—
That, if it perished, gone were Life
And stagnant all were ev’ry vein—
How can we be a peaceful race,
When neither host of germs will yield ;
When ev’ry vein’s a burial-place,
And all our blood’s a battle-field !
When ev’ry mild pacific saint
Is blent of battling spawn and spore,
And bears about without complaint
A corpus packed with civil war ?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. January 7, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The MacGregor went to the races on Monday,
and our Vision, just returned from the frivolities
of the South, floated in a tender shade of
amethyst beneath a hat that was merely a deep
flounce of lace circled with black velvet. The
weather turncock opened the cool-breeze tap, and
a fairly large attendance gratefully remembered
him between bets.
Talking of hats. A still small voice complains
gently over about half a mile of telephone wire
that the chic little cadey which, worn on the head
of Miss Feez, charmed the Australia recently in
Sydney never saw the light of Paris. It was
good Australian, the builder and contractor being
our own Finney, Isles and Co.’s Miss De Groen,
who likewise crowned ma and the Wilson warbler.
The exodus for the decoration of George V. has
begun in earnest, and the packers-up include quite
a number of the godly. The rector of Beaudesert
and Mrs. Hone (she who came out to the shelter
of the Chelmsford couple, and was married from
their little hut) are off;; also Canon and Mrs.
Tomlin and the Osborn couple. Miss Daisy
Clifton goes by the next Oriertt boat; the Ross-
Munros are being tea-welled prior to departure ;
and the Anning mother and tivo daughters have
already embarked.
A pal sends me the following advertisement
from a Cairns newspaper, with the pious hope
that we may take a simultaneous header :
OPEN . . .
CITY BATHS
and
REFRESHMENT ROOMS.
MIXED BATHING EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT.
Every Gentleman must have a Lady Partner.
Now, is the lady partner merely to act as chaperon
to her gentleman, or is Cairns going the entire
bacon ?
The big crimson motor-car of the Willcocks
family once more honks through the streets, with
the sole remaining daughter looking very fresh
after her southern tour. Talking of family links
reminds me that Mrs. Major McLaughlan, who
was Winnie Hicks of this city, presented the clan
with a fine boy as a Christmas bpx.
Thargomindah, my. dear, the Town Hall has
again eluded us. It was on the point of getting
that long-delayed stone laid, when somebody dis-
covered that there must be another poll to con-
sent to the borrowing of the necessary £lBO,OOO.
Then another person, by the name of Overell,
found out that the city couldn’t afford it, or if it
could afford it, that it should pay up and not
pass the bill on to the baby, and he persuaded so
many other people to think so that the loan pro-
posal was defeated. So the foundation-stone, in-
stead of being safely tucked away in its little
granite bed, is in the air again, and goodness
knows when it will come down. I don’t know
goodness, so I can’t tell you anything definite.
A daughter of Courier Editor Knight changed
her name on Wednesday last to Stokes. The
bridegroom has to do with the Kingaroy-Nanango
railway extension, and is an engineer. It was a
pretty knot-tying in old St. Mary’s Church,
Kangaroo Point, with a lot of good wishes and a
handsome contribution to the family plate from
the Courier inhabitants.
dntTwo?fl he tn *j° ha PP e, ”ngs during the holi-
days was the accident which befell Miss Mildred
Mr« d ’R^ ght /lL an< ? ° nly daughter of Mr. and
Miw Rnml ’°, •, t^e A. M.P. Society, Ipswich.
Miss Boyd, while staying near Toowoomba, left
l SS S v hOUS ? ]aSt Sunday on horseback to
attend church, and wasfound some hours later lying
on the road with a fractured skull. Since then she
has not been conscious for more than a few
moments. Another heart-breaking piece of bad
hick was the drowning at the Barron Falls of
Mass Dorothy Parkinson, the plucky girl who
dived off the Redcliffe Pier not a year ago and
saved the lue of an old lady who had fallen over-
board. , it is understood that the Royal H umane
oociety s award for this piece of bravery was on
its way to find Miss Parkinson when she passed
o where medals are a mere cipher compared with
the other awards for the good life.
K' ds . ton - who has solved the problem of
the Coronation by deciding to stay at home, has
ano ler problem on hand. This is the appoint-
ment of a commission to control the camps on the
to-be-borrowed railway lines, as well as to find the
men to compose the camps to be controlled by the
commission that Kidston appointed. Sounds like
a nursery rhyme, doesn’t it ? Rumor has it that a
special agent will be sent to Europe to recruit
men to swing the shovel and the pick. Two
thousand are wanted.
Governor Macgregor, orating latelv on the
virtues of Scotchmen, a congenial topic, re-
marked : Ihree things have made Scotsmen—
pride, parritch and parish schools!” But isn’t
nere a fourth—their nous in quitting the country
they ever after spout so furiously about ?
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
A few years ago people used to speak of
Maoriland, Victoria and Tasmania as the “sana-
torium colonies”—the parts in which the sub-
tropical Australian might rest and pull himself
together. As to Queensland —the black man’s
country—it was never mentioned without a
shudder. To-day the death-rate stands thus:—
Queensland .. .. 1039 per 100,000
Maoriland .. .. 1090
Tasmania ni4 ”
Victoria .. .. *] 1174 ”
Only one State—South Australia—beats Banana-
land’s record, with the phenomenally low figure
of 993. London, one of the healthiest cities in
Europe, is proud of its 1350; and the figures for
Canada (Ontario) are several points worse than
that. Queensland’s death-rate certainly was pretty
high once ; but it has been shrinking so regularly
of late years that some sanguine Bananalnnders
forecast its disappearance altogether.
One of Bananaland’s interesting relics of
the blacks of other days is at Mafeking station.
On the top of a hill on the run there are several
caves, the walls covered with rude drawings
which the present black brother knows no more
about than he does of Greek. The local opinion
is that centuries ago one tribe held the fort there.
Australia doesn’t own many other cases in which
the blacks did any excavating for residential or
fortification purposes, though the natives carved
plenty of rocks, and on the Consuelo Tableland
there are enough bones and other remains in one
cave to fill a fair-sized boat. Some attempt
ought to be made to reproduce all these rock
carvings. If a complete collection of them were
made it might be easier to piece together a mean-
ing out of them.
“The Prodigal ” : Many people, especially
in Rockhampton, believe that the late John
Blair, of the local Bulletin, was the old bird that
hatched most of Kidston’s schemes;, and it is
more certain that the details were polished up by
Blair’s pen before they were submitted to the
people of Queensland. The present railway
scheme was, for instance, a pet idea of Blair’s for
years. “What will Kidston do now without his
Blair?” Rockhampton is asking. Some of it
thinks the Premier will collapse like a house of
cards. At any rate, Blair has been a valuable
prop for years, and the Rockhampton Bulletin
was Kidston’s ablest paper defender in Queens-
land ; so the Government has reason to go into
mourning for a period of six months at least.


r*"\ /
; ■
1,1 II rnmam
;•* -X -‘.-s-V,; . •
0&
■
m
'■ ***'*£, k\\
m-
W-J,
k\U C
muM
iUA
3\
m
mw.
m
m
m
r
>*■
W
YV'.
m&m
am
*. at*
X- X
vT2»
n~M>
mmm
> . /■£
: — r
<"**•■%*
V
r v <
SSI
. m
4
m
m
**22
frfLlt*
- V /X'
i ; \
M
n
Si
n
ss?.*
iii
«ss
r ' >-...WV.-v,--.-. ,■■■■. ■; >?
' hi I.** L&
mm
X. 5 . ‘
X X, .
i
•_-
. # ' £/
I
i
I
as**
r/M
•i
fffl
: ' 7
11 mm
m
i ■><*
...... fj
Kill
ssiia
*
raw*
1
a
Wunderlich- Ceilings
Art and Utility Triumphant.
THE artistic nature and practically indestructible qualities of the WUNDERLICH ART METAL CEILINGS
combine to make them one of the most triumphant successes of modern manufacturing.
If your present Ceilings do not comply with the canons of the modern aesthetic movement, instal the
Wunderlich Art Metal. This material can be easily fixed over old ceilings by any tradesman. They will make the
old home look new, and will also place an improved selling value on your property.
YOU SAVE MONEY in more ways than one. The Wunderlich Metal Ceilings once installed require
little attention. There are no cracks or crevices ; no broken parts to fall down and cause annoyance, if not actual
damage. The price you pay for a Wunderlich Ceiling eliminates the repairer’s bill, for the saving in cleaning and
renovating other materials is considerable. You buy Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings with the assurance of efficient
Architects and practical Builders that they are the best in quality of material ; perfect in workmanship ; true to size
and pattern ; and the construction and finish adequate for all requirements, be it for cottage or mansion. You can
make sure of the WUNDERLICH MATERIALS, for our TRADE MARK is on every sheet. This trade mark is
our guarantee that you will receive the best in materials, workmanship and design.
We are ready at all times to prove to you the value of Metal Ceilings, and most confidently solicit a trial
order. Send us sizes and particulars of one room.
See Trade MarK is on Every Sheet.
Wunderlich Ceiling's are Made in Australia.
Visit our Showrooms and inspect our work, or we will mail to you post free our illustrated Catalogue of
beautiful designs.
Marseilles Roofing' Tiles.— These tiles make a perfect roof for the Australian climate,
inasmuch as they are weather-proof and durable. They give a cool interior and an artistic exterior to the home. We
carry a large stock at all our Depots throughout the Commonwealth.
Write to us for estimate of Marseilles Tiles and Terra Cotta Roofing Accessories. Catalogue of Roofing
Accessories post free.
Wunderlich Ltd.,
SYDNEY : 50 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE: 243 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: King William Street.
BRISBANE: 363-5 Queen Street.
LAUNCESTON: St. John’s Street.
HOBART: Collins Street.
PERTH s Lord Street. NEW ZEALAND Agents: Messrs. Briscoe &, Co., Ltd.
ĝ gh


Nearly Wild with Painful, Burning
Eruption—Half Her Hair Fell Out
and Combing It Was Torture-
Feared She Would be Bald.
IN DESPAIR UNTIL
CURED BY CUTICURA
"Just about two years ago, some form
of humor appeared on my scalp. The
beginning was a slight itching but it
grew steadily worse until, when I combed
my hair, the scalp became raw and the
ends of the comb-teeth would be web
with blood. Most of the time there was
an intolerable itching, in a painful,
burning way, very much as a bad, raw
burn, if deep, will itch and smart when
first beginning to heal. Combing my
hair was positive torture. My hair was
long and tangled terribly because of the
blood and scabs. This continued grow-
ing worse and over half my hair fell
out. I was in despair, really afraid of
becoming totally bald.
‘‘Sometimes the pain was so great
that, when partially awake, I would
scratch the worst pl&oes so that my fin-
ger-tips would be bloody. I could nob
sleep well and, after being asleep a short
time, that awful stinging pain would
commence and then I would wake up
nearly wild with the torture. A neighbor
said it must be salt rheum. Having
used Cuticura Soap merely as a toilet
soap before, I now decided to order a
set of the Cuticura Remedies—Cuticura
Soap, Ointment and Pills. I used them
according to directions for perhaps six
weeks, then left off, as the disease 6eemed
to be eradicated. But toward spring,
eighteen months ago, there was a slight
return of th© scalp humor. I com-
menced the Cuticura treatment at once,
Bo had very little trouble. On my scalp
I used about ono half a cake of Cuticura
Soap and half a box of Cuticura Oint-
ment in all. The first time I took six
or seven bottles of Cuticura Pills and
the last time three bottles—neither an
expensive or tedious treatment. Since
then I have had no scalp trouble of any
kind. Standing up, with my hair un-
bound. it comes to my knees and had
it not been for Cuticura I should doubt-
less be wholly bald.
“ This is a voluntary, unsolicited testi-
monial and I take pleasure in writing
it, hoping nvy - experience may help some-
one else. Miss Lillian Brown, R. F, D. 1,
Liberty, Me., U. S. A., Oct. 29 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
JKg“Post-free, Latest Cuticura Book on the Skin.
DR. HARTMANN’S
ANTINEURASTHIN etiKSfe?
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells must
be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in the formlof
tonics or sedatives, which give temporary relief, but
cannot effect permanent improvement.
.Lecithin is the ONLY substance by which the brain and'
nerves can be nourished ; and it is Lecithin which the sys-
tem requires in all eases of neurasthenic conditions
(Nervous disorders, Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Brain-Fag,
Insomnia, Depression, Insanity, etc.). If the brain and
nerves can be supplied sufficiently with Lecithin, the cure
is certain; Antineurasthin supplies that substance and
effects the cure.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the ONLY known preparation
containing an effective percentage of Lecithin in an
active organic state ; completely assimilable, and with its
valuable principles undiminished in any way. '
A sample of Antineurasthin, together with a valuable
treatise on Nervous Disorders, will be despatched by
return mail by the wholesale distributor for Australia and
New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane, on
receipt of ninepence in stamps. [2
HEALTH AND
HAPPINESS!
ğh gh
Electricity is a remedy provided by Nature.
If you are drugging and dbSing yourself
STOP! and give Nature a chance to cure you.
If ypu suffer from Nervousness, Debility,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, or any Chronic Ailment
or Weakness, ELECTRICITY, as applied by
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt,
will cure you—if you are curable.
Rfinlf Write at once for our free
u U UIV. jjqqJj which tells all about
our Belt—how it cures and what it costs.
THE MeLAUGHLIN CO.,
12 Linden Court, Sydney.
Free
BY PURCHASING The Lone Hand each
month you encourage Australian Art and
Literature. It costs Sixpence.
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying: since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. RLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyard Street, SYDNEY.
gĥ
Price
The Ideal Summer
Shoe for Ladies.
Beauty, daintiness, adaptability and ease of fit
were never better exemplified than in the fine
ohoe here illustrated—it is one of the latest and
most fashionable models.
PRICE 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d.; other States, 1/- extra.
GAZEKA SHOE PASTE, in Black and
Brown, large tin, 6d.
Write for Booklet, “Shoelight.”
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; 1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne!]!
INFLUENZA
TRADE
MARK
Never neglect theshivery, sneezy, headachy symptoms
of Influenza, take Freeman’s—the Original—Chlorodyne.
Invaluable also for Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Consumptive
Cough, Diarrhoea, Rheumatism, Ague, and all Nerve Pain.
Recommended by Doctors
; for over sixty-five years. Price 1/I|, 2/9 & 4/6 per bottle.
Freeman’s Chlorodyne does not cause Headache.
ĝh
If your Chemist is
out of stock, order
h bottle, he can
quickly get it.
NEVER accept
imitations.
FREEMAN'S
CHLORODYNE
ĥ
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country, Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 5 Spring Street, Sydney.
Cigarette Smokers
Ruined.
Fearful Death List amongst Young Men l
The death-list caused by excessive smok-
ing of tobacco and cigareites is an appalling
one in Australia, where men in thousands
become nervous and commercially-useless
wrecks.
Daily the sacrifice of human wrecks goes
on, the certain system of slow poisoning by
nicotine being proved by the yearly death-
list. Nicotine is one of the deadliest pois-
ons known to science, and no man can be
healthy whose blood is steeped in it. The
nervous system must suffer, as well as the
heart, liver, lungs and brain.
Would You Like To Be Strong-?
You can soon overcome the habit or vice
of smoking and eradicate every trace of the
poison from vour blood by taking a course
of “ SMOKURE ” Tablets, the great French
specific and nicotine antidote. This re-
markable remedy restores nerve and heart
strength, makes the brain and body vigor-
ous. Send stamps to
THE NICOTO-MANIA TABLET CO.,
75 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth St., Sydney,
for free particulars sent to :any address.
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE
Famous Schebkr Carburetor
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
Eau deCologne
FIDELITAS
Mull
f.Wolff&Sohn
• •Karlsruhe ©■if
Baden Hffl
Hi
Triumph of
Modern Science
The Inky Way.
Hassan ’•: Just formed, in Melbourne, the Australian
Journalists’ Association, which will be registered under
the Federal Arbitration Act. It is by far the strongest
organisation yet formed by writers in Australia. Ouri
ously enough, it was forced upon the staffs of three
big Melbourne papers, not through any oppression on the
part of the proprietors, who treat their staffs well, but
through the fear that unless the three staffs aforesaid
organised, some less representative crowd might do so
and set conditions for the whole of the journalists of
Victoria. Most of the men on the Argus and the Age
are receiving salaries which cannot be affected favor,
ably by any enforced award, and, if they are able
to prevent it, the Association will not be a fre-
quent customer at the Arbitration Court counter. The
Association cannot do the men of the Argus and
Age much good ; but their step has been taken
so that no irresponsible union of freelances and
juniors and ill-paid country pressmen shall do them
any harm. Most of them do not want unionism,
but as it had to come, they get in early to protect them-
selves. The great trouble in Sydney is the trouble of the
“juniors,” who are raw hands joining the papers at 30s.
a week. These boys do staff engagements, and after a
while are put on the staff, where, in the course of several
years of hard work, they rise to the affluence of £3 10s.
or £4 a week. Then another paper engages them at £5
or £6, and the proprietors talk bitterly of ingratitude.
The Melbourne morning papers, recognising that a cheap
reporter is likely to prove expensive in the long run, are
careful to choose reliable men, and staff appointment’s on
the Age and Argus are reckoned the prizes of the profes-
sion. Three-ten or £4 a week is given to practically un-
tried but responsible men. I do not know any other
beginner in any trade better treated in this respect than
the cub-reporter of the Melbourne morning papers. As a
matter of fact, while the men are treated as liberally in
Melbourne as they have been in the past, the new'asso-
ciation will find precious little to do beyond settling-
conditions for casual work and the country paper staffs.”
* • * *
“Shark": Maoriland’s new libel law practically frees
newspapers from all liability in regard to accurate reports
of meetings and court and Parliamentary proceedings,
Unless malice is proved. Also separate actions on the
same libel are barred ; the actions must be consolidated.
The trouble over a recent pamphlet against Premier
Ward was responsible for a clause providing that the
person charged with defamation must prove “ public
benefit” before he proves truth. This provision is to
prevent mud-slinging ; but if public benefit and truth are
both proven, the mud-slinger goes free. Incidentally, it
may be mentioned that the much-abused pamphlet above
quoted was probably welcomed by Ward with a burst
of secret applause. Joseph had little to go to the coun-
try with in 1911, except New Year gifts for the electo-
rates out of the recent whale-like loan, and that sort of
fish is becoming unpalatable in M.L. Put, as the Man
Who Escaped the Assassin’s Knife, as the Injured
Innocent and the Persecuted Puritan, J. Ward will make
a grand tour through the ballot box, winding up with
another three years’ browse on the green fields of 1.0. U.
The S. M. Herald, reporting the “ great Liberal rally,’
at which Wade got the pieces of silver, made the ex-
Premier own to this: “ The Liberal cause is by no mean 3
dead. The flame of our policy is burning blightly.” The
linotype does it best. It knew there was a blight in the
“Liberal ” policy somewhere.
* * » #
“Tiki”: Two interesting young men, of Christchurch
(M.L.), are L. H. Booth (black and white artist) and John
Patrick (builder of short stories, verse, etc., chiefly for
Yankland and Fogland rnagas.), Both are Bulletin con-
tributors, and both are long and thin, with much hair
flowing in their wakes. Both dress well, but Patrick’s
taste in felt hats, socks and shoes is very fine. Some
mystery surrounds them ; they are suspected of collabo-
ration, and are at present supposed to be joyously
nursing a great secret. It is rumored that some of their
joint work is shortly to blaze forth in Noo Yark or else-
where, and, if Kumor isn’t a thundering liar, said work
is of a dramatic turn.
* * * *
“Jean S.” : W. Scarborough Jackson writes on British
black-and-white in the September Nineteenth Century.
Jackson's apparent conclusion is that the bulk of J. Bull’s
newspaper art is generally pleasing, often technically
valuable, but lacks the sustaining force of pungency.
Still, there’s some hope ; for Australia keeps the flag flying
more or less: “ A more pugnacious spirit is observable in
our younger nations, and in Australia, the most promis-
ing of our art colonies, the Sydney Bulletin, aided by
Norman Lindsay and others, jogs the padded ribs of
John Bull with something of the old-time vigor.” So I
can’t make up my mind whether The Bulletin ought to
blush with pride for being as vigorous as it is, or with
shame for being less vigorous than its old grandfather.
* * * *
“Penman”: Boj'S, there’s a white-chokered blackleg
in the camp. That’s the parson ; and if he isn’t checked
he will make it harder than ever for the poor toiling
pressman to stall off the rent-collector and buy the child
a frock. Most of him makes twice as much as the ruck
of us do, yet he comes sneaking into the Australian
offices, doing a bit on the nod at first and winding up by
suggesting a gentle sweat to the obliging proprietor.
Bless you, he will do a leader for half a crown. He shoves
a spade under the musical critic and the book reviewer,
and would even do the theatres if he dared. The editor
mostly frowns on him, but editors, as you know, can’t
balance the scales these times if there’s only an ounce of
profit on the employer’s side. I don’t know what we’re
going to do about the clerical blackleg; at least, I
wouldn’t like to mention it in print.
THE IMPORTING EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tvvas a great and gifted writer, in a city by the sea,
Who had never seen a wheatsheaf in his life,
And who didn’t know a pumpkin from a paddymelon-
tree ;
Or if shearers cut the wool off with a knife !
Farther out than Parramatta he was never known to
roam ; •
And it’s doubtful if so far he ever got!
He divided all his time between his office and his home ;
And he started teaching squatters how to squat i
This great and gifted editor
Was everybody’s creditor !
His gifts of free instruction were his charm I
His city-bred ability
Afforded him facility
In teaching foolish farmers how to farm !
In regard to manufactures he’d opinions very strong ;
Very strong indeed, and palpably sincere !
And he held it to be sinful and essentially wrong
For a jam-tin to be manufactured here !
Everything should be imported from some place beyond
the seas,
And inventors and improvers brought to book !
Which unique industrial policy the aborigines
Had enjoyed before the time of Captain Cook !
A man of vast ability
And marvellous agility
In proving three-times four were twenty-two !
He held, in all sincerity,
That national prosperity
Depended on the work one didn’t do !
He was apt to grow ferocious if he saw an effort made
To supply a local want, however small;
For his country (in his doctrine re the rights of foreign
trade)
Shouldn’t manufacture anything at all I
As to rings and trusts and combines: they, of course
were very well ’
If the rings and trusts and combines were abroad !
But his countrymen should sleep while there were foreign
goods to sell, b
And their laziness would be its own reward 1
A man of great capacity !
And wonderful sagacity!
All products from taxation he’d exempt,
Provided they were alien!
For anything Australian
He’d nothing but incurable contempt.
W. T. GOODOE.


Jam alittle-Frieiu)
toUlltho World-
0»
3s
f:
Business man,
traveller, clerk,
madam at home,
the boy at school,
journalist, minis-
ter, doctor, law-
yer, all who put
pen to paper aie
better off if I am
their daily com-
panion.
If I am with
you—you are al-
ways ready to
write. So am I.
And I neither
scratch nor splutter, blot the paper or
refuse to write when you want me to.
—I am British made.
—I never leak.
—I fill myself in a flash.
—1 clean myself in filling.
I am the perfect fountain pen—the
success of 1907. Everybody who uses
me says everybody else ought to have
me.
12/- (more for a larger size) makes
me your little friend for life. Pay it to
any stationer.
6*
e Pen
•• Fen Points— a booklet for the ready writer.”
Free on application to the Makers,
T. DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd.,
159 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
or the Australasian Representative,
NORMAN BAKER, 50 York Street, Sydney.
“ fTIHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
I he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in-.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that eaters for a Continent.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S |
hreeWttchcs
for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
n
5/5
s
MILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ Length, 12 Inches.
/ _ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.! [1
"<3t
m
Picture Showmen!
Competition in the Picture Business gets keener every day.
You can get a crowd still, but you can only keep them by
up-to-date sub-
jects and a real
good show.
Let us send
you our 1911 Cata-
logue of all sup-
plies—hints in it
on operating the
oldest hand can learn something from, and par-
ticulars of economy prices on everything needed in
the business.
HALF A MILLION FEET OF
FILM IN STOCK.
Get ahead of competitors and you’ll have
nothing to fear from them. We can help you—big !
Try us. Everything for the showman —from a
bottle of Cement to an Electrical Plant.
JERDAN’S,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney
TWO
m OIUY ,
TYRC ;
BUILT 08.
/□□Mine
PRINCIPLE/
■> '•
COft)
&
V
W¥
4.
03
,7V
c>
o
&
ol
?r
m
/ILVCRTOYm
DIIBBEB (?
Z79CEOCGE J T
! /YDftEY
7<r
<o.
Plum Razors—PerfeiJl Shavers !
These Plum Razors can’t be approached for the smooth
velvet shave they give you-r-never a hint of dragging, no
matter how strong the growth of stubble. They keep their
edge a long time—the blade is such finely tempered silver
steel; and. being practical Hairdressers, we put the right
shaving edge on every “ Plum ” before it goes out to the
buyer.° ° Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
Price 10/0
Post Free.
Get one of our
Moustache Train-
ers to wear at
night. It will'make
your moustache
grow into a nice
shape. 2/6 post free
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoieo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
A Voice from the
Distant Bush.
SINCERE TRIBUTE.
DORRIQO, Dec. 20, 1910.
Messrs. FISHER & CO.,
Dispensing Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs,
Will you please forward to me by first post the
following lines:— ,
1 Large Bottle of Fisher’s Phospherine 2/6
1 Box Fisher’s Beauty Pills 1 /”
1 Box Fisher’s Carbolic Tooth Powder ... ...
1 enclose Postal Note for same 3/10)4
N.B. I have very much pleasure in adding my testi=
mony to the wonderful restorative power of FISHER'S
PHOSPHERINE.
I have had many supposed remedies for “ That
Tired Feeling ” of Nerve and Brain, without much
benefit.
It was only as a kind of forlorn hope I took on
your remedy, and after using a couple of small bottles
I feel a different man, and intend to continue it.
I feel it is only fair to you, besides a feeling of
wishing to let others know, who, like myself, through
a sedentary occupation, are martyrs to Nerve and
Brain Fag. You are at liberty to use this as you like.
I am, etc.,
F. WARD,
Tailor and Mercer, Dorrigo, N.S.W.
ENOUGH SAID !
“Fisher’s” Phospherine, I/- fit 2/6
“FISHER’S” Phospherine is sold outside of New South Wales under the name of
FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC ; therefore always ask for FISHER’S GREAT NERVE
TONIC. All Chemists in Commonwealth.
Fisher’s Beauty Pills, 1/-
POST FREE to all parts of the World. All Medicines and Chemist’s Sundries of Highest
Quality at the Lowest Prices in Sydney. Postage according to weight.
OLD ORKNEY
WHISKY.
Old
orknev
The unvarying
excellence of Old
Orkney Whisky
is due to the fact
of its being made under absolutely
hygienic conditions in the old-time
way and thoroughly matured,
McConnell’s Distillery Ltd.,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents:
SYDNEY—Tooheys Ltd.
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd,
ADELAIDE —Lord & Heseltine.
LAUNCESTON —John McKenzie & Co.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
REAL
UOJ.IfJ.IJ}
i 7
■4
v -
§
0
\Y^
A 5
00
QRIU\^
vc3>
H CoiiHEtCs Distillery L t ?
Proprietors of
OTROMNCSS DISTILLERY.
Orkney. Scotland
SCOTCH TO
WARE OLD


Missing; Friends.
FS. MOOR, late of Ruby Yale, via
# Rockhampton.
Kindly send address to
E. HART, 204 BONDI ROAD, SYDNEY.
OTTO A. GERBER.
WILL above—who was Assayer in 1908-9, of
Abbontiakoon G. M. Coy., Tarkwa,
West Africa, previously of Westralia—please
communicate with
A. GILLHAM,
. Post Office, FREMANTLE.
Wanted.
PAINT TRADE.
4 GENT WANTED, with established con-
nection, to sell high-class painting brushes
on commission. Apply, giving full particulars,
to THOMAS PEYTON & CO., Brush Manu-
facturers, Manchester, England.*
ARTISTS. Why not Exhibit in
The World’s Art Market
Fourth Annual London Salon,
CORONATION YEAR?
Membership (10s. entrance and £lls. p.a.) entitles artists
to show three works, one on line. Frames need not be
sent. Particulars from ALLIED ARTISTS’ ASSOCIATION,
LTD., 68 Chancery Lane, London, W.Ci
Amusements.
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ 1 Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
AN ABSOLUTE SENSATION,
BIGGER THAN THE BIGGEST PANTOMIME.
The Wonderful Drury Lane Drama, by Cecil Raleigh
and Henry Hamilton,
THE WHIP.
Interpreted by A .COMPLETE.LONDON COMPANY
Specially Selected by Mr. J. O. Williamson.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
JHEATRE RO
_ Y A L, SYDNEY.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUR MISS GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
PALACE THEATRE, SY DNE Y.
Direction .. HUGH .J. WARD.
SYDNEY’S PREMIER LAUGHING ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEES WEDNESDAYS.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY OF
COMEDIANS,
including MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
in the Brilliant Farcical Comedy Triumph,
THE GIRL FROM RECTOR’S
Plan at Elvy's. Prices—s/-, 8/-, 2/-, 1/-
Criterion theatre, Sydney.
EVERY EVENING.
Return of the CLARKE and MEYNELL COMIC OPERA
CO. in
THE ARCADIANS.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY of the New Prima
Donna, WINIFRED O’CONNOR, and Last Appearances
in Australia of WILLIAM CROMWELL.
Box Plan now open at ELVY’S.
U M, SYDNEY.
Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICTU IIES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
"THE GLACIAR
■ Opposite Railway Station
JHE (NEW) MAORI VILLAGE,
CLONTARF.
THE MOST FASCINATING ATTRACTION
OF ALL.
50 MAGNIFICENT MAORI MEN and
LOVELY MAORI MAIDS IN THEIR
NATIVE HABITS AS THEY LIVE.
EASY ACCESS FROM ALL PARTS
OF SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
PRICES—ONE SHILLING ; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
“ OUR HEBREW FRIEND,” JULIAN ROSE, Humorist.
SIX AMERICAN DANCERS, Stylish Steppers.
THE BLESSINGS, Equilibrists and Balancers.
Continued Success of MR. FRANK HARWOOD,
GODFREY JAMES, FRED BLUETT,
THE QUEALYS, HARRY LINDEN,
FANNY POWERS, HILDA LANE,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickard;.
COOPER & LAIT, Comedy Sketch Artists.
BARNOLD’S ANIMAL ACTORS.
ROUSBY’S FLASHLIGHT SCENES AROUND PARIS.
WOODS & FRASER, Comedy Sketch Artists.
HOWARD and FOY in Comedy and Magic.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Pinyets.
OLGA MONTEZ.
Plan at Allan’s. XW PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
M
AX MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC COMPANY.
H. M. THEATRE, BRISBANE.
THIRD “ BOOM ” WEEK.
IN LONDON TOWN ” “ A WOMAN’S REVENGE.”
Amusements.
HE LYCEUM
.EVERY EYENING AT B
Matinels-Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
C PENCER'SIheaTKJCOPE <s
J PICTURES
'<* rfHE SUPER.IO& ro All OTffEJZ.3.
Popular Prices Plan at Palings.
■pHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o'clock sharp.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S ENTIRELY NEW
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE GAY GORDONS.
A Fascinating Musical Play, containing the Best
Features of Comic Opera, Pantomime and Comedy.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 14,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NF.W DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in a New Version of
THE CHRISTIAN.
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN as GLORY QUAYLE.
MR. ROY REDGRAVE as JOHN STORM.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 2s. and Is.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
r Direction of GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC CO.
in Frederick Melville’s Great Bedroom Drama,
THE BAD GIRL of THE FAMILY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Reserved Seats, 4/-
|_JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Funny
Pantomime,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
For which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS,
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been organised
)uch as has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
\Af EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, the best
OF ALL. ‘ LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The'Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—fid, ro 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
1 EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices-2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. , Matinees —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
Q PEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. HILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE HOLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, •!/-, 6d.
WIRTHS ©LYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
Matinees-Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 2 -JO.
C PENCERStHEATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
-a pee super, ion ro ell or hers *»
Popular Prices Plam as Usual»i>
Business Announcements.
The Minute Button Camera
Takes, Develops and Completes an
Excellent Portrait in One Minute.
gh
PRACTICALLY
SELF-ACTING
NO KNOWLEDGE of
PHOTOGRAPHY
NEEDED.
NO DARK ROOK 1
NO FOCUSSING
NO PRINTING
NO TROUBLE
SPLENDID FOR PIC-
NICS S EXCURSIONS
Any child can
produce Good
Pictures.
In This Style. CAM'ill A DOES IT ALL
'T'HE Complete Ouifit for only Five Shillings, including
the Camera, with fine periscopic lens, a handy tripod
stand, two magazines loaded with sir plntes, a developing
tank, developing fluid ready for use, lifring magnet and fully
illustrated printed directions. Additional magazines, with
three plates, Four Pence each, or Is. 3d. for Four Magazines.
Everything is quite simple and easy. Takes really good por-
traits, that will last a life-time. Take the outfit in your
pocket to a pic-nic or excursion and everyone will he delight-
ed with the excellent pictures you will take. Send for a
specimen picture in frame for Sir Pence, that will he allowed
off price of Camera. Obtainable only from the Sole Agents,
The Union Manufacturing Co. y
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
WHY SUFFER FROM ASTHMA?
You can be relieved. ASTHMATITE, the
Great Asthma Remedy, will immediately
. ease all the distressing symptoms, stop the
choking, disperse the phlegm, build up the
system and ensure sweet sleep. 2/- and 4/- post
free. Trial packet posted for three penny stamps.
> H. YOUNGMAN, Wilmott Street, Sydney.
gh
ĝ
ğ
YOU CAN Grow a MOUSTACHE !
YOUR friends are saying you look “ such a boy,” and remark amongst
themselves that you can’t grow a moustache ! .You mightn’t hear —
but it’s what they say. You CAN grow a moustache—and
CAPILLARINE is the stuff that’ll do itfOryou. Thirty years’use has proved
its value—never a failure in all that time. Of course some men grow them
quicker than others—but in all cases CAPILLARINE forces a luxurious
growth where before there was only light fluffy white down on the upper lip.
The C- & A. Trainer makes the moustache a nice shape. Worn at night. 2/6 p.f.
CAPILLARINE costs 10/6 Jar Post Free Anywhere In Plain Package.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 30 Years.
15
A
PROSPECTUS OF
The AUSTRALIAN PURE FOOD
MEAT SUPPLIES LIMITED
(To be registered under the Companies Acts, N.S.W., 1899-1906;.
CAPITAL - £50,000
(Divided into 50,000 Shares p f £,l each.)
14,513 Shares of £1 each are to be issued as fully paid-up to the Vendors in part
payment of consideration due to them.
15,487 SHARES OF £1 EACH ARE OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION, payable ss.
per share on Application, ss. per share on Allotment, and the balance in
Calls as required.
20,000 SHARES ARE HELD IN RESERVE FOR FUTURE ISSUE, as and when
the Directors may consider expedient.
50,000
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
WILLIAM CLIFTON, 120-130 Abercrombie Street, Sydney.
SAMUEL ERNEST CALDWELL, 113 Botany Street, Redfern.
.WILLIAM HENRY PEPTER, Woodburn Street, Redfern.
JOSEPH RILEY, 737 Harris Street, Utlimo.
The Company s Board will consist of the above, and their number may be added to at the first
jeneral Meeting of Shareholders.
SOLICITOR:
A. W. E. WEAVER, Australasia Chambers, 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
THOMAS DAVIS & CO., Public Accountants, Sydney and Newcastle.
BANNERS:
LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
SECRETARY AND OFFICES (pro tem.) :
ERNEST R. G. WATERS, Australasia Chambers, 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company will acquire and amalgamate the well established and profitable businesses referred
to below. The intention is to gain the many advantages of amalgamation, to expand the business,
and to widen the scope of operations.
NATURE OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS.
. In addition to the Manufacture of Small Goods the Company will engage in the
important, industry of Meat Packing, arrangements to that end having been made The
business of Butchers will also be conducted. The particular feature will be the output of Dure food
meat supplies. r
ARRANGEMENTS WITH VENDORS.
An agreement has been entered into whereby the Vendors, who are practical business men
experienced in their trade, and have successfully conducted their businesses for years will be con
npcted with the active management of the Company for 5 years. Should they leave’the Company
they are restricted for 2j4 years thereafter from carrying on similar business to' the Company The
consideration to the Vendors for the undernoted Assets is 16s. id., of whiffi 2"3353 16s id
is payable in Cash and £14,513 in fully paid-up shares. The vendors will' personally
subscribe and pay cash for at least 1000 shares of the present issue.
BUSINESS AND ASSETS TO BE ACQUIRED.
There will be acquired as from 31st October, 1910, the assets, trade and goodwill of
the four businesses and two shops now conducted by A. W. Clifton, S. Caldwell and
Company, W. H. Pepper and Co., and J. Riley. The following independent valuations have
been obtained :
Machinery, Plant, Utensils of Trade, Horses, Carts, etc.
Stock in Trade ...
Book Debts (guaranteed by Vendors)...
Lease
Goodwill
£3-972 13 n
600 2 7
781 12 o
245 o o
12,267 7 7
£17,866 16 i
The Small. Goods Manufacturing will be carried on in the commodious premises, which
have been equipped in the most complete fashion by Mr. Clifton. The Public Health Act and Pure
Foods Act have been fully complied with, and the premises were opened by the Right Hon. the
Lord Mayor, Alderman Allen Taylor.
Meat Packing —Satisfactory arrangements have been made both as regards manufacture and
disposal of same, to ensure a considerable volume of business.
The records of the Vendors trading for the past three years have been investigated by
Messrs. Thomas Davis and Company, Public Accountants, Sydney ; the said Firm has also enquired
carefully into the economies likely to be effected by the amalgamation of the businesses.
PROSPECTIVE PROFITS.
The Accountants’ Report indicates that, after allowing for management and depreciation etc
the net profit on the Amalgamation of the present businesses may be stated at per annum ’’
This figure shows a return of 15 per cent, on a capital of £30,000. The bulk of
the working capital provided by the present issue of Shares will, however, be used in overtaking
fresh business. b
No reckoning has been taken in the above figure for the additional profits ex=
pected from the exceedingly important Meat Packing Business.
GENERAL MATTERS.
The businesses are specially well adapted for amalgamation. The Company will enjoy excep-
tional advantages in the direction of profit-earning by conducting both Meat Packing and Small
Goods Manufacturing.
Application will be made to the Stock Exchange for an official quotation of the
Company’s shares.
Brokerage of 3d. per share will be paid on applications through members of the Stock Exchange.
Expenses connected with the formation of the Company will be borne by the Company.
The Contracts for Sale and Purchase, dated 21st December, 1910, between the Vendors and
R. H. Cummmg, as Trustee for the Company, maybe inspected at the Office of the Company’s
Solicitor. , r J
, of l he c ,°mpany and Allotment of Shares will be proceeded with
aft , e r * O’OOO shares have been applied for. Where no allotment is made, application moneys
will be returned m full. J
Copies of the Prospectus and Forms of Application for shares in the Company
can be obtained from any Member of the Stock Exchange or from any of the parties whose names
appear above.
Already a large number of the available Shares have been bespoken.
APPLICATIONS SHOULD THEREFORE BE LODGED WITH THE COMPANY
AS EARLY AS POSSIBLE BY THOSE WHO DESIRE TO SECURE SHARES.


_ „ , on h n s nansenaer £3lO (full equipment Included).
Tmirinc Car, 4-cyl., 20-n.pt, o-paBseng«sr, v
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for AustrJ \ h J*"
“ FORDS are w features will be at once recognised by
thean”fr<>mhe con try af being absolute essentia.s =-
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4! Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
„ ssixsazs-xisst
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
%
/
Cooling —Satisfying
\
Montserrat
Lime Juice
A healthy drink for hot days and all days.
Good for the youngsters.
It communicates its own delightful purity and coolness to
the blood, and it quenches thirst better than stimulants,
ks delicious flavour appeals to everyone.
Made in two kinds — .
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice. Sweetened, U„ Lime Juice Cordial
Tshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
gUKTI
P
DEV
Fo
REST
HOW A LADY WORKED
THE “DEVIL.”
PANTON HILL,
17th October, 1910.
Messrs. J. GOOPER & SONS,
Dear Sms?-Just a few lines to let you know how we are getting along with the Bunyip
Enrest Devil father bought from you three weeks ago. Bather says it is the BESI
M ACHINE HE HAS EVER USED, and he has seen and used a good many, and is very
oleased with it. I must let you know a little what we have done with it. Our tr ®®®
mostly white gum, box, and messmate. We have uprooted trees that were 4f t. bin. n
diameter, or so thick that the anchor rope was just big enough to goroundthemwithonly
father and myself on the lever. There was one giant that, when I said to pull it, lathe
seemed verv doubtful, and told me to wait until my brothers came home from school, but I
there so peeph/can MSK ! S6jS?f iT?
future, yours truly, >
John Cooper # Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
V
UNDER VICE-REGAL
hg
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
Will Andrade for BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
al9o Supplementary Cata-
logue Of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Kblly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/.. Wrestling, by Prank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
10d One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
vgg~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
ĝ
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, I<-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Thk Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
JA.Y
&
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women ana children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
rr
!
m*
m
i
AGIC?
YSTERY
AND
IRTMI
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party -don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and fmmy as he bj instru ctions with each
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple n you
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
m.
m
r '
,o
% a
\
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position-on top of finger
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
'O
PK
VS 9 b
The Wonderful Plate=Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance_ quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/-post free.
4 \nt%xt
•§
\o
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet, puzzles them all till they
knowhow. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dieting fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET
SYDNEY.


©
_ National Arms Co.'s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
ri*b‘left fnff’ f . u^ b a r interchangeable locks, Greener cross
w-ilnuf itnr-l- o ’ eft J 1 ’ ri - fr | lt modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grin
weight ° f i2 - gauge ab ° ut 6 « i,) - to 7ib -’
Ot ib n auge hi b to 6£lb. DELIVERED,
\v e can s “PP'y thls Gun in 20-gauge, at 14/- extra.
lions, ean > thVrouffhlv'rpr 0r the “a 0 ' 6 Gun ’ which has been made t 0 our own specifica-
oroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
67/6
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
1 2-g Huge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel
about 6ilb. Gun c:
Barrel Gun.
barrel, 30in
an be taken
. pistol grip,
apart, same
, walnut stock,
as an ordinary
weight
Double
hg
Postage—2/6N.S.VV.
4/8 Inter-State. ’
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Our
Special
Snaps.
Send for our Illustratec
Sports, Fishing and
Tobacco Lists, FREE.
THE MAINE ~
<She using Q/fie /tparr.
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple con-
sisting of very few parts The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Riffle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
15\-
ĝ
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued
steel barrel, weight 3Jib.,
Or with Sliding Sights
16/6
21-
Postag-e—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State
Head Depot, HA YMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc,, anti
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
gh
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
InYagreefo Znlthem ° l E ° lulion o{ ihe Fuzzle we hereby undertake
subiect to the P O U N D S
Twl < it U j a d tb ® enor| nous demand for our PICTURE POST Paptic: .
Method of advertising, with the object of makimr our namo m CA^ D 1 Sl , we hav e devised this simple
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of bfains to maC • n ° W "’ and to introd «oe our
aboutust ° -nr
raiin the missing TO DO ,S T HIS:
O R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V L.E IN a <5 r i a
for which we will send you Free a sampll packet of thfrty Z) s 'leJ?*’ a P ° stal Note for 2 /*>.
y° ur solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight As ?° r , tBd Post Card b and
bb,srew ardfor your se-vic^sfor showinv nnrp« . r , your prize of £5, and will ask you to
thlS themto »«“” da
Due h no r tfce Y* 8 * with . our Bankers (Bank N.S W.) a ‘ n3 and work> A °°P7
closing cftheCompe tit "on more ba “ fbefore the date of the
of £5 each will be awarded to thostf sending correct in \Z ”T™ *’ 0 “ e Hundr ®d Cash Prises
C u £en read , b ? the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD Ct? d3rln whlch their answers shall
Should your solution reach us b2for3 the
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER 3 watpct ll ? to our conditions, and
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to morethanonepS WATCH AND ®HAIN (Lady's or
and addressed to THE MANAGER nv bf attaohed Coupon which forms part of this competition.
FINE ART POSTCARD CO.,
hunter street.
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows :
Signed
Address
Date
What You Get
Not What You Pay
COUNTS.
m EAGLE
Built by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
h jhĝh
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU ?
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
BRISBANE.
Wholesale Only.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
Meltonian
PASTE.
BLACK and BROWN.
The best and also the cheapest
PASTE POLISH on the market
for cleaning, polishing, and
preserving all kinds of Leather
Boots* Shoes, Harness, &c.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
/aeaEWtM Bojtcau l
4POLISHING L| GLACE K[n
m
Afm 3TIAU. QUANTITY WITH BKI/SH
\HU6TOAPOU3H THEN FINISH
„ \wi t n tadoh soft cloth. s'
Made by the Manufacturers of the J "
“ MELTONIAN *• BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON
LTD., LONDON and PARIS.
/Blacking and Boot Polish)
Manufacturers, '
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Fixing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
Ho ato Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. ° Moll
r landers, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is
” indow Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1 s 3d. Quadrille Call Book
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
l°s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals)’,
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. ’New
Tricks .with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
H
H
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMRRACTNG •>
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pan-es
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
Whiel?thfv feel 1 1^, ocourto the nl j n . ds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapter"
TJITwV 0 r U '-‘ ,eral,,e investing subjects concerning ma^
which makes it a superior guide to the action of riien and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived,
l GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this <>reat wm-t- if ~,;n
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCR d t 0
W-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
-m
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c„ with full DirectX
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
"in at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post.. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
ls 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every-
man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy-, is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
s^'v^ T^^ 00K o F ' KI ' IXG ’ “ s - Elements of Social
K f* bd - HowMcDougall Topped the Score, &
a^s*® ES > Thr «ay Count, Is 3d. French
r!i I !, 2d ’ Wanna n’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
2.*,“ d posted - Vl,u '- K Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
,° F Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and many
NirV'r' a L 2s 6d ® ach Posted. Bride of the First
IhhtvAi f ' d ‘ WoMEN ’ s Secrets, is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. m~ Established K Year s
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
H°w to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. .New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is!
Practtcal Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring
is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d
MORGAN s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
8 Works, 8d > 2s - How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W
Reynolds Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Su- ir-
Boilkrs Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, lOOOillus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


INDIGESTION
Maddened by Agonising Pain-
Many Treatments Prove Useless.
ip
/
THE following remarkable Indigestion
Cure by Bile Beans proves the won-
derful efficacy of this great family
medicine. Bile Beans are of untold value to
the wage-earner who cannot affqrd to “lay
up” when in ill-health. While mild in action,
they quickly restore robust health and buoyant
spirits to the weak and depressed without
making “ lying up ” a necessity.
Mr. C. J. Brooks, residing at 352 Abercrombie
Street, Redfern, Sydney, is conversant with the
wonderful curative virtues of Bile Beans, and writes
the following letter for the benefit of fellow sufferers.
He says :—“ Indigestion troubled me for a long
time. I also suffered with the liver, which—
together with the Indigestion—accounted for the
terrible pains I experienced, which nearly drove
me mad. Insomnia also added to my misery. I
tried various remedies in the hope of alleviating
my sufferings, but without success. I was advised
to try Bile Beans, and decided to give them a
chance, and see if they would do me any good.
The results I have derived from Bile Beans are
most satisfactory. I underwent a course of the
B-ans to the extent of two boxes, when all the pain had disappeared, the Insomnia had
left me and lam once more myself. This having been my experience with Bde Beans, I
shall certainly recommend them to anyone whom I know requires a genuine Liver medicine.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
BILE BEANS, “because of their absolute purity and unfailing efficacy, are the Standard
Remedy for biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, nausea, pains in the
chest, flatulency, heartburn, anaemia, offensive breath, impure blood, loss of appetite, dis-
turbed sleep,debility, (
and all disorders of
the liver, stomach and
digestive organs. Bile
Beans are obtainable
from all chemists and
stores at 1/li. and 2/9
for large size (con-
taining three times
the 1/1 i size), or direct
from the Eile Bean
Manfg. Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
NATURE’S
REMEDY.
or
v:
ytie
Tea.ns
I/•'/'• FOR
mousness
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This bas been tbe
acknowledged 9 and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion*
The Choice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
needs must go to the Market Place,
//l/ Old men and young together,
r r For the wish is ours ancl the g ° ds
decree
That all shall journey thither.
Hie Huckster stands behind his stall
And loud of lung he bellows :
'' Now take your choice and pay your price,
And go your way, good fellows.
Bv Bacchus! ” shouts a rosy youth,
“Give me red wine—good measure.
•• I’ll stint you not,” the Huckster cries,
“ An’ may it bring you pleasure.
“By Venus ! Give me love,” sighs one—
“ High love that scoffs at reason.”
“ ’Tis yours, wrapped up in rose and rhyme
And spiced with ancient treason.
“ Now, marry ! Come up, my masters all! ”
The busy huckster bellows
“ And take your choice and pay your price
And go your way, good fellows. ’
“ By Caesar ! I shall have that wreath,”
A thin voice cries in anguish ;
’Tis yours, and with it clods of mud
And shame in which to languish.”
"Give me fat things,” a glutton grunts,
“And all my stomach wishes.”
‘ k They’re yours, and with them sauce-of-pain
To mingle with your dishes.
“ Speak up ! Speak up ! ” the Huckster cries,
“ For lack of trade is deadly.
I’ve wares to sell that ye must buy—
A mad and motley medley.”
“ I’m after Wit, O Huckster brave,
Great wit to stir great laughter.”
“ ’Tis yours—a sword to wound your friend
And pierce your bosom after.”
“By Mammon, give me gold—red gold ! ”
Another urges sighing:
“I give it stained with tears and blood,
And foul with shame and lying.”
\V~e needs must go to the Market Place,
Though fair or foul the weather ;
For the wish is ours, and the gods decree
That all shall journey thither.
And there day long, night long, time long,
The loud-lunged Huckster bellows :
“ Now take your choice and pay your price,
And go your way, good fellows.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Maira, the Unmoral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MAIRA was the most unmoral girl in
the Bays district. The Rev. Joseph
Briggs said so. In fact, he said it so
often that quite a number of “ the heathen ” be-
lieved the assertion to be part of the ritual of Mr.
Briggs’s creed. The enunciation of this preten-
tious claim always had an expansive effect on the
Rev. Joseph. His watery eyes lighted up
exultantly, and his straggly side whiskers ceased
from being mere degraded appendages, and be-
came symbols of the militant spirit which gripped
his soul. Even his girth-galled travesty of a horse
—when it happened to be present—took on an
ephemeral self-respect, forgetting temporarily the
indignity of its office and the deplorable contour
of its forelegs.
Maira had not always had this distinction. At
one time she was a very dirty and very happy
small girl, playing her part joyously in the life of
the kainga at Opae Bay. But the Rev. Joseph
Briggs, who favored the bay with his presence,
was shocked at the sight of so much pagan glad-
ness. So Maira was carried away, much to the
disgust of her small, rebellious person, to the
whitewashed mission school at Orcti. There she
grew beautiful of body and bright in mind. When
the time came for her to leave school, the Briggs
household was in need of a drudge. Maira filled
the vacancy and became an example of the bene-
ficial effect of adherence to the Creed. It was a
brief exemplification. Maira’s stipend was not
commensurate with her desire for personal adorn-
ment, and certain of Mr. Briggs’s household goods
—they might have been his gods judging by the
rage he displayed—went “ up the spout,” Joseph
undertook the long journey to Gisborne to im-
press Justice with the enormity of the crime.
The attribute he termed his “soul” was appeased
when Justice handed out three months’ imprison-
ment. Maira’s downfall provided the text for a
perennial sermon on the retribution which awaits
the unrighteous. It was a congenial theme, and
Joseph worked it hard for two years.
Then Maira returned, and retribution became a
bkck number. For she was more beautiful than
ever, and amongst her belongings, which filled the
Beautiful Belle surfboat, were several boxes of
gorgeous dresses and a savings-bank book. There
was also a baby. Joseph had no originality about
him. He was deeply shocked. He mounted his
dilapidated steed, and under the broiling sun
ambled off to the kainga. There he found Kuropo,
the alleged hereditary chief, and most of his
people wedged in the whare formerly inhabited
by Maira’s parents, and engaged in the examina-
tion of lingerie and silken hose. In a voice like a
bankrupt steam whistle the parson ordered
Kuropo to turn Delilah out. The Maori loves an
argument. When Ra—the sun—slipped into the
safe keeping of Maui, and the taniwha Night
cast his shadow over the land of Maui’s people,
” Kuropo was just getting into his stride. There
Was a large audience, but no opposition.
Maira had come back to her people, and, to
their surprise, she became one of them. The
gorgeous dresses were stowed away, and their
place taken by an old print gown. With her
kinsfolk she toiled, digging the communal potato
patch, assisting the women in their scanty house-
hold duties, or helping the men fix the weir which
an unwise pakeha Government said must never
be placed across the creek. The years of her
absence had changed Maira. She was very sub-
dued, and treated with dignified contempt the
language which the Rev. Briggs promulgated
through the district. For she had loved and lost,
and the experience had chastened and refined her!
What Ferdinand Cohenloupand his co-directors
of the Wildcat Gold Mining 00. hoped to gam by
sending two engineers to report on the nil •
wealth of the Bays district has nothing to do
with the story. That Hammersley was one ot
the pair tends to vindicate the belief, he
some quarters, that some cunningly- evi*
scheme for extracting the auriferous metal irom
the pockets of the mundane-minded was being
evolved. For Hammersley was hard bitten witn
old knowledge. The second man was Brunt. i
was Brunt’s first experience of life apart from the
academic existence along which he had stumbled
in the city. Two doctors, eminent in their line,
had conspired to fling him from his lectureship at
the School of Mines. Their ultimatum was :
“ An outdoor life, or death within 12 months.
Brunt, who loved his work, protested. He was
still protesting when Hammersley came with the
offer of Ferdinand Colienloup and the other
directors of the Wildcat Co. ,
It was a master-stroke of Hammersley s.
Brunt’s name stood for integrity and ability. Only
those who knew him, and Hammersley was one,
realised his unworldliness. The Board of Governors
graciously granted T. Brunt, Esq., B.Sc., six
months’ leave of absence, and Brunt, round-shoul-
dered and be-spectacled, faded into the primeval
bush.
Hammersley and Brunt, with pack-horses, camp
equipage and a Maori cook, toiled over the rubbly,
bushclad hills at the back of Opae Bay, investi-
gating the locations which Ihaka, the company’s
prospector, had kindly marked out for them. A
day ahead, Ihaka (Isaac —the Hebrew half-caste)
was putting in a strenuous time with a big load of
mineral specimens. From the first day, a change
came over Brunt. Whatever the bush did for his
body it certainly revived his soul. At night,
whilst Hammersley struggled with the wording of
his disingenuous report, Brunt lay outside the
tent on a camp-stretcher listening to the sounds of
the bush. For the first time, his imagination
had a fair innings, and it threatened to drown him
in a sea of turbulent emotions.
One day, when the kainga at Opae Bay drowsed
in the afternoon sun, Ihaka appeared with his
now unladed pack-horses, and predicted the
arrival of two pakelia rangitiras. He also pro-
claimed the discovery of gold in the Opae hills
and prophesied a good time for the Maori people
when the pakeha influx should set in. Kuropo
agreed that the pakeha who could discover the
yellow metal in that section of the country was
“ a dam smart pfeller,” and worthy of the whole-
hearted hospitality of the Opae Bay natives. Late
in the afternoon the Hammersley outfit wended
its way down the bridle track which led to the
beach, and was welcomed by a circus of haka
dancers, poi maidens and more or less hairless
dogs. Hammersley, to whom the show was no
novelty, early evaded the attentions of the buxom
maidens and" the circulating waipiro bottle, and
retired to the whare which had been set apart for
him. Brunt didn’t. The bush had given him a
soul—or perhaps it was merely a great thirst.
It was his first jag—the one picturesque event
in a hitherto drab existence—and he seemed to in-
tend making a Marathon of it. He was drunk
when Hammersley appeared next day, and he
announced that he would, in all likelihood, re-
main in that beatific state whilst the waipirb
lasted. Kuropo loudly applauded these remarks.
Hammersley, who, when at home and not de-
frauding his neighbors with wild cats, was a
Brother of Temperance and a Little Bethel ex-
horter of great tonnage, exhibited signs of disgust
at this rampant profligacy. He went back to the
whare.and remained there till, in the afternoon,
the Beautiful Belle came shambling up the bay
and dropped anchor a mile off the beach. The
Belle landed two bags of flour and six bottles of
square gin, and took on board Hammersley and
his report. Then it departed for Gisborne with
the news that Professor Brunt was embracing the
Simple Life with fervor.
Next day Brunt was ill, and Kuropo, in terror
lest the great one should die, sent for Maira.
During the celebrations Maira had kept aloof.
Brunt wassober now and very penitent, and Maira
was beautiful and sympathetic. It was inevitable
that Brunt should fall in love. The fall took 10
years off his age, and gave him the clear skin and
the bright eyes which the patent pill vendor guar-
antees to provide for Is. 6d. the small box, or 2s.
the large size. For a week Maira withstood
Brunt’s importunity; but she was tired of the
kainga, and not a little flattered by his admira-
tibn. Besides, Brunt, in his love drunkenness,
offered to adopt little Mere.
A few days later Brunt sent to Owaaka for Tame
Kotuku, the Maori minister, and when that
leisured individual arrived Maira became Mrs.
Brunt. The wedding feast, under Kuropo’s able
guidance, broke all local records. “ The Voice that
Breathed ” was contributed by the Rev. Joseph
Briggs in the background. On this occasion it
did not breathe a benediction.
* ¥ * *
That stupendous Maoriland product, Colyton,
came home from the art schools of Paris more
blatant, but no more an artist than when he went
there. The dailies devoted half-columns to his
opinions, which were large, and his intentions,
which were ambitious. The weeklies published
his photograph, which was hardly fair to Colyton.
Then Fate took him by the hand and led him to
the bungalow residence of Rev. Joseph Briggs,
at Opae Bay. It was Colyton’s intention to im-
mortalise his name by painting pictures of the
Maori people. A friend told him the Maori
abounded in the vicinity of Opae Bay, and could
be found there in the idyllic state necessary to
artistic portrayal. The friend’s friend gave him
a letter of introduction to Rev. Joseph Briggs.
On the first day Colyton visited the kainga. The
lack of sanitation filled him with disgust, and the
lack of anything worth painting he took as a per-
sonal affront. Kuropo’s offer to put on a realistic
haka for the sum of sixpence was scornfully
turned down. Colyton swung out of the kainga
cursing Art and the Maori people.
Then at the gate of a new house which hid its
ugliness behind a growth of nikau palms, he came
face to face with Maira. Colyton was neither an
artist nor a gentleman. What should have been
an intensely dramatic moment he spoilt by his
excessive profanity. Maira did not scream or
faint, but her color changed to the murky white
of the badly-scared native. For she had loved
and lost, and now, unless Colyton could be
silenced, she was likely to lose again. She acted
quickly, but not so quickly that Colyton did not
realise her intention before the paling split his
skull.
There is a prejudice in Maoriland against gaol-
ing handsome women for big offences—a remnant,
possibly, of the long-deoeased age of chivalry.
But there was no chivalry about the Rev. Joseph
Briggs, the one reputable resident of Opae Bay.
In the name of law and order he sent for the
police, who arrived in time to prevent the peace-
ful burial of Colyton, which was why Maira
received three years for manslaughter, and two
more for bigamy. That was also why Brunt be-
came a pakeha Maori and a derelict in the kaingas
of his country.
W. R. SINCLAIR.


A MAN IS AS STRONG AS HIS BACK
A Man can only do as much Work as his back will stand.
Once the back gives out he must lay down his tools.
limbs, sick headache, ilto'h, kld “? ys ; other unmistakable signs, are dizziness, stiffness of the
become heavy and,unken wifhswelwA^ fore ’°“f the S™ ws nervous, short tempered, and depressed; the eyes
—• **«•»w -
whieh causes kidney troubles is driven from the body quickly and
thoroughly by the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This^great
medicine will strengthen your back by relieving and toning up the kidneys.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
ELIZABETH STREET.
Mr. John Moroney, Ham and Beef Shop, 228
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, says:—“About 18
months ago I began to suffer with backache, and
got a feeling in the small of my back as if I had
a growth there, or as if some foreign substance
had lodged there ; it did not show outwardly, but
troubled me more than you would suppose. I
could not lie in bed with comfort. I saw in the
paper that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills had
cured a man I know, and one day I asked him
for the full particulars of his case. He told me
he had been very bad, and this remedy cured him
and strongly advised me to try it. I did use
them, and have not much to say beyond that
they cured me also. The backache and the un-
pleasant sensation have quite gone. I strongly
recommend the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills to all who suffer with backache.”
Eight years later, Mr. Moroney says:—
“Thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I arm
still well, and free from backache. This remedy
cured me eight years ago.”
PADDINGTON .
Mr. George Saunders, 82 Boundary Street, Pad-
dington, Sydney, who is a prominent Union
worker, writes Just 12 months ago I had a
severe attack o influenza, and afterwards I was
aoubled up with terrible pains in the small of my
back. I tried remedies for kidney complaint, a
prescription from a well-known city doctor, reme-
dies recommended by friends, and various patent
medicines; but my back ached on in spite of
treatment. A fellow employee who had used
.Doans Backache Kidney Pills with success, pur-
chased a box (I did not have the money with me
at the time). He gave them to me, saying, ‘ Try
these pills; I believe in them. If they cure you
pay me later on ; if they don’t, I’ll bear the cost.’’
I am delighted to tell you that they did cure me.
1 have no backache now. My quick cure has
made me a firm believer in them.”
Mr. feaunders says, three years later •-—‘‘ My
cure has proved a permanent one. It is now
three years since Doan’s Pills stopped my back
from aching, and generally toned up and
strengthened my kidneys.”
4
x
KU
"Every
picture
tells a
story.”
m- DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
gh ĥg
At all Chemists anti
S t orekeepers, 2/9
per bottle ?'or from
Foster - McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
The King’s Scout.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PIET DORST was not an alluring
spectacle when he loomed up on the north
side of the windmill at Ram Drift, and
tie tned soldiers, who were chiefly employed in
orrowing army biscuits from one another, were
not particularly interested in him.
People like Piet had become common circum-
mn^f' A ! ? g ener .al thing, such breaks in the
° ny °f *l'? routine of trek, fight, camp and
ofhi * X > Pla,n , ed enough, under pressure
t L S ults and eoffee dug from many haversacks,
their desertion from commando. There would be
s.Jnr Se ' irth °f spare socks for coffee and
greasy pockets for tobacco, and of worn
saddle wallets for commandeered “biltong.”
trouser's!^ 6 i° n Aprd ’ but Piet’s moleskin
S rtfr 6 ! 110 S,gn of having been removed
ripped to the I 0 trous l er le g had been violently
unnatural]! k ’ nee - P?. rha P« h y barb-wire. An
Piet’s \f„l brown limb was thus revealed.
pendicnl'Lrl^ er n ? G ’ , bu “ dovvn > was slung per-
A lencriK y # US kack by a raw-hide string.
the mSI. t u° n . l Stlck had been poked down
fl 1 Z and th ere fluttered dully from it a
flag of truce. ° bviously a cleaning-rag, but still a
sefmed'XlT 7 th, ' n and hairy and tired, and he
T gh to f ,ake h>s rifle clear, and
thefr frlf « h ®, n t , W 0 fining soldiers jumped to
dobers aid » d . r ? '? Ve . dh r ,^ 0f two shoulder ban-
°adof MaUSer “ C ' ipS ” buckled
Theeol Wa ? i n ° V nger an ene,ny of ‘he King.
only tent ?n e Uyf t St asleep on t,le floor of the
3'M camp i h.s tousled head resting on a
Prisoner Tt fc u ™ h T tho party with the latest
m iior kieked ted at fc 18 door ilnd ‘he sergeant-
earth wS a , can ? p - ke “ l e to call the commander
t vel vre ?i w soW.er opened his eyes, instinc
thiolh l ° r \ Ca r blne - and said, “Hello?”
thiough the sleep thickness in his throat.
P.Wwif P k' ty left Piet alone with the colonel.
for l e Ud a t S “? eqU< i n f ly more or less unwelcome,
deered P ??a,n°!t d l hiS tale ‘ Tr He had been com man-
m lB /' 1 - Veld-ko,met Van Renan
methods mit ? ,S d ' SC J pl,ne was ‘he sjambok, his
prisoners 4 b pk nd h res ‘ ,ck . his battle cry “No
English if 'i hhen, too, Piet’s vrouw was an
f fnkander - She was, perhaps, still at
have ?whft« m K !? U t e ar Spilsp ruit. She would
She wis m ed-sheet floating from the chimney.
tinTpT frightened of fighting Dutch farmers
had tre£ R J ,Sh S ? dier f-, Van Renan’s commando
uad trekked and trekked and trekked. The
mules were never outspanned, the “rooineks”
° n tbe heels-of the commando, and
‘lie waggons were generally empty.
Atto to ti,e Kin *-“ d
hab h °denr°i f v'd hi f k i erS ’ r ° bbed ° f his maSS °f top
troi,sers P p! ° f hIS re asy slouch hat and awful
trousers, 1 let seemed a more desirable person
than formerly Nobody minded Piet in a khaki
f sco?fs e T th ° Ugh h. e h ;| d been made a corporal
thoso dI™ beCa , USe n ° bo , dy minded anything in
not too far aS f! ng as ‘he supply waggons were
fa r. ln ‘he rear and an occasional sleep
many l ? l lble \ If Ple Ji turned traitor, there were
hews
It was Piet who told the colonel about the big
laager at Dronveld, and he who led the scouts
through an obscuring locust storm and a veldt-
fire smoke-haze towards it. Piet’s new brand of
loyalty seemed genuine enough, for he was the
first man to dismount at the wire fences and the
quickest with the wire-cutters. Once when there
was a short series of double-voiced “pip-pops”
from a flank, and little spirts of dust grew round
the horses feet, Piet cursed all Dutchmen with
vigor, unslung his carbine and carried it across
his wallets.
He was true to his King. As far as he was con-
cerned, the President was dead.
Piet s grey pony pushed through the thorn
bushes, and, following Piet’s lead, all the scouts,
like him, hunched their knees high over their
horses withers. African thorn is bad for riders’
legs.
, -^ ia heat-haze danced across the arid veldt, and
the unknowing believed that the country was
dead fiat to the kopjes, rising stark and straight
out of the plain. The unknowing would say that
the kopjes were a few hundred yards away ; the
veldt, map that they were “three hours on horse-
back. But the deception of the veldt was
shown frequently enough by the sudden appear-
ance from nowhere of a springbok or a veldt-hare.
1 let moved in to his nearest mate, and confided
that Dronveld was close at hand. His companions
did not contradict, for a veldt man of even a
year s training would not be surprised if a “ sky-
scraper ’ rose suddenly out of the dun earth.
Pmt pushed on, and the scouts pushed after
j. H ronve ld grew before the vision like a
neld of mushrooms. The long bright streak of
railroad crawled a mile or two east and west, and
then seemed to lose itself in the drab earth. The
red waggon road lay like a narrow sash across a
dark blanket. Beyond were long, low piles of
led earth, and in their rear the tents of a big
laager.
I urning in their saddles the scouts could see the
dust of their main body. One trooper mentioned
that he heard the guns of the battery rumbling.
Jrerhaps he noticed that the dust on the right
flank was thicker, and imagined the rumble.
1 ifct had located Dronveld, and his task was
done, oergeant Burt might move up with his
section of four and draw the fire if the laager were
peopled.
It was immediately obvious that the laager was
peopled, and it was quaint that several smoke
feathers rose from the red heaps behind which the
tents were half hidden, for Mauser cartridges do
not grow smoke feathers. Curious, too, that
ifurts death wound was so ghastly. No pin-
piickuig, nickel-plated bullet could make such a
mess of a man’s neck as this bullet had done.
It would not have helped Burt to carry his
corpse back to the main body. Besides, a troop-
horse gallops but slowly with a double load.
Ihe main body was moving forward in earnest
now, and the then of the cavalry screen had their
eyes glued on Piet and the others as they galloped
hot-foot to tell about the place where the smoke
feather rose and the Martini rifle was.
Suddenly the screen clove in the centre like a
wave cut by a boat-bow, and with a jangle and a
rattle two six-liorse guns leaped out. It seems
that almost before “Action front” was yelled
the cold noses were smelling for the tents. Then
there was the “ booin-ziz-z-z-z-plunk ! ” and a
long spiral of earth rose, where once was a
tent. I hen there were other artillery noises and
more spirals, and the laughs of the gunners as the
shots told.
The gunners pleaded hard for a shot at the dark
quickly-moving mass of carts and horsemen, drift-
ing like a summer cloud shadow across the veldt
in a frantic, disorganised trek for the distant
kopjes. But the young officer had his orders.
Sufficient that the laager was empty and its people
trekking. Then the scouts with Piet, near by,
spurred quickly forward. They had discovered
the laager. Why should they not pluck the
first fruits of victory? Perhaps there would be
meat and tobacco, coffee, sugar and flour among
the ruins !
Piet was within 200 yards of the red mounds,
and there was nothing to fear now, so he rode
fast. He was the King’s servant and rode on the
King’s business.
Butagain from the red heaps rose a feathery puff.
The farmers were surely still holding the laager.
Piet’s horse was down, its grey chest dyed crimson
and its life pulsing on to the veldt. Piet was not
quite sure whether he was himself hit, and so he
lay quietly in the rear of his dead mount.
The battery had heard that shot, and was glad
to have seen the smoke feather, for now it knew
exactly where to drop its shrapnel shell. The
shell screamed and, dropping on the red mound,
vomited its load of bullets. There was no further
smoke-feather from there.
So the scouts dismounted, and their “number
threes ” took the horses back to the main body.
Piet crawled with the others to the heap on
which the shrapnel had burst, and scrambled to
the summit of the flattened.bank. It was a gory
bank, and the boy who lay there sprawled on top
of the rusty Martini had been struck with a shrap-
nel fragment. His fair curls were stained crim-
son. _ A little heap of empty cartridge shells lay*
to his left, and there were broken packets of
loaded cartridges on his right. It was obvious
from the slight shoulders of the dead boy that he
was very young.
Piet commented : “The kerel was too brave
already.”
Said a trooper: “He was an all-right bit of
stuff.”
The scouts searched the laager, and found some
dead people, as well as flour and meat, maize and
“dop,” which were of far more imnortance than
human clay.
With bundles on their backs, the men came
from the tents and met the main body. Piet led
the way towards the red trenches, and when he
came to the dead boy he snatched his hat from his
head and halted solemnly. Then he dived into
his sack and produced a bottle of “dop.”
“ What is it you say when you drink in your
country?” he asked.
■ “Kia Ora !” explained a Maoriland trooper.
Piet reverentially said “Kia Ora !” and sucked
the mouth of the bottle.
The scouts stood by the trench until the arrival
of the main body.
The colonel himself rodeoutand pushed towards
the mound, seeing the fair head, the big rifle and
the cartridges.
“Poor little chap! He was only a bit of a
boy,” and the colonel chewed his moustache.
“Turn him over--that man!” (indicating Piet)
said the colonel, softly.
Piet pulled the crumpled left arm straight. It
is so common for a man to crumple when he is
suddenly stricken dead.
Piet was a very pale Dutchman when he saw
that there was a wedding ring on the third finger
and noticed that the hand was tiny.
Then, because Piet was a servant of the King,
he rolled the little body over.
Most of the soldiers held that Piet lost his
senses, and that this was the reason why, as one
m a dream, he picked up the Martini rifle, grabbed
a packet of cartridges, broke through the little
group round the boy, and started at a broken run
tor the battery.
And nearly everybody was surprised that Piet
could load and shoot and kill three gunners and a
driver before anybody knew enough to riddle him
with much more up-to-date ammunition than Piet
was using.
It was Clevely who took the little gold locket
from the neck of the defender of Dronveld. Big
and ugly as he was and still is, he wept dismally
when he read the inscriptionTo dear Helen,
from her loving husband, Piet Dorst, Christmas
1900.”
CLAUDE L. JEWELL.
Bouche Baisee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Bouche bais6e ne perd pas sa fraichpur.”
—French proverb.
SWEET maiden, like the Startled Fawn,
You do not need to run ;
I shall not chase you o’er the lawn,
As once I would have done.
I would have leapt with heart elate,
Pursued with panting glee ;
But now my sluggard feet-will wait
And let you come to me.
With wind-blown hair and glowing face
And many a shaken sigh
She rushes past; but in that race
Who will lose breath ? Not I.
In easier triumphs I’ll forget
Her startled mouth of red,
Quick breast and gusty hair . . . and yet
With what sweet limbs she fled !
Nay, let her fly. Ripe lips are near
As vvarm and fresh as those
That tremble through their maiden fear
With hopes they half disclose.
The bud will blossom in a day—
I care not how nor when ;
But lips will not be kissed away
By many mouths of men.
Youth seeks the highest trees to climb,
And on the topmost bough
Plucks sweetness from a twig sublime ;
I cease those follies now.
Green apples stubborn eating be,
And apple trees are tall,
So let me lie beneath the tree
Until the ripe ones fall.
Ay, let her run. Though kissed so oft.
The lips to which I turn
Will not for this be found less soft,
With less of rapture burn.
With store of honey sweet to taste
They fill, and none may chide.
But—who has clasped that breathless waist
And closed that mouth that cried ?
VICTORIA.
p.


DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing-
Medical
Testimony
With each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
hghg
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup. Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Music, as you like it.,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
h
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home—one
would charm Yours —Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37 6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop- Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne
Bendigo and Geelong
An Imperative Need.
Until you gze free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms —torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishness, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
s lily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
reciuit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
sn id
yn
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘ FBtriT SALT ’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness,
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked- ENOS ' FRUIT SA LT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery —IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENQ Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A
RIFLES
The World's best.
The B.S.A. WAR OFFICE MINIATURE RIFLE
may be correctly described as ** A REAL SERVICE RIFLE IN
MINIATURE 99 and is altogether an ideal Weapon for scientific
and accurate rifle practice up to 200 yards.
THE W.O.M. RIFLE is a full sized weapon of .22 calibre with
improved bolt action of the Lee Enfield type, military match si hts
adjustable to 200 yards and is turned out in the B.S A. Co’s best
finish. It can be supplied with magazine if required and the B.S.A. No. 8
Aperture Sight can also be tilted at a small extr«. Fully illustrated and
described in the B.S.A. Rifle Catalog, which can be obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing the B.S.A. Co. Ltd.!,
5 STOCK EXCHANGE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
i.mimiiiiiH
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difflcnlty in expectoration. Asthma,NemmsCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
' ' & Co's INDIAN ClGAK-
relieved by GRIMAULT
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists,
The’Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1556.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist tor its hi story—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
You Know What To Expect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news: and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments ! There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every ease of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected.
When You Use
Beeeham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you —or if you cannot sleep or you
are bilious and headachy—to know that all you require is a course of
Bccctatn’s Pills.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels, Liver, and Kidneys.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/H (56 pills) 8f 2/9 (168 pills).
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
gh
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of lime
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J& 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
G
I
ym
Mm
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, eng-itie-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial .. .. £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. ..8 5 0 510 0
Single-Barrel, Haninn rless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial .. .. .. 310 0 117 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pis'ol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial.. .. :. .. 510 0 417 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib-, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Triitl - .. .. 10 0 0 710 O
Mauser Principle Rifles,' 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
vSmail Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers
139 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
gh
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
m
Each Capsule bears the name
S3ST
Big &
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Tbs Evans Chemical Co.
Ciadanati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
§§
S 3
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
L l/- EACH POST FREE 1/2
I Quality Not Better
in a '■
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'storekeepers* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST\
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, (issues, and internal organs,
tvaste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is presen t or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. , From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Go., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgcrreePoi
Suture's Gift.
»***;
ftAV?
HWH
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is —we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
outdelay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
; Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S;W*
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Perdriau Motor Dust Coats.
PERDRIAU DUST COATS are made
expressly for Motor Driving. High-
elaes light-weight materials are used
in their construction, and they are
smartly cut and well made.
One of our most popular lines is the
Bathurst, which is a single-breasted Coat,
in drab cotton twill, with full military back,
in and out pockets, deep Prussian collar and
sleeve straps. A very stylish garment.
Price 13/6.
Other Dust Coats are detailed in our
Price List, a copy of which we will be
pleased to send you free on receipt of your
request. Write for one.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Bubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
Electric Generating: Sets, Steam, Oil
and Petrol; and Storage Batteries,
with all necessary fitting's,
Lamps, etc., for complete installations.
Write for particulars to
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced ■with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2£in. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B ’’ to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581=583 Little Collins SL, Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten. sd.
The
Seasons
Change
jMfolfe*sschnapp
1 Just What the Doctor ordered ——
All
Seasons
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE:
ENGINE.
DIREOT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
F*>
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
SENTINEL
J WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd ,
AIR COMPRESSORS
Highest Economy
and Efficiency,
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter S Gil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings, Mel-
bourne; and 228-50 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
—— AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King's Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIAi
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
TEL.
(3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
' “ ■* / •”
J 1 * *"■ ,r%, J
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
162 Clarence St.
wrn
im
f/f'i
aWSw-iW*
mB
-< bif
Eft
k
SINGLE AND DUPLEX.
For Boiler Feeding, Tank Pumps,
Mine Sinking, Cyanide Works,
All sizes in stock and every Pump guaranteed
Estimates furnished. Prices and Catalogues 01
application to Sole Agents for Australasia—
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
m
&SP
c,$V
S»f
C,^
w>
tip
\s
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney; 525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
sc»*
.4
&
m
&
$V\
